US	51761391	R15SWT1AFNK3V5	157075554X	217692627	The Wormwood File: E-mail From Hell	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	Two Roads Diverged	In what has now become a veritable genre- private letters of demons based on [[ASIN:0060652896 Screwtape Letters]]- The Wormwood File excels.  It is readable, engaging, and exquisitly written.  There are other books in this genre that are silly, or far too polemic.  Ones that I have to read thinking, \\"Well, I agree with this point, but I not with that.\\"- and it ceases to be an exercise in meditation.  Not so with this book.  There was a lot of food for thought.  There were a number of times when I had to put the book down and pray, and examine my own life, and repent.  This is a deeply practical book, the epitome of idealism.<br /><br />While the author clearly comes from a particular church perspective- high, sacramental, possibly Catholic- he doesn't pound it in, and in fact strongly preaches the need for ecumenalism within the body of Christ.  He brings in new insights I didn't know, like the meaning of the words symbol, and diabolic.  The only problem I found was that the book ended a little too quickly, suddenly, and I didn't really feel like I'd heard the end of the story in this case.<br /><br />Even when Forest comes down strongly on an issue- like the Enemy's (God's) dislike of war, and how it corrupts all that are involved in it- he also comes down on the other side, speaking of pacifists who become so filled with hate at anyone who waves a flag or wears a uniform.  That caused me to think for a bit.  Forest doesn't have his demons play favorites.  The road to hell is many-forked.	2005-07-20
US	51761391	R7DYPD6TMCIIH	0763711187	371802617	Defending Evolution:  A Guide To The Evolution/Creation Controversy	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	The Light of Truth	This was an incredibly helpful book.  In a very readable, detailed, and organized manner, the Alters explain in detail how the literal creationists think- and all the different ways they think, for it is certainly not a monolithic group.  As someone who was once a literal creationist before God revealed to me the Light of evolution, I found the Alters' treatment of this group to be fair and balanced, showing a great deal of understanding, with only minor errors.<br /><br />As a high-school Biology teacher, I have often run into many of the beliefs and arguments that the Alters describe, hearing these ideas from students, parents, and administrators.  It was helpful to get more background on their thinking, and this book clearly reveals the lack of integrity present in the organizations and some who follow them, as they try to twist the words of others in their \\"search for truth\\".  It is frustrating to try to explain to students what science has learned, knowing there is very little probability that the student will change their mind, but if they do, the parents and administration would likely be very displeased.<br /><br />But the Alters provide very helpful ammunition in this \\"war\\" (declared so by literal creationists).  I am looking forward to applying some of their responses and teaching techniques to more greatly persuade my students, and have indeed already incorporated some ideas into future lesson plans.  Of particular help is information notating the predominance of scientists believing evolution to be true, as well as the vast majority of Christian theologians; detailed outlining of the thought processi of literal creationists and their basic errors in logic; the differences in epistemological systems, particularly between theology and science; and detailed teaching techniques presented in the back to help students understand how evolution works.<br /><br />For our great hurdle is that evolution, while the backbone of all biology, is so complex that it is difficult for students to fully understand it, especially when we have only 3-4 weeks out of a year to spend on the topic.  While it is incorporated throughout the teaching year, we can't spend more than a few weeks on the subject in detail, for there are many other subjects in biology to be dealt with as well.  And that few weeks is usually not enough time for a student to understand what evolution actually says.  In the meantime, literal creationists spend most of their time arguing against the strawmen and strawapes they have created, advocating that scientists say that which they do not, in order to show evolutionists false.  Would that we could take such a complex theory and explain it well enough to our students in the short time we have available, so that at least the students would no longer argue against that which we don't believe!  I don't know if this is possible, but this book helps get us a  lot closer.that it is difficult for students to fully understand it, especially when we have only 3-4 weeks out of a year to spend on the topic.  While it is incorporated throughout the teaching year, we can't spend more than a few weeks on the subject in detail, for there are many other subjects in biology to be dealt with as well.  And that few weeks is usually not enough time for a student to understand what evolution actually says.  In the meantime, literal creationists spend most of their time arguing against the strawmen and strawapes they have created, advocating that scientists say that which they do not, in order to show evolutionists false.  Would that we could take such a complex theory and explain it well enough to our students in the short time we have available, so that at least the students would no longer argue against that which we don't believe!  I don't know if this is possible, but this book helps get us a  lot closer.	2005-07-20
US	51761391	R3K7KB5OONZ7RU	0151002592	283575221	The Iron Bridge	Books	2	3	5	N	Y	A Bridge of Straw	It was a great idea.  A woman living in a future devoid of hope, full of environmental degradation, the offspring of humanity: she turns to the past, to find hope there, going to live with a Quaker family in 18th century England, at a place her group in the future has identified as a turning point in time.  If they can stop the bridge from being built, the Industrial Revolution will have a far kinder, gentler path.  Through the medium of flashbacks we learn of the evil of that future world and how they came to turn to this idea for hope.  A great idea, for which I give it two stars.<br /><br />It's the enfleshment of the idea that disappoints.  Frankly, very little happens.  You expect some major results from this idea.  It's okay that the author kind of brushes over the mechanism for time travel, making it slightly new-agey- as long as he really pursues the philosophical and scientific ramifications of his ideas.  But he doesn't.  We don't get really the full breadth of possiblities.  What do we get instead?  A lot of graphically desscribed aberrant sexual scenes- both homosexual and heterosexual.  And the author would have us believe this was normative for the time.  To be clear- these scenes in no way help to advance the plot.  Even the refence to the actions would not only not help advance the plot, but positively detract from it.  I'm sitting there racking my brain to try to figure out what the relevance of the scenes were- other than to titillate and sell more books.<br /><br />These faults could perhaps be forgiven if the author takes the opportunity to show us the benefits of a group seldom described and little understood.  But he takes the stereotypes of Quakers and uses them to represent the worst in humanity.  I get the impression that he knew very little of actual Quakers, but did do some sound research on us, and so for instance knows about the Quiestist Period.  He uses the pacifism and consensus decision making styles of Quakers and portrays these as positive.  But in the same breath he discounts their Christianity.  These are Quakers without Christ.  They are all hypocrisy, and no love of Jesus.  While there are Quakers who are not Christian today, such were few and far between at the time the author describes.  What we see described in the family is definitely not attractive, but represeantive of the worst of Quakerism and Christians.  That's the easy way out- the way almost every author takes, especially science-fiction authors.  Morse can do better.<br /><br />Worst of all is the ending.  Which of course I'm not going to tell you.  Let me just say you'll be totally disappointed- and if that's what you're looking for in a book, this is the one to read.as positive.  But in the same breath he discounts their Christianity.  These are Quakers without Christ.  They are all hypocrisy, and no love of Jesus.  While there are Quakers who are not Christian today, such were few and far between at the time the author describes.  What we see described in the family is definitely not attractive, but represeantive of the worst of Quakerism and Christians.  That's the easy way out- the way almost every author takes, especially science-fiction authors.  Morse can do better. <br /> <br />Worst of all is the ending.  Which of course I'm not going to tell you.  Let me just say you'll be totally disappointed- and if that's what you're looking for in a book, this is the one to read.	2005-06-30
US	51761391	R35WTFZ1S631Q7	0691122946	25166027	On Bullshit	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	The Treatment is certainly not the Referent Object	This is a creative and in-depth analysis of a pervasive part of our culture.  The author can be a bit wordy and confusing at times, but he comprehensively treats the subject of BS.  I wouldn't agree with him entirely in his separation of BS from lying, but I appreciate his nuancing what BS is, and at least agree with his saying that BS is a very distinctive type of deception.  As a good etymological philosopher, most of Dr. Frankfurt's work dwells only on definition, but it is through the definition that we learn to understand the subject studied.  And like the best of the philosophical tradition, he also calls us to be something greater through the understanding of one part of ourselves- namely that which is BS.<br /><br />The book is very short, considering the price, but worth it's weight in gold as a Coffeetable Book.  Just imagine it for a moment, and you'll understand.	2005-06-30
US	51761391	R1A56M5W2VQNWK	0976118106	681760545	Railroaded!	Books	1	10	16	N	N	This may be the worst book I've ever read.	It was incredibly bad.  Actually, I could tell from the first couple pages.  Usually books this bad I don't finish, and therefore don't review.  The most interesting part of the book is that a person with my name dies in the first two pages.<br /><br />It's about an African-American sports star who gets accused of raping the white daughter of the owner of his football team.  In the midst of the story the book engages in a bit of sexist stereotyping of women.<br /><br />Grant uses cliches almost non-stop.  It's actually painful to read.  It was completely predictable, and very boring.  The whole book has no description.  In fact, the first few pages are very quick summaries of three boys' lives, in which nothing bad ever happens, but once.  After that, the book just goes downhill, with weak dialouge, zero character development, no hope of redemption, and black and white flat characterization. And the author does this strange thing where he includes a large number of explicit references to products, like Nike Trainers, putting in a copyright symbol each time- as if product placement was how he was planning to get the money from his book.<br /><br />Why did I read it?  I was on a bus traveling for 44 hours from Casablanca and Mauritania and back again- and I finished all the other books I had with me.  I kept on picking this up, reading for a few pages, and then putting it down to look for someone to talk to in a language I don't speak well.  A few pages at a time was all I could read without getting a roaring headache.  I'm not exaggerating.<br /><br />And I'm still kind of wondering about why the author sent this book to me asking me to review it, since the guy with my name got killed in the first two pages...	2005-06-18
US	51761391	R28K7KK6VU17TV	0671795732	778039193	The Gripping Hand	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	On Becoming and Seeing the Value of the Other	This was a very engrossing and enjoyable read, with excellent character development and numerous plot twists.  The plot twists are also what bring it down a star- some plot points (particularly battle scenes) were not well explained and hard to follow.<br /><br />Niven writes with realism for the future, and presents a recognizable yet new universe.  Rare among Science Fiction authors, he sees religion in the future, and rarer still, real religions.  This is refreshing.  So Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Mormonism- all continue on, and have great influence on respective planets.  It is especially agreeable to see such a broad and positive portrayal of Islam in this book.  This is marked contrast to the previous work, where Nabil and Horace, (the two Muslims) are portrayed stereotypically as lecherous, greedy, traitorous, hypocritical, and dangerous.  Here there is far more depth to them.  Horace reveals his reasons for what he did, and we see honor in his motives.  They seek the good of others, while still following Islam.  They are dangerous- but only to dangerous people.  Horace values relationships, power, honor, and hospitality.  We see positive sides to his Arabic Islamic background.<br /><br />I also enjoyed a continued investigation of a thoroughly alien culture.  Niven can write this better than most- how does an alien think?  Someone who has never been in any culture that we have invented.  He gets in the minds of aliens.  And in doing this, he gets in the mind of other cultures.  This is a book that is an exploration of emic anthropology, becoming the other, so as to understand the other.  I have seen few books do a better job of portraying characters who can become, and portraying this ability as something valuable and positive.  Niven and Pournelle are to be congratulated for their timely and searching work.	2005-06-18
US	51761391	R231C6FNRGFQ8E	0385264704	320747623	Sugar Street (The Cairo Trilogy, Vol. 3)	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	The Anti-Dickens	This was the least well-done book of the trilogy.  It took me a long time to formulate into words my disappointment in this work.  Mahfouz had great representation of everything that has happened in the recent history of Egypt, at the time when everything changed, with one family having a communist, a member of the Muslim Brotherhood, *and* a man who advances up the ladder of increasing bureaucracy.  Mahfouz continues to write vividly, with extremely real characters, that you believe, and that you are present with, within their heads.  But the veiled references to homosexuality were unnecessary and distracting from the plot.  And the book was too slice of life.  The ending was far too sudden, incomplete, and unfulfilling.  And in the end, this book, and this trilogy, becomes a writing of depression, sadness, and how lives are destroyed, lacking in hope, lacking in joy, lacking in truth.<br /><br />One man, on patriarch, sets his family down the road of despair through his relentless despotism.  He even warps their brains into thinking that what he does is a good thing, and his hypocrisy a virtue.  This could be a great book in teaching the lesson of how we choose generational sins for our family- but it doesn't seem to actually try to teach this.  This is the result of the work of the patriarch, but there is no foil to present for hope for the family.  The only successful individual is the grandchild engaged in homosexuality who succeeds at bureaucracy.  There is no redemption.  The book becomes the anti-Dickens, a world without possibilities.  And this is the greatest value of the book, perhaps- showing us the Egyptian culture, strangling it's citizens in red tape.<br /><br />[[ASIN:0141439564 Great Expectations (Penguin Classics)]]	2005-06-15
US	51761391	R1A5SR554YT3NY	0385264682	752216879	Palace of Desire: The Cairo Trilogy, Volume 2 (Cairo Trilogy II)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Another Great Mahfouz	Like the [[ASIN:0385264666 first in the trilogy]], this was excellent writing, alternating between telling and describing, but with the most vivid description, and somehow the telling is the most desirous writing as well.  Yes, Kamal's long-winded poetic idealistic love gets...long-winded at times.  But it builds to the a very appropriate conclusion in his life.  It is amazing to watch a family crumble- but not at all unexpected.  You see the seeds of destruction from the first pages of Palace Walk.  Al-Sayyhid Ahmad Abd Al-Jawad desires to have such strong control over his family, he ends up building it's destruction.  He wants to live a double life- and those live half as long.  He sees no hypocrisy in his actions, for he lives the unexamined life.  And he reaps his harvest.  This is the message interwoven throughout both the first two books.<br /><br />I keep on feeling that Naguib Mahfouz is the Dickens of his culture.  Characters are consistent with themselves, yet constantly changing, evolving, to become something greater, or worse, and unexpected, yet somehow we always knew it had to be that way.  He writes with such realism of the lives of people, and the changing lives over generations of the people of the large city.  It is dirty, intimate, and full of pathos.  It is life.	2005-05-13
US	51761391	R3QB4TSEITM2DN	0671741926	818442828	The Mote in God's Eye	Books	4	6	11	N	Y	Lord, forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin...	The mote.  The speck of dust.  The sliver of wood, in my neighbor's eye.  The idea's loaded with a lot of meaning.  Who is my neighbor?  Can I see my own sin before my neighbor's?  Or is it only in perceiving the sin of my neighbor that for the first time I clearly perceive my own transgressions?<br /><br />These are the questions this book deals with.  It is a work of science fiction, but also a work of philosophy.  It is so well written that I fall asleep dreaming of the next chapter, and the coming invasion.  And when I read the next chapter the next day, it is like nothing I would expect.  The secret is given away ¾ of the way through the book- but as you continue to read you discover no secret was given away, but rather only a tantalizing taste of the truth.  There are so many new ideas in this book, ones I have never before encountered, such as what a million years of evolution might do to a species that was able to achieve modern technology repeatedly- I am overwhelmed with Niven and Pournelle's abilities.<br /><br />But I have to reduce it to four stars, primarily because of some strong anti-Semitic portrayals of a Muslim Arab tradesman from the planet Levant.  He is not presented sympathetically, and every stereotype of Arab people is trotted out- a trader, looking for money at any cost, probably traitorous, invoking Allah's name but not really believing in Him, lecherous, with the assistant Nabil who might stab you in the back.  Unworthy of Niven, but thankfully, not the primary focus of the book.<br /><br />This is good science fiction, but also good writing.  Rich character development, where even the flattest characters have their round points, and everyone develops in some direction.  There are moments of great detail, where we see the lives of the principles, without being told what is happening.  This is what separates the mediocre from the magnificent.  The Moties are a truly foreign culture, which we can see emically and etically, from the inside and the outside.<br /><br />It's only after completing the book that I fully realize, with a sickening sensation, that there is so little difference between Moties, and us.only after completing the book that I fully realize, with a sickening sensation, that there is so little difference between Moties, and us.	2005-04-03
US	51761391	R1DQ7SM95JPIJP	0761803920	696257640	Culture and Counterculture in Moroccan Politics	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Counter Cultures	Entelis presents an analysis of the political side of Moroccan culture that is filled with excellent insights.  I found that it dove-tailed with my experiences here, and I could agree with his general points.  This is a culture with many different cultures in it, or as the Saharawi of the South call it, \\"The Land of Many Peoples\\".  It is a place filled with constant cultural contradiction- and somehow they make it work.  What we in the West might call Schizophrenia, they call normality, and can approach life constantly code switching.  One moment the conversation is about business and in French, the next moment about relationships and in Arabic, and the next moment a special mixture of Arabic and French as they talk about where they will go on vacation.  Style and stance change as they talk.<br /><br />While I could agree with Entelis on his ideas, I also found his theoretical synthesis of the culture very cogent and helpful.  I had not considered these aspects in this manner before, and found he brought everything together in a new way that helped me make greater sense of the environment here.  I also saw some new ways that I can relate better to Moroccans by acting more as they act.<br /><br />And while the organization could be a little stronger, allowing for a clearer understanding of his sub and final points, the book as a whole gives a very clear presentation of why Morocco is ahead of other Arab and African countries in many ways.  The king uses Islam, Arab culture, and Moroccan cultural symbols constantly to encourage his authority and power, and this synthesis is very aptly maintained.  While Entelis proposes a few segments of society that could possibly be dangers to the kingdom, he rightfully states that none of these pose a real threat, as no other segment of the society can use as expertly all three symbols that the Moroccan people look to.	2005-03-26
US	51761391	R2IEGKVURB0XHT	034545846X	464615514	Homeward Bound	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Bountifully Engaging	Turtledove gives good, engaging writing with great descriptions of another culture.  For me, this is the main reason to read, or watch, science fiction.  This is why I love Star Trek, in it's original form.  It's meeting new cultures, understanding how they work, and through the fiction, understanding how my culture, and other cultures on Earth in reality, work.  So he spends a long time describing life on Home, and this is the best part of the book.<br /><br />There was however a bit too much repetition of ideas, and the denouement was far too quick.  I wanted to find out more, and it ended a bit unsatisfyingly, bringing up some new ideas at the end that are in no way resolved.  It leaves a door for a sequel, sure, but it feels much more like the final book of a series.  And again, as he's done in previous books, he spends a great deal of time on Lizard religion, but refers only to human religions, like Christianity, in degrading terms.<br /><br />At his best, Turtkedove writes books you can't put down.  He is at his best here.  This book includes much of the unexpected.  I had no idea what the surprise theoretical development of the Big Uglies was going to be until it appeared in all it's glory.  That's what makes for a great novel.	2005-03-26
US	51761391	R382HVE2LS7XVO	0785260005	501359545	How to Respond When You Feel Mistreated	Books	4	16	20	N	Y	Response and Repentance	I needed to hear this.  Bevere writes about how we respond when we are mistreated.  Actually, that's not right.  It's when we *feel* we are mistreated.  That's a key distinction.  Because this is all about the responses we can control, not the ones of others that we can not.<br /><br />Bevere sticks very closely to the Bible, generally, and gives great wisdom about leaving vengeance up to God, while loving not just others, but your enemies.  I've started to put some of his ideas into practice after reading this book, inviting some of my enemies over for dinner- for after all, you eat with your friends, but not your enemies.  Particularly striking for me was Bevere's thoughts on how, when we are offended, we step out of the grace of God, and remove the possibility of being blessed by God.<br /><br />There were however some drawbacks to the book.  The writing style is like someone is speaking- too informal for pen on paper.  I was surprised at some of his asides, that would be great when he is giving his speeches, but were completely inappropriate for good writing.  An editor should have caught that.<br /><br />In a couple of his later chapters, he goes on a conservative tangent, actually more like a diatribe, which I found deeply unhelpful.  How he feels about supporting Bush, or being against evolution, or the wrongness of Vietnam protestors, however those ideas may be true or not, is really off-topic.  As is his ideas about obedience to authorities and to husbands.  He believes his ideas are Biblical; many do not.  Whether or not they are, the book would be better without this tangent.  It frankly detracts, and does not help in making his point on the needs for forgiveness and wholeness in Christ.  Yes, we need to forgive authorities.  That doesn't mean that we are supposed to act like they are always right.<br /><br />But this is only a couple chapters in the book.  Truly, Bevere presents nothing new.  It's all there in the Gospels.  He gives it an updated synthesis.  But still, I needed to hear it.  I needed to hear about giving up my rights, as Christ did, especially the right to defend myself.  For after all, He very definitely gave up that right.  The main reason I enjoyed this book, is that I needed to hear it's message.  Maybe you do too.ed synthesis.  But still, I needed to hear it.  I needed to hear about giving up my rights, as Christ did, especially the right to defend myself.  For after all, He very definitely gave up that right.  The main reason I enjoyed this book, is that I needed to hear it's message.  Maybe you do too.	2005-03-26
US	51761391	RJWEMR749BHB1	0822215942	112251856	The Waiting Room	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Binding and Releasing of Women	I was emotionally exhausted after reading this play.  This is not an easy play to read, or observe.  This is edgy, hard, and Truth.  How do our societies manage to destroy women, as they search for beauty?  This is the finest play I have ever read on the oppression women face.<br /><br />Lisa Loomer places a 18th century Chinese woman, a 19th century British woman, and a 20th century American woman all in the same waiting room.  The Chinese woman is there because her feet are rotting off because of binding.  The British woman is there to have her ovaries removed because she suffers from hysteria, which is obvious because she wants to read and study Greek.  Oh, and her corset is destroying her stomach, liver, and kidneys.  The American woman is there because her silicon breast implants have leaked, causing breast cancer.  All three of them think what they are doing is completely reasonable.  All three think what the other two is doing is completely horrific.  So we get the insider's and outsider's perspectives simultaneously within the same characters.  The British woman and Chinese woman who have husbands who think their wives are very wonderful and beautiful and are completely in love with them.  The American woman has no one- something telling about her culture.  Underneath is a subplot of how the modern medical community searches for money, rather than cures- and the very nature of the system is designed to remove the most promising cures.<br /><br />The one detraction from the play is that the sexual scenes are quite graphic.  I had wanted to perform this in my high-school drama class, but found I can't because of gratuitous sex.  Frankly, artistically the play would have been better if it had discussed the sexuality and merely alluded to the sex, leaving it to the imagination rather than playing it out front.<br /><br />The play is full of humor, and provides great opportunities for actors.  A number of parts are designed to be played by the same character, showing us how we are similar and dissimilar in different cultures in different eras.  But everywhere, in every culture, we find a way to oppress women, and to encourage them to oppress themselves:  to destroy their bodies, and to participate in that destruction, in order to maintain the male standard of beauty and the ideal feminine.  There is plenty of humor in the play, both dark and light.  You can not help but feel the disgust as you realize that, yes, in our culture too, we divide the woman into body and spirit, treat her as an object, change her into something she was not, destroy her body, cause in her sickness, disease, and death, so we can see the ideal of our minds expressed in front of us.  For this reward, we lose the real woman that was present.  It's the sin nature, going a long way back.<br /><br />And there are moments of hope and emancipation, which will bring you close to tears.  Find a way to either watch, or read, this play.ar and dissimilar in different cultures in different eras.  But everywhere, in every culture, we find a way to oppress women, and to encourage them to oppress themselves:  to destroy their bodies, and to participate in that destruction, in order to maintain the male standard of beauty and the ideal feminine.  There is plenty of humor in the play, both dark and light.  You can not help but feel the disgust as you realize that, yes, in our culture too, we divide the woman into body and spirit, treat her as an object, change her into something she was not, destroy her body, cause in her sickness, disease, and death, so we can see the ideal of our minds expressed in front of us.  For this reward, we lose the real woman that was present.  It's the sin nature, going a long way back.    And there are moments of hope and emancipation, which will bring you close to tears.  Find a way to either watch, or read, this play.	2005-03-13
US	51761391	R29F803ENCBHRC	0385264666	603947329	Palace Walk: The Cairo Trilogy, Volume 1	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Metaphorical Literalism	It started off a bit slow.  In fact, it took a few weeks for me to read through the first six chapters.  I'd heard he was the best of 20th century Arab authors.  I did not find this to be the case.<br /><br />Mahfouz is one of the best authors I've ever read.  Mahfouz lays the groundwork for character development in the beginning, and we finally get to \\"one day\\"- the point in the story where things start to move.  And things move so well, so beautifully, that it more than makes up for the slow start.  There is rich description of Cairo life in the early 20th century, especially that of women in harem seclusion, and the resulting gulf of understanding between men and women.  I have never read an author who so intimately merges the use of metaphorical description with direct telling of character emotions.  We get to peer into the lives of characters, and into their minds, and see them as they truly are, and as they see themselves.  It reminds me of myself, and real people around me, how we are, how we think we are- for Mahfouz writes people, not characters.  We see the building up of identity, and how it can come crashing down- even when the character doesn't realize it.<br /><br />After reading this book, finishing the last three pages, I was filled with a simple and unutterable \\"Wow.\\"	2005-03-06
US	51761391	R1K4KS2SUVQ9E9	0446577081	734490734	Inside the Kingdom: My Life in Saudi Arabia	Books	3	9	13	N	Y	Inside an Angry Expatriate	This is a valuable book for it's inside look at the Bin Laden family.  It shows us how they worked and how they thought, kind of an emic anthropological approach.  It should be read because there's simply nothing else out there that reveals this kind of information with this detail.<br /><br />But the book was far too vindictive, especially towards a very quick ending.  It reads like a divorced woman writing with her anger still intact, attempting to build a case for why the divorce happened and why she was not at fault.  In retrospect, the entire book, even the happy years, are coloured with the perspective of divorce.  Certainly, from the perspective presented, Carmen has a case for anger.  But it is one side- and, I'd rather read a book on what it's like to live in the Bin Laden family, than a book on why Carmen's marriage failed.<br /><br />Carmen expresses little love for the Saudi culture and little support for the people.  It is almost an entirely negative portrayal.  It seems like the story of a woman in extreme culture shock and culture stress who has never really recognized that she was in culture stress, or dealt with it.  I live in a Muslim, Arab country.  It's certainly not as restrictive as Saudi Arabia.  But there is a lot I find to value in the culture here, though I am neither Muslim nor Arabic- and a lot I find valuable specifically in Islam and even strict Ikhwani Islam.  Perhaps there is negatives in Saudi culture, as there is in every culture.  If those are going to be pointed out, 1) it should be clear that this is an outsider perspective (which Carmen does), and 2) the positives should also be displayed.  You can search through this book for a long time, and find nothing positive shared about Saudi culture.  And after all, this is a culture God is involved with as well.<br /><br />In these times, it is valuable to understand what it's like for Westerners to live in Saudi Arabia, and how the Bin Laden family works.  This makes the book important to read.  But read it with a large shaker of salt next to you.  You'll need to be pouring some on nearly every page.t with a large shaker of salt next to you.  You'll need to be pouring some on nearly every page.	2005-02-06
US	51761391	R15SGUQX14GB1	0836192249	66082471	How to Teach Peace to Children/Out of Print	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good Idea, but Not Enough	A short little book, easily readable in an hour, or a little longer, if you sit and ponder the author's questions and thoughts.  Anne Byler challenges us to speak and act peace in all aspects of our lives.  But by peace, she doesn't just mean passivism, or sitting back with flowers in our hair.  Good as the latter might be, she asks for far more.  Byler speaks of Shalom, the rich Biblical word encompassing a right relationship between God and humanity, men and women, all peoples of all economic levels, and humanity and the land.  It is a return to Eden.  It is the Year of Jubilee.  It is the message of  \\"Why I came,\\" that Jesus preaches in Capernaum.  It is reconstructuring one's entire life to fit with the Biblical model of true Life.<br /><br />Byler is a clear and concise Mennonite prophet, and one that we need.  She tells us that, in order to teach Peace to our children, Peace begins with us, within us.  It is telling our kids a clear theology of Peace, but also acting on it:  working against the draft and war; working to help the poor; working against sexism and racism; working to forgive those who hurt us; working to remove violent anger from our lives; and treating all people with respect.  Then raise your kids in this kind of environment.  Find imaginative ways to steer them away from playing with guns or violent videogames.  Help them learn how to respond to the culture that constantly encourages us to choose the easy path of retribution.  Through all this Byler provides numerous  print, video, and net resources to turn to in order to raise your kids in the path of Peace.<br /><br />But there could be a lot more.  It is perhaps that so much is crammed into a paltry 72 pages that nothing is covered in depth.  I wanted more stories, and more exacting descriptions of how to work with kids.  As a teacher, I was hoping for ideas to use in the classroom, and specific projects.  With this book, I have tons of places to turn to to get all that, if I do a lot more research, and order items from abroad.<br /><br />This is a book that is a beginning in learning how to teach and live Peace, but a bare beginning.  You'll need to back it up with a lot more, and do a lot more work even to find out the ideas of what you should do.  You can find places to look in this book, but the actual information on what you should do is limited.re research, and order items from abroad. <br /> <br />This is a book that is a beginning in learning how to teach and live Peace, but a bare beginning.  You'll need to back it up with a lot more, and do a lot more work even to find out the ideas of what you should do.  You can find places to look in this book, but the actual information on what you should do is limited.	2005-01-22
US	51761391	RPYYD5IOKQI04	0716734966	990811486	Future Evolution	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Superb Writing; Wonderous Science	This is an excellent piece of scientific writing.  Peter Ward is a innovative and imaginative writer, who forcefully brings out images that allow the reader to participate in the experiences Ward describes.  Although there are times when Ward suggests future possibilities, it is clearly not science fiction, such as [[ASIN:0312011636 After Man]] or [[ASIN:B0000YEDYU The Future Is Wild]].  Future Evolution describes the history of evolution and mass extinction on this planet, paying attention to diversification and speciation patterns.  From this, Ward turns to the hallmark of a successful scientific theory- predictability- and posits some possibilities for the future.  But unlike the similar fictional works, these are not precise species-specific predictions.  Rather, Ward looks at the overall trends that would be present in the foreseeable and non-foreseeable futures.<br /><br />The pictures are artistically stimulating, and the book is accessible to the layman and short enough to read in a few hours.  But Ward comes with a great wealth of experience and evolutionary and paleontological expertise that makes his estimates trustworthy.  I learned new facts and whole new ways of thinking from this book.  And there were moments, when he describes his travels in Northern Spain, or returning to New Caledonia 25 years after the drowning death of a friend there, where the writing alone is worth the price of this book.	2005-01-21
US	51761391	R3LGQK4LXPKNEM	0813338786	333614092	God After Darwin: A Theology of Evolution	Books	4	39	46	N	Y	Evolution is Basic Christian Theology	This is a wondrous work, wherein Haught truly presents a theology of evolution.  He doesn't show that evolution is consistent with the Bible- rather that the kind of God we read of in the Bible would *have* to create with evolution.  And that modern materialistic philosophy can in no way answer for evolution- in fact, alone, Christianity is the belief system that most fits with evolutionary biology.<br /><br />Haught uses a wealth of authors, some more well known than others, both biologists and theologians.  He redeems process theology and shows how it fits with the Bible.  He grapples with the best of Gould and presents a way that the magisterium of religion and science *should* mix, while still having their boundaries.<br /><br />Every year I present evolution in my biology class, to students from Christian and Muslim backgrounds, and receive acrimony from administration, parents, and students alike.  To try to assuage the hostility, I teach a day of philosophical approaches to evolution, to indicate that there are many ways to approach this controversial topic, and the students need to talk with their parents about what the best way is for them personally.  This book is causing me to rewrite my class presentation of the philosophy of evolution.  No longer will I break it up into Theistic, Deistic, and Atheistic approaches.  Haught makes a very convincing case for three approaches of Opposition, Separatism, and Engagement.  Ironically, the materialistic atheists and the literal creationists are both in the same camp of opposition.  Separatism is the belief that both science and religion teach different sides of the same coin- something I have found myself on in the past.  But I have long wanted to move more towards Engagement- looking at how evolution would influence the idea of God.  After all, if God made the world this way, as all science indicates, then that should tell us something about God- as Romans 1.20 indicates.<br /><br />Haught provides a way for us to understand God through evolution- but specifically Jesus Christ in God.  It is the theology of kenosis, central to the Christian belief, that is most fully formed in evolution (outside the Incarnation); it is this theology which best philosophically explains evolution.  It is a God who loves enough to step back and allow for that which He loves the freedom to come to Him, in true Love, that causes evolution.  It is a God who opens the doors to possibilities.  This is a God who pours Himself out, who took the form of a servant, who became a human and part of His creation, who died, who is willing to be humble, who is willing to love and to risk losing the ones He loves, who is willing to love and have people turn against Him.  What kind of world would this kind of God create?  Haught argues a world with suffering, with change, always in the process of creation, and therefore not yet perfect, a world that can be changed, is changing, and the creation participating in the creation of itself.  It is a God of the Future, and not the present only, or the past only.  A God, as witnessed throughout the Bible, of Hope, expecting new things.  Behold, He makes all things new.<br /><br />This isn't Deism, for God is very involved, and emotionally moved by what is happening, and participating in the suffering of His creation.  Nor is this trying to step into science.  There is no reason, from a scientific perspective, why evolution has to posit the existence of a God, or His nonexistence.  But the moment we ask, \\"Why would such a world have been allowed to evolve?\\"- when we ask the why questions, then we move into theology.  And neither materialistic evolution nor traditional \\"Intelligent Design\\" theory answer this question adequately- they both ignore the question in much the same way.  ID Theory looks only at the great complexity of certain problems, without answering the awkward byzantine questions of awfulness in creation.  The problem of evil in nature is nothing new- evolution just brings it out much more clearly.  Haught argues the answer is in understanding the character of a God who suffers with his creation, and is willing to see his creation suffer in order to change into something greater, without dictating the creation be as He sees it should be, as if it were merely an extension of him rather than something separate.<br /><br />Where is God then in the evolutionary process?  Haught suggests within information, at all levels- something not defined by science, and not explained by evolutionary theory.  And so God loves all his creation.  I loved the novel idea that God loves the atoms of the rocks as well as us.  Yes, I think He loves me more, but all of his creation are his sons and daughters, for He made it.  All is in the process of forming.  And perhaps, he loves those atoms of rocks because one day they will be (or have been) part of a creation that is more capable of recognizing his wonder and brilliance.  All creation worships Him, the Psalmist says.  A rock is best at it's worship when it is fully rockish.  Which isn't hard for a rock.  But we worship all the more, for we do it fully willingly, and knowingly.  Or we can.  And so are loved all the more for it.<br /><br />But the presence of God is where the book begins to break down.  It is in the end a bit too Deistic for me, still.  While I don't think Haught argues in any way for Deism, I don't think he fully answers the presence of God.  There seems to be little place for the miraculous in his explanations.  If this is a God of Kenosis, as seen in the Incarnation, than He is and always was a God of Kenosis, pouring Himself out in suffering for His creation.  But also if He was a God of the miraculous in the Incarnation, than He always was a God of the miraculous.<br /><br />In the end, Haught remains too far on the side of Arminianism for me.  Yes, God allows His creation to proceed of it's own will- but at the same time, His will is constantly working to shape all things.  In the doctrine of Augustinian predestination, this in no way denies the free realm of chance, for the two happen simultaneously.  This is supported by Haught's argument that God is beyond time and ahead in Time.  Haught's position is that God is present throughout in feeling, but not as actively working as I would like.  He is hoping in the future.  But what is He hoping in?  Were He to hope in anything but Himself, then He Himself would commit idolatry, God forbid.  But then He can not hope in chance, or in the creation that He Himself made through the process of natural selection- rather, He must hope in his continual actions in that same creation.<br /><br />Additionally, Haught is kind of confusing towards the end, where he goes off on some tangents on the presence of the subjective, and other authors' thoughts on it, without ever defining what the subjective is.  And the idea of how original sin entered the world is not well answered.  Naturally, Haught posits, like C.S. Lewis, that the two Genesis stories are myth.  But he then puts the idea of a perfect world, central to the Truth of the myth, as something that never existed, except in the realm of the Perfect Ideal.  [[ASIN:0809138549 Edwards]] does a better job of answering this issue in The God of Evolution.<br /><br />Much of the second half of the book is epistemology, which I ironically find very hard to understand, above all the forms of philosophy.  That made for slow reading- but that's my fault.<br /><br />I think the greatest aspect of this book is Hope.  Not merely hope that we can reconcile evolution and Christianity.  That's there- but that's only a slim part of it.  It is the idea of possibility, the presentness of something pregnant.  Not a wish for the Real- but real Hope, that there will be something coming that is greater than what we have now.  This is God's great desire for us.  This is the witness of the entire Old and New Testaments.  We are going someplace greater on this plan for the future.  What it will be, we don't know.  It is the excitement of the Future that we gain from the God of the Future, He who is the Future, pulling us into a new realm.  He began this eons ago, and continues now, and will present something New, in creatio originalis, creatio continua, and creatio nova.ion, this in no way denies the free realm of chance, for the two happen simultaneously.  This is supported by Haught's argument that God is beyond time and ahead in Time.  Haught's position is that God is present throughout in feeling, but not as actively working as I would like.  He is hoping in the future.  But what is He hoping in?  Were He to hope in anything but Himself, then He Himself would commit idolatry, God forbid.  But then He can not hope in chance, or in the creation that He Himself made through the process of natural selection- rather, He must hope in his continual actions in that same creation.    Additionally, Haught is kind of confusing towards the end, where he goes off on some tangents on the presence of the subjective, and other authors' thoughts on it, without ever defining what the subjective is.  And the idea of how original sin entered the world is not well answered.  Naturally, Haught posits, like C.S. Lewis, that the two Genesis stories are myth.  But he then puts the idea of a perfect world, central to the Truth of the myth, as something that never existed, except in the realm of the Perfect Ideal.  [[ASIN:0809138549 Edwards]] does a better job of answering this issue in The God of Evolution.    Much of the second half of the book is epistemology, which I ironically find very hard to understand, above all the forms of philosophy.  That made for slow reading- but that's my fault.    I think the greatest aspect of this book is Hope.  Not merely hope that we can reconcile evolution and Christianity.  That's there- but that's only a slim part of it.  It is the idea of possibility, the presentness of something pregnant.  Not a wish for the Real- but real Hope, that there will be something coming that is greater than what we have now.  This is God's great desire for us.  This is the witness of the entire Old and New Testaments.  We are going someplace greater on this plan for the future.  What it will be, we don't know.  It is the excitement ofthe Future that we gain from the God of the Future, He who is the Future, pulling us into a new realm.  He began this eons ago, and continues now, and will present something New, in creatio originalis, creatio continua, and creatio nova.	2004-12-28
US	51761391	R2IIPWTBXBZXT0	0743488156	70854276	1634: The Galileo Affair (The Assiti Shards)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Exhilarating	Starting off slowly, with too much labyrinthine Byzantine politics, with time the book increases in pace and interest.  It's not really a book about Galileo though- it's rather mistitled.  The story is about the mission to Venice, and trying to establish USE presence in the country.  Galileo's possible rescue is an undercurrent in the story really until the last 1/5th of the novel.<br /><br />But the book is well written and engaging.  It is especially pleasant to read an alternative history work that is *not* constantly focused on war and gruesome violence.  I appreciated the strong correction of historical events on Galileo's trial not being about science or religion, but politics- something Stephen Jay Gould has written extensively on in Rock of Ages.  The less engaging sections are pulled up by great twists in plot and unexpected but believable character developments.  Flint writes in such a way that the reader believes that they are forewarned of looming disaster, for they have heard a character desperately hope for something greater- and then the result is what neither the character nor the reader expects.<br /><br />I look forward to reading other works in this series, and recommend the series from 1632 throughout the 17th century.	2004-12-28
US	51761391	R1OEKHYLPZNDGL	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	4	3	8	N	Y	Asked and Answered	Strobel has a good, clean writing style, giving the facts, not resorting to unnecessary words- he writes like a journalist should.  This helps immeasurably in making an easy to understand book, while giving detailed needed information.<br /><br />Questions are posed and answered.  In fact, all the major questions about the authenticity and reliability of the Gospels, the early Church, and Jesus are answered clearly.  This is an immensely helpful resource for apologetics, and for the searching mind.  Strobel writes without malice and attack, and without being preachy.  He simply presents the facts.<br /><br />Now, definitely, there's bias here.  He only interviews people who are on his side.  And at times he seems to softball his questions to them.  This was confusing because of some of the overall format of the book.  He states at the beginning of the book that he became a Christian through his wife, after carefully considering the evidence, and then precedes to share with us his many interviews with experts in different areas- literature, Biblical studies, archeology, medicine, psychology... And throughout these interviews, I'm trying to figure out when this was written.  Initially his wife gets converted twenty years ago.  Then one interview mentions the Oklahoma City bombing...Surely it can't have been that long between when he first raised the questions and when he got around to interviewing people?  Only at the end of the book do we find out that Strobel became a Christian after seeing his wife's life change, and then searching through the answers in *books* on his own.  This book that he's written presents numerous interviews that he's done 20 years later, as a Christian, to recapture the work that he did on his own reading through books, authored by his interviewees.  But his questioning style seems to be like a skeptic.  Things would be more clear if the chronology of his conversion and who he is when interviewing were stated at the beginning of the book.<br /><br />One of the greatest benefits to this book is the great breadth of research presented.  Because he interviews top experts in the field- in the many fields- all in one place we get the complete story of the veracity of these texts, and the life of Jesus.  There is a lot of false information on this subject out there- perhaps more on this subject than any other in history.  As a former student of the only non-clerical member of the Jesus Seminar, I heard a perspective that the Jesus Seminar had the correct Truth, and they weren't the liberal fringe, but standard scholarship.  But outside of the Jesus Seminar, few believe this.  It's nice to see that misinformation repeatedly corrected in this text, as different theologians look through the dramatic preconceptions that groups like the Jesus Seminar have.<br /><br />I particularly enjoyed the thought-provoking questions at the end of the chapter.  Strobel doesn't want us to simply read this book, and think, \\"Yes, well done.  Enjoyable read.\\"  He wants people's lives to be changed through this, be they Christian or not.  The questions he asked at the end of each chapter were certainly not softballs, but hard-hitting, from whatever perspective you come from, and ideally designed for an individual or group who decides to read this book together.<br /><br />However, this book could have been stronger with some contrary interviews presented, and a chance to hear the arguments of the other side.  This is shown by the last chapter, presented as an appendix, the first chapter of his new book, The Case for Faith.  There he interviews Templeton, a former preacher and friend of Billy Graham, now a strong agnostic and denier of Christ.  In that interview with Templeton, as Templeton was dying, we see a real person, presenting real problems with his life, and the life of Christ.  I would have liked to see more of this, and more interplay between the positions within Strobel's book.. <br /> <br />One of the greatest benefits to this book is the great breadth of research presented.  Because he interviews top experts in the field- in the many fields- all in one place we get the complete story of the veracity of these texts, and the life of Jesus.  There is a lot of false information on this subject out there- perhaps more on this subject than any other in history.  As a former student of the only non-clerical member of the Jesus Seminar, I heard a perspective that the Jesus Seminar had the correct Truth, and they weren't the liberal fringe, but standard scholarship.  But outside of the Jesus Seminar, few believe this.  It's nice to see that misinformation repeatedly corrected in this text, as different theologians look through the dramatic preconceptions that groups like the Jesus Seminar have. <br /> <br />I particularly enjoyed the thought-provoking questions at the end of the chapter.  Strobel doesn't want us to simply read this book, and think, \\"Yes, well done.  Enjoyable read.\\"  He wants people's lives to be changed through this, be they Christian or not.  The questions he asked at the end of each chapter were certainly not softballs, but hard-hitting, from whatever perspective you come from, and ideally designed for an individual or group who decides to read this book together. <br /> <br />However, this book could have been stronger with some contrary interviews presented, and a chance to hear the arguments of the other side.  This is shown by the last chapter, presented as an appendix, the first chapter of his new book, The Case for Faith.  There he interviews Templeton, a former preacher and friend of Billy Graham, now a strong agnostic and denier of Christ.  In that interview with Templeton, as Templeton was dying, we see a real person, presenting real problems with his life, and the life of Christ.  I would have liked to see more of this, and more interplay between the positions within Strobel's book.	2004-11-26
US	51761391	R3986APG643IM7	0060652942	472936459	The Abolition of Man	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	On First Things	This was just really enjoyable to read.  Quick, certainly, but, oh, such excellent writing!  And even clearer philosophy.  I feel I must approach the Master with great humility, for his style and thoughts are so much clearer than my own.  What right have I to critique him?<br /><br />I'll do it anyway.<br /><br />This would be an excellent introductory book to a class on religions.  Lewis displays a convincing argument for the existence of morality, using resources from many different traditions, not just his own Christian one.  He is to be commended however for also stating his own tradition, that we might know his biases.  (The only flaw is a lack of Islamic sources, perhaps because Lewis tended to know less about that particular religion than others.)  It is hard to walk away from the book still convinced that there are no ethics, or that an aethitical system is possible.<br /><br />Those who have read other Lewis works will see echoes here, such as the essay On First Things from God in the Dock, That Hideous Strength, and the Magician's Nephew.  Lewis uses his knowledge of literature to show us that morality is necessary if we are to speak realistically at all; that an amoral system of ethics is by nature moral; and that one absent of any morality at all is reduced simply to animal instincts.  In this last unit, he preaches of the fear that science will reduce humanity into mere object, rather than into a glorious creation.  In no way is this anti-scientific diatribe- but rather cautionary tale of the dangers of excess, if we continue in our current vein of thought.<br /><br />A couple flaws bring the book down. Early on, he takes a swipe at pacifism by implying that there is something wrong with those who argue that men are more righteous if they value peace over war.  Happily, this is only momentary.  And secondly, he consistently uses the word \\"man\\".  Lewis is a product of his times, yes, but he also strongly argued against inclusive language or women in the pulpit, and his language reflects this.  And so the book's title.  As well as the use of the term \\"redskin\\" when referring to ancient Native American beliefs at the end of the book.<br /><br />Lewis is at his best when demolishing arguments, using the arguments of his opponents.  He does this with tact and compassion, not even mentioning the opponents by name, and constantly complimenting on what they have said- but not being afraid to point out the great tragedy that would result if students of a particular \\"Little Green Book\\" were to take the authors seriously.  If followed, we would lose something deep within us, the capacity to have passion, and enjoy life, out of which morality springs.  For following the guidelines of the Little Green Book, we would no longer be able to say something was good in and of itself, but only that it felt good, as everything is now subjective.<br /><br />But there is an alternative, the Tao, the Way, which we find in all cultures everywhere, and in all religious traditions.  The morality, as Lewis has said many times before in many other places, is basically the same in all religious systems; there is only the smallest of differences between them.  And this morality is the guiding principle, or can be, or should be, for us all.  It is inherent in our . . . very nature.en in the pulpit, and his language reflects this.  And so the book's title.  As well as the use of the term \\"redskin\\" when referring to ancient Native American beliefs at the end of the book. <br /> <br />Lewis is at his best when demolishing arguments, using the arguments of his opponents.  He does this with tact and compassion, not even mentioning the opponents by name, and constantly complimenting on what they have said- but not being afraid to point out the great tragedy that would result if students of a particular \\"Little Green Book\\" were to take the authors seriously.  If followed, we would lose something deep within us, the capacity to have passion, and enjoy life, out of which morality springs.  For following the guidelines of the Little Green Book, we would no longer be able to say something was good in and of itself, but only that it felt good, as everything is now subjective. <br /> <br />But there is an alternative, the Tao, the Way, which we find in all cultures everywhere, and in all religious traditions.  The morality, as Lewis has said many times before in many other places, is basically the same in all religious systems; there is only the smallest of differences between them.  And this morality is the guiding principle, or can be, or should be, for us all.  It is inherent in our . . . very nature.	2004-11-26
US	51761391	R2I844HX8YKN4L	0743465016	136286484	Genesis Force (Star Trek: the Next Generation) (Bk.4)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Abysmal	There is good science fiction out there.  There are good Trek novels.  This isn't them.  This was awful.<br /><br />It started out interestingly enough.  The author explores in depth a number of characters on an non-Federation planet.  We see a new culture, and new people.  But even here there are a lot of missed opportunities.  The culture is not delved into; we see few differences in culture other than what you might find on earth.  Indeed, this culture is about as different from 20th century American culture as 20th century England is.  It is written like a TOS episode, without a great deal of imagination.<br /><br />The book goes downhill from there.  There are few explanations for the events which follow.  Characters are not believable, and amazingly flat.  I have no idea why most of them did what they did.  The Enterprise shows up at the last second, and I think saves the day, but there was no point to include them, other than that this is a Star Trek novel.  There are scenes of amazing gruesomeness, which one does not usually find in a Trek novel or show- and there is no point to their inclusion.  Except perhaps to claim to be cutting edge by being gruesome.  I'm reading this novel, thinking that there are only about ten pages left- how are they going to satisfactorily resolve everything?  Sure enough, they resolve everything- and it's anything but satisfactory.  It's like there was a page limit, and the author realized that there were only ten pages to finish up the story, so lets come up with any old way to fix things.<br /><br />The first half of the novel is in-depth; the second half rushed and confusing.  I feel like I wasted an evening.	2004-11-19
US	51761391	R2EMFSQVP15KEK	0345430212	269666887	Aftershocks (Colonization, Book 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Believable	Which is about the highest praise alternative history can get, I believe. Turtledove creates an alternate universe that seems completely real. If aliens had invaded in WWII, this is what we would be presented with, in the 40s and the 60s. By using very personal characters, with famous, infamous, and unknown historical personages. Turtledove makes excellent use of his strong background in history. He has a creative writing style that pulls the reader in, with many unexpected results, and few flat characters. Those that are, are flat for a reason- lizards culturally evolve slowly.<br /><br />There are some weaknesses in Turtledove's writing style as well. He has the same flaw as Tolkien- weak female characters. Perhaps it is a result of his gender, but I began to realize that the only involved females he imagined were those of an alien race, or those who were raised by an alien race- thus not truly human females. He seems to skip over getting in the minds of women, as he does so well with men, which results in somewhat half of the story being told.<br /><br />The other major flaw is Turtledove's treatment of Christianity. It is sad that he merely apes this inaccuracy which is so typical of the science fiction genre. In the future, if religion exists at all, it is certainly not the Christian religion- or if so, a pale imitation of it. This flaw is most prevalent in this latest work of the series, where Turtledove speaks of the Muslims and Jews to a great extent, and how they follow what the believe, but the Christians are not willing to die for their beliefs, nor commit to worshipping one God. This is a grave departure from historical (or present) reality, where over half of the Christians in the world live in the 2/3rds world, the largest religion in the world is Christianity, and more have died for their Christian faith in the 20th century than the previous 19 combined.<br /><br />Despite these two blemishes, it is a very enjoyable work. If one has read through the entire series till now, you definitely want to complete it. If not, you want to read the other books before coming to this one. Though the book is understandable on it's own, it doesn't make as much sense by itself. It is a fitting near-ending (2nd to the last), where most storylines are resolved, but the biggest and largest only hinted at till the end of the book, to be finally resolved later in the 21st century., you definitely want to complete it. If not, you want to read the other books before coming to this one. Though the book is understandable on it's own, it doesn't make as much sense by itself. It is a fitting near-ending (2nd to the last), where most storylines are resolved, but the biggest and largest only hinted at till the end of the book, to be finally resolved later in the 21st century.	2004-11-18
US	51761391	RVBWQ083VB2B8	0345402405	264760469	Upsetting the Balance (Worldwar Series, Volume 3)	Books	4	1	5	N	Y	Gripping Reading	I remained enthralled throughout this novel, eager to know what would next transpire.  Turtledove maintains commendable control over his characters, and character development, and the character legend at the beginning of the novel is very helpful for keeping everyone straight.<br /><br />Few people can blend great science fiction and great history like Turtledove.  His doctorate in history is evident in surprisingly detailed renditions of life in Nazi Germany, America, the Soviet Union, and Great Britian of the 1960's.  And Turtledove shows us a very realistic perspective of how a slow culturally-evolving species like the Lizards might respond when confronted with the change-loving Humans.<br /><br />It is unfortunate that Turtledove gives such short shrift to the 2/3rds world.  It is only mentioned in passing, with most of the focus being on the responses of the first world, in the USSR, Europe, and America, to the lizard invasion.  China is a notable exception.  This is particularly seen in a bare mention of some non-violent resistance movement in India by a gentleman named Ghandi.  In other short stories, Turtledove has expressed his lack of optimism for the success of non-violent movements, and those of Ghandi in particular, where he posits that Ghandi would have failed in response to Nazi invasion of India.  This shows a blind spot in Turtledove's thinking, for he seems to be unaware of the tremendous success of proactive pacifist movements throughout history.  It would be interesting to see greater exploration of nonviolent action in response to the Lizard invasion of India.	2004-11-14
US	51761391	R2DSSYNID5COYI	0345430204	508419979	Down to Earth (Colonization, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Well Done.	I waited with baited breath to see what would next turn up.  And I was not disappointed- there are enough twists at the end of the book to satisfy any fan of O'Henry.  Some are predictable, some are not.  It is enjoyable reading.<br /><br />Turtledove can be long-winded at times, and deserves occasional skimming, but he keeps that to a minimum in this book.  Every book seems to have repeated information that gets kind of old, such as the original probe's vision of the inhabitants of Earth 800 years ago- but perhaps that is necessary for the reader who picks Book 6 off the bookstore shelf at random.<br /><br />He manages to continue to follow the characters, and keep the myriad of characters clear.  Some of the stories are more boring than others.  There are times when the sex scenes are gratuitous and too detailed to be helpful.  It is unfortunate to see how Rance and Penny have been reduced to drug dealers, when they had such a wonderful relationship 20 years ago.  Perhaps that disappointment and lack of character continuity from the original integrity of those characters makes their story rather dull- it would be nice for Turtledove to drop them off the storyboard.<br /><br />Perhaps the greatest part of the story is how well Turtledove shows the cultures interacting.  We gain great depths of knowledge into the beliefs and practices of the mythical lizard culture, as well as a greater understanding of human culture, from the helpful outside-observer, godlike position of the lizards.  Turtledove goes further to show changes in cultures, as humans and lizards impact each other.  And as always, he uses his extensive knowledge of history to accurately predict the \\"what-if\\" impact on various societies.	2004-11-14
US	51761391	R219WWK8KA70V4	0345430220	526175623	Second Contact (Colonization, Book 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Another Great Read	2nd Contact continues to be fascinating reading.  Characters are round and well-developed.  The plot is intriguing, and you are eager to get to the next page to find out what next happens.  This is not simply a repeat of the previous subseries.  There is much new here, with the arrival of the colonists and there seeing things anew.  Now there is a cultural divide between colonists and conquerors; those who have just gotten to Earth, and those who have adapted over 20 years to a very alien culture (from the Lizard perspective).  It puts me in mind of much the same experience that a 3rd Culture Kid, one who grows up in a foreign country, experiences as they try to determine who and what they are.  This is accentuated with the introduction of Kassquit, a human child raised on the orbiting Lizard ship.  And just for fun, there are a number of new creatures introduced as well, as Lizard plants, livestock, and pets begin to wreck havoc with the indigenous environment of Earth.<br /><br />Yet there are many things missing here.  The Muslims become a force to be reckoned with, as they stage protests with the Ayotollah.  But now that there is more use of 2/3rds world people than just the Chinese, Turtledove seems to launch into stereotypes, with the Muslims only as violent attackers.  Yes, they probably would attack if Allah was insulted in the ways that the Lizards do.  But there is more to their culture than just attacking.  There is a huge opportunity to comment on the similarity between cubic Lizard places of worship and that of the Ka'ba- but the opportunity is not used.  And though Muslims and Jews are prominently discussed, and their reactions to religious persecution by the Lizards, there is little to no discussion of the Christian responses.  What happened to the Christians?  Although the Pope was previously killed in the bombing of Rome, the Catholic church has long had mechanisms set up to replace Popes.  But there is no mention of him, or the Catholic church.  Further, a good 40% of Christendom is not Catholic, and in the 60's, about 45% of Christendom lived in the 2/3rds world, under the control of the Lizards.  Yet, as is typical of science fiction, religion is rarely discussed, and if it is, Christianity is usually forgotten.<br /><br />A couple things make it more difficult to read this work, because of the plot choices that Turtledove made.  It is sad, and unfortunate, the choices Penny and Rance evidently have made, considering their beautiful relationship at the end of the last book.  But it is also gritty reality, on the bitterness that develops in people over time.  It is also uncomfortable to see rising anti-Semitism in Britain with a unified Reich next door.  On this point, I question how accurate Turtledove's presentation is, and if Britain would truly become progressively more anti-Jewish given these circumstances.Further, a good 40% of Christendom is not Catholic, and in the 60's, about 45% of Christendom lived in the 2/3rds world, under the control of the Lizards.  Yet, as is typical of science fiction, religion is rarely discussed, and if it is, Christianity is usually forgotten. <br /> <br />A couple things make it more difficult to read this work, because of the plot choices that Turtledove made.  It is sad, and unfortunate, the choices Penny and Rance evidently have made, considering their beautiful relationship at the end of the last book.  But it is also gritty reality, on the bitterness that develops in people over time.  It is also uncomfortable to see rising anti-Semitism in Britain with a unified Reich next door.  On this point, I question how accurate Turtledove's presentation is, and if Britain would truly become progressively more anti-Jewish given these circumstances.	2004-11-14
US	51761391	R1N8BBTQFOXTLQ	0345412087	948808775	Striking the Balance (Worldwar Series, Volume 4)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Ending and Beginning	Turtledove continues to maintain interest in the final book of the first subseries of World War.  It is a satisfactory ending, and beginning.  The plotlines are neatly wrapped up, with a number of shockers.  But not too neatly wrapped up- there is a lot of room to see how the two species will develop next to each other.<br /><br />It is most enjoyable to see the development of history along parallel lines.  After all, this is the purpose of alternative history books.  We learn more about history by contemplating what might have been, and therefore learn what could be.  Turtledove does this very well, showing how the major powers of WWII might have responded to an alien attack.  He does this precisely and accurately, not simply using the 1940's as background to his real story, but trying to truly predict what might have been, based on what was- the facts and people on the ground.  And so the ending is really very realistic- what we would expect from an advanced species attacking earth, but a species that has a much slower cultural evolution than do we.<br /><br />It is a bit depressing to see so many cities destroyed by nuclear warfare- especially a good number of cities I've lived in.  This detracts a little from the enjoyment of the work.  But I am eager to begin reading the next subseries.	2004-11-14
US	51761391	R1UER8J5G46QFP	0345389980	10939160	Tilting the Balance (Worldwar Series, Volume 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Really Excellently Written	Turtledove doesn't always write well.  Sometimes he can get bogged down in the minutiae of all his knowledge, I think, and the story drags.  Not so in the World War series.  I am learning more about WWII, and enjoying it as well.  The characters are excellently portrayed, and Turtledove really gets into their minds.  He can balance out a multiplicity of characters, keeping them all separate and easily understandable, unlike say Robert Jordan in his fantasy series.  And Turtledove really sees it from the perspective of each of his characters!  Male or Female, Chinese or Russian, Human or mythical lizard, he's done his research, and projects himself in a believable way into the mind of each character, so we see the characters come to life and act true to life.<br /><br />This story continues the fight of the ware to end all wars.  Turtledove uses the standard of this genre of multiple stories progressing at once, switching between them soap opera style.  There are times when the story does bog down a little, but there are so many stories going on at the same time that one can breeze through that section to move on to the next more exciting part.  And this isn't just one subject, as some alternative history gets into.  There is military conquest, love and romance, cultural anthropology- there are a number of different themes progressing concurrently through the text, to satisfy any reader's whim.  So far, I would definitely recommend the series.	2004-10-31
US	51761391	R7PKDNKH1Z3SX	0226548236	553806721	Free to Die for Their Country: The Story of the Japanese American Draft Resisters in World War II (Chicago Series in Law and Society)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	When your country asks too much of you:	I heard about this book in a seminar in Seattle on Japanese-American internees during WWII.  I immediately wanted to get it.  Some hint about Japanese-American CO's, who were imprisoned just near Seattle, along with Quakers?  I had to find out!<br /><br />This is a well researched book, copiously footnoted, with extensive primary and secondary sources.  Better yet, Muller is a good author.  Don't always get that with a good research non-fiction work.  He had me interested, wanting to find out more, hating to put the book down.  Muller doesn't simply come off as a bleeding-heart- he dispassionately relates the experiences of the Japanese-Americans, and critiques their actions, with both positive and negative assessments.  Yet he manages to bring out in the end how atrocious the actions were of our government- to take people, strip them of their rights, deny them their basic rights as citizens, and then call them to kill others, on the basis that they *are* citizens.  He tells the story of how they came to be in the camps, how the decisions were made to put them in the draft (assisted greatly by the JACO, 2nd generation Japanese who were willing to sell out their own people in order to gain more respect from the American government), how and why some chose to resist, and the long struggle that came from the results of those actions, leading up to the present day.<br /><br />There was one most excellent quote in the book.  One judge, after the internment camps are disbanded, writes how the constitution should guarantee basic rights to everyone in our land- regardless of if they are citizens or not.  The parallels between the experiences of the Japanese-Americans in WWII and those of another ethnicity today are chilling.	2004-10-22
US	51761391	RF2LBHYXEFXDZ	0800792106	598747317	Healing the Land: A Supernatural View of Ecology	Books	1	4	21	N	N	Why Chemists Should Not Write Biology Books	This was a very poorly written book.  I had difficulty finishing it.  My motivation was that, in order to conscientiously review, I needed to read the entire book.  But I have to confess I had to resort to skimming to get through it.<br /><br />This is a treatise on why chemists should not write biology books.  I don't doubt that Pratney knows a good deal about Chemistry, more than I do.  But I know a good deal more about Biology than he does, having studied it and taught it.  And as a chemist, he doesn't know jack about biology.  If you were listening as I read it, you would have heard my groans of despair at the utter incomprehensibility of Pratney's statements about biology.  He makes facts up as he goes along.  I'm sure that he believes what he wrote is true.  But it's utterly lacking in sound research or actual truth about the biological world.  He wants to prove that nature is actually kind, and not in constant competition.  So he brings up some anecdotal evidence to prove this.  But no studies.  Any scientist should know better than this.  I don't doubt the anecdotes.  They may be true.  But that doesn't indicate a theory- that's why we have studies.  That's why we have the scientific method.<br /><br />I really had been looking forward to reading this book for years.  I'd had it on my shelf, and hadn't had time until now to get to it.  What a disappointment!  For it's advertised as a book with a Christian approach to environmentalism- going beyond practicality, to see the wonder and majesty of the world around us, to get back to an idea of the grace of God as expressed in nature.  But instead, the first 2/3rds of the book are spent in a polemic against evolution- which is really rather a red herring.  Again, for this polemic, Pratney brings up numerous facts that simply don't exist.  Most of this is creating strawmen, arguing that Evolutionists believe certain things, argue certain beliefs, that they don't, and then showing how the Evolutionists are incorrect.  A bit of training in actual evolutionary theory would have done wonders.  Pratney even goes so far as to argue that natural selection and competition in nature don't exist- something even the most die-hard Creationist doesn't advocate.<br /><br />Pratney spends a long time on Cleve Backster's plants that sense human emotions.  He even devotes an entire chapter to it.  In the end Pratney has a caveat that maybe Backster's ideas aren't true- but then Pratney builds much of his argument in that chapter on possibly untrue hypothesis!  It is a rather ridiculous hypothesis at that, which even Pratney points out was unduplicatable by other scientists- therefore making it *by definition* unscientific, according to the scientific method.  A Chemist should no better.<br /><br />You may wonder why I'm not addressing the key point of the book.  That's because Pratney never really gets to it.  Instead, it's mostly full of tangents, with repeated assertions and some argumentation, about how we should care about the land, and how materialism and evolution keep us from seeing the wonder of God's creation.  (A wholly materialistic outlook *does* keep us from doing so; an evolutionary outlook by itself of course does not; a wholly spiritual outlook is naturally an early heresy.)  An example of these tangents is a chapter repeating the Zionist myth of a deserted wasteland of Palestine, until the Jews came in to make something bloom in the desert.  Though there is copious evidence to indicate that Palestine was one of the most fertile areas of the Middle East before 1948, that doesn't fit with Pratney's argument that the righteousness of the Israelis has brought God's blessing back to the land of Israel.  In so doing, he commits a classic error of misconstruing modern Israel with ancient, Biblical Israel, that Israelis and Israelites are the same people, metaphysically speaking.  He is being unscientific in ignoring contrary evidence and not presenting it and discussing it.  And most of all, it has absolutely nothing to do with the stated purpose of the book.<br /><br />Pratney writes from 1993, after the 1st Gulf War.  It's not his fault that events after his writing have revealed more.  But Gulf War II belies the ideas presented in the book that God came to save the glorious Americans in their putsch to defeat Iraq in Gulf War I.  Pratney writes about how prayer saved many American lives, advocating the Myth of Redemptive Violence that [[ASIN:080062646X Walter Wink]] speaks of.  Pratney's goal seems to be to show how God can help us when we pray.  To do this, Pratney ignores the many violent Iraqi deaths.  From the 2nd Gulf War we learn the American cost in lives.  Pratney writes of how kindly the Iraqis were treated, implying it was the lack of Islam and the commitment to Christianity by American troops that was the root of the kindness.  But as everyone now knows from the 2nd Gulf War, from Abu Ghaib, the great kindness of Americans at war is also somewhat myth, as much as the idea of America as a \\"Christian\\" nation.  To speak of God coming gloriously, that God is on our side as we fight this war, and at the same time to speak of the need to stop the rape of the land, is somewhat disingenuous.<br /><br />There are some helpful aspects, like a discussion of Romans 8, but these are relegated to an appendix, when they should be central to the work.  The best part of the book is an appendix on the destruction of the environment under Islam.  But this is by Charles Lynn, a different author.<br /><br />I was about to throw this book away in the trash after reading it.  But there's a compendium of environmental scriptures at the end of the book, which makes it a helpful resource for me to hold on to.  Sadly, not near enough to redeem the book from the wasteland that it is.hing to do with the stated purpose of the book.    Pratney writes from 1993, after the 1st Gulf War.  It's not his fault that events after his writing have revealed more.  But Gulf War II belies the ideas presented in the book that God came to save the glorious Americans in their putsch to defeat Iraq in Gulf War I.  Pratney writes about how prayer saved many American lives, advocating the Myth of Redemptive Violence that [[ASIN:080062646X Walter Wink]] speaks of.  Pratney's goal seems to be to show how God can help us when we pray.  To do this, Pratney ignores the many violent Iraqi deaths.  From the 2nd Gulf War we learn the American cost in lives.  Pratney writes of how kindly the Iraqis were treated, implying it was the lack of Islam and the commitment to Christianity by American troops that was the root of the kindness.  But as everyone now knows from the 2nd Gulf War, from Abu Ghaib, the great kindness of Americans at war is also somewhat myth, as much as the idea of America as a \\"Christian\\" nation.  To speak of God coming gloriously, that God is on our side as we fight this war, and at the same time to speak of the need to stop the rape of the land, is somewhat disingenuous.    There are some helpful aspects, like a discussion of Romans 8, but these are relegated to an appendix, when they should be central to the work.  The best part of the book is an appendix on the destruction of the environment under Islam.  But this is by Charles Lynn, a different author.    I was about to throw this book away in the trash after reading it.  But there's a compendium of environmental scriptures at the end of the book, which makes it a helpful resource for me to hold on to.  Sadly, not near enough to redeem the book from the wasteland that it is.	2004-10-03
US	51761391	R362JZU3HB84G	B0002ST9DY	407343179	Honor Lost: Love and Death in Modern-Day Jordan	Books	1	15	20	N	Y	I never do this.	Review a book I didn't finish.  But I feel safer in doing so now that this book has turned out to be a hoax.<br /><br />See, there were two reasons I couldn't complete the book, and only got through a few chapters.  First off, the writing quality, well, it was incredibly bad.  I mean, it hurt my head to read it.  But I probably on a matter of principle would have plowed on anyway.  I had sat down with high hopes for this book, as I have an abiding interest in all things Arab and in the predicament of women.<br /><br />But there was something about the way the author wrote.  I couldn't put my finger on, it was far too nebulous- which is another reason why I hesitated to review the book.  She was constantly denigrating Arabs and Arab culture.  Which I suppose if you are Arabic you're allowed to do.  But there was something off about the way she did it.  Part of it was the lack of positive description of the culture- and one would hope that someone could see *some* positive aspects about their own culture!  But more than that, she denigrated the culture and people in a way that didn't seem like a native of the culture would.  It felt like something that an outsider would write.  It read much like negative treatises on Arab Muslims that see them all as terrorists, or some stereotypical orientalist literature I've read.  But I couldn't quite say why.<br /><br />Now I can, and now we know.  Don't read this book, for two reasons.  The point of the book is that the author is giving you a first-person view of Arabic culture.  But it's not actually written by a woman growing up in Jordan, and it doesn't read like it.  The more important reason not to read it?  It's really, really, really bad writing.	2004-10-02
US	51761391	RLKVVXA8X8403	B00005X06U	773154602	A Treasury of Great Science Fiction	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Average	Compendiums are hard to rate.  Especially when there's more than one author.  Some stories can be phenomenally great; others equally abysmal.  As such, I have averaged all the stories out, and come up with a predictable average grade- 2.5 for the book as a whole.<br /><br />A Treasury starts out well enough, with Wyndham's Re-Birth: Earth in the far future, after nuclear holocaust, and the development in some of latent psychic abilities.  Lots of mystery, good imagination, engaging storyline.  Then comes a rather sad The Shape of Things that Came by Deming- ridiculing with satire those who don't see dramatic changes in the future.  A nice idea, but too short of a story to bring out full meaning, and it's been done a lot.  Pillar of Fire by Ray Bradbury is really awful, combing science fiction with some sort of weird vampire that is never fully explained.  Fantasy and Sci-Fi shouldn't be mixed- or if they are, at least explained plausibly.<br /><br />Waldo by Robert Heinlein also doesn't explain enough, and is a bit weird in the feel of the writing- about what you'd expect from Heinlein.  The Father-Thing by Philip K. Dick is more horror than Sci-Fi, and really doesn't belong in such a compendium.  It's kind of like a primer for Invasion of the Body Snatchers.<br /><br />Kuttner and Moore write The Children's Hour, the only story in this collection that is not outstandingly good or bad.  A man can't remember what happened to him, and slowly gathers information to understand he's been dating a being from an alternate reality.  The beauty of this writing is that it's mythic, and has the feel of great myth.  But again, not enough is explained.<br /><br />Gomez is a delightful little tale about a Puerto Rican man who knows more of Physics than Einstein.  Kornbluth again captures the reader, and gives a nice morality lesson as well, warning of the dangers of our treatment of humanity.  Indicative of the best of Science Fiction.<br /><br />Sandra by George P. Elliott is simply awful.  Unless you're into reading something that seems to be a strong apologetic for slavery in the future.  And \\"The [Widget], The [Wadget], and Boff\\" by Sturgeon is so badly written and confusing that it was the only story in the collection I had to end up skimming and hoping it would end.<br /><br />Beyond Space and time by Rogers has an interesting premise.  A man who doesn't realize that his friend is trying to hit on his wife, and remove him as competition by building a space ship to the outer galactic rim.  But the end doesn't explain enough, and the premise is ruined.<br /><br />Happily, the final stories and the collection on a top note.  Poul Anderson's The Martian Crown Jewels are enjoyable reading- a Martian detective who follows the Sherlock Holmes school of philosophy helps a Terran living on Phobos recaptures Mars' most precious jewels.<br /><br />Definitely the best is the last- Vogt's The Weapon Shops of Isher.  Though it could be read as an apologetic for the National Rifle Association, it is incredibly well written.  The story blends together future life (7,000 years from now) with time travel.  It is morality, about how to restrain government, and how to pursue growth.  There are some unexplained aspects, but they are dues ex machinas that don't detract from the overall storyline.  The story is constantly coming up with twists that don't seem implausible, and resolution is complete, satisfying, and unexpected.<br /><br />Most of all, it is intriguing to read a collection of stories from the 1940's and 1950's.  Here is a time when scientists and therefore science fiction writers don't yet know that Mars has no breathable atmosphere, Venus is full of deadly gases, and neither has indigenous intelligent life.  So Anderson writes of intelligent storks living on Mars breathing blue air.  Sometimes in the early 21st century, with the knowledge we now have, believability must be suspended in reading these stories.  Or at the very least, one imagines that the stories are taking place in other Solar Systems where such planets might, conceivably, possibly, exist.es that the stories are taking place in other Solar Systems where such planets might, conceivably, possibly, exist.	2004-09-25
US	51761391	RSI3GHSUNDF0Q	0451457803	201826021	On the Oceans of Eternity	Books	2	12	25	N	Y	A Very European Ending	It's amazing how a phenomenally good series can crash so magnificently in the end of one book.  This book ends in the opposite way from which it started.  It is dismal, disappointing, and makes me want to put the book down.  Actually, that's not fair.  It makes me wish I'd never picked the first book in the series up.<br /><br />Stirling continues to write well, when he writes.  But it's like he got really, really tired at the end of the book.  He needs to collaborate more with Robert Jordan, whose Wheel of Time series is now at an agonizing 12 books and counting.  Jordan can't seem to summarize well.  Stirling does it too well.  It's odd too- there was no reason to wrap everything up as quickly as he did.  Much is left unexplained.  We are suddenly shuttling back and forth between people and places, and you barely know what is going on.  Everything finishes up far too quickly- and unsatisfyingly.  After reading for about 1500 pages, you want a dramatic ending, where justice is met, where questions are answered face to face.  This is not the ending.  I must admit, I thought it was a dream sequence as I was first reading it, it was so bad.  It's like the ending of European movies, where nothing is fully resolved.<br /><br />Additionally, there is the problem that has regularly plagued this series continues in this book- Stirling can't seem to resist depicting aberrant sexual activity in exquisite detail.<br /><br />Lastly, Christian groups are portrayed in a very sad way- Christianity continues 1000 years before Christ, but it is a violent expression, knowing nothing of the life of Jesus as a man of peace (Quakers are mentioned in passing only once in the trilogy, as not participating with other Christians), and focused inexplicably on the holy trinity of father, son, and his mother.  But perhaps this is an expression of what Christianity might become, if only the death of Christ was known, and not his life.	2004-09-25
US	51761391	R264L162NAPTGJ	0451457439	791568967	Against the Tide of Years	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	It's the 2nd of a Trilogy	As with the previous book in the series, intriguing and well written.  A bit of a Return of the Jedi bit here- things don't finish in this novel (unlike the first one), and not everything is going well for the heroes at the end of the book.  You have to have the 3rd in the trilogy at the ready.  Stirling again makes you interested in the characters and their lives.  He balances many different plotlines and characters very neatly.  His research is precise and accurate.  And he provides a lot of anthropology and cultural development- not just battles and action.  I recommend this book for those who have started the series, for they won't be disappointed.  I recommend this series for those who've not yet started it, as it is excellent alternative history.<br /><br />Some minor drawbacks:  the time schema is confusing.  At the beginning of every chapter are a number of dates, with months and years, some in parenthesis, and I couldn't really figure out what the author was trying to communicate with this.  Also for some strange reason there's no Israel.  Although history indicates at this time that Gideon is judge of Israel, for some reason Stirling has decided that Moses is just about now leaving Egypt.  But since the entire Middle East is thrown into turmoil in this book, perhaps that whole event doesn't happen, including the Jewish nation, the oppression by the Romans, Jesus . . .  Lastly, the book is less recommendable due to a number of rather strange, highly aberrant gratuitous sex scenes.	2004-09-11
US	51761391	R3KU1ME7MTUPPE	0451456750	739185427	Island in the Sea of Time	Books	4	56	61	N	Y	Very Enjoyable	Engrossing and fun to read.  Stirling's style puts you in the story with the characters, as if this were truly happening.  There are a number of alternative history/time-travel stories out there in which there is a lot of fighting, a lot of action and adventure, a lot of moments of surprise at the new people's amazing technology.  But they take little advantage of the opportunity to explore new cultures and the clashes of people groups.  Such is no the case with Stirling.  He has long segments where he focuses on nothing but anthropology- and how to learn languages, and cultures, and respect of people groups, and the interactions of subcultures within Nantucket Island . . . This is what makes interesting reading.  People that we can relate to, people that we want to be with, if we were to be thrown back 3000 years in time.  Stirling seems to have copiously researched his cultures, time periods, and technology, in order to make everything appear as realistic as possible.<br /><br />Stirling well balances out the need for the good guys to succeed with the need for drama, risk, and tragedy.  It is not a morose book with no hope; it is not a surface book with no hope for despair.  It is a very good read.<br /><br />A bit less recommendable than it would be otherwise do to a number of rather strange, highly aberrant gratuitous sex scenes.	2004-09-10
US	51761391	RO8S618QVQYMB	0802814956	39631474	The Lion of Judah in Never-Never Land: The Theology of C. S. Lewis Expressed in His Fantasies for Children	Books	2	3	5	N	Y	Water is Powerful Wet Stuff	I appreciated everything that Lindskoog said in this book.  I agreed with it all.  But unfortunately, she doesn't really say anything that deep or interesting.  This book was originally a college thesis that she sent to Lewis for his review, and it reads like that- an undergraduate thesis.  She looks at all the Narnian books as a whole, comes up with some analysis and thoughts, and compares it to some select books and other authors.  It was nothing that most well-read readers of Lewis would not have seen before.  Her analysis is true, but fairly shallow.  It doesn't really grapple with Lewis' issues, and is certainly not a critical analysis- it accepts wholesale what Lewis says, and in some ways is very much like a book report.  It reminded me of the invisible one-footed dwarfs of [[ASIN:0064471071 The Dawn Treader]], saying, \\"Yup, that water is powerful wet stuff.\\"  It is wet, that's true.  But that didn't tell me anything new about water that I didn't already know.<br /><br />It's interesting that the forward to this book is by Hooper, the self-appointed posthumous editor and collector and rewriter of many of Lewis' works, whom Lindskoog successfully debunks as a fraud in her later work, Light in the Shadowlands.  It would seem that their relationship evolved over time.<br /><br />This is not a great work to give an overarching Narnian theology.  I'm still searching for such for myself.  This may be helpful for a teen-ager to read as they explore the theology of Narnia, but not for a higher level.	2004-08-16
US	51761391	R3A8QAWQ02JTLG	1561310239	125558391	Slavery in the Arab World	Books	3	29	31	N	Y	An Important First Broadside	This book had some very helpful information, and very surprising information, which I was delighted to learn.  Unfortunately, I didn't learn as much as I would have liked because of the writing style.<br /><br />This is honestly in part due to translation, which Gordon can't be blamed for.  There were parts of the book where one could tell that there was an obvious translation error from the French, where the word or phrase wasn't used quite the correct way it is supposed to be used in English.  However, numerous times Gordon also contradicts his own thoughts, making for confusing reading.  As he himself admits, much of the research itself is contradictory, but he could have done a better job of weeding through the research, and his editor a better job of clearing up contradictions before publication.<br /><br />I still recommend this, because it is such important information, and there is so little out there.  This book should be seen as important first broadside in understanding an important part of our history.  There was so much information here that I had never before known.  I had no idea the slave trade continued across Sahara until 1920's, and slavery still allowed in the Middle East until 1970's.  Gordon gives amazing details on the horrible atrocities committed under this institution, like emasculation of children.  His scholarship is quite good- he rightly faults past researchers who were so against slavery that they made the problem bigger than it was.  So, for instance, Gordon shows how the emasculation death rate of 99% is exaggerated by far, it being closer to only a 90% death rate.<br /><br />It is interesting that most of the slavery under Islamic rule was household help and concubines, leading to very few field workers in the history of Arab Islamic slavery, the opposite of the Trans-Atlantic slave trade.  This also made women more expensive than all men, except for eunuchs.  Gordon rightfully shows that though Islamic slavery lasted far longer than the Atlantic slave trade, some 1000 years, it was generally kinder, with slaves usually treated more as family members- although certainly not always.  It is after all an evil institution.  And though whites were often enslaved as well, there was definite racism with blacks being considered inferior slaves, doing harder work, and in the end, the only slaves.<br /><br />And I had no idea that there were benefits to colonialism.  For, since slavery is approved in Qur'an and by Mohammed (pbuh), it was a long-established practice that no Islamic country was willing to remove on it's own.  There was no indigenous anti-slavery movement that grew up as did in the West, such as the Anti-Slavery Society or among the Quakers.  It was only through the pressure of the European countries, through colonialism and then subsequently economic pressure, that finally convinced every Islamic country in the world (with the exception of Mauritania) to finally officially give up slavery.nger than the Atlantic slave trade, some 1000 years, it was generally kinder, with slaves usually treated more as family members- although certainly not always.  It is after all an evil institution.  And though whites were often enslaved as well, there was definite racism with blacks being considered inferior slaves, doing harder work, and in the end, the only slaves.   <br /> <br />And I had no idea that there were benefits to colonialism.  For, since slavery is approved in Qur'an and by Mohammed (pbuh), it was a long-established practice that no Islamic country was willing to remove on it's own.  There was no indigenous anti-slavery movement that grew up as did in the West, such as the Anti-Slavery Society or among the Quakers.  It was only through the pressure of the European countries, through colonialism and then subsequently economic pressure, that finally convinced every Islamic country in the world (with the exception of Mauritania) to finally officially give up slavery.	2004-08-11
US	51761391	RNCNA54TALYLU	0449211827	395182601	Plague Dogs	Books	5	21	24	N	Y	A Reet Fine Blazer	I didn't like this book at first. I put it down after about 70 pages and couldn't read anymore, and gave it two stars on my personal list. Nothing against the book. I just couldn't understand it. I'm an American, and the dialect the dogs were talking was really hard to understand- and I hadn't even gotten to the fox speaking Geordi. And one of the dogs was insane! It was too difficult to follow along as to what was going on.<br /><br /> A year later I picked it up again, and decided to give it another go, and plow through. Glad am I I did. Yes, the dialect is hard for Americans, especially the Geordi, which is the hardest English dialect for Americans to understand. And this edition is even dumbed down for Americans! But it's worth it to get through it. This was an amazing story, and once into it, I was enthralled. Adams paints beautiful images with his words, where you see clearly the Lake Country, though never having been there. Slowly you start to really care about the dogs, and experience life through their eyes. One wonders if perhaps Adams spent some time as a dog previously, after being a rabbit, for he writes so realistically from the canine perspective.<br /><br /> This book is not for the squeamish. The atrocities of animal experimentation are vividly described, as are a number of deaths, and worse. There were a number of times when I was shocked at the turn of the story, and realized that now this story was quite different from what I had up till then read. But this too, is part of the story- &quot;It's a hard life for an animal.&quot;<br /><br /> There's definitely a message here. A few of them actually: the attitude of the press; the treatment of dogs by humanity; and the treatment of humans by each other. For Adams also writes very convincing human characters. These are the true inner-workings of the human mind. His style is somewhat breezy, Dear-Readerish, but not off-putting or pretentious. Rather, Adams creates an atmosphere where we feel comfortable to be in dialogue with him, at the same time eager to read the life of the dogs.l comfortable to be in dialogue with him, at the same time eager to read the life of the dogs.	2004-08-05
US	51761391	R2FO5GSAOKBEFB	0586071105	834333861	Foundation and Earth	Books	2	9	19	N	N	It's Not Real	I thought [[ASIN:0553293389 Foundation's Edge]] was vaguely depressing. This is worse. Increasingly there are levels of psychic control, and like the Aes Sedai of the never-ending Wheel of Time, those that think they are all-powerful find another above them with more power. But Asimov does all he can to exclude the possibility of a supernatural power that is above it all. Everything is always deeply materialistically and scientifically explainable. All events, whether by Gaians or 2nd Foundationers or robots- originally stem from something that humanity has created, or which has evolved through natural selection within humanity. Nothing is numinous, and beyond the thoughts and understanding of humanity. And ultimately, this creates a very depressing outlook of the world. Real life is more interesting. Real life is more exciting.<br /><br />It's annoying too, when the twist at the end of the previous novel, Foundation's Edge, turns out to be only in the protagonist's perception, and not actually reality. I feel cheated, and tricked. And then, when other mysteries are added on, I find finally that not all the mysteries are answered, and now never will be- indeed, major questions remain at the end of this book. This is a major mistake within the genre- creating castles that lack foundation.<br /><br />I remember now why I don't like Asimov. He shows us a place without hope. I don't like to be depressed after reading a book. I simply have to remember that Asimov's thoughts are divorced from reality.	2004-08-03
US	51761391	R10P33GWKACTR0	0553293389	59623677	Foundation's Edge (Foundation Novels)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	OK, not Exciting	I thought this would be interesting as I remember reading one of the original Foundation novels.  This would reveal more of what psychohistory is all about.  And plus, a search for earth- I enjoy that kind of SciFi novel.  But this was more a search for other things, and focusing on the two characters, Trevize and Pelorat, rather than philosophy.  It was entertaining.  It had a good plot that moved forward.  It's just not exciting.  Perhaps it's Asimov's attempt to create a universe completely void of the supernatural and the numinous.  Everything is explained.  There is control from outside- but the main character sees it as negative.  And the control is always explainable as a natural force- not as something beyond the ken of all humanity.  This leads to a somewhat depressing feeling as you delve into this manufactured universe.  The final few pages give an interesting turn, unexpected.  But this too, is somewhat sad, not uplifting.  When the real world is more exciting and hopeful than a science fiction novel, something is wrong.<br /><br />But I really did enjoy the concept of communal life envisioned in part of the book.  That we are more than one thing, that we are part of a group.  That the individual is not as important as we often believe them to be.  Here Asimov improves, and does a very good job of understanding how a collectivist person sees reality- for there are many people on this earth in kinship societies who feel just the way those in the group society feel.	2004-08-03
US	51761391	R1WN6A3LVDV2LB	0880016884	139149747	Hideous Kinky: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Morocco, as a Child	I first saw this as the movie, and then ran into it in a bookshop in Morocco. It's a very different story than the movie. More intense, less Hollywood, and more effectively the story of a child, rather than the story of Kate Winslet, movie star.<br /><br />The story therefore is a bit hard to follow, as it's the perspective of a six-year old. But once you relax into that persona, Freud writes amazingly well from the perspective of a six-year old. I would imagine a child traveling through Morocco as her mother looks for money and spiritual guidance would react and feel exactly this way. The initial story about the mother's friend who is sick seems tangential- but then, the point is the perspectives of a child.<br /><br />Living here in Morocco, I can also attest that Freud has hit the country and culture spot on. She accurately describes the bilad, the country, and Marraksh, and the border entry. For those looking for a story to reveal the true Morocco, from a Westerner's perspective, this is one of the better books out there.<br /><br />This is a beautiful story of awareness, of the wants and needs, of being a child.  For a moment, as you read this book, you too may become as one, seeing everything with the needs of the moment, and the desires of the heart.	2004-08-03
US	51761391	R21LIKT3U21AL	0345388526	512051457	In the Balance: An Alternate History of the Second World War (Worldwar, Volume 1)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Just One Change	I don't always like Turtledove- he can be long-winded at times.  But this one I did enjoy.  I believe science fiction is best when it only minimally changes reality- you get one or two allowances for impossible things, and then work from there.  This is what Turtledove does- assume WWII, and assume alien invaders at that time.  Both are possible- it just didn't happen.  And the neat addition- the alien invaders aren't really that advanced.  In fact, if they were to have arrived when we humans were another 50 years advanced, they'd be technologically inferior.<br /><br />But they don't, and thus the conflict of the story.  Turtledove writes the characters quite well, and I remained interested in all of them.  You feel the real emotions of these characters; you want to see what they will do next; you understand why they respond to these problems because part of you would respond the same way.  Sometimes you see a long list of characters at the beginning of a novel (such as War and Peace or the never-ending Wheel of Time series), and you think, \\"Oh, no- I'll never be able to keep them all straight!\\"  In this case, each character is clear, distinct, and easily remembered.  Thus Turtledove pulls us from the Russian steppes to Nazi Germany to alien space craft to the radar detectors of Britian and the battlefields of Chicago- and we eagerly follow along to see how next the world can stem off invasion.  Or participate with it.	2004-08-03
US	51761391	R38LXVK3V1T743	0553269216	359217730	Rainbow Valley (Anne of Green Gables, No. 7)	Books	4	22	23	N	N	It's hard to stop laughing	I was disappointed with the previous segment of the series, so I was not expecting much from Rainbow Valley.  Indeed, I put off reading it for a year.  I'm sorry now that I did so.<br /><br />Montgomery returns to the magic and lyricism of the beginning of the Green Gable series.  But she does it by leaving Anne.  There is only a little about Anne's family, and hardly anything about Anne herself in this book.  It is mostly about another family, that of John Meredith, the minister, a widower.  By telling the story of this family, and an orphan they befriend, we see some angst in life, some troubles.  Which was exactly the problem with the story of Anne's family.  She went through many troubles as a girl, but as a mature mother, she had everything perfect.  The family was perfect.  The marriage was perfect.  And it was all quite boring.  This is why they don't write about perfect people in the adventure stories that Anne loves.  But the Merediths do not have a perfect life, and the troubles they experience, and how they attempt to resolve them, create spice.<br /><br />These are very believable characters created by Montgomery, and a believable small town focused continually on gossip.  It is one of the rare books that does not portray a minister and his family as evil, nor as perfect, but simply as real- perhaps because the book was written in 1919.  How the children of the family respond to an emotionally absent father is intriguing, and Faith Meredith's actions the most interesting of them all.  I read this on the train from Casablanca to Tangier, and the Moroccans in the train car with me gave me many strange looks as I could not stop laughing uproariously at Faith's actions, nor explain to them what was so amazingly funny.	2004-08-03
US	51761391	R184KQBQNIEQCW	038073043X	128093502	Crime Zero: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Chilling	Especially that last line.<br /><br />I picked this up because I was thirsting for some science fiction, and there was pretty slim pickings in the library.  I wasn't expecting much.  I was glad to be disappointed.<br /><br />Cordy writes convincing characters, interweaving future science possibilities with practical life. But the best part of the novel is dealing with the philosophical issues of predestination and Arminianism, nature vs. nurture. The best of science fiction causes us to think beyond our paradigms, and this is no exception. To what extent do criminals, or any of us, choose our errors? Even when we do not choose, are we still responsible? It would be easy to simply bring up these issues through dialogue between the characters. Instead, Cordy discusses the issues through the characters' lives, and the plot of the book.<br /><br />I strongly recommend you have snacks and drinks already prepared before beginning the book. I was unable to put it down after I began.  Cordy provides the realism of science and the fantasy of the genre to weave a tale that encompasses the reader's reality, if only for a few hours.	2004-08-02
US	51761391	R225RC941WU9TF	0385475772	772348994	Nine Parts of Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women	Books	5	86	92	N	Y	The Experience of Our Sisters	This is an exquisitely written book. Brooks has great talent for pulling the reader into the mind of the people she tells about, and especially, I found as a man, pulling you into the minds and lives of women. I found myself empathizing with the women in ways that only real life can provide. It is amazing what Brooks has experienced, but it is far more amazing what the women she tells of have experienced.<br /><br />Brooks writes honestly and directly about the good and bad of Islam, and how it influences women. She doesn't pull any punches, but also is not writing to denigrate, as she finds aspects of official and folk Islam that both hurt and assist women. She speaks of the positive attitude Islam has towards sexuality, being largely uncorrupted by the Greek dualism that invaded later Christianity, so that, within marriage, Muslims are encouraged to celebrate the gift of God in sex. Indeed, this provides the title of the book, as Ali, the 4th Khalifa, speaks of how sexual desire is 1/10th the man's, and 9/10ths the woman's. Of course, this provides later motive to sequester women, put them in hijab, and restrict them, so that the \\"ever-devouring vagina\\", as later Islamic jurists speak of, does not overcome the men around them.<br /><br />Since Brooks relies primarily on her experiences, with what she's seen with her own eyes and heard with her own ears, she is hard to argue with. This is the plight of many women in the Muslim world. But lest we think these are limited experiences of one Western woman talking with a few Arab and Persian women scattered in a few countries, Brooks has also done extensive research to intersperse between her stories- relying on the Qur'an, Hadith, Ijtihad, and Muslim history. But mostly she relies on women's experiences- for, let's be honest, the perspective of women is largely missing from the official sources, as it is in most religions- with notable exceptions like the wonderful hadiths of Aisha. Most of which were discarded by early Islamic jurists, as Brooks points out.<br /><br />One regret, is that there is not more here about the countries of North Africa, particularly, Morocco, with the exception of one paragraph paying tribute to that great Moroccan feminist, Fatima Mernissi. But of course, this book is about Brooks' experiences, not a research text, and her journalistic experience was much more centered on the Middle East.<br /><br />I found one of Brooks' most powerful arguments to be on issues like FGM, Female Genital Mutilation. She shares how Muslims say it's not authorized or encouraged in the Qur'an. How it's not only Muslims who do it, but some African Christians. I've hear this many times before myself. They're quite right. But Brooks brings up the sapient question- why isn't there more spoken against it from the minbar? Why are 20% of Muslim women in areas where this is practiced? If Islam is a religion that supports women, or if there are at least some aspects of it that are positive towards women (as I believe there are), why isn't there more said publicly about the plight of women, on many issues, to change things, to encourage women's emancipation, using the wealth of resources? Why is [[ASIN:0201632217 Mernissi]] such a lone worker in the night?sts, as Brooks points out.     One regret, is that there is not more here about the countries of North Africa, particularly, Morocco, with the exception of one paragraph paying tribute to that great Moroccan feminist, Fatima Mernissi. But of course, this book is about Brooks' experiences, not a research text, and her journalistic experience was much more centered on the Middle East.     I found one of Brooks' most powerful arguments to be on issues like FGM, Female Genital Mutilation. She shares how Muslims say it's not authorized or encouraged in the Qur'an. How it's not only Muslims who do it, but some African Christians. I've hear this many times before myself. They're quite right. But Brooks brings up the sapient question- why isn't there more spoken against it from the minbar? Why are 20% of Muslim women in areas where this is practiced? If Islam is a religion that supports women, or if there are at least some aspects of it that are positive towards women (as I believe there are), why isn't there more said publicly about the plight of women, on many issues, to change things, to encourage women's emancipation, using the wealth of resources? Why is [[ASIN:0201632217 Mernissi]] such a lone worker in the night?	2004-08-02
US	51761391	R1JP78RR5Y35J1	1570751625	928502827	A History of Christianity in Asia: Beginnings to 1500	Books	5	68	68	N	Y	Last night I dreamt I was a great Khan...	Last night I dreamt that I was a Great Khan, deciding who the next Nestorian Archbishops would be in the four sections of the empire...<br /><br />There are few non-fiction books good enough to invade my dreams.  This is one of them.  I was pulled into the book and found it difficult to put down.  Moffett writes in a very readable, engrossing style, but full of research and incredibly accurate.  Unlike other treatments of this subject, Moffett is not trying to put forth a particular ideology or accept wholesale hagiography.  While he respects the traditions of some about the formations of the early church, he analyzes these traditions critically to see what might be reality and what might be more myth.<br /><br />It is rare to find a book on the Nestorian Church, this, perhaps the largest church in the world in the first 1000 years of Christianity, containing at least 20% of all Christians- all East of Antioch.  Because many still consider their beliefs heretical (although most scholars now agree that the differences in understanding of the nature/s of Christ were more linguistic than theological), many theologians avoid this church, or don't even know of its existence.  I grew up being taught there were Protestants and some Catholics. That was it.  It wasn't till much later I learned there were Orthodox, and two varieties, as well as The Church of the East, the Nestorians.  But when a writer does touch this subject, it is often very a very dry, terse history, that makes one want to rather fall asleep.<br /><br />Moffett takes a different approach.  He spent the time to do his research, as copious endnotes and sources indicate.  He spent the time to contemplate the lives which he was writing about.  And that's what makes this book different.  He's writing about lives.  It's exciting.  He writes about the missions endeavors of this early church, how they spread throughout known Asia: to the Caucuses, central Asia, Arabia, Yemen, Suqutra, India, China, SE Asia, and maybe even Japan.  He writes honestly about their successes and failures- why they expanded, and why they declined.  Much of their approach was laudable, in their desire to contextualize.  Some tragically hurt them in the end, in their repeated attempts to get close to the state, they sacrificed not necessarily ethics but their foremost mission for the sake of temporary security.  And when the state fell, as all states do, the new state did not look with favor on those that were so closely tied with the old state.  And the overall goal, of being a people called out to be different, an alien people, became lost in a struggle for survival.  Ironically, in the attempt to survive, they spelled their own doom- so that today they only exist in isolated pockets in India, Kurdistan, and America, where the Patriarchate is.<br /><br />Two minor issues that I would recommend to improve this book.  There are many helpful references to the endnotes.  However, much of the endnotes are simply source sites.  It would be helpful to differentiate these.  Also, because much of the book refers to unfamiliar place names, it would be helpful to include more detailed maps, changing as the years change, and not placed at the beginning of the book, but rather next to whatever text it is that is referring to the map.  I spent a lot of time referring back to a random town in the maps, and trying to find where it was located.<br /><br />This is a definite must for anyone interested in the Eastern churches, and the Church of the East.  But I think all Christians should be aware of this church that was so formative in our history, to see how Christianity was really, in the first 12 centuries, an Asian religion before it was European.  Though now the majority of Christians live outside the Western world, many forget that the narrowing of Christianity to Europe was only a temporary period in history.es honestly about their successes and failures- why they expanded, and why they declined.  Much of their approach was laudable, in their desire to contextualize.  Some tragically hurt them in the end, in their repeated attempts to get close to the state, they sacrificed not necessarily ethics but their foremost mission for the sake of temporary security.  And when the state fell, as all states do, the new state did not look with favor on those that were so closely tied with the old state.  And the overall goal, of being a people called out to be different, an alien people, became lost in a struggle for survival.  Ironically, in the attempt to survive, they spelled their own doom- so that today they only exist in isolated pockets in India, Kurdistan, and America, where the Patriarchate is.    Two minor issues that I would recommend to improve this book.  There are many helpful references to the endnotes.  However, much of the endnotes are simply source sites.  It would be helpful to differentiate these.  Also, because much of the book refers to unfamiliar place names, it would be helpful to include more detailed maps, changing as the years change, and not placed at the beginning of the book, but rather next to whatever text it is that is referring to the map.  I spent a lot of time referring back to a random town in the maps, and trying to find where it was located.    This is a definite must for anyone interested in the Eastern churches, and the Church of the East.  But I think all Christians should be aware of this church that was so formative in our history, to see how Christianity was really, in the first 12 centuries, an Asian religion before it was European.  Though now the majority of Christians live outside the Western world, many forget that the narrowing of Christianity to Europe was only a temporary period in history.	2004-07-20
US	51761391	RHGP138T9DZLW	0827242328	147352596	What the Bible Really Says About Love, Marriage, and Family	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	The Bible is rather...Shocking.	His first book, [[ASIN:0060610638 What Paul Really Said About Women]], changed my life, so when I heard he had written another, I was eager to check it out.  Although not as redemptive and indwelling as his first, it's still a 5-star read.<br /><br />As the title suggests, here Bristow takes a broader look at gender dynamics, from the Old and New Testament.  This includes investigating sex, treatment and male thoughts on women, different models of marriage and Biblical treatment of divorce, and Jesus' thoughts on family.  Throughout the text Bristow seeks to reveal what the author was originally saying, and what the audience was originally hearing, to pursue eisogesis and avoid exegesis.  He looks for what is surprising and what may be even shocking for Christians and himself to read, arguing that the Bible is usually a counter-cultural work, and the original books were written because they needed to be written- i.e. the people they were written for did not inherently believe what the text said; there was a need for the text.<br /><br />So Bristow discusses the Biblical model of marriage.  Which of course is not one model, but at least seven, overlapping models.  And if we want a Biblical marriage, it could easily mean a first date involving a servant going off to offer camels for the woman or unveiling the man's genitalia on a threshing floor.  After that, it might mean marrying one's half-sister, as Abraham did, marrying because the guy is wealthy and the woman has a big dowry, having a few wives, plus some concubines, and the man having absolute authority over the woman.  All of these are models of marriage in the Old Testament, that are not actually denigrated in the text, but rather accepted as part of the culture.<br /><br />But they're not praised or encouraged by the texts either.  There are only two models that God himself put in place- one that follows the curse, and the other that existed before the fall.  And amazingly, while most American churches would not actually advocate following patriarchal law where the husband had absolute authority over his wife and could even abrogate her vows, most churches argue for a model of marriage based on the curse.  It is as if Christ did not come, and no grace is present, and the curse continues to reign- at least within marriage.  Therefore Bristow describes the hope we can have for peace in a marriage, by following the guidelines of Genesis 2 before the fall, and those of Jesus in his treatment of women.<br /><br />Bristow usually looks at culture, but also at the original Greek and Hebrew, to get at what the text originally said, before the misogynism of early church fathers cast the texts in a different light.  So the word for \\"one flesh\\" denotes the entire being- and therefore, a healthy marriage should be pursuing the idea of becoming one being- although not one spirit.  Therefore the feelings of the other become as one's own feelings, but without the couple having the same personality.  And since they are one flesh, it makes no sense to decide who is in charge, for how can you divide up the flesh like that?<br /><br />Lust is a matter of looking at a woman or a man with the intentional purpose of possessing her or him- not simply admiring- at least, in the Greek Jesus uses.  If we are God's temple, then not only should we avoid denigrating that temple with aberrant sexual practices, but it also follows that correct sexual practices can be themselves a form of worship to God.  Typical of Jesus' teaching, this makes having a healthy marriage much less a matter of legality and much more difficult- for sexual sin then becomes anything which is a \\"violation of the intended purpose and nature of one's sexuality: to affirm a marriage covenant and to glorify God.\\"<br /><br />In the realm of non-marital gender relationships, Bristow shows how Jesus actions towards women were completely wrong in the culture, as not only did he talk to women, he even taught them; not only did he touch women outside his family, he touched prostitutes, and even encouraged it!<br /><br />After each section Bristow uses questions to encourage the reader to think more, and to create cognitive dissonance when compared with standard Christian approaches to these books.  And that is the key to Bristow's style.  He is not writing to offend or to try to simply give shocking ideas- but he recognizes that the Gospel is inherently shocking, as much to today's society as it was to the 1st century Palestinian.  And he is unwilling to pull punches in looking at what the Bible truly says.  If you want to read something comfortable which will affirm beliefs already present, try something like I Kissed Dating Goodbye.  Read this book only if you're willing to have your preconceptions challenged, and your world turned upside-down.utes, and even encouraged it!      After each section Bristow uses questions to encourage the reader to think more, and to create cognitive dissonance when compared with standard Christian approaches to these books.  And that is the key to Bristow's style.  He is not writing to offend or to try to simply give shocking ideas- but he recognizes that the Gospel is inherently shocking, as much to today's society as it was to the 1st century Palestinian.  And he is unwilling to pull punches in looking at what the Bible truly says.  If you want to read something comfortable which will affirm beliefs already present, try something like I Kissed Dating Goodbye.  Read this book only if you're willing to have your preconceptions challenged, and your world turned upside-down.	2004-07-04
US	51761391	RTEFHEEMPML0I	0892830719	94706762	St. Francis of Assisi: A Biography	Books	3	26	42	N	Y	Francis I love, but I'd love more a more accurate biography	It is with fear and trembling that I attempt this review.  I dearly love St. Francis.  My favorite movie is of his life, Brother Sun Sister Moon.  Much of what my family and people group did and lived was based on his life.  But I found this, supposedly the definitive biography of Francis, a rather unhelpful work.<br /><br />Englebert does give a lot of details into Francis' life- and give a much more accurate picture of him than the movie.  I came to understand more for the first time how all the events and random stories I had hear fit together.  I found, again, Francis to be inspiring in his example, encouraging me into Holy Sister Poverty, and pursuing humility, and serving others.  I especially enjoyed his search for Joy.  This was not an attempt to reach poverty out of duty, or even simply social justice- good desires in themselves.  Rather, it was for perhaps the highest of motives- to know the Joy of Christ, to be in love with Him, to be served by Him.  And Francis found, realized, that this could be found most fully in Poverty.<br /><br />But perhaps it is Englebert's approach which somewhat spoils the reading.  He writes about Francis as if Francis were a saint- which of course he is, in both the Catholic and Protestant senses.  But he seems to take everything that is believed about Francis- everything that the Roman Church says is true, and simply accept it, without winnowing out the legends.  Englebert *is* stating at times that some stories have less authenticity than others.  But even with this caveat, much of what he shares seems to be swallowed wholesale without reservation.  I don't refer to the miraculous or the stigmata of course- there is every reason to believe that such events happened through Francis.  But rather, the tone of the miraculous, and other stories, is of an other-worldly man, almost docetic.  This leads to acceptance of everything Francis taught and did as righteous.<br /><br />But I found that, with this approach, as I read a 20th century biography of a 13th century man through 21st century eyes, I was less inclined than previously to see all that Francis did as morally upright.  Certainly Francis' intentions were pure.  But I found Englebert's uncompromising support of Francis encouraged me to question some of Francis' practices as actually all that helpful- such as a continual debasement of himself, without seeing more of the God in himself.  Or love of fire, which compromised some of his concern for the environment.  Or pursuing poverty to such an extent that he couldn't abound in some gifts that came his way- as both Paul and Jesus were willing to do, when the sat down at rich men's houses.  None of this detracts from the holiness of Francis.  Some of his beliefs were right for his time, and historical anachronism should not be practiced and it be expected that he know certain things back in the 13th century.  He was, I still believe, the person most close to Christ since Christ.  But he was also not Christ.<br /><br />All this I see more clearly because of Englebert's approach, canonizing a person who was an exceedingly exceptional man, but still a man.  And I really believe that Francis would have really not liked such a description of himself.  He would have preferred something honest, something authentic, and something quite normal, ordinary, and humble.  I'm still looking for an biography of this saint that would be something like that.century biography of a 13th century man through 21st century eyes, I was less inclined than previously to see all that Francis did as morally upright.  Certainly Francis' intentions were pure.  But I found Englebert's uncompromising support of Francis encouraged me to question some of Francis' practices as actually all that helpful- such as a continual debasement of himself, without seeing more of the God in himself.  Or love of fire, which compromised some of his concern for the environment.  Or pursuing poverty to such an extent that he couldn't abound in some gifts that came his way- as both Paul and Jesus were willing to do, when the sat down at rich men's houses.  None of this detracts from the holiness of Francis.  Some of his beliefs were right for his time, and historical anachronism should not be practiced and it be expected that he know certain things back in the 13th century.  He was, I still believe, the person most close to Christ since Christ.  But he was also not Christ.<br /><br />All this I see more clearly because of Englebert's approach, canonizing a person who was an exceedingly exceptional man, but still a man.  And I really believe that Francis would have really not liked such a description of himself.  He would have preferred something honest, something authentic, and something quite normal, ordinary, and humble.  I'm still looking for an biography of this saint that would be something like that.	2004-06-30
US	51761391	R3LP6DTVL6EABR	0743471555	615518822	1633 (Ring of Fire)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of the Best Alternatives Around	Flint &amp; Weber write an engrossing story with convincingly real characters and surprising plot twists.  This book is more of an incomplete series than the first book, and purposely  so.  It really is incomplete without the next chapter, 1634.  There are a lot of characters to follow, but Flint &amp; Weber manage to keep track of everyone, and keep the readers' interest.  Happily, there is not only military action in this edition, but also character discussion on the nature of predestination and Arminianism, raising intriguing possibilities on the nature of God's work with the world, especially in a multiverse.  This philosophical quandary is often ignored in fiction works that deal with multiverses.  While it would be nice if more time were spent on the differences between the groups and the difficulties Americans would have in adjusting to the 16th century, the brief look at cultural differences between 20th century Americans and 16th century Europeans helps to create more rounded characters.  Still one of the best alternative history series I've yet read.	2004-06-30
US	51761391	R3NQNHVD4BLIE2	0671319728	290654926	1632 (Ring Of Fire)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very Good Science Fiction	Well, not so much science really.  The deus ex machina that pulls the characters into the past is weird, and from then on it reads as alternative history.  But this is one of the best alternative history reads I've had.  Flint writes far better than Turtledove, the alleged master of this genre.  The characters are real, they develop, and I'm gripped at nearly every moment.  The text isn't bogged down with historical details and trying to be accurate.  The author is rather more interested in telling a story.  The one drawback to the story is that there is *a lot* of violence.  Arguably, violence is necessary to fully show the awfulness of conditions in 17th Century Europe.  But some of the details could be avoided, and more time could be spent on non-violent life- or even non-violent action as possibilities.  That said, I was still really drawn in to the text, found it difficult to put the book down (finishing it in 2 days), had no idea what would happen next, and can't wait to get to the next book in the series.  Flint stays very true to their premise, and historical possibilities- if part of America showed up in 17th Century Europe, what would happen?	2004-06-23
US	51761391	R3HBGDL480TYQ7	0684835614	829672847	The Road Less Traveled and Beyond: Spiritual Growth in an Age of Anxiety	Books	4	46	47	N	N	Always learn.  Never give up.  Never surrender.	As one would expect from Scott Peck, I found this to be a very encouraging book.  Peck continues to write on suffering, and it's being the key to growth.  Most people avoid suffering for their whole lives, avoid growth, avoid looking at themselves.  I do that too.  This book encourage me to rethink aspects of my life, and consider ways I could pursue anew a path of suffering which leads to growth.<br /><br />I particularly enjoyed his treatisies on listening.  I've read some of his thoughts on this before, but I needed to be reminded.  About what it means to listen.  About how to listen better.  About how often I am thinking about what I am going to say next, and the impact I am having, and my interaction, rather than fully and completely engaging myself with the other, putting myself within the other, to bless the person I am communicating with.  And so I've been trying to do that these last few days.  And it's still hard work.<br /><br />Much of this book is written as the final hurrah of a life of contemplation.  His stories of his time with his wife are particularly beneficial, as Peck shares about what he has learned from his wife, and what they have learned together, as they have pursued a path of active growth together.<br /><br />A downside though to this approach of putting in a lifetime of thoughts into a final book is that many times, it seems that Peck is simply referencing every book, quite overtly, that he's ever written.  At times, it feels like he's trying to get the reader to buy more of his books.  A better editor to discourage him from this approach would have been helpful.<br /><br />I left this book wanting to follow Peck's suggestions.  To remember that life does not conform to myself, and release any expectation that it should.  To release the expectation that I can do all things for myself.  I appreciated Peck's corrective from The Road Less Traveled, where he gave great support for independence.  Here, Peck reminds people of a higher road of interdependence- which means a lot harder work of giving up one's \\"right\\" to do things for oneself.  It's all about a process of death- for we begin dying the moment we're born.  And every giving up is a form of death.lot harder work of giving up one's \\"right\\" to do things for oneself.  It's all about a process of death- for we begin dying the moment we're born.  And every giving up is a form of death.	2004-06-22
US	51761391	R2FTPNNFNHDKGS	0393322548	513752605	It Didn't Happen Here: Why Socialism Failed in the United States (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	6	21	N	Y	It Already Happened:  How Socialism Succeeded in the U.S.	Copiously footnoted and annotated, Marks and Lipset give a comprehensive description of why socialism failed in America.  I learned a lot more about the history of the US, and the nature of socialism.  Through comparison to the situation in other countries, the authors make a powerful case that it failed because of the mistakes within the Socialist Party- where it refused to compromise and work with other groups, including unions, in order to get closer to the desired goals.  Marks and Lipset also show how the nature of the American political system makes it more difficult for minority parties- although not impossible.  And they do a good job of proving that the nature of immigration and political repression weren't major forces keeping socialism from developing.  Other groups faced the same hurdles and were able to develop, in America and abroad.  What caused the downfall of socialism was a combination of factors, largely of their own making.<br /><br />But a major problem with the work is that the terms are defined too narrowly.  Socialism didn't fail.  It has succeeded, and continues to grow in America.  It is rather the Socialist Party which failed.  Lipset and Marks continuously refer to socialism and then talk only of the one party- even differentiating socialism from the Communist Party, the Green Party, the Peace and Freedom Party, and the New Deal.  While these are certainly separate groups, they all clearly also fall under the socialist umbrella.  And then there are times when the definition is expanded, especially in the first chapter on the uniqueness of America politics, and socialism as an ideal is discussed, rather than just the party.  One could easily imagine another book, with the same information, entitled \\"It Already Happened:  How Socialism Succeeded in the United States\\"- if it is recognized that the ideas are larger than the party called \\"The Socialist Party\\".<br /><br />It is also a shame that such short shrift is given to the African-American experience.  Although there are passing references to the lack of socialist involvement in the African-American community, nowhere do Lipset and Marks really address this as a substantial failing on the part of the Socialist Party, or socialism in general.  Although they show quite clearly that we are a relatively classist society, broken up on ethnic lines, we do have one huge significant class structure- stronger in the past, but still enduring.  It just happens to also dovetail with ethnicity.  African-Americans have been systematically debased throughout the history of our country.  Following Marx and Engel's philosophy, this would have been the natural group to target in the pursuit of socialism.  And though Marks and Lipset mention that socialists did not because of their own inherent racism, Marks and Lipset do not really give us enough research and information on this glaring failing.<br /><br />I would still heartedly recommend the book.  It gives a strong economic understanding of the history of the country as it pertains to socialism; how America is unique, and how it is not; and the failings and successes of socialism as theory and practice.  The strength of the research carries the book and outweighs those the theories that were not pursued enough.lthough there are passing references to the lack of socialist involvement in the African-American community, nowhere do Lipset and Marks really address this as a substantial failing on the part of the Socialist Party, or socialism in general.  Although they show quite clearly that we are a relatively classist society, broken up on ethnic lines, we do have one huge significant class structure- stronger in the past, but still enduring.  It just happens to also dovetail with ethnicity.  African-Americans have been systematically debased throughout the history of our country.  Following Marx and Engel's philosophy, this would have been the natural group to target in the pursuit of socialism.  And though Marks and Lipset mention that socialists did not because of their own inherent racism, Marks and Lipset do not really give us enough research and information on this glaring failing.    I would still heartedly recommend the book.  It gives a strong economic understanding of the history of the country as it pertains to socialism; how America is unique, and how it is not; and the failings and successes of socialism as theory and practice.  The strength of the research carries the book and outweighs those the theories that were not pursued enough.	2004-06-12
US	51761391	R1KFCOIMDZ3HV0	0312194331	464139995	After Man: A Zoology of the Future	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Beautiful *and* Intelligent	I've been sharing this book with my biology students as something to read when they're done with tests.  It is an excellent tool for grasping the foundations of evolution.  Dixon overviews the basics of evolutionary theory in clear and precise language at the beginning, and then provides amazingly beautiful (and in some cases, nightmarish) illustrations of what the future might hold for us.  Or rather, not for us, since he posits that our species dies out, which is admittedly a little depressing.  Similarly to Vonnegut's [[ASIN:0385333870 Galapagos]], Dixon hypothesizes that a large brain might not actually be an evolutionary advantage, but rather a disadvantage.  Through the disappearance of humanity he shows how our destruction of the environment is causing wholesale destruction of countless species, and causing damage to our own.  It is only when our species disappears, and the earth has 50 million years to recover, that evolution can continue again.<br /><br />I love the drawings, particular of naked Sandsharks that look like something from the spice worms of Dune, Striger cats that have prehensile tails and grasping paws, Predator Rats, Swimming Monkeys, the penguin become 12 meter whale-like plankton-eating Vortex, Slobbers who catch insects with their slobber, and look like a marsupial bundle of moss, and bipedal walking screaming 1.5m tall bats, the Night Stalkers.  Some of these ideas may sound outlandish- a good number of them certainly are.  But the best part is Dixon gives solid evolutionary theory for how each would evolve, dictated by a changing environment and the raw material of previous genetic code.  So we get classic island giganticism and the freedom of evolution on islands.  We get the foreseeable continual development of symbiosis between antelopes and tick birds, such that now the tick birds nest in a special dorsal cleft on the antelope.  And those animals that are the most successful today, such as the rodents, insectivores, and lagomorphs (especially rats and rabbits) are the ones with the greatest opportunity for diversity in the future.<br /><br />I would highly recommend this book for any student of evolution.  It's not fact; it's simply based on sound theory.  It's the best kind of science fiction, as it all could happen.  It's certainly fiction, but more than fiction, as it will help you contemplate the foundational truths of evolution.<br /><br />[[ASIN:0716734966 Future Evolution]]ly rats and rabbits) are the ones with the greatest opportunity for diversity in the future.    I would highly recommend this book for any student of evolution.  It's not fact; it's simply based on sound theory.  It's the best kind of science fiction, as it all could happen.  It's certainly fiction, but more than fiction, as it will help you contemplate the foundational truths of evolution.    [[ASIN:0716734966 Future Evolution]]	2004-06-09
US	51761391	R26BMCI2XJEDSQ	091756152X	760519181	Evolution: A Theory In Crisis	Books	1	68	103	N	N	Dated	This book is outdated. Even when it first came out in 1986 it was outdated. (And the new edition does little to correct this.) I was struck as I read the book that the arguments seemed somehow to be lacking in modern information. So I took a look at the sources, copiously listed in the endnotes of each chapter. And the overwhelming number of the sources date to the 60s and 70s, or even earlier. In fact, the average source date for Denton's cites was 1912! Admittedly, this includes original source dates that refer to The Origin of Species, and responding sources in the years afterward. But as one reads through the endnotes, you can't but be impressed by how even the scientific data that Denton is relying on is usually 20 years out of date- *from the time when this book was written*!<br /><br />Why is this an issue? After all, why would having old sources make a difference, if the arguments are sound? Because it claims to be a scientific text. And it is precisely in the area of science that discovery and information change and progress so rapidly. A scientific paper written ten years ago is usually passe- unless it was groundbreaking to begin with.<br /><br />This source problem is seen in a number of specific areas. When Denton wrote his work, there was no Human Genome Project- we hadn't even mapped the genetic code of a Nematode at that point! Having a complete map of the genetic code of an organism makes a big difference in understanding evolutionary theory. Chaos Theory was in its infancy, if present at all, and there was therefore no mathematical formulas to demonstrate how random events can have an underlying logical consistency allowing for progression. Or there was the old creationist argument of the problem with whale evolution, that there were no transitional fossils, and how illogical it was to claim that whales could evolve from hoofed hyena-like animals, when there were (admittedly) so many great changes that must occur in the organism. That is, until the 1990s, when we discovered every single transitional fossil in whale evolution, showing the complete progression from a land animal to the modern whale, giving us today one of the best fossil lineages in evolutionary theory.<br /><br />There are other serious problems with the book. Denton makes claims that were not true even in the 80s (or 60s), such as the lack of transitional fossils in general. He seems to focus on the lack of transitional fossils between classes, and then makes the claim that there is a mystical class boundary, denying evolution occurs *within* classes, and ignoring all the transitional fossils within classes. He conveniently ignores all the transitional fossils between different fish classes, reflecting his human terrestrial bias, probably lumping Petromyzone, Myxini, Chondrichthyes, and Osteichthyes as just \\"fish\\". He suggests that things are too improbable, making the argument of \\"irreducible complexity\\", that the cilia and flagella and bird's wing couldn't have evolved, citing a few sources from evolutionists to support his claim. In the process he ignores a lot of much more recent research which has found transitional forms, and discovered ways that these structures could have evolved. He makes strong arguments to imply that evolution only occurred because it satisfied the philosophical needs of the popular theories of Darwin's day and subsequently. He's probably right on that one. But he skips over how every theory ever believed is generally held true because it fulfills the philosophical ideas of the people of their day- including the belief in immediate divine creation.<br /><br />I appreciate that Denton came from a scientific perspective. But his arguments don't hold up. I firmly believe in the God of the Old and New Testament. I don't believe evolution is perfect in it's theory- it's still being worked on. It's simply the best theory we've got. And in the end, Denton does nothing to change that. At the end of his book Denton refers to how, throughout human history, a theory is believed until a new, better one comes along. Precisely. This is standard scientific method. And Denton doesn't guide us to an alternative; he gives nothing to indicate a new encompassing theory that might have half the evidence to support it that evolution currently does.<br /><br />If you want to read a book that explains ideas that are outdated from 15 years ago, 35 years ago, 100 years ago, and understand it as modern science, this is the book for you. Otherwise, I'd recommend [[ASIN:0345422775 Darwin's Ghost]], by Steve Jones, which updates Origin of a Species, and [[ASIN:0060930497 Finding Darwin's God]], by Kenneth Miller, which deals with the issues of Christian theology and evolution from an author who holds to both.<br /><br />(This review refers to the 1985 hard copy.)ry, a theory is believed until a new, better one comes along. Precisely. This is standard scientific method. And Denton doesn't guide us to an alternative; he gives nothing to indicate a new encompassing theory that might have half the evidence to support it that evolution currently does.     If you want to read a book that explains ideas that are outdated from 15 years ago, 35 years ago, 100 years ago, and understand it as modern science, this is the book for you. Otherwise, I'd recommend [[ASIN:0345422775 Darwin's Ghost]], by Steve Jones, which updates Origin of a Species, and [[ASIN:0060930497 Finding Darwin's God]], by Kenneth Miller, which deals with the issues of Christian theology and evolution from an author who holds to both.    (This review refers to the 1985 hard copy.)	2004-05-29
US	51761391	RP1JYBBDJBD71	0809138549	309046731	The God of Evolution: A Trinitarian Theology	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Why Didn't I Read This 10 Years Ago?	Wow.  Now this is the kind of evolutionary theory I'm talking about.  For me, I've gone through the process of rejecting literalism and non-allegoricalism for the first 10 chapters of Genesis.  I've gone through the acceptance of the scientific validity of evolution.  I've worked through ideas on how I can accept Biblical Truth from Genesis, and also evolution.  But I want to further clarify that in my mind, understand how both can be true.  This book significantly helps in that regard.<br />I found Edwards' understanding of the Trinity immensely helpful.  He writes that \\"'God' has no ontological content without communion.  Nothing is conceivable as existing only by itself.  There is no true being without communion.\\"  That is a conception I can relate to.  From this premise, Edwards explores how a communal Trinitarian God would create, patterning life after Themself, as a internetworking of communities.  And in my studies of biology, this is certainly what I see.  I have long accepted Bonhoeffer's idea that God is Trinity, for God is perfect, and perfect in all things.  He is therefore perfect in Love, and Love requires a lover and beloved.  But lest we say that God needed us, He needed to be perfect in Love long before He created anything- which means He needed to have a beloved and lover within Himself, hence the Trinity.  But then, how explain three, and not two?  Edwards answers this, discussing how perfect Love requires a lover, a beloved, and then sharing the love with each other, as they love another.  It is through evolutionary theory that we can better understand the Trinity; more than that, Trinitarian theology necessitates an evolutionary viewpoint.<br />From here Edwards looks at the way God limits Himself in creation, arguing from an Arminianist approach.  Not being Arminianist myself, I found these particular arguments less helpful.  But I did appreciate Edwards' discussion of how chance, natural selection, and imperfections are actually necessary in a perfect creation- for without random mutation, it would not be possible for an organism to perfectly adapt to new situations.  Hence the seeming imperfection is actually part of a perfectly formed creation.<br />One of the greatest quandaries in accepting an evolutionary position as well as a Biblical worldview is the problem of original sin.  Edwards does a wonderful job of illustrating how both philosophies blend.  Our genetic code is morally neutral, but allows for the opportunity of far greater violence and destruction when it is combined with our cognitive abilities and moral awareness- something very similar to the eating of the fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil.  Indeed, the argument could be made that the enigmatic aspects of that passage are greatly illuminated when understood within the developing awareness of our species.<br />In the last few chapters Edwards analyzes how we can understand the various facets of the Godhead through evolution.  How the Spirit has been present throughout creation, as has the Son, and their presences inherent within all of creation.  So therefore, we can look at any of our fellow creatures, and see that of God in them- not that they are God of course, but that God is present within them, as He is present everywhere.  Indeed, the Spirit and Wisdom become the motivating forces of all evolution, in a continuous creation that takes place at one time as one event.  (For is not God outside of time?)  Edwards comes from a Roman Catholic perspective, and so he displays the standard Western focus (neither good nor bad) on the Persons of the Trinity rather than the Unity of the Godhead- I found it helpful to consider what he said of the different parts of the Trinity as simply representative of all of the Trinity.<br />Throughout the text, I appreciate that Edwards presents not only his view, but that of many other theologians and biologists, along with a coherent synthesis of his beliefs on the matters.  This allowsme to follow his thinking, and also integrate aspects of other beliefs that might fall outside of Edwards' own.  I also liked his support for the understanding of God as not only male, but also female, relying strongly on scriptures for this support, such as showing the clear line of female Wisdom being the same as the male Jesus in the Bible and Patristic authors.  Edwards writes in a clear manner, but tremendously deep, illuminating, and encouraging.  I am grateful to God for finding this book, and having the chance to read Edwards, for I now feel that I have a much better grasp on the integration of evolution and Biblical theology.me to follow his thinking, and also integrate aspects of other beliefs that might fall outside of Edwards' own.  I also liked his support for the understanding of God as not only male, but also female, relying strongly on scriptures for this support, such as showing the clear line of female Wisdom being the same as the male Jesus in the Bible and Patristic authors.  Edwards writes in a clear manner, but tremendously deep, illuminating, and encouraging.  I am grateful to God for finding this book, and having the chance to read Edwards, for I now feel that I have a much better grasp on the integration of evolution and Biblical theology.	2004-05-24
US	51761391	R1AV9S2UICTIET	0944350534	292949864	A Living Faith: An Historical and Comparative Study of Quaker Beliefs, 2nd Edition	Books	5	61	61	N	N	Divine Light	How I wish there were more books like Cooper's.  I wish there was anything like Cooper's.  For the first time I found a book that could be called a systematic theology of Quaker beliefs.  And as I'm relatively new to the Friends, I still think systematically.  This book was incredibly helpful.  Cooper explores in detail Quaker understanding of the sacraments, God, Jesus, the Light, the church, testimonies (like commitment to Peace and Truth and Social Justice), and the end times.  And while I wish there was a more full investigation of some aspects like the Peace Testimony, this was a fully satisfying work.<br /><br />Much of the book covers what I already believe, and knew what Friends believe.  But it organized it in an understandable manner, helping me to more fully make sense of the disparate beliefs, within Friends, and within myself.  And some portions I had still never fully understood till I read the book.  For instance, Cooper's discussion of the sacred in all things, while I have heard it referred to in passing, I have never seen in so well explained, so clearly, so convincingly.<br /><br />The beauty of Cooper's treatment is that it's not just expository of Friend's beliefs.  He encourages us to become more, to change- not into something different, but to grow to become more fully Friends.  He gives a very balanced treatment of all friends, from different countries, and different persuasions- the more Hicksite, universalist Friends General Conference, and the more Christ-centered Friends United Meetings and (my own) Evangelical Friends International.  Cooper fully affirms that all are Friends, with different paths, and both shoots of the Quaker tree contain part of the original Truth of George Fox.<br /><br />I have never seen another book that is so easy to read and simultaneously so fully shows the beliefs of the Friends.<br /><br />[[ASIN:0944350569 Reasons for Hope: The Faith and Future of the Friends Church]]	2004-04-24
US	51761391	R2VCPITD8ZBGV0	0966383508	82456952	LoneSome Stone; Wars of the Soul	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fun to Uncover	As this was written by a friend of the family's, and edited in part by my mom, I was very interested to see what the story was like.  And I learned a lot more about Dave than I had known about his history.  I always simply thought of him before as a guy who worked with my family in ministry.  This is a story of a man who has a great heart to serve and help those who are struggling in life, and can write authentically from his own experience, through choices and suffering, through Pilgrim's Progress and Pilgrim's Regress, to come to a place of Light and Truth.  At times it seems that he has been through too much for it to have been real.  Most of all, what comes through is his compassion and desire for others who are going through what he once did.<br /><br />After reading this book, I recommended it to a friend of mine, who is struggling with a son choosing a path of violence and possible prison.  She was greatly encouraged by Dave's thoughts.  The one thing I would wish more from in this book is more stories.  There are many times when what happened is glossed over, is told and not showed.  You can tell that there is more here, that there are engrossing stories that need to still be related, with the freshness of greater detail and greater description.  I would long to hear much more of Dave's life.	2004-04-09
US	51761391	R34DBCKECMW4IT	1565633652	152429991	Heresies: Heresy and Orthodoxy in the History of the Church	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	Informative and Engrossing	I felt like I walked through the valley of Christian history, and on every side of me lay dragons and lions of dissent, seeking to devour Truth and replace it with the viscera and bones of deception.  Brown presents Christian history as the dialectic of orthodoxy, heresy, and the response to heresy.  Without heresy, the Church would not be what we know today.  For we defined ourselves by what became heretical.  There would be no need to state the precise nature of the Trinity (or as precise as is possible) if there had not been those who denied it's existence.  There would be no need to say that Jesus is one person, in two natures, one divine and one human, if some had not claimed that Jesus was only divine, or two persons.  There would be no need to dwell on the grace of Christ's soteriology, if some had not believed that we were essentially good, and just needed to be reminded of the truth through Christ's example.<br />For those who would claim, as some do these days, that heresy was orthodoxy, and orthodoxy only the most powerful of the parties who wrote the histories, Brown convincingly shows how what we understand orthodoxy to be today is what has always been believed, from the earliest times, and the earliest sources.  It is not however simple to uncover this truth, or simply that what we believe now must be what was first believed- this Brown also makes clear.<br />Perhaps one of his most interesting insights is how the Roman Church left the path it was on, in reformatting it's doctrine of transubstantiation, making it more exact than it needed to be.  In so doing, they removed the personal efficaciousness of soteriology.  And though the Eastern Church also believed in a literal transformation, with their less legalistic focus on mystery, they were still able to unite the average believer with her Lord.  Unfortunately, this legalistic soteriology dependent on literal transformation of elements, which only priests could perform and thus be fully involved with, created a gap between God and man.  This gap needed to be resolved, and lead directly to the Protestant Reformation, in Brown's opinion, as one possible solution.  If only the Roman Church had been content to not innovate in doctrine, but allow for differences in understanding on the elements, the Church today might still be more united.<br />Brown does better on early heresies than later ones.  Once he gets to the last few centuries, what he calls the End of the Age of Heresy, his writing style declines, and the story becomes much drier.  Without heresy, a book on heresies is simply less interesting.  And so it took me a good deal of time to wend through the end, though the first 4/5ths of the book took only a few days.with, created a gap between God and man.  This gap needed to be resolved, and lead directly to the Protestant Reformation, in Brown's opinion, as one possible solution.  If only the Roman Church had been content to not innovate in doctrine, but allow for differences in understanding on the elements, the Church today might still be more united.<br />Brown does better on early heresies than later ones.  Once he gets to the last few centuries, what he calls the End of the Age of Heresy, his writing style declines, and the story becomes much drier.  Without heresy, a book on heresies is simply less interesting.  And so it took me a good deal of time to wend through the end, though the first 4/5ths of the book took only a few days.	2004-04-09
US	51761391	R89IG7348V4U0	0451458559	806612847	Shockball: A Stardoc Novel	Books	1	8	9	N	N	?	What happened to the series???  Yes, there's a plot, yes, we get new stuff revealed about Cherijo, but...it feels like nothing major happened.  It feels like I've been stuck in a big hole in the ground the entire novel.  There is no real forward progression of characters, of ideas, of feelings.  It is the same stuff again, but this time on Earth.  Where it's evidently a lot more boring.<br />There was a lot of potential in Cherijo dealing with her father.  And it is mostly wasted.  I can't tell you how disappointing it is to discover that she's not so unique.  And soon after getting into the lab, she escapes, and spends a good chunk of time underground.  Jules Verne did a great science fiction book about being underground.  He was able to pull it off.  Most writers since then have realized it's pretty hard to make that interesting.<br />And, Wow, Ick!  I *don't* want to hear about vivid descriptions of rapes and child molestation.  I read novels for enjoyment, and enlightenment.  Not to be disgusted.<br />There's a fifth book out there in the series, which reveals the final details about Cherijo's life, beyond what her father did.  I'm not going to bother to buy it.  At this point, I've been too disappointed, and too bored, by the last two novels.  The investment I made in the character in the first two novels doesn't carry me over into any further interest in her.	2004-03-05
US	51761391	R9LBK3JJTYUUY	0451457935	705704096	Beyond Varallan (Stardoc II)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I'm Enjoying it.	I don't often get the opportunity to read good science fiction, where the characters are well-developed, consistent, and evolving.  It is additionally interesting to now follow the main character out of a planet-bound environment and on to a starship- from a Deep Space 9 environment and on to moving Enterprise space ship.  It provides more room for the author to develop plot twists and character growth.<br />I particularly like this series because it focuses on a female- a group that often gets short-shrift in the genre.  She is mysterious, powerful in her own right, but also acting and thinking in a feminine manner.  This is not simply a book written by a male author where the heroine is female in body only, going out and courageously kicking alien butt, acting and thinking in everyway like a man.  It is good to get into her head, as the book is all written from her perspective, as the author considers how this genetically engineered woman might respond to different developments.  And this Veihl does very well.<br />At one point, for a good portion of the book, I started to be disappointed with Veihl.  The characters she had so well portrayed in the first book, and in the beginning of the second, seemed to not be following their previous descriptions.  They lacked credibility.  It seemed that Veihl lost her touch.  But stick with it- the explanation is convincing, when it finally comes.<br />Unfortunately, there is less thematic philosophical development in this book, compared with the series originator.  I was hoping for more exploration of the ethical ideas involved in Dr. Grey's decision to clone, and the ramifications of slavery and ownership.  Perhaps it is something that will be seen in the next book.	2004-02-29
US	51761391	RHGO4JIR3DENB	0451458141	200427283	Endurance (A Stardoc Novel)	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Disappointing	I think Veihl is trying to keep the readers here, and answer as many questions as she can in this book, before they start to lose interest.  It feels like too much is put in, and simultaneously not enough.<br />This is darker than the previous two novels, as Cherijo becomes a slave for reptilian creatures.  Throughout it seems that Duncan, her on-and-off-again lover, is frankly evil, and in league with the slavetraders.  And his evil nature is never adequately resolved in the book.  He is supposed to have this amazing telepathy with Cherijo- and yet he never uses it once to explain his actions to her, and there is never once an explanation as to why he doesn't!  Veihl throws everything together literally in the last chapter, and acts like everything is fixed.  It is, if you don't understand human nature, philosophy, or basic psychology.  Which is disappointing, considering how well characters have been painted and built up in the previous two novels.<br />I don't want to read extensive litanies of torture (of which there are several) or detailed descriptions of bizarre sexual practices.  I'd like to explore beliefs and philosophies- something science fiction is an ideal medium for.  But in this book, I am trying to figure out why in the world Cherijo is making the choices she is, and why the author doesn't realize that these choices don't bear semblance to reality.  I think the only way they can is if it turns out in the last book that Cherijo's psychology has been substantially altered along with her genetic code.  So I'll read the fourth book, to find out if this is explained, and what happens to Cherijo.  But I'm looking forward to it with less relish.	2004-02-28
US	51761391	R2RBNITL0FWXNQ	0451457730	898233857	Stardoc	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining	Viehl is an excellent writer.  She creates real worlds, and real characters.  Having moved into a new culture to be a teacher, a culture composed of at least 8 different cultures, all evolving rapidly, I easily identified with the primary character, Cherijo, as she pursues a professional career on a new planet, teeming with some 200 different species and cultures.  Trying to serve the medical needs of 70,000 beings, ranging in size from a snail to a wooly mammoth, is an incredible challenge.  This challenge takes what could be a somewhat boring premise- a novel about medical practice in the future- and turns it into a roller-coaster ride of a book, difficult to put down.  Then Viehl adds in a number of suprises, up to the very end, as you try to discover just who Cherijo really is.<br />I write of the characters as they are human, because Viehl does such a good job of creating her characters.  Science Fiction is sometimes accused of being technology driven- you slap a few people (or species) into a standard plot, throw in a few gimmicks, and you get instafiction.  But all good science fiction has been character driven- with just a few things changed to help us understand one possible future, and our possible present.  Viehl does this excellently, helping us undersand what it means to be human.  And in a genre that often downplays the role of women and minorities, Viehl is to be commended for highlighting both- I don't read much science fiction where the hero is a female Native American.	2004-02-22
US	51761391	R99JZ0KN8YR5U	0553288105	229605670	The Gods Themselves	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Better as 3 Stories	Asimov presents very convincing character development, pulling the reader in and presenting many interesting twists.  Sometimes the physics was a big overwhelming, and I had to reread certain passages a number of times, and remember back to Atomic Mass theory.  I was particularly intrigued with the emerging environmental consciousness presented:  ideas of  future renewable, free energy sources, in a metaphor for our current unquestionable unquenchable pursuit of nonrenewable resources, within the ever-present myth of a free lunch.<br />Asimov explores many possibilities in the human and alien psyche, considering how our negative impulses can push us on to greatness- great glory, or great tragedy.  He investigates how the perceptions of who we are will change with time- the perceptions of others, and our self-perception.  I was engrossed- I wanted to know what was going to happen next to these characters that I cared about.  And what happened next, especially at the end of the units, was usually not what I expected.  It is a well written novel.  And therein lies the flaw.<br />Perhaps if the characters weren't so well portrayed, it wouldn't matter that we never get to find out what happens to them.  This is written more as three separate stories, around a common theme, rather than a novel.  And the three stories themselves are more slice-of-life than the traditional Western novella genre.  So we begin to care a great deal about character, only to see him disappear at the end of the first unit, and only be tangentially mentioned in the third unit.  Then we get a very interesting display of a completely foreign and alien psychology and anthropology, with 3 mates in one, and a complicated lifecycle- only to have a surprise at the end of the second unit, never fully explained, and the aliens never really again mentioned.  And in the third unit, with a long rendition of what life is like on the moon, we focus on a character tangentially mentioned in the first unit- and in this story, there is at least some completion, albeit with unfortunate gratuitous dwelling on nudity.  Each would be quite good alone, with extra material added.  But I'm left feeling that this is an unfinished novel- worse, 3 unfinished novels.  I'd rather have the author finish his own work, and not be made to complete the novel for him.in this story, there is at least some completion, albeit with unfortunate gratuitous dwelling on nudity.  Each would be quite good alone, with extra material added.  But I'm left feeling that this is an unfinished novel- worse, 3 unfinished novels.  I'd rather have the author finish his own work, and not be made to complete the novel for him.	2004-02-15
US	51761391	RCBZW9UJOIPSE	0060012811	576855356	Patrick:  Son of Ireland	Books	4	5	8	N	Y	Gripping Reading	I immensely enjoy Lawhead's writing style.  He shows not characters but people.  Though they may be of a different land, culture, and time, they are real; they are people I want to meet, to spend time with, and that I move for.  Lawhead does this again with Patrick, Succat, as he is called for most of the book.  Although much of his life is unknown to history, Lawhead takes what we know, and imaginatively builds upon it, creating an epic life of Wales, Ireland, Germany, France, and Italy.<br />I can't give it five stars because some stuff in the book is a little...odd.  Lawhead really has no need to include the rather graphic sex scenes.  He attributes something more like magic to Patrick, and to the druids, rather than the power of God, as revealed in Christ.  And I have no idea why he aligns Patrick with the heretic Pelagius.  Pelagius may have been a rather minor heretic, but heretic he was nonetheless, and there really isn't much in Patrick's teachings, as we understand them, to indicate he followed the bent that we are saved by works without original sin, rather than by the gracious act of God.  And sadly, for all the build-up, we get very little of Patrick's actual ministry on the island- it's are left wanting a second book to complete the story.<br />But Lawhead fully comes home with the abilities he is known for.  As he did in Dream Thief and Empyrion, he shows how Christ might come to another culture, how he is revealed, not as a foreign presence, but as He who was always present, He who was always there, in the thoughts and practices of the people, in their desires and hopes, in their beliefs and dreams.  He is Iosa, already worshipped, and so Patrick learns from the people he eventually goes to, how to fully worship Christ, and how to fully bring love, and show the people love, by being loved first himself.	2004-02-11
US	51761391	R1LUH3RBFJ20S9	0385033745	504537064	Green, Green My Valley Now	Books	3	31	31	N	Y	Mediocre Ending to an Engrossing Series	I enjoyed finally seeing the end of what happened to Huw Morgan.  But I was unable to be excited about the man, the character, as I once was.  Perhaps there was so much promise in the little boy, with his idealism, the way he saw the world, coming to understand more, but still innocent.  All this was present in the first book, and to a certain extent, in the next two in the series.  Here, I see mostly a man who has grown weary of the world, tired.  One who is well-traveled, and well-experienced, and not inspiring.  He responds to adventure not as if it is adventure, but as someone who knows how to handle it, and endure it, for it is simply another step in life.  There are some exciting times in the book.  But most if the time I was left sad, that there was so much promise in this character to begin with, and now it seems here there is a man who can not stop thinking about any woman who is remotely pretty, and one who must have sex with any woman who gives him any amount of interest.  There is a moment that you wait for throughout the book, hoping for, anticipating, and in the end are left disappointed, for there is very little revealed of this moment.  And the romantic love that finally results is perhaps the least interesting, the least exciting, of all those in his life.  It is as if Llewellyn simply grew tired of writing, and needed to finish up the book, to get it out to presses.<br /><br />Yes, I'd still recommend it.  For those like me, you have to know what happens in a man's life, and once the story begins, you need to know how it ends.  And there is enough of the Welsh feel and history here to satisfy to some extent.  But it may be less the Welsh idealism and love of life, and more a reflection of the dissatisfaction of the way things have turned out, almost a dour Scandinavian regret and angst.  By the end, Llewellyn seems to present Huw as an anatype to represent the history of Wales, as it moves into a modern era controlled by England, and people desire their own control, but know in the depths of their being they will never fully control their own lives.  This might be very accurate, and very revealing- but it is never enjoyable to read about someone who doesn't enjoy their own life, or fine enjoyment in the lives of their countrymen.n control, but know in the depths of their being they will never fully control their own lives.  This might be very accurate, and very revealing- but it is never enjoyable to read about someone who doesn't enjoy their own life, or fine enjoyment in the lives of their countrymen.	2004-02-11
US	51761391	R1RCMXWY0YSEII	0832911739	121458831	Cotton Patch Version of Luke and Acts: Jesus' Doings and the Happenings	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Jesus Came to America	Sometimes I feel like I've read the stories too many times.  I already know what's going to happen, I already know what the characters do.  Yes, God can give new insights every time, but sometimes it can seem like that movie you've watched 100 times and it isn't as exciting as a new movie.<br />Jordan takes the stories, and makes the live again.  Just tweaking location and culture, they are different, they reveal far more of what the original authors wanted us to know, they throw excitement back into the mix.  Rather than simply reading these as devotion, I found myself engrossed, staying up late at night again, as if I was reading a simple novel, to find out what would happen next, what new twist would occur.<br />So a man is waylaid on his waylaid on the way from Atlanta to Albany, and a white minister and a white Gospel song leader passed him by.  A black man stopped and helped him, giving his last two dollars to make sure the hospital cared for him.  Then Jesus asks the (white) Sunday School teacher, who would you consider to be your neighbor?  He replies, \\"Why, of course, the nig- I mean, er...well, er...the one who treated him kindly.\\"  Jesus replies, \\"Well, then, *you* get going and start living like that!\\"<br />With such vinnettes Jordan moves us into the American South in the 50's, where a movement rises up lead by this one white guy Jesus, calling people to love each other, whether they are black or white.  And then one of his followers in the second book of The Happenings goes bout and preaches desegregation, for the Gospel came to all, whether white or black.  This is the application of life that Christ talked about.  But remember to read these with the right accent!<br />Jesus did come to America- but in 1950, not 33 AD.	2004-01-31
US	51761391	R1XQR6X34UAOEP	0590205161	792694112	I Have A Dream	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I cry every time I read it	I used to read this to my kids when I was a children's librarian in an African-American school in Detroit, and they loved it.  It has such amazing, beautiful pictures- you can't really understand their beauty until you see the book in front of you.  And of course, the speech is incredibly moving.  The book prints the full text of the speech, but since there isn't alot of writing on each page, and there is such beautiful artwork, even 4th graders sit in awe at what is read and shown to them.	2003-12-05
US	51761391	R1OAC2QCGLNBJS	0812532635	247851703	The Ships of Earth (Homecoming Saga)	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Allegory Attempted	This is not analogy but allegory.  Do not expect a point by point symbolic representation- not even at the level of Lewis' Narnia series.  Card builds upon the Old Testament myths to create a world 40 million years from now, on a planet far, far away.  He appears to not want to guess at how the Patriarchs might have lived in this place and time, or try to recreate their lives, as much as to use those same stories, and play with them, tweak them, and use the universal themes within the stories of Genesis to tell us something of life and humanity.  So we see here the infighting between Jacob and Esau, as Jacob is younger brother to Esau, and also the strife between Joseph and his brothers, for Joseph has the special coat, and even more horribly, the special contact with Father and God.  And here is the wandering in the desert of Moses, as they search for a promised land (promised by the oversoul computer), while all the while the followers gripe and complain and seek to return to the place where they were safe and happy, rather then risking with the promises of God/supercomputer.<br />Interesting character development, and, as opposed to the first book in the series, some serious plot development too.  I found myself inspired to trust in God more, to trust whatever the plans were that She might have (as the oversoul is referred to), and I to think to listen to God, when He might be speaking.  One of the benefits of science fiction is it can get inside your brain.  After putting this book down, I found myself trying to be constantly attuned to that inner voice of the Spirit, for what God might have to say to me.	2003-12-05
US	51761391	R2KX5G042RWLK9	0812532988	708369507	Earthborn (Homecoming)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Interesting Reading	Throughout this series Card has been playing with Biblical themes and characters on another planet 40 million years in the future, and then on Earth in the same time period.  He now follows the Biblical track of jumping from 400 years before Christ to the time of the New Testament.  There was the creation of sacred texts by the patriarchs (Nafai) that are now followed, to certain extents by the people of Earth.  But just as in 1st century Palestine, many have grown legalistic in their pursuit of their religion, and are in need of revival.  On the way he successfully limits the validity of the Mormon Native American myth, by comparing those tribes to an Islamic violent failed evolutionary stream that is only peripherally related to the main storyline.<br /><br />In the meantime, in the downside of the series, only Shedemai remains from the original cast of the first four books.  I miss the characters that Card drew so well, and wanted to know what happened to them- it felt like conflicts were still unresolved.  But then, that is the way of the Bible too, where the point isn't the characters, the people, but the shadowy character behind the people, God.  Shedemai's presence provides some measure of continuity, and also provides a nice setup for a Christ-figure to show up, as people begin to preach the religion of Love.<br /><br />So here, we have a man who baptizes, speaking of another coming after him, and of the need for people to renew themselves in love, and return to the true religion of the Keeper, ala John the Baptist.  We have the growth of the movement, and the resulting persecution.  And one, close to the religion, breathing murderous threats, and then he is met on the road to Damascus.<br /><br />None of this of course fits with the stories we find in the Gospels and Acts.  Rather, Card seems to be  taking the stories and themes of the New Testament and playing freely with them, to create new stories, using the same ideas in new ways.  Though at times Shedemai is a Christ figure, with great power, coming from something like God Himself, with a huge ethic of service within love, and love of all peoples and species- she also does not know herself, and does not know the Keeper.  But do not look here for anyone truly representing Jesus or God.  This is in many ways poorly done allegory, as if Card is trying to represent Biblical themes and characters and yet can never adequately achieve true symbology.  This is certainly a work of fiction, and shows how truly fictional similar heretical attempts to recreate the Biblical storyline have been.<br /><br />Through this Card shows what might have been the psychology of some of the heroes and anti-heroes of the Bible.  The Old and New Testament sometimes don't lend themselves to the degree of psychological introspection we desire and have come to expect in modern novels.  Here is one possibility for that introspection.  And finally, what we have been waiting for for five books, what was hinted at all along, Shedemai gets to see who the Keeper of Earth truly is.with great power, coming from something like God Himself, with a huge ethic of service within love, and love of all peoples and species- she also does not know herself, and does not know the Keeper.   But do not look here for anyone truly representing Jesus or God.  This is in many ways poorly done allegory, as if Card is trying to represent Biblical themes and characters and yet can never adequately achieve true symbology.  This is certainly a work of fiction, and shows how truly fictional similar heretical attempts to recreate the Biblical storyline have been.    Through this Card shows what might have been the psychology of some of the heroes and anti-heroes of the Bible.  The Old and New Testament sometimes don't lend themselves to the degree of psychological introspection we desire and have come to expect in modern novels.  Here is one possibility for that introspection.  And finally, what we have been waiting for for five books, what was hinted at all along, Shedemai gets to see who the Keeper of Earth truly is.	2003-12-05
US	51761391	RAWVJX0G83ZM7	0812532961	246316332	Earthfall: Homecoming: Volume 4 (Homecoming Saga)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	The Character of the Patriarchs	As the journey continues Card matures the characters.  Yet we see no one flat- everyone, the most evil, has good points; the most good have their own private evils.  The Patriarchal disagreements continue- Card uses the vast history of the Genesis stories of Jacob & Esau, Joseph, Abram, and Moses in one cast of characters to give us an idea of how the issues those men dealt with might be recapitulated 40 million years from now on another planet.  And so just as in the time of the Judges and the Kings in the Old Testament, here people try to stop the journey from happening, and try to keep the people of God (God now being referred to as The Keeper of Earth) from reaching the homeland when they are almost there.  Many of the followers attempt to gain their own power and ignore the desires of the oversoul and the Keeper, just as occurred in the time of the Kings.  And yet in the midst of this, as in II Isaiah, one rises up to be a Suffering Servant to bear the burdens of his people.<br /><br />But when they reach the promised land, not everything is perfect, for there also, the Philistines and Canaanites are already there.  How shall they deal with them?  In warfare, or bringing them into their new nation?  Both options were chosen by the Israelites at different times, in different places in Palestine.<br /><br />As I reflect on this book, I continually see new Biblical parallels, and gain new insights- into the book, my understanding of Biblical exegesis, and into my own relationship with God.  Card lays out how the Keeper's awesome plan will go forward, and how He wants to bring everyone She can into it.  I contemplate how the same is true of God.<br /><br />[[ASIN:1565639774 The Interlinear Bible: Hebrew-Greek-English]]	2003-12-05
US	51761391	R1L8417NOGD1KX	0812532597	755744029	The Memory of Earth (Homecoming)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Not His Best	I've seen Card write better, and so I picked up this book.  But the book is afflicted by a number of problems.  Card still writes great characters- surprisingly so in the science fiction genre.  These people aren't flat- they're very developed and changing.  The protagonist isn't someone perfect, that you immediately like- he's a very believable young teenager.<br />But the story drags for a while, and then never really draws you in.  It's a tale of a computer controlling the lives of humans on the planet below, in order to keep them from self-genocide, or even xenocide- but Card gets very bogged down with the mundane details of the city.  Indeed, it seems he focuses on character at the expense of plot.  In the end, events happen, the story moves forward- only to be incomplete until the next book, woefully incomplete.  I felt like I read half a story, and not just the first segment of a longer epic.  All this time spent in the story, to achieve a particular goal, with the expectation that that goal would make something amazing happen, and then nothing.  And parts of the summation are simply morally horrific to contemplate.  I understand Card is attempting a Patriarchal Biblical parallel 40 million years in the future on another planet- but some updates in terms of progressive revelation would be more helpful.  Recommend you try out PastWatch for great Card reading instead.	2003-11-24
US	51761391	R3QI0IZR62HXZZ	0812508645	216137473	Pastwatch: The Redemption of Christopher Columbus	Books	5	55	60	N	N	Passion & Purity	I haven't been able to stop thinking about this book since I finished it late last night.  I don't know the story of Columbus well enough, or even the Columbus myth well enough, to know how accurate Card's history was.  I can't speak to that.  But the character he created was a man so on fire for God, so committed to acting rightly, so passionate in pursuit of the vision he felt God had given him- and yet malleable and teachable.  I read this, thinking, I desire that same passion for the purposes that God has set for me.  And, in reading this book, I feel like I have caught some of that spirit.<br /><br />So often, in science fiction, the author sacrifices character development, themes, and even plot, for the sake of playing with futuristic machines and technology.  Card does not.  All the characters are rich, three-dimensional, taking turns you wouldn't expect.  He spends great time on each character, delving into their lives, to explain what they did and why, and who they are and how they effect others.  The plot likewise is worthy of O'Henry, and the very concept ingenious.  This is one further error that Card avoids- so many SciFi writers are all concept, but can't put the concept to paper in a gripping story. Here the plot is intimately connected to the characters, for it is plots within plots, with themes throughout of trying to understand why people act the way they do, and what it is (within their own history, and the history going back many generations) that causes them to act.  For all the evil Columbus did, or initated (truly, a great amount), here, we see a real man, flawed, like any man; heroic, like some men- and what he could have been.<br /><br />But Card's biggest success is perhaps his philosophical musings.  Which is why it's light on the scientific methodology- you'll never hear here how it's possible to view the past or go to the past, about wormholes or quantum mechanices or anything like this as you do in Crichton's [[ASIN:0345468260 Timeline]].  Indeed, the history and science here are rather ridiculous, making it clear that some sort of technologically advanced native peoples (in the sense of modern technology) could never have existed in meso-America in anything else but a work of fiction.<br /><br />But this isn't a book of philosophy that drags to read through like Callenbach's [[ASIN:0553348477 Ecotopia]].  It's philosophy interwoven through the plot.  Not just the \\"what-ifs\\" that always come up within the alternative history genre, but questioning of the nature of Christ, and the Gospel, and how it is meant to be practiced, and how it has been practiced.  What if those first European explorers in the New World had practiced the Gospel they preached?  What kind of world would we live in today?  What then does it mean to act with mercy, to act with charity, to prefer another's needs to oneself, to be a servant of all?  What is truly the best way to change the world?  Card answers this by showing that we can only teach through learning.  And that passion is an answer, but it's not the end of the answer, until you learn humility, and love towards the least.e history and science here are rather ridiculous, making it clear that some sort of technologically advanced native peoples (in the sense of modern technology) could never have existed in meso-America in anything else but a work of fiction.      But this isn't a book of philosophy that drags to read through like Callenbach's [[ASIN:0553348477 Ecotopia]].  It's philosophy interwoven through the plot.  Not just the \\"what-ifs\\" that always come up within the alternative history genre, but questioning of the nature of Christ, and the Gospel, and how it is meant to be practiced, and how it has been practiced.  What if those first European explorers in the New World had practiced the Gospel they preached?  What kind of world would we live in today?  What then does it mean to act with mercy, to act with charity, to prefer another's needs to oneself, to be a servant of all?  What is truly the best way to change the world?  Card answers this by showing that we can only teach through learning.  And that passion is an answer, but it's not the end of the answer, until you learn humility, and love towards the least.	2003-11-16
US	51761391	R3DMV6I782M3LL	1565630130	853656590	Is It Okay to Call God "Mother": Considering the Feminine Face of God	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Imma, Imma Mother	Smith writes an excellent book that goes into great detail on how to understand God as female and Mother.  He writes not with anger, but with great love and concern and sensitivity, coming from a background as I do of not originally believing this was appropriate.  To do this, he goes through point by point in the Old and New Testament, and early church history, looking at how God was understood and referred to, and how Jesus saw God.  How El Shaddai can be very easily read in the Hebrew as \\"The Breasted One\\"- She who provides us with the milk of mercy and compassion of the womb, as the early church mothers and fathers referred to her, and as is referred to countless times in metaphor in the Old Testament.  Smith takes us through his own process of discernment and revelation, as the Holy Spirit revealed to him who She is (using the Hebrew gender case in the Old Testament), and the steps that one can take in their own church to assist in this revelation.  Yet he always insists that, on a personal level, the feminine be used only if it is helpful for the individual.  He shares the meanings and interpretations of Paul's writings on women, for Swift rightfully points out that our treatment of women is intimately connected to our treatment of God- whether or not we see God as also female.  Through it all, Swift remains committed to orthodoxy, and has a strong commitment to scripture.  He in no way rejects seeing God as male, or advocates that God is a person and has gender in the same way we do- but rather, that God encompasses both male and female, both being acceptable metaphors for understanding who He is.<br />The only thing I'd question in this book was Smith's extensive use of the argument that Father God was used at one time because Father represented power and compassion in a society, and Mother did not, and so, back in the day, it would have been inappropriate to use Mother in referring to God, but now, in this day and age, it is permissible.  While the argument has some merit, it really refers only to the West.  It would imply that, within the 2/3rds world, where the concept of Woman and Mother are still often denigrated, that God should not be spoken of as Mother.  And I think the rest of the arguments and discussion Swift lays out belies this idea.  There are simply too many other positives to being able to see God as Mother, even in a culture that does not value women in the same way as men.  For the women in the culture learn that God is like them, for they also are in Her image, and the men in the culture learn to value the women much more, for they also are in His image.<br />Having gone through my own conversion experience to see the Gospel's call for he emancipation of women, I related with relish to much of what Swift wrote.  This I think will be a further step on my own journey.  I have often referred, in my most intimate of moments, to God as Girlfriend.  God as Mother is a bit more difficult, a bit more jarring.  As Swift points out, there is cognitive dissonance there to begin with.  But often, dissonance can be good, in helping us appreciate new realities, and break open the box we've put God into, stripping us of idolatry.  It can often be simply that we have for so long understood God in one way, it is difficult in the beginning to understand Her anew.  But as I practice this, I also begin to see God anew, and feel Her presence as a Mother, in a new, and very intimate way, being born again, as Spirit gives birth to Spirit.has some merit, it really refers only to the West.  It would imply that, within the 2/3rds world, where the concept of Woman and Mother are still often denigrated, that God should not be spoken of as Mother.  And I think the rest of the arguments and discussion Swift lays out belies this idea.  There are simply too many other positives to being able to see God as Mother, even in a culture that does not value women in the same way as men.  For the women in the culture learn that God is like them, for they also are in Her image, and the men in the culture learn to value the women much more, for they also are in His image.<br />Having gone through my own conversion experience to see the Gospel's call for he emancipation of women, I related with relish to much of what Swift wrote.  This I think will be a further step on my own journey.  I have often referred, in my most intimate of moments, to God as Girlfriend.  God as Mother is a bit more difficult, a bit more jarring.  As Swift points out, there is cognitive dissonance there to begin with.  But often, dissonance can be good, in helping us appreciate new realities, and break open the box we've put God into, stripping us of idolatry.  It can often be simply that we have for so long understood God in one way, it is difficult in the beginning to understand Her anew.  But as I practice this, I also begin to see God anew, and feel Her presence as a Mother, in a new, and very intimate way, being born again, as Spirit gives birth to Spirit.	2003-11-10
US	51761391	R2WSRFNYUVY0NN	140430312X	811335449	From the Earth to the Moon	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	First part good, second part, not so much.	Verne writes a great story in From the Earth to the Moon, ending on a cliff hanger that leaves you wondering, exploring all the science of his day, and the possibilities therein.  Sometimes it can get a bit long-winded, but overall, a fun read.<br />The second portion is far less so, however.  One gets the impression that, after his first novel was published, he suffered a large amount of scientific criticism, or else new scientific data came in, denying some of what he had written.  Perhaps he simply gave in to critics who claimed the novel seemed unfinished.  And so he wrote a second novel, and wrote too much.  A Trip Around It suffers from extreme long-windedness, and tedious explanations of what we have observed of the moon, and what was hypothesized about the moon in Verne's day.  I kept on reading, skimming finally, waiting for the action to begin, waiting for something to develop- and was disappointed.  This is a novel about three men who are all rather big on themselves, traveling in cramped quarters, describing fictional and real geography.  And it's simply not fun to read a novel whose characters are only proud people.  This was perhaps a book that served a scientific purpose for understanding the lunar terrain, when it was written.  Now it is more of a historical note on Verne's failure, and how not to write.	2003-10-19
US	51761391	R1AYZQX0QPI4VE	0826211348	431479898	Quakers and Nazis: Inner Light in Outer Darkness	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	And	Schmitt repeatedly stresses in his book the title- Quakers *and* Nazis, not Quakers *verses* Nazis.  And that is the beauty of this book.  Schmitt writes of how the Quakers in WWII worked to protect people from the Nazis, to engage in feeding programs, clothing the hungry, serving those the Nazis were oppressing, working to release them from prison and concentration camps.  All this they do before WWII, during the war, and afterward, throughout the world- Germany, Austria, Poland, Latvia, Holland, Denmark, and even Morocco.<br /><br />But Schmitt also writes of how the Friends worked to free Nazis from prison, to feed the Nazis and German soldiers, and make sure they were clothed.  They believed that no one should be imprisoned for the sake of their conscience, no one should be mistreated for what they believed- no matter how insiduous those beliefs.<br /><br />There are times when the Quakers struggle with their missions, and times when they don't agree.  Reflecting the standard Quaker doctrine that each individual should be guided by the internal Light of the Holy Spirit, some choose to fight for Germany, though most choose the ancient Quaker doctrine of pacifism.  Some choose to work in England to try to appease Germany; others realize early on this will not happen.  Some are willing to agree with Germany's Semitic separations in feeding the poor and oppressed, in order that they might at least help some; others refuse to be involved in anti-Semitism at all.<br /><br />Schmitt writes with copious detail, which can lead to some boredom at times- there's a lot of research here, and sometimes you have to wade through it to get to the better parts.  I was particularly impressed how, as one reads step by step in the history of the period, how easy it was to not realize the horrific nature of the Nazi regime, from the perspective of the time.  Even the Quakers who disagree with the anti-Semitism, violence, and injustice of the Nazis, don't realize the full gamut of the evil of the Nazi regime until the stories come out at war's end.  In the beginning, it is one's own country, which has taken a wrong turn, as every country does, in every age.  And the wrong turn gets a little worse.  And a little worse.  And it is so easy to disagree with the actions of one's country, to fight them, but still not realize that that last turn was the one that went far, far too far.<br /><br />The Friends respond to these wrong turns with love.  They decided they would love the Jews, and their fellow Germans.  And that they would love the Nazis, as brothers and friends.  Just as they won slave-owners in the South to the cause of abolition by loving the slave-owners as brothers, they hoped to win over the Nazis.  They succeeded in some small measure in gaining greater rights to care for the oppressed.  But most of all, they remained a witness of love and peace, a light in a time of great darkness.ime until the stories come out at war's end.  In the beginning, it is one's own country, which has taken a wrong turn, as every country does, in every age.  And the wrong turn gets a little worse.  And a little worse.  And it is so easy to disagree with the actions of one's country, to fight them, but still not realize that that last turn was the one that went far, far too far.    The Friends respond to these wrong turns with love.  They decided they would love the Jews, and their fellow Germans.  And that they would love the Nazis, as brothers and friends.  Just as they won slave-owners in the South to the cause of abolition by loving the slave-owners as brothers, they hoped to win over the Nazis.  They succeeded in some small measure in gaining greater rights to care for the oppressed.  But most of all, they remained a witness of love and peace, a light in a time of great darkness.	2003-08-22
US	51761391	R3OVS811NOTMBH	1576736792	39938678	Lord Foulgrin's Letters	Books	4	14	19	N	Y	Deep, Engrossing, could have been better...	Alcorn writes very explicitely in the [[ASIN:0060652934 Screwtape]] tradition. I found myself quite challenged by much the demons have to say, and with every reading, had to put the book down and contemplate my life. There is a lot more here on (supposed) demonology and interactions in the lowarchy, including some spicy references to Screwtape himself. And while Screwtape Letters works quite well as it is, Alcorn's format, interspersing letters with storyline, also lead to an engrossing read, as I found myself caring deeply about the characters and what might happen to them. I was not at all expecting the denoument.<br /><br />I particularly enjoyed Alcorn's description of hell- not as a place of fire; explicitely not as a place to have a \\"good time with all my friends\\"- but as a place of utter lonliness, separate from God and all people.  Every thing of the afterlife can in the end only be described with metaphor, but I have long imagined hell to be just such a place.<br /><br />However, read this book with some grains of salt, for if the salt loses it's saltiness...Lewis wrote from a wonderfully strong ecumenical perspective. Alcorn does not. At times, the book seems less the demons talking about how to destroy humanity, than Alcorn using the modicum of demons in order to lay out his personal agenda for the church. Not that that's a bad move- but it's not as much of what I'd like. So sometimes, when he's talking about materialism, I really agree with Alcorn. He lambasts both the left and the right of the church, equally. But other times, such as an entire chapter on how the demons have used evolution to destroy Christian thinking, or how they want kids to go to American colleges, as most of them will lead humans away from Christ, I couldn't disagree with him more.<br /><br />In reading this, I realized how this format can be quite insiduous in drawing you in. If it is demons talking about how to destroy humans, of course you don't want to agree with demons. And so when they talk about evolution, I for a moment am confused, thinking that I definitely don't want to believe evolution is true, if the demons came up with it. Until I wake up, and realize that, after all, this is just a work of fiction.<br /><br />For I could just as easily write:<br /><br />\\"My dear Squaltaint,<br /><br />Whatever you do, don't let those Christians stop arguing about origins and myths of how Genesis began, and how and in what manner the Enemy created. For as long as they continue to argue about those particulars, and insist on misinterpreting the clear meaning of the Enemy's Book, by reading it literally, they will continue to ignore the clear message of the Enemy- that he is powerful, and intimate. If they continue in their unending arguments on creation and evolution, they will miss the message the Enemy wanted to give them. Whatever you do, keep them from realizing that! For if at some point they stop in these arguments, they will realize that He is close to Him, and powerful, and then it's just another step before they realize they can therefore have power over us. (Those miserable sludgebags!)\\"<br /><br />The point is not that evolution is wrong, or right; the reader may agree or disagree on this one example. The point is that there are many times the reader may not agree with Alcorn's theology, and therefore, be careful as you read through this work, contemplate it slowly and chew it as cud. It is quite easy to make anything sound bad, when demons are talking. If you consider it all carefully, I believe Lord Foulgrin's Letters will be immensely more helpful for you, and your walk.olution, I for a moment am confused, thinking that I definitely don't want to believe evolution is true, if the demons came up with it. Until I wake up, and realize that, after all, this is just a work of fiction.     For I could just as easily write:    \\"My dear Squaltaint,    Whatever you do, don't let those Christians stop arguing about origins and myths of how Genesis began, and how and in what manner the Enemy created. For as long as they continue to argue about those particulars, and insist on misinterpreting the clear meaning of the Enemy's Book, by reading it literally, they will continue to ignore the clear message of the Enemy- that he is powerful, and intimate. If they continue in their unending arguments on creation and evolution, they will miss the message the Enemy wanted to give them. Whatever you do, keep them from realizing that! For if at some point they stop in these arguments, they will realize that He is close to Him, and powerful, and then it's just another step before they realize they can therefore have power over us. (Those miserable sludgebags!)\\"    The point is not that evolution is wrong, or right; the reader may agree or disagree on this one example. The point is that there are many times the reader may not agree with Alcorn's theology, and therefore, be careful as you read through this work, contemplate it slowly and chew it as cud. It is quite easy to make anything sound bad, when demons are talking. If you consider it all carefully, I believe Lord Foulgrin's Letters will be immensely more helpful for you, and your walk.	2003-08-11
US	51761391	R1CJB83Q88C5G5	1566564174	873384249	The Bleeding of the Stone (Interlink World Fiction)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	The Distractions of Life	\\"It was only when he started praying that the male goats decided to butt one another right there in front of him.\\"<br /><br />I tell you, that's a fine first line. It's the kind of first line that draws the reader in, and summarizes the issues of the book:  the distractions that arise as the protagonist, Asouf, focuses on God, distractions that are really all that life is made up of, for in the end, it is all the small things we face that determine our short existence on this planet. Asouf's focus thus is not so much on God, as on the desert, which he lives in, and is part of. It brings into question what it is that Asouf worships most of all.<br /><br />This is an excellently written novel, and one of the few out there in English written by Middle Easterners, from a truly Middle Eastern point of view. Al Koni presents many interweaving themes, heavy on the symbolism, constant flash-backs and foreshadowing premonitions, bringing up a deep concordance with the Latin [[ASIN:3518455532 Pedro Paramo]], though not quite as confusing. At times a bit too gruesome, but always very moving, very magical, very real.<br /><br />And the language Al Koni writes with! Poetic prose.  Vivid imagery. I saw what Al Koni described, and had to go over the words again and again, to relive the moments. \\"The mighty waddan was still now. He saw him raise that great head, crowned with the legendary horns, and face the mysterious thread that heralded dawn. The faint, divine glow within which the secret of life forever dwells anew.\\"<br /><br />A lot of this magic comes from the novel being steeped in folk Islam, that type of Islam imbued with many folk religious practices, practiced by the majority of Muslims around the world, but considered heretical by Islamic religious hierarchy. This thus becomes an excellent novel to understand the mind of a folk Muslim, particularly a North African- not because it gives a litany of different folk practices, but rather because the novel shows the thinking of one aware of the excluded middle of the supernatural, that between the ethical and the great God above, the movements of the supernatural that pragmatically effect the here and now. The beasts of the desert have spirits, and a greater awareness than humans. The jinn (genies) must be placated and considered before making decisions- and here, in this particular desert, they stand tall above all, seeing everything in their pictures on the rock walls. And transformation from one form to another is possible- not because it is believed, but because it is seen, and believing is seeing.<br /><br />Bleeding of the Stone is also a novel of contextual environmentalism. As Al Koni builds up the stories, we receive a picture of a land wasted, a land destroyed, because the people have chosen ways removed from their soul, from the desert, and have become possessed. His use of metaphor is strong, with one of the main characters, Cain, son of Adam, representing a vast people's choice to turn from proper management and care for the desert, while Asouf chooses the right because he is part of the desert. It's a return to the constant feel of the Arab that the desert is where the true values come from, and yet the Bedouin is simultaneously revered and despised. But of course, the Lybian could not have destroyed the land, without the prominent help of a symbolic American. The archetypal Lybian can escape the Italians, but it is the American who does the real damage.<br /><br />Most of all, this is a novel of redemption. Of how it is possible to restore a land, but only through the blood of one of it's own, yet one who is from beyond the desert as well, one become incarnated into a creature of the desert. It is surprising how strongly Al Koni relies on Christian metaphors- not only quoting constantly from the Taurat and Injil (Old and New Testaments), as well as the Qur'an, but focusing explicitly on the metaphor of Christ's crucifixion as placation of death, and reversal of destruction in order to bring life, that rivers might again flow in the desert. In the end, this becomes a profound novel of redemptive analogy.ht again flow in the desert. In the end, this becomes a profound novel of redemptive analogy.	2003-07-24
US	51761391	RA1CQS15TQSCS	0029339405	126972726	Living Overseas	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	The Most Important Preparation	Among books that prepare people for working overseas, this book is really the spirit behind the move- focusing on the spirit of the person moving, how they will approach life and reality.  It is designed to make one look at themself, to grow, and truly be ready in their soul for the move, and ready to face new challenges that can not be foreseen.  Especially valuable are the self-reflection questions at the end of each chapter, so that this is a book of applications and not only theory; and the games at the end of the book, so that application is not individualistic but corporate.  Ward clearly comes from a Christian perspective, making use of the vast plethora of Christian and Biblical historical examples in his writing, but it is in no way overbearing, so any non-Christian will enjoy this book and learn from it.<br />The one drawback in the book- Ward tends to denigrate enculturation/incarnation/contextualization, describing it with a laden pejorative of \\"going native\\"- a phrase that really hearkens back to the imperialism that Ward so rightly rejects throughout his book.  In the use of the phrase, Ward apriori removes the very positive aspects of those who are able to become like the people they feel lead to live with- an approach to cross-cultural interaction which has been highly successful for millennia.  And no higher expression of love can be, then to cease to be differentiated from those you care about, so great is your identification.<br />That aside, this book is highly recommendable to all those who are traveling overseas, for whatever reason, to be prepared for living overseas, in the most important way possible.  I learned much about myself, and Ward deeply explores American culture, following the belief that we need to understand ourselves in order to understand the other, and in understanding the other, we more fully understand ourselves.  I had not realized before that it was a peculiarly Western trait to constantly want to know \\"Why\\", and feel that there is a right to know \\"Why\\".  There is a bit here and there of the  pragmatic, but most of the book is much more than practical- it's how to survive any possibility, because you have prepared your spirit, soul, and mind.at there is a right to know \\"Why\\".  There is a bit here and there of the  pragmatic, but most of the book is much more than practical- it's how to survive any possibility, because you have prepared your spirit, soul, and mind.	2003-07-23
US	51761391	R3I1KNAAYKGKRW	1566563887	842590397	Reel Bad Arabs: How Hollywood Villifies a People	Books	4	42	55	N	Y	Anti-Semitism Uncovered	I am amazed as I read this.  How much have I missed.  Movie after movie, that I've seen, long before I became culturally aware of Arabs and anti-Semitism and the beauty of that culture and the awfulness of racism.  And I did not know.  But Shaheen lays it out too clearly to contradict, in an introduction that lays out the philosophical base for his arguments, and then in copious notes on 900 different movies.  And suddenly I realize that the Black Stallion, a movie I loved as a kid, stigmatizes Arabs.  Suddenly I realize those Porky Pig cartoons where he's a legionnaire are anti-Semitic.  Suddenly I realize that [[ASIN:B00006AL1E Back to the Future]] really engages in the classic stereotypes of the evil, bad, terrorist Arab.  And I mourn.<br /><br />As Shaheen makes it clear, it is not that he is arguing that Arabs should never be portrayed as the bad guys.  It is only that, when we see them in the movies, they almost always are.  And when they're not, we see only a stereotype, of a greedy, lust-driven Arab surrounded by a harem, which has nothing to do with real harems but everything to do with American preoccupation with sex, and perhaps reveals more of who we in the West are than who the Arabs are.<br /><br />This isn't the kind of book you read cover to cover- it's a resource book, and extremely extensive in the information and racism in each movie presented.  It's ideal for picking up right before you watch a video, or right after, to contemplate another perspective than that of the movie, and to discuss.  But there are some times I think when Shaheen misses.  He lambastes farces, like Ishtar, which are true to the nature of a farce, and poke fun at Arabs and song-writers and the CIA and camels and the West- everyone in the movie.  At other times I think he misses the point of a movie made in American culture, like The Siege.  While Arabs are the terrorists in [[ASIN:B00005221K The Siege]], it is quite clear that Bruce Willis, the military leader, is the true bad guy, and the greatest tragedy in The Siege is when Americans decide to remove freedom in place of security, as Benjamin Franklin said, \\"Any society which gives up it's freedom for the sake of security, deserves neither.\\"  The movie is writ on the backbone of our collective shame for what we did to the Japanese in World War II; and written on the collective forgetfulness we have as we now do the same thing to Arabs.<br /><br />But small points, on a few movies.  Overall, it is impossible to come away from this book with the thought that Hollywood is at all equitable in it's treatment of groups, especially Semites.  It is impossible to view movies the same way again.  I wait with dread the next great production of Hollywood, where out of nowhere, Arabs will again appear as the caricatured, ignoramus villains- perhaps the bad guys in Ironman, perhaps responsible for all of Indiana's troubles in the next Jones installment.  I am left with sadness, and a question I do not have an answer to:  Which is worse- that there are 900 movies portraying Arabs, and 50 portraying them positively; or that the majority of movies I have seen in my life are on Shaheen's list?greatest tragedy in The Siege is when Americans decide to remove freedom in place of security, as Benjamin Franklin said, \\"Any society which gives up it's freedom for the sake of security, deserves neither.\\"  The movie is writ on the backbone of our collective shame for what we did to the Japanese in World War II; and written on the collective forgetfulness we have as we now do the same thing to Arabs.    But small points, on a few movies.  Overall, it is impossible to come away from this book with the thought that Hollywood is at all equitable in it's treatment of groups, especially Semites.  It is impossible to view movies the same way again.  I wait with dread the next great production of Hollywood, where out of nowhere, Arabs will again appear as the caricatured, ignoramus villains- perhaps the bad guys in Ironman, perhaps responsible for all of Indiana's troubles in the next Jones installment.  I am left with sadness, and a question I do not have an answer to:  Which is worse- that there are 900 movies portraying Arabs, and 50 portraying them positively; or that the majority of movies I have seen in my life are on Shaheen's list?	2003-07-22
US	51761391	R1O8AH52SNP92F	9627060011	536126128	Moving Abroad: A Guide to International Living	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Helpful and Practical	From how to sell your home to how to prepare for tropical illnesses, this book has it all.  Here is everything you need to know for preparing to leave your home country, the trip to the new country, and how to set up life in the new country.  One will likely find, as I did, that there is far too much information here- in the sense that no one person needs it all.  I don't need to decide how to divest my stocks before I leave, or what kind of school to put my children in in the new country.  But that's the beauty of this book- pretty much anything you need to know for moving abroad, it's here.<br />McKay writes from a very American perspective, and so the book will be most helpful for Americans.  And this is general- other than a chapter on the particular difficulties in a tropical environment, you won't find anything here specific to your future country or area, other than empirical examples throughout the text.  But there's a process that all of us who are moving overseas go through, and this book gives you the step-by-step process.  How to decide to move, what to tell the children, what to do about taxes and papers, how to pack, how to deal with culture shock (and to expect it!), how to find a house, how to learn the language, how to do business in a new culture, how to hire help, how to use transportation, how to get medical help, how to go to other countries besides your host country, and more.  (By the way, this is a How To book.)  My copy is copiously underlined.<br />The one reservation I have about the book is that too often McKay assumes that the man is the bread-winner, sent by his company abroad, and the wife is taking care of the kids.  While in many cultures this may be necessary in order to adapt to the culture, McKay assumes this in all cases, and does not allow for moves to more progressive countries in situations where it is the *woman* who is sent by her company abroad.<br />Upon moving abroad, I'm going to come up against many problems- I mean opportunities.  And when I do, I'm going to turn to the requisite page in this book for a solution.pportunities.  And when I do, I'm going to turn to the requisite page in this book for a solution.	2003-06-29
US	51761391	R2K6XYDCU1N8DG	185788292X	212313271	Survival Kit for Overseas Living: For Americans Planning to Live and Work Abroad	Books	3	17	23	N	N	A bit of some redundancy, but immensely practical.	Survival Kit starts out a bit slow- it is helpful for someone who has done no studying of other cultures, and cross-cultural interactions.  Indeed, superbably so- what it means to be American, what other cultures are, how to relate to people.  But if you have studied anthropology or sociology or other cultures, you will find the first 2/3rds of the book largely old hat.  It's the final third that really gets into some profound detail.<br /><br />This final third is immensely practical, looking at how to recognize culture shock, how to deal with it, how to respond with love to others around you in your new culture.  Kohls presents interesting ideas on how we view the world, as individuals, though I must confess I am still experiencing a great deal of trauma at having to spend an hour to see a particular perspective of a picture he presents.  He then provides the cues we can expect within a new culture, even to the point of the likely dual-cyclic time periods of culture shock; how to deal with this as a family; and how to respond to reverse culture shock when you return \\"home\\".  I plan on looking back to this book at the appropriate time in about 3 months, when I am scheduled to enter my first bout of culture shock.	2003-06-25
US	51761391	R2EA3SFTAHLITL	1558686258	666320307	Morocco (Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Well, now I'm excited	After reading this book, now I'm all the more excited to go to Morocco.  Hargraves paints such a vivid picture of the people, the culture.  It is a complicated society, very foreign to my understanding and experience.  And yet, as I read through it, so many times, page after page, I realize that the culture is so familiar, so like my experience.  Most of all, I now understand that it will take a lifetime to learn to adapt to Moroccan culture.  I am eager to see how the words lift off the pages and into reality.<br /><br />Almost every page has nuggets and key points to learn and understand, and my copy is mostly yellow from highlighting.  One aspect that I wish were different, though- Hargraves appears too often to accept the stratification in Moroccan culture, and the mistreatment of the lower classes, as par the course, and something Moroccans accept, and therefore something that we should accept, and something culturally neutral.  There is so much good in Moroccan society, but, just as in any society, some that is not as good as well.<br /><br />But that's only one small detraction in an otherwise great text.  Particularly interesting is the quiz at the end of the book, where you test one's knowledge gained through reading.  I've never seen this in any other culture or travel book, and it should really be more common!  Hargraves doesn't just repeat information here either- rather, he asks the reader to intuit the answers not yet given, from the information that he's previously provided- and then of course, he provides all the possible correct answers.<br /><br />I want to learn how to live and eat and talk and think, Moroccan.  I want to see what it means to be a Moroccan who is so adept at adaptation to so many different cultural situations.  I want to learn to engage in real Arab relationship, and to learn how to politely refuse a request, and how to be a good guest, and a good host.  I want to learn how to serve the Moroccan peoples.  If you're interested in this as well, then this is a book you need to get.is a book you need to get.	2003-06-24
US	51761391	R2GW7P2LJBVYFO	0201489376	565946021	Dreams of Trespass: Tales of a Harem Girlhood	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Fantasy and the Hope	It is rare and hard to find a book like this.  So emic, so true, so feminine.  Through the simple stories of her life as a child, Mernissi shows us the falseness of Western stereotypes and the tragedy of Islamic sexism.  She shows us what a true harem is- the pure companionship of women, and not the sexual lasciviousness which the Western imagination dreamed up in it`s ideal of the exotic- in the process revealing far more the degradation of Western society than they anything true of Arabic culture.  But she writes with great honesty about her own people as well, and the control that a woman is constantly placed under, perceived as the \\"devouring vagina\\" (as she writes in another work, [[ASIN:0253204232 Beyond the Veil]]), needing to be controlled and put into it's place for the protection of men.  One sees here, not through telling, but through story, how Moroccan women have so little freedom to be who they desire in a world where all that is public is also male.  But we also see the beauty of women together in that same society, and through that, can dream.	2003-06-24
US	51761391	R1CEHRGV97BYMD	1877864153	466774893	Understanding Arabs: A Guide for Westerners (The Interact Series)	Books	5	6	13	N	N	It Changed My Life.	I first learned to fall in love with the Arab people through this book. As I delved into Islamic and Arabic culture studies, I came across Understanding Arabs, and was fascinated by what I found. A culture that put the group over the individual, that valued honor so highly, that had no word or concept for privacy (not as it is defined in American culture) . . . The more I read, the more God put them on my heart, and the more my heart became one with the Arab people, for here I found a culture so like my own. Over the years, in further reading and further experience, I've learned a lot more beyond Nydell's terse etic generalization of Arabic culture, but most of what she shares is accurate, and limited enough to be a very easy read, while making you pant for more. She writes with a Semitic style, sharing stories which illuminates the people far more than dry text. Come and read this book, and see for yourself the beginnings of a love affair with the Arab people.	2003-06-24
US	51761391	R6VUY0FR339R3	0671026925	743326572	Strange New Worlds, Vol. 2 (Star Trek)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	3.4705882352941176470588235294118	It's hard to rate an anthology.  My approach is to rate each individual story.  I came out with a ranking of 3.4705882352941176470588235294118.  But I find humans have trouble with too much precision, so I'll round it to 3.<br /><br />Some of the stories are less than equal, as you find in any anthology.  I'm not quite sure why Ribbon for Rosie, the story of 7 of 9's trip to the past, won the grand prize.  It doesn't seem as we well written, but perhaps because it suffers from now being outside of canon because of STV episodes after `99, when the book was written.  Similarly, the DS9 episodes are both pretty thick and difficult to get into- which is a shame, since DS9 has a lot of promise, such as stories about the completely unexplored Gamma quadrant, that was never explored in the series.  And while it was nice to see Dr. Taylor again from TVH, the TOS episodes start the book off a bit slow.  And Calculated Risk reminds me why Dr. Pulaski left the series, and why there aren't more stories about her.<br /><br />But on the very positive side, I Am Klingon finally provides a possible answer to- where did those foreheads come from?  Rand even does am amazing job of tying in all the various episodes that have skirted around this issue, in TOS, TNG, and DS9, as well as providing one answer to what actually happened between Deanna and Worf.  One story finally gets to that nagging question- if Wesley was studying with the Traveler in a Native American colony under the Cardassians, doesn't he then become a technical member of the Dominion, and if so, why isn't he helping in the war against the Dominion?  And two excellent time travel stories get to some of those questions of, if there is a Department of Temporal Investigations, fixing temporal incursions, how come there are still temporal incursions that have never been fixed?  Though the book as a whole isn't as highly rated, I'd definitely recommend it for these hints at possible paradoxi with Star Trek.<br /><br />And then there are the stories that touched me emotionally.  I Am Become Death is a haunting look at Data's life, pre-STN- one with that added twist that can make you cry.  I personally very appreciated two STV stories:  Touched, for it's etic anthropological look from the perspective of the other, and The Healing Arts, for stressing the importance of empathy, and interpathy, in healing.  Reciprocity is TNG story about *very* long wormholes, that is filled with poignancy and a feeling that, truly, All Good Things...s that touched me emotionally.  I Am Become Death is a haunting look at Data's life, pre-STN- one with that added twist that can make you cry.  I personally very appreciated two STV stories:  Touched, for it's etic anthropological look from the perspective of the other, and The Healing Arts, for stressing the importance of empathy, and interpathy, in healing.  Reciprocity is TNG story about *very* long wormholes, that is filled with poignancy and a feeling that, truly, All Good Things...	2003-06-20
US	51761391	R133SHQG0GR6ZR	0664256163	179972866	Pastoral Counseling Across Cultures	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Augsburger does it again!	A phenomenally well written book.  Once again, I feel swamped with information, not because of poor writing style, but because there is just so much here, with so many connections, and so intelligently written.  On the level of Finnegan's Wake or the Bible in the myriad of connections.<br />Augsburger looks at how counseling can and should be done cross-culturally, respecting the person's culture, and yet helping them through the issues that are important to them.  He describes pastoral counseling emically at one point, as something where the counselor describes up-front what he or she is about, and where their interests lie.  This is an overtly Christian book, with an overtly Christian intent- but also something that non-Christians could learn a lot from.<br />The book then goes through many interesting turns, looking at different aspects of culture.  Such as, how do you counsel a culture that is shame-based, or anxiety-based, as opposed to guilt-based (Asian, African, and American cultures respectively).  Shame and anxiety are not bad, but different, and he talks in a very interesting twist about how Americans have a very undeveloped sense of shame.  He looks at the interplay of the individual vs. the group- how some cultures see themselves as groups completely.  How is effective counseling done to them?<br />I particularly salute Augsburger on two points.  He pulls no punches when it comes to women, describing how they are oppressed in different ways in nearly every society, forming a culture often separate, and in nearly every society, needing empowerment and enfranchisement.<br />And Augsburger takes a whole chapter to look at the nature of the demonic and the supernatural, fully accepting their presence, and yet not advocating that there is a \\"demon under every doily\\".  He speaks of Heibert's \\"excluded middle\\", wherein the West has a high view of God, and a morality for everyday life, but no longer believes in the interplay between the two, the supernatural.  The 2/3rds world is very aware of this excluded middle, and deals with it daily.  So therefore also does Augsburger.  He carefully points out that not everything is demonic- indeed, most is psychological.  But there are also places, and times, when one runs into and needs to deal with the demonic, and to be prepared for it.  To do otherwise would be to not fully appreciate and accept the culture on it's own terms, but rather to try to impose Western etic beliefs on the other culture.  Which is only further imperialism, and indeed, in the end, racism.<br />As someone who grew up in another culture, a kinship society, I often feel that therapy does not meet my needs.  Likewise, Western therapy would say that there needs to be a healthy amount of privacy between people, when we were very public.  And it seeks to empower me as an individual, when I am not, but the embodiment of a group.  And it seeks to destroy my sense of shame, which is actually a healthy part of my people.  I could use a therapist whose read this book.  And at the same time, as I prepare to live in North Africa, this book provides much helpful advice on how to reach out therapeutically to those who are different, within 2/3rds world cultures, revealing to them their own selves, and what they desire or need to know.<br />I'd highly recommend Augsberger's Conflict Mediation Across Cultures, which explores many of these same themes.  And B.J. Prashantham's Indian Case Studies in Therapeutic Counseling as well.  B.J. uses his own experiences as an Indian therapist, relating to those within his culture or other cultures in India, providing a very emic perspective on these questions of the nature of conflict and resolution.l.  The 2/3rds world is very aware of this excluded middle, and deals with it daily.  So therefore also does Augsburger.  He carefully points out that not everything is demonic- indeed, most is psychological.  But there are also places, and times, when one runs into and needs to deal with the demonic, and to be prepared for it.  To do otherwise would be to not fully appreciate and accept the culture on it's own terms, but rather to try to impose Western etic beliefs on the other culture.  Which is only further imperialism, and indeed, in the end, racism.<br />As someone who grew up in another culture, a kinship society, I often feel that therapy does not meet my needs.  Likewise, Western therapy would say that there needs to be a healthy amount of privacy between people, when we were very public.  And it seeks to empower me as an individual, when I am not, but the embodiment of a group.  And it seeks to destroy my sense of shame, which is actually a healthy part of my people.  I could use a therapist whose read this book.  And at the same time, as I prepare to live in North Africa, this book provides much helpful advice on how to reach out therapeutically to those who are different, within 2/3rds world cultures, revealing to them their own selves, and what they desire or need to know.<br />I'd highly recommend Augsberger's Conflict Mediation Across Cultures, which explores many of these same themes.  And B.J. Prashantham's Indian Case Studies in Therapeutic Counseling as well.  B.J. uses his own experiences as an Indian therapist, relating to those within his culture or other cultures in India, providing a very emic perspective on these questions of the nature of conflict and resolution.	2003-06-18
US	51761391	RA3WPI8S6IO5D	081560601X	648743194	The 60s Communes: Hippies and Beyond (Syracuse Studies on Peace and Conflict Resolution)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	It's like going home again.	I grew up in a Jesus Freak commune, the Highway Missionaries, one of five communes I've lived in my life.  The first commune I was born into, Jesus People Milwaukee, is actually mentioned (though not by name) as the precursor of Jesus People USA, JePUSA, in this book.  So I came into this book with a high degree of interest, hoping to see something familiar, and learn new insights into myself, and how we were.<br />I was not disappointed.  This is a top-notch book, well-written, scrupulously researched, sociological and  anthropological, a wealth of information.  Miller's primary purpose is to look at 60's communes in general, of which he says the Jesus People were perhaps the largest single contingent, but still a minority overall.  The book not only mentions many different groups, giving a brief blurb on them, but ties them together in genuine scholarly treatment, so that we learn how the different aspects of various groups fit in an overall framework.<br />Miller's treatment of daily life in community and children from communes was very on-target, as was his look at the eventual dissolution of the communal movement, and what happened to the millions involved in it afterward.  This is not an easy topic, as there was a wide variety of communes:  Jesus People, environmental, anarchist, LSD,  Sufi, Jewish , Hindu, Krishna, and middle-class communes, to name a few.  Yet he is able to combine all these diverse elements into an overall thesis, while still treating each type unique.  He makes a strong point that many communes are not covered in his treatment, and of the 1000's that existed in this time period, many don't even have any written record any longer.<br />I think I'd bring up only one minor flaw- his discussion of us, Jesus People Milwaukee, was not entirely correct, as we were neither fundamentalist (but more in line in thinking with Sojourners), nor reaching out to youth, but a Discipleship Training School for young adults.<br />It is true, as Miller says, most of us in the communes were unaware of what was going on in other communes.  It seemed to be just a spontaneous move all around the nation, and to those within the Jesus Movement, a spontaneous move of the Holy Spirit.  It was something that had a huge impact on our lives, as Miller describes, and something that continues to highly impact the culture today.ost of us in the communes were unaware of what was going on in other communes.  It seemed to be just a spontaneous move all around the nation, and to those within the Jesus Movement, a spontaneous move of the Holy Spirit.  It was something that had a huge impact on our lives, as Miller describes, and something that continues to highly impact the culture today.	2003-06-18
US	51761391	R3KZ74AMD4UTS2	0664256090	196822495	Conflict Mediation Across Cultures: Pathways and Patterns	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Seminal	Augsberger writes of the many different ways that cultures interact with each other, and how cultures approach conflict. There are many ways to approach conflict: different approaches to gender conflict, different beliefs on the nature of shame and \\"saving face\\", different ideas on what is effective resolution- and all are equally valid, with both good and evil in the different cultures, and the different methods.<br />On one level Augsberger is highly readable. He begins each chapter with numerous stories and fables from different cultures on the various conflicts- myths which are highly illuminating, teaching about cultures and about the nature of conflict, as only parables can. Interspersed in each chapter are many other stories and sharings from real life.<br />However, Augsberger may be one of the most intelligent authors I have ever read. He brings in *so* much, from so many different disciplines, that one feels swamped with information, all integrated in web-like structure, much as most of us feel on reading Finnegan's Wake. It's incredibly well-written, with multi-layers to a Biblical degree, but Augsberger's a lot smarter than I am (and I don't say that often), and this book is *thick*. You'll enjoy it, but read it slowly, and gain the depths and the heights of the change he has to offer.<br />I'd highly recommend Augsberger's Pastoral Counseling Across Cultures, which explores many of these same themes.  And B.J. Prashantham's Indian Case Studies in Therapeutic Counseling as well.  B.J. uses his own experiences as an Indian therapist, relating to those within his culture or other cultures in India, providing a very emic perspective on these questions of the nature of conflict and resolution.	2003-06-10
US	51761391	R3EZHF7GJ1G7BW	0571148646	853139106	The Palestinian Catastrophe: The 1948 Expulsion of a People From Their Homeland	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Horrifying	It is amazing to read of the level of atrocity and deceit. Ethnic Cleansing, Localized Genocide, Rampant Racism- it reads like something out of Nazi Germany. But here it is, in the middle of the Middle East, anti-Semitism, committed by Jews against Arabs. Brother against Brother. Palumbo shares with us stories of those who helped the Jews flee the Nazis, and how these same individuals watch the actions of the nascent Israeli Defense Forces, and can see no difference in their actions. Truly, as Walter Wink said, we become that which we hate. We learn hatred, and the practices of hatred, from our enemies. And here one repeatedly hears leaders of the Zionist movement explicitly calling for the same practices as the Nazis, as they worked so well, and even calling for alliances with the Nazis, in order to establish a country 'Goyim Rein', an 'Israel for the Jews, as Germany is for the Germans'.<br />And it is surprising to hear how most Jews in the first half of the 20th century did *not* want an Israeli nation, as they did not see that as part of God's call for their people. Or how leader after modern Israeli leader engaged in explicit terrorist action- in fact, most of them were on the top 20 list of terrorists by the British government, during the British mandate. Doing the same practices, the same suicide bombings, as extremist Palestinians do today. We become that which we hate. And it's not just Palumbo's opinion- this is a meticulously researched book. If you choose to disagree with what is said, you must prove a large number of resources wrong- including many resources from Israeli government leaders.<br />This isn't just dry history. Palumbo uses a highly readable format, telling stories through the eyes of the observers and the victims, with additional factual information. Yet he does it in a way that is in now way fictional, but breathes authenticity. He looks primarily at the infamous al nakba, the Catastrophe, wherein the Palestinians were driven from their homeland- a people uniquely tied in self-identity to the land, just as Americans are tied to their sense of the individual in their identities. I reside, therefore I am.<br />Insult to injury is the Zionist propaganda machine, that has managed to shift the blame for wartime atrocities on to the victims. After reading this work, one may come away with the same feeling- that truly, Israel has been one of the primary leaders in terrorism.<br />To read more, I'd recommend Wink's Engaging the Powers, as well as Dying in the Land of Promise. Don Wagner focuses here on the history of Christian Palestinians, from the year 33 to the present, and how they were driven away during al nakba, and their experiences afterward.homeland- a people uniquely tied in self-identity to the land, just as Americans are tied to their sense of the individual in their identities. I reside, therefore I am. <br />Insult to injury is the Zionist propaganda machine, that has managed to shift the blame for wartime atrocities on to the victims. After reading this work, one may come away with the same feeling- that truly, Israel has been one of the primary leaders in terrorism. <br />To read more, I'd recommend Wink's Engaging the Powers, as well as Dying in the Land of Promise. Don Wagner focuses here on the history of Christian Palestinians, from the year 33 to the present, and how they were driven away during al nakba, and their experiences afterward.	2003-06-10
US	51761391	R29WCF47C5Q3X5	0471842699	401336873	Counseling the Culturally Different: Theory and Practice	Books	5	30	35	N	N	Therapy, finally, beginning to reach the rest of the world..	An amazing textbook that you can read with interest from cover to cover, Counseling the Culturally Different (and it's updated version, Counseling the Culturally Diverse) will provide a basis for understanding how to reach out and provide effective therapy to those outside the European-American milieu. I've often complained to my brother Kent, a therapist, that so much of modern therapy is focused on European-American culture, and I find it difficult to relate to or come to understanding in my own therapy, as I come from a kinship society. Then I came upon this class, Counseling in Cross-Cultural Situations, in order to prepare for future counseling possibilities in Morocco, and read this book.<br />Too often therapy, for all it's benefits, is focused on one specific culture, and especially on the American psyche. Sue & Sue look at how one deals with other cultures, with many great short case studies that help the imagination as one contemplates therapeutic possibilities. Some of what they look at are shame vs. guilt cultures- how do you work with someone from a shame culture to instill in them a healthy sense of shame? Such an approach would of course be detrimental to someone from a guilt culture, like the U.S.- but it's equally detrimental to *not* pursue shame when working with a shame culture. Or how do you deal with someone coming from a culture where the group is more important than the individual? Modern psychotherapy which focuses on making one more of an individual needs to be substantially remodeled for this group, for making someone from a kinship society an individual only harms them. Not only does this book help me to better understand my own therapy process; it has given me invaluable tools for future counseling possibilities when working with those in the 2/3rds world.<br />Sue & Sue look at different specific populations as well- African-Americans, Latinos, Asian-Americans, Native-Americans, the elderly, and the handicapped. They provide invaluable processi by which every group can come to learn to appreciate the wider society that they're in, and how they can learn to adapt to the wider culture while fully appreciating their own. The one flaw I'd find in this edition- Sue & Sue's take on European-American psychological progression is only looking at coming to a place of understanding other cultures; there is no part there for learning to appreciate one's own (European-American) heritage, as there is for the other ethnic groups.<br />I'd highly recommend Augsburger's Pastoral Counseling Across Cultures as well- though a very thick and detailed book, it adds much more meat to the backbone of Sue & Sue. And B.J. Prashantham's Indian Case Studies in Therapeutic Counseling gives very basic ideas for those who don't have much background in therapy. B.J. uses his own experiences as an Indian therapist, relating to those within his culture or other cultures in India, providing a very emic perspective on these questions.processi by which every group can come to learn to appreciate the wider society that they're in, and how they can learn to adapt to the wider culture while fully appreciating their own. The one flaw I'd find in this edition- Sue & Sue's take on European-American psychological progression is only looking at coming to a place of understanding other cultures; there is no part there for learning to appreciate one's own (European-American) heritage, as there is for the other ethnic groups.<br />I'd highly recommend Augsburger's Pastoral Counseling Across Cultures as well- though a very thick and detailed book, it adds much more meat to the backbone of Sue & Sue. And B.J. Prashantham's Indian Case Studies in Therapeutic Counseling gives very basic ideas for those who don't have much background in therapy. B.J. uses his own experiences as an Indian therapist, relating to those within his culture or other cultures in India, providing a very emic perspective on these questions.	2003-05-30
US	51761391	R37A3JXX6JLX4O	0387989161	127452876	The Planiverse: Computer Contact with a Two-Dimensional World	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Are you sure this is all there is?	When I was in high-school I had a very intelligent and immensely helpful English teacher, who taught me much of what writing skill I possess today.  He came in highly excited one morning, to share with us about a new book he'd come across.  Evidently, they had, through a computer, discovered an entirely new reality, that was two-dimensional!  And this was an actual event, cutting edge stuff.<br />Well, a few days later, he came in, quite chagrined, to tell us that, as he read further through the book, he realized it was a work of fiction.  But his description had been interesting enough to motivate me to read the book.<br />The Planiverse's reality is that real, and supported by that much scientific and mathematical principle- Dewdney has done his research, to bring us one of the most delightful what-ifs I've found.  Imagine reality just like ours, but take out the third dimension.  Everything is well supported, every area of life covered, and the drawings immensely helpful.  You truly begin to feel for all the characters in the book.  But it's not just an exercise in mathematical possibility.  It is a rich story, telling of spiritual journey and insight, as Yendred travels to find his answers.  And I still remember the ending as grippingly and eerily numinous, as we realize how closely the Planiverse and our Universe are connected, and how limited we are in comparison to the Eternal.	2003-04-30
US	51761391	R2ZVNSU2RAAEQT	9997518861	6201476	Down Where the Moon Is Small	Books	3	19	20	N	N	The Quintessential Three	In a book very deserving of a three out of five, Huw here continues his journeys in in Patagonia, Argentina, but inland, in another valley different from the one he grew up in in South Wales, one populated by Indios, Welsh immigrants, Spaniard descendents, and Spanish-Indio mixed.  He pursues the love of his life, Lal, and a whole bunch of other women, and ends up marrying Lal, and pursuing a whole bunch of other women.  This is the third of four in the How Green Was My Valley series, and it's difficult.  In the first novel Huw is a young boy and teenager in a South Wales mining town, and he is very relatable, very sympathetic.  But in the second novel, and increasingly so in the third, he's just plain lecherous.  Though married, he seems to have no will power, and must have sex with any woman that appears pretty and crosses his path!  This makes him much more difficult to relate to.  And raises some interesting questions.  Up Where the Moon is Small is one thing if Llewellyn is trying to portray Huw sympathetically.  Quite another if he is the protagonist but not the hero.  The difficulty is that in the first novel, he was very much the hero.<br />It may be that this novel explores the change that occurs in life, when someone we like very much gradually develops into someone despicable, who we can not relate to, and who lacks real love, thinking only of himself.  Repeatedly in the novel, Huw describes his love for Lal, but what he's actually describing is simply his love for women in general, sex, and companionship for himself that he might not be lonely.  This is especially seen in the final 100 pages of the novel.  Because of the lack of easy character identification, I can easily see why this novel alone of the four is no longer in print, and available used only at high rates.<br />And I Shall Sleep Down Where the Moon is Small (the alternate title) starts slow in the first 100 pages, but picks up a great deal in the final third of the novel.  Llewellyn does an amazing job of portraying the horror of racism and ethnic cleansing as we follow the plight of the native Indios with the emerging modern Argentine government.  He also does a great job of getting into the details of the Welsh mind and language, so by the end, you are thinking in Gaelic (or Cambrian) English.  But hard it is to understand at times therefore- I still don't know what \\"Go push thumbs!\\" means, though I think it's not complimentary.amazing job of portraying the horror of racism and ethnic cleansing as we follow the plight of the native Indios with the emerging modern Argentine government.  He also does a great job of getting into the details of the Welsh mind and language, so by the end, you are thinking in Gaelic (or Cambrian) English.  But hard it is to understand at times therefore- I still don't know what \\"Go push thumbs!\\" means, though I think it's not complimentary.	2003-04-27
US	51761391	R104TSHRT7233T	0671038591	450886029	How Much for Just the Planet? (Star Trek, No 36)	Books	1	6	28	N	N	Flaunts False Funniness, Searching Success Soley in Silliness	When my little brother was five, his favorite joke in the whole world was, \\"A pig walks under a ladder, and red paint spills all over him.\\" That's about the kind of humor you'll find in \\"How Much for Just the Planet?\\"<br /><br />This novel has a promising start, realistic but with twinges of humor, and I was really looking forward to reading it. But it quickly degenerates into a quagmire of stupidity. I was hoping for something at the level of [[ASIN:B000083C49 TVH]], but Ford seems to be attempting something more like [[ASIN:0345391802 Hitchhiker's Guide]] within the Star Trek universe, yet lacking Douglas Adams' writing abilities. In this book Klingons don't act like Klingons, Vulcans don't act like Vulcans, and I have no idea who the humans are emulating- certainly no one I've ever known. Most of the book made no sense, and I found I had to skim large sections of rather boring banter in the final 7/8ths of the book- which includes an incredibly disappointing ending. Interspersed with this is a large number of very annoying songs, also intended to be humorous. Most of what is meant to be funny is like a bad [[ASIN:B000SSQ7JW Three Stooges]] sketch. At no point are many key aspects of the visited planet's culture addressed, like how they happen to have a culture like 1970's America (complete with all the social references of the time) or who the repeatedly mentioned Ancients are. I'd best describe this novel as something an eight-year-old child might enjoy, if they had some parts explained to them. Actually, come to think of it, it could have worked as a [[ASIN:B000HEWEJ4 TAS]] episode.<br /><br />The most redeeming feature of this novel- I didn't pay for it. I borrowed it from the library.	2003-04-12
US	51761391	R1XIOVGH9MXE98	1557253153	17719144	The First Christmas Tree: Other Stories	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Legend	Van Dyke does not write story, or myth, but legend. You feel it in every pulse of his words, and every dwelling of his thoughts, that here is something greater than everyday life, which exists within the day to day, but is of a time far removed, much like our own time. His prose is beauty, and I find myself repeatedly returning to phrases and turns of idea and sentences, catching myself on the profundity of thought which I had not originally realized in the first reading, but now needed to steep myself within the understanding that Van Dyke experienced. I know of few authors that compare to his wonder at the world and the word, causing us as his readers to learn appreciation and know the beautiful.<br /><br />I read this book at a time of sorrow and disappointment, when the plans I so desired were astray, and my hopes seemingly demolished. I needed encouragement, and to dream again. Here I learned to dream of power encounters and new trees, and the wonder of the power of love that at first only the angels see. The occasional pictures are resplendently simple, encouraging imagination rather than stealing it away. After the stories, a short sermon on the giving of gifts, which did not feel at all sermonizing or patronizing, but rather wonderful words, on how to care. And lastly, needed Christmas prayers, for those at home, and for the lonely- not sentimental, but prayers which stimulate growth just in the very reading.	2003-04-01
US	51761391	R3PE2XI7UAGHNC	0896224791	197927230	Earthspirit: A Handbook for Nurturing an Ecological Christianity	Books	2	19	26	N	Y	Disappointing	I read this book to determine if Dowd should come share The Great Story at my church, as he is in the habit of doing around the U.S.  Dowd writes with a profound mixture of poetry and prose and philosophy. He uses many great quotes from a wide dispersal of fields to support his key contentions: that we need a new cosmology to describe our relationship to God and the planet. I appreciated many of the thoughts of those quoted, and some of Dowd's thoughts on the rethinking of who we are in the cosmos: we are the consciousness of the earth, the only part of the earth capable of self-reflection.<br />I wish he had pursued this line of thinking more. I was excited about this book, hoping for a look deep into biological evolution, and how it can show for us the nature of God in Jesus, as He created this very process. There is very little material out there about biological evolution as it relates to Christianity, and even less on how we can use it as devotion, teaching about who God is.<br />But unfortunately, after a promising start Dowd begins to develop more an understanding of evolution in the general sense- a common mistake of laymen, confusing the specific process of biological evolution with the larger word \\"evolution\\", describing a change or progression. Indeed, biological evolution is specifically not positive progression, but simply change, in continuous adaptation, as Stephen Jay Gould so convincingly shows us. Dowd however runs with the idea of evolution in a more metaphorical manner, suggesting that our ideas and understanding of who God calls us to be in relation to the earth need to change, become better, and \\"evolve\\". In doing this he relies on the common interpretation of scripture as a \\"schoolhouse of faith\\"- certainly a very helpful and acceptable exegesis of the Old and New Testament, but causing great confusion when combined with the idea that we are continuously philosophically evolving. For at that point, Dowd would call us to go beyond what we find in the Bible, to something better, while still not denying the Bible (in his words), for it is still our foundation, just as the Old Testament was the foundation for the New. It becomes then a clever way of denial of the truths in the Bible.<br />By the end of the book, Dowd is advocating that we are all part of God, and that God is all things. He moves from Panentheism (God in all things) to Pantheism, and from ecumenicalism to universalism. All ways are equally valid ways to God, for God is in all things, and all moments and places are God- we just need to see that. Such beliefs are not Christianity. Sadly, rather than using Christian beliefs and scriptures to bring us to a new understanding of what those beliefs and scriptures say, it seems more that Dowd seeks to use the beliefs and scriptures to prove his own points, as if he knows that there is a certain segment of society that will not believe what he has to say unless he uses these instruments. And so he subtly changes the meanings of some quotes- while Paul calls us to be transformed by the renewing of our minds, Dowd calls us to *renew* our minds. While Athanasius would say \\"Christ became human that we might become divine.\\", Dowd quotes him as saying, \\"Christ became human that we might become God.\\" There's a cosmos of difference in those two words. In the end Dowd seems much more comfortable with the Gospel of Thomas than with the actual Gospels, and indeed ends up quoting Thomas.<br />There is that to be said for this book- it gave me new insights, and provided me with a new cosmology, of thinking of myself more fully part of this planet, the thinking part, and not wholly separate. But Dowd goes too far off into netherworlds of belief and science to be all that his writing could be.in the Bible, to something better, while still not denying the Bible (in his words), for it is still our foundation, just as the Old Testament was the foundation for the New. It becomes then a clever way of denial of the truths in the Bible.<br />By the end of the book, Dowd is advocating that we are all part of God, and that God is all things. He moves from Panentheism (God in all things) to Pantheism, and from ecumenicalism to universalism. All ways are equally valid ways to God, for God is in all things, and all moments and places are God- we just need to see that. Such beliefs are not Christianity. Sadly, rather than using Christian beliefs and scriptures to bring us to a new understanding of what those beliefs and scriptures say, it seems more that Dowd seeks to use the beliefs and scriptures to prove his own points, as if he knows that there is a certain segment of society that will not believe what he has to say unless he uses these instruments. And so he subtly changes the meanings of some quotes- while Paul calls us to be transformed by the renewing of our minds, Dowd calls us to *renew* our minds. While Athanasius would say \\"Christ became human that we might become divine.\\", Dowd quotes him as saying, \\"Christ became human that we might become God.\\" There's a cosmos of difference in those two words. In the end Dowd seems much more comfortable with the Gospel of Thomas than with the actual Gospels, and indeed ends up quoting Thomas.<br />There is that to be said for this book- it gave me new insights, and provided me with a new cosmology, of thinking of myself more fully part of this planet, the thinking part, and not wholly separate. But Dowd goes too far off into netherworlds of belief and science to be all that his writing could be.	2003-04-01
US	51761391	R2WR7VZS9C1CFN	0698202465	862935397	Salute! The Case of The Bible vs. The Flag (Great Constitutional Issues: The First Amendment)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Of Stories Untold	Here's a story that more people need to hear.  A quick read, Salute! tells the story of the Jehovah's Witnesses who refused to salute the flag in the first half on the century, because it went against their religious beliefs.  They believed it was an idol, and worship of another god, and allegiance to any state other than the Kingdom was forbidden by God.  For this, they had laxatives poured down their mouths in order to facilitate internal bleeding, were repeatedly attacked and assaulted, had their children expelled from school, were tarred and feathered, forced out of towns, and \\"castrated and maimed\\".  A plethora of laws arose in the United States requiring people to salute the American flag.  Once a child did not salute, they were expelled.  If they were not in school, the parents were fined for not putting their children in school.  Stevens gives interesting tidbits, like how a right-hand raised salute to the flag was common in the 40's, until Nazi Germany changed that image forever.  And yet ironically, Witnesses were accused of being Nazis for their lack of salute.<br /><br />Stevens presents a well-researched history of Witnesses' fight to follow their religion and the First Amendment.  He goes into great detail on the legal histories, which in the process make it all the way to the Supreme Court.  Where the court decides 8:1 in favor of requiring children to salute, and fining parents who did not make their children do so.  But in a rare of rare twists, the one dissenter leads to the possibility of a new case, where the Supreme Court has the opportunity to reverse its own ruling.<br /><br />As someone who has never saluted the flag, because I too believe my allegiance belongs to God alone, because I do not support patriotism, and because I will not take any kind of oath, I am grateful beyond words for what the Witnesses did in laying down their lives so that I might have this right.  Though I don't agree with them theologically, their fortitude and integrity allowed for greater freedom for us all.eater freedom for us all.	2003-03-27
US	51761391	R2PDQV8ZYEUUR	0671038532	488142897	The Final Reflection (Star Trek, No 16)	Books	2	2	14	N	N	Unresolved and Confusing	Most of this book lacked clarity. The entire first third- the first unit- was extremely confusing, with unclear characters who constantly changed, whose focal points were games that were not fully explained. By the second unit, even the names of the main characters had changed. But things pick up more by the second unit, as a Klingon commander shuttles a federation ambassador to the Klingon homeworld.<br />Difficulties continue in reading this text. Part of the problem is no fault of the author- written in 1984, so much has developed in our understanding of Klingon culture, appearance, and thought that we did not know at that time. Kahless, it's even written before TNG! So the cover shows the old TOS Klingons. But it's not just how they look- all kinds of information about Klingons has developed since then, like there code of honor, their attitudes towards war, their relationships, the name of their homeworld, their beliefs of Stobol Kohr and the afterlife- all this is different in this book, outside of canon. Ford comes up with an intriguing way around this, certainly. He describes the main plotline as a fictionalized history story that Captain Kirk starts reading. So any differences between the story and the reality can be explained away. But there are so many differences that, with an awareness of Klingon culture, it is difficult to follow this book.<br />And sadly, the ending is very confusing. Many key questions that one has about the characters remain unanswered, but the author acts as if they have been answered. After reading the text, one is left with the feeling that you really have no idea what species the main characters are (despite that being a lifelong quest of the characters), why and how the primary mission occurred at all, what missions Klingons completed on earth, and how in the end everything is resolved.<br />Ford proposes a possible answer to a question not even yet posed at the time of the writing, before TNG- why do the Klingon's foreheads change shape? One possible answer- interbreeding with Humans, Vulcans, etc. But even this is not as fully described as it should be. And in this time of war I also greatly appreciated the focus of one of the main characters on trying to establish peace at all times, speaking with Klingons of how one can have honor without even ever carrying a weapon. Some Klingons today could learn from that.ange shape? One possible answer- interbreeding with Humans, Vulcans, etc. But even this is not as fully described as it should be. And in this time of war I also greatly appreciated the focus of one of the main characters on trying to establish peace at all times, speaking with Klingons of how one can have honor without even ever carrying a weapon. Some Klingons today could learn from that.	2003-03-25
US	51761391	R2IQBV115W52SN	0198267444	385503318	The Church of the East and the Church of England: A History of the Archbishop of Canterbury's Assyrian Mission	Books	2	6	13	N	N	Boring	This book has little to commend itself, and less to recommend itself with.  I had high hopes, wanting to read about this fabulous church, the largest in the world until 1000 AD, with one million people, spread throughout the Middle East, Central Asia, China, India, and maybe even Japan and SE Asia.  But the writing is very poor, and not gripping.  And the author seems lost without a main point.  It is as if he did a lot of research on the relationship between the Anglican and ancient Nestorian Church, and then dumped it all out, without any clear format or guiding principle.  It is chronologically written, in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, but there is no main point by which the author displays his data.  When reading a research book, I expect that it is not just a catalogue of research, but guided by a point the author is trying to communicate.  I couldn't see this point, and it made for very boring reading, in many different directions.<br /><br />Coakley writes about the coming of the Anglican Church to revitalize the ancient Nestorian/Assyrian Church/Church of the East/Church of Theodore of Mopsuetia.  (They have a number of names.)  The Anglican Church desired not to proselytize or convert the ancient church to the Anglican beliefs, but to revitalize a church that had become stagnant, with the leaders having no care for God, the people knowing little of faith or belief, and the hierarchy becoming hereditary rather than by merit.  But this history seems mostly filled with what I can only describe as gossip.  The Anglicans seem to have mostly difficulty with other missions, like the despised American Protestants, and see the Assyrians as a backward people, with little redemption.  They go there to educate, but face constant obstacles, which seem mostly of their own making, for not truly valuing the people inn the Nestorian Church.  Though they claim to not want to proselytize, they end up trying to get the ancient church to change it's beliefs to come in line with the rest of Christendom.  (The Assyrians' Christology believes Christ is \\"two natures, two persons\\"- but it's not entirely clear what that means in the context of Syriac, their liturgical language, and within their culture.)  I desired to read about stories of people coming to God and God's great work, and behold, gossip.  I wanted to hear about the changes wrought by this mission within the politics of the region, and behold, random imperialistic pericope.<br /><br />Two stars, for the last chapter, where we finally get some stories, and some more clear interaction of this ancient church with the rest of the world.  And in the final chapter we learn that, in the 1930's, the ancient Nestorian people in large part fled the area due to massacres by Kurdish and Turkish troops.  When they sought to return to their homeland, they faced great difficulties, because Turkey now controlled the region.  They ended up settling in Mosul, but again faced new difficulties, because the new Iraqi regime, created by the European powers, now controlled Mosul, and the Arabs were in the majority.  Some worked to create an independent Assyrian land covering much of Kurdistan, including Mosul, but it came to naught.  And so many of the ancient Assyrians, including their patriarch, moved to the United States.  The only ancient church with the patriarchate in the U.S. is the Assyrian, based in Chicago.  A remnant is left in modern-day Iraq/Iran/Turkey, what is called Kurdistan, and is currently being bombed in Mosul by the Americans and the British, who once came to revitalize their church.line with the rest of Christendom.  (The Assyrians' Christology believes Christ is \\"two natures, two persons\\"- but it's not entirely clear what that means in the context of Syriac, their liturgical language, and within their culture.)  I desired to read about stories of people coming to God and God's great work, and behold, gossip.  I wanted to hear about the changes wrought by this mission within the politics of the region, and behold, random imperialistic pericope.<br /><br />Two stars, for the last chapter, where we finally get some stories, and some more clear interaction of this ancient church with the rest of the world.  And in the final chapter we learn that, in the 1930's, the ancient Nestorian people in large part fled the area due to massacres by Kurdish and Turkish troops.  When they sought to return to their homeland, they faced great difficulties, because Turkey now controlled the region.  They ended up settling in Mosul, but again faced new difficulties, because the new Iraqi regime, created by the European powers, now controlled Mosul, and the Arabs were in the majority.  Some worked to create an independent Assyrian land covering much of Kurdistan, including Mosul, but it came to naught.  And so many of the ancient Assyrians, including their patriarch, moved to the United States.  The only ancient church with the patriarchate in the U.S. is the Assyrian, based in Chicago.  A remnant is left in modern-day Iraq/Iran/Turkey, what is called Kurdistan, and is currently being bombed in Mosul by the Americans and the British, who once came to revitalize their church.	2003-03-23
US	51761391	R3VW7L2E8GX7SX	0882661361	339426434	Small-Scale Pig Raising	Books	5	19	26	N	N	Chant de Coeur	Back when I had my pet pig, Charlotte, I read through this book cover to cover, and found it immensely helpful.  Van Loon doesn't treat pigs as merely something you raise for meat, although he covers the aspects of commercial use.  He looks at them as social special animals in their own right.  He discusses the wild pigs, the history of the pig, their behavior, and how to raise them with care.  There are great pictures of Chinese Pigs and innovative ways to feed and house them.  The one drawback is his regrettable refusal to believe in the high intelligence of pigs.  We raise them for food, but they are the most intelligent domesticated animals, and generally considered the 3rd most intelligent group of animals (after Primata and Cetacea).  But what other book is out there that teaches the language of pigs and the words they use, including how to accurately use the pig mating call, which sounds like the French \\"Song of Love\\"- \\"chant de coeur\\"?  This is a book to make one fall in love with the pig, expressing to them, as I often did to Charlotte, \\"Chant de coeur\\".	2003-03-15
US	51761391	R2YORMB05XCIJL	0962872555	804077667	Probably More Than You Want to Know About the Fishes of the Pacific Coast	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Fish are Funny!	Without a doubt, the funniest taxonomic work on Ichthyology you will ever come across- and extremely and extensively informative to boot. Even the preface is a delight to read, where Love discusses the intelligence of fish (stupider than the stupidest mouse to ever live), if fish sleep, how their names relate to Communism, if they will harm us emotionally, and Love's relative intelligence when compared to other marine biologists. Then he goes through, fish by fish, all the main species off the Pacific Coast, from BC to SoCal. (If you're looking for fish from the Gulf of Alaska, you will be disappointed.) He begins with Myxini and Petromyzone, moves to Chondrichthyes, and then onto Osteichthyes. (Hagfish, Lampreys, Sharks and Rays, and Bony Fish- for fish are actually four different creatures, as separate from each other as Amphibians, Reptiles, Birds, and Mammals are from each other.) Each section looks at the identifying characteristics, distribution, anatomy, commercial fishery, and extra tidbits, still with that trademark humor. And then there's a bit of the parasitic at the tail end of the book. Perhaps my favorite line: \\"Your average hagfish can take a bucket full of water and almost solidify it with slime in a few minutes. (I don't know about you, but that makes me proud to be American.)\\"	2003-03-15
US	51761391	R3IKDEUERQKWII	0064635813	578415452	Barnes and Noble Thesaurus of Biology: The Principles of Biology Explained and Illustrated	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Biologist's Dictionary	Well, it's like a dictionary, but all about Biology.  And when you're studying Biology, and come across a term you don't know, in a text for a class or just in reading for one's own enjoyment, this is much more helpful than many glossaries.  Items are arranged alphabetically in the back and by subject throughout the text.  Numerous pictures and diagrams help give a more expansive idea of the term.  If you've ever used a dictionary, and you study Biology, you need this book.	2003-03-15
US	51761391	R2N1XN1OSMAHKE	0878915141	493977591	Biology Problem Solver (Problem Solvers Solution Guides)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Must For Every Biology Student	For the buck, the best aid that you'll get in studying biology.  Books like Campbell are good, but they cost over twice as much, and don't tell you as much.  The Biology Problem Solver basically covers every bit about Biology, in a very organized fashion.  It's question and answer format helps direct one's queries and thoughts.  Sections that I find particularly interesting, like on ecology and invertebrates, I learned a good deal more about.  Sections I find less interesting, like cellular and molecular biology, were illuminating and very easy to understand.  I have particularly enjoyed the evolutionary diagrams and taxonomic lists at the end of the text.  When I needed to study in undergrad, this book was invaluable, and the sample tests at the end helped to amply prepare me.  Today when I have a question about Biology, I turn to this text first for in-depth coverage.	2003-03-15
US	51761391	RN5LV9907TQ7O	1570030340	390893037	Contemporary Coptic Nuns (Studies in Comparative Religion)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Women of the Eternal Listener	If a church is going to be discussed, it is less likely to be the Orthodox Church.<br />If it's an Orthodox Church, it's unlikely to be a Non-Chalcedonian Church like the Coptic.<br />If it's the Coptic Church, it's less likely to be the monastics.<br />If it's the Coptic monastics, it's highly unlikely to be a discussion of women.<br />So this is a rare book on a subject no one speaks of.  When Abba Shenouda, the Coptic Pope, is asked about the number of monastics in his church, he lists only men.  Pieternella performs a great ethnography on the Coptic Orthodox Nuns, discussing all aspects of their life in an extremely satisfactory etic study.  She looks at the long history of monasticism in Egypt, and, because of the dearth of resources on nuns, we also get to learn a lot about Coptic monks and ecclesiology in the process.  Pieternella lists the various forms of ministry that women have available to them in the Coptic Church- contemplative nuns, active ministry nuns, and quasi-deaconesses.  She convincingly demonstrates how, in the Coptic tradition, contemplation is a more valuable pursuit for the monastic than is service for the poor and social justice work.  She compares the monastic situation to the wider culture- the opportunities for women in Coptic Orthodoxy and the Muslim hegemony to show that monasticism is the best opportunity for religious advancement available to Egyptian women.  It is only here, especially as Abbess, that a woman can become a spiritual authority figure, even to the point of performing the charisma of healing of men.  And Pieternella doesn't just give a Western look at these monastics.  She is to be highly credited for not falling into the myth of the excluded middle, in which the personal miraculous is ignored and does not exist.  She looks in great detail into the supernatural, the mystical, prayer life, and saint hagiography.  In this study, you get to learn all there is about a group that most don't even know exists.  These are the women who have devoted their lives to love of others and serve through work and prayer to the Eternal Listener.n who have devoted their lives to love of others and serve through work and prayer to the Eternal Listener.	2003-03-04
US	51761391	R2XQ9MQN28O0JG	0748604758	67948706	Flora of the Arabian Peninsula and Socotra, Vol. 1	Books	2	6	9	N	N	It's like the Arabian Peninsula:  Dry and Informative	Flora of the Arabian Peninsula and Socotra looks briefly at the geology and climate; then spends the vast majority of the book going through a taxonomic delineation, species by species of all plant life; and finally ends with maps indicating distribution of every species mentioned in the book.  It has information on every species that a botanist in this region of the world would want to study.<br />But it is just really dry.  Scholastic texts can be much more interesting, with better writing and more informative pictures.  These pictures are black and whites drawings of parts of plants.  The writing describes alternate leaves and lobes and how many sepals a plant has.  Unless you have vast training in botany, you'll have no idea what the plant actually looks like.  The Table of Contents listed by ... and in the text is misleading- of 550 pages, only 30 deal with the topography and climate.  Of those, the section on the History of Botanical Exploration is one paragraph; the section on Conservation is five- two of the more promising sections.<br />There are many interesting plants in this region.  Qat is a mild stimulant considered a Class A drug in America, legal in Britain, and chewed by all Yemeni men and half of the Yemeni women for a few hours every day.  You can't be Yemeni and not be involved with it.  But there's no listing for it in the Index; presumably it's under it's scientific name.  Suqutra is an amazing island, isolated for millions of years from the rest of the world and therefore exhibiting classic botanical gigantisism due to the absence of predators.  (The correct name of the island is Suqutra; the authors of the text use the Western name, Socotra.)  It has umbrella trees, trees that look like giant carrots, and actual cucumber trees- trees that have become cucumbers.  But without knowing the scientific names, you can't find them in this book.  There is no listing of all species by area, so it is hard to find the Suqutri specimens.  Once you do find them, the description is so dry you would know nothing of their magnificence.  And the pictures show such small parts of the plants that you wouldn't be able to even recognize it as the wondrous organism it is.<br />The book is basically a missed opportunity.  But it's a handy and encompassing text for someone within this specific field who's willing to pay for it.them, the description is so dry you would know nothing of their magnificence.  And the pictures show such small parts of the plants that you wouldn't be able to even recognize it as the wondrous organism it is.<br />The book is basically a missed opportunity.  But it's a handy and encompassing text for someone within this specific field who's willing to pay for it.	2003-02-14
US	51761391	R1VEOFXUQRLWTT	0809103265	891836313	41. St. Augustine, Vol. 1: The Literal Meaning of Genesis (Ancient Christian Writers)	Books	2	15	29	N	N	Very Literal; Very True, Not So Much	I probably should have expected it, given the title, but I was hoping for something a bit deeper from Augustine.  This doesn't have the mystery and imagination of Confessions.  Here describes his understanding of Genesis 1-2.9 point by point in a severely neo-Platonic manner.  And Augustine is a devoted disciple of Plato; if one hasn't read any Plato it will be tough going indeed.  This is thick stuff and I found I often had to skim some portions and reread others six times.  Perhaps half of Augustine's analysis of Genesis is based on the idea of the Perfect Forms, and how God created the forms in the first chapter of Genesis, and they only actually became reality in the second chapter.  Literal Meaning of Genesis is valuable on a historical basis, for understanding an ancient world view, but has little theological value today because so few now follow Plato's thoughts, and our culture is more Augustinian than anything else.<br /><br />Even the style of the writing is Platonic, becoming a dialectic of Augustine with himself, as he raises and questions different possibilities, accepting them or dismissing them, coming to a Hegelian final result, and sometimes, no result at all, determining that something is unknowable.  I caught a lot of the feel of [[ASIN:3842452438 Montaigne]] at times- as if Augustine was figuring this out and determining truth as he went along.  The positive aspects of this are expressions of humility, openness to possibilities, and a real feel that there is a person behind this writing.<br /><br />Literalness can have value in exegesis, but in something as deeply allegorical as the Genesis stories, Augustine would have been better off keeping with analogy and myth for explanation, as do the Eastern Fathers he so often decries throughout his text.  He does stoop to allegory at times for explanation- Augustine believed that this was suitable only if the literal meaning was unavailable.<br /><br />One central example: for Augustine the literal meaning of the \\"days\\" of Genesis 1 holds no value- what could it mean that God created in a day, when there was no sun or moon, no person to see it, and even when there is a sun it is always on one side of Earth or the other, with darkness at one place when there is light in another?  A \\"day\\" has no meaning- and God is outside of time anyway.  He does not create in a day, nor need anytime at all to create.  And so the evening and morning become spiritual light and darkness, referring to the Perfect Form and the actual result.  Augustine lacks the benefit of our present understanding of anthropology, for we know the Hebrew concept of Day began in the evening, and so he spends many chapters trying to puzzle out why darkness comes first and to which day each evening belongs- the day prior or the day after.<br /><br />The occasional stoops of metaphor and allegory provide the real gems in the work, and if one skims through it, it's worth the read for those.  Like the idea that not everything was written down that happened in The Beginning, but only what the author needed to communicate his theological points, and to prophesy.  Or that there are at times more than one valid explanation of the Bible, and if we hold on too tightly to our own belief, we end up seeking to have the Bible conform to our belief and lose Truth in our very pursuit of it.  Or that Christians, when talking about the Bible and Genesis and in the process speaking nonsense about science, bring shame upon the belief and keep the unbeliever from coming to the Truth, because most unbelievers know a thing or two about science and the nature of reality, and they have no interest in believing nonsense.ing of the \\"days\\" of Genesis 1 holds no value- what could it mean that God created in a day, when there was no sun or moon, no person to see it, and even when there is a sun it is always on one side of Earth or the other, with darkness at one place when there is light in another?  A \\"day\\" has no meaning- and God is outside of time anyway.  He does not create in a day, nor need anytime at all to create.  And so the evening and morning become spiritual light and darkness, referring to the Perfect Form and the actual result.  Augustine lacks the benefit of our present understanding of anthropology, for we know the Hebrew concept of Day began in the evening, and so he spends many chapters trying to puzzle out why darkness comes first and to which day each evening belongs- the day prior or the day after.<br /><br />The occasional stoops of metaphor and allegory provide the real gems in the work, and if one skims through it, it's worth the read for those.  Like the idea that not everything was written down that happened in The Beginning, but only what the author needed to communicate his theological points, and to prophesy.  Or that there are at times more than one valid explanation of the Bible, and if we hold on too tightly to our own belief, we end up seeking to have the Bible conform to our belief and lose Truth in our very pursuit of it.  Or that Christians, when talking about the Bible and Genesis and in the process speaking nonsense about science, bring shame upon the belief and keep the unbeliever from coming to the Truth, because most unbelievers know a thing or two about science and the nature of reality, and they have no interest in believing nonsense.	2003-02-11
US	51761391	R1J4POBBHK4PSI	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Simply the Best	I have never read any other book on grammar that was remotely interesting.  This is literature.  I sometimes go back and reread the rules listed here just for the complete pleasure of reading Strunk and White's words.  With this very thin book, any writer is prepared for art as excellent as that of E.B. White.  He helps us get from Engfish to English- from writing incredibly verbose and inarticulate prose that proceeds on and on interminably with humongous words, to a precise language weeded of anything extra.  Much of what little writing skill I have I owe to this book.	2003-02-01
US	51761391	R1X0O916SSUAWY	0691021201	247808208	The Hajj:  The Muslim Pilgrimage to Mecca and the Holy Places	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Etically Excellent	A ruby of a work, The Hajj provides great background on the largest annual pilgrimage in the world.  Peters traces the history from myth, religion, and recorded history (going back to Adam), and provides many interesting and flowing anecdotes using primary source material throughout the 1400 years of Hajj history.  Here one will learn more about the steps of the pilgrimage and the layout of the Ka'ba (the building which Hajjis run around) than most Muslims know.  Of particular interest is Peter's numerous stories of Hajj through Western eyes- Western Muslims, non-Muslims going to Mecca when it was still allowed, or non-Muslims sneaking into a city to make Hajj, though if they are found out it means death.  The Westerner descriptions provide that etic, outsider perspective which is valuable for those of us who are not from the Middle East, as we grapple to understand religious events and customs and relate them to what we understand within ourselves and our culture.	2003-02-01
US	51761391	R3CCC18GUQTHIW	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	1	10	10	N	N	A never-ending wheel, going over and over the same ground.	I was so looking forward to this book. Waiting, and waiting. After the last 100 pages of Winter's Heart, I was expecting now, finally, after the previous four books, real movement in the story. I expected to give this at least 4 stars. But when I say that the first half of Crossroads of Twilight covers only one day, I mean actually the day that was already covered in the last 100 pages of Winter's Heart! Instead of progressing the story, Jordan wants to go over and over the most mundane and boring of details, and seems to delight in dwelling on what really is simply gossip, which in no way appears to help the story along. We don't even get to Rand at all until the last 150 pages! I could edit this for the parts that progress the actual story and make a book of less than 100 pages- 1/7th the total length. Initially we have to wade through stories of Matt and Perrin, perhaps the most boring of Jordan's characters. And as you read through the book, and realize nothing is happening, it becomes increasingly clear that Jordan is not the best of writers. Perhaps it's to his detriment that with the recent movies, we get a taste of Tolkien's skill. But I'm getting tired of clich?s. Again and again. Like worlds without end. And I'm getting tired of being told what every character thinks, rather than having it described. And I'm really getting confused on who all these characters are. I read the glossary in the back before beginning the book, to refresh my memory, but most characters are not included there, and it's difficult to search through all the varying glossaries of the previous nine books to finally find a character and realize that they really are rather peripheral to the plot.<br /><br />And still, the characters are mean.  Unlike within Lord of the Rings or Narnia, I don't like any of these people.  There are plenty of protagonists, but no real heroes.  Nearly everyone acts only for his or her own concern, without true altruism.  Though some act out of notions of romantic love, there is nowhere real self-sacrificing love for others.  You don't see people becoming morally better, but rather everyone trying to one-up everyone else.  All self-abasement is because it is forced- there is no real humility, like with the Hobbits or what Edmund learns in The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe.  There are no leaders like Gandalf or Aslan, that make the reader feel that thrill that they are next to greatness, and greater for reading this novel.  No growth, no models of kindness and morality, and little true hope.<br /><br />I really want to see what happens in this series, so I read it.  But honestly, if you haven't picked up Book One, don't.  I don't see Jordan being able to wrap this up in less than 13 books.  And if you are hooked on the series, rather than buying this book, just ask someone who's read it to explain the relevant details that actually progress the story.  That should take about 5 minutes.  And then wait for the next book.  That should take about another two years.<br /><br />January 11th, 2003love, there is nowhere real self-sacrificing love for others.  You don't see people becoming morally better, but rather everyone trying to one-up everyone else.  All self-abasement is because it is forced- there is no real humility, like with the Hobbits or what Edmund learns in The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe.  There are no leaders like Gandalf or Aslan, that make the reader feel that thrill that they are next to greatness, and greater for reading this novel.  No growth, no models of kindness and morality, and little true hope.    I really want to see what happens in this series, so I read it.  But honestly, if you haven't picked up Book One, don't.  I don't see Jordan being able to wrap this up in less than 13 books.  And if you are hooked on the series, rather than buying this book, just ask someone who's read it to explain the relevant details that actually progress the story.  That should take about 5 minutes.  And then wait for the next book.  That should take about another two years.    January 11th, 2003	2003-01-21
US	51761391	R3PPPZN7OMRSFT	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	20	30	N	N	Gripping	A great read, one that I had to read until I fell asleep, and then pick up as soon as I awoke. Crichton draws the reader in and builds an amazing story, as always. This novel in particular doesn't feel like it was written as a screen play, and is all the better for it. That most of the novel takes place within a short time period adds to the tension and increases the pace. Character development is a little weak, but better than Crichton's usual. Some characters we think we know throughout the novel but only realize our error near the end. But Crichton's greatness lies more in his ability to take modern science- or soon-to-be modern science- and twist it just slightly, raising all the ethical and moral questions that surround the issues. It has been said that the best science fiction departs from reality only slightly. If this is so, Prey is truly quality writing. In the worst of worlds, one could see the book coming to life in another thirty years. But some words of warning: the descriptions of the deaths are really too gruesome and unnecessary. And the italicized blurb which is designed to get the reader to buy the book, just before the first chapter- it gives the ending away, making it obvious as to how the characters will respond to the trauma they face. Better not to read that till the end....	2003-01-17
US	51761391	R1677TBYOFZAOD	189205101X	84642261	Guinness World Records 2001	Books	2	4	5	N	N	I miss the old one	I grew up with the Guinness Book of World Records, and loved it. I'd devour each new edition, from cover to cover. I love facts and inane trivia, and the Guinness Book was made for people like me. The \\"Guinness World Records\\"- what these books have become- is not the same book. It is mostly pictures. I give it two stars because some records are still present. But the new format of the book seems to be so filled with pictures that there is no room for many important records, and hence much is missing. Small black and white pictures aren't as pretty, but they allow the reader to find what they are looking for. Now, when I want to find a record, I go back to 1998, as I still have that copy. If I want to see pretty pictures and the occasional updated record, I'll look at these newer editions.<br />This review refers to the 2001 edition.	2003-01-14
US	51761391	R2AEXP03TERI6Z	0944350569	676321568	Reasons for Hope: The Faith and Future of the Friends Church	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Baptizing Revitalization, But Needs Editing	We just finished analyzing this book in our meeting to understand what Punshon might have to say about the future of *our* church.  The book is good as a revitalizing point, stretching and encouraging us to change and at the same time stay with the core of who we are.  I appreciated all the info he shares on Friends history, especially more recent events of this past century, which are hard to find a record of. Punshon also does a very good job of explaining aspects of Friends theology. I was excited to learn that my denomination, Evangelical Friends International, one of those which this book focuses on, is actually an acessionary movement, not secessionary- it was formed from a gathering together of different churches rather than a splitting off. This is something holy.<br /><br />But a more systematic theological approach to these subjects would have been helpful. A number of Punshon's theological points are not well backed up- they would only convince the choir- or meeting, as the case may be. And he really could have used a much better editor- there are large sections of the book that need to be skimmed because nothing concrete is said. The second half of the book is much better, more cohesive, with it's foci on worship, discipleship, holiness, end times, and the future. But Punshon's section on Holiness is very confusing- at some points he says that Friends are Holiness and at other points he says they are not; he says that Wesleyan Holiness, Methodist Holiness, and Friends ideas on perfection are all different, but never gets around to explaining how this is so. This section clearly demonstrates that the author assumes a large background in theology from his readers.<br /><br />I still don't understand why a whole chapter is devoted to the end times, especially when Punshon states that it has never been a great focus to the Friends. As for the subtitle \\"Faith and Future\\", the book is long on faith, and short on future- to the tune of one chapter of future. A reissue of this work would be greatly benefited by more focus on possible future ideas.<br /><br />[[ASIN:0944350534 A Living Faith: An Historical and Comparative Study of Quaker Beliefs]]work would be greatly benefited by more focus on possible future ideas.    [[ASIN:0944350534 A Living Faith: An Historical and Comparative Study of Quaker Beliefs]]	2003-01-14
US	51761391	R2DWV43AVZE4I7	0140135154	828022040	Ways of Seeing: Based on the BBC Television Series (Penguin Books for Art)	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Does Art Illuminate?	This book has the potential to completely re-shift your understanding of art.  It is about art philosophy, but much more than that, how we understand the nature of art, and how it relates to our cultures and societies.  It is a book designed for the general reader, without a large art background, but also appreciable by the artist and the professional art critic.<br />People often look down upon the objectification of women in advertising, and how we regularly degrade women for the pleasure of a few, treating women as objects or bodies only.  But then we look back on the nudes of the Renaissance or other periods and think, how beautifully made!  This is truly art, after all, and not the same moral level as an underwear ad or porn.  Berger destroys these myths.  Yes, Rembrandt's nudes are much more artistically done than anything in advertising, but Berger shows a convincing link between the treatment of women in art of that time and art of this time.  If one expands the definition of art in the modern period, the similarities are extraordinary.  In Ways of Seeing Berger carefully traces how art has been used as a method of control, in general and towards women in particular.  How those beautiful nudes we now see in museums were usually in wealthy men's private collections where only they could observe them- much as Playboy is today.  How even the medium (oil, watercolor, film) changes the way information is forced upon us and control is asserted.  Berger does this all not only through text but showing the actual paintings and pictures- indeed, over half the book is art of various sorts.  It is illuminating to see an ad that obviously objectifies women, and then to see the exact same picture next to it, but of a famous oil painting that the ad was based on.  I first read this work over a decade ago and it's ideas and images have never left me.  Nor will they leave you.	2003-01-08
US	51761391	R1AX3O6L5MMVYU	0553213156	55174363	Anne of Ingleside (Anne of Green Gables, No. 6)	Books	2	5	13	N	N	Going Downhill	Lucy Montgomery can't seem to write convincing men, and only does marginally better with women.  The quality of this series has really gone downhill since Anne was a girl, or even a young woman.  Now that she has children, the book no longer focuses on her, which was really the main reason the books seemed to come alive in the beginning.  Now, they drag on and on.  I found myself having to skim large sections simply because nothing happens.  One of the longest chapters is a quilting circle's gossip- and that's it.  And it's not even gossip about characters we know or care about!  A genius to the early books was that Anne either had many problems, or believed she did, and we could join in the child's angst about life.  But now Anne has the ideal life she has always wanted.  And there is no conflict.  And hence, much of this book is simply boring.  There are times when things pick up- like when her children get into trouble.  We start to see something similar to the adventures of the Anne we knew.  But each issue is quickly resolved within a chapter, and nothing encourages you to go on to the next pericope.  There is some hope when Anne starts to dabble with match-making, but this is quickly ended before it could get very interesting.  Aunt Mary Maria is a pill of a woman, and she makes for some very interesting reading- but then she leaves after the first quarter of the book, never to be seen again, and with everything unresolved.<br />When Lucy writes of Anne's son, Jem, there is something missing.  He doesn't seem like a boy somehow- or else not like a real human.  And I realized that this is further developed in Lucy's treatment of Gilbert, who seems to be amazingly absent in these later books.  There is no great undying love between her and Gilbert as there was in earlier books. Yes, it is mentioned, it is assumed, but we don't see it.  Gilbert does very little thought or action- he is mostly wallpaper.  Lucy doesn't write convincing male characters.<br />The last third of the book picks up somewhat, with a few more conflicts for the children, and Anne's marriage appears to be in jeopardy.  But I finished this book really unsure as to if I wanted to read the final installment- despite the foreshadowing of the last two pages.t third of the book picks up somewhat, with a few more conflicts for the children, and Anne's marriage appears to be in jeopardy.  But I finished this book really unsure as to if I wanted to read the final installment- despite the foreshadowing of the last two pages.	2003-01-04
US	51761391	R1RQ0C71WQBESG	0156904365	322831088	Till We Have Faces: A Myth Retold	Books	5	14	14	N	N	It's About Love	I find myself recommending this work more than any other of Lewis' fiction. It is a painting of general revelation, where Lewis builds on the ideas within The Last Battle, where a character who has always worshipped the demon god Tash finds that he so loved Tash with true love, that he was actually worshipping Aslan, whom he never personally met. In Till We Have Faces, Lewis looks at how someone could come to Christ who lived at the time of the Israeli kings, far to the North, in a country where the protagonist, Orual, could not possibly know anything of the Judeo-Christian tradition. It is two love stories in one, building on the Greek myth of Cupid and Psyche, to explore how Jesus woos us to love Him with all that we are- each in different ways, in a personal relationship.<br />The book is mythic in style, and the beginning has a feel of timelessness and legend. Orual and her sister, Psyche, grow up together, learning about the ways that men objectify and treat women based on their appearance- for a woman, appearance is everything in the eyes of their society. (Somewhat familiar.) And then Psyche finds a mysterious man, that Orual knows nothing of.<br />Through the wooing of the mysterious stranger, Orual and her sister Psyche learn to more fully love others. And because of the focus on female characters, this is some of Lewis' most feminist work- strong female characters who think and develop and become complete, and completely heroic.	2002-12-31
US	51761391	R3J3F60GCKKGY1	1892051176	691318656	Guinness World Records 2003	Books	2	10	13	N	N	I miss the old one	I grew up on the Guinness Book of World Records, and loved it.  I'd devour each new edition, from cover to cover.  I love facts and inane trivia, and the Guinness Book was made for people like me.  The \\"Guinness World Records\\"- what these books have become- is not the same book.  It is mostly pictures, and filled with obscure records like how many straws one can fit in a mouth.  I am interested in records like the earliest dinosaur or the largest construction project- not records that are there only because someone wanted to have a record and fame, and have no other practical purpose.  I give it two stars because some of these old records- the kind that really matter- are still present.  But the new format of the book seems to be so filled with pictures that there is no room for many important records, and hence much is missing.  What is present seemed to be editorialized, supporting the West in it's \\"war\\" on terrorism in many sections, showing only those aspects that support America and Britain, ignoring their faults or any mention of 9/11.  Whether or not this is laudable, it is inappropriate in a completely factual text.  There is now an entire section devoted to the military, as opposed to the military being a subsection of the human world in the 2001 and 1998 editions- back when the pictures were black and white and the book was full of records.  Even since the 2001 edition (also pictoralized) the Table of Contents has become more cursory- you have to look in the Index to find any group of records beyond the broadest.  Now, when I want to find a record, I go back to 1998, as I still have that copy.  If I want to see pretty pictures and the occasional updated record, I'll look at this new edition.	2002-12-29
US	51761391	R1JXIHH0Y4FJMY	0345406958	131001816	Story of the Other Wise Man	Books	5	14	16	N	N	My Favorite Christmas Story Ever	Well, except for the original, of course. I treasure the 1901 copy I have of this, as it brings to life the real meanings of Christmas to me more than any other fictional portrayal I have come across. van Dyke writes with clarity and succinctness, communicating the wisdom he claims to receive from the Spirit in the manner of timeless myth. It is well known that there were not three wisemen, but an indeterminate number. This story plays with that theme, and brings up something much better, much deeper, than the imagery in the creches we so often see. The story of Christmas doesn't truly end until Easter, if there. For it's not about a sweet feeling, or feeling comfortable- it's about undying love, about service, about feeling positively uncomfortable. The point is not to give the gifts of precious stones as if Jesus were a king, but to give the gift of life as if Jesus were the King.	2002-11-20
US	51761391	R1I3ZI9RFYCBSE	0553213180	389889394	Anne's House of Dreams (Anne of Green Gables, No. 5)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Slog on to Get to the Real Anne	Some of the wit and magic is missing from Anne's life in the beginning of this book. She's grown up, and there seems to be no real hurdles to cross, or conflict. It makes for a slow read for the first third of the book, while you wait for something to actually happen, instead of a completely idyllic life. Thankfully, things pick up by the 2nd third, and the reader is rewarded by the Anne we all know and care for- responding with love and romance to life's situations and participating in the redemption of those around her. Certainly the ending is a O'Henry twist you wouldn't ever expect. Here again is Anne that you have to sigh over in delight, and kick your feet in the air and laugh in the exhilaration of love found again.	2002-11-03
US	51761391	R2HFOLMSM1O4WO	0312862199	534145800	The World of Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time	Books	5	33	49	N	N	The Essential Reminder to a *Long* Series	For those who liked [[ASIN:0618391118 The Silmarillion]] best of all Tolkien's works- who really enjoy history and geography, even if it's fictional- this is for you.  Jordan provides the history, culture, philosophy, xenology, and geography to his world, with many extra bonuses that you won't find (yet) in any of the novels.  For a series that has dragged on way too long, with some 7,000 pages, it is really hard to keep track of who is doing what, and who is who.  This very encompassing work gives you the background you need to remember whenever that new Jordan novel comes out.  And it is amazing to discover secret tidbits that you can't find anywhere else, like a large continent to the South of the main two, populated by madmen, where the anarchy and lasse faire attitudes towards the One Power rain supreme.  You got to check out this book to find out more about this place, and many others.	2002-08-30
US	51761391	R2113JR1U3ODU2	0393322963	967454060	The Bush Dyslexicon: Observations on a National Disorder	Books	4	10	18	N	Y	Every Reader Who Reads Should Read a Book, Maybe This One	I got to start reading less depressing books. I just finished one on slavery.<br /><br />Not that this isn't a not wonderful book. Whoops. There's another problem with reading this- I noticed I started to write and talk like Bush.<br /><br />But despite it being depressing, and effecting my diction, it is a very well written book. Copious sourcing and footnotes convince the reader of the truth Miller conveys. However, it is unlikely that a die-hard Bush supporter would be convinced- even if someone were to rise from the dead, they still would not believe.<br /><br />I found it scary to realize how very vindictive Bush was, and how he had truly purposely tried to abscond with democracy. I was amazed to hear about his family's ties to the Nazis, Fascists, and very strongly, to Nixon, who both Bush's considered a role model. How Bush tried to skirt the issue completely when asked if his faith in Jesus and his faith in the death penalty might be in conflict. It hurt my soul to hear his meanness to average people who expressed their opinion to him, or the jokes he told about The Tragedy. A central tenet of the book can be summed up as: Bush is perhaps our most illiterate and uneducated president. But he is not stupid. He knows how to play the masses, and the conservative press (i.e. the American press) supports him in this effort because he is the perfect TV President- expressing himself continuously in short tautologies that fit as sound bytes. I honestly did not know till reading this that it turned out Gore had actually won Florida!- because the media didn't report it, when they learned about it after The Tragedy.<br /><br />And yet as a Christian I am called to obey him and pray for him. Despite the coup, despite the black disenfranchisement, the suspension of the constitution and Bill of Rights subsequently, despite his being related to 14 previous presidents- in sum, we live in a monarchy- I am still called to obey him and pray for him. It makes sense, after all- those Biblical passages were written when Nero and other emperors were murdering the Christians.<br /><br />But now, after reading this book, my prayers for our President are that he might learn and feel compassion, from the gut. That he might actually act, try to act, as Jesus did, and felt. That he would change, truly this time, and be teachable, and willing to change.<br /><br />This is the eye-opening text. But a couple flaws, I think. While Miller's quotes are in context and well supported, so there is little doubt to their authenticity, Bush is not satan, or Hitler. It would have been nice to hear some of the positive sides to the man. There must be some. Also, Miller's chapter on religion was frankly offensive. He attacks central tenets off the Christian faith, ascribing them to merely George Bush and his ilk, and then denigrates them. Just because Bush believes it, does not make it bad.written when Nero and other emperors were murdering the Christians.     But now, after reading this book, my prayers for our President are that he might learn and feel compassion, from the gut. That he might actually act, try to act, as Jesus did, and felt. That he would change, truly this time, and be teachable, and willing to change.     This is the eye-opening text. But a couple flaws, I think. While Miller's quotes are in context and well supported, so there is little doubt to their authenticity, Bush is not satan, or Hitler. It would have been nice to hear some of the positive sides to the man. There must be some. Also, Miller's chapter on religion was frankly offensive. He attacks central tenets off the Christian faith, ascribing them to merely George Bush and his ilk, and then denigrates them. Just because Bush believes it, does not make it bad.	2002-08-13
US	51761391	R2R7MLWKJI254R	1585671398	335931915	Yemen: The Unknown Arabia	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	Gemillee- Beautiful al Yemeen	I enjoyed this work. The author spends time focusing on most areas of Yemen- the Hawdramat, Sana'a, Aden, the mountains, and Suqutra. It would have been nice to have more detail on the coastal areas and the writing at times isn't excellent, but it is a very serviceable text. MacKintosh-Smith writes from the perspective of someone who really got inside the culture- as much as a traveler can get. He retains an etic perspective, and does not live, grow, and die with the Yemeni. But this is one of the few travelogues where one can find information on qat, and even the author using it on a regular basis (though it remains classified as a drug at the same level as cocaine by the U.S. government).<br /><br />It is also one of the few places where you can find a modern description of travels in Suqutra, which is worth getting the book by itself. The chapter on Suqutra describes a land isolated biologically for millions of years, displaying evidence of gigantisism as you find in Hawaii, where few predators have controlled the growth of fauna and especially flora. There are cucumber trees there, and others that look like upside-down umbrellas. Much of the flora and fauna are unique to the island. Further, severe storms six months of the year prevent access to the island. So, while over the years there have been invasions on the coast of the island by different parties, it has largely grown up unscathed into modern times. The language diverged from South Arabian in about 750 BC, and the people seem to be a mixture of Arabic, Greek, Portuguese, and Indian- but no one knows for sure. While they do now have cars (301 of them), the cigarette lighter is still an unknown machine. And since the government severely limits non-Yemeni visitors to the island, this is a rare and exciting bit of a story of what the people are like. I only wish there was more about the island.	2002-08-06
US	51761391	R3UJLM8U9LEN0S	0312876521	956429561	A Door Into Ocean (Elysium Cycle)	Books	5	5	20	N	Y	A Far Better Water World	Written by a Quaker, on an entirely ocean moon, with an all female species, committed to pacifism- this novel has it all! Slonczewski's Friend background breathes through the book, where the Sharers, the moon people, have regular meetings, \\"gatherings\\", in order to determine the action that needs to happen, by consensus. If one person disagrees then no action is taken. They are committed to nonviolent action not as a means to an end but a way of life itself- and they are very good at it. And it seems that long ago they produced women only.<br />Then trade begins with a much more violent-prone planet which they orbit, with both genders of humans, ruled by a distant patriarch. It's basically like our planet. And with the trade comes traditional ideas of control and power. A few representatives of the moon rise up to advocate for those on the planet, arguing that they are people as well, and that there can be healthy interaction between the moon and the planet.<br />Slonczewski has rich character development and keeps the reader on the edge of the seat with novel plot twists. It is also real. The best kind of Sci-Fi changes a few parameters and lets real life develop from there. Here, if we posit the beginnings of a female pacifist ocean moon, it all makes sense. The nonviolent action doesn't always work out as we would like, and our friends are not always friendly. Just because the women are pacifists doesn't mean they are good or always agree. But, as in real life, nonviolent action here is effective also.<br />The one downer in the novel is some lesbian interaction, which thankfully is minimal. The incredibly great aspect of the novel is how it puts you into a Pacifist mindset, thinking along the lines of active resistance without violence. For it is not just tactics, but a way of being. The Sharers greet each other with \\"Share the day\\" and speak of \\"learn-sharing\\" or \\"food-sharing\\"- for all actions in their language are reflexive. To give birth to a baby is to be given birth by the baby into motherhood. Their names are their worst faults, such as \\"Usha the Inconsiderate\\"- a name chosen when they become an adult as a reminder of what they need to try to overcome for the rest of their lives. I think we would be far better off looking at our own faults like this continually. And even their understanding of death as the last door, which you enter and then are reborn, has the metaphorical image of life only through death. They constantly affirm that we are doers who act- we choose- even choosing death at times, but it is our decision. This awareness that they are in control means that there is not the need for violence to get their way, or even to get their way. It is the way of the Gospel- the way the Kingdom *should* look this side of Eternity. Would that we all lived more as Sharers.iven birth by the baby into motherhood. Their names are their worst faults, such as \\"Usha the Inconsiderate\\"- a name chosen when they become an adult as a reminder of what they need to try to overcome for the rest of their lives. I think we would be far better off looking at our own faults like this continually. And even their understanding of death as the last door, which you enter and then are reborn, has the metaphorical image of life only through death. They constantly affirm that we are doers who act- we choose- even choosing death at times, but it is our decision. This awareness that they are in control means that there is not the need for violence to get their way, or even to get their way. It is the way of the Gospel- the way the Kingdom *should* look this side of Eternity. Would that we all lived more as Sharers.	2002-07-23
US	51761391	R1Y6BTVOZWLUW8	0520224639	571216960	Disposable People: New Slavery in the Global Economy	Books	5	64	66	N	Y	Read It.	Wow. This *is* a book everyone should read. I'd heard about bits of slavery here and there in modern times. After I heard Bales on NPR and read about his work in Scientific American and the Sun, I was eager to get ahold of this book. But I had no idea that the horror was so widespread.<br />Bales writes with clearness and imagination, yet is thoroughly scientific and researched. He followed sociological procedures and didn't merely report on other's ideas, but did primary research himself with a set variable questionnaire. All of this work makes his arguments irrefutable.<br />Disposable People traces the three main types of slavery- old fashioned chattel slavery, debt slavery (the largest) and contract slavery (the fastest growing), in five different empirical countries. The first case of contract slavery in Thailand I found the most horrendous- families selling their daughters into slave-prostitution and death by AIDS, for the price of a colour TV. The case of chattel slavery in Mauritania was the most interesting- Arab Muslims speaking of their black slaves as their children, who need to be guided by a firm hand, but are inferior; who are fed the bare minimum to work and live, and not allowed to go to school. A place where the children of a female slave become the property of the slave owner, whether or not he is the father, and women can be kept as slaves by the claim that they are actually the wife of the slave owner, who has on his side the Qur'an's stipulation that one may have sex with one's female slaves. It was all too reminiscent of the antebellum period. Bales' weakest arguments were in regards to the form of slavery in India. While there is certainly slavery there, and it appears to be the oldest continual slavery in the world, the farming he described seemed to be more sharecropping than slavery- there was little reference to the violence that forced people to remain with their land lord/slave holder.<br />This book needs to be read because we need to stop this. Twenty-seven million people in the world are in slavery, and many of the products we rely on and use every day are made by them. This should not be. It can not be.stop this. Twenty-seven million people in the world are in slavery, and many of the products we rely on and use every day are made by them. This should not be. It can not be.	2002-07-18
US	51761391	RH6463H52K8L9	0932970001	260646489	Ramallah Teacher : The Life of Mildred White, Quaker Missionary	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Poorly Written, Little to Offer	This story of Mildred White could have easily been a lot better. It follows her life, giving background on the Quaker history in America and specifically Indiana, and the history of Mildred's family. It follows her call to go to Palestine, and gives some background on the history of the Friends school in Ramallah. Then, with the use of narrative and actual letters, Jordan tells the story of White's life- her time in Palestine and her trips back to the U.S.<br /><br />But to say \\"story\\" is really too kind. The writing is simply too dry, and not at all gripping. It's frankly bad writing. I found myself having to skim through large sections. This was more of an individual's admittedly laudable desire to put to paper some of her own family history- as Lois is Mildred's niece. And it is of more interest to those who are related to the Whites and the Jordans. This is truly a shame, as one gets hints of a many amazing events that happen in Mildred's life- she lives through the rise of Zionism and al nakba, or The Catastrophe, when the ethnic cleansing of the Arabs from Palestine occurred. Jordan shares some of that time, but it's squeezed into a couple chapters, and the stories mentioned take up a paragraph at a time. She simply doesn't pull you in. It's not like you feel for any of the characters of this biography, including Mildred. It could be a textbook, except there's little information conveyed.<br /><br />But there are also aspects of Mildred's life that lack real vividness. There is little sense of a great battle to wage, and a good fight well won. Zeal could have been applied to service and non-violent action, but if it happened, it is not well  communicated.<br /><br />Two stars because of some history shared about Palestine in the 20's - 50's, and nice tidbits like that \\"Ramallah\\" used to be called \\"Ram Allah\\"- Hill of God. The book also serves to put a much more human face on the very oppressed Palestinian people. More books that do that are sorely needed. But Ramallah Teacher should largely be skipped.ld largely be skipped.	2002-07-02
US	51761391	R6C27X2Z748OD	015650880X	503386208	Letters to Malcolm: Chiefly on Prayer	Books	5	63	66	N	Y	Deep and Personal	This is one of those books where I found myself taking an hour to read a paragraph, which I had previously read.  I just needed to ruminate on Lewis' thoughts. It's not theological in the sense of [[ASIN:0060652888 Mere Christianity]] or [[ASIN:0151329168 The Four Loves]]- he is clear here and elsewhere that he does not want to write a devotional book and indeed thinks he has little to offer on the subject, as he is untrained in these areas. So while he covers the same areas as Richard Foster's [[ASIN:0060628464 Prayer]], this book has a decidedly different feel.  It is personal, as if it were a collection of real letters.<br /><br />And thus these are just letters. Often Lewis doesn't fully explain his ideas in an understandable way, to make it appear as if he is not writing to the general public, but only to Malcolm- a friend with whom he has a lot in common, with that secret language that all friends have.  I appreciated too how personal asides were imagined, like \\"Your son is very welcome. We do *not* dress for dinner normally.\\" and \\"Please tell Betty I do not need a bed downstairs, I am feeling much better.\\" and, contrary to what [[ASIN:0880706953 Walter Hooper]] would have us believe, references to his conjugal life with his former wife.<br /><br />Lewis' musings have the advantage of coming at the end of his life, with the full wisdom available. I especially liked his thoughts on getting whatever we ask for in faith vs. Jesus prayer in Gethsemane, difficulties in prayer focus, and the effectatiousness of our prayers. In the end, we want to be heard, even more than having our prayers answered. Lewis is simultaneously so deep and so clear.  As he said, he wrote for the common man. So as I read him, I find myself constantly thinking, \\"Yes, I didn't believe that before, but I see that now.\\"	2002-06-27
US	51761391	R3F300N3R9QWB4	9997412788	813874671	Up into the Singing Mountain	Books	4	39	40	N	Y	Good this one was	This book will tear you apart and put you back together again.  It opens where the first book, How Green Was My Valley, opened- Huw packing up to leave his valley in Wales.  But rather than a long flashback, we go forward in his life from there- on to Patagonia, Argentina, with a Welsh expatriate community, but mostly from composed of those *other* people, the North Welsh.  Huw moves into town as a boarder, starts up his carpentry business, sorely needed after a great flood in the year prior, and meets a beautiful woman, Lal.  He then faces similar problems to his life growing up- nature's wrath, and man's evil- gossip.<br /><br />Llewellyn does an amazing job of characterization, so that we as the readers really care for the characters, move for them, and feel that we are right there with them.  He describes without describing, and Welsh Patagonia comes to life before us.  I eagerly look forward to the third in the series of four, Down Where the Moon is Small.  Up Into the Singing Mountain is a complete story in it's own right, but leaves much room for a sequel.  However, I could not give the book five stars, for two reasons, which diverge from the first book.  Llewellyn uses stronger Welsh dialect at times and his scene changes become confusing, so that there were many places wherein I didn't know what was happening, and even when I reread a section, couldn't make sense of it.  Also, there were times, especially in the first half of the book, where I couldn't support Huw.  In the first book, I could identify with him, even when he made mistakes.  Here, there are times when Huw seems rather mean, and is difficult to relate to.  He justifies himself when a naked woman is in his bed that he is a man, and so makes love to her, because no man could refuse.  This is simply untrue, and difficult to relate to.  But Huw's character picks up in the second half, and this is perhaps why it is then when the reader's heart is wretched and then poured out in hope.	2002-06-15
US	51761391	R2C6XGKJAGT9SK	0880706953	52292011	Light in the Shadowlands: Protecting the Real C. S. Lewis	Books	2	15	21	N	Y	Where Angels Fear to Tread	I really wanted to like this book.  I spent a long time trying to justify Lindskoog.  And then I realized I was spending a long time justifying Lindskoog.<br /><br />I think she's right.  Her evidence is overwhelming that Hooper has lied and deceived; has presented forgeries to the public and trodden on the name of Lewis.  I don't think I will ever again purchase a Lewis book edited by Hooper- because of his forwards, and the possibilities of changes within the published manuscript itself.<br /><br />But she goes too far.  The tone of the book can only be described as vindictive and paranoid.  After reading it, I realized that not once did Lindskoog have a kind word to say about Hooper.  She lambasted him throughout, and this is really too much.  It would have been a much more convincing argument if she presented the errors he had made, as well as the positive contributions.<br /><br />And some of her arguments are really quite specist.  I really don't see the point of the arguments regarding homosexuality- she doesn't actually lay allegations, but seems to allude to gay allusions in books produced by Lewis' posthumous editors, making an appearance of evil worse than the real thing.  A better editor would really have helped this book- shortening it and making her case much stronger by removing those ideas that don't really relate to the main case of the book.<br /><br />Also throughout the book Lindskoog presents almost everyone as against her.  Though she lists some pretty famous people on her side, none of them are presenting arguments in support of her apology.  All those who actually argue are against her.<br /><br />Her case is well supported, with copious footnotes and evidence:  a scholarly work.  I believe her.  But I would rather have not read this work, because of the tone in it: it was not full of love.	2002-06-15
US	51761391	RD1RWOCT9J7TK	0375501037	191715854	Darwin's Ghost: The Origin of the Species Updated	Books	5	2	6	N	Y	Better Than the Original!	Having read only snippets of [[ASIN:0517123207 The Origin of Species]] I found this book invaluable. It laid out the arguments and descriptions of evolution all in one place, in a very readable format. It is naturally superior to Origin in that it is an update of 150 years of science, especially genetics and plate tectonics. But this isn't a mere rewriting in modern English or with modern scientific arguments added in. As Jones himself states, it is more a rewriting of the *ideas* within Origin, in Jones' voice and with his own arguments. Steve Jones writes with a wonderful style, similar to dearly departed Stephen Jay Gould, merging science with popular culture and limitless trivia. (My friends are quickly getting tired of me quoting much of the trivia from the book- like the percentage of genetic variation between individuals and \\"races\\", or the male ability to lactate!)<br /><br />I must however disagree with Jones on one point- Darwin was not a great writer. Summaries and the final chapter of The Origin are reprinted here- and with good reason!- Darwin's arguments were profound and instrumental, and should be included in his own words in part in a book that is a rewriting of those ideas. But Darwin's wordiness and vagueness only serve to highlight both his much superior abilities as a scientist, and Jones' much superior writing skill.	2002-06-04
US	51761391	R25AQFTG904K0X	0140187456	69278241	The Long Valley (Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Wonderfully Written	I particularly liked the details.  Steinbeck just so well paints his stories- you can see what's happening, even though I have never seen the details myself in real life.  I wish I had!  I wish I could see life as clearly as he does.  I find myself realizing for the first time the difference in a woman's chin from that of a man, though subconsciously from a distance you can tell the gender without knowing why.  How a man looks old only because of the way his heel touches the ground.  I fully understand the uncomfortability of someone with coal black eyes, though I don't remember ever seeing such a person.  I see how a peddler can get a buyer by becoming a buyer himself.  Or what it is like to be in a mind of a self-justified racist lyncher.  Sometimes Steinbeck gets so into the minds of others I am uncomfortably unsure of where he stands- it is as with a consummate actor, who becomes his character.  But of course my favorite story of all is Saint Katy the Virgin, of a demonic pig become Christian and saint, &quot;stretched prostrate on the ground, making the sign of the cross with her right hoof and mooing softly in anguish at the realization of her crimes.&quot;  I've always known that pigs were worthy of salvation...	2002-05-16
US	51761391	R8ZROZ96GFFAD	038527811X	689098919	The birth of the People's Republic of Antarctica	Books	2	15	25	N	Y	Epic & Lackluster	This is well written, but I can not recommend it. I should say that there are many parts that have the flashes of brilliance, and other sections that remain confusing and contradictory. Perhaps some might say this is because it is all told in the first person, the ravings of a mad man. Perhaps it is that I simply don't want to read the ravings of a mad man.<br /><br />The title belies the text. The People's Republic of Antarctica itself is no more than a footnote- it more is the story of the life of Grim Fiddle, taking place mostly on the Atlantic Ocean in various places. I enjoyed the descriptions of life on the waves, for I enjoy the waters of the deep. But I picked up the text hoping to hear about a Republic in Antarctica, as there is so little future history or imaginations that continent. Instead we follow Grim as he lives in Norse legend from his birth in Scandinavia as an American-Swede, down the length of the Atlantic Ocean to the Falklands and other islands of the South. Throughout there is portent of greatness about Grim, and one expects much to come out of it. One ends up with disappointment.<br /><br />This tale is dark, and one keeps hoping for some Joy, some recompense, but the desire are stifled. Yes, it goes in places you would not expect, and I commend Batchelor for his work and effort in that regard, and in others. But the lines between what one expects and what one ultimately receives are not clearly drawn. It may well be the revelation of the mind of a mass-murderer- but if so, we the readers come to identify and relate to a Grim, in his first thirty years, and he suddenly becomes an evil man and destroyer of peoples. Yes, there are some glimmers of this earlier on, but there truly is no transition to this change- you are suddenly presented with the new Grim, and the only explanation is a confused interlude tale told in epic Nordic style.<br /><br />But I speak too harshly of this book. For Batchelor truly opens up the mind of the man, Grim. You move with him and the events that occurred. And it is a harsh tale, but realistic, of the depths of depravity of man. There is much to be said on the question of what *will* we do with all the refugees, the huddled masses on our teeming shores, that increase year after year in this new century.<br /><br />I hold this against the story: it is told as confessional, but without real remorse. Better yet, there is remorse, but not real anguish, nor the repentance that can be seen in renewed Hope. It is depression, and I declare that depression is not Reality- Hope is present, and is powerful. The author would fashion in one's mind a falsehood that rings of Truth.<br /><br />If this review was at all confusing, it was told in the same style as the book.move with him and the events that occurred. And it is a harsh tale, but realistic, of the depths of depravity of man. There is much to be said on the question of what *will* we do with all the refugees, the huddled masses on our teeming shores, that increase year after year in this new century.<br /><br />I hold this against the story: it is told as confessional, but without real remorse. Better yet, there is remorse, but not real anguish, nor the repentance that can be seen in renewed Hope. It is depression, and I declare that depression is not Reality- Hope is present, and is powerful. The author would fashion in one's mind a falsehood that rings of Truth.<br /><br />If this review was at all confusing, it was told in the same style as the book.	2002-05-07
US	51761391	R2ETTX3OV24KM5	0385333870	197148998	Galapagos: A Novel (Delta Fiction)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A New Kind of Science Fiction	This was an excellent look at evolutionary bottlenecks. Though the million-year-old ghost as observer is a bit of a deus ex machina, the rest of the work shows very clearly the adaptation to a changing environment by a particular animal, namely Homo sapiens. Is an advanced brain truly an evolutionary advantage?  It causes the extinction of an entire species- us.  The initial cause of mass infertility through parasitism also raises interesting questions on the nature of parasitism itself, as the parasite destroys it's host. This short work was recommended by my Marine Invert prof in undergrad for a fictional and accurate understanding of the inward nature of evolution. Vonnegut truly captures the philosophy behind the theory and not only the facts. A new kind of science fiction- fiction which helps us understand science better.	2002-04-30
US	51761391	RLQ0Z30Q1NDBI	0688151795	668105263	The Storytellers	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautifully Descriptive	This is designed to be read to very young children, who will enjoy investigating all the illustrations of life in Fez. Every age will get to see the vision of life in al maghreb, Morocco, in ways they have never seen before, beginning with the call of the mu'ezzin which you can almost hear. I loved how Abdul was not tagging along with his grandfather, on \\"Bring the Grandkid to work today\\"- he was involved as part of the work of his Grandfather, on a level that a child could complete, and integral to that work. At the end Lewin includes the sad information of how few of the true storytellers are left. That is a shame. A good story is always better than the best TV show. It creates imagination.	2002-04-16
US	51761391	R1R6Z08MUMTJZJ	0688140238	797355944	Day of Ahmed's Secret	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Very Real Child	I came across this book at the Dearborn Arab-American Festival, the largest Arab festival in North America. And I'm so glad I did. Vivid illustrations, and an engrossing storyline. Heide reveals a very realistic Cairo street life, unknown to most Western adults, and here very easy for kids to relate to through the eyes of the young child, Ahmed. I smiled as I read and saw different scenes, like the rose-water man, and remembered walking through Cairo and seeing these very people. The scenes are gritty- not white-washed, yet also very relationally connected, with people caring for each other and showing true hospitality, the hallmark of Egyptian life. This child isn't a terrorist; it's a young child; it's real life. When he finally reveals his secret, it's the joy of a child first learning to read, just like any Western or American child. But he's also truly Egyptian- he presents his name in Arabic.<br /><br />After we read this, I and the children in the library learned to write our names in Arabic, and then we *had* to get some rosewater ice cream, in order to fully immerse ourselves in the book. If you can get ahold of it, I highly recommend!	2002-04-15
US	51761391	R1VXNAMRIDSZD1	1886947120	100968194	The Legend of Mackinac Island	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Vivid Myth	*Beautiful* illustrations. That must be said from the start. These are the kind of skies you dream about. And Wargin makes the animals come alive as they battle to assist Old Turtle in bringing up a clump of earth from deep below the waters. That the lowly muskrat is the one to succeed is predictable but pleasing- sharing the message with children that the least of all becomes the greatest. Perhaps the best part though is the end, when Great Turtle dies to himself in order to create the promised land of Mackinac for the animals. Make sure to read this out loud to your children, and with the right voices- old turtles have to sound very grouchy and very kind!	2002-04-15
US	51761391	R2KIDTUN55PB2A	0788738267	350518823	The Hermit Thrush Sings	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Disappointing	The work just isn't that well written. And yes, I know it's designed for children, but children's books can, and should be, extraordinarily well written. But nothing pulls you into this child's life. The author portrays the feeling of trying to create magic, and being quite unsuccessful at it. In the end the listener is struck with wonder that everything worked together, with multiple deus ex machinas. And the voice of Kate Forbes is not only sickly-sweet, but lacks character range.<br />Still, children will likely enjoy it, and it's something to stick in the car as you are driving on a long trip. It's just not good literature.	2002-04-15
US	51761391	RWHLAA8981UFH	0395645662	55490378	The Giver (Giver Quartet)	Books	3	89	141	N	N	Take a look at the front cover.	Take a close look. This encompasses the central theme of the book. At some point, people realized that all kinds of sin and strife sprang from differences and envy. And so they removed color. The book never explains quite how- it's not pure science fiction but more of a mix with fantasy. But there are two in the society that can always see in color. And they are the ones who remember pain, for without pain you can not truly make wise decisions.<br /><br />Now that cuts to the wick. You don't expect something so deep in a children's novel that puts the novel into a category of not only readable for adults, but one adults *should* read. Lowry very realistically describes the process of emerging color-sight, describing what it is like for the first time to truly see after all your life living in a society of black and white. In the process she reveals, if it is our differences which cause the strife between us, perhaps the removal of those differences is too great a price to pay. And perhaps pain itself is too great a thing to lose if it means a life of mediocrity and forgetfulness. For with much pain also comes much Joy.<br /><br />I wrote this review before there was a hint of two sequels, and hence was forced o give it the low rating.  Without the sequels, it is incomplete.  The Giver will stick with you; you will remember it's myth. But embrace it as an unfinished story until you've read the sequels.	2002-04-15
US	51761391	R1XZMRPRLDVU59	0310205085	77222785	Empyrion II: The Siege of Dome	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Enormously Happy	Is how I felt after reading this. The Siege of Dome was so rich with Truth. With Allegory, the highest form of Truth. It is Science Fiction as Devotional. Siege of Dome, like Search for Fierra, starts out slowly, but makes up for it in the engrossing later chapters. Through most of the story the two protagonists are in separate spheres- Orion Treet in the evil Dome, and Yarden with the beautiful Fierri. Fierra is a vision of Heaven- although the Fierri are quick to point out it is only a poor imitation of the real thing. Usually the description of a life of a truly good people is rather boring; but Lawhead pulls it off by juxtaposing their lives with the situation of Orion in Dome. Lawhead uses the Fierri to describe- not teach in a preachy style, but show- what a life completely devoted to God can be like. It is a natural search for the Joy present in the Infinite. It is going to a concert and leaving without applauding, because the true joy for the artists was simply performing and expressing their gift in pure worship to the Father. It is searching one's soul to give control to the Creator to finally gain control.<br /><br />In contrast Dome is a place of rage, anger, and forced control. All that is evil has been pent up there for millennia, breeding upon itself, not allowing real air in. Indeed, when Dome-dwellers or Earthlings first breath real air they initially experience great pain, for the goodness of purity is painful for those who have known only death and decay. The pain is a death we must all go through.<br /><br />The main negatives: I loved that the Fierri had a firm commitment to harm no living thing, but I found parts confusing when it appears that they do. I think Lawhead could have done more without resorting to killing to have the protagonists win. And Lawhead throughout alludes to a great evil force controlling the religious beliefs and atmosphere of Dome, yet never resolves the battle with this force.<br /><br />The scariest part: Dome reminded me a lot of Earth.<br /><br />The most wonderful part: Fierra looked very achievable, if one begins with oneself, one individual at a time. For the good of the many is the good of every individual.<br /><br />[[ASIN:0745918727 Empyrion: The Search for Fierra and The Siege of Dome]]The most wonderful part: Fierra looked very achievable, if one begins with oneself, one individual at a time. For the good of the many is the good of every individual.    [[ASIN:0745918727 Empyrion: The Search for Fierra and The Siege of Dome]]	2002-04-08
US	51761391	R20JRKM7P8671X	0913408522	215043537	History of Quakerism	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Scholarly Work	Russell covers the history of the Friends up through 1940. Although the developments of the next few decades would be interesting, especially the Orthodox split, this book is an excellent and thorough work for the first three centuries of the Quakers. It includes chapters on George Fox; James Nayler, whose followers claimed he was Jesus Incarnate; Joseph Gurney, who motivated the Gurneyite split; and Elias Hicks, who began the Hicksite movement; and John Wilbur, leading to the Wilburite sect. Russell gives consistent scholarship with copious footnotes and bibliography, but in a very readable manner. Some of his final chapter prophesies of unity movements have sadly not been born out, but the rest of the text was exceedingly helpful for understanding the history of this valuable Christian movement.<br /><br />[[ASIN:0944350569 Reasons for Hope: The Faith and Future of the Friends Church]]<br />[[ASIN:0944350534 A Living Faith: An Historical and Comparative Study of Quaker Beliefs]]	2002-04-05
US	51761391	R2787Y3HJJQLND	0395720958	150238574	So Far from the Sea	Books	5	10	10	N	N	So Close to Us	Every time I read this story to the children in the library I worked at I cried.  A year later I still remember it vividly.  The book showed the atrocity of what we did simply by showing the emotions of Japanese-Americans 50 years later.  One truly feels for the father uprooted from his life and culture; the grandfather uprooted from the sea and his fishing.  I can relate to the tragedy of being removed from the water.  Eve Bunting builds to a dramatic, emotional climax- which is not easy to do in a short children's book.  Chris Soetpiet's illustrations are beautiful, with excellent use of both color and black and white.  And the short historical synopsis at the end provides opportunity to discuss with children the reality behind the story.	2002-04-03
US	51761391	R1F3LFXDMYM24J	0439321069	883827834	Old Turtle	Books	5	4	6	N	N	All Creation Worships Him	This was a wonderful story and thoroughly enjoyed by the children I read to as a librarian. Douglas Wood replays Genesis- but the themes behind the allegory. God is more than what I see of Him- God can only be found in what others see of Him as well. This is true Christian community. Wood displays wonderfully the foolishness of insisting upon only my view of God- in a way that children can understand but so many adults (including myself) need to hear. And then you truly feel the tragedy of the humans, forgetting all of the care for the land that God engrained upon us. Forgetting that God is found in His creation, and that all creation is a worshipful expression to Him. When we forget about the Land, we forget about God. So in the end, \\"even the stones need to cry out.\\" For creation has learned in it's turmoil to see the Inner Light in the other. Creation has been redeemed. As C.S. Lewis said, this is what makes Christianity unique among great world religions- it calls for us to become like what we are unlike, as we see God in our sister and brother who is most unlike us.	2002-04-03
US	51761391	R11C8J70A5SE30	0686562127	449637573	Asterix and the Soothsayer	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The Entrails Predict a Pleasing Story	One of my favorite of the series, a soothsayer appears in the special Gaulish village to lead the people towards the light, maybe. I loved this edition because of the constant historical humor which makes the series great. A full-page aside on different kinds of future-predictions of the time is one of the highlights- showing how we can trust soothsayers because after all they predicted Julius Ceaser would be safe with Brutus. But sometimes, they predict things like 80 story buildings, and so are obviously &quot;a bit soft&quot;. Here also are allusions to ancient smog. It continually amazes me how a series written in French, relying on puns, can still translate humorously into English and some 20 other languages- puns are usually the thing that translates least well. A brilliant bit of imagination.	2002-04-02
US	51761391	R214NAEJFHIBM0	055329007X	447019494	What Might Have Been, Vol. 4	Books	4	10	11	N	N	As If	This is not so much alternate Americas as the title would suggest, as alternate New Worlds.  I think some of the stories in this collection make it the best of the volumes, and it is nice to see four female authors.  The stories continue to make you think and contemplate on the way things could be, and therefore the way things are.<br />But there are too few historical contingencies.  Six stories deal with Columbus and three with Chinese expansion.  When there is such a huge history of the Americas to deal with, it would have been nice to have more diversity- What if the Lost Tribes of Israel *had* made it here?  What of that great book of alternate American history, the Book of Mormon?  What if humans *hadn't* made it over the Bering Straight so early in our history?  What if the colonization had come up from the Pacific Islands, as some historians believe it did in part?  What if Hominids had made it over here much earlier and so had developed along Marsupial lines as did many other animals in South America?  What if the colonies were all still under European control?  One story on Columbus would have been sufficient- the plentitude of similarity became simply confusing.  It also grew tiring to see Europeans repeatedly lambasted- they also did some good.  Nor would any other culture's conquest necessarily been more beneficial to the Natives, as many authors would suggest.  Evil lurks in the hearts of all men.<br />Of the works on Columbus, the best was by the master Turtledove, with a very short letter detailing why exploration of the New World should not happen in Report of the Special Committee.  Basically, if NASA had run the exploration of America.  In Isabella of Castile Answers Her Mail we get a humorous take on Columbus wandering into modern New York, seeing how an outsider would view our culture.  It is more Fantasy than Sci-Fi, but a truly etic tale.  Zebrowski continues with the quantum focus which he can't seem to escape in the poor Let Time Shape, where the Carthaginians establish an empire in the Americas, and are at a 19th Century level of technology when Columbus comes.  Destination: Indies is the only story in this collection that was so stupid I didn't finish it.  Columbus studies quantum mechanics and fights the \\"Dark Duke\\" who has a submarine with \\"microdemonic engineering\\".  Ship Full of Jews was also disappointing- but what can one expect from Malzberg?- where Columbus has ships of Jews and felons, both being deported.  The story ends suddenly with no clear idea of what was happening or about to happen.  The Karamazov Caper has Columbus killed, a Reign of Ignorance begun so no European exploration occurs, Russia expands unchecked into the New World, and the Germans begin to do ethnic cleansing of Native Americans on the East Coast.  It's a bit too many changes to take in, and the story takes place in Alaska, so it's not too different from our reality wherein Russia owned Alaska.<br />Ink From the New Moon has Buddhists severely persecuted and emigrating to the New World to establish an independent country in America, with missions and backward Europeans.  It is well written with humor, like the independent United Sandalwood Autocracies.  A true Chinese perspective is shown in Round-Eyed Barbarians with the possibility of China's Middle Kingdom *not* becoming isolated but instead having major exploration and colonization of America, again meeting up with backward Europeans.  The Sleeping Serpent presents the Khans of Mongolia taking over the world, aligning with Native Americans to attack the last independent Europeans.  It is historically accurate, having the Khans adapt to the religions of their subjects- in this case, Christianity and Native American beliefs as well as Islam.<br />Jerry Oltion has Native Americans obliterate all of the colonies with the exception of Manhattan (because that was rightfully bought and not stolen).  The Natives are at a slightly higher level of technology in modern times than the Europeans.  While this isn't that realistic, it revealed perhaps how things *should* have been.  The story could use greater historical accuracy, however- because of the Quakers, much of New Jersey, Delaware, and Pennsylvania were also bought from the Native Americans, and for a much fairer price than Manhattan.<br />Vinland the Dream is not really an alternate reality as much as the psychological portrait of giving up old scientific theories.  It suggests that new scholarship shows Norsemen didn't make it to America.<br />My favorite stories were the ones that dealt with alternate missiology.  In ideas similar to the establishment of Christianity in Ireland or Persia, we get a more native belief system rather than a simple European overlay. In If There Be Cause, Francis Drake makes it to the West Coast before the Spaniards, and stays.  There the Native Americans in Baha California come to follow Christ, but in a contextual manner with Native awareness of the excluded middle of the supernatural.  Looking for the Fountain shows Ponce de Leon arriving in Florida to find a tribe of people influenced by Crusaders blown off course, who continue to practice a Roman Christianity, but are also strongly committed to fighting the Muslims.  While the latter desire is sad, the Christianity presented is still very contextual with folk ideas of holy sites, and the Native people are more committed to Christ than the Conquistadors!  In truth another Columbus history, Such a Deal has Columbus getting support not from Spain, but a wealthy Jewish merchant.  Columbus returns with a shipload of Aztec Warriors, who align themselves with the Jewish merchant because of his similarity to their god, Quetzalcoatl.  This is interesting because the belief in Quetzalcoatl was actually a brief monotheistic faith, fitting more with Christianity than Judaism.  Don Richardson explores this idea in Eternity in Their Hearts with the philosophy behind this story- what it might have been like if the belief in Quetzalcoatl had still existed at the time of the coming of Christian missions.han the Europeans.  While this isn't that realistic, it revealed perhaps how things *should* have been.  The story could use greater historical accuracy, however- because of the Quakers, much of New Jersey, Delaware, and Pennsylvania were also bought from the Native Americans, and for a much fairer price than Manhattan.<br />Vinland the Dream is not really an alternate reality as much as the psychological portrait of giving up old scientific theories.  It suggests that new scholarship shows Norsemen didn't make it to America.<br />My favorite stories were the ones that dealt with alternate missiology.  In ideas similar to the establishment of Christianity in Ireland or Persia, we get a more native belief system rather than a simple European overlay. In If There Be Cause, Francis Drake makes it to the West Coast before the Spaniards, and stays.  There the Native Americans in Baha California come to follow Christ, but in a contextual manner with Native awareness of the excluded middle of the supernatural.  Looking for the Fountain shows Ponce de Leon arriving in Florida to find a tribe of people influenced by Crusaders blown off course, who continue to practice a Roman Christianity, but are also strongly committed to fighting the Muslims.  While the latter desire is sad, the Christianity presented is still very contextual with folk ideas of holy sites, and the Native people are more committed to Christ than the Conquistadors!  In truth another Columbus history, Such a Deal has Columbus getting support not from Spain, but a wealthy Jewish merchant.  Columbus returns with a shipload of Aztec Warriors, who align themselves with the Jewish merchant because of his similarity to their god, Quetzalcoatl.  This is interesting because the belief in Quetzalcoatl was actually a brief monotheistic faith, fitting more with Christianity than Judaism.  Don Richardson explores this idea in Eternity in Their Hearts with the philosophy behind this story- what it might have been like ifthe belief in Quetzalcoatl had still existed at the time of the coming of Christian missions.	2002-04-02
US	51761391	R3BS9GWPKCGD5W	0917201507	690463728	Asterix the Gaul (Adventures of Asterix)	Books	4	26	27	N	N	A Little Bit of Fun	Someplace growing up I ran into the Asterix titles, with a four volume set beginning with Asterix the Gaul. As a child I enjoyed the antics; as an adult I enjoy the puns and historical allusions. It continually amazes me to realize that this is originally a French production, and yet translated into English and some 20 other languages, and the puns *still* translate! That's not easy to do. And while later episodes decline in quality and are suitable more for children, stories like Asterix the Gaul are great for children of 30 years too.<br />The very names provide example of brilliant use of dialogue. Asterix- a small, seeming addition. Obelisk, who delivers menhirs. Getafix, the Druid. (Remember, this series began in the 60's.) Cacaphonix, the Bard, and Vitalstatistix, the chief. In the same vein, the authors use contemporary differences between cultures and play them upon the ancient Gaulish-Roman dispute. This is about the only place one can find swearing in Latin- \\"ipso facto\\", \\"sic\\", etc. Or the taking of Toutanis' name in vain.	2002-03-28
US	51761391	R1XBHOZA55T5RZ	0553290088	311894847	Alternate Wars (What Might Have Been, Vol. 3)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	If	Third in a volume of great alternative histories, Volume III, Alternate Wars, is an anthology of mediocre, poor, good, and great stories.  Isn't every anthology?<br /><br />And Wild For to Hold is pretty good, describing history if Anne Boleyn hadn't been around to be divorced, and the religious strife begun in England from the Act of Supremacy.  But the story focuses more on an abducted Anne in the future, using all of the wiles of the historical Anne to take control of her new situation.  It is a unique approach in alternative histories- what if the historical individual acted as she did historically, but in a future time?<br /><br />Tundra Moss focuses on an Alaskan communications station and what would have happened if President Roosevelt had gotten sick and not given his \\"Day of Infamy\\" speech, leading to America working only on the Japanese War first and waiting to get involved in Europe.  When Free Men Shall Stand is surprisingly poorly written, considering it's Poul Anderson, and describes an America with the Louisiana Territory still permanently under French control, and America at war with the great French power.  It's simply very difficult to follow.<br /><br />Arms and the Woman is the first excellent story in this collection, and not surprisingly, coming from James Morrow, who wrote another great story, Abe Lincoln at McDonalds, in Volume II of this collection.  Here he describes what might have happened if Helen had stepped outside Troy and realized this war was being fought over her, with thousands of men dying for her.  This is an interesting story because it stretches very far back into our history- further than all other stories in this collection to date- to a time that is shrouded in myth.  We believe that Homer wrote history, but it is a history from a time when men understood that myth was equal with history.  It deals with questions that influence so much of our lives because they occurred so early in the time stream.  Morrow's writing style is also very enjoyable, tongue-in-cheek, with many humorous asides, down to the style of prophylactic.<br /><br />I generally enjoy Turtledove, and Ready for the Fatherland was well written as usual, but it was simply too depressing.  What if Hitler was killed by one of his generals during the Soviet campaign, causing Germany to pull back and sue for peace, controlling most of Continental Europe, with the result that England and America had to deal with both the Soviets and the Nazis for the next forty years plus?  The actions of England in response are just too sad.<br /><br />If you're looking for excellent literature, where the characters and setting come alive before you, read The Tomb.  Here Constantine takes on the sign of the cross as his standard, but fails in his attack on Maxentius.  Unfortunately, the author doesn't have a firm grasp on history, as he posits this would lead to the disappearance of Christianity.  This shows no understanding of the strength of Christianity in the East, completely independent of the vagaries of the Empire, continuing under Islam and under the Persian Empire.  In truth, the majority of Christians lived East of Antioch for the first 1000 years as Nestorians, with over a million spread throughout Asia- it was a predominantly Asian religion.  And just as it grew by leaps and bounds under intense Roman persecution, it would not have needed Roman support to survive in the West.<br /><br />Of anything Malzberg has written in this collection, Turpentine was the best.  But that's not saying much.  What if a bunch of college kids had gotten a hold of a nuclear reactor and threatened to blow up a school here in America, during the Johnson administration?  It doesn't really have a historical divergence, or present much contact with reality, and Malzberg uses a confusing writing style without quote marks.  Still, it was interesting to contemplate the possibilities.<br /><br />Goddard's People was another great work, in which the space race occurs earlier between Germany and America during WWII- based on actual evidence we have of German work on rockets and the Father of Modern Rocketry, Robert Goddard.  Manassas, Again could be easily removed from this collection- this despite it being written by one of the editors.  What if there is a war between robots and humans?  It doesn't really relate to any historical divergence.  Benford adds in that it is the early 1800's, war has been abolished, and the Roman Empire is still around, but America is free- but that is one paragraph, and you get no sense at all of how that relates to this robot war.<br /><br />Likewise The Number of the Sand was a substandard work.  It looks at quantum possibilities, which simply get overused these days in science fiction.  What are all the different scenarios for Hannibal's life?  The upside of this work is it made me realize how little I knew about his campaigns and I had to look up more to read about the events of the Carthaginian Empire.  Sadly, I didn't even know there was one.  Now, because of this story, I do.<br /><br />If Lee Had Not Won the Battle of Gettysburg is a wonderful story by Sir Winston Churchill, PM of England, and it also encouraged me to read up more on the events of Gettysburg.  It imagines what *our* reality might be like from the perspective of an alternate future, while providing the details of the other reality.  Not only a great PM, but a great author too.<br /><br />If Theodore Roosevelt had been able to get involved in WWI, we have Over There.  It is a great work to end this collection on, as it sees how war has changed.  Rather than a specific historical figure, it uses Roosevelt as the type and looks at how a 19th century warrior might fare in the 20th.- based on actual evidence we have of German work on rockets and the Father of Modern Rocketry, Robert Goddard.  Manassas, Again could be easily removed from this collection- this despite it being written by one of the editors.  What if there is a war between robots and humans?  It doesn't really relate to any historical divergence.  Benford adds in that it is the early 1800's, war has been abolished, and the Roman Empire is still around, but America is free- but that is one paragraph, and you get no sense at all of how that relates to this robot war.     Likewise The Number of the Sand was a substandard work.  It looks at quantum possibilities, which simply get overused these days in science fiction.  What are all the different scenarios for Hannibal's life?  The upside of this work is it made me realize how little I knew about his campaigns and I had to look up more to read about the events of the Carthaginian Empire.  Sadly, I didn't even know there was one.  Now, because of this story, I do.    If Lee Had Not Won the Battle of Gettysburg is a wonderful story by Sir Winston Churchill, PM of England, and it also encouraged me to read up more on the events of Gettysburg.  It imagines what *our* reality might be like from the perspective of an alternate future, while providing the details of the other reality.  Not only a great PM, but a great author too.    If Theodore Roosevelt had been able to get involved in WWI, we have Over There.  It is a great work to end this collection on, as it sees how war has changed.  Rather than a specific historical figure, it uses Roosevelt as the type and looks at how a 19th century warrior might fare in the 20th.	2002-03-23
US	51761391	R2O1RNG8G57XR5	0553282794	1681416	ALTERNATE HEROES (What Might Have Been)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Time and Again	After reading this kind of work I find myself constantly thinking of how things might play out with even different day-to-day actions.  The stories engrain your thoughts.  But this was not quite as good of a book as the first volume, as many of the stories were substandard, although there are a few very good ones and therefore the book as a whole is worth recommending.<br /><br />A Sleep and a Forgetting has a surprise twist, as many of alterative reality stories do, and is about an instrument that allows people to talk with historical figures through the electromagnetic waves of the sun.  In this a major butcher accepts Christ.  It is fairly well wrought.<br /><br />Old Man and C is if Einstein had decided to pick up the violin instead, and is just not well written- you don't get the sense of history changing because of his decision.  Mules in Horses' Harness is also poorly written- it takes place in the South, with the North having won, but the South is independent- and you never learn how this is possible!  And Lenin in Odessa operates with the idea of Lenin having been killed- but it seems to result in the same history we have today, and there is no gripping writing.<br /><br />*The* great question is presented in The Last Article- how would Gandhi's tactics apply to the Nazis?  The Nazis take over India because America never entered WWII.  It is quite well written, but unfortunately Harry Turtledove, the author, has not read enough of nonviolent history and practices.  Violent response only works half the time, historically.  Someone always loses.  Nonviolent action, when applied, is statistically much more successful.  *And* the only time Hitler was stopped in WWII, other than the final putsch by the Allies, was when nonviolent action was practiced.  In Denmark, when the Jews were forced to wear a yellow star, the King also joined them, and his subjects all followed his lead.  Even the Nazis were unwilling to kill an entire nation of white Northern Gentiles, and so the Jews were not wiped out from Denmark, as the Nazis couldn't tell the difference between them and Gentiles.  Unfortunately, Turtledove's ending doesn't conform to likely historical reality, and is only a slim possibility.<br /><br />Abe Lincoln at McDonald's is the first really excellent story in this compendium.  What if Lincoln had signed the treaty had signed the Seward Treaty for peace with the South and slavery had expanded throughout the Territories and eventually became acceptable in the North as well?  It is a very tragic reality, with modern times interposed completely with slavery, and horrible thoughts like a \\"Super Slaver\\" where you can buy 10 month old just-weaned slaves for your little girl.<br /><br />After reading Barry Malzberg's Another G-dd--ned Showboat, I've realized, upon contemplating his previous work, that he's simply just a bad writer.  His stories make no sense- they really *do* sound like they came from a chapter in a larger work, as another reviewer said.  What if Hemmingway had become a Science Fiction writer?<br /><br />But Loose Cannon was another of those stories that makes this genre so wonderful.  What if Sir Lawrence had *not* died that tragic day on a motorcycle (see the beginning of Lawrence of Arabia) and had been available to meet that other great European general of the desert, Rommel?  Susan Schwartz very effectively captures the character of Lawrence.<br /><br />A Letter From the Pope was well done- what if the almost-last King of the Britons, Alfred, had decided to embrace a multi-religious state instead of encouraging the conquered Vikings to become Christian?<br /><br />It was nice to finally see some alternate realities that considered the Muslims.  Roncesvalles is such a story, where Charlemagne considers between his native Aryanist-paganism, joining the Muslim empire, and joining Byzantium's Orthodoxy.  It was fairly well written, but had some historical problems- it is unlikely that the Muslims would have differentiated enough between Orthodoxy and Aryanism, for instance, to see the latter as pagan worship.<br /><br />His Powder'd Wig, His Crown of Thornes was well written, with a neat idea- what if the Native Americans had joined the British and Benedict Arnold had succeeded in betraying George Washington?  And so you have Arnoldsburg, District of Cornwallis.  Marc Laidlaw works very well with the ideas of hagiography and martyrdom as applied to Washington- but in the end the descriptions are simply so disgusting it turned me off to the entire story.  Some images in there you do *not* want to read.<br /><br />Instability is if the H-Bomb had not been developed.  It is confusing and vulgar.  No Spot of Ground concerns if Edgar Allen Poe had become a General in the Confederate War.  It tends to drag out quite a bit, without historical divergences of significance, but has some good thoughts on how Poe might have acted within a military situation.<br /><br />For me, however, the greatest story was Departures, again by the master author, Turtledove.  It is a historical contingency I have often considered writing a novel on myself, though certainly with very different approaches.  It considers a merchant turned monk who has flashes of divine inspiration in the composing of hymns to God.  His monastery needs to prepare for the coming attack by the Persians.  There is no Muslim Empire in this alternate reality., to see the latter as pagan worship.    His Powder'd Wig, His Crown of Thornes was well written, with a neat idea- what if the Native Americans had joined the British and Benedict Arnold had succeeded in betraying George Washington?  And so you have Arnoldsburg, District of Cornwallis.  Marc Laidlaw works very well with the ideas of hagiography and martyrdom as applied to Washington- but in the end the descriptions are simply so disgusting it turned me off to the entire story.  Some images in there you do *not* want to read.    Instability is if the H-Bomb had not been developed.  It is confusing and vulgar.  No Spot of Ground concerns if Edgar Allen Poe had become a General in the Confederate War.  It tends to drag out quite a bit, without historical divergences of significance, but has some good thoughts on how Poe might have acted within a military situation.    For me, however, the greatest story was Departures, again by the master author, Turtledove.  It is a historical contingency I have often considered writing a novel on myself, though certainly with very different approaches.  It considers a merchant turned monk who has flashes of divine inspiration in the composing of hymns to God.  His monastery needs to prepare for the coming attack by the Persians.  There is no Muslim Empire in this alternate reality.	2002-03-17
US	51761391	R24TRQTSDF3WXN	0553278452	92451682	Alternate Empires (What Might Have Been, Vol. 1)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	For Better or Worse	Anthologies are hard to rate, for obvious reasons. I *do* love alternative history, and wish there were more of this genre. Ideas on changes in history, though not practical in the slightest, are the height of idealism- we look to see what we can learn about ideas and ourselves by seeing how things might have changed. So I was excited to come across this 4 volume set in the antique mall of a seaside town in the NorthWest. The stories seem to be basically of three sorts- What if something were changed in history to make things worse? What if something were changed to make life better? What if an alternative reality was changed to make it conform to our own?<br /><br />Some stories depend on their surprise ending with a particular historical twist. In the House of Sorrows is just such a story, taking place in the Middle East. Unfortunately, without knowing the historical era, it is a very confusing read; but well worth it for the twist. However, I found the one major drawback to the anthology as a whole to be the complete lack of discussion of the Islamic and Arabic empires.<br /><br />Remaking History looks at how the Iranian Hostage Crisis ending differently might have effected world events. Counting Potsherds was a very engaging story philosophically looking at if Athens had lost to the Persian Empire long ago.<br /><br />Leapfrog also has the secret historical twist, and takes place on a Soviet space station around Mars, with a complete multi-national population. Everything But Honor also had some great ideas on philosophy- how much we value people- with changes in the Civil War to become *our* reality.<br /><br />We Could Do Worse was a rather boring look at America under Martial Law in the 1960's. To the Promised Land explored a radically different world, in Egypt, if the Jews had never escaped Egypt some 3,000 years ago. Similarly, Waiting for the Olympians looks at a world ruled by the Roman Empire because of one key event not occurring in the past. I liked the references to the Cherokee and Algonkan nations, as well as Quetzalcoatl of the Aztecs being simply one of the many gods of the pantheon. This was definitely the best story of the lot. One could see the Jews reinterpreting the Torah to embrace polytheism in this scenario, as they are faced with a completely polytheistic world. And it was amazing to postulate how a single event could change the way humans think about the basic nature of morality.<br /><br />All Assassins and Game Night at the Fox and Goose were both very mediocre in my opinion, with the former looking at obscure historical figures in the 1970's- so obscure you had no feeling for the historical changes; and the latter looking at a world where women were in charge, but the plotline falls flat at the end. The Return of William Proxmire was a rather navelic look at the history of science fiction writing.and Algonkan nations, as well as Quetzalcoatl of the Aztecs being simply one of the many gods of the pantheon. This was definitely the best story of the lot. One could see the Jews reinterpreting the Torah to embrace polytheism in this scenario, as they are faced with a completely polytheistic world. And it was amazing to postulate how a single event could change the way humans think about the basic nature of morality.     All Assassins and Game Night at the Fox and Goose were both very mediocre in my opinion, with the former looking at obscure historical figures in the 1970's- so obscure you had no feeling for the historical changes; and the latter looking at a world where women were in charge, but the plotline falls flat at the end. The Return of William Proxmire was a rather navelic look at the history of science fiction writing.	2002-03-15
US	51761391	R3B62NPAOKSZ6H	1573227161	950636517	Caucasia: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Passable	An excellent work on passing, Senna paints the world of African-American culture and racism, making it accessible to those from other cultures.  We see how the different shades of skin color effect one's life, even within the African-American community, and the interplay of what it means to be Black verses African-American.<br /><br />What makes someone Black?  How is that different from being African-American?  As in the movie Running On Empty, Senna also shows us a vivid psychological portrait of constant forced movement.  With the exception of some unfortunate lesbian tangents that detract from the main point of the story, a highly commendable book.	2002-03-08
US	51761391	R2VLOAQ8446VD5	0310233089	479876779	The Connecting Church	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Why is the mormon church so Attractive?	And what was it that made true Christianity so attractive?  Frazee returns us to those days of yesteryear.  He helps Americans get from where they are to real Christian Community, in steps they can relate to, and in a manner much easier to relate to than my own extreme views.  Small groups aren't enough- we need to go further- by having a common purpose, a common place, and common possessions.  Frazee argues that we as Americans are statistically among the loneliest people on earth, and in large part because we as Christians don't practice the Gospel.<br /><br />I grew up in a Christian commune and have been part of five Christian communities, and still found a lot to gain from this book.  At times the practical applications were not as helpful as the theoretical, but it is still an immensely practical book.  I could understand the importance of common purpose, as I have been part of a Christian community which related in a common place, with meals and minimal common possessions, but had no common purpose.  We came from all different theological backgrounds, with many different ministry foci.  Ultimately, there was not significant cohesion or oneness without that common purpose.<br /><br />The second section of common place I found the most helpful, as I think about changes in moving shortly:  considering where to move to, to be close to my church building, close to work to shorten commutes, close to other people of my church.  Frazee makes the strong point that we lose so much time in driving, and in isolation at that, that we lose out on the bread of life of relationship.  This is certainly true in areas like Seattle with it's extreme traffic.  I also desire to apply his ideas on getting to know neighbors- simple things, which he goes into great detail on, such as waving, pop-ins, even borrowing (and returning!) items.<br /><br />I certainly appreciated the final section on common possessions.  However, it appears that Frazee steps back a little bit from the extreme counter-culturalism previously advocated- perhaps because of his awareness of American attachment to possessions.  He doesn't only argue that our focus on the material is inhibiting us- but that materialism which leads to the pursuit of mammon leads to individualism which in turn leads to isolation- destroying everything common in our lives.<br /><br />Frazee is concerned with quality, not quantity.  As such he is a welcome respite from the emphasis on church growth that sweeps American church thinking, as well as churches like the Toronto Blessing movement which would seek to focus on only the individual's relationship with God, and not the relationship with one another.  There are two greatest commandments, and the second like unto the first.<br /><br />But most of all, I would encourage reading this book just for that rare opportunity to see the TV show Friends praised for what it shows us about Christ.reviously advocated- perhaps because of his awareness of American attachment to possessions.  He doesn't only argue that our focus on the material is inhibiting us- but that materialism which leads to the pursuit of mammon leads to individualism which in turn leads to isolation- destroying everything common in our lives.    Frazee is concerned with quality, not quantity.  As such he is a welcome respite from the emphasis on church growth that sweeps American church thinking, as well as churches like the Toronto Blessing movement which would seek to focus on only the individual's relationship with God, and not the relationship with one another.  There are two greatest commandments, and the second like unto the first.    But most of all, I would encourage reading this book just for that rare opportunity to see the TV show Friends praised for what it shows us about Christ.	2002-03-08
US	51761391	RM8XEZR1XV6ET	0965834522	921768480	Hellspark	Books	4	4	9	N	Y	A Motley of Worlds	Despite the unfortunate title, a very engrossing work.  Hell-spark has the best features of Star Trek in the extreme mixture of many different cultures, human and non-human and non-humanoid.  Although the novel dragged in some places and some editing could have helped more quickly to reach the d&eacute;nouement, I highly recommend it because it changed my thoughts as I read it.  I found myself thinking of people and the culture they were from, and how that interacted with my own culture; how we spoke differently, gestured differently, thought differently.  Kagan paints such a vivid picture of the various cultures you would think her a sociologist with a personal grasp of the extremes of human Earth cultures.  Tocohl, the protagonist,  plays the role of the evangelist, bringing together all segments of humanity into the Kingdom- for this is the diversity I would imagine there.  The best part of Hells-park was the humans, and Hell-spark was the best kind of science fiction- not focusing on the science, but using it as a background to describe more of who we are.	2002-03-07
US	51761391	R1V72FGB42BB4X	0849962153	359481118	Is Jesus a Republican or a Democrat	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Compassion and Truth	Tony Campolo is a compassionate, thinking Christian, who has the Lewisian knack of communicating with the average guy on the street.  Repeatedly he directs his thoughts to what the Bible says, and what he thinks Jesus would have done- irrespective of what his culture, or any other culture, might say.  He may not always get it right- but that's what is so great about Tony- he in all humility admits that- but he truly tries to get to the center of the issues.  I particularly enjoyed the last two essays on the situation of the poor, and the Christian response to both the poor, and Poverty.  Other great essays on this cassette are<br />*Do Christians Promote Gay-Bashing?<br />*Are Christian Talk Shows Christian?<br />*What About Prayer in Public Schools?<br />*Is Television Demonic?<br />*Is that Preacher Who Killed the Abortion Doctor Guilty of Murder?<br />*Should Christians Support Gun Control? and<br />*Do Christians Have a Right to Take Over America?<br />I rate the book down to four stars only because it turns out the audio version is abridged, and this is not revealed until the conclusion.<br />In all of these essays Tony speaks in a very disarming manner, freely discussing how has views were changed and formed.  And it is always an added bonus in an audio book to get to hear the author's true voice.  It is almost like a fireside chat rather than a dry rendition.	2002-02-01
US	51761391	R2LCQQXUSWJEWF	0884191338	991005789	Bruchko	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	New Trails in Missiology	Not only great content, but surprisingly well written. Bruce Olson interweaves different times thematically, without taking the easy path so many authors do of simply starting at some time in the future and then telling the rest of the story behind it. Rather, the different chapters are placed together to reveal the ideas, as past, present, and future tense weave themselves together.<br /><br /> There are wonderful stories here that I can only partially reveal- &quot;flat mice&quot;, butterflies in the mouth, and others that moved me to tears. Bruchko faced an incredibly hard life- one I couldn't possibly emulate. But he writes with such a humble style, not as a &quot;saint&quot; or holier-than-thou; he was so easy to relate to, that I think I could go through these trials. He did. And yet the struggles he describes- they are definitely incredibly hard.<br /><br /> Missiologically, there are some great redemptive analogies present, like banana stalks and man-ants. He has some nice recognition that folk practioners aren't always demonic, but can at times be praying to God. The easy path would be to label them all as true &quot;witch doctors&quot;. But Bruchko never takes the easy path. All the more surprising in that he had no formal missiological training or a mission agency. Perhaps that's why he could take new roads; new trails. He provides the proof that one doesn't have to go the authorized route of a mission board that is so trumped up these days.<br /><br /> It was nice to see his growing acceptance of the miraculous, and that it was a new thing to him too initially. I think it would have been better however to focus a bit more on God's power to heal, and one of the few flaws I find in his missions approach is so closely identifying bacteria with the demonic. Yes, it is something the Motilone could relate to- but it sets them up for some pretty bad theology later. Though some good resulted in this analogy- the belief that God is involved in all healings- this could cause problems in the future as Western medicine is related to anything that is miraculous.<br /><br /> Other than that, I would highly recommend this book, and the missiological theology therein.ms in the future as Western medicine is related to anything that is miraculous.       Other than that, I would highly recommend this book, and the missiological theology therein.	2002-01-25
US	51761391	R1PC81D35PPYYY	0023285192	225038436	An Introduction to Islam, 2nd Edition	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Do you want to learn about Islam?	Let's say you know nothing about Islam. But you want to learn everything about it that can be learned in one book, and in a readable format. Pick up Denny. He covers the full gamut of psychology, religion, history, sociology, and much more, in a way the layman can easily understand. There are times when he seems to accept a little too much the Muslim version of history without investigating it further, but in general he seems to respect Islamic beliefs and still maintain a historical critical perspective. Especially helpful is the background in Mesopotamian beliefs, Judaism, and Christianity provided before hand. It frames the Islamic movement historically, and also provides an easy etic segue for the typical Western reader. And while Denny goes into great detail on orthodox and folk Islam, he is to be additionally commended for the sections on Sufism, which often get short shrift in scholarly works on Islam.<br /><br />The title is apt. After reading this, one will know Islam thoroughly at the introductory level.	2002-01-22
US	51761391	R38M1HJ4UEDBS4	055329024X	707064829	Earth	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The World of 2040	An amazing pre-sentient work, Earth explores the world fifty years from now with astonishing accuracy and vividness.  Writing before the development of the world wide web, Brin describes nearly completely what we have today, and will likely in forty years, with a world culture dependent on the web for all it's information.  It is a possible future, but a very likely one.  Here, there is mandatory time spent on the net, as it is too important for survival, and though one may not have enough for food in the next day, still access to the world web is free.  With this and the ever presence of personal vid-cams has come the complete death of privacy.  Warming has continued apace, and so Bangladesh and the Maldives are gone, with floating cities to take their place.  The world has finally realized the importance of the environment- only because it is forced to- and dropping a cup in the water can get you prison time.  White folks are in trouble especially from the lack of ozone layer, and new religions have arisen- Gaiaism and interestingly neo-Raism, with the recognition of the sun as a power that can destroy lives through skin cancer.<br />I have to reduce this from five stars only because the last quarter of the book becomes more magic than science fiction or scientific realism, and the improbabilities become too great.  But I would highly recommend this work for the vision of a very likely future which we should all be prepared for.	2001-12-31
US	51761391	R2G5HA6M8DZS1H	0735812004	920324125	Good King Wenceslas	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	Ye Who Will Bless the Poor, Shall Yourselves Find Blessing	An excellent children's book of one of the greatest carols ever. This carol above all proclaims the social justice of the Gospel; the need to share what we have with others, even in the face of our own adversity, and at the loss of our own pleasure. It's only the more wonderful in that it's based on the story of an actual king, Wenceslas, the patron saint of the Czech Republic, who worked tirelessly for his five years in office to bring Christianity to his country of Bohemia. With very beautiful illustrations with a Gothic style of writing, the entire carol is included, a verse for each illustration, along with the notes at the end to sing along with. Children of about 30 should enjoy this work as well.	2001-12-25
US	51761391	R23Y8292Q5QYKQ	0967673712	414994066	Princess Sultana's Circle	Books	5	49	54	N	Y	Women of the World, Unite!	Having now finished the trilogy, I highly recommend all three, including the last installment. It's not the best writing always, but it is a valuable glimpse into the mysteries of female life on the peninsula. As a man, much of this world is forbidden to me. I enjoy studying Islamic culture, but I am naturally restricted in observation to the world of men, whereas Western women can at times be with women, and be \\"honorary men\\" in the world of men. So I am indebted to depictions such as this, getting into the mind, heart, and life of a woman.<br /><br /> Sultana isn't always the most likable character- but, at least in the version written by Sasson, she freely admits this. And there are times when it is difficult to believe that this actually comes from a true Saudi woman, because of the great awareness the protagonist has of Western points of view.<br /><br /> I appreciate the insights the book gives into one particular worldview- that of a wealthy, royal, Saudi woman. She effectively communicates the oppression she faces as a woman, and yet the extreme privilege she has obtained by being born into the House of Saud. But there are a number of times when Sultana's unquestioned assumptions are more revealing than her message. The quickness of husbands to buy something to soothe their wives only serves to placate the women and buy them off from truly grappling with reality- it dismisses their genuine concerns by encouraging them to find answer in wealth rather than God. Likewise, Sultana and Sasson do a very effective job of showing the great discrimination by women faced on the peninsula, but bend over backwards to praise the religion of Islam and separate it from what Sultana faces on a daily basis. Sadly, while the Wahhabi sect in Saudi Arabia has certainly gone much further than the Qur'an in it's treatment of women, there are strong seeds of second-class status in the Qur'an and hadith themselves. This is seen in places where women are considered as less equal to a man in inheritance, the argument by Muslim theologians being that women need to be protected by men, and therefore men should have more money. Likewise in hadith (stories of Mohammed) that Sultana herself quotes about Mohammed having to redo prayer if a woman walked in front of him, and in the story that Sultana relates, again relying on Hadith, that a woman's silence means agreement to a marriage. This of course is based on a premise that women should be silent, not expressing themselves, and men should be doing the talking and thinking.<br /><br />These books are valuable, I believe, primarily because they reveal a world that needs such healing. Not simply a change in the actions of the Saudi government and religious police, but a change in the very nature and core of Islamic belief systems. Again and again Sultana shows us a world where the concept of gender reconciliation is completely foreign. Even when she has problems with a comparatively loving husband, she turns to scheming and gossip for answers; others turn to magic to control their husbands. These are the only answers they know. There is no call from either gender to try to understand the opposite, in order to fully love them. Understandably, for there is no call in Islam itself for this. Sultana's Circles shows us the fully surmountable obstacles to love.eritance, the argument by Muslim theologians being that women need to be protected by men, and therefore men should have more money. Likewise in hadith (stories of Mohammed) that Sultana herself quotes about Mohammed having to redo prayer if a woman walked in front of him, and in the story that Sultana relates, again relying on Hadith, that a woman's silence means agreement to a marriage. This of course is based on a premise that women should be silent, not expressing themselves, and men should be doing the talking and thinking.      These books are valuable, I believe, primarily because they reveal a world that needs such healing. Not simply a change in the actions of the Saudi government and religious police, but a change in the very nature and core of Islamic belief systems. Again and again Sultana shows us a world where the concept of gender reconciliation is completely foreign. Even when she has problems with a comparatively loving husband, she turns to scheming and gossip for answers; others turn to magic to control their husbands. These are the only answers they know. There is no call from either gender to try to understand the opposite, in order to fully love them. Understandably, for there is no call in Islam itself for this. Sultana's Circles shows us the fully surmountable obstacles to love.	2001-11-17
US	51761391	R1GVE5C9DV3GJT	0310205093	328094300	The Search for Fierra (Empyrion, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	God placed eternity in their hearts, on a planet far away...	It took me awhile to see where Lawhead was going with this one, but it was well worth it. Unlike his other SciFi work, Dream Thief, this has more of a fantasy element to it- something like Lewis' Space Trilogy. It is certainly more scientific than Lewis, but the science seems to exist more to put the characters in a new environment- whereas Dream Thief was the classic \\"What might life be like then?\\"<br /><br /> There is so little Christian SciFi in existence it is exciting to grab it when it appears. But be warned- this work is definitely not complete- it is not the first in a series, but more the first in a two-parter. The story is in no way resolved by the end of the first book. Also, before Lawhead really explains the situation in the main city of the novel, one is very confused by all the names and references to different groupings- it would have been better to have detailed that earlier.<br /><br /> This was a great read primarily as a companion to Don Richardson's Eternity in Their Hearts. Don makes the argument that all people groups throughout time have been prepared for the Gospel by images of God within their own culture. Search for Fierra applies this type of idea to another culture in the future, or possible future. How would God, YHWH, reveal Himself to a people on another planet with no knowledge of Him? As he explores this idea he gives a gripping allegorical description of hell and paradise. And there seems to be an indication of the idea that the Trinity is a revelation of God that we see, but it may not be the entirety of Him- He may be more than simply Three. An intriguing idea to be sure.<br /><br />[[ASIN:0745918727 Empyrion: The Search for Fierra and The Siege of Dome]]	2001-11-13
US	51761391	R17BJHZ0XR5JGW	0830709258	720864877	Eternity in Their Hearts: Startling Evidence of Belief in the One True God in Hundreds of Cultures Throughout the World	Books	4	21	22	N	Y	God *does* love us all!	This book starts out amazingly and goes down from there. But the book starts out amazing. Don begins with earth-shaking insights into the unknown God that Paul preached off on. Learning this background to a fairly well-known story of Paul is worth the book alone. But the first half is an in-depth look at how YHWH, God, has been revealed in cultures from Africa to SE Asia to India to South America, long before European or Middle Eastern Christians arrived. It was a new and enlightening answer to me on why monotheism is so prevalent throughout the world. This book would be a great companion with [[ASIN:0830737847 Peace Child]], also by Don Richardson, and [[ASIN:0156904365 Till We Have Faces]], by Lewis- a fictional account of how someone can come to YHWH, the Judeo-Christian God, without ever having known Jewish culture or Christianity.  It offers hope to see how YHWH is present in Islamic belief systems as well.<br /><br />The last third of the book is less helpful. It deals with discrediting ideas of evolution by folks like Hitler and Neitzsche, ideas which have largely never been believed by biologists or were long ago discredited.  In the process Don repeats a lot of popular but inaccurate misconceptions of evolution, demonstrating some rather poor scholarship.  He then moves on to demonstrating that the Bible is a document designed for sending out people. This is certainly a good idea to investigate, and Don does a good job of it, but it is really a different subject from the first half and not tied to it by the author, and it would have been better as a separate book.<br /><br />However, though the quality at the end is not always the best, I would with all my heart recommend for any reader to pick this up and chew it. If you are Christian, it will show you the presence of YHWH everywhere. If you are Muslim or Jewish, it will show the idea of monotheism is certainly nothing new. And if are not Christian, it will force you to grapple with some very amazing coincidences.	2001-11-09
US	51761391	R32WJ3P5YVU48I	0877882509	451475009	Eyewitnesses: Dramatic Voices from the Gospels	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Deep Drama	This book is an excellent rendition of the supposed psychology behind many of the key players of the gospels. Don presents them in monologue and dialogue, revealing intriguing &quot;what ifs&quot; of what we might learn were we to actually talk with those present with Jesus- if they had written &quot;Confessions&quot; as Augustine did. A great resource for short dramatic presentations in churches or other settings.	2001-11-09
US	51761391	R3OKJF8OOMU1SZ	0802843344	407435406	Cease Fire: Searching for Sanity in America's Culture Wars	Books	4	5	6	N	N	How to get from Civil Religion to Christianity, civilally	Tom has a very simple message- live as the Bible states, not as we want it to state. He presents in general terms what that might mean, and in specific terms what the radical Christian left and revolutionary Christian right would like it to mean. As a liberal, I liked it a lot more when he harshed on conservatives, and found myself agreeing with Tom more at these points, but in truth he is very equimeniable and kind in his treatment of both groups, writing alongside, as a brother.<br /><br />Cease Fire traces the developments of modernism and enlightenment humanism, showing how American Christianity has been co-opted by evangelical dualism and materialism, creating a civil religion that is true idolatry. Of interest in today's world, many in the Religious Right end up pursuing a jihad that puts them much closer to Islamic theology than Christian. Tom has some intriguing tid-bits, like what it means to be truly pro-life- and the conservatives definitely don't have the fix on that. He shows how the development of dispensationalism and pre-millenialism is something rather new in American and Church history, and the dangers talk radio has to Christian theology and our way of life. There are humorous asides throughout the book, like the interplay of 666 and Reagan and Limbaugh. You'll have to read the book however to find how he builds on these and other ideas.<br /><br />Of what I would have liked to see differently, there are only some minor changes. In his futurism looking at what could happen in the future, there is nothing on the radical left succeeding, and it would be interesting to take a look at an America where this happens. In looking at combating materialism and wealth, Tom doesn't address the possibility of Acts-style community as a solvent response, but in conversations with the author during a class he expressed much support for the idea. And of course, this book was written seven years ago, an a lot has changed now- including the Clinton scandals and the Tragedy. There is so much that is helpful in this book for understanding how American Christianity has interplayed, it would be wonderful to have a revised edition with more recent current events addressed.is so much that is helpful in this book for understanding how American Christianity has interplayed, it would be wonderful to have a revised edition with more recent current events addressed.	2001-11-09
US	51761391	R2DJEV6MKH1MG2	0830704159	203228726	Peace Child	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	The Enfleshment of Redemption Analogy	A very engrossing book, and a quick, light read- I finished it in basically one day. I loved how Richardson made his characters- real people- come to life in his description of the Sawi before the coming of Europeans and Canadians. Telling the first third of the book in second person Sawi-perspective is an effective literary device that allows us to really understand such a foreign culture from en emic (insider) perspective. The contrast of the two cultures is also engaging- I found myself often laughing as the Don and the Sawi tried to understand each other.<br />I would have liked some way to track the different characters of the story, as there are so many they often get confusing. And it would have been nice to hear more of the mission work of Don's wife, Carol, as she was doing a lot, but you hear little of her story, or the story of the Sawi women from their perspective- something that would naturally need to happen from Carol's engagement with the Sawi. But it was exciting to hear these redemption analogies enfleshed, and to see ways that God's words can be brought to a people from within their own understanding, just as He came to the Hebrews, Hellenistic society, and the barbarian European tribes of my ancestors. I finished wanting the stories of Sawi life to continue.	2001-11-03
US	51761391	R2IQQ8PD35K845	0812576403	85474640	The Light of Other Days	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Come, Let us a Build Something, to Save Ourselves	While reading this book I had the constant feeling someone was looking over my shoulder and watching every action I did. Clarke pulls you in that well- you take on the mind(s) of the universe he created. And his ability to predict the near future was as prescient as Brin in Earth. Though not a certain future, it was certainly a strongly possible one.<br /><br /> But I wish I had not been drawn into his universe; it is not one I liked when I looked around. And this is the largest flaw with the novel. It is a strong manifestation of enlightenment humanism, the belief that humanity can truly be it's own salvation. If we just apply our minds well enough, and use our technology in the correct way, there is no greater being to get in our way. Thus the miraculous becomes hoax, psychosomatic, or applied psychology. There is room for a God of morality and a great God \\"watching us from a distance\\", but the excluded middle of spirituality becomes so strong that Jesus becomes a product of an extramarital affair and his miracles all explainable by modern scientific methods. Relying on long discredited Gnostic sources and Jesus Seminar self-proofs, Clarke creates a Jesus who is merely attempting to create a Hellenistic-Jewish synthesis, partly in response to the loss of his wife. The only bone thrown out is that the history of Jesus' death and resurrection is not observable, implying that something special *might* have happened there. As one of the characters says, \\"We may have lost Christ, but we have found Jesus.\\" Indeed, the goal of the Jesus Seminar, but nothing like what finds in history.<br /><br /> Though the episode on Jesus is a minor point in the novel, it is indicative of the overarching theme. While relying on supposed quantum technology, Clarke ignores the inherent uncertainty in life which has been shown to us through the study of quantum mechanics. We have a world where everything can be achieved, by man alone. One day, we will get there. We have the technology. We will just build a better machine, and through that, we can reach transcendence. The worst part of enlightenment humanism is that it is ultimately hopeless and disappointing. If we are the end of it all, it is a disappointing future indeed.uild a better machine, and through that, we can reach transcendence. The worst part of enlightenment humanism is that it is ultimately hopeless and disappointing. If we are the end of it all, it is a disappointing future indeed.	2001-11-03
US	51761391	R1YOQIXTLKX6TR	0786406666	364259761	When the Sleeper Wakes: A Critical Text of the 1899 New York and London First Edition, With an Introduction and Appendices (The Annotated H. G. Wells, 5)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good Story, Edition could be improved	The story is very engrossing, coming to life before you.  We follow the protagonist with great interest as he is projected far into the future (through a coma), a future uncanningly like our own.  The reader will be able to identify with much of the 20th and 21st century reality around them, but with strange twists.  Flight (unknown in Well's day) is commonplace, but planes with moving wings.  It is a future predicated around the sleeper, a dystopia gone awry, ruled in the sleeper's name in order to oppress the masses in a socialist nightmare.  Wells further convincingly demonstrates \\"the principle of violent mimicry\\" (see Walter Wink, Engaging the Powers)- we become that which we hate. As throughout history, when the oppressed or powerless obtain freedom and power, they become like their oppressors.<br /><br />However, unless you're a scholar, I wouldn't recommend this edition. Although greatly annotated by Stover, the annotations detract from the text. Wells makes numerous references that are more understandable if one is British or lived in the 1800's, and when a footnote is next to one of these references, one naturally looks down below to better understand the context. But Stover repeatedly gives away key aspects of the storyline and the ending, thereby detracting from the reading of the text.<br /><br />In addition, some of the footnotes are incorrect. For instance, when at one point the protagonist, Graham, is referenced as \\"one man who must die for the nation\\", Stover comments this is an obvious attempt to compare Graham to Jesus in a fictitious quote from the gospel. But, says Stover, this quote is nowhere in the four synoptic Gospels. The problem is that there are only three synoptic Gospels- synoptic referring to the first three Gospels- and the quote if found in the non-synoptic Gospel of John- 11.50.	2001-10-25
US	51761391	RDP7T5ECFFDNC	0525457585	997417953	The Neverending Story	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A Fantasy to Spawn Imagination	The book is not one of the best children's books I've ever read. It's one of the best fantasy books I've ever read. The book was designed for adults, but children would find it enjoyable. Every chapter ends with, &quot;But that is another story.&quot; There were so many spin-offs of histories and stories which could have happened, which could have been pursued. Thankfully, they did not. We, the readers, get to complete the stories. This approach made one feel like this story *was* real, and continuing on. This feeling was furthered by the merging of reality and literature which is central to the storyline, reminding the reader that they are actually reading and watching, just as the main character is. And as the main character is drawn into the fantasy, so, maybe, we can be too.	2001-10-25
US	51761391	R28407PLD6QHWF	0939443155	287314520	The Search for Christian America	Books	5	33	37	N	Y	For every American Christian, and every Christian American:	A fascinating look at the truly history of Christianity and the American state. The authors present a very well-researched treatise on how our nation has never been a Christian nation- both because such a nation is impossible, and because we have never been truly a Christian people. But the authors don't present there case too extremely- they strongly promote and welcome the idea of America having been influenced substantially by Christians and Christian thinking. Of particular interest was the chapter on the American Rebellion and Revolution, in which they point out only four of the founding fathers- John Jay, John Witherspoon, Roger Sherman, and Patrick Henry- were what we would consider evangelical today, and even they were not putting Christ first in their theology at all times. The vast majority of the rest were of course Deist.<br /><br /> Though these ideas may seem radical to some readers, Noll et.al. presents a great deal of evidence to back up the work, including references to more scholarly work on the their part and a very helpful and informative bibliographic essay at the end. The text is designed for the general public, so is not cluttered with difficult theological or political concepts, or copious notes.<br /><br /> After reading this, I found I could not consider myself &quot;proud to be an American&quot;. Not that America is evil. Noll et.al. show clearly that there is a bit of God and a bit of satan in American history and culture, as there is in every society. But the clear presentation of how far America has been from the ideals of the gospel, and how often this gets covered up, was astounding. I am proud of the good parts- the God parts. But, if I once could, I can not now look at the history any longer and see it as something specially greater than that of other histories and other nations.	2001-10-21
US	51761391	R3ABJYK486USH4	0924722037	320707735	A Glimpse at Early Christian Church Life.	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	A Great Text...For the 2nd Century	There's three different ways I could rate this book. As a translation and edition of an ancient text, it is great- 5 stars. It is readable, with many notes for the modern reader, and those more confusing and redundant passages are relegated to the end. As a text of an early church father, and thus a window into the beliefs of the nascent church, I would also give it five stars, for it's historical value. However, for the writing itself- i.e. if Tertullian were alive today and writing and expressing what he does, I would give it two stars. I simply wouldn't agree with this author and the way he expresses himself. His logic is often incomplete or nonexistant, by modern standards. And he is rude and condescending. There is little of the Spirit of Christ in his expression- of patience, kindness, and forgiveness. Honestly, if he was my introduction to Christianity at the time, I would probably have turned to one of the mystery cults, hoping that there might be at least some semblance of love there.<br /><br />Thus an average rating of 4 stars.<br /><br />But Tertullian doesn't write in modern times. He writes in a time when the midrash technique was still popular in Christian sermons, and logical connections weren't as important as allegory and the history of Missio Deo. And he *is* an early church father. Which means, regardless of what I might personally think about his beliefs, they to some degree represent what the early church believed- those who were far closer to Jesus' words and person than I. If I take that seriously, then I also need to take some of Tertullian's ideas seriously as application to my walk today.<br /><br />I think there are times when his lapse into the Montanist heresy betray the orthodoxy of his thoughts. Though the Montanists were heretical in practice and not in theology, there practices did lead to influences and tweaking of belief, as they do for us all. They believed that the Spirit was available to Christians for inspiration in 200 AD in the same way that He had been for the apostles in 60 AD. They frowned on marriage and sex, and hence tended towards a more dualistic and anti-material, anti-flesh philosophy. They were very hard against the lapsi- those who had been with the faith and then left under persecution- even claiming they could not return to Christ in some cases.<br /><br />So you find these same beliefs expounded on by Tertullian. There is only one chance for salvation. Marriage is impure, and relations between men and women need to be carefully guarded. Angels can visit with revelations that change the way one would exegete a text. These ideas would not be supported by the majority of the orthodox church, but some of them are expressed in different ways in this text by Tertullian. His ideas on the scarving of women should be read in this light, as he has a very low view of gender reconciliation.<br /><br />The issue of scarving of women is also an element which appears to bring up cultural arguments. For instance, following along Paul's reasoning, Tertullian argues from the obvious assumptions that short hair on a woman or long hair on a man are ugly. While there are some valuable insights on loving our brothers and sisters with how we dress and behave, they should be read through the cultural lenses of the day.<br /><br />Other valuable aspects of Tertullian's speeches include: 1) His discussion of entertainment and the dangers of violence and sexual imagery. It is interesting to equate that to events we have today, like boxing, or sexuality in the movies. The same kind of sexuality we see today he had in the theaters at the time, and he makes a strong and reasonable case against even kissing on the movies. If they are not married/involved, what right have they to be kissing? 2) The discussion of the Lord's Prayer and prayer gave some interesting insights into prayer customs like raising hands in the shape of the cross and the stations of prayer- customs that are suprisingly similar tothose practiced today by followers of that other great Middle Eastern religion, Islam. And 3) his discussion of baptism gives good insights into the beliefs of the early believers on the centrality of baptism for salvation and it's ability to perform an actual work in the person through the grace of Christ. However, I believe due to his Montanist influences he doesn't represent well enough the prevailing belief that salvation was a necessary part of baptism but that it was still possible to die without it and be saved.<br /><br />I encourage a reading of this work, and others, to get a better grasp of what the early Christians did and believed.other great Middle Eastern religion, Islam. And 3) his discussion of baptism gives good insights into the beliefs of the early believers on the centrality of baptism for salvation and it's ability to perform an actual work in the person through the grace of Christ. However, I believe due to his Montanist influences he doesn't represent well enough the prevailing belief that salvation was a necessary part of baptism but that it was still possible to die without it and be saved.     I encourage a reading of this work, and others, to get a better grasp of what the early Christians did and believed.	2001-10-21
US	51761391	R1PPANXPTTKRKE	0310225884	533238813	The Christian Travelers Guide to France	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	A Best Way for the Christian Traveler in France	This is an awesome idea!  When I suddenly had an opportunity to travel to France for a short time with even less notice, I came across this book, and decided to make it somewhat of a spiritual pilgrimage.  I have often thought that there should be more to Christian historical travels than just Israel.  We have been in a few other places.  With the help of this book, I was able to have a much more invigorating and fulfilling trip.  I like to be able to both plan trips and be open to serendipity, and the guides in this book allowed me that opportunity.  I like to be able to both plan trips and be open to serendipity, and the guides in this book allowed me that opportunity.  So I went backwards through time, visiting the Abbey de Citeaux, a reform movement that returned to simplicity and poverty.  As the head of the Cisterians it became perhaps the biggest evangelistic outbreak in French history, with hundreds of monasteries throughout the world, from Great Britian to Asia, according to Hexham.  I then traveled to Abbey de Cluny, out of which Citeaux came when Cluny became too worldly.  Cluny itself was a reform movement, taking the power of the monasteries out of the hands of corrupt state officials and reporting only to the Pope.  The abbot eventually became second only to the Pope in power in Roman Christianity.  And then on to the birthplace of Christianity in Lyons, where the great Irenaeus once preached, and 20 of us were killed in about 200 AD in the first mention of the Christian sect in French history.  And it was with sadness that I read and then observed the many cases where wars and especially the French Revolution had completely demolished Christian sites.<br />The flaws in the book were more of the nature that I wish there had been more to the book.  For instance, I would have desired to actually visit sites of the Hugonauts and Waldensians, who seem to have the most revitalized Christianity in France since it's birth (despite certain heresies in the latter group).  But there was only mention of what cities they had been active in.  I wish there were more in this collection besides Germany, Italy, and Great Britain.  It is definitely exciting to be able to locate places of one's history in different lands.<br />But I leave the best for last.  Near Cluny I also stopped by another place, the Abbey de Taize.  I am ashamed to say I had never heard of them before I read this book, and for that, I am greatly indebted to Hexham.  Here is the only Protestant monastery since the Reformation, composed of monks from all over the world, and from the Roman and Orthodox churches as well.  They have people regularly come from around the world to visit and worship together, coming up with a new form of worship and chanting called Taize chants, now practiced in many churches worldwide, wherein the same phrase is repeated many times in many languages.  I went expecting perhaps 100 visitors.  I was not expecting 3,000 people, and 4,000 more if I had made it there a few days earlier for Easter.  Here people from the UK, America, Germany, France, New Zealand, Korea, and many other countries had come to simply worship Jesus together.  I believe some had come to do this and were not even Christian.  They gather 3 times a day, every day, to sit and chant in the various languages, lead by the monks, and beautiful hymns of praise rise to God in front of a collection of icons and candles.  Most stay a week in the very cheap room and board provided there.  Some of those who visited in the past were the President of the EU, the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Secretary-General of the UN, the Russian Orthodox Patriarch, and the Roman Pope.  I am greatly glad I took the time to purchase this rather inexpensive book before my trip.er group).  But there was only mention of what cities they had been active in.  I wish there were more in this collection besides Germany, Italy, and Great Britain.  It is definitely exciting to be able to locate places of one's history in different lands.<br />But I leave the best for last.  Near Cluny I also stopped by another place, the Abbey de Taize.  I am ashamed to say I had never heard of them before I read this book, and for that, I am greatly indebted to Hexham.  Here is the only Protestant monastery since the Reformation, composed of monks from all over the world, and from the Roman and Orthodox churches as well.  They have people regularly come from around the world to visit and worship together, coming up with a new form of worship and chanting called Taize chants, now practiced in many churches worldwide, wherein the same phrase is repeated many times in many languages.  I went expecting perhaps 100 visitors.  I was not expecting 3,000 people, and 4,000 more if I had made it there a few days earlier for Easter.  Here people from the UK, America, Germany, France, New Zealand, Korea, and many other countries had come to simply worship Jesus together.  I believe some had come to do this and were not even Christian.  They gather 3 times a day, every day, to sit and chant in the various languages, lead by the monks, and beautiful hymns of praise rise to God in front of a collection of icons and candles.  Most stay a week in the very cheap room and board provided there.  Some of those who visited in the past were the President of the EU, the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Secretary-General of the UN, the Russian Orthodox Patriarch, and the Roman Pope.  I am greatly glad I took the time to purchase this rather inexpensive book before my trip.	2001-09-20
US	51761391	R2Q5FZWVH82QXS	0924722002	786978960	Will the Real Heretics Please Stand Up: A New Look at Today's Evangelical Church in the Light of Early Christianity	Books	4	18	21	N	Y	Let's let the Saints Who Went Before speak to us.	There were parts of this book I really liked.  There were parts I didn&#8217;t.  And there were parts I didn&#8217;t like but they were really good- I just didn&#8217;t like having to rethink my ideas.<br />Growing up in a Jesus People commune, the Highway Missionaries, I am a staunch primitivist- I believe that what the early church believed, we should also.  The Bible is important primarily as a record of the beliefs of the early Church.  Bercot&#8217;s arguments therefore struck a resonating chord with me.  I appreciated Bercot&#8217;s wide use of key Patristic Fathers to demonstrate his ideas, and many of the issues he addresses are key ones for that day and ours.  He takes us through a historical understanding of the beliefs of the early Christians, why they believed what they did, and why we lost our original zeal, only to become further lost in the reformation.  Strong words which don&#8217;t seem supportable, until you read through the text.  So we see how baptism was originally a symbol of a deeper process- not just a representation, but a true symbol that takes part in that which is symbolized.  And as the church became authorized by the state, it lost it&#8217;s original purity of poverty and persecution, seeing instead the glory of God in prosperity and protection.  This only increased under Luther.  And again in the modern American church.<br />His arguments, or rather the Patristic&#8217;s arguments, for soteriology being from the action of God and humanity were very sound.  I had earlier come to believe that the salvation process of Christ was not quite the same as Paul&#8217;s.  Or rather, the common interpretation of Paul&#8217;s.  As I read what Jesus said, and looked at early church leaders, I was impressed suddenly that it is not true that we are saved by faith alone.  Nor is it true that we are saved by works.  But rather, it seemed the message of Jesus was &#8220;by change alone&#8221;- not sola fideo but sola morphe.  We must allow the old woman or man to die, and the new one to take it&#8217;s place.  This involves a whole lot of faith and a good measure of works.  Bercot does a successful job of exploring this.<br />I would wish his treatment of warfare were more expanded.  But it is beautiful to see how the early Christians tied abortion, capitol punishment, and warfare together.  They just didn&#8217;t like people dying.  ...<br />And there were aspects I wish I hadn&#8217;t read.  As a strong predestinationist, I really didn&#8217;t like reading that the early Christians supported free will.  It always feels like a bit of a death when one must give up some of one&#8217;s cherished beliefs.  I had to modify some of my thinking on this, and accept arminianism to a greater extent.  I think now that both predestination and arminianism must be true, and that God chooses to change us when we choose to change as much as we change when God so chooses.<br />But there were aspects of Bercot&#8217;s work that could have been done better, I believe.  In his section on free will, he doesn&#8217;t quote enough from Patristic authors actually discussing Romans and other key scriptural texts.  And the texts he does quote finally lead me to understand that what the early authors were arguing against was Fate- not Predestination.  Against the idea, common at the time and within Islam today, that God determined my actions, therefore I am not responsible.  They were not arguing against the idea as expressed by Paul, that despite God&#8217;s election, we are still responsible.  Those arguments were to occur later in history.  I believe here Bercot uses the Church Fathers to prove ideas that had not yet developed.<br />Likewise I find fault in those issues that I have studied in more detail.  On evolution, there were those in the early church who argued against the use of the Bible to prove scientific origin ideas, as it misused the text and made a mockery of believers.  (see St. Augustine : The Literal Meaning of Genesis, Vol. 1 (Ancient Christian Writers, No. 41)) In general, the early church did not see the importance of interpreting certain texts literally.  Indeed, the sources he cites do not actually address issues of evolution.  I know from numerous sources that the early church had a wide practice of women in leadership.  His sources he cites again do not deny this.  In fact at one point he attempts to show that Tertullian did not support women in leadership.  Yet Tertullian simply describes a heretical group (without disparagement), and Bercot then mentions the Montanists as being lead by women, yet earlier he had stated that Tertullian joined this same group!  Finally I must strongly disagree with his ideas that signs and wonders weren&#8217;t widely practiced in the primitive church.  Again, numerous sources show otherwise, especially in the first 2 centuries.  I believe this is the largest chapter missing from Bercot&#8217;s work- something heavily practiced in the first few centuries, and in the 2/3rds world church, yet hardly at all any longer in the West.<br />...<br />But I nit-pick; these disagreements are minor within the entire work.  Bercot has written a great rallying cry for the Church to return to her true roots.  It is time that we again look at those saints who went before, and let them speak to us.is, Vol. 1 (Ancient Christian Writers, No. 41)) In general, the early church did not see the importance of interpreting certain texts literally.  Indeed, the sources he cites do not actually address issues of evolution.  I know from numerous sources that the early church had a wide practice of women in leadership.  His sources he cites again do not deny this.  In fact at one point he attempts to show that Tertullian did not support women in leadership.  Yet Tertullian simply describes a heretical group (without disparagement), and Bercot then mentions the Montanists as being lead by women, yet earlier he had stated that Tertullian joined this same group!  Finally I must strongly disagree with his ideas that signs and wonders weren&#8217;t widely practiced in the primitive church.  Again, numerous sources show otherwise, especially in the first 2 centuries.  I believe this is the largest chapter missing from Bercot&#8217;s work- something heavily practiced in the first few centuries, and in the 2/3rds world church, yet hardly at all any longer in the West.<br />...<br />But I nit-pick; these disagreements are minor within the entire work.  Bercot has written a great rallying cry for the Church to return to her true roots.  It is time that we again look at those saints who went before, and let them speak to us.	2001-09-19
US	51761391	R3I6SBJ8Z9K7S2	0812566572	981105427	Marrow	Books	3	16	20	N	N	It Doesn't Really Get to the Heart of Things	This was an engrossing book with a lot of potential. I would give it 2.5 stars as it was fun to read and made me want to keep coming back throughout- there were no boring parts or places where the text dragged. There were constant changes and new unexpected developments. Particularly the final 2 pages are nothing of what I would expect. I wish I could comment on them without inserting major spoilers. Who would expect major cosmology from a simple science fiction work?<br /><br />Now the caveats. The extremely long lives of the characters, described as near eternal, makes them very difficult to relate to. I am not eternal, least this side of death, and I know very few people who are. It is surprising for all of their developments that these eternals couldn't progress more spiritually and emotionally. They remained actually at a rather infantile psychological stage throughout their hundreds of thousands of years.<br /><br />Secondly, the author's lack of thoroughness was irritating. Numerous grammatical mistakes were interspersed with plot continuity errors. I found myself a number of times suddenly totally lost as to how things had changed and come to this point, and would look back through the last few pages, only to discover there was no proper build-up to explain plot development or location. Similarly the technology, such as hyperfiber, is totally mysterious and even magical. Indeed, it is not until the near the end of the book when one finally hears a character share the nature of hyperfiber- only to be told that it has to do with quantum flux and otherwise, the characters don't understand it themselves! Most seriously, the summation is sudden and contrived. After so many pages of build up, everything comes together finally in a way that makes one wonder why it couldn't have come together that way all along. Even the metaphysical underpinnings of the entire ship, though very interesting and ingenious, are introduced simply as supposition which is then accepted as fact, without any explanation as to how the characters came up with these realizations. It reminded me of Star Trek Original Series episodes when Spock would offer a possible hypothesis, and then everyone would immediately assume that this hypothesis was in fact Truth.<br /><br />All this said, I would still recommend reading it- I was unable to put it down. Fun, pulp, fiction. But not anything to turn the world upside down with.t any explanation as to how the characters came up with these realizations. It reminded me of Star Trek Original Series episodes when Spock would offer a possible hypothesis, and then everyone would immediately assume that this hypothesis was in fact Truth.     All this said, I would still recommend reading it- I was unable to put it down. Fun, pulp, fiction. But not anything to turn the world upside down with.	2001-09-10
US	51761391	R18S0XIQM6RL78	0800790715	201323540	I Dared to Call Him Father: The True Story of a Woman's Encounter with God	Books	5	80	81	N	Y	I Want to Be Like Her	The thing I hated about this book was that I was reading it inbetween breaks at work, and sometimes I had to put it down. It was gripping throughout, and though the writing might not be that of Chaucer or Dickins I give it 5 stars because it was so inspirational and encouraging. I want to be like her! &quot;I Dared&quot; describes the process of a Pakistani noble woman coming to a belief in Jesus as Lord, through dreams and reading the Bible on her own- though there is continual Christian community around her and involved with her. She describes aspects of Islam positively, such as the call of the mu'ezzein from the minarets, which she found comforting, as do I. But she also describes times when Islamic belief and Pakistani culture serve to hurt. She doesn't do this negatively, but simply mentions the facts that happened to her.<br /><br /> I was impressed, deeply, at how she was willing to be lead by God towards whatever He wanted. And not like she was a saint- she shares a process of learning to give up her rights in favor of God's. Particularly moving was the segment where she realizes the necessity of forgiving even her former husband, and how she goes from a place of, &quot;No, I can't do that at all God.&quot; to &quot;Yes, and if he came to my house today I would welcome him.&quot; I also enjoyed her detailing of the process by which she learned to hear God's voice. She wasn't hung up on a lot of regulations that had built up over the centuries in Christendom about what to do or not to do, how to be baptized or receive the Spirit, how you listen and what you must do or not do to avoid certain practices- she just listened and tried to obey. And at the times when she didn't obey, she relates with complete honesty how she learned through that.<br /><br /> I think this is the most stunning part of the book- the complete honesty. She doesn't try to make herself better or more important, as certain bios of great Christians in America might do. She just related what God had done, in taking a broken jar and remolding it. Her openness opens up the world of the Spirit., in taking a broken jar and remolding it. Her openness opens up the world of the Spirit.	2001-09-10
US	51761391	R2LKONZMYBK2H3	0310205522	511416294	Dream Thief	Books	5	31	35	N	Y	Inspiring SciFi- Who Would Have Thought?	Wow!  This was a *great* book.  I don't exaggerate when I say this is the best Christian Sci-Fi I have ever read.  I enjoy Lewis' Space Trilogy very much, perhaps more than Dream Thief, but, while the Space Trilogy is technically Sci-Fi, Lewis' writing style and his understanding of science, even for when he wrote it, makes Lewis' works read more like Fantasy.  Lawhead is the first Christian author I have ever read who has a believable future- true science fiction.  Though I've read only four of Lawhead's works so far, I far prefer his Sci-Fi to his Fantasy.<br />It is great to see that we (Christians) still exist in the future.  In every other book I have ever read, and I have read a lot of science fiction, the Christians are not ever mentioned, as if a plague came and wiped all of us out sometime in the late 21st century. Religion in Sci-Fi is given short shrift in general, but, if mentioned, it seems to usually be anything but monotheistic.<br />This isn't a Christian dogma book, where everything is allegorical- Christians, and God, are simply an integral part of the storyline, and there is a Christian worldview behind it.  Yet there are many non-Christians who play important roles as well, including a number of the key protagonists and heroes.  A non-Christian should not feel intimidated in picking up this book- it is a very good read.  The story line catches you, moves quickly, and it's almost as if you're out of breath waiting for the next event.  Though the one disappointment I had was sometimes it felt like sections of action were skipped and only referred to after the fact, I stayed up a couple nights till 2 or 3 in the morning till my eyes could no longer focus and my brain kept rereading the same paragraph.<br />And Lawhead doesn't even go for easy answers with his Christians.  They aren't conservative/fundamentalist, as Christians are commonly portrayed as all being, but clear and logical thinkers.  Christianity isn't presented as a Western religion, which is accurate, as it has not been in numbers since the 70's, now that most Christians are in the 2/3rds world, and if the Nestorians are included, it was primarily an Asian religion until 1000 AD.  Indeed, the primary Christian in the book is from the largest Baptist state in the world, Nagaland, India.  Christianity also isn't shown as just a moral belief with an idea of some great deity we can pray to, but with an excluded middle.  This is a God who can and does work miracles- amazing, believable ones- just as He does in real life.<br />Would that this were a genre, rather than, as it would seem, the only book of it's kind out there.  The biographical conversion story is an old, valuable format in Christian literature.  Here now it has been merged with science fiction in an engrossing and believable way.  And in an inspiring way.  Too often when I read science fiction I come away with a sense of hopelessness.  Often the underlying worldview of the author, seeping through the pages of his or her work, is one without hope, in the sense of expectant joy about the future.  This was not the case in Dream Thief.  The reader gains a strong understanding that God is working all things together for the good of those who love Him.  One identifies with the main character feeling a number of times that all is lost, and the situation too dire to be saved.  But when looking back throughout the experience, retrospectively God's hand can not be ignored.  I could easily recommend this to friends to read so that they might draw closer to truly understanding and being one with God.ch is accurate, as it has not been in numbers since the 70's, now that most Christians are in the 2/3rds world, and if the Nestorians are included, it was primarily an Asian religion until 1000 AD.  Indeed, the primary Christian in the book is from the largest Baptist state in the world, Nagaland, India.  Christianity also isn't shown as just a moral belief with an idea of some great deity we can pray to, but with an excluded middle.  This is a God who can and does work miracles- amazing, believable ones- just as He does in real life.<br />Would that this were a genre, rather than, as it would seem, the only book of it's kind out there.  The biographical conversion story is an old, valuable format in Christian literature.  Here now it has been merged with science fiction in an engrossing and believable way.  And in an inspiring way.  Too often when I read science fiction I come away with a sense of hopelessness.  Often the underlying worldview of the author, seeping through the pages of his or her work, is one without hope, in the sense of expectant joy about the future.  This was not the case in Dream Thief.  The reader gains a strong understanding that God is working all things together for the good of those who love Him.  One identifies with the main character feeling a number of times that all is lost, and the situation too dire to be saved.  But when looking back throughout the experience, retrospectively God's hand can not be ignored.  I could easily recommend this to friends to read so that they might draw closer to truly understanding and being one with God.	2001-07-09
US	51761391	R1HWCMM4C8XNWK	0802860613	103995848	Lilith	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Great Myth	Lewis was right when he described MacDonald as not a great writer, but perhaps the best myth-maker he had ever read. There are places where MacDonald could have used a good editor, sections that are unclear that could be made so, or where the feel is disjointed. However, there are other sections where the lack of clarity is simply because of the great depth, as one looks down into a storm-tossed pool extending into the Marianas'. Images and lines of Lilith stay with you and ruminate in your mind, such as individuals lying down on the cold slabs of Mr. Raven's house, the delightful children feeding the gentle giant, or the phrase, &quot;When a man will not act where he is, he must go far to find his work.&quot;<br /><br /> A couple further caveats: MacDonald's belief in universal salvation is clearly demonstrated, and his argument that the only way Good can truly be greater than Evil is if all Evil will one day succumb to Good by becoming Good has a certain, if incomplete persuasion. It was also surprising to see MacDonald making use of ancient Gnostic/Jewish heresies such as Lilith, the first wife of Adam.<br /><br /> I highly recommend the book however for it's depth of imagery, for the ideas that can extend into one's mind and bring forth something new, as we give up the old ones. MacDonald's layers and repetitions hearken to something Biblical, or Joycian. In death there is life.	2001-06-13
US	51761391	R2CL8VHN9PVF7J	0060175931	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search for Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Good Theory of Divine Evolution; Lacking a Clear Mechanism	It is a pleasure to read an author who clearly presents the supports for evolution, but from the perspective of one deeply committed to God. He shows that one can understand evolution without rejecting her belief in God. Unfortunately, his theological erudition of how God is entwined with His creation does not meet all hopes.<br /><br /> Miller begins with a description of the basics and proofs of evolution, along with a very helpful example of how we can scientifically understand something even though we can not observe it directly, such as solar mechanics.<br /><br /> He then addresses the three primary arguments presented as alternatives to evolution. The Institute of Creation Research, those that believe that all things were created at one time only thousands of years ago, ultimately fail for not understanding basic principles of science. But more tragically, they misunderstand basic principles of God. For in their worldview, God would have had to create everything with the appearance of age, give some of his creatures the ability to comprehend the world enough to see that it *looked* old, and then everything else in the universe follows standard logical paradigms. God, for ICR, is a liar.<br /><br /> Those like Johnson seek to maintain a continuous creation throughout time. If this were so, however, it is certainly odd, because evidently God has been creating every few years new species &quot;out of thin air&quot;, but stopped well short of the historical period, as there is no historical record of an animal or plant appearing in a flash of light. Johnson also misapplies truth. As a lawyer he operates from his understanding- something in the law room is &quot;proven beyond a reasonable doubt&quot;, and one is &quot;innocent until proven guilty&quot;. Science, however, operates with the premise of &quot;True until proven false.&quot; It has the inherent preconception that all things will one day be proven false. We understand from the progression of Newtonian to Einsteinian to Quantum mechanics that this doesn't necessarily mean throwing all the old ideas out. Indeed, much like Christ, it is not abolishing the law, but fulfilling it. But the courtroom and science operate under different concepts of truth (and incidentally, both separate from theological truth). Both are valid in their own sphere. Anything we believe today could be disproven tomorrow with a good, repeatable experiment. But Johnson would have done far better had he realized which side of the court he was on. He feels that he needed to simply raise reasonable doubts about evolution, without presenting a fair alternative. But evolution has a weight of evidence. It is the status quo. It, not Johnson, is the defense, which must be proven guilty. Reasonable doubts raised are not enough.<br /><br /> Lastly, Miller addresses the arguments of Behe, who would say that all evolved, but not the cell and structures like it, for it is simply too complex. Miller shows many convincing examples of how irreducibly complex systems actually are reducible, and can have evolved concurrently and symbiotically.<br /><br /> I appreciate that Miller then shows where the fierce anti-religious stance of biologists (in general) are also to blame for enflaming the arguments. As Gould pointed out in Rock of Ages, they have violated the principle of Non-Overlapping Magesterium, invading the realm of religion and philosophy and claiming that science has a right, and an ability, to address these concerns. It has neither. But the attitude that it does has turned off many of those who might have otherwise accepted, or even welcomed, evolution.<br /><br /> Miller then enters more shaky theological ground. Some of his points *are* helpful. I personally found the highlight of the book to be the turn-around argument, always the best kind, in showing how the creationists are deists. Everyone today accepts that God works in certain patterns in nature and life. We call this science. At the same timeChristians believe that God is active in this present time, and all times. He is working through the principles we see today. But creationists state that he did not do so in the past, hence the &quot;ex nihilo&quot; need of creationism. Therefore God is working differently now than he did previously; He no longer creates; His actions are now less direct than they once were, in regards to the ability to create. He is then a removed God; a Deist God.<br /><br /> But the theological arguments for God's action, or lack thereof, are not convincing. Miller argues we can find free will within the inherent uncertainty of quantum mechanics. For not even God knows both the location and velocity of an electron, or what direction an electron will move next, as these are inherently unknowable. And subatomic actions have an effect on macroscopic reality. But for Miller, this is beautiful, as it allows for the presence of the free-will of man, within the quantum realm.<br /><br /> Unfortunately, this theory does not fully provide the needed answers. Firstly, Miller ignores certain aspects of God's character that would allow Him to determine even what happens at the quantum level. God created all things (through whatever means). This includes the rules of chance and statistics, which electrons subscribe to, the very foundations of our universe. God is also outside of time. So while an event may take place, and the electron may move to the left, and we will not know it does so till afterward, God, being outside of time, will know it has done so before hand. He can know all things. And through the laws of chance which he created, He can direct all things.<br /><br /> In the end, Miller's analysis works very well for an arminianist, which in their hearts most Christian Americans may be, but it does not work well for those who follow Augustinian predestination. Which of course would include, at least theologically, the whole of the Roman Church. Miller is trying to demonstrate that God has allowed for free will in his creatures, but he has based that on a theological supposition that free will actually exists. That is not the reality for many Christians. And, since he uses the Islamic example as well, this is not the reality for most Muslims, with the exception of the 7th century Kharijites, now considered heretics.<br /><br /> But the largest problem with the interposition of free will within quantum mechanics is that it is simply not actually free will. Humanity has no control over the quantum world, even less so than God. It is chance. That quantum fluctuations occur outside of the realm of God's omnipotence does not mean then that humanity has free will. It only means that God has less power, and humans are stuck in the same place, wherever that was. And then, like the Greeks, the Creator God has created another god, greater than He, called chance. For that which is outside the realm of God becomes a God unto itself. History is filled with successive polytheistic dynasties. And it would seem the ultimate conclusion of Miller's arguments is another such schema.this present time, and all times. He is working through the principles we see today. But creationists state that he did not do so in the past, hence the &quot;ex nihilo&quot; need of creationism. Therefore God is working differently now than he did previously; He no longer creates; His actions are now less direct than they once were, in regards to the ability to create. He is then a removed God; a Deist God.      But the theological arguments for God's action, or lack thereof, are not convincing. Miller argues we can find free will within the inherent uncertainty of quantum mechanics. For not even God knows both the location and velocity of an electron, or what direction an electron will move next, as these are inherently unknowable. And subatomic actions have an effect on macroscopic reality. But for Miller, this is beautiful, as it allows for the presence of the free-will of man, within the quantum realm.      Unfortunately, this theory does not fully provide the needed answers. Firstly, Miller ignores certain aspects of God's character that would allow Him to determine even what happens at the quantum level. God created all things (through whatever means). This includes the rules of chance and statistics, which electrons subscribe to, the very foundations of our universe. God is also outside of time. So while an event may take place, and the electron may move to the left, and we will not know it does so till afterward, God, being outside of time, will know it has done so before hand. He can know all things. And through the laws of chance which he created, He can direct all things.       In the end, Miller's analysis works very well for an arminianist, which in their hearts most Christian Americans may be, but it does not work well for those who follow Augustinian predestination. Which of course would include, at least theologically, the whole of the Roman Church. Miller is trying to demonstrate that God has allowed for free will in his creatures, but he has basedthat on a theological supposition that free will actually exists. That is not the reality for many Christians. And, since he uses the Islamic example as well, this is not the reality for most Muslims, with the exception of the 7th century Kharijites, now considered heretics.       But the largest problem with the interposition of free will within quantum mechanics is that it is simply not actually free will. Humanity has no control over the quantum world, even less so than God. It is chance. That quantum fluctuations occur outside of the realm of God's omnipotence does not mean then that humanity has free will. It only means that God has less power, and humans are stuck in the same place, wherever that was. And then, like the Greeks, the Creator God has created another god, greater than He, called chance. For that which is outside the realm of God becomes a God unto itself. History is filled with successive polytheistic dynasties. And it would seem the ultimate conclusion of Miller's arguments is another such schema.	2001-06-13
US	51761391	R2GOEGRB5KHRGB	0440227704	598774312	Many Waters (The Time Quartet)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Imaginative but Unfulfilling	This work was certainly engaging, and one that I found difficult to put down once begun. I love L'Engle's imagination, and she creates a very believable antiluvian world. While this side of eternity we may never know what the Nephilim, sons of God, and daughters of man are, L'Engle's suggestions are convincing. It was almost a new breed of historical fiction, perhaps better titled mythical fiction. She created a world and characters that one can accept, while remaining very true to the text (unlike other works such as The Red Tent). It is alternative history, or alternative myth, at it's most inventive.<br /><br /> Yet it was ultimately unfulfilling. I was left uncertain as to the point of the story, and why Dennys and Sandy had traveled to the past. L'Engle created a great world, but then it seems like so much more could have happened there. This would have been a much better book with a &quot;Part II&quot; attached, where the real action begins after the groundwork is laid. Similarly, the ending occurs so quickly that the reader hardly has time to realize the book is over.<br /><br /> Additionally, surprisingly, this book does not seem suitable to children, due to a few descriptions of women's exposed breasts. But I would still recommend it as a light enjoyment for older readers.	2001-06-03
US	51761391	R9D7ZKFGAFT4Z	0385005695	415209907	Song of Songs: A New Translation with Introduction and Commentary	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A Mission of Gender Reconciliation	After reading this text I came to the conclusion that Song of Songs is *the* most missiological book in the Old Testament. Pope translates the text directly, free of the normal curtailing of language that occurs in English translations in order to protect pseudo-Puritan American sensibilities. As such it is a much more moving, poetic, and graphic collection of poems. \\"My lover thrust his \\"hand\\" through the \\"hole\\", and my inwards seethed for him.\\" The description of part of the man is not \\"slabs of ivory\\", but \\"an ivory tusk\\". In this focus on being more true to the original text Pope reveals some key aspects of the Hebrew mindset which we could all learn from. Far from the traditional Christian perspective of these latter days of downplaying sexuality, of thinking it as somehow unclean though never saying so outright, God's desire is for us to revel in it and celebrate it. He created us as holistic beings, the only true amphibians, being both spiritual and physical, and thus capable of enjoying what he created to a much greater degree. The author of Song of Songs revealed years before contemporary psychology that sexuality is an integral part of eros love, not to be denied, but celebrated.<br /><br /> Throughout the translation one also gets the distinct impression of the empowerment of the woman. While this is certainly present in other translations, it comes through all the more clearly in Pope.<br /><br />\\"Our sister is young<br />And breasts she has none.<br />What will we do for our sister<br />On the day she is bespoken?<br />If she be a wall,<br />We will build on her a silver buttress.<br />If she be a door,<br />We will close her with a cedar board.\\"<br /><br />\\"I am a wall,And my breasts are like towers.<br />Thus have I become in his eyes<br />As one producing peace.\\"<br /><br />While the woman's brothers would seek to constrain and control her, she speaks out and states that she has the control, turning the wall metaphor on it's head. While they would belittle her physical manifestations of womanhood, she proclaims to all the world that she is all woman, and beautiful, betraying a clear confidence in herself and her body.<br /><br />Repeatedly the man and woman within these poems show their care for each other- not just for their bodies, and not just for their souls, but for the entire being, as one. In Pope one sees clearly here an image, a foretaste, of true gender reconciliation, as existed once before the fall, and was not to be fully realized until Christ came and sat down at a well in the desert. The both encourage each other to grow, and love each other fully as beautiful in entirety. Since Song of Songs is a collection of poems, it tells not a story so much of what is, but like all great poetry, of what might be. It does not seem to describe the reality of gender interaction at the time it was written, but what was yearned for, for what might be. This it does beautifully, such that one thirsts for this reality as one reads it. And I believe this is what makes it missiological- it preaches a reality that one day could be, will be, should be, though the author can have no awareness at that time of what Jesus will come to offer.<br /><br />One would wish that Pope's translation was available without the commentary, that it would be read more often by the layman who might be stymied by the length of the work. But the commentary is indeed excellent as well. After the translation, Pope goes on to present alternative scenarios for understanding Song of Songs, and then an exhaustive and impressive line by line analysis of the entire book. His analysis adds greatly to a thorough appreciation of this inspired work.ms to all the world that she is all woman, and beautiful, betraying a clear confidence in herself and her body.      Repeatedly the man and woman within these poems show their care for each other- not just for their bodies, and not just for their souls, but for the entire being, as one. In Pope one sees clearly here an image, a foretaste, of true gender reconciliation, as existed once before the fall, and was not to be fully realized until Christ came and sat down at a well in the desert. The both encourage each other to grow, and love each other fully as beautiful in entirety. Since Song of Songs is a collection of poems, it tells not a story so much of what is, but like all great poetry, of what might be. It does not seem to describe the reality of gender interaction at the time it was written, but what was yearned for, for what might be. This it does beautifully, such that one thirsts for this reality as one reads it. And I believe this is what makes it missiological- it preaches a reality that one day could be, will be, should be, though the author can have no awareness at that time of what Jesus will come to offer.      One would wish that Pope's translation was available without the commentary, that it would be read more often by the layman who might be stymied by the length of the work. But the commentary is indeed excellent as well. After the translation, Pope goes on to present alternative scenarios for understanding Song of Songs, and then an exhaustive and impressive line by line analysis of the entire book. His analysis adds greatly to a thorough appreciation of this inspired work.	2001-05-29
US	51761391	R1TTLAB8JAJBCC	1576730360	129268418	I Kissed Dating Goodbye: A New Attitude Toward Relationships and Romance	Books	1	38	57	N	N	It's not fighting the good fight	It was with great sadness that I read this book. Such potential, so thwarted. When Christ comes to bring freedom to us, Josh Harris writes of walls and barriers.<br /><br />He writes from a style that seems to indicate a lack of experience in this area. And experience is exactly what is needed to be proficient in this kind of work. The experience of failure, the angst of gender inter-relationship- this is missing in Harris' work and understanding. It is only through risk that we can experience growth, and throughout Harris' work one gets the idea that he is attempting to remove all possibility of risk, and so therefore all possibility of failure. It seems to be written from a perspective of fear.<br /><br />Harris also uses poor exegesis in order to understand scriptural dynamics. He applies the situations of the cultural context of the many Biblical cultures straight to the modern western culture, with no attempt to contextualize in between. He jumps from observations of the text to application, without the all important step of interpreting the author's intent. Perhaps as a result he ends up with a very legalistic approach to gender relationships, in which dating is simply \\"off-limits\\". Were this true, life would certainly be more simple, easier, and safer. But that is not what life is about. It requires complex responses.<br /><br />It is definitely commendable to advocate friendship with the opposite gender. This needs to go on much more than it does now. And indeed, part of Christ's call of the gospel was the reconciliation of the genders, as evidenced in the Samaritan Woman. But Harris' removal of dating as an option in fact further divides the genders. He would restrict most interactions to group contexts, not allowing for the development of a close relationship, even be it platonic. We must remember that Christ's interaction with the Samaritan Woman was individual, not with a group, and his disciples were surprised not that he was talking with a Samaritan, but rather that he was talking with a woman. Certainly Christ was not attempting to date the woman, but it was perceived as such by those within that culture, because it was an intimate, private moment. Such moments, the bedrock of relationships, would be denied in Harris' worldview.<br /><br />But even the lack of opportunity for development of a romantic relationship through dating flies in the face of God's best. In Josh's canon, one gets the impression there would be no [[ASIN:0385005695 Song of Songs]], or major parts of Ruth. (Feet were often a euphemism in Hebrew literature for another body part.)<br /><br />Harris seems to take one cut and apply it to all Christians. Such can not be done. It might be necessary for some- whom am I to judge another man? This book could even be very beneficial to younger folks in their pre-20's, who feel pressured too much. There *is* way too much focus on the physical in Western relationships. Would that Harris had attempted to apply it only to those types. For a book that does approach the dating relationship from a more general perspective, I would recommend Lewis Smedes' [[ASIN:0802807437 Sex for Christians]], which, despite the title, has much to offer for the unmarried and non-sexually active as well. Smedes writes from a perspective of the freedom that Christ has to offer us, while we maintain moral boundaries, but boundaries that apply in different ways to different people, as Christ works with all our differences.was talking with a woman. Certainly Christ was not attempting to date the woman, but it was perceived as such by those within that culture, because it was an intimate, private moment. Such moments, the bedrock of relationships, would be denied in Harris' worldview.      But even the lack of opportunity for development of a romantic relationship through dating flies in the face of God's best. In Josh's canon, one gets the impression there would be no [[ASIN:0385005695 Song of Songs]], or major parts of Ruth. (Feet were often a euphemism in Hebrew literature for another body part.)      Harris seems to take one cut and apply it to all Christians. Such can not be done. It might be necessary for some- whom am I to judge another man? This book could even be very beneficial to younger folks in their pre-20's, who feel pressured too much. There *is* way too much focus on the physical in Western relationships. Would that Harris had attempted to apply it only to those types. For a book that does approach the dating relationship from a more general perspective, I would recommend Lewis Smedes' [[ASIN:0802807437 Sex for Christians]], which, despite the title, has much to offer for the unmarried and non-sexually active as well. Smedes writes from a perspective of the freedom that Christ has to offer us, while we maintain moral boundaries, but boundaries that apply in different ways to different people, as Christ works with all our differences.	2001-05-24
US	51761391	R26K8WG5XXHW0K	0060610638	169083754	What Paul Really Said About Women: The Apostle's Liberating Views on Equality in Marriage, Leadership, and Love	Books	5	192	205	N	N	Paul is more liberal than the Feminist Movement	One of the negative aspects of my culture, the Jesus Movement, was it's treatment of women. I took in these ideas, and looking through the scriptures, came to the only conclusion one could from the text in front of us: women should obey their husbands, and should not lead or teach over men. At least, coming from the background I do believing that one should follow the scriptures.<br /><br /> I then joined up with InterVarsity at Occidental College, at the time, one of only two IV chapters in the US with it's staff headed by a woman. Now suddenly I had to deal with these issues- there really wasn't another option for a strong Christian group on our small campus. Was it OK for me to attend these services? What if I listened and didn't apply what the pastor said? Well, of course, much of what she said was good and helpful. Perhaps it was OK to listen, but it was not me sinning, but her? After all, God speaks through non-believers- how much more could he instruct me through a woman?<br /><br /> I wanted to believe that women could teach and lead just as easily as men, at the same level as men; that they were more than just &quot;spiritually equal&quot;; that they didn't have to obey their husbands. It all sounded really nice. But unfortunately, it was not what the Bible said- and we can't simply follow truths we would like and ignore parts of the Bible we don't like.<br /><br /> Then I came across this book. I have not personally had a conversion experience, having grown up in the church, coming to Christ more in a Markian manner than Johanian. But this book initiated my conversion experience, at least as in regards to issues of women. At the time, cultural arguments had little weight with me- after all, how could we have any degree of certainty as to what the original culture was like? Even if so, how could we know that the same issues in that original culture, and subsequent directives, did not also apply to us?<br /><br /> Bristow lays out his argument looking at the original Greek, which was exactly what I needed to hear. And I think what a lot of other people in my situation need to hear. Sure, he also puts out cultural reasons as to why Paul said what he did, in different ways, to the churches in Corinth, Ephesus, et. al. But he also shows quite convincingly and clearly how in the original Greek Paul was actually arguing for something more liberal than the liberal feminist movement of today, but his words got radically misinterpreted through the misogynist eyes of the early Church Fathers. This is not to detract from those Fathers or impute to them some sort of overt attempt at distortion- they were people of their time, and read what they read through the lenses of everything they knew- they could not do otherwise.<br /><br /> But Bristow shows how Paul was freed by the Holy Spirit to see something greater than that which he grew up with. The Feminist Movement comes up short- it argues only for freedom for women. A good thing, but a sadly pitiful thing in comparison to what could be. For Paul advocates that men and women should be in *mutual* submission to each other, mutually loving and giving up their lives to each other. When one thinks about it, kind of makes sense, with the example that Christ already laid out.<br /><br /> Bristow goes further to demonstrate how, with all these other women running around in leadership mentioned in Acts and at the end of Romans and other Pauline letters, whom Paul clearly supports, it would be quite incongruous for Paul to then advocate that women should not be in leadership. And when there is no clear directive for a woman to obey in all of the Old Testament, why then does Paul suddenly advocate a greater restriction under Christ- this, from the great preacher of Freedom under Christ. Bristow answers this by looking at the culture and the Greek text, to demonstrate that, in fact, Paul does *not* advocate greater restrictions for women, or that they should not be in leadership. Rather,he calls for the opposite approach, and emancipation for women.<br /><br /> The one caveat I would have in regards to this book would be credentials- I would love to know what Bristow's background and credentials are, and they are listed nowhere in the book.<br /><br /> After reading this book, I came to understand that, while women are trapped in a sphere of influence under traditional interpretations of women's roles, so are men. I had been trapped into a belief that I had to be in authority in regards to women, and that I could not learn from them. And that sphere, while appearing to be freedom, is just as tight. This book was the first step in leading me to a heart's desire that men and women, brothers and sisters, might know the true gender reconciliation that Christ has to offer through redemption, and not revocation, of the curse.and emancipation for women.       The one caveat I would have in regards to this book would be credentials- I would love to know what Bristow's background and credentials are, and they are listed nowhere in the book.       After reading this book, I came to understand that, while women are trapped in a sphere of influence under traditional interpretations of women's roles, so are men. I had been trapped into a belief that I had to be in authority in regards to women, and that I could not learn from them. And that sphere, while appearing to be freedom, is just as tight. This book was the first step in leading me to a heart's desire that men and women, brothers and sisters, might know the true gender reconciliation that Christ has to offer through redemption, and not revocation, of the curse.	2001-03-11
US	51761391	R3IDMG52F6LKZR	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	I gotta admit, it's gettin better...	As most agree, Jordan has taken a dip in quality in his series. I feel the first five books were great in character development and action, but subsequently his work has not been up to snuff. This book appears to be an upswing.<br /><br />Jordan's writing was near the level of C.S. Lewis, Tolkien, and George MacDonald, but the series *has* truly dragged on much longer than need be. Jordan also appears to have difficulty with character continuity errors- the descriptions of characters presented earlier on do not always line up with future descriptions. One could argue that this is merely character development, but often no development is presented- a character is one way, and then slightly another, without explanation.<br /><br />This is particularly true in respect to how much power a character has, and how much self-respect they have. Characters that are presented with initially strong character, such as Aes Sedai or Nynaeve, we later find with little self-respect, but with no explanation as to how this might have developed.<br /><br />It is sad too that a world is presented where there appears to be so little altruism and desire to help others. Oh, certainly, people help each other, and one could say that you can't get much more altruistic than Rand being willing to die at Tarmon Geddon to save the world, but you get little hint of his care or compassion in this act. Or from anyone else- everyone appears to be looking for power over others in some way, and pursuing that goal at all costs. While that is generally true of humanity, perhaps, it would be nice to have some foil within the text to show true goodness and love. Far too often the reader is left wondering what really is the difference between the good side and the bad side, other one fights to save humanity from the Dark One, and the other fights for the Dark One. But both sides, in a pinch, appear to be comfortable with many of the same methods.<br /><br />This style of writing continues through Winter's Heart, but the dragging ends to some extent, and we get some real action accomplished. Read through to the end of the work and you'll be pleasantly surprised at the forward motion. More of the questions regarding the two ethnicities to the East and the West of the main people group are answered, and Jordan appears to get closer to his more gripping style present in the first 5 novels.to some extent, and we get some real action accomplished. Read through to the end of the work and you'll be pleasantly surprised at the forward motion. More of the questions regarding the two ethnicities to the East and the West of the main people group are answered, and Jordan appears to get closer to his more gripping style present in the first 5 novels.	2001-03-07
US	51761391	R17ACR9N18WPZO	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Captivating	A very engrossing storyline, with well-developed characters. He has set up a very believable world, and unlike some in the fantasy genre, has set up believable people as well. They don't have adventure for it's own sake, but react as an ordinary person would when put in extraordinary circumstances. The reader is pulled into Jordan's world, and, at those rare moments you have to put the book down because you are forced to by life, it is very easy to continue to believe that there are trollocs, myrandraal, and aes sedai.<br /><br /> Jordan seems to do the difficult dance of having an absolute good and evil present, yet having humans that are a mixture of the two, with none completely good or evil. Few writers have been able to maintain this balance (Lewis, Tolkien, and being among them.) The reader knows that everything is not &quot;relative&quot; in Jordan's world- but it is an enjoyable search to understand what is the representation of true good and true evil as Jordan develops it. Evil is personified in shai'tan. I would hope that in future books Jordan develops the personification of good which is only obliquely referenced in the Creator in the first work.<br /><br /> There are some mild flaws: Jordan could have used a better editor, as there are occasional instances when the grammar is off or a sentence seems to end in the middle of a. But this is rare and does not detract from the over-all enjoyment. The book starts out quite slow as well in the first five chapters, and I found it helpful to skim those more before excitement really started to happen. As I heard detailed descriptions of village life I was hoping that this would not be typical of the entire work. I was not disappointed. Of course, considering that this is an 800 page book, 5 chapters is not as large a section as it would be in most books.	2001-01-16
US	51761391	R2N1I3B1NZQ5KA	0553573527	504179075	Empire of the Ants	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Imaginative, but Wanting	Light reading, certainly imaginative, but it could have been better. The author provides novel ideas in regards to ant-human communication, but the English translation is awful. There are numerous mistakes in the text, and the book could have used an editor excising needless passages. Human characters are not well developed, though the ants are interesting. When Werber heads towards dialogue, the story invariably goes downhill- he writes action and narrative much better. Conversations feel flat and unstimulating, and I tended to skim through them in order to get to the storyline itself. Again, ant-talk via chemicals was much more interesting than the human talk.<br /><br />The scientific presumptions of the text are also an issue. Werber presents the work as if it had some scientific basis, as if it was scifi rather than fantasy. This is bolstered by his exacting and broad description of ant life and anatomy. It is unfortunate that the scientific slant is presented, as there is absolutely no scientific credulity within the concept of communication from creatures which don't even possess a brain. Much less communication between two different species.<br /><br />Werber does takes the best of science fiction when he takes certain concepts and expands on them. His descriptions of ant anatomy are fairly accurate, and the description of ant life a nice fantastical extension of scientific principals- if they could think, how would they then live? It would have been far better though if some sort of deus ex machina had been present to explain their intelligence. The reader is forced to have to create presumptions that Werber never truly explains in order to make sense of the work.<br /><br />With these caveats, it is still a recommended book, if you don't have to pay too much for it (which you don't on Amazon). It is fun to read through much of it, if with a critical eye, and can provide a relaxing afternoon by the fire.	2001-01-10
US	51761391	R1FEY0JXM153IR	084075289X	748041895	Jonah and the Worm	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Deep, and Fun	There aren't enough books out there that teach children deeper theological truths. There aren't enough books that teach adults deeper theological truths and are a fun read. This book does both. My seminary professor would refer to this as the best book on missiology he had ever seen, and it was one of his required readings. It's great for 10 yr.-olds to read on their own, or for reading a chapter a night to younger children.<br /><br /> The illustrations are well-done and engage kids, without distracting from the text itself. Too often books for kids that talk of the Bible will only deal with the same hacked-out stories of Abraham, Joseph, Moses, Joshua, David, Jesus, et. al. These are good stories, but the same ones appear to be continuously recycled, with little discussion of others present, or other truths in the old stories. If they hear about the Bible, children often grow up with certain ideas weeded out, that they &quot;aren't ready to handle&quot;. Some parts of the Bible evidently need to be censored or in some way kids should not hear of truth. Missions is a large area that is not significantly covered for kids. Briscoe takes the idea of what might have been going on with the worm that appears in Ch. 4 of the book of Jonah. After all, God directs all things, does He not? If so, then what was he doing with that worm...	2001-01-08
US	51761391	R2H9GD8B2QTL6I	0931876133	871448377	Guide to the Coastal Marine Fishes of Californa #4065	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Comprehensive, Accurate, Helpful	An essential guidebook for California marine studies, covering immediate coastal-littoral to coastal deep-water Isaac's Kid level fishes. While working on a research ship in SoCal we constantly referred to this text- it's inexpensive, so there is little concern from salt-water damage; yet it is also highly accurate and systematic in it's coverage of marine fishes. Though the lack of color can hinder identification on occasion, the key identification features make up for any confusion. The text follows a scientific dichotomous key which allows for identification and comparison of closely-related fishes- helpful when trying to identify just what species you might be holding at the moment- and if it might be poisonous or not. Extremely useful for those of a scientific bent, with its use of terminology and scientific nomenclature, it is also usable by the layman because of the intricate drawings and clear, concise information.	2000-12-22
US	51761391	R1RCGMOC9SX67U	0198810784	691768150	Muhammad: Prophet and Statesman (Galaxy Book, 409)	Books	5	44	56	N	N	*The* Portrait of Muhammad	If you're looking to gain an understanding of the life of Muhammad, grab this book.  Watt presents a prose description of Muhammad's life, backed by sound, comprehensive study.  It is actually enjoyable reading, almost like a story, yet completely historically accurate.  (Or as much as we can be.)  Watt does not make either extreme mistake of simply accepting the traditions of the Hadith or the Qur'an as absolute truth; or of looking only at Western denigrations of Islam.  Rather, he appears to recognize historical truths in the Qur'anic traditions, and in Western and Eastern scholarship.  If you've been trying to learn about Islam and have spent time looking over the Qur'an, this is *the* book to turn to get that background on Muhammad and \\"flesh\\" him out.  Watt shows a human, beyond the traditions and myths, that changed his world, and then the rest of the planet.	2000-12-22
US	51761391	R1ROPK8J5WVRQ9	0814326757	386844197	Without Forgetting the Imam: Lebanese Shi’ism in an American Community	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent portrayal of the Arab-American Dearborn community	One of the best books I have read on Arab-Americans, it has been singularly helpful for myself personally. Walbridge writes from her extensive experience and study in the Lebanese population in Dearborn, MI, home of the largest concentration of Arabs in the world, outside the Middle East. I read this book shortly before moving to Dearborn, and it helped me understand the community I was moving into and adapt to it much quicker. She was able to make many inroads into the neighborhoods, as a woman in a semi-closed society, and as a Western woman interacting with Imams and men. She goes into detail on the history and development of the various Muslim denominations, and shares details on the minutiae of the culture that those in other places in Michigan, including West Dearborn, would be otherwise completely unaware of. Examples of excellent research- scholarly and ethnographic- include stories on the wedding/engagement traditions and the Shi'i tradition of muta'a. Her use of Arabic words throughout (defined initially) is particularly helpful.<br /><br />For those who do not live in Dearborn, this is still an excellent study/ethnography on the situation of Arabs in America in general. It will give great insights for those studying the situation of Muslims and Arabs. It is also a helpful book for the layman interested who wants to get a grasp on the people of the now second-largest religion in America. Read this book to get past the media stereotypes of a violent people, and the stereotypes of Arab-Americans in particular. Walbridge brings them alive as humans and Americans, with different traditions and beliefs.	2000-12-14
US	51761391	REQ2UTF7RCCYQ	0966748131	874704580	Confronting The Queen of Heaven	Books	1	15	38	N	N	Like one of the greatest theologians of the church.	Peter takes the religion of the Queen of Heaven that was once believed in Mesopotamia and ancient Israel, and applies it to numerous religions of the area, believing that the spirit of the Queen of Heaven is the same as Artemis that Paul the Apostle confronted.  But Paul was unsuccessful, and the Queen still remains.  Then he applies this belief to his interpretations of the modern manifestations of Mother Teresa and Princess Diana.  When he and the Generals of Intercession prayed against the Queen, their success was indicated when both Teresa and Di died in the same week.<br /><br />I've often thought Peter is much like Origen, often called the church's greatest theologian. In the 3rd century he authored over 2,000 works. Peter has written over 50 books- no mean feat in these days. Origen came up with many of the church's foundational truths and helped to explore them. Peter has been at the forefront of spiritual mapping and signs and wonders, and has contributed immeasurably to Christendom. Origen was also declared a heretic after his death. Read this book to understand how Peter is similar in this respect.<br /><br />[[ASIN:0813201047 Origen: Commentary on the Epistle to the Romans, Books 6-10 (Fathers of the Church)]]<br />[[ASIN:0809121980 Origen: An Exortation to Martyrdom, Prayer, and Selected Works]]	2000-12-04
US	51761391	R3EAU4BIS7Y6AL	0800791924	886027706	The Last of the Giants: Lifting the Veil on Islam and the End Times	Books	2	8	18	N	N	Read something else if you want to learn about Islam	Please pick up another book if you're wanting to understand the interactions between Islam and Christianity. There are many good books for understanding about Islam, and other books for those who wish to love Muslims from a Christian perspective. This is neither. It displays poor scholarship and recapitulates classic Western stereotypes of Islam which hearken back to the crusades. I give it two stars because there is some helpful information present on spiritual mapping, but unfortunately to those unfamiliar with Islam and Muslim-Christian dialogue, they will be lead further astray from a true understanding of the Middle East. I would recommend [[ASIN:0912552654 Muslims and Christians on the Emmaus Road]] by Dudley Woodberry as a very engaging and informative alternative.	2000-11-30
