US	51768736	R2U3Y67MZCWR96	0440241073	782272714	The Summons	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Slow moving, and uninvolving	The novel takes a look at the way money corrupts, and changes people. Ordinary men will cheat, steal, lie and turn violent at the prospect of a large sum of cash.<br />Summoned by his dying father, Ray Atlee returns to his childhood home one last time. When he arrives, he finds Judge Atlee dead on his sofa, and three million dollars in cash in a cabinet behind him. Ray is plagued by a myriad of questions: where did the money come from? Who else knows about it? Would anyone be willing to kill for it?<br />I love legal thrillers, so this was a nice venture back to a long forgotten comfort genre. Grisham's writing is as beautifully descriptive as I remember. Unfortunately, the story moved at a crawling pace, and failed to capture my attention. I couldn't bring myself to become interested in any of the characters, and the ending was a bitter disappointment to say the least.	2003-09-06
US	51768736	R3CIIU5047Z1OY	0743422910	769417678	The Constant Gardener	Books	2	5	9	N	N	A slow-moving look at the pharmaceutical industry	Tessa Quayle, lawyer, activist, and wife to a minor diplomat is found murdered in her Jeep, in Nairobi. The blame falls swiftly on Arnold Bluhm, a doctor suspected of being her lover, and perhaps even father to her stillborn child. Tessa's husband, Justin, disagrees and vows to take up the causes his wife was involved in, in order to retrace her steps and find the real killer.<br />The political aspect of the novel was fascinating. I really enjoyed getting an inside look at how cover-ups really work. The descriptions of Africa were also wonderfully done, and it was clear that LeCarre had done a great deal of research. However, the story itself was very, very slow. Even after I finished the book, I was left with the sense that nothing much had happened. The ending wasn't at all the clear-cut finish I was hoping for, and it felt more philosophical than conclusive.<br />Overall, the book does offer a fascinating look at the large drug / pharmaceutical industries, and their testing habits - particularly, using third-world people to test their new drugs. The companies in question use Africans as their human guinea pigs for drug trials, not caring if the results mean death. I would recommend the novel to those who weren't looking for a fast-paced read, but were interested in political cover-ups and the pharmaceutical industry.	2003-08-27
US	51768736	R370XZ8HAJ719N	0671567667	557948928	The Moon and the Sun	Books	3	2	3	N	N	More psychological than adventurous	Marie-Josephe, after living in a convent, finds herself at the court of Louis XIV. Her brother, Yves, has found a sea monster and has brought it back to his majesty - who believes that the sea monster is the key to his immortality. However, Marie-Josephe can understand and communicate with the creature, and she comes to realize she's not as much a monster, as she is human.<br />I loved all the research that went into writing this book. The court of Louis XIV was amazingly well recreated. I also liked the love-story that was woven in to the plot. The last hundred pages or so were my favorite. Unfortunately, the plot was very slow at times. This isn't a book about great adventures, epic battles and heroes and heroines in the typical sense. Most of the &quot;action&quot; revolves around Marie-Josephe's struggles - both internal, and external while trying to deal with life at court.<br />Just a note of caution: the writing style was extremely descriptive. McIntyre uses a lot of unfamiliar, long words to get her point across. I had to have a dictionary beside me at all times while reading this book. Also, the book dealt a lot with Christianity at the time. Struggles to save one's eternal soul, struggles to discover immortality, and the immoral way most people at court behaved despite Christianity's role in their lives was explored at length.<br />Overall, I would only recommend it to fans of the period, or fans of fantasy novels that are more psychological than adventurous.	2003-08-12
US	51768736	R37ERYBLNXBDXP	0553280341	610600590	B Is for Burglar (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A female PI with spectacular wit and insight	Kinsey is hired to track down a missing person. It seems like a straight-forward, &quot;quickie&quot; case at first, but it quickly turns into much more than that, as she begins to suspect that the person in question isn't just missing - but dead.<br />I love first-person, private detective stories, and Sue Grafton has to be one of the best writers of this type of mystery out there. Kinsey is so realistic, you can't help but root for her. I love that I only know as much as she does (thanks to that first-person viewpoint), and I discover the clues right along with her, which usually keeps me guessing until the last few pages. I thought a couple of loose ends could have been wrapped up a little better in this particular book, but it wasn't enough to detract from the storyline as it developed.<br />Just a quick example of Kinsey's wit and insight: &quot;There is no place in a P.I.'s life for impatience, faintheartendess, or sloppiness. I understand the same qualifications apply for housewives.&quot; (page 33)<br />I'm reading the books in order, and although I enjoyed 'A' is for Alibi slightly more (I liked Kinsey romantically involved, even if her choice of partner left a little to be desired), I'm eagerly looking forward to reading 'C' is for Corpse.	2003-08-07
US	51768736	R1WCOO8IAJLQ8R	0553279912	198755712	A Is for Alibi (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Quick, yet completely engrossing	Kinsey Millhone is a 32 year old, twice divorced, private eye. She lives alone, and she likes it that way. When a client shows up asking her to look into an 8 year old murder, Kinsey reluctantly agrees, and gets more than she bargained for as her search takes her from the quiet town of Santa Teresa to Los Angeles, and Las Vegas.<br />I loved the first-person writing style of this novel. Grafton did an amazing job letting me get into Kinseys head. I knew as much as she did throughout the entire book  and no more. This was perfect for a murder mystery. It was also a very quick read, and completely engrossing. Some of the descriptions of the landscape at times got overly poetic. It didnt happen often, however, so it wasnt a big issue. I would have liked the book to be a little longer, though, but thats only because I liked it so much!<br />I really took to Kinsey, of course. She was tough, arrogant at times, confident, lonely, and way too smart for her own good. I also really liked Charlie. I could have fallen in love with Charlie, and I could see why Kinsey liked him as much as she did.<br />Overall, this is a fun mystery, with a great heroine. I look forward to reading the rest of the books in the series!	2003-08-05
US	51768736	R2WIIZ63KSKSJS	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	1	4	34	N	N	Highly over rated	Im thrilled that I read something by Tolkien the whole way through, so that I can now, without any doubt, say that I absolutely hate his writing, and I will never pick up another one of his books again. I love fantasy, and it's about the only genre I read these days, but Tolkien does absolutely nothing for me.<br />The story was extremely childish (which, I suppose, makes sense, since it was written as a childrens story). Bilbo and company would get themselves in trouble, and the solutions and the ways they got out of seemingly overwhelming circumstances were laughable at best. Trolls get turned to stone by the coming of dawn, giant spiders easily abandon their prey at the sound of a taunt, and even the dragon proves to be less than fierce. Very silly indeed. The writing style was incredibly repetitive! If I had to read, one more time that Bilbo wished he was back in his hobbit hole and not for the last time! I would have had it. As it was, the repetition was really trying my patience. Also, the first person narrator bothered me. Who WAS this person? If he constantly refers to himself as I, then he should make it clear who he is, and how he knows all about the hobbits adventures! Even the storyline was incredibly linear and predictable. There was little to no excitement in the entire book, and nothing caught me by surprise.<br />Overall, I know my opinion is an unpopular one, and there are many fans of Tolkien's writing. I'll just have to accept that I'll never be among them.	2003-08-01
US	51768736	R3I5FNZF3VEXDH	0441004326	776626933	Archangel (Samaria, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fantasy with a touch of romance	Gabriel has known for the last 15 years that he is destined to become the new Archangel. The only thing left to do is to find the wife Jovah had chosen for him. Once found, Rachel proves to be one of Gabriel's biggest problems. She's fiercely independent, and after having spent the last 5 years in slavery, she regards having to become the next Angelica as yet another form of captivity. And as if that wasn't enough, Gabriel has other problems, including the current Archangel, who is power hungry and not happy to give up his current position, and wealthy merchants who doubt that Jovah even exists.<br />ARCHANGEL is a gorgeous mix of romance and fantasy. Rachel and Gabriel's relationship seems truly epic as they struggle with the growing feelings they have for one another. The characterization is beautiful and realistic, and Shinn has the uncanny ability of making this fantasy world come to life. There is just enough political intrigue, philosophy, and religious debate thrown in to make your mind work a bit. The only (minor) problem I had with the book was that it might have been a little too \\"textbook romance\\" at times. The two main characters spent the entire span of the novel trying to deny their feelings.<br />However, the writing style was beautifully descriptive. I was particularly impressed with the way I was able to visualize the world she had created. The plot was simple, yet captivating and unique. I was eager to find out if Rachel would change Gabriel, and vice-versa. <br />A defnite must read for those who like their fantasy with a touch of romance.	2003-07-26
US	51768736	R26LUTO4TAJAYN	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Mind fluff meets quantum physics	An archeological dig is funded by a huge technology company. When the question arises as to the real reason this company would be funding an archeology dig, it becomes clear that ITC has been working on a secret technology that would allow people to \\"go back in time\\". That's when the Professor overseeing this particular dig decides to take a trip into the past and see for himself, and he promptly gets taken prisoner. The only ones who can save him are 4 of his students, who are sent back for him.<br />TIMELINE was an incredibly fast read. There was a lot of dialogue, exciting battle scenes, and it was clear that Chrichton had put a lot of work into getting the technological and historical details just right. There were quite a few plot-twists along the way, and I really enjoyed those. The narrative pacing was extremely well done - I was enthralled by the book to the point that I wanted to read it in one sitting, cover to cover. The plot line itself was very creative. Having the technology available to time-travel was a fascinating premise, and it became even more interesting when the recovery team was stranded in the past along with their professor.<br />A few questions arose time and time again throughout this novel: if time-travel were possible, could we influence the past and thus, change the future? And just how important is it to know our history and to understand how the world we live in now was influenced by the past?<br />At times the book seemed a little too easy to read. Mind fluff can be fun, but every now and again I was craving something a little more challenging, especially since the premise had so much potential. However, the technological detail, and the discussion about quantum physics was fascinating, so there was a fairly good mix of theoretical speculation and action.<br />I'd recommend TIMELINE to Chrichton fans, as well as to those interested in historical details.	2003-07-23
US	51768736	RVSOK1UPM0L3	0312084412	614086894	Blood games: A novel of historical horror, third in the Count de Saint-Germain series	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A must read for historical fiction fans	After having been alive for two thousand years, Sanct' Germain finds himself in Rome, at the time of Emperor Nero. In the 7 years that follow, during political and social turmoil, Sanct' Germain meets Atta Olivia Clemens, who is suffering unspeakable torture at the hands of her husband. Together, they save each other through their shared love.<br />Truly, this book was incredibly well researched. Every detail of life in Rome at that time was impeccable - from the vivid descriptions of arena games, to the imperial plots and political backstabbing, it felt as if I was actually there. I also very much enjoyed the way Yarbro portrayed vampires in her novel. Sanct' Germain was different. He was able to go out in sunlight and cross running water, as long as he took some precautions beforehand. It was also interesting to discover the way he made other vampires... it wasn't what I was expecting. I was fascinated by the way each chapter began with a letter. It gave me a lot more insight into Roman culture than I otherwise could have obtained from just reading the chapters themselves. At times, I found that I looked forward to the letter to come more than the chapter itself!<br />The writing style flowed beautifully. I was especially amazed by how the dialogue sounded so true. Each time a character spoke it made me feel as if I was listening to a Roman citizen speaking.  The story line was fascinating. I found the book an incredible page-turner, and the plot progressed smoothly throughout the novel. I couldn't wait to see what would happen next.<br />As far as characters go, I really liked Olivia. She had to endure so much at the hands of her husband, and I was in awe of how she was able to handle it as well as she did. She took strength from Sanct' Germain, and managed to continue on, no matter how hard it was for her. I admired the way she lived for those stolen moments, when it could have been so easy for her to give in and perhaps take her own life. I also really liked Sanct' Germain. He was so compassionate, and caring, and strong... admirable qualities in any century. Tishtry was another character I admired. She was very confident in her abilities, and herself. Even though she was a slave, she had a self-respect few people have. Justus, Olivia's husband, was a character I loved to hate. My breathing came just a little faster each time a chapter focused on him. I didn't know what to expect. It's been a long time since I've felt such complete loathing for a literary character.<br />I found myself thinking about the memorable themes in this novel: mainly, the cruelties of men in the name of power and entertainment. Betrayal, and the way people can mask their evil nature were also major themes. The \\"unnatural creature\\" turned out to be much kinder and compassionate than a highly regarded Roman Senator. <br />Overall, a definite must-read for any historical fiction, or vampire fan.	2003-07-17
US	51768736	R2PTR0FEAT5W0Q	044661257X	84426835	If Looks Could Kill	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Light, yet simplistic	Bailey Weggins, a thirty-something freelance writer becomes involved in solving a murder when she discovers the body of her boss's nanny. The story unfolds like a usual mystery - the suspects are considered one by one, and Bailey follows a number of false leads before suddenly discovering the real killer at the end of the novel.<br />\\"If Looks Could Kill\\" was a quick, easy read. I loved that it was set in New York City, and it was very sexy at times. It was obvious to me that White had inside knowledge of the Fashion Industry herself - every character's outfit was described in lengthy detail, and that helped me form a detailed picture of each character in my mind's eye.<br />Unfortunately, I felt that the story dragged in places. Bailey followed one lead after another, but without any real depth or insight. Just one task after another, as if I was watching someone go through their daily routine - and it stirred up about that same level of excitement. The writing style was very simple. It was meant to be edgy at times, using slang and words someone young might utter, and I suppose it fit in with the New York theme. The entire tone of the novel was very light, even while it tackled such a heavy topic as murder.<br />As far as the characters go, I liked Landon best out of all of them, and I wish he had been given more depth as a character. Unfortunately, he only appeared in a couple of scenes. The same was true of Jack, who I also instantly liked. Oddly enough, I didn't quite take to any of the women, including Bailey herself. They all seemed aloof, whiny, and just slightly out of my grasp and understanding.<br />Bottom line: a light, entertaining read, but simplistic and predictable in the end.	2003-07-12
US	51768736	R870UYP6JSI50	051513449X	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter: Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Anita -  the ultimate vampire slayer	Anita Blake, vampire slayer. She describes herself as ?tough-as-nails?, and she?s right. In this novel, she goes up against a thousand year-old vampire, named Nikolaos. Throw in some zombies, ghouls, wererats, and some good, old-fashioned bad guys, and you?ve got a heck of a story!<br />I took to Anita instantly. Tough, strong, sexy, brave? and yet also honestly afraid in many circumstances. No false bravado here. I wanted to continue reading just to see what kind of trouble she could get herself into next. I also really liked Jean Claude. He seemed smooth, and sexy ? the ultimate vampire.<br />I found the book to be a page-turner. I read it quickly, and hated to put it down. It was action-packed.<br />That being said, I did find the writing style a little too simple, the plot a little too straightforward. Minor flaws, though. <br />Overall, I would recommend this book to anyone with an interest in the Supernatural, vampire stories, or just a tough female character.	2003-07-10
US	51768736	R1GJVX7EUTS29G	0375727132	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderfully captivating	Carrie has lived her entire life in the same small town, surrounded by the same friends, and dating the same guy for 8 years. Suddenly, she finds her life stifling, and wonders if there's something more. When her fiancée has a horrible accident and becomes paralyzed, Carrie finds herself unable to cope. The book deals with the question of how much we owe those we love... and whether we should sacrifice ourselves for them.<br />There were so many reasons I loved this book. Simply put, though, I loved Carrie. I put myself in her shoes throughout the entire book. It was hard not to think of myself as her as I read. I also loved the writing style - simple, yet beautiful. The descriptions were artful and captivating.<br />To be honest, the only thing I disliked about this beautiful novel was the ending. I felt frustrated by Carrie's choice at the end of the novel, and that's the only thing keeping me from giving this book a perfect score and adding it to my permanent collection. Every now and again I also found myself a little annoyed by the abrupt endings in chapter sections. I wanted to know more about a specific dinner party, or class Carrie was taking, or lovemaking session, and they'd often be cut short.<br />Overall, this is a wonderfully captivating book. It pulls you in from the first few pages and never lets go.	2003-07-07
US	51768736	R1WXWROMJJUCMS	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	3	3	11	N	N	Great historical research, but little payoff	\\"Year of Wonders\\" tells the story of Anna, an 18 year old mother-of-two, who lives to witness a horrible period in England's history: the Plague. In the period of one year, she watches as her friends, neighbors and family succumb to this horrible disease. The novel is as much about the Plague as it is about the struggle of mankind to survive in the face of such overwhelming horror.<br />I'm extremely fascinated by the plague, so I found the subject matter of the book captivating. I also thought the historical research was impeccable. The way Brooks described life in a small village in the 17th century was enchanting. The characterization was good, for the most part, as well. I also really liked the ending.<br />However, I disliked the writing style. It was flowery, poetic, lyrical, but too much so. I found that reading \\"Year of Wonders\\" took a lot of my concentration, and I found myself easily bored by the flowery descriptions. I also had a hard time keeping track of all the villagers. There were so many names mentioned in passing, and when they were brought up again chapters later, it was hard to remember who the person was, and why they were important. <br />Unfortunately, I also didn't like any of the characters very much. I was unable to relate to Anna. She seemed too modern at times, while other times she would cower in fear at the slightest threat. For a \\"strong\\" heroine, her character traits were surprising and unrealistic. Elinor seemed like the incarnation of a saint. She was utterly perfect, and once again, unrealistic. Mr. Mompellion rubbed me the wrong way from the start, and it became increasingly clear to me that I didn't like him at all as the book drew to a close. At least his actions and dark side are explained.<br />If you're looking for a light-hearted novel, this isn't it. I would recommend it only for those who enjoy flowery descriptions and poetic language, and are drawn to the subject of the plague.	2003-07-01
US	51768736	REOVBMKU08MCL	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	2	4	17	N	N	Dissappointing, considering the hype	What a huge dissappointment! I found the book extremely boring. Maybe I've been spoiled by the recent fantasy/sf I've been reading, but I found the plot very slow moving, and generally uninteresting and uninvolving. I also disliked the extreme amount of humor and satire in this book. I prefer my novels to be more realistic. I like adult situations (complex relationships, betrayal, violence, etc), and I couldn't find any here. It felt as if I was watching one LONG episode of Futurama.<br />There were good things, however. The book was extremely short. I got through it in one sitting (about three hours), and I don't think I've ever done that before. Also, I found the book slightly humorous in parts, which served to barely keep my interest for that 3-hour reading stretch.	2003-06-26
US	51768736	R188847RBWVJRW	0345430816	715871325	The Drawing of the Dark (Del Rey Impact)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A great mix of myth, legend, history and fantasy	This book offered a wonderful mix of history, fantasy, allegory, mythological creatures, and a middle-aged, drunken, grumpy hero. What's not to like?<br />Okay, if I had to pick something to criticize, I'd say that I found the plot a little slow at times. Also, the ending seemed a little rushed to me, and it didn't give me that sense of closure I was hoping for.<br />However, the writing style was gorgeous. Very atmospheric, beautifully detailed, mixed with just the right amount of humor. A perfect blend.<br />The characterization was also spectacular. Aurelianus / Merlin was my favorite character... but then again, that might just be my thing for cute old wizards again. I liked Duffy also. His grumpy attitude made him more endearing than any swash-bucking hero attitude he might have had. I also liked Bluto. Then again, I have a thing for hunch-backs too. ;)<br />And last but not least, I was utterly stunned when I finally realized where the title comes from! I won't give it away though... needless to say, it's very clever!<br />I'm looking forward to reading more Tim Powers novels. This was a very promising start, and I hear it only getts better from here! :)	2003-06-25
US	51768736	R28869L8KVEC1J	0061056219	373132481	The Lions of Al-Rassan	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful, original fantasy	Differences in religious viewpoints really can destroy the world, as we know it. However, some relationships can survive a radically different viewpoint, which shows that there is hope for us all. <br />But first things first: this has to be the best fantasy novel I've read in a long time. I couldn't put it down! The writing style was incredible; the characters magnificent - I could relate to each and every one of them on some level. The female characters in particular were breathtaking - strong, yet feminine. Not a stereotypical one among them. I loved the way Kay kept me guessing as I read as well. Things never turned out quite the way I expected, and the plot twists were exciting and well executed. Kay has an amazing grasp of language. Some of the descriptive passages left me in complete awe. I also appreciated the use of our own religious background to infuse this novel's history. I could see glimpes of Jews (the Kindath), the Muslims (Asharites), and the Christians (Jaddites).<br />Kay has an incredible writing style - uniquely descriptive, captivating, and enchanting. It leaves you breathless with anticipation and eager to turn the next page.<br />The plot line was superb. It was complex, yet it flowed beautifully, and every small detail was eventually explained. <br />As far as characters go, I loved Jehane. She was strong, brave, and willing to enter into dire circumstances without a second thought to her own welfare. I also loved her father. He was the epitome of a courageous, kind physician. He overcame a terrible handicap to return to his family and his practice, to a degree. I also liked both Ammar and Belmonte. They were both so... real. Very much alike, very stubborn, well-spoken, brave military leaders.<br />I would recommend this book to lovers of fantasy, historical fiction, and fans of a darn good story alike.	2003-06-14
US	51768736	R3VUMTS7IO7115	0812580354	77230724	Calculating God	Books	4	7	8	N	N	What if God isn't what we make  him out to be?	The existence of God is central to the theme of the novel. What if God really exists? What if he's not the omnipotent being that humans have made him out to be? What if he's all too real, and flawed, and indifferent to the individual? This is the premise that gets developed throughout the novel. Sawyer does a wonderful job of weaving science with moral issues, and yet the book doesn't pretend to have all the answers, and in fact, leaves the reader with more questions than when he/she began to read CALCULATING GOD.<br />For science buffs, there is a ton of discussion on a variety of subjects: biology, evolution, paleontology, and cosmology, to name a few.<br />I loved the way CALCULATING GOD was written - from the perspective of a terminally ill man, who does not believe in God but wishes he did, if only to have a way to explain what is happening to him. The characters were wonderfully created. Hollus, the alien that arrives on earth at the beginning of the novel, appealed to me from the beginning. Sawyer did a wonderful job of making him (her) a believable entity.<br />I was a little confused by the scientific talk at times, and while reading through particular chapters, I was reminded of Plato's Dialogues (two beings speaking to each other, one trying to convince the other that issues of science, morality, or just abstract ideas are true in the way he/she sees them). Neither one of these issues is enough to take away from the fact that this is an engrossing novel.  <br />A definite must-read for science-fiction fans, especially those with a taste for moral/religious questions, and the mix of faith and scientific discovery.	2003-05-29
US	51768736	R2K397478FDS5A	0451450957	529934329	Blue Moon Rising (Hawk & Fisher)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Original fantasy, with an ironic and sarcastic twist	Blue Moon Rising seemed to have two very interesting facets. At first, it was funny, and silly - almost a little too much so. The first two chapters reminded me of \\"Shrek\\" - I was reading about a cowardly frightened unicorn and a dragon that collected butterflies. Then, the book took on a slightly darker tone. The adventures became more serious, more dangerous, and generally more descriptive. Although humor was intertwined with the rest of the action in the novel, it was no longer the focus point of the story.<br />There isn't much about the book I didn't like. At first I was a little weary of the humor, and the tone of the beginning of the book, but as that tone changed, I started liking the book more and more. If there were one thing I could note as having \\"disliked\\", it would be the repetition. I can't remember the number of times something enveloped one of the characters \\"like an old familiar cloak\\", for example.<br />The writing style was simple, and it worked well with the novel. It reminded me of the writing style used in Dragonlance novels. Simple, yet not child-like. Descriptive, yet not over-the-top.<br />I would definitely recommend this book for those looking for a fun fantasy read, with an original, ironic and sarcastic twist not found in other fantasy novels.	2003-05-21
US	51768736	R11HFTXL5NAVOF	0765342987	615549012	Kushiel's Dart	Books	1	27	48	N	N	Too much torture... too little to hold my interest	Even before I started reading the book, I was extremely concerned about the level of sexual encounters involving pain. I'm not a prudish person, and I quite enjoy a well-written sex scene, but throw in any kind of pain, and you lost me. Even so, I was constantly encouraged by friends who have read \\"Kushiel's Dart\\", to put my concerns aside and give the novel a try.<br />As it turns out: I couldn't handle it. Every time Phedre was whipped, slapped, burned with a hot poker, pinched, hit, tortured, had her hair pulled, etc, I winced and read faster, willing it to end. It didn't matter to me how much Phedre enjoyed it... the only thing I noticed is how much these situations bothered me. Even this I could have handled, if I had found any of the characters enjoyable in the least. I didn't.<br />I found I could have cared less about the political/courtly intrigue, an aspect of fantasy novels that I normally enjoy greatly. I got 200 pages into the book, and I couldn't find one character I liked. I didn't like Phedre. I couldn't relate to her. Worse, I couldn't understand her motivations - what drove her, what made her the way she was. Maybe all that will be explained in more detail later in the book, but I won't be finding out. I didn't like any of her friends, or influences. I hated Alcuin. He seemed a weak character - one who wasn't developed well enough for me. Delaunay seemed cold, and I also found it hard to understand his motives (again, I assume this will be explained later also). I had no feelings one way or another for the Prince, or Melisande, or any of Phedre's patrons.<br />In short... there was nothing to keep me reading through the torturous sex scenes. This is the first book I tossed, unfinished, in a very long time. I'm normally very stubborn, and I like to finish what I start; but I just couldn't see myself reading another 700 pages of \\"Kushiel's Dart\\".	2003-05-12
US	51768736	R1066P04N4GVRF	0553565214	586895703	Daggerspell (Deverry Series, Book One)	Books	2	5	12	N	N	Dissappointing light fantasy.	The good things: I liked the world Katharine Kerr created. The environment was believable, and beautifully detailed. The Wildfolk were absolutely adorable - I wanted to learn more about them. The story line was nicely woven together, and I liked the way women were depicted in this novel, and the role they had to play in the story.<br />The bad things: I found the writing style to be quite bland. The descriptions and details were average at best, although the dialogue rang true in many instances. Overall, though, it was quite unmemorable. In addition to that, it all seemed a little too easy to me. The battles didn't seem hard fought. The characters' hardships were somehow always easily resolved, seeming to be nothing more than minor setbacks instead of real problems. As far as themes go, the incest theme bothered me a great deal. I'm not a prudish person, but just the idea of incest makes me squirm. In this novel, the theme wasn't just touched upon; it was explored in depth, making me unable to truly enjoy the depth of the story. The transition between the past and the present was also quite awkward at times.<br />Overall, I would not recommend this novel. For those who do end up reading it, it should only be read as a fun, light, fantasy novel and with no greater expectations.	2003-04-23
US	51768736	R3D4998YUYPKC7	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The human soul endures...	I enjoyed this book immensely - for the most part because I got very attached to the characters. The descriptions were vivid (extremely so at times, especially when the author described in great detail the effects of the plague), and I found the plot fast moving and completely engrossing. Time travel was very well implemented in this book. Time travel techniques were discussed in detail, and explained thoroughly. I also loved the way the author paralleled the 21st century with the 14th century. Each character in one century has a parallel character in the other century. <br />My only problem with the book was the occasional [typical] character. Mrs. Gaddison was very one-dimensional - the typical busy body, annoying, and overprotective woman. William was a womanizer, and nothing else. Imeyne was the disapproving old woman, constantly looking for something to be angry about, someone to blame. And Colin, the [typical] kid, was constantly sucking on his candy (and I mean constantly), and using words like: \\"necrotic\\", and \\"apocalyptic\\". <br />The writing style worked really well in this book. At times, I felt the author was writing specifically for British readers, however, on occasion using terms I was unfamiliar with, but which I knew a British reader would instantly pick up on. (Example: anytime someone hung up the phone, the person was said to \\"ring off\\", instead of simply \\"hang up\\").<br />Overall, I found the book to be a fast read, and an engrossing tale. The main theme was the devastation people have to endure in any century, and how humans persevere, and survive incredible hardship. Definitely a worthwhile read for those intrested in the concept of time travel and the idea of experiencing an extremely trying time in human history.	2003-04-12
US	51768736	R2WOGITL214Z2T	0553560735	710568866	Red Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting premise, but too much technical detail.	I found Red Mars to be a very slow read, but surprisingly enjoyable. The story, although bogged down with infinite technical detail (most of which wasn't properly explained), was at its heart a story about people - their hardships and triumphs, their emotions and their conflicts with one another. <br />I really disliked the overwhelming amount of technical detail. There was too much of it...most of the time it was hard to continue reading, and I found myself wanting to skip ahead. I also found it hard to like many of the characters. I had a couple of favorites, but that's about it. I didn't care what happened to the rest at all. At times, I found myself in awe of the way Robinson writes. He has a particular talent for describing things. Unfortunately, it's this same talent that often leads to long, drawn out descriptions that I often found to be unnecessary.<br />It's clear that the plot was very well thought out from the beginning. The idea of colonizing Mars is brought to life in such vivid detail, that's it's hard to come back to reality at times. The story line progressed nicely, although the time frame was somewhat confusing for me. I wasn't quite sure how many weeks/months/years had passed between chapters, or even sections of the same chapter.<br />Overall, not a bad book, and in fact, I plan on reading Green Mars and Blue Mars down the road... but after Red Mars, some light reading is in order.	2003-03-02
US	51768736	R23VEK1BF0WWY6	0553564943	930626996	Magician: Apprentice	Books	3	3	6	N	N	It had so much potential...	I loved the way the story started. I was immediately drawn in to the world of Midkemia, and I instantly took a liking to the main character, Pug. All this held my interest for a while, and then I slowly became bored. I was bored with the storyline, bored with the characters, bored with the dialogue... just bored. I stuck it out, though, and as the plot slowly unraveled, the characters became better known, and I was once again drawn to them.<br />Raymond E. Feist writes well, without the need for elaborate words and run-on sentences which can often be found in fantasy novels. In fact, the only criticism I have when it comes to his writing is based on the way he writes dialogue. Oftentimes, it's forced, and it just doesn't sound like something a person would say. This is especially true when he writes dialogue for children - they all speak like adults, and it's hard to remember that they are only children.<br />That being said, this was not a total waste of my time - it was an easy and fun read, and I got through it quickly. However, I will not be picking up any of the sequels. One was more than enough.	2002-08-08
US	51768736	R12LHE8ES04BXD	0684834723	290288221	The Letter (The Christmas Box Trilogy)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Must Read!	It's been a long time since a book has captured my attention and pulled at my heartstrings like this one. It's a must-read for anyone looking for a gripping, moving story about real relationships.<br />Based on a true story,  &quot;The Letter&quot; is a fast read, but more importantly, it's one that  is hard to put down at night.<br />The characters are described in-depth, and  they are beliavable and likeable.	2000-01-13
US	51768736	R3FSVCQRQJ9JS5	1859676278	834001711	Chinese Astrology Handbook: A Complete Guide to the Chinese Horoscope (New Life Library)	Books	1	7	9	N	N	Only worth flipping through in the book store	A quick read for those with a passing interest in Chinese Astrology. This particular book is not very detailed, but is a great starting place for those with no previous knowledge of the subject.<br />This book gives the impression of not taking itself too seriously. It is entertaining, and that  fact alone makes it hard to take the contents, and the idea of Chinese  Astrology, seriously.	2000-01-09
US	51768736	RIWZZ2E14HGI7	0425156842	380749586	Sophie's world: a novel about the history of philosophy (Berkeley Signature Edition)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	A textbook read.	I picked up Sophie's World at the wrong time. Between school and a busy homelife, I needed some quick reading and this certainly wasn't light reading!<br />The history of philosophy is, of course, very detailed. Jostein  Gaarder has written an in-depth, fascinating book, but unfortunatelly, one  has to be in a specific state of mind to be able to follow along, and come  away from this wonderful literary experience with everything the author  intended.<br />So, to recap, great book, but only pick it up if you have the  time and interest in being completely absorbed in the very detailed, and  often dry, history of philosophy and the world in general.<br />Not unlike  reading a textbook -- fascinating, but often boring.	2000-01-08
US	51768736	R2RBTF3OSUYR1M	0440221471	692576280	The Runaway Jury	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Not Mr. Grisham's best work.	The plot was slow-moving and thoroughly uninteresting. The characters were not well developed. Although the author tried to give us insight into each and every juror's psyche, I couldn't tell what made them tick. I also found  it hard to keep track of these people in my mind as I read: 12 jurors, 3  extras, countless lawyers on each side and even more outside parties  working undercover for the lawyers.<br /> The best aspect of the novel was the  thorough and elaborate description of the effects of smoking and tobacco  companies themselves.<br /> The book was a fast read, but certainly not a  page-turner.	1999-11-28
US	51768736	R1C3O40AGAG84Q	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent!	It had been a long time since I've read a book that I could not put down. Martin's book, A Game of Thrones managed to do that. It captured my imagination with greatly developed characters. I could associate with each  one of them in turn, even the &quot;evil&quot; characters were described in  such great detail, that the reader could always understand where they're  coming from.<br />Overall, a wonderful read. I would recommend it to anyone  (my mother-in-law loved it as well).	1999-06-21
US	51768736	R2GDVMHEVJ0ALV	0440224721	532391891	Obstruction of Justice (Nina Reilly)	Books	1	3	6	N	N	Very, very dissapointing	I'm a big fan of legal thrillers, and currently attending law school. John Grisham is one of my favorite authors, but since I've exhausted all his written material, I thought I should try something else. I picked this one  up from my mother-in-law, who mentioned she got through it in a couple of  days, and it was a quick read. I was extremely disappointed. The plot was  weak, and the writing style almost unbearable! I found myself editing the  book constantly, and that took away from my enjoyment of the novel. I also  got through it in a couple of days, hoping ferverently it would get better.  It didn't. Too bad there is no rating lower than 1 star. That's what this  book really deserves.	1999-05-19
