US	51762070	RL0NDREVTOCF3	0664226108	128363849	The Gospel According to Tolkien: Visions of the Kingdom in Middle-earth	Books	5	127	129	N	N	Very helpful and thought-provoking	I have read a number of books that explore the themes of The Lord of the Rings.  Some of these books have attempted to deal with alleged Christian themes in the story.  Some of those books are ridiculously shallow and superficial.  Others are quite insightful.  Ralph Wood's book falls into the latter category - a very helpful and thoughtful exploration of the issues.  [NOTE: The 1 star review by the person from NYC who could only manage to make it through the first chapters tells us more about the reviewer than the book].<br />Wood chooses to approach the material in a different way.  His book is divided into five chapters, each of which centers on a major element in the Christian worldview: Creation, Evil, the Moral Life, the Redeemed Life, and final Consummation.  <br />Using material drawn from the Hobbit, the Lord of the Rings, the Silmarillion, and other less well-known stories, Wood examines the way that Tolkien handles these themes in the mythology of Middle-earth.  <br />Contrary to what another reviewer below claims, Wood does not overstate his case, nor does he ignore passages in Tolkien's stories that might seem to contradict his thesis (this is particularly true in his handling of the virtue of hope).<br />The last chapter is especially interesting because it examines a little-known story buried in the multi-volume &quot;History of Middle Earth&quot; series (the specific volume is titled Morgoth's Ring) edited by Christopher Tolkien.  This work entitled &quot;The Debate of Finrod and Andreth&quot; is set in the form of a debate between an elf and a human, and it contains a fascinating prophecy of the future incaration of Iluvatar (the one God of the Tolkien mythology) and the final eradication of evil and the renewal of all creation.	2003-10-16
US	51762070	RWC5V2YVKIL2E	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	113	184	N	N	More pseudo-scholarly tripe from Coulter	As someone who is neither a liberal nor a Democrat, I find it amazing that so many self-professed &quot;conservatives&quot; admire Ann Coulter.  Every column she writes, every chapter of every book she writes, every on-air appearance she makes is nothing more than a simplistic rehashing of the same idea over and over again.  If you want to know what Ann Coulter thinks (and I use that term loosely), it is simply this: &quot;If there's something wrong, it's the lib-ruls fault.&quot;  It's her catch-all scapegoat for everything.<br />Is the economy faltering?  Don't look for complex causes.  Just blame lib-ruls.<br />Is Washington, D.C. a mess?  Don't consider the fact that it might be the fault of both major parties because the Republicans are infallible.  Just blame the lib-ruls.<br />Is your cat obese?  Well, according to the one-note mind of Ann Coulter, that's probably the fault of the lib-ruls too.<br />I'm just waiting for the column (or book) in which she blames AIDS, menopause, the current European heat-wave, and the Fall of the Roman Empire on Democrats and lib-ruls.<br />The kind of simplistic tripe that passes for &quot;analysis&quot; in all of her writing is a joke.  It's entertainment passing itself off as serious critical thinking.  Coulter's caustic one-liner style sells well in the shout-a-thons that call themselves news programs today, but it should not be confused with intelligent, reasoned, and thoughtful argumentation.<br />She's a cheerleader.  Nothing more and nothing less.  And like all cheerleaders, she doesn't have to think.  She just has to reflexively root for her side no matter what.	2003-08-13
US	51762070	R3CSL877UYAWMT	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	2	13	19	N	N	Good for the first 3/4, then...crash and burn.	While browsing in a local bookstore, I ran across a book on Stephen King in which the author ranked his all-time favorite King books.  \\"It\\" was ranked #1, and \\"The Stand\\" was ranked # 2.  Since I had read and enjoyed \\"The Stand\\" but had never read \\"It\\", I decided to pick it up and give it a try.<br />I rather enjoyed the first 3/4 of the book.  By gradually revealing more and more through the device of switching between events in the present and those in a particular Summer many years ago, King is able to build suspense and keep the reader intrigued.  \\"What is 'It'?\\" we wonder.<br />Unfortunately, the gradual discovery of what \\"It\\" is is the most disappointing part of the book.  When the identity of \\"It\\" finally becomes clear, my response was \\"You've got to be kidding.\\"  It suddenly switches from horror to absurdity.  I realize that in stories of this kind some \\"suspension of disbelief\\" is necessary, but but there is only so far a reader can go within the internal logic of a story.  The events that occur in the final chapters of the book as the main characters battle \\"It\\" are some of the dumbest words I've ever read.  The words of the Principal in the movie \\"Billy Madison\\" would be an appropriate response to the author of this novel: \\"What you've just said is one of the most insanely idiotic things I have ever heard. At no point in your rambling, incoherent response were you even close to anything that could be considered a rational thought. Everyone in this room is now dumber for having listened to it. I award you no points, and may God have mercy on your soul.\\"<br />[As an added note, there is one \\"scene\\" near the end of the book (a \\"sex scene\\") which is, considering the ages of those involved, completely inappropriate in any context].	2003-06-26
US	51762070	R21LKOPJJXR6VE	0060670843	336019156	A New Christianity for a New World: Why Traditional Faith Is Dying and How a New Faith Is Being Born	Books	1	27	54	N	N	Another one by the pseudo-scholar Spong	There are a lot of conservative Christians who find Spong threatening.  I don't.  The best adjective I can think of to describe Spong is \\"amusing.\\"  This is what...the tenth or eleventh book he's written claiming that traditional Christianity is dead or dying and must be replaced by something new.  <br />There are several things amusing about the thesis of Spong's book.  First of all, there's nothing new about it.  Radicals have been proclaiming the death throes of conservative Christianity for centuries.  Anybody remember Voltaire?  The death of God theologians of the 60s?  Spong's theology is simply the latest faddish manifestation of this tired old trend.  <br />Secondly, the idea that traditional  Christian faith is dying is manifestly false.  As Philip Jenkins points out in his recent book \\"The Next Christendom: The Coming of Global Christianity\\" (and as many others have pointed out elsewhere) precisely the opposite is true.  The places in the world where Christianity is experiencing explosive growth are third world nations in Asia, Africa, and Latin America.  The form of Christianity that is exploding in these areas of the world is a traditional, supernaturally oriented faith - not the dead liberal faith of Spong.  <br />If there is any form of Christianity that is \\"dying\\" and becoming irrelevant on a worldwide scale, it is the Enlightenment based liberal Christianity of men like Bishop Spong.  Traditional Christianity may be dying in the Western, upper middle class, mainline Protestant world that Spong inhabits, but it is alive and well and growing everywhere else.  If Spong wants to remain willfully ignorant of Christianity outside of his insulated little world, that's his business, but the conservative bishops and pastors in Africa, Asia, and Latin America who can barely keep up with the growth in their parishes would find his book laugh-out-loud funny (in the unlikely case they felt it important enough to read).<br />I also find it amusing that people giveSpong's books good reviews based on their impression that he is some kind of real scholar.  The fact is the man's work would receive a failing grade in any undergraduate school in the world.  His \\"scholarship\\" is selective, superficial, and highly uncritical.  The pseudo-scholarly nature of his work has been abundantly demonstrated by the Oxford trained New Testament scholar N.T. Wright (See \\"Who Was Jesus\\" pp. 65-92).  Anyone who seriously believes that Spong is a real scholar should read this brief critique by Wright.  [Note: Marcus Borg, a real scholar and a liberal, calls Wright \\"the leading British Jesus scholar of his generation\\"].  The Oxford theologian Alister McGrath also points out the shallow superficiality of Spong's work in his \\"The Renewal of Anglicanism\\" (pp. 38-42).<br />The fact of the matter is that Spong's attempts at scholarly work are a joke.  He simply rehashes long discredited radical historical speculations with a dogmatism that would make Jerry Falwell proud.<br />If you insist on adhering to an increasingly irrelevant and dogmatic old-fashioned liberalism, at least read serious scholarship by liberals like Marcus Borg.  If you're a liberal who is open-minded enough to have your assumptions challenged, read N.T. Wright.  You can even save some money and read both men side by side in the book \\"The Meaning of Jesus.\\"<br />Spong, on the other hand, is simply another in a long line of people who have an overinflated sense of their own importance.  In 20 years (if that long) he and his books will be forgotten.	2002-09-25
US	51762070	R303HFZIN4IXWJ	0851517935	421584951	Promise of the Future	Books	5	34	38	N	N	A true optimistic amillennialist!	Cornelis Venema has done the church a wonderful service by writing a comprehensive and accessible text on eschatology from a consistently Reformed perspective.  The book thoroughly covers all of the important topics in both individual and cosmic eschatology: death, the intermediate state, the second coming, signs of the times, millennial views, the resurrection of the body, final judgment, heaven, and hell.  He does so in a fair and irenic manner.<br />I would take issue with a few interpretive details, but these minor quibbles do not detract from my overall enthusiasm for the book.  I would highly recommend it to anyone seeking a good single volume resource on eschatology.	2001-06-05
US	51762070	R2ALTC7NHLNUZZ	0800630912	127226325	Martin Luther's Theology: Its Historical and Systematic Development	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Outstanding Overview	Lohse has done the church an invaluable service by providing this overview of Luther's theology.  In the first part of the book, the author sets the stage for the remainder of the study with some preliminary chapters delaing with issues such as the historical and theological situation in the early sixteenth century and Martin Luther's early life.<br />The second part of the book is the most helpful in that it traces the development of Luther's thought historically in the context of his many debates, disputations and conflicts.  From his marginal notes in Augustine to his debates with the antinomians, Lohse provides a good understanding of how Luther's thought took its final form.<br />The third part of the book attempts to approach Luther's theology from a more systematic perspective, dealing with it topically.  It is divided into chapters on sola scriptura, reason and faith, sin, justification, the church, etc.  Lohse provides some crucial insights into Luther's views on each of these doctrines in this section.  The book concludes with a brief appendix on Luther's attitude toward the Jews - an important addition at the close of the twentieth century.<br />This book should be the standard reference on the theology of Luther for years to come.	2001-03-09
US	51762070	RHPRIZ36AFTDL	0849913179	877691380	A New Systematic Theology of the Christian Faith	Books	1	62	80	N	N	A sad day for Reformed theology	I have to say that I was excited when I first heard that Dr. Reymond was producing this new systematic theology text.  Since Louis Berkhof, there have been very few systematic theology texts written from a consistently Reformed viewpoint (Morton Smith's 2 vol. set is in print but difficult to obtain).  It was with great anticipation, then, that I began reading Reymond's textbook.  Having read some of his past work, I knew the book would be thoroughly exegetical and strongly Reformed.<br />My enthusiasm for the book was dampened almost immediately when, in the introduction, I read Dr. Reymond calling for Reformed Christians to abandon Nicene trinitarianism in favor of what he thinks is &quot;Reformed&quot; trinitarianism.  Immediately, I skipped ahead and read the relevant chapters on &quot;The Trinity and the Creeds.&quot;  Whatever valuable contributions Reymond makes in other areas of the book (and there are some) are fatally compromised by his abandonment of orthodox Christian trinitarianism in this section of the book.  <br />Not only does he reject orthodox Christian trinitarianism, he does so on shoddy scholarly grounds.  First he claims that Nicene trinitarianism is inherently subordinationist, yet even a cursory examination of the relevant primary sources will show this to be patently false.  He shows a horrible grasp of what the Nicene fathers actually taught.  (This may be due in part to the fact that there is little evidence he read any primary sources from the early church on the subject of the Trinity).  Secondly, he claims Calvin for his position when this can also easily be proven to be false.  His only support for his claim that Calvin shares his rejection of orthodox trinitarianism is a citation from one paragraph out of a 95 page essay written by B.B. Warfield entitled &quot;Calvin and the Trinity.&quot;  The problem is that Reymond not only misreads Calvin, he badly misreads Warfield on Calvin.  One has only to read Warfield's entire paper, and hewill see immediately that Warfield - not once - but numerous times demonstrates Calvin's strong adherence to Nicene trinitarianism.  By taking one paragrpah from Warfield out of its context, Reymond has not only badly slandered Calvin, he has badly slandered Warfield.  Neither of these Reformed giants would have advocated adopting Reymond's trinitarian heresy.<br />I would strongly recommend that any student of theology who is interested in this volume find a copy of the Fall 2000 issue of the Westminster Theological Journal and carefully read the book review of Reymond's text found therein.  <br />In calling Reformed believers to abandon Nicene trinitarianism, Robert Reymond is doing the same thing as the Arians of the fourth century and the Jehovah's Witnesses of today do - he is advocating the abandonment of the Chriatian faith.  He is not advocating abandoning the same parts of Nicene trinitarianism as the Arians did, but that does not make his abandonment of other vital parts of this essential doctrine any less serious.<br />I find it very sad and disturbing that so many people here have given this book such glowing reviews.  It indicates a terrible ignorance of the orthodox doctrine of the Trinity on the part of those who have recommended it.  The same people who would notice the slightest deviation from the traditional Calvinist doctrine of election do not even seem to notice a major deviation from a doctrine that is far more fundamental to the Christian faith.	2001-03-09
US	51762070	R2Y4YZZ9841X1E	046508138X	549201674	Basic Economics:  A Citizen's Guide to the Economy	Books	5	56	58	N	N	I wish	I wish there were some way to get this book into the hands of every household in America.  Someone with the means should fund that project.<br />The amazing thing is that what Sowell says throughout this book should need saying.  Much of what he says is patently self-evident to anyone not blinded by idelogical prejudices.  We should not have to continue repeating the mistakes of the past (and present).  <br />Sowell, in his own inimitable style, discusses clearly and concisely all of the basic issues involved in economics.  Probably the most important thing he says repeatedly is that economic plans should NOT be evaluateed on the basis of their purported goals.  Instead, they should be evaluated on the basis of the incentives they will create.  It is a failure to take into account these incentives that explain why so many good intentions have resulted in complete and utter failure.  Incentives, not intentions, are what count.<br />If you want to know why the common analyses of the ecomomy and the common suggestions for improvement that are promoted by politicians, pundits, and professional news anchors are misguided and counter-productive, read this book.	2001-02-06
US	51762070	R377BK4C6HXZCI	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Outstanding	Although I was slightly exasperated that this book came out before the final volume of the ongoing Christopher Snow trilogy (Fear Nothing; Sieze the Night), which I have enjoyed immensely, I must say that it is one of the top four or five Koontz novels written thus far.<br />Leave it to Dean Koontz to create a fiction story based on the bizarre oddities of quantum physics.  Although many other authors who attempted this would surely wind up creating a mess, Koontz creates an interesting and compelling story.  In fact, once you are about 100 pages from the end, it becomes physically impossible to stop reading.  <br />As in several other of his novels, this story is an intricate intertwining of several individual stories that ultimately come together in the end.  In this case, however, the interlocking stories actually lend support to the overall (quantum) theme of the book.  <br />Enoch &quot;Junior&quot; Cain is one of the most twisted, self-deluded Koontz villians since Roy Miro (Dark Rivers of the Heart).  Junior, the pathologically vain and self-centered result of reading a few too many idiotic self-help books, is on a quest to find someone named Bartholomew, and he isn't exactly sure why.  Standing in his way are first of all, Tom Vanadium, a mysterious ex-priest turned homicide detective - who suspects Junior murdered his own wife; second, Agnes - the resourceful and strong mother of the child prodigy Bartholomew; and finally Junior's own extreme and humiliating physical reactions to his own ever increasing violence.  Note: The descriptions of Junior's flattering self-assessments alone are almost worth the price of the book.  Koontz has a wickedly biting sense of humor, and I laughed so hard several times that my stomach hurt.  Having worked in a bookstore that sold numerous inane self-help books, I recognize character traits of Junior in a lot of people I have met.  Hopefully, I'll never meet anybody with all of his character traits.<br />Bartholomew and his mother Agnes are the heart of optimism in a world that can sometimes be amazingly violent and cruel.  The descriptions of their reactions to discovering his eye cancer and the subsequent surgery to remove his eyes are extremely moving.  Their love for each other is obvious, and her generosity towards strangers is inspiring.  As the sermon (yes, sermon) that ties this book together indicates, every act of kindness sends ripples outward that affect countless others in unknown ways.<br />Self-help or other-help.  Hmmmm?  I think we could use a few more Agneses and a few less Juniors.<br />Kudos Dean.  Now...I'm still waiting for Christopher Snow, Orson, and Mungojerrie.	2000-12-31
US	51762070	R1Q4UAJNV4YS0G	0684836696	770654209	Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America	Books	4	61	68	N	N	Cautiously Hopeful	Despite its title, McWhorter's book is really rather optimistic and hopeful in tone.  He believes that a growing number of blacks are abandoning the self-destructive ideas that are being nurtured in the black community, specifically: victimology, separatism, and anti-intellectualism.<br />I suspect that many of the reviews of this book will be knee-jerk reactions rather than reasoned responses.  Many will refuse to read the book at all.  That is a sad shame, for even if one disagrees with some of his conclusions, his book is well worth reading and thinking about.<br />It seems today that the vocal elements of black culture have become subdivided into three main categories.<br />In the first category are those like Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton who want to pretend that things are not much different today than they were in 1960 or 1950 - or that they are worse (They say this while dressed in $500 suits and eating caviar).  These people look for every opportunity to scream racism and are the target of much of McWhorter's book.  Unfortunately they fail to take into account that their actions result in a black community that cannot rid itself of being perceived as somehow inferior.  They can do nothing else when they consistently insist that blacks aren't up to the same intellectual standards as whites and others, and that all blacks still need affirmative action based school admissions - which is nothing more than the educational equivalent of the special olympics.  Blacks need to stop letting these self-appointed leaders shout out to the world that blacks are mildly retarded.  <br />In the second category are the ultra-violent hate filled groups like the new Black Panther party, and certain segments of the Black Muslim movement.  This group feeds on the failures caused by the first group and nurtures hatred and violence towards whites, jews, asians and others.  These men and women should be dealt with as the criminals they are.  They are no different than the KKK or the Aryan Nation.  <br />The third group according to McWhorter is a growing segment of the black population that wants to realize Martin Luther King's dream to the fullest.  These men and women have realized that while affirmative action may have been useful for a while and may still be useful in certain limited (income-based), and temporary situations, it is no longer justified as an across the board permanent solution.  These men and women realize that blacks have the same average native intelligence as whites, hispanics, and asians and that if the standards were the same, they could prove it.  <br />I hope that McWhorter is correct and that more and more blacks will decide they no longer want to be portrayed as inherently inferior &quot;special olympians&quot; by the established politically correct black leadership - the Jesse Jacksons, Al Sharptons, and NAACPs of the world.  I hope that most will decide that the alternative proposed by McWhorter and other great black leaders and intellectuals like Thomas Sowell is the path to follow and that they will thoroughly reject the bigoted hate-filled bile of the new black panther party.  McWhorter is right that blacks are not that far from Martin Luther King's mountaintop.  The problem now is no longer external white opposition, but internal fear and self-doubt imposed on them by unfortunate circumstances and opportunistic &quot;leaders.&quot;  It's time for black and white and hispanic and asian to stand side by side as the equals they are and to help each other as the human beings they are.<br />The first step for those who aren't sure how to do this would be take this book and read it - not once, but several times.  <br />My hat's off to you John McWhorter for picking up the torch of MLK that has been ignored for too long, for calling everyone out of the mud and back to the pathway that leads to the mountaintop.	2000-12-29
US	51762070	RYYS01VBD4LQ4	9991974601	302349316	Foundations of Christian Scholarship	Books	4	31	31	N	N	Some outstanding chapters	This book is a collection of chapters addressing specific academic disciplines from a Van Tillian viewpoint.  The contents include the following:<br />PART ONE - EPISTEMOLOGICAL CRITICISM<br />Chapter 1 - The Epistemological Crisis of American Universities - by Gary North<br />Chapter 2 - The Quest for Common Ground - by Rousas Rushdoony<br />PART TWO - ACADEMIC DISCIPLINES<br />Chapter 3 - Psychology - by Rousas Rushdoony<br />Chapter 4 - History - by C. Gregg Singer<br />Chapter 5 - Economics - by Gary North<br />Chapter 6 - Education - by William Blake<br />Chapter 7 - Political Science - by Lawrence Pratt<br />Chapter 8 - Sociology - by Gary North<br />Chapter 9 - Mathematics - by Vern Poythress<br />PART THREE - FOUNDATIONS FOR CHRISTIAN RECONSTRUCTION<br />Chapter 10 - Apologetics - Greg Bahnsen<br />Chapter 11 - Philosophy - Greg Bahnsen<br />Chapter 12 - Theology - John Frame<br />All of the chapters are interesting, and should be read by those who are trying to understand how a Christian should approach seeming &quot;neutral&quot; topics like mathematics.<br />The article by Greg Bahnsen on apologetics is a classic.  It is probably the single clearest introduction to the presuppositional approach to apologetics available anywhere.  It alone is worth the price of the book.	2000-09-28
US	51762070	R3V0DUL3SHD6WQ	0875522653	895854771	Lord of the Saved: Getting to the Heart of the Lordship Debate	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Great Contribution to the Debate	Dr. Gentry has done the church a great service by providing this clear and  concise explanation of the Lordship salvation controversy.  Sadly, many  well meaning Christians have been persuaded of a view of salvation that is  utterly contrary to Scripture and really has no other name than  antinomianism.  What is inexcusable is that many of the proponents of this  system of theology speak and write as if it were the teaching of the  Protestant Reformers.  Usually this is accomplished by taking sentences  here and there out of context and twisting their meaning.  These men count  on the trust of their readers, for if their readers ever bother to read the  Protestant Reformers for themselves they will see immediately that what is  being attributed to them is not what they taught.  One will search in vain  to find Luther or Calvin saying that a Christian can become an atheist and  still be saved.  (Yet Zane Hodges says this in his book Absolutely Free!).   <br />These men have so misinterpreted the Protestant slogan of sola fide (by  faith alone) that it is unrecognizable.  For Hodges salvation entails  little more (if any more) than assenting to the truthfulness of several  historical propositions.  Luther said salvation was by faith alone, but  that faith had to be a &quot;living faith.&quot;  If the faith didn't  produce fruits of righteoyusness - it wasn't true faith.  In other words,  although justification must be distinguished from sanctification, it cannot  be separated.  Hodges and Ryrie would have unsuspecting men and women  believe that one can have justification without sanctification.  This is a  lie (Hebrews 12:14; James 2:14-26).  <br />John MacArthur did a fine job  exposing the faulty theology and exegesis of these men like Zane Hodges and  Charles Ryrie in his two books &quot;The Gospel According to Jesus&quot;  and &quot;Faith Works.&quot;  Michael Horton edited another helpful volume  entitled &quot;Christ the Lord.&quot;  Now Gentry has summarized the basic  arguments in &quot;Lord of the Saved.&quot;  For those interested in a good  introduction to the issues, this is as good a place as any to start.	2000-08-24
US	51762070	R1R72D3NFOJOKV	0060675381	129713446	Here I Stand: My Struggle for a Christianity of Integrity, Love, and Equality	Books	1	24	51	N	N	Egocentricity incarnate.	It starts on the cover.  Spong is egocentric enough to think his life and work will have the influence of a Luther.  This is simply not going to happen.  Spong is simply a flash in the pan, and he will be lucky if he is  even a footnote in the history of Western culture much less in a history of  the Church.<br />Spong is popular because he preaches what people want to hear  anyway.  That takes no courage or conviction.  He is praised for taking  such a strong moral stand when he is simply parroting whatever happens to  be the politically correct fad of the week.<br />Spong is praised for his  &quot;brilliant&quot; attacks on traditional Christianity, but the people  who praise him - while pretending to be such intelligent and enlightened  folks - have obviously never read any of the in depth scholarly rebuttals  of Spong's seriously faulty scholarship (e.g. Spong repeatedly cites his  own earlier works to substantiate points made in later works - &quot;This  is true because I said so.&quot;) by men such as N.T. Wright (who is a long  way from being a fundamentalist BTW).<br />Anybody can make an argument sound  good - especially when that person is taking the popular position and when  people don't even bother to become acquainted with the volumes of real  scholarship that has demolished the argument in question.  Ironically,  these same people who only read one side of the argument are always  accusing traditionalists of being the obscurantists.  Funny thing is - it's  the liberal wing that has become the obscurantist wing in our  generation.<br />Spong is one of many people who has a vastly overinflated  sense of his own importance, and this autobiography is nothing but more  straining to pat himself on the back.	2000-07-13
US	51762070	R2DIGI8MHOTSTK	0962131164	75578645	Shattering the Left Behind Delusion	Books	1	8	17	N	N	Frying Pan or Fire?	In this book, Mr. Noe rightly takes to task the shoddy theology being  promulgated through the best-selling LEFT BEHIND series by Jenkins and  LaHaye.<br />Unfortunately the alternative he offers to replace shoddy  theology is heretical theology.  Noe advocates something called  hyper-preterism (although advocates themselves usually prefer the term  preterism, or full-preterism).  Hyper-Preterism teaches that all of the  following occurred in AD 70 - the second and final coming of Christ; the  general resurrection; the final judgment; the removal of the Adamic curse;  the final destruction of sin and death and Satan.<br />Needless to say, it  doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that all of this is nonsense,  but like Christian Scientists before them (who deny the reality of  sickness), they have managed to convince quite a few people.  You will even  find full-page ads for Noe's books in mainstream Christian magazines.  So  despite the fact that the theology sounds ridiculous and is ridiculous,  there a lot of believers out there with a virtually non-existent level of  discernment.  They are the targets of these deceivers masquerading as men  of God.<br />The LEFT BEHIND books by LaHaye and Jenkins do represent shoddy  theology, but at least it is Christian.  That much cannot be said for Noe's  hyper-preterist theology.  It is a counterfeit Christianity.	2000-07-08
US	51762070	R2JW00Q4DEK2GA	0962131148	150156688	Beyond the End Times: The Rest of the Greatest Story Ever Told	Books	1	11	25	N	N	Just say &quot;No&quot; to Noe	Noe's book is a poorly written and poorly argued defense of the newest and probably the silliest heresy modern &quot;evangelicals&quot; have managed to invent in quite some time.<br />The book is a &quot;defense&quot; of the  so-called hyper-preterist doctrine - doctrine which teaches that in AD 70  all of the following occurred: the second coming of Jesus, the general  resurrection and rapture, the final judgment, the removal of the Adamic  curse, the destruction of sin, death and Satan, and so on, ad  nauseum.<br />This doctrine would be just a good punchline for a joke, but  apparently evangelicalism has reached such a low point of discernment and  basic intelligence that even nonsense like this can gain a hearing (the  book is advertised in major evangelical magazines).  <br />Benny Hinn teaches  a 9 person &quot;trinity;&quot; Rodney Howard Browne teaches &quot;holy  laughter;&quot; and now we have folks running around telling us that for  the last 1900 years there has been no more pain, no more death, no more  crying.  Sheesh.  I hear strains of the &quot;Deliverance&quot; theme song  running through my head...<br />The only question this book raises in my mind  is the question of exactly how gullible evangelicals really are.	2000-07-05
US	51762070	R159GPN6SJ7382	1885767536	188235684	The End of All Things: A Defense of the Future	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Good Book	Mr. Seraiah has done the church a great service by writing this book and demonstrating the blatantly unbiblical nature of hyper-preterism.<br />I hope his book receives a wide hearing.	2000-07-02
US	51762070	R1EOSO2MDN5P24	1879737434	350819627	The Potter's Freedom: A Defense of the Reformation and the Rebuttal of Norman Geisler's Chosen But Free	Books	5	11	18	N	N	White 1; Geisler 0	White's book THE POTTER'S FREEDOM leaves Geisler with no excuses.  The numerous fallacies and outright misrepresentations in Geisler's book have been exposed for all the world to see. <br />In addition, White has done a  masterful job of presenting the Reformed faith for those who are interested  in knowing what it really is.	2000-06-20
US	51762070	R2W9W2U54SONYL	0879305738	599701068	The Bass Player Book:  Equipment, Technique, Styles & Artists	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Very Useful and Helpful	Karl Coryat's THE BASS PLAYER BOOK is a collection of some of the most helpful articles from Bass Player magazine's first ten years.  It is well organized and informative.  It contains materials that should prove helpful  for beginners, intermediate level players, and 4 string veterans.<br />Part  One contains 15 chapters on Playing the Bass.  It covers everything from  what to do when you string up your very first bass, to basic theory, to  requirements of the working bassist.<br />Part Two covers equipment in 11  chapters.  Here you find informative chapters on how to buy a bass  (electric and acoustic), installing strings, setup, amps and effects,  uprights, and recording among others.<br />Part Three includes chapters on 8  of the greatest bass innovators from james Jamerson (of Motown fame) to  Jaco, Flea, and Michael Manring.  [One shortcoming to be noted - you CANNOT  have a section on bass innovators and leave out Victor Wooten of Bela Fleck  and the Flecktones].<br />Finally there is a chapter discussing 30 albums  every bassist MUST own.  Although there some on the list with which any of  us would disagree, and others which we would say should have been included,  the choice isn't bad.  A wide variety of music is represented from reggae  to jazz, from country to funk, from blues to latino, from rock to fusion.   And Victor's album A SHOW OF HANDS is included here.  <br />For an  intermediate level player like myself, there was plenty of helpful and  inspiring chapters.  I know there are chapters that would have been helpful  when I first started, and I can imagine that there is plenty here to please  even the virtuosos among us.	2000-06-11
US	51762070	R3V42S9MC1IBIG	0764221981	659539617	Chosen but Free	Books	1	17	34	N	N	Geisler's Bluff has Been Called	Norman Geisler has been getting away with misrepresenting Calvinism for decades.  But now because of the utter scholarly incopetence of his book CHOSEN BUT FREE, he has become the laughingstock of the evangelical scholarly community.  The free ride is over for Geisler.<br />This book cannot  be described as anything but awful.  It has theological, historical,  philosophical and logical errors on virtually every page that numerous  scholarly reviews have painstakingly pointed out.  The reviewers on Amazon  who gave it good reviews are either ignorant of what Calvinism is or don't  care to know the facts.  Unfortunately bearing false witness (which is what  Geisler repeatedly does) is still a sin.<br />Geisler apparently thought that  he could pull the wool over everyone's eyes again, but not this time.  Dr.  James R. White has called Geisler's bluff and written an absolutely  devastating response to CHOSEN BUT FREE.  White's book is titled THE  POTTER'S FREEDOM: A DEFENSE OF THE REFORMATION AND A REBUTTAL OF NORMAN  GEISLER'S CHOSEN BUT FREE.  It is available from Amazon.com, and I would  urge anyone who has even come close to considering Geisler's arguments to  be valid to read White's response.  REMEMBER PROVERBS 18:17.<br />It is  interesting to note that Geisler's book comes with no endorsements.   White's book has been recognized as a devastating critique of Geisler even  by men such as Dr. Erwin Lutzer, Senior Pastor of Moody Church and Daniel  Wallace, Professor of NT Studies at Dallas Theological Seminary - neither  are bastions of Calvinism.  The list of endorsements White has received  continues to grow daily.  Many of the endorsements are included in the book  itself, and all are included at his apologetics Website - Alpha and Omega  Ministries.  <br />Geisler made a mistake because he has destroyed his  intellectual reputation with this book.  And now the entire evangelical  scholarly world knows it (even if many of the laymen don't).<br />Calvinists  would urge you to read Geisler's book by all means.  But they would request  that you also read White's.  It is only fair to hear both sides.  You  cannot make an informed decision without hearing both sides of the case.   By 'em both from Amazon, they'll appreciate that :^)<br />Truth has nothing to  fear, but Geisler's position does.  The man owes the Reformed community an  apology for a book that amounts to not much more than ( ).	2000-06-11
US	51762070	R1B9PXKZP1JR1A	042517400X	429018375	Night Moves (Tom Clancy's Net Force, Book 3)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	What's the motive?	After reading the first two books in the NetForce series, I was looking  forward to this book.  I was rather disappointed for two main  reasons.<br />First, the entire book deals with a genius hacker who is  wreaking havoc all over the world.  The problem is that Clancy never tells  the reader exactly why the hacker is doing this.  We are presented with an  extremely wealthy and obnoxious Englishman who is presented as being  nostalgic for the good ol' days of the British Empire.  He is financing a  genius computer whiz who is taking out communications satellites, airline  and train computers, etc. causing hundreds, if not thousands of deaths, but  that's it.  We're told what they are doing, but never told why they are  trying to destroy the world's computer infrastructure.  A man doesn't spend  hundreds of millions of dollars to build a super computer that can break  any encrypted code and cause such trouble just for the heck of it.  He has  to have a reason.  Not being given a reason was aggravating.<br />Second, I  understand the need for the personal relationship struggles between Alex  and Toni.  Real people wrestle with personal relationships even if they are  battling mad hackers in virtual reality Wonderland.  On the other hand,  this type of novel does not need to turn into a Harlequin Romance Series,  and by the end of the book, it was getting close.  <br />If Clancy can get  back to the point of the series, and have the NetForce fighting computer  terrorists with an actual motive for what they are doing, it will be a  great relief. <br />I usually save my books for later reading.  I read this  one on a cruise and just donated it to the ship's library.  It isn't good  for much unless you are interested in following the ups and downs of Alex  and Toni's love life.	2000-05-29
US	51762070	R3RQG8PW0DT0H4	1850754055	176185398	On the Cessation of the Charismata: The Protestant Polemic on Postbiblical Miracles (Journal of Pentecostal Theology Supplement Series, 3)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Outstanding	Ruthven has presented an outstanding response to the argument set forth in B.B. Warfield's early 20th century classic &quot;Counterfeit Miracles.&quot;  <br />Thiose interested in the cessationist debate would do well to read Warfield's book along with Ruthven's more than competent  response.	2000-05-03
US	51762070	R1LA1MU992QWTL	085151166X	806524226	Counterfeit Miracles	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Classic Argument	In &quot;Counterfeit Miracles&quot; B.B. Warfield makes a persuasive case for the cessation of miralcles after the time of the apostles.  The book is well written and cogently argued, and I would highly recommend it.  For those wanting to read a good response to Warfield's thesis, I would also  recommend Jon Ruthven's &quot;On the Cessation of the Charismata.&quot;	2000-05-03
US	51762070	R3GWH5MD935OYG	1570752494	548654142	The Chair of Saint Peter: A History of the Papacy	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Good overview of the history of the Papacy	William La Due's history of the papacy is an enlightening read.  Because it deals honestly with both the good and the bad in that history it will not appeal to those who have a particular axe to grind.  It will not appeal  to fundamentalist Protestants who want to demonize the Pope, nor will it  appeal to modern obscurantist Roman Catholics who tend to gloss over  significant historical details in their ongoing historical revisionism.  La  Due has done the Roman Catholic Church a favor by being honest with the  historical evidence.  <br />In an irenic and scholarly manner, La Due examines  the development of the papacy from the first century up to today.  He  places the Popes in their historical context and reveals how quite often  the development of the papacy was more the result of political and economic  factors than any theological or ecclesiastical concerns.<br />An excellent  piece of historical research.	2000-04-11
US	51762070	RP55N6JTLSVR7	9004088849	768889996	Origins of Papal Infallibility, 1150-1350: A Study on the Concepts of Infallibility, Sovereignty and Tradition in the Middle Ages (Studies in the H)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Incredible Scholarship	Brian Tierney has produced an outstanding piece of historical scholarship in \\"Origins of Papal Infallibility.\\" The work is an exhaustive and meticulous examination of the origins of the modern Roman Catholic doctrine of papal infallibility. <br />Tierney leaves no stone unturned in his research. He demonstrates conclusively that this doctrine originated in the 12th-14th century controversies between the Popes and the Franciscans. Ironically, it was opponents of the Pope who first suggested the idea and it was immediately condemned by the Pope. Later when it was realized that the doctrine could serve the purposes of the pope the papal opinion of the doctrine changed.<br />This book is not an easy read, but it is a fascinating study for those willing to invest the time and effort.<br /> (...)The second edition of his book (the one available here) includes an appendix discussing the handful of published critiques and demonstrating why they all fail.  As the Jesuit scholar Luis Bermejo said in his 1992 book, INFALLIBILITY ON TRIAL, no Roman Catholic scholar (...) has really adequately responded to Tierney yet.	2000-04-11
US	51762070	RB5KAE5IFL7GK	0801077257	721529199	Parousia: The New Testament Doctrine of Our Lord's Second Coming	Books	1	17	50	N	N	Will Baker be publishing Jehovah's Winess literature next?	In this work J.S. Russell, like thousands upon thousands before him, attempts to demonstrate that he has found some long lost key to biblical interpretation.  Like the preacher said, &quot;There is nothing new under  the sun.&quot;  Just like liberals, many so-called evangelicals, want to  throw out the witness of the Holy Spirit to God's people through the ages  because they arrogantly think they can come to God's word free of bias.   And all they end up doing is creating another in a long list of  pseudo-Christian doctrines.<br />In Russell's case, his new version of  &quot;Christianity&quot; is a total &quot;preterist&quot; interpretation of  Scripture.  According to this view, Christ has already returned in A.D. 70;  Satan has already been cast into the lake of fire; the final judgment has  already occurred; the final resurrection has already occurred; sin, death  and sickness have been done away with; and we are in the new heavens and  new earth.  It just doesn't get any better than this.<br />The sad thing is  that this nonsense is gaining popularity among people disillusioned with  the never ending false prophecies of the dispensationalist doomsayers.   Even sadder is the fact that prominent evangelicals like R.C. Sproul  endorsed this book, even though he - Sproul - doesn't accept all of the  conclusions.<br />If you want the opportunity to be blown about by the latest  fad, the latest novel wind of doctrine, then by all means read Russell's  book.  <br />If, on the other hand, you do not wish to deny the perspicuous  teaching of Scripture confessed by Christ's flock for 2000 years; if you  desire to stand firm in the faith handed down by Christ to His apostles  once and for all then you should probably just ignore this latest  theological novelty gag.  <br />Sure, Russell's work may LOOK impressive.   It's thick.  It cites lots of Scripture.  Just remember,you can find books  exactly like that for every heresy that has ever been created in the  imaginationof man.  I can show you books just as thick, with as many  Scripture references or more, for unitarianism, universalism, pelagianism,  etc.  Don't be fooled by lots of Scripture references.  Everybody claims  Scripture.  Any man can take a Bible, throw away the ancient Christian  faith, and create his own interpretation.  All Russell and the others do is  substitute their individual interpretational grid for the Christian grid.   The Christian grid is the common core doctrine confessed by all Christians  since the first century (found in summary written form in the Apostles'  Creed and the Nicene Creed).  And this common core doctrine confessed from  the beginning includes the visible bodily return of Christ, the bodily  resurrection of all men, and the day of judgment at the end of the present  age.  Those doctrines (like the doctrine of the Trinity and deity of  Christ) are simply part of what it means to be Christian BY  DEFINITION.<br />Russell and others who have adopted his apostasy like to  trumpet the slogan &quot;sola scriptura&quot;, yet they deny a fundamental  tenet of sola scriptura - the perspicuity or clarity of Scripture - every  time they open their mouths.  If their doctrine is really taught in the  perspicuous Scripture, why is it just now being discovered?  Why is it that  every Christian writer from the first century onward refers to these events  as future?  Are the Scriptures really so unclear (a denial of sola  scriptura) that it took 1900 years to find this doctrine?  They claim Sola  Scriptura, but their words prove their claim to be a lie.<br />The claims of  the total preterists can be persuasive if you accept their premise that  Scripture has no Christian context in which it is to be interpreted.  The  Church, however, began at Pentecost (@ A.D. 30).  The first books of the  New Testament weren't written until the mid to late 40s, and most were  written 15-20 years after that.  When you remember that Scripture was  written in and to a community of believers who had been taught a common  confession by the apostles for decades, a community who had been confessing  this common doctrine at their baptism for decades, then you realize that  Scripture was a possession of this community and that it would have to be  interpreted according to the doctrinal grid the apostles taught them.  This  doctrinal grid, or rule of faith, is referred to in the earliest Christian  writings.  One of the earliest written forms is the Old Roman Creed - a  precursor to the Apostles' Creed.  In any case this common apostolic core  doctrine was the confession of the entire Christian church.  Scripture was  given to this Church, and it was not to be interpreted according to another  grid.<br />Total preterists, like every other heretical group, claim to be  teaching nothing but Scripture.  But Scripture is not the plaything of  unemployed Internet theologians.  The correct interpretational grid for  Scripture is not found by asking someone who admittedly rejects the common  confession of the Church to whom Scripture was given.  It is found by going  to that Church.<br />Russell and his total preterist heirs (Max King, Ed  Stevens, John Noe, Ward Fenley, Walt Hibbard, Don Preston, Kenneth Davies,  Kelly Birks, etc.) have taken it upon themselves to offer an alternative  Christianity, which is no Christianity, to an evangelicalism too void of  discernment to know the difference.  Christ told us there would be wolves  in sheeps clothing, false Christs, and false apostles among us.  And these  men are living proof that Christ was correct.  <br />Scripture tells us not to  receive men such as this who do not abide in the doctrine of Christ (II  John 10-11).<br />Russell's book is good for educational purposes, for  learning how one man can deceive many.  It serves no useful purpose for  those who desire to learn anything about the Christian faith.	2000-04-01
US	51762070	R3R0IIFLJR7SLO	080101171X	755579774	The Last Days According to Jesus	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Interesting Book	R.C. Sproul's book \\"The Last Days According to Jesus\\" is an interesting examination of the preterist view of the OLivet Discourse.  It interacts especially with the works of J.S. Russell and Kenneth Gentry.	1999-12-23
US	51762070	R1VXBIFHQQ3ZR5	0898707234	479705252	Upon This Rock: St. Peter and the Primacy of Rome in Scripture and the Early Church (Modern Apologetics Library)	Books	3	69	120	N	N	Close but no cigar	Stephen K. Ray has done an admirable job of putting together this apologetic for the papacy.  If someone were not well read in the fathers and in early church history he might even find Ray's case convincing.  It  is quite simply one of the best defenses of Roman Catholic distinctives  that I have seen.  <br />Unfortunately the book does have flaws.  Part of the  problem, for example, is that Ray spends over 100 pages at the beginning of  the book defending a proposition that all but the most fanatical  anti-Catholics would grant: that Peter ministered and died in Rome.  The  Orthodox do not deny this fact.  Most Protestants do not deny this fact.   So what is Ray doing and why?  He's softening up the unwary reader by  toppling a rather flimsy strawman defended only by radically anti-Catholic  fundamentalists.  After 100 pages, the unsuspecting reader will be  wondering how anybody could be ignorant enough to disagree with Rome's  position.  So after spending 100 pages defending a view that is almost  universally held anyway and getting the reader ready, he jumps right into  the really controversial material.  <br />The remainder of the book  essentially consists of commentary on the writings of early church fathers.   (One technical complaint about the formatting - The main text is nothing  but quotations from the fathers.  All of the commentary is in the  footnotes.  To follow the argument, the reader must constantly be flipping  back and forth between pages.  This gets aggravating.)  The commentary  section is the heart of the book.  The problem here, however, is that most  (not all) of the evidence provided in this section is dramatically  overstated.  The evidence from Clement, Ignatius and Hermas, for example,  exists more in the mind of the author than in the texts themselves as any  cursory study of recent patristic scholarship will show.  Numerous  assertions are made about these documents without any real supporting  arguments.<br />The evidence from laterfathers in the book is more of a mixed  bag simply because in later centuries, the Bishop of Rome did gradually  begin to assert more authority than he originally had, and of course some  of the fathers agreed.  What Catholic apologists like Ray continue to  successfully do is something of a bait and switch tactic which many readers  do not catch.  They find evidence for Roman primacy in the fathers and then  argue that these fathers taught Roman supremacy.  Primacy magically becomes  supremacy.  A primacy of honor as first among equals (which did exist  early) is simply not the same thing as a supremacy of jurisdiction (which  developed much later).  Read Ray with that distinction in mind and watch  his hands to see how many times he makes the switch.  You'll be  surprised.<br />It must also be briefly noted that Ray does a fine job of  demonstrating that a number of early fathers interpreted Matthew 16:18 as  Rome now does.  He fails to mention, however, that Eastern Orthodox  scholars and Protestant scholars have also amassed lists of patristic  quotations by fathers who did not interpret Matthew 16:18 as Rome now does.   There simply is no historical evidence for a consensus of interpretation  on that passage.  Some interpreted the rock to be Peter.  Some interpreted  it to be Christ.  Some interpreted it to be Peter's faith.  The Catholic  apologists apparently do not wish their readers to be aware of this easily  verifiable fact.  <br />My suggestion would be for anyone who has read Ray's  book and who thinks it conclusively proves his thesis to also read William  La Due's &quot;The Chair of Saint Peter: A History of the Papacy&quot; and  some of the works by historian Brian Tierney, especially &quot;Origins of  Papal Infallibility: 1150-1350&quot; an absolutely outstanding and  exhaustive scholarly study of the origins of the doctrine of papal  infallibility in the late 12th century.  I would also highly recommend the  book &quot;Two Paths: Papal Monarchy orCollegial Tradition&quot; by the  Eastern Orthodox author Michael Whelton.  Another good Orthodox study of  the issue is &quot;The Primacy of Peter&quot; edited by John Meyendorff.   <br />Ray presents a good case, but he doesn't present both sides of the case.   It's up to those who really desire to know the truth of the matter to  check out both sides.  <br />Proverbs 18:17	1999-12-18
US	51762070	R237F819V19HV3	0830817573	172255665	The Millennial Maze: Sorting Out Evangelical Options	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Fairest Overview of the Issue Available	Grenz has accomplished the impossible in this small volume.  He has become one of the first authors to present the different perspectives on this debate in a fair and even-handed manner.  Typically in books on  eschatology, opposing viewpoints are caricatured rather than described and  mocked rather than carefully criticized.  Grenz avoids all of this  nonsense.<br />In the first chapter he introduces the Biblical background of  apocalyptic literature which frames the whole debate.  In chapter two, he  presents an overview of millennarianism in the history of the church.  The  following four chapters deal with postmillennialism, dispensationalism,  historic premillennialism and amillennialism respectively.  The seventh  chapter asks the question, &quot;So what?&quot; by dealing with the  significance of the whole debate.  The book concludes with a chapter  explaining how eschatology should shape us here and now.<br />This book and  the Counterpoints volume edited by Darrell Bock &quot;Three Views of the  Millennium and Beyond&quot; are the two must read books for those desiring  a good overview and explanation of the millennial debate.	1999-11-25
US	51762070	R2G7IJ9KBYAQ53	0310210801	413714125	Four Views on the Book of Revelation	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Needed Counter-Responses	One of the best features in most of the Counterpoints volumes is the debate format.  After each paper the other authors are allowed to critique it, and (in some Counterpoints volumes) sometimes the main author is  allowed to respond to the critiques.<br />I was disappointed that this volume  did not incorporate the debate format.  Each author presents his paper, and  that is that.  There is very little interaction with the other  authors.<br />The strength of the individual papers varied.  Gentry did a good  job defending the preterist approach.  Hamstra did a good job convincing me  that the idealist view is less a hermeneutical approach than it is an  application of the text.  Pate needed to explain exactly what it is that  makes the progressive dispensationalist view distinctive.  Thomas didn't  say anything new in his presentation of the classical dispensationalist  view.<br />The book would have been far better if it had presented the four  views that have been predominant historically: the Futurist, Preterist,  Historicist and Idealist views.  They ignored the historicist view  altogether and instead presented two slightly different futurist  views.<br />In my opinion the senior editor at Zoindervan needs to call for  some kind of consistency in the Counterpoints series.  Either include  responses in all the volumes, or don't.	1999-11-17
US	51762070	R25MXYPIRNLHVZ	188884843X	376743357	Vanished into Thin Air: The Hope of Every Believer	Books	1	15	34	N	N	Vanished Into Thin Air: The Fate of Every Lindsey Prophecy	More of the same tripe Lindsey has been pushing in book after book after book for 30 years.  I remember one of the last sentences in his first major bestseller &quot;The Late Great Planet Earth.&quot;  He essentially said  (in 1970) &quot;I wouldn't make any long-term plans if I were you.&quot;   Hmmmmmm.  I wonder how many people followed that ill-advised suggestion and  ignored school, career training, investing, etc.  It doesn't amaze me that  Lindsey continues to write these false predictions.  He makes a lot of  money from it.  What is amazing is that so many people continue to take him  seriously.	1999-11-09
US	51762070	RU9LFLIUNAPDL	0140174257	16480950	Creation Revisited: The Origin of Space, Time and the Universe (Penguin Science)	Books	1	9	49	N	N	How many logical fallacies can fit in one book?	Rather than point out all of the logical absurdities and contradictions(which this forum doesn't provide space for anyway), let me direct you to a response by Oxford professor Keith Ward.  See his book God,  Chance &amp; Necessity for a respectful, brilliant and humorous dissection  of the incredible number of logical fallacies in Atkins book.  Ward may not  be entirely correct, but he thoroughly demonstrates the problems in Atkins  theory.	1999-06-09
US	51762070	RH0RRR66DEC8M	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fascinating Reading	I try to keep up (as much as a layman can) with the ongoing discussion over evolution.  I found Behe's book to be a fascinating contribution to the issue.  What I find sad is the response of the scientific community.   <br />Rather than intelligent dialogue, we see something more akin to the  Ayatollah's response to Salman Rushdie.  I swear, to hear the reviews and  responses of some of these so-called scientists you'd think somebody raised  an objection to the views of a snake handling fundamentalist deep in the  Appalachians.	1999-05-13
US	51762070	R2UB6N2KALONN7	0684810794	431236317	The Bible Code	Books	1	1	3	N	N	How Stupid Can People Get?	This waste of perfectly good trees is a crock.  Drosnin arrogantly challenged someone to disprove his thesis by finding assassinations in the text of Moby Dick.  Well, a mathemetician did just that.  Just do a web  search for assassinations foretold in moby dick, and see for yourself.	1999-04-28
US	51762070	R2X4WG3QGKR9Z6	0310449510	385348117	Classical Apologetics	Books	1	10	21	N	N	An exhaustively thorough question-begging straw man	Few books fail as spectacularly as &quot;Classical Apologetics&quot; in fulfilling its goal of being a rational defense of the Christian faith as well as a critique of presuppositionalism.  In attempting the first it  merely begs the question.  In attempting the second it builds one of the  most thorough straw man arguments I have seen.<br />As Greg Bahnsen  wrote,<br />Intellectual respect for Biblically-defined Christian faith is not  prevalent in this age. For that reason alone Reformed Christians should  readily welcome any honest effort to clarify and strengthen our method of  defending the faith, as this book aims to do. We need each other's help in  more faithfully practicing the common task of defending the Word of our  common Lord.<br />All three authors of this particular effort in apologetics  are associated with the Ligonier Valley Study Center. They do not indicate  who wrote which sections of the book. Each author advocates Reformed  Christianity, and that perks our interest in their opinions on apologetical  method. Since that issue is so tied to heavy questions in the theory of  knowledge, however, it is also relevant that none of the authors has an  advanced degree in philosophy (and only Gerstner has an earned doctorate at  all - in church history).<br />The authors should be enthusiastically  applauded for insisting that Christian faith is capable of a reasoned  defense. They will not compromise an inch with the destructive idea that  heartfelt faith is without intellectual reasons - or the idea that to be  irrational is a religious virtue. They maintain that God commands believers  to reason with unbelievers, not simply proclaim that they must make a  groundless, subjective choice. This is a sorely needed emphasis today. We  could not agree with it more. On their chosen method of reasoning in  defense of Christianity, though, we must agree much less. We must find it,  actually, contrary to good reasoning.<br />About half of the text of ClassicalApologetics is given to promoting and practicing natural theology, and  about half is given to opposing the presuppositional method as found  specifically in Cornelius Van Til's apologetic. As the book's subtitle  indicates, it purports to be &quot;A Rational Defense of the Christian  Faith and a Critique of Presuppositional Apologetics.&quot; In the end it  succeeds at neither.<br />The book opens by identifying the object of its  apologetical concern: namely, &quot;The Crisis of Secularism&quot; (chap.  1). The central axiom of secularism - and key challenge to Christianity in  our day - is the view that &quot;All possible knowledge is restricted to  the temporal&quot; (p. 7). The book's primary, self-defined task is,  therefore, to refute that view. But it does nothing like that. In fact, the  question is not even raised again in this form.<br />The authors rather try to  deal with it by proving the existence of &quot;God.&quot; But given  secularism's axiom, this is futile. The only things we can know - and hence  prove - are temporal in character. Accordingly, even if the authors prove  the existence of some &quot;first cause&quot; (which we call  &quot;God&quot;), it will necessarily be part of the temporal order of  nature! In short, without analyzing and refuting the presupposition of  secularism about what is knowable, the authors simply beg the question they  set out to answer.<br />Beyond this, there is more than a little philosophical  confusion in the authors' conception and method of proving God's existence.  For instance, to evade the charge of naturalism and the idea that man has  an unaided intrinsic ability to reach a knowledge of God, they hold that  &quot;natural theology&quot; (the human activity of devising proofs for  God's existence) is reflection &quot;dependent upon divine revelation&quot;  (p. 25). But since a &quot;divine revelation&quot; already assumes the  existence of God, the &quot;natural theology&quot; of our authors depends  at the outset on what it is supposed to prove at its conclusion! The  &quot;natural man&quot; using his &quot;natural reason&quot; - for whom the  proofs of natural theology are intended - does not look upon the facts of  nature as a &quot;divine revelation&quot; at all.<br />When the authors go on  and try to demonstrate that the Bible itself endorses &quot;natural  theology,&quot; they are unable to do so, for all the evidence they adduce  pertains rather to &quot;natural revelation.&quot; The Psalmist and Paul  say absolutely nothing about inferences and proofs devised by human  reflection. Our authors seem not to be aware that they ambiguously switch  back and forth between the two concepts of natural revelation and natural  theology. (If space permitted, we might show how their portrayal of natural  &quot;theology&quot; is conceptually unclear to begin with, especially the  notion of inferential reflection upon evidences which is not a complex  theoretical reasoning process: pp. 44, 46.)<br />A concept which has somewhere  been lost by our authors is that of man's total depravity, including the  noetic effects of sin. They tell us that rational apologetics as  &quot;pre-evangelism&quot; can establish the cognitive clarification of  Christianity and bring the natural man to an intellectual assent, but to  take him beyond that to a personal trust in the heart, emotions, and will  is solely the work of the Holy Spirit (pp. 21-22). Scripture teaches  otherwise. The problem with fallen men is not simply in their will and  emotions. They have just as much &quot;become vain in their reasoning&quot;  like fools (Rom. 1:21-22). Will such &quot;natural men&quot; use their  &quot;natural reason&quot; to receive the things of the Spirit? They cannot  (1 Cor. 2:14). In terms of reasoning from nature to God, Paul said this  about the natural man: &quot;There is none that understands; there is none  that seeks after God&quot; (Rom. 3:11). The work of the Holy Spirit is just  as much needed to bring intellectual assent as it is to produce emotional  trust. By suggesting otherwise, our author's conception of apologetics is  untrue to their Reformed theology.<br />Their book on apologetics is flawed by  a number of philosophical lapses as well. When positions taken by  philosophers are represented in the book, they are too often  oversimplified, jumbled, or handled with little more than slogans (rather  than analysis). Their discussion of the (allegedly)  &quot;non-negotiable&quot; and &quot;virtually universal&quot; assumptions  about logic, perception, and causality in the knowing process (pp. 77ff.)  is painfully naive, interacting with none of the modern epistemological  problems surrounding empiricism, induction, or the foundations of science  and logic. For instance, the causal principle is &quot;defended&quot;  against the stringent critique of Hume by replying that it is true by  definition (p. 83)! (Instead of asking whether every &quot;event&quot; has  a cause, they merely assure us that &quot;every effect has a cause&quot; is  analytical.) This does not give the reader confidence in the book's  philosophical discernment.<br />But for our purposes here, let us single out  for examination our authors' cosmological proof of God's existence  according to the &quot;traditional&quot; method of &quot;natural  theology.&quot; They reason: &quot;if something exists now, something  exists necessarily&quot; - &quot;something must have the power of being  within itself&quot; (pp. 115, 118). This line of thinking is logically  fallacious. It does not follow at all from &quot;X exists&quot; that  &quot;It is necessarily true that X exists&quot; (or that &quot;X exists  necessarily&quot;). The reasoning is also unintelligible. Exactly what is  &quot;the power of being&quot;?<br />We get closer to understanding what the  authors are trying to argue when they claim anything that exists must have  a &quot;sufficient reason&quot; (p. 115). The problemis that this  interpretation of their cosmological argument contradicts an earlier  statement of theirs: &quot;we say not that everything has an antecedent  cause but that every effect has an antecedent cause&quot; (p. 111). After  all, as we saw above, the causal principle is simply a definitional truth!  The critical question, therefore, is whether anything that exists (or any  event) is &quot;an effect&quot; or not! There is not force to an argument  that &quot;God&quot; is the &quot;first cause&quot; (or &quot;sufficient  reason&quot;) for the world, unless one first proves that the world is an  &quot;effect.&quot;<br />Why shouldn't the unbeliever simply take the world as  uncaused? After all, the &quot;god&quot; of the cosmological argument does  not need an antecedent cause; why not simply say the same of the world  itself. And even if the things or events in this world are all  &quot;effects&quot; (how would one prove that?), why couldn't there be an  infinite regress of purely natural causes? After all, our experience of  causation is limited to the natural world, so how can we extrapolate beyond  natural experience? The authors have no philosophically adequate answer and  become a study in arbitrariness.<br />The authors claim that an uncaused  molecule could not be contingent, but must exist necessarily and eternally  (p. 119). But why? This is sheer	1999-04-28
US	51762070	R2MB7RXGG91X2H	1878398326	157306364	New Perspectives In Music Theory	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great For Absolute Beginners	This is THE book to recommend to beginning music students who are completely and totally musically illiterate (as I was).  The only knowledge that is assumed of the reader is the ability to count and the knowledge of  the first seven letters of the alphabet.  From that starting point he  guides the reader step by step through key signatures, scales, intervals  and chords.  This is one of the most helpful books I have come across.  I  only wish he'd write a follow up volume taking it to the next level.	1999-04-27
US	51762070	R2LA5G9J18GA61	1888848251	602875127	Planet Earth: The Final Chapter	Books	1	5	12	N	N	Last Days Madness	Another waste of trees by the master of end time Biblical misinterpretation.  I DARE anybody who has read this book and thought it was a good book to read the following three additional titles:<br />Richard  Abanes &quot;End-Time Visions&quot;<br />Richard Kyle &quot;The Last Days are  Here Again&quot;<br />Dwight Wilson &quot;Armageddon Now&quot;	1999-04-20
US	51762070	R26V4OWAPMABY5	0785271767	51831350	Good Morning, Holy Spirit	Books	1	11	18	N	N	Junk Food for the Christian Soul	From the man who brought us the nine person Trinity comes the latest in a long line of spiritual junk food.<br />If you want to read something of substance about the Holy Spirit by an actual Christian read the ancient  classic by St Basil &quot;On the Holy Spirit.&quot;<br />What's next,  &quot;Would you like some fries with that, Holy Spirit?&quot;	1999-04-14
US	51762070	R17D7LHXDWAGVD	0310201438	437778669	Three Views on the Millennium and Beyond	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Good Work	There are a number of books available explaining the differences in the various millennial positions.  This book stands with Grenz's &quot;The Millennial Maze&quot; as one of the better volumes.<br />Bock's concluding  essay on the way in which our presuppositions affect our exegesis is  outstanding.<br />The only weakness is the fact that the authors are not  allowed to respond to the other authors' criticisms.  One Zondervan  Counterpoint volume allowed this, and it was very helpful.  This format  should be incorporated into all of the Counterpoint volumes.	1999-04-14
