US	51764503	R1O2FXYMSDBZ98	0345375564	836091346	Dreadnought: Britain, Germany, and the Coming of the Great War	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Immensely informative and readable	Dreadnought is not a book about battleships, at least not directly about battleships.  Instead, it is a story about events that seem unreal to us today, yet occurred barely a century ago.  This tale of the interactions between England and Germany before the First World War shows quite vividly how great tragedies can arise from misunderstanding, deceit, and arrogance.  Massie does a wonderful job of showing both sides of the argument-not claiming to know which side was correct and which was not.  The image he creates of the German character, however, definitely seems to be a negative one.  The Germans are painted as being overly aggressive, and the Kaiser in particular is shown to be as immature as a child.  There is criticism for the English side as well, but Massie is careful to point out that England was in a far more precarious position than Germany and therefore was more justified in pursuing a strong foreign policy.  The central focus is of course on the race to build Dreadnoughts.  This &quot;first arms race of the twentieth century&quot; is in many ways similar to the Cold War race in nuclear weapons-and equally ruinous.  Though over 900 pages long, Massie never loses the reader's attention, and does such an incredible job of characterizing the protagonists that you find yourself almost talking to them at times.  When finished, the reader truly feels as though he had lived through this period in time, and while they may not understand why things happened-no one will ever be able to rationalize that-they will know what happened and how terrible the results were.	2002-02-03
US	51764503	R37S3946QWD5EE	0141001828	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wish I could give it 6 stars!	Nathaniel Philbrick's &quot;In the Heart of the Sea&quot; is an incredible work of non-fiction that reads like a novel.  Several times throughout the book I found myself in stunned disbelief that these events really took place.  The book is not just the result of a strange historical occurrence, but of a people apart from all others.<br />This book is fascinating not only because it was the first ship to attacked and sunk by whale, but because it is a tale of survival and the strength of the human spirit.  Philbrick is lucky because he is able to draw upon several eye-witness accounts of survivors, unlike other recent sea-disaster books like &quot;The Perfect Storm&quot;.  Through these first hand accounts, the reader can more fully grasp the suffering these men endured.  Not only that, but the author's description of the whaling industry and of life on Nantucket, transports the reader into a bygone era.<br />Surviving three months and 4,500 miles on the open ocean in small, 6-person whaleboats, the men of the Essex experienced something that very few have known, and probably no one will ever experience again.  The book provides a unique insight into this ultimate trial, and any reader will find themselves gripped by the story, unable to put it down until the conclusion is known.  In short, it is an unforgetable adventure and worthy of your time.	2001-09-23
US	51764503	R1IWNG1DA8J9M7	0688042686	780375891	Barbarossa: The Russian-German Conflict, 1941-45	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Exciting military history of the eastern front	In &quot;Barbarossa&quot;, Alan Clark illuminates an aspect is of WW II that is largely overlooked in America--the Eastern Front.  In this work, Clark makes convincing arguments that the Russians could probably have defeated the Germans single-handedly and that Hitler was not the bumbling military fool that most people take him for.  <br />Clark describes in great detail the various strategies adopted by both sides, but it is clear that he has more information on the German command decisions than on the Russians.  This is due primarily to the fact that Russia had not unlocked many of its files at the time he wrote this book.  Clark's main focus is on four events:  The initial invasion and drive to Moscow, the drive and battle for Stalingrad, the Kursk salient operation, and the fall of Berlin.  Throughout it all, Clark debunks the theory of that the German generals could have won the war if Hitler had let them.  In fact, in several cases, Hitler made decisions that most likely saved the German army from disaster.  The second most apparent theme is the resilence of the Russians.  As a student of history, I was amazed by the Russian's ability to overcome one disaster after another and eventually build the most powerful army in the world has ever seen.<br />The one drawback of the book is Clark's attempts to deal with the social and political aspects of the war.  In what is primarily a military history, these discussions seem oddly out of place and are a distraction, but they only constitute a small fraction of the book.  Oh the whole however, it is an excellent book that flows well and illustrates the importance of this &quot;forgotten&quot; front.	2001-09-23
US	51764503	R3RZAUCMLAV3T8	0140096507	169053954	The Price of Admiralty: The Evolution of Naval Warfare from Trafalgar to Midway	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent introduction to Naval history	John Keegan has once again succeeded in writing an exciting, informative, and readable history.  As with &quot;Face of Battle&quot; and &quot;Mask of Command&quot;, &quot;The Price of Admiralty&quot; covers a long period of time, approximately two centuries.  His battle descriptions are unmatched, and his understanding of the subject material--admitedly out of his expertise--is still excellent.<br />Keegan describes the pivotal battles of the four great ages of naval warfare(though the last two occurred simultaneously): Wooden, Ironclad, Aircraft carrier, and Submarine.  He charts how each advance revolutionized naval warfare, and concludes with a debate over the future of war at sea.<br />The book itself is very well written and follows a logical progression.  The only drawback is Keegan's obvious British bias. Granted for most of the time period covered &quot;Britania ruled the waves&quot;, but I felt he did not give due credit to other nation's contributions.  All in all however, it is an excellent book and a must read for anyone interested in naval history or military history in general.	2001-08-22
US	51764503	R3O3KKJB1R95QJ	0060930942	609980992	Three Roads to the Alamo: The Lives and Fortunes of David Crockett, James Bowie, and William Barret Travis	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Amazing	This may be the best history book I have ever read.  It is in the same league as &quot;The Guns of August&quot; and &quot;The Face of Battle&quot;.  Davis illuminates the lives of three of the greatest American heroes--heroes whose lives were previously shrouded in their own glory.  We all know the Davy Crockett played by Fess Parker--the King of the Wild Frontier.  Our images of Jim Bowie and William B. Travis come to us from John Wayne's Alamo rendition.  But these men have no flaws--they are not human.  Davis brings us back to reality by showing that they were simply men of their times.<br />The parallel biography is an excellent vehicle for driving this story, especially, as Davis points out, since the three men in the story represent the three levels of civilization.  You have Crockett, the trail blazer, Bowie, the speculator, and Travis, the settler.  Each has his own unique qualities, and adds a dimension to this tale of Jacksonian America.<br />It is apparent that Davis was bound and determined to correct the myths around these three men, and for the most part he succeeds. He seems to come down unduly hard on Crockett, but then again, Crockett's image needed the most redressing.  However, he does not totally undo the Crockett myth, with his much more heroic description of Davy at the Alamo.  Bowie and Travis are also cut down, but to lesser degrees.  In fact, Davis almost plays down Bowie's land schemes and he is obviously the author's favorite.<br />As for the book itself, it is very readable if somewhat long.  But once you pick it up, you will not want to put it down as Davis brings these men alive, and in the end, you truly feel their loss.  It is a unique story, because as it progresses, it seems these men are invincible--giants in their own age, but we all know how the story ends, and yet still find ourselves wishing something will happen and history will change.  Not many books can accomplish that kind of involvement.  &quot;Three Roads to the Alamo&quot; does.	2001-08-04
US	51764503	RY9BI53Y90PRC	0679730826	306881683	A History of Warfare	Books	5	59	61	N	N	Sweeping in scope, excellent in presentation	The book deserves a place among Keegan's other classics, &quot;The Face of Battle&quot; and &quot;The Mask of Command&quot;.  He has proved once again that he is the preeminent military historian in the world today, perhaps of all time.  Because of the book's daunting scope--covering warfare from prehistoric times to the nuclear age--it is not overly specific.  However, Keegan weaves the story of war with the story of human civilization very nicely, and proves that for most of our history, war has been our primary occupation.  He denounce's Clauswitz' theory that war is merely the continuation of politics by showing it is something much more basic.  War, according to Keegan is cultural.  Wars may be fought for political reasons he says, but the driving force behind them is a nation's/people's culture.  <br />If you do not believe in this theory or are just a big fan of Clauswitz, this book is still a fascinating read because it connects the whole history of war in one relatively slim volume. This is a rare accomplishment, and it provides and excellent base of study for any time period of history.<br />As for presentation, the book is divided into four main parts with interludes between them, discussing the major advances in military technology.  Titled Stone, Flesh, Iron, and Fire, he mainly discusses the advance of weapons from bronze, to iron, to gunpowder, the rise and fall of the horse, and the institution of national armies as major turning points.  The book can drag at some points, but on the whole is a quick read, though you may want to read some parts twice just because there is a lot of information here.  In short this is a must own for any history buff!	2001-08-04
US	51764503	R1NSG8GV55LYJT	0679749896	269467708	Sherman: A Soldier's Passion for Order	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Best treatment of Civil War's greatest general	Sherman: A Soldier's Passion for Order, by John F. Marszalek, is a model biography of possibly the greatest general to emerge from the Civil War.  Marszalek gives a very even-handed account of the general's rise from relative obscurity to command the second largest army in America, becoming a hero to most, and the equivalent of Satan to some in the process.  Unlike Longacre's biography of John Buford, Marszalek did not labor under a shortage of primary information about his subject.  With such a luxury, Marszalek follows the development of Sherman the man, and shows how particular events shaped his future views on warfare and towards the South.  Most notably, the author points out his experience in the Seminole War as the basis for Sherman's ideas on war against populations.  He also describes Sherman's time spent in the South, and how his friendliness towards its people led to leniency towards them after the war concluded.  It would appear that Marszalek was somewhat influenced by B.H. Liddell Hart's Strategy, when describing Sherman's military campaigns.  Hart states that he believed Sherman was the best Civil War general because he promoted the &quot;indirect&quot; approach to warfare.  On many occasions, Marszalek refers to Sherman's &quot;psychological outflanking&quot; of the enemy and winning military victories without fighting battles-the very essence of Hart's tract.  At the same time, the author insists that Sherman was driven by his need to have order in a chaotic world.  This is in fact the theme of the entire book, and Marszalek does an admirable job of showing that Sherman fought the war in the manner he did in order to provide order (Union) the quickest way possible.  Marszalek stretches his analysis of Sherman's desire for order into his post-war life.  Sherman's experiences fighting the Indians, as well as &quot;dalliances&quot; with other women, and conflicts with politicians at caused him great distress because they were disorderly.  In the end, Sherman's desire for stability led him on a campaign to provide an accurate history of the Civil War.  Though his efforts made him many enemies in the South, his contributions ensured his place in American history, and the order he so desperately desired.	2001-05-02
US	51764503	RWO90JE6FAV8	0807821187	761125926	Gettysburg--Culp's Hill and Cemetery Hill (Civil War America)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Informative, but at times overwhelming	In Gettysburg: Culp's Hill and Cemetery Hill, Harry Pfanz sheds light on one of the lesser known aspects of the Battle of Gettysburg.  In the common history of the battle, much attention is paid to actions like Buford's stand, the attack on Little Round Top, and Longstreet's Second Assault (Pickett's Charge).  In the shadows of these momentous events is the action on Cemetery and Culp's Hills.  Ironically, these two hills formed the anchor of the Union line-the reason for fighting at Gettysburg in fact-yet the battles for them are nearly forgotten.  Pfanz reminds us of their importance in this informative but somewhat lengthy tome.  There can be no argument; Pfanz knows what he is talking about.  His attention to detail, and the extent of his knowledge is truly impressive.  However, when the entire Gettysburg Campaign can be explained thoroughly in 575 pages as Codington did, it can be somewhat tedious to read a 375-page book on two days of that campaign, and which only involved between fifteen and twenty percent of the combined armies.  This is really the only shortcoming of the book.  The story could have been better presented in fewer pages with less mind-boggling details.  One is often confused when Pfanz shifts between brigades, regiments, and companies, while trying to remember the names of all their commanders.  It appears that Pfanz was trying to please too many people with this work, and did not have the same skill of weaving the common soldier's story into the battle history that someone like Stephen Ambrose has.  Aside from those technical complaints, the book is very informative and enjoyable to read if you take your time.  There is nothing very controversial, as this is primarily a narrative.  Pfanz does a good job of presenting all the facts available, allowing the reader to make their own decisions for the most part.  On the whole, Pfanz' book is nothing spectacular, just good, informative history-a stepping-stone for further study and analysis.	2001-05-02
US	51764503	R1I0YT50T78TN	0938289462	970985083	General John Buford	Books	4	9	11	N	N	An excellent biography of an excellent general	Edward Longacre's General John Buford: A Military Biography is exactly what it presents itself to be-a military biography.  Unlike more famous commanders, Buford's biography is not bogged down with mind-numbing detail, but instead focuses only briefly on the early and non-military aspects of his life.  This is primarily due to the lack of information about Buford, which Longacre freely admits was a major problem in the writing of this book.  This is not a point of detraction however, as Longacre fills in the historical gaps with very plausible suppositions based on Buford's well-known character.<br /> One of the more interesting aspects of this work was the description of Buford's early career on the plains.  In the literature and television programming that followed the release of Gettysburg, one had the impression that Buford was a battle-hardened Indian fighter in the pre-war years.  Longacre does a good job of showing that while he had some experience, he was by no means an expert in cavalry warfare when the Civil War broke out.  Nevertheless, this part of the book was fascinating because it turns out that Buford was involved in several little known, but major campaigns in the antebellum west, including actions in Kansas and against Bringham Young's Mormons.<br /> The Civil War career of John Buford definitely climaxed on McPherson's ridge, July 1, 1863, it is therefore proper that his biography climaxes on the same episode of his life.  Though exciting to read about, it was at the same time disappointing, as Longacre seemed intent upon dispelling every popular myth about Buford at Gettysburg-it seems the truth never makes a good story!<br />       After Gettysburg, the author tracks the twilight of Buford's career and life, as he literally rode himself to death.  Though Longacre is over-zealous and unconvincing in his evaluation of Buford's contribution to cavalry warfare, he does leave the reader questioning how the war may have been different if he had lived.	2001-04-17
US	51764503	RD709N6P5HWGZ	0939631741	410273036	Morning at Willoughby Run: July 1, 1863	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Very good look at the opening action of Gettysburg	In Morning at Willoughby Run, Richard Shue provides an in-depth look at the opening combat of the battle that came to be known as Gettysburg.  With energetic prose, Shue leads the reader from the banks of the Rappahanock River to the meandering rivulet of Willoughby Run, just west of Gettysburg.  His story, while very focused, flows very well, and keeps the reader's attention despite his attention to detail, which in other works has led to monotony.  It seems that most treatises on the battle of Gettysburg glaze over the first day's fight, especially the opening action.  Yet this action was critical in determining where the great contest would occur.  Shue brings to light this importance in an intriguing way by showing the inaugural action to be the result of particular personalities, rather than great, uncontrollable events.  The main characters in the developing drama are Buford, Reynolds, and Heth.  To some degree, the aggressive spirit of all three men led directly to the conflict west of Gettysburg.  Showing that personality shapes warfare, particularly here at Gettysburg was refreshing, and differentiates Shue's volume from other accounts of the first day, such as Coddington's, which takes a Risk-like* view of war.  While the entire book was very readable, the most interesting part came at the end when Shue discusses some of the major controversies surrounding the opening engagements.  Somewhat separated from the rest of the book, this one chapter allowed Shue to express his opinions, outside of the regular narrative.  This was a pleasant surprise as he provides strong evidence for his assertions, and makes the reader believe his point of view-something that only analytical writing can accomplish-a very nice addition to the book.  On the whole, this was a very good book, one that illuminates an aspect of the battle that is largely forgotten, but was vitally important.  Shue brings to life the characters, both large and small, in order to relate a story of menand action instead of maps and numbers.	2001-03-27
US	51764503	R2P7PXWPBDHM6S	0060963107	192455654	Taking the Quantum Leap: The New Physics for Nonscientists	Books	4	42	44	N	N	Absolutely fascinating	&quot;Taking the Quantum Leap&quot; is an excellent introduction to the bizzare and amazing world of quantum physics.  Wolfe takes the reader on a journey from the early Greeks to the modern day as man searched for the answers to the universe's riddles.  He shows systematically how physicists first thought they had solved everything with Newtonian mechanics and were then thrown on their heads with the discovery of the quanta.  Wolfe proceeds to describe how the science world struggled with these new ideas and attempted to bring meaning to a universe that had suddenly become unpredictable.<br />Wolfe's analysis delves into the inner workings of the human mind and shows how each of us affects the &quot;reality&quot; we experience.  Suddenly the human mind becomes the shaper of the universe and each of us is &quot;god&quot;.  This is both reassuring and disturbing at once, but Wolfe guides the reader through it, showing that we and we alone control our destiny.<br />The book only gets four stars because at some points, Wolfe moves beyond the realm of science and introduces a strong religious trend into the story.  While he weaves it in well, it still seems out of place, and would have been stronger had he not taken this route.  However, the book is still very strong and informative.  Definitely a good starting place for a novice of quantum theory.	2001-03-23
US	51764503	R2XAHK6NCATP2U	0395735297	507464947	War As I Knew It	Books	5	137	139	N	N	Excellent Account of War by one of its Best Practicioners	&quot;War As I Knew It&quot; is not an autobiography.  It is not a study of World War II.  And it is not a doctoral dissertation.  It is simply one of the greatest, most insightful accounts of the campaign in NW Europe, beautifully written by one of history's most charismatic and successful generals.<br />The book begins with a collection of open letters written by Patton during the time of his campaigns in North Africa and Sicily.  For cesnorship reasons, these letters do not contain much battle information, but they provide a unique insight into the man Patton was, and how he dealt with problems that were not military in nature.  He discusses his meeting with French and Arab leaders in attempts to protect his rear while he defeated the Germans to his front.  The letters from Sicily are similar, discussing not so much tactics but outcomes, reactions, and the like.  These early letters show how much Patton was moved around, and the interesting places that he visited.<br />The main part of the book covers Patton's proudest moments--commanding the U.S. Third Army.  This section is wholly unique.  Written shortly after they campaign ended with Germany's surrender, Patton describes the actions of Third Army from Normandy to Czechoslovakia.  While he does not go into great detail about tactics and such, he provides a window into his own mind.  The reader knows what he was thinking when he made his decisions, and the reasons that he made those decisions.  In so doing, the reader gets a firm understanding of how an army worked in WW II.  Also, he mentions his personal relationships with many different generals...ones you don't read about in history books. In short, this is a first hand account from the man who was a pure warrior.<br />The concluding section is Patton's gift to future leaders.  He was a student of warfare, and his own contributions to the art are invaluable.  He discusses everything from the conduct of general officers, to what the best tactics for attack are, to how to deal with trenchfoot!  In conclusion, anyone who enjoys military history, or just plain good writing, should read this fascinating book written by a man born for war.	2001-02-25
US	51764503	R28JCR8R37AFRJ	0873384571	583716354	The First Day at Gettysburg: Essays on Confederate and Union Leadership	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Good narrative, no analysis	Edited by Gary W. Gallagher, The First Day at Gettysburg offers several fresh looks at leadership from both Union and Confederate perspectives.  As an essay book, it quite naturally should cover topics that are controversial, yet the essays in this book seem to dance around the issues and not really make a firm statement.  With the exception of A. Wilson Greene, the authors of these essays do not take a clear position and provide evidence to support that position.    The first two essays by Alan Nolan and Gallagher ruminate on the Confederate high command's leadership on July 1st.  Nolan attempts to show that Lee did not give enough direction to the Confederate movements on that day, and that this is what led to heavy casualties and incomplete victory.  Nolan gives a very good, succinct account of Lee's reasons for invasion, and the decisions that led to a battle on July 1, 1863.  However, he fails to prove that Lee did not provide leadership, and actually spends most of his writing discussing A.P. Hill and Richard Ewell.  From his writing, it appears that Nolan does not fully believe what he is trying to prove, but is instead writing according to his reputation as a Lee detractor.  Gallagher falls into a similar trap in discussing the leadership of Hill and Ewell.  While he is more on topic, he spends an inordinate amount of time discussing Lee-something that Nolan should have done.  His conclusions are not definite, and he does not offer any view of the two generals that has not already been discussed at length.  Robert Krick's essay seems out of place in this book.  He concentrates on three incidents of poor brigade leadership in the Confederate army.  While interesting to read, he does not show how these failures altered the outcome of the first day.  Also, his obsession with Jackson is very clear and detracts from the point of the essay.  It seems that the three essayists on Confederate leadership keep coming back to the Jackson question, but it is most out ofplace in Krick's writing.  It is fun to ask what if, however it does not deserve a place in a supposedly analytical book.    Only Greene seems to accomplish his goal in his essay.  He methodically shows that the reputation of the Eleventh Corps and its much-maligned commander was misplaced.  This is the sort of writing that is to be expected in such a book-fresh, insightful, and informative, not merely a recitation of facts that many people already are aware of.  Though an excellent look at what happened on July 1, 1863, just west of Gettysburg, The First Day at Gettysburg, does not answer the why questions nor provide any new perspectives on the action that occurred.  In this way, the book fails to accomplish its purpose.	2001-02-18
US	51764503	RW8OL645PY5WT	030680686X	548589881	Great Captains Unveiled	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Fascinating Look at Little Known Leaders	In this fairly slim volume B.H. Liddell Hart covers the lives of five generals that most people have never heard of, even though these men shaped the course of history.  Jenghiz Kahn, Marshal de Saxe, Gutavus Aldolphus, Wallenstein, and General Wolfe have never received the acclaim of Alexander, Caesar, or Washington, yet, the impact they had on their time was equally world-altering as those great captains.  <br />Hart does not go into great depth with any of these commanders, but he gives enough background to understand the times in which they formed their methods.  This provides a base from which the reader can see how different these captains were from the mold.  With each, Hart describes briefly their campaigns, but the majority of his writing is devoted to showing what each captain added to the art of war.  Instead of extracting maxim's that provide and &quot;formula&quot; for winning, Hart indentifies one or two principles that each commander brought to warfare.  He then shows how these principles were a departure for their times, and are still viable in the modern era, often referring to WW I. <br />From a writing standpoint, the book can be slow at times, and difficult to follow.  Also, Hart is writing for an audience he assumes has some knowledge of military history, as he often makes references to other wars and battles.  This is not a book for a beginner.  I suggest reading a general European or military history prior to delving into this fascinating yet complicated book.<br />This is not a life story of great unknown warriors, nor a recipe book on how to win a war.  Instead, Hart illuminates several dark corners of history, and demonstrates that these &quot;forgotten&quot; generals were true masters of war, and and modern student would be wise to learn their lessons well.	2001-02-10
US	51764503	R15X4AO2VQ3N4W	0345324250	589824021	The Zimmermann Telegram	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Better than a Bond story!	This book is history at its very best.  Tuchman has brought to life an amazing story of espionage and deceit that reads like an Ian Fleming novel.  Her fluid writing style keeps you turning the pages.  Although the outcome is known, the reader still finds themselves asking what will happen. <br />The book covers Germany's pre-war intrigues in Mexico, and then once the war starts, follows the agents sent to America to keep us out of the war.  She discusses how German spies plotted to take over munitions factories and stop the flow of war goods to the Allies...and how they nearly succeeded.  The story also discusses how Wilson was tormented by the decision to bring America into the war, and how he really did wish peace for the world.  Yet, when confronted with the Zimmerman Telegram, which offered Mexico the reacquisition of Texas, Arizona and New Mexico, Wilson was left with no choice but war. <br />It is incredible at how a blunder by one German official was able to bring the world's most powerful nation into the fold against them.  Yet that stays with the theme of WW I, and the Zimmerman Telegram may have been the biggest blunder of the war.  Thanks to Barbara Tuchman, we know how it all came to pass.	2001-01-16
US	51764503	R2NMG4VJ9A5FUG	0345324250	589824021	The Zimmermann Telegram	Books	5	3	5	N	N	History at its best	This is the book that introduced Barbara Tuchman to the world, and what an introduction!  In this slim volume, Tuchman covers the events leading up to the telegram that sent America to war.  The book covers the fascinating topic of dimplomatic espionage in the years before and durning the first world war.  In what sounds like something from a James Bond novel, Tuchman describes Germany's attempts to nudge Mexico and Japan into a war with the United States, as well as heightening America's own insecurities about her territory.  It is amazing that even in the 20th century, Americans still felt that a foreign invasion was a very real threat.  Tuchman then proceeds to describe in detail how the telegram sent by Zimmerman was delivered to America at exactly the right time to bring us into the war.  In short, the book is a great, quick read that illuminates one of the most exciting stories in our history.	2001-01-10
US	51764503	R1Q4Z0M93UA6GT	0805060995	34649879	Decisive Day: The Battle for Bunker Hill	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Magnificent Story	This is one of the best written books I have ever read about the American Revolution.  Ketchum is a very accomplished writer. Though at times his prose is slightly confusing, overall he does a good job of conveying to his readers the desperate situation the American rebels were in.  Ketchum also does a good job of placing the Battle of Bunker Hill in context of the entire war.  He picks up the story about 3 weeks before the battle, and fills in the back story of Lexington and Concord.  His description of the events leading up to the battle, especially the description of the night march and entrenchment of American troops is fascinating, and keeps you turning the pages.  The actual battle only fills one chapter, simply because it was a very straightforward affair.  Amazingly, out of about 3000 men engaged on both sides, 1500 were casualties!  However, Ketchum makes it very clear that the Americans gave worse then they got, and shows how Bunker Hill would become a confidence booster for the American Cause.<br />My only complaint about the book is the lack of a good map of the area.  Ketchum uses contemporary drawings of Boston to show the places he is describing, but these are not very accurrate and you never really get a picture of where the battle took place in relation to other landmarks.  However, this does not detract from the narrative, and I strongly reccommend reading this book, for anyone of any level of interest in the era.	2001-01-04
US	51764503	R3T7SK35X8YU92	034538623X	484061988	The Guns of August (Modern Library 100 Best Nonfiction Books)	Books	5	196	211	N	N	Simply the greatest history book ever written	What Barbara Tuchman has done here is something precious few historians are able to do.  With her stunning prose and fathomless knowledge, she brings to life that first fateful month of World War One.  The historical figures she describes seem more like a collection of characters from an action novel.  More than once I found myself saying &quot;Did they really do that?&quot;  Ordinarily I can only read about 75 pages at a time before I start to lose interest and need a break.  This book I began one morning and didn't put it down until I finished it.  Tuchman kept my interest throughout and at times, though I knew the outcome, I found myself sitting at the edge of my chair wondering what would happen next.  Even some of the best novels do not have this kind of power.  <br />As for the book itself, it covers only the first month of the war.  Though it does go into some depth of the war's origins, the main focus is on the movement and action of the armies from mobilization day until stalemate is reached.  Tuchman's research is exhaustive, and this is the definitive work on that period.  When the book was finished, I was disappointed only because she didn't continue.  I wish I could give this more than five stars. If you have any interest in history whatsoever, regardless of your field, you must read this book, because this is what history should be!	2001-01-03
US	51764503	R20SJJX49JJG6N	0140444335	679195868	The Conquest of Gaul (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Amazing First Hand Account	Many of the ancient works with which we are acustom were written by men far removed from the events which they were writing about, either by space or time.  Here, we have a dramatic account of the coquest of Gaul(modern France and Belgium) written by the man who conquered it, Julius Caesar.  He eloquently takes us from his early campaigns against Helvetii invaders to the climatic seige of Alesia seven years later.  Throughout, Caesar keeps our interest with vivid descriptions of not only battles, but also customs, architecture, and politics of the conquer peoples.  He is a magnificent story-teller, and I found it hard to believe that this was not written by a modern historian.  Because these &quot;commentaries&quot; were written at the time of the campaign, they have a certain honesty about them that something like memoirs do not.  Though there is a somewhat obvious slant to the Roman side, it does not take away from the quality of the reporting.  As with most ancient works, the reader needs to be somewhat aware of the exaggeration that takes place, as the Romans always seem to be facing incredible odds.  It is clear from his writing that Caesar views the unwavering courage of the Roman legionaire as the reason for all his victories, even in the face of overwhelming enemy numbers.  Among the more interesting sections of the work are his descriptions of the different cultures, especially the differences between the Gauls who had been somewhat Romanized, and the still barbarian Germans, who even though he respected them as warriors, still managed to defeat pretty soundly.<br />What really makes this work so personable is that Caesar is writing about his own actions, and is discussing events and people who will later play an important part in Caesar's life and death, yet at this time are insignificant, or nearly so.  Because he writes in the third person, this has the feeling that it was written well after the events occurred by someone who knew Caesar's fate, and it makes you stop and think occassionally that when he wrote this work, Caesar did not know what awaited him, and that makes it all the more interesting.  It is simply a masterpiece of ancient history, and a must read for a history buff of any time period.	2001-01-01
US	51764503	R6NZB7GNFSV19	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very good read	Crichton has once again produce a spectacular work of fiction based on cutting edge technology.  This time it involves time travel, but not in the way we're used to.  The protagonists are actually sent to a parallel dimension where it is actually the 14th century.  They are trapped there and have to avoid many of the hazards of Medieval live before returning to the present.  The novel is wonderfully written and keeps you wanting more all the time.  Definitely the kind of book you could read during a blizzard or just when you don't want to leave the house!  Magnificent!	2000-12-28
US	51764503	RT2QKA6A0EY92	0807121363	773031948	The Battles for Spotsylvania Court House and the Road to Yellow Tavern, May 7--12, 1864	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The most horrible Civil War battle brought alive	I have previously written that Rhea's &quot;Battle of the Wilderness&quot; was the greatest battle history I have ever read.  I need to correct myself.  &quot;The Battles for Spotsylvania Courthouse&quot; has surpassed Rhea's previous work.  This horrible battle of wills between Grant and Lee is brought alive by Rhea's wonderful prose. He has a very rare talent of being an outstanding writer and an exhaustive researcher.  The combination provides for the most exciting exciting reading in history.<br />The book begins where &quot;Wilderness&quot; left off.  Grant and Lee are staring at eachother from behind strong entrenchments.  The narrative proceeds to describe the armies' movements to Spotsylvania Courthouse, and as a reader, you find yourself holding you breath occassionally, asking questions like: Will Lee's men get there in time?  Will Sheridan break through? etc. Rhea's style makes it very hard to put the book down while at the same time you are getting all the information and facts that you would froma text book.<br />As Rhea continues, he describes the 5 days of fighting in and around the Courthouse in brutal detail.  He discussion of the battle on May 12th for the &quot;Muleshoe&quot; salient is hauntingly similar to the trench battles of WW I.  No other battle in the Civil War came close to the brutality displayed there on that day.  In the space of 1/2 mile, 17,000 soldiers fell, and Rhea's description leaves and indelible mark on a reader's mind.  <br />The book itself is well constructed.  The chapters are a bit long, but not too bad.  There are many maps that give a clear picture of the action.  As an added bonus, there is also an in-depth discussion of the Battle of Yellow Tavern, where Jeb Stuart was killed.  All these, plus extensive endnotes, combine to make &quot;The Battles for Spotsylvania Courthouse&quot; the very best in Civil War battle history.  Definitely a must own for any Civil War buff, or military historian in general.	2000-12-26
US	51764503	RBRZ1F1FNR6S9	0684853396	977410269	Day of Deceit: The Truth About FDR and Pearl Harbor	Books	3	15	25	N	N	Fascinating topic, but poorly written	In &quot;Day of Deceit&quot;, Robert Stinnett has finally brought out the truth  of America's greatest military disaster.  Using the Freedom of Information Act, Stinnett was able to uncover long classified materials that clearly show that the high command of the United States knew of an impending Japanese attack, yet with-held the information from the commanders on the spot, namely Admiral Kimmel and General Short.  Through tracing intercepts of Japanese communiques, Stinnett peaces together a &quot;plot&quot; by America's military and civilian leaders to provoke an &quot;overt act&quot; against the U.S.  Through his analysis, Stinnett gets into the technicalities of communication espionage, and uncovers that we had knowledge of Japan's intentions right up to a few hours before the attack, and yet, no one in command at Pearl was told. In all, the book makes for a quick, but fascinating read.  And I strongly reccommend it for anyone who is interested in either WW II history or conspiracies.<br />That said, however, the author should have had someone either closely read the book before publishing or have someone else write it entirely.  His prose is sometimes confusing, and he often skips between months and years in the same paragraphs, which can lead to some disorientation.  He also has a habit of repeating things several times, so that the reader gets a sense of deja vu occassionally.  Overall however the book is very interesting and radically alters a part of our history we thought we knew so well.	2000-12-19
US	51764503	R3ADJ987652HHG	0195115813	239835923	Ken Burns's The Civil War: Historians Respond	Books	3	55	60	N	N	Historian's Complain is more accurrate	The premise behind Toplin's book is a very interesting one.  When Ken Burns' epic documentary on the Civil War received the highest ratings in public television's history, historian's immediately began to comment on it.  Toplin brought together, in this one volume, many of today's most notable Civil War Era historians to turn their comments into essays about the film's pros and cons.  Unfortunately, the historians only seem to care about the cons.  With &quot;The Civil War&quot;, Burns was attempting to educate the public at large, not the academic historian.  This fact seems to be lost upon the authors of these essays.  The primary focus of the criticisms in this book do not deal with the film itself, but rather with what the film forgot.  Most complaints are geared towards the treatment of women and blacks.  This is because the authors of these essays are primarily social historians, with the exception of Prof. Gallagher and Prof. Boritt.  It is no surprise then that the majority of the essays scathe Burns for not telling the whole story of slavery, or of women, or of Reconstruction.  By doing this, these authors have missed the point that the film series is about war, not social change.  Therefore, this book only gets three stars because the content is not of good quality. While each author is correct in their statements about what Burns left out, they do not grasp what Burns was attempting to do.  The most interesting part of the book in fact is when Burns and his writer Ward respond to the historians responses, and I believe put them in their place.  I suggest reading this after viewing the films, but take what they say with a grain of salt, and do not judge the film series by what is written in this book.	2000-12-11
US	51764503	R20NXR2UYUXRJ6	0805017887	798984170	The Second World War: A Complete History	Books	5	23	24	N	N	One of the Best Treatments of WW II	Martin Gilbert's volume on the Second World War is truly a complete history.  It is not just a story of battles and great men, but also a story of unparalleled suffering.  The Second World War was the most destructive conflict ever to afflict our planet, and Gilbert makes the reader realize this, with his relentlessness in reporting death.  In an almost day by day account, Gilbert informs the reader that while all the great battles were taking place, while generals were winning fame, the people of Europe, especially the Jews, were suffering unimaginable horrors.  This is the true legacy of World War Two, and Gilbert gets the point across well.   As you read the book, you cannot help but feel sick at the awesome loss of life taking place in Hitler's concentration camps.  The vivid descriptions of gassings, and the ovens working 24 hours a day, made me put the book down more than once.<br />Gilbert also talks about the battles, and his descriptions of these are just as vivid if not as detailed.  You can imagine what it was like to be there, but don't know everything that happened. In the end you get the sense that Gilbert's focus was definitely not on the military aspects, but on the overall cost of life.  He does not glorify this conflict in anyway, and he leaves you believing that maybe no one really won the war.<br />This is not a book I would tackle all at once, but maybe keep it by your bedside for those restless nights, although you may find you will not be able to put it down once you pick it up.  I reccommend this for someone who knows a bit about the war and wants a good general overview.  Someone who has done a lot of background reading may not find it as stimulating, but it is still worth reading.	2000-12-09
US	51764503	R2AXNEABT73Y7M	0684845695	505645608	The Gettysburg Campaign: A Study in Command	Books	4	30	31	N	N	The who, what, where, when, and why of Gettysburg	&quot;The Gettysburg Campaign&quot; was the life work of Edwin B. Coddington.  He unfortunately died before its publication, but his and his book's influence stretches well into the modern day. &quot;The Gettysburg Campaign&quot; is a monumental work that leaves very little to be desired.  Every aspect of the campaign, which began with the Union defeat at Chancellorsville on May 5, 1863 and ended on July 15, 1863 with Confederate retreat across the Potomac, is covered in this book.  While his writing style can be somewhat slow at times, he knows his material very well, and does a good job of relaying the information to the reader.  However, for someone who does not know much about the battle, it can be a bit overwhelming.  His battle descriptions are crisp and detailed, but lack the excitment of an experienced writer.  This is his only fault.<br />This book is not for someone who is new to Civil War studies and to fully grasp what he is saying, I would suggest that you visit the battlefield first and get a tour.  This will make a the book much less ambiguous, especially because the maps included are not very clear.  I have read this book four times, and each time, I come away amazed at everything that occurred during this epic battle.  If you truly want to understand the battle of Gettysburg and its place in Civil War history, Coddington's masterpiece is a must own.	2000-11-28
US	51764503	R1PVT4GZGZ8VBE	0684862948	749525595	LINCOLN'S MEN: How President Lincoln Became Father to an Army and a Nation	Books	5	5	7	N	N	At last the truth comes out	William C. Davis has done a great thing here, in a way that only he can.  Finally, Abraham Lincoln has been portrayed as not only a father to the slaves, but to our entire nation.  For many years, the myth was that Lincoln did not have the support of the army, that they did not believe in the cause that Lincoln did.  Davis dispels this notion with ease, stating that the army was always behind Lincoln, and grew more so as the war went on.  Davis also discusses how Lincoln made an effort to be seen by his armies, and they noticed his efforts and it endeared them to him. With a prose that forces you to keep turning the pages, Davis explores the subject of Lincoln and his army with and objective eye, and his conclusions are unarguable.  Truly a must have for any Civil War buff.	2000-11-25
US	51764503	RZKDDZZOOZ7JT	0820320749	367292366	Civil War Stories (Georgia Southern University Jack N. and Addie D. Averitt Lecture Ser.)	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Catherine Clinton missed something...the Civil War!	This story, while interesting from a social historian perspective, really has nothing to do with what the title implies.  This story of a family divided really has nothing to do with the American Civil War.  The family Clinton writes about is supposedly torn apart by the war, but that is simply not the case.  Long before the war started, the family was split because the father and mother were incompatible.  Though when the war started, the family was split in half, mother and one daughter living in the north while father and the other daughter lived in the south, the split occurred long before the war, and continued long afterwards.  Clinton has fallen, here, into the trap that many new social historians have, that is &quot;losing&quot; the Civil War. It is true that these three stories occurred during the Civil War, but they cannot be rightly called &quot;Civil War Stories&quot;.  It is analougus to writing a book about the Kitty Genovese murder and calling it a Vietnam story.  On top of it, Clinton is not a good writer, and the book is full of grammatical errors and incoherent sentences.  Also, her writing style is not very good, and she could stand to take a few more classes in english, and history for that matter, as she gets some facts terribly wrong.  I do not reccommend this book for anyone expecting a social history of women in the Civil War because it is not the case.  While the story itself may be interesting to some, it does not deserve the title &quot;Civil War Stories&quot; and should not be presented as such.	2000-11-13
US	51764503	R3E5PK2XZ66G2D	0807118737	796615899	The Battle of the Wilderness, May 5--6, 1864	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Best military history of a Civil War battle	&quot;Battle of the Wilderness&quot;, by Gordon C. Rhea, is simply the best treatment of any Civil War battle.  Rhea's narrative is as captivating as the best work of fiction, and more so. As a reader, I felt as though the action was un-folding right before my eyes, and I found it exceedingly difficult to put the book down!  As for the content, this book was well researched, and presented in a very orderly fashion.  Rhea does an excellent job of making clear the tangled mess that was the Wilderness.  I had no difficulty in following the ebb and flow of the battle as I have had with other works.  Rhea makes the reader realize that this was a major effort by both sides on the scale of the great battles of Gettysburg and Antietam.  The Overland Campaign is often overshadowed by these more &quot;glorious&quot; battles from earlier in the war, but after reading this book, I am convinced that the Southern cause was by no means lost in May 1864, and that Grant was not the invincible juggernaut people think.  He was very nearly whipped in the Wilderness, and Rhea does a good job of making that clear to the reader.  To conclude I gave this book five stars because it touches a subject that not many people know about, it is well researched, and is written so well that some novelists could learn lessons from it.  In short, this is a must own for any Civil War or military buff!	2000-11-13
US	51764503	R33H80RIT42WJU	0452010713	652873235	Strategy: Second Revised Edition (Meridian)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	As relevant today as in acient times	B. H. Lidell Hart has written a masterpiece in &quot;Strategy&quot;.  His survey of history and it's successful generals all point to one, irrepressible conclusion; that to win, you must do the unexpected.  Hart's main contention is that from acient to modern times, the generals who win, and win consistently, do so not by beating their heads against impregnable positions or trying to bring the enemy's main body to battle by direct action.  Instead, he argues that in war, the object is to achieve victory at the least cost--in other words, use economy of force.  The &quot;indirect method&quot; which he speaks of has been tested over time, and has proven itself repeatedly.  Of the truly decisive campaigns from all of history, 90% of them were won, not by direct assault, but by maneuver, cunning, and by forcing an enemy army to prepare for multiple contingencies.  In short, this book is not a handguide to winning a war, and does not present itself as such.  What Hart does is show what history's successful captains have done, and leaves the reader to draw his own conclusions, and apply the facts that Hart presents.  Overall, a well-written survery of military history that tests many of our preconcieved notions military success.	2000-11-13
US	51764503	R2A7OV7UNMU45O	0306805839	935753065	Scipio Africanus	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Intriguing look at, possibly, history's greatest captain	Scipio Africanus is not the general one usually associates with Rome, but after reading Hart's biography of him, I am convinced that he was Rome's greatest captain.  Hart's analysis is clear and concise, and he covers all  the aspects of Africanus' genius in detail.  Not only was Scipio an  unrivalled military genius, but also a skilled diplomat, and a man of  vision.  Undefeated in battle, Scipio not only conquered Rome's enemies,  but through dimplomacy was able to gain powerful allies, and fulfill his  vision, of an acient world dominated, but not controlled, by Rome.   Unfortunately, his high moral character did not allow him to play the game  of politics and therefore, he was cheated out of his rightful place in  history.  <br />Hart, after presenting a strong case for Scipio's sumpremacy,  moves on to compare him to other great captains.  I believe he convincingly  shows that no other general in history achieved Scipio's understanding of  the breadth of war, and it's ultimate goal of creating a lasting peace.   For this reason, Hart concludes that Scipio is the greatest captain of all  time.  This book is a must read for anyone who wants to read about the  greatest general they never heard of!	2000-06-11
