US	51773389	R3A2B6FZ3IUUWM	0060976241	591681693	The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An old soul in a young man...	I love this writer's work, and this title is particularly outstanding.  Alexie has an old soul and he conveys its insights with a power and beauty that a rare few writer can attain; he writes in the ranks of the Classic Pens and I have no doubt that he will be considered such in days to come.<br />This collection of stories is astounding in their breadth and depth of emotion, and Alexie shares with aplomb the struggle of the Ancient with the Modern and the clash his peoples are embroiled in as they seek to maintain their connections to the past while attempting to find - and embrace - their rightful place in the present.<br />Alexie's characters are real, poignant, heartbreaking, wise, wonderful, complex, astute, ordinary, extraordinary...<br />If you want to blast away forever your preconceived ideas about the Native culture and its peoples, pick up this man's work - any of the titles.  Start here, and enjoy the journey with Sherman.  You'll come away the richer and wiser for it.<br />Can't recommend this title highly enough.	2002-09-02
US	51773389	RKUBHWMS64448	0385491743	645558152	The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A must-read for over-taxed professional	Simply put, I love this book.  Richard Koch has written a gem and it's a book that should remain on your bookshelf for repeated review and reference.<br />The Pareto Principle states that, in fairly accurate estimation, 20% of your attentions/energies will generate 80% of your results (no matter what scenario you apply it to).  This principle, the genesis of an acute Italian philosopher's mind, is a profound revelation and one that has borne true over and over.<br />While the theory has been around for multi-decades, it is only now getting the attention it deserves, particularly by the corporate set.  I highly recommend it to my fellow professionals, particularly those who're juggling multiple projects or managing people groups.  Applying the principle to your own job function and expectations will greatly benefit you and your realm of responsibility - you'll see results, even with less of your personal time invested.<br />I read the book in a day - and will read it again several times more, I'm sure!  Get the book, read it and find yourself generating a more balanced work/personal life, saving time on the job and getting the results you (and your boss!) are looking for!	2002-08-29
US	51773389	R1OLGMI42QOL5Z	0471381403	289993092	I Know What You're Thinking: Using the Four Codes of Reading People to Improve Your Life	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Fundamentals and more...	&quot;Reading&quot; people has always been a fascination of mine and something I've done instinctively all my life.  While searching for materials to study/read on the subject of body language I came across a recommendation for this title and decided I'd give the book a go - I'm glad I bought it.<br />It's a great read and well worth the title price.  The Good Doctor gives astute explanations and examples of the Four Codes (Speaking, Vocal, Body Language, Facial)... it all comes down to this, &quot;what you see and hear are what you get.&quot;<br />Dr. Glass gives tips and tricks, outlines for examination of everything from professional conflict to dating relations.  Communication is more that speaking words and, in fact, people communicate more with their bodies and voice than they do with the words they say.<br />This title is a great choice for those who want to refresh and hone their body language-reading skills and for those who are new to the 'art and science' of the craft.  It's not an academic review; it's a highly enjoyable read put in layman's terms that gives practical insight and advice.  I highly recommend it!	2002-08-29
US	51773389	R1WQHGXWU3W8MO	0140280197	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Equally wonderful for its history lessons as its insights...	Robert Greene has compiled a compendium of examples of the wielding of power through the annals of historical figures and their consequential impact.  He details various individuals via their deducible actions and associations.<br />Greene relays over and over, through his well selected examples of accomplishments and foibles, that power is merely a tool and it is one that can be brandished both constructively and destructively; it's all in how one utilizes it and what his/her base motivation is.  I learned as much about history as I did about power.  One of my favourite passages in on P.T. Barnum... the man was wonderfully entertaining, even in his cunning (the &quot;brick&quot; stunt was ingenious!).<br />As I read the book, I noticed a common theme in the stories that relayed the right use of power - choose the path of least resistance and measure the character of your opponents carefully.  Find the base motivation of your 'opponent' (direct or indirect, depending on your own goals and motivations) and you have the power.<br />The conglomerate message of the 48 Laws of Power all boils down to this:  Protect Your Reputation.<br />The examples given are timeless, yet are as relevant today as they were in the times they were lived.  I highly recommend this book to both historian buffs and those who want to effect and affect their own aspirations more, well, powerfully.  A big thumbs up!	2002-08-29
US	51773389	R3RLP859FX2N1K	0006481965	917956353	Truth And Bright Water	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A moving story that'll capture your attention...	For those who don't know this author, Thomas King is  an English Professor at the University of Guelph. And he's as genuine a voice in literature as the Native population could ask for. <br />This book, 'Truth and Bright Water' is a fabulous read - I was hooked in from the first sentence and didn't put the book down until I'd finished it; the reader is completely absorbed in/by the lives of the characters. <br />Thomas has an outstanding ability to take his pennings and  create rich and dense pictures/emotions for his readers; I could actually envision the landscapes he described, and astutely knew the emotions and perceptions he was ascribing to his characters. <br />Tecumseh and Lum are two teenage cousins who are rolling through life - seemingly on the fringe but fully involved in the complex events and lives of those around them. For Tecumseh, there's enlightenment and understanding, for Lum despair and alienation. Many of the supporting cast members are wacky and hilarious. Though their way of life was crushed in many ways, their hope, bravery, and stalwart endurance continues on, and such is richly displayed in the story of these two teenage boys. <br />King is an astute observer of humanity's workings and what makes people (and people groups) tick - such discernment shines through every word of the book. As well, he turns society's impression of 'a dumb Indian' on its heels and reveals the complex insight and wisdom that Natives have and hold. Their genuine character shines through brilliantly in each and every person featured in the book. <br />King's writings are a fabulous read - poignant, entertaining, provoking, prophetic, and insightful. All the best of what the reader could hope for. This title gets two big thumbs up from me.	2002-08-29
US	51773389	R1SK0VZ846HDBN	0028639677	233824740	10 Minute Guide to Performance Appraisals	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A helpful tool...	As part of my job function I am required, on occasion, to write a performance improvement plan.  In the ideal world, such exercise would not be necessary, but reality dictates otherwise.<br />This year, I found myself having to draft an improvement plan for one of my employees and I wanted to ensure that it was sustainable, realistic and measureable... all the things needed in the corporate context.<br />I picked up this small book and found it to be quite useful.  It's presented in an easy-to-read format that walks a first-timer through the process and set-up of both performance appraisals and improvement plans and gives a good understanding of parameters (excellent refresher for the experienced in this functional requirement).<br />Using the book as a guideline, I was able to structure a detailed improvement plan outline and one that I can measure the performance of the employee's progress or lack thereof.<br />If you feel intimidated at the though of structuring an improvement plan and don't know where to begin (or you're looking for a quick refresher), and are looking for something that gives the employee a tool to guide and direct them to improvement, I recommend this title as a good starter point.	2002-08-29
US	51773389	R2PGAQTG5E3C1U	0944002269	435651032	Managing Sideways: Using The Rummler-Brache Process Improvement Approach to Achieve Performance Breakthrough	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An excellent overview of the Process Management wave...	Pritchett doesn't say alot - this is a slim tome - but what he says, he says very well.<br />Process management is the big thing in the corporate world, and with good reason... it gets results.  This little book will give you a great overview of the 'process' of process management - how and why it works, what to do, and where to start.<br />Pritchett has a load of great books on the subject but this one is succinct, easy to read, and certainly informative on getting one started into the realm of managing the 'soft' stuff while getting the 'hard' stuff on track and becoming streamlined and efficient.<br />I like this guy.  He's wise, successful, and insightful.  What he talks about works.  I recommend Pritchett's writings.  Enjoy.	2001-07-16
US	51773389	RBXJG1UFL6TU6	0773759034	66255318	Leadership from Within	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great tome on leadership...	Mr. Bender has written a fantastic little book on leadership style and approach.  It isn't overwhelming, one can read a littler here and a little there, the topics are on the mark, the advice is solid and the package is interesting.<br />It's hard to make the topic of leadership something beyond informative, but Bender manages to make it interesting and fun.  The author focuses on 'style' and how one can manage the various personalities that inevitably crop up in the professional world.  What's particularly nice about the insight in this book is that it's in no way condescending.  Like magnate Mike Hammer says, \\"the soft stuff is the hard stuff.\\"  Managing people is 'soft leadership' while managing process is 'hard leadership.'  And it's the soft leadership that is the hardest to do well.  Bender will set you well on your way to doing right and doing it well.<br />...I highly recommend Mr. Bender's works.	2001-07-16
US	51773389	R2JQ16KLQUBPBL	0375506276	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Not his best, but entertaining nonetheless...	I've been waiting for this novel for a long time (well, it feels a long time for a die-hard Irving fan!!), and once I got my hands on it I didn't put it down 'til I was finished reading the whole story.<br />I'm conflicted about this work; the story is most entertaining and there are a number of laugh-out-loud moments, thanks to Irving's brilliant turn-of-phrase gifting but this book doesn't have the strong characters of his previous works.  I will forever gauge Irving's future writings by the phenomenal (and, in my opinion, most brilliant) work &lt;i&gt;A Prayer for Owen Meany&lt;/i&gt;.  Alongside &lt;i&gt;Meany&lt;/i&gt; this novel cannot catch a dim shine.<br />Wallingford, the main character, is one-dimensional (but that's intentional, I'm sure) and darn-it-all we don't get to see/hear/experience enough of Dr. Sajac.  Maybe Irving has plans for the good Dr. in a different novel.  I hope so.  The women characters are very strong - too strong.  They're like sharks circling about, ready to devour.  Not enough counter-balancing, quirky, emotional riffing coming from them.  Then again, maybe Irving did that deliberately.  This work is definitely full of satire!<br />On the other hand, I enjoyed the romp through the typically convoluted-complicated-Irvingesque relationships.  The personal collisions at the characters' intersecting one another are great.  I think of the make-up girl cleaning up Wallingford's apartment while lambasting her brother Vito on the phone, &lt;i&gt;after&lt;/i&gt; Wallingford has told her he's going to ask another woman to marry him - and &lt;i&gt;this&lt;/i&gt;after having a wild night in the sack where said make-up girl almost choked to death on her gum.  As I noted, it's typical Irving twisted fun.<br />If you've not read John Irving's works before, don't start here.  Start with &lt;i&gt;Prayer for Owen Meany, The Cider House Rules,&lt;/i&gt; or &lt;i&gt;The World According to Garp.&lt;/i&gt;  Then go read this novel.<br />It's short, it'sfun, and it won't change the world... perfect for a summer break's indulgence by the water at the cottage.<br />Mr. Irving... I'm looking forward to your next work.  Don't make us wait too long... but don't short-shift us on your wacky, complicated characters, either!  Thank you for another fun literary crack at pen'n'paper!	2001-07-15
US	51773389	R2AMFZWMBVXKLW	0618073272	894291394	Monkey Beach	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Exposing the core with aplomb...	Eden Robinson is a rising star of the literary-letter set here in Canada and this book showcases that talent with aplomb.  The book is a wonderful delving into the core of its protagonist, Lisa-Marie, as she looks back over her life and the Haisla heritage that surrounds her.<br />Lisa-Marie is a typical young woman in so many ways; yet, she is a fully spiritual native woman who's not entirely at ease with her heritage.  As she explores her past (and the relationships she has held to over the years), Lisa-Marie sets off on an odyssey of the soul, in search for the root meaning and purpose of her life.<br />This is an excellent arrangement; the prose is beautifully styled and very absorbing.  Ms. Robinson is an author who has found her own unique (and genuine) voice and I expect she will turn out more masterful stories in the years ahead.  I look forward to her next work.<br />This book's worth your buck - buy yourself a copy and enjoy... this is a tale you'll be glad you've taken the time to enter into.	2001-04-16
US	51773389	R2WEC86YYARMKX	0393049701	814842893	No Great Mischief	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Wonderful...	I can but say that the author has created a beautiful work; poetic prose, carefully crafted, finely honed, wonderfully arranged... a symphony of words.<br />MacLeod is a master storyteller and has managed to capture the essence of the East Coasters' way of life and thought.  This is a family saga that will woo the reader gently and carry him/her along to a resonant end.<br />I wax poetic (and I do it badly!), but it's hard to review a book many now hail a masterpiece work.  Buy the book, settle in to your favorite chair and enjoy.  This one's a gem.	2001-04-13
US	51773389	R20BSC347UKLKU	0771074581	82577806	The Bay of Love and Sorrows. (SIGNED)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Sublime writing...	If you've not read any of David Adams Richards' books, you're missing a wonderful experience.  Richards is master of the sublime, even when covering gritty topics and plotlines.  Such as it is in this title; the characters are imperfect, flawed, some of them disturbed, outcast.  This story is a tangled web woven, entrapping the souls it skirts, unravelling their lives as the situation(s) gain momentum.  There are truly haunting moments experienced as one absorbs the tale.  Although the reader will have affinity with the characters' very human flaws, Richards never allows us to get too close and I believe he does that deliberately; this fiction takes an in-depth look at the shallowness of living on the edge and the waste that it is.<br />The story will pull you in gently and carry you along with ease - the writing is so good you don't notice it... you simply absorb the story and its characters.<br />I've been keeping my eyes open for more of this writer's works (I started with his latest &quot;Mercy Among the Children&quot;) as he has quickly become one of my fave writers.  This is an excellent starter into the rich and dense world of David Adams Richards.  Enjoy.	2001-04-10
US	51773389	R3BQ8A5U7U307F	0940232707	456231086	Beyond Radical	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A bone-rattler, this one...	I can't even begin to describe the shake-up this book is causing and will continue to cause.  It's a straight-up, stream-lined preach on what is (and why it's like that) the fundamentals of church life.<br />If you're a believer who *knows* that what there is in 'church' is not all that it should be, or could be, then read this book.  If you're a believer who senses the coming revolution and want some solid insight, read this book.  If you want a bone-rattling read regarding your faith and its tenets - READ THIS BOOK.  You'll not view your church (institution) life the same ever again.<br />Can't recommend this title highly enough.  Read the full body of Mr. Edwards' works; they're all gems.	2001-03-25
US	51773389	R302WT2DK8F7Z5	0312242360	425833090	Round Ireland with a Fridge	Books	4	39	39	N	N	A light, entertaining read...	This book doesn't claim to be anything but what it is: a rollicking good time.  Hawks has detailed his misadventures with a fridge whilst traipsing around the Green Isle.  It makes for a fun time, it really does.<br />The premise is so absurd it has to be real:  the author makes a bet with a mate in the midst of a party... that he attempt to take a fridge all the way around the country of Ireland - and do it in 30 days or less.  Hawks, not being of right mind, agrees.  Then he gets sober and realizes the enormity of this £100 bet.  The first hilarious mis-step in the adventure is that the fridge he bought for the trek cost him roughly what the bet was for.<br />From there things get better (or worse, if you're Hawks) and a great time begins.  The book doesn't just reflect Hawks' strange experiences whilst hitching with a compact fridge - it also shows the generous and good-natured heart of the Irish.<br />I bought this book for my trans-atlantic flight home and it keep me fully entertained for the entire 8 hours.  This isn't a challenging read, but it's darn good fun all the same.  I give it a recommend.	2000-12-21
US	51773389	R7FZOW5T2FLHL	0771044437	194392066	Moose Meat & Wild Rice	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A treasure-trove of hilarity...	Basil Johnston is a Canadian National Treasure, he really is.  The man is a master story-teller, even in printed form.<br />&quot;Moose Meat and Wild Rice&quot; is a collection of true stories taken from the recollections of the Moose Meat Point Indian Reserve.  The stories are fresh, good-natured and full of wonderful insight into the life and living of the Natives' collective soul.<br />The adventure in humour abounds in this tome - from errant and misguided honey-gathering friends, to a young brave out to prove his bravery by taking on the dark forces of an abandoned house, to some memories of Johnston's very own.<br />One of my favourite stories, apart from the honey-gathering fiasco, was that of the war-vet friends, Meegis and Konauss, looking to wet their palates.  But then there's also the wedding tale, and the bologna=meat/sawdust=wood account.  Oh wait, there's the on-ice privys, and the head-light bashing Yellow Cloud.<br />Well, suffice to say, there are a number of wonderful recountings that will have you laughing out loud.  As Mr. Johnston himself said of the stories, &quot;If the accounts sometimes appear to be far-fetched and even implausible, it is simply because human beings very often act and conduct their affairs and those of others in absurd manner.&quot;  Amen to that, Mr. Johnston.  And it's a good thing, too, because if we humans didn't act so absurdly we'd be robbed of your incredible story-telling gift.<br />A big bravo to this title.  Grab a copy, settle in, and enjoy the story-teller at his finest.	2000-12-17
US	51773389	R1MSLYKS5M1RUP	0140254749	963006613	Medicine River	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A wonderful read...	This title was my second foray into the realm of King's writing, and I found it to be as rewarding as the first (his latest novel, Truth and Bright Water - another superb read).<br />Medicine River is the story of Will and his best friend Harlen, and a cast of other lovable, hilarious characters as they go about their day-to-day life.  There is intrigue and gossip, speculation and antics, all true to form for any typical nuclear community.  The book's dialogue is superb - and laugh-out-loud funny.  The reader will embrace Harlen's quirky views with glee and will sigh right along with Will, as he diligently works to get Harlen around to the punchline.  Wonderful exchanges.<br />King has an incredible gift - it's that of showcasing the heartbreak of life against the backdrop of humour, and he does it with style, class, and ingenuity.  He continues this fine tradition in Medicine River.  The plight and struggle of the Native community is seen through Will's recollections of growing up fatherless.  He spells out the hardships his mother endured while trying to raise him and his younger brother on her own.  The story of many souls across the land, and King - through Will - has done a class act job portraying the depths of experience.  The healing balm in Thomas's writings is, of course, laughter and humour, and you'll get lots of that in this novel.<br />The New York Times said of this book, &quot;Precise and elegant... a most satisfying read.&quot;  I'm in full agreement.  An excellent book and worthy of a spot of your bookshelf.  I highly recommend it.	2000-12-14
US	51773389	R2S2GL0QR82A2D	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good read...	I heard the hype and fought it for a long time; I caved in and read the book this past week.  I was pleasantly surprised.  I expected a graphic and gratuitous romp through the eagle-eye of some stereotypical male... I didn't get that.<br />What suprised me most was that I sided with the protagonist, one Rob Zimmerman, as he swam his way through the dark waters of relationships, even when he was overlapping them.  This is an intelligent and intuitive book, and Hornby should be proud of the work.  It's original, it's entertaining, and it even makes the reader give pause and think hard about some of the issues he raises through his characters.<br />While I didn't find it laugh-out-loud funny, I did find the observations and conclusions humorous - something to be savoured and rolled around a bit before swallowing.  I know a number of 'Robs'... have 'em in my family, and sometimes I think I have this bloke in my husband.  The man's ambiguity and duplicity (especially when it comes to initially fancying women) is a true-to-form trait for maleness.<br />The best part of the book is the last major segment: when dawn breaks and realization forms, and the character appropriately steps into the more meaningful, deeper, and difficult.  Like he says, 'I realize that what one likes and what one *is* like are two very different things.'  (I paraphrase, of course.)<br />For those that want to explore the 'New Lads' writerly set, Hornby's a great place to start.  You'll enjoy the romp through one normal guy's crazy life experiences.	2000-12-06
US	51773389	RCA0320E5ZA07	0962904910	346287931	Holiness, Truth and the Presence of God	Books	5	24	26	N	N	A signpost on the 'narrow road'...	For those who want a more intimate relationship with the Lord, for those who want a deeper, more meaningful walk in their faith, for those who need their hope in Christ rekindled afresh, this book is for you.<br />Mr. Frangipane is one of the best (if not 'the' best) modern-day Christian writers that we have been blessed with.  This book is likely his very best, and with good reason.  It focuses on the dynamic, essential, basic relationship believers have with their God.<br />The discourse on the holiness of God is astute - as is the message about the Truth.  The church needs to learn anew what the holiness of God is, what His reverent holy presence  means to us, and how we should rightly respond to said-same.<br />This is one of those titles that every Christian should have on their bookshelves, especially those who desire a more dynamic and vital relationship with the Lord.<br />Can't recommend this one highly enough.	2000-11-27
US	51773389	RN8SH23P7G1V7	0962904902	920858317	The Three Battlegrounds	Books	5	71	75	N	N	A must-have title	For those who are in the throes of spiritual warfare, or those who are studying the topic, this title is a must-have for your library.  It's not a long read, but it is a deep read - and one that you will find yourself coming back to time and again.<br />Mr. Frangipane is one of my all-time favorite Christian writers.  He rightly divides the Word and his wisdom abounds; his humble spirit is found in the essence of his writings.<br />This title, 'The Three Battlegrounds,' will reveal much to the reader on the three most difficult realms of living - with oneself, with one's fellow believers, and with the Lord.  The author is astute, with deep knowledge of the Word, and he ever draws the readers back to the source of their faith and love, Jesus Christ.<br />This is one of his best, though all of his writings are on the mark.  Be sure to pick up 'Holiness, Truth and the Presence of God' as well.  You won't be sorry!	2000-11-27
US	51773389	R1UFDPFSHXUSMI	0883684829	709679242	Epic Battles of the Last Days	Books	5	55	59	N	N	One of his best...	I've been reading Mr. Joyner for years, have stepped back from active ministry because of the very things he discusses in this book, and am now rekindled to pick up his works and read them afresh (no doubt, with a greal deal of new understanding and insight into the depth of the topics he boldly nails).<br />This title, 'Epic Battles of the Last Days,' I consider one of his strongest discourses.  The main theme is spiritual warfare, and that inside the church.  Reader, you will be challenged from every side, you will be called to test yourself against the measure of the Word, you will be prompted to review your personal lifestyle and relational patterns.  You will be uncomfortable, if you read this tome to reflect upon yourself.  <br />I have no doubt there will be those who read this book and see everyone else but themselves within the pages.  It's too bad, because those souls will lose out on the rich treasure-trove of wisdom that would serve to bolster their faith and strengthen their resolve to make a marked difference in Body life and ministry - one to another and to the world.  The points the author makes (and deconstructs, rebuilds) will serve to be practical application.  It's well done.<br />Mr. Joyner, keep following the Lord's voice for He's called you to speak forth a difficult message.  Even so, know that more and more are beginning to hear, and to listen.  This book is a much-needed blessing for the broken and battered Church the world over.	2000-11-27
US	51773389	R38H48R34N7JNB	0871138182	917956353	Truth and Bright Water	Books	5	20	22	N	N	This is one gem of a book...	For those who don't know this author, Thomas King is a Native American/Greek Canadian who daylights as an English Professor at the University of Guelph.  What he really shines at, though, is writing fiction.  And he's as genuine a voice in literature as the Native population could ask for. <br />This book, 'Truth and Bright Water' is a fabulous read - I was hooked in from the first sentence and didn't put the book down until I'd finished it.  Nine hours of marathon reading, in which I was totally absorbed in the lives of the characters. <br />Thomas has an outstanding ability to take his word arrangements and create pictures/emotions for his readers; I could actually envision the landscapes he described, and astutely knew the emotions and perceptions he was calling forth from his characters. <br />Tecumseh (especially) and Lum are two teenage cousins who roll through life - seemingly on the fringe but fully embroiled in the events and lives of those around them.  For Tecumseh, there's enlightenment and understanding, for Lum despair and alienation.  The supporting cast is sometimes a downer, but many of the characters are wacky and hilarious.  Another 'main' character in the book is Tecumseh's dog, Soldier, and the dog serves as a picture of the heart of Tecumseh's people, as does Tecumseh himself.  Though their way of life was crushed in many ways, their hope, bravery,  and stalwart endurance continues on. <br />King is a phenomenal observer of human character and what makes humanity tick - and this discernment shines through every word of the book.  As well, he turns society's impression of  'a dumb Indian' on its heels and reveals the complex insight and wisdom that Natives have and hold.  Their genuine character shines through brilliantly in each and every person featured in the book. <br />A fabulous read... and it's set me on a course to get the rest of King's books (he has a few now).  I surely do hope that Thomas King continues to write the stories that swirl about in his head.  He's a fabulous read - poignant, entertaining, provoking, prophetic, and insightful.  All the best of what the reader could hope for.  This title gets two big thumbs up from me.	2000-11-21
US	51773389	R1C3SKW7ORDFDO	0375501770	90327779	Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing	Books	5	52	58	N	N	Doing Time at Sing Sing...	A person needs to have a certain determination to do what author Ted Conover did: take a year out from one's life to go undercover and put one's neck on the line, literally. <br />Investigative journalist Conover took a big risk - his career, his family life, and even his life - to get the scoop on what life is like inside New York State's infamous Sing-Sing Prison... from a Correctional Officer's point of view. It makes for a most fascinating read. <br />Ted had tried the traditional route to get inside and have a look at life from behind bars, his target being the notorious Sing-Sing Penetentiary. However, he soon discovered that the media is not a welcome bunch and the stalwart institution (like all other max-security prisons throughout the country) makes sure that the press never get inside to have a peek. Not one to give up easily (and smelling a real story), Conover came up with the plan to go in undercover, as it were, as a legitimate, bona-fide, State-trained Correctional Officer. <br />And that is just what he did. <br />He went the route of CO training - a boot camp of sorts, a rough ride indeed - finding it very demanding and obtuse. Still, he persevered to the end, graduated, and waited for his call-up. He didn't have to wait long. The turnover rate of COs is high, and the inaugural training ground for almost all COs in the State of New York is the infamous prison he was targeting. <br />The book, NewJack: Guarding Sing Sing is the chronicle of Conover's year (he dedicated an entire year to experience the fulness of the prison experience) as a CO at the institution. The contents of the book are, in many ways, not surprising. Life is hard behind bars, for inmates and COs alike. There is a palpable aggression, a frustration at the procedures, and the interaction between inmate and prison guard (errrr, sorry, correctional officer), inmate and inmate, and CO and CO is perpetually tense and suspicious. <br />Those who are crime or psychology buffs will dig their teeth into this read and come away satisfied. Conover has done an outstanding job of revealing what everyday life - on the job and in the cell - is all about at Sing Sing. He gives wonderful description of the compound itself and what living conditions are really like inside. His historical account of the raising and implementing of the prision is, in itself, worth buying the book. <br />As well, he's done a great job on revealing the personality of Sing Sing - from the inception of the place right up to present day. It's an institution that has a rich and varied history, if not pristine and stellar. Sing Sing is a bastion of punishment, not all of it good or right or noble, and Conover has documented and presented such with a pretty fair stroke of the pen. <br />Though I found his commentary on the prison population a little heavy-handed and hyperbolic on occasion, I'm sure that couldn't be helped when the man was laying his life on the line everyday, going in to control the masses. He did, however, paint a fair picture of the life of a CO on the inside and outside. It's a hard job, and it has hard men and women occupying it. <br />And Conover made it to the end of the year. He survived the job, in all its quirks, and has given the rest of us on the outside a very rare glimpse at what life is like on the inside. And what a unique perspective it is, too. <br />I recommend this book to one and all who want to explore penology from a more relaxed, less academic, view and accounting. Great read, start to finish.	2000-11-01
US	51773389	R28D0R35YOS4AP	0847692906	752102075	The Soul Knows No Bars: Inmates Reflect on Life, Death and Hope	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Philosophy and Crime meet face to face...	What does one get when they cross a Philosophy Professor with a group of inmates sentenced to life? The answer is, not surprisingly, an incredible, tour-de-force read.   I came upon this title, &quot;The Soul Knows No Bars: Inmates Reflect on Life, Death, and Hope&quot; quite by accident, and what a treasure of a read it is. <br />Philosophy professor Drew Leder - with quite a life story of hid own - has compiled a rich and varied dialogue between himself and a handful of inmates from the Maryland Penetentiary. How he came to teach a philosophy class inside the prison walls is a story in itself, but it is the discussion and debate that broke forth in the midst of those classes that make this book a jewel. <br />As Sister Helen Prejean put it, &quot;Put a philosophy professor into a locked room with incarcerated thieves, drug dealers, and murderers, throw in Socrates, Nietzsche, Cornel West and Heidegger - and what do you get? Conversations that knock your socks off. A book you simply can't put down.&quot; I'm in agreement with the good Sister. <br />The book explores the dynamics of power, violence, race, and sexuality, as well as the flights of spirit possible even from a prison cell. The inmates (and Leder) took the texts of some of the greatest philosophical minds known, used those texts as springboards, and reflected on their life experiences. <br />The average law-abiding citizen will be surprised to hear what these men have drawn out and declared. This book is a rich exploration of our present-day's criminal mind. What got them to where they are, how they came to be of the mind they were when in criminal activity, and where they've come since incarcertaion is a fascinating journey through the soul. The book serves as a clarion call for society at large to re-examine our very fabric of social interaction, governing, and penalizing of our fringe members. <br />The discussions are enlightening, powerful, and (at times) disturbing. <br />What struck me most as I read through the words of this book is the incredible waste of intellect and potential - that which has been lost to poverty and drugs is nothing short of heartbreaking. <br />Though author Leder didn't set out to do this, he has shone the spotlight on the need for prison reform - to salvage and restore broken lives is nothing short of a necessity. Some of the greatest minds of our time could well be locked up behind bars. <br />This is a tremendous read and I recommend it to anyone who loves to explore life from a philosophical bent (Leder uses phenonmenology most often) and who wants to better understand the criminal mind. And it is for those who continue to hold out hope that reformation is possible even for the most hardened criminal. <br />Excellent read, from start to finish.	2000-11-01
US	51773389	RXSVRF7DGKK5T	0312261519	132682664	Elizabeth and After	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Smooth reading	I'm ashamed to admit that this is the first title of Cohen's I've read... my shame is because he's one of Canada's celebrated literary authors.  This is his last book before succumbing to lung cancer.<br />Cohen has a fresh and smooth writing style; the characters settle into your skull with ease and before you know it, you're fully engaged in their lives and interactions.<br />This title, apparently not his best but superb nonetheless, has a quirky cast of fascinating characters and Cohen has covered the dark terrain of the soul with aplomb.  While the protagonist, Carl McKelvey, isn't a knight in shining armour and does have a rather violent and checkered past, the reader will find him/herself rooting for Carl anyhow.  Ned will harken to all readers that young adult insecure bully, rich kid with no care or concern for anyone else.  And Elizabeth... Elizabeth will from the first enchant the reader.<br />This story reads like real life and one has to wonder just how much of self and self-experience Cohen incorporated into the story.<br />An easy read - an excellent writer; all in all a great book.	2000-10-09
US	51773389	R1OXP79094H24A	0940232693	623674393	Letters to a Devastated Christian	Books	5	60	61	N	N	Devastated souls will find healing in this book...	Gene Edwards is a master with the pen, and he has the heart of a shepherd to boot.  This man's anointed writings have done much to aide in the healing of the spirit of many.<br />I've read most of his works, but this book, 'Letters to a Devastated Christian,' is his tour-de-force.  It's a short read, but it is packed with a rich and manifold density.  His spare writing style is showcased in this piece; there is a tremendous motherlode of wisdom and discernment packed into few words.<br />The outlay of the book is engaging... letters from a mentor to a crushed young man.  The mentor doesn't try to sugar-coat the authoritarian abuses the young man has endured but instead uses them as stepping-stones to teach about issues such as suffering, humility and grace.  The wells of wisdom come through as a breeze, refreshing, not as a jarring assault to an already-wounded soul.  Edwards uses the Master to teach and show the higher way, the better way.<br />If you've ever been tormented at the hands of fellow believers then this book is for you.  There's a healing balm in its words.  It won't magically remove the pain inflicted upon you, nor give you rose-coloured perceptions regarding faith and fellowship, but it will help you understand that all things can be turned to good (hard as that is to believe)... and that the hardest things bring the biggest benefit to the maturing and deepening of one's faith.  It will set you on the healing path and encourage you to take the higher, better road in life.<br />Edwards is a shepherd/prophet speaking to the church at large - admonition and exhortation for one and all is seen in his writings.  Believers would do well to pay heed to his words.  I recommend this book to anyone and everyone who've gone through painful things in life, have been wounded deeply by fellow believers, or who just simply find life hard to live.  I'm sure you'll treasure this title as much as I do.	2000-10-08
US	51773389	R1JBOIBIN3EAXC	0830718966	757125689	What the Bible is All about	Books	5	44	46	N	N	An excellent study tool...	This book is a perennial favourite for Bible students and well it should be - Ms. Mears accomplished something in her day that likely hasn't been matched since, and did it when the field of theology was dominated almost exclusively by men.  Such fact attests that this book was divinely inspired.  When one begins to read through the text, they'll sense that divine guidance!<br />The book is &quot;a broad overview to help the reader see the Bible as a cohesive whole... how the books of the Bible fit together to form the entire Word of God.&quot;<br />If you're a bible student, brand new to study or seasoned, this is one of those must-have study titles for your library.  Mears systematically walks through the Scriptures, giving a history of the times covered in the writings, spiritual insights and interpretations into the text, and application for everyday living.  Her easy writing manner and style lend an exquisite charm and engages the reader to have interaction with the scriptures being dissected and discussed.<br />Not sure you should sit 'under' the teachings of a woman?  Think again and join the ranks of Billy Graham, Bill Bright and Richard Halverson, who count among those whom she mentored, trained and tutored on the Word.<br />Can't recommend this one highly enough.  Be blessed.	2000-10-08
US	51773389	RFMDZHEXWBMUX	1558194231	12818156	The Experiencing God Study Bible/New King James Version	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Excellent devotional study bible	This is likely one of the best study bibles out there for personal devotions and small study groups.  Henry Blackaby and Claude King open up and make alive the Scriptures - where real application to everyday life can be understood and made by the bible student!<br />When using this bible, the student quickly understands and sees that God continues to talk to us today.  The study tools incorporated into the tome are thought provoking and simple to apply.  One of the best features is the &quot;Prepare to Meet God&quot; and the &quot;Did You Notice?&quot; segments sprinkled throughout the scriptural text.  These tools help the student to understand that the spiritual life is real and doable.  These segments combine doctrine, history, and application with ease and they spark the faith of those who read them.<br />As well, at the back of the book there is a 'God Focus' section that defines the Doctrines of the faith - giving a definition, 'contents and context,' 'experiencing God,' 'a Fresh Encounter, and scriptural references to the particular doctrine highlighted and discussed.<br />This particular study bible is a must-have for those who want to gain a deeper understanding, have a better hold on, and a fresh encounter with the Lord, in His love, grace, wisdom, et al.<br />The bonus of this particular version is the New King James Version text... all the poetics of the Old King James updated and far more readable.  This one's a gem.<br />I highly recommend it to one an all.	2000-10-08
US	51773389	R2SM4JJDVKTZTD	0609605356	360307071	In Pursuit of Happiness : Better Living from Plato to Prozac	Books	5	15	17	N	N	The Cultural Philosopher takes on a big subject...	This is the first book by Professor Kingwell that I've read, but it certainly wasn't the last.  I wait patiently for each new book he puts out (since this, there's been 'Marginalia,' 'Millennium,' and his brand new release 'The World We Want') and am alwasy interested to see his particular bent on the topic he's chosen.<br />In Pursuit of Happiness is a rare thing - it's readable philosophy and its darn interesting.  Kingwell covers lots of ground, always exploring and exposing human nature.  This tome has a personal side as well... he discusses his own framework for happiness with the backdrp being his professional career.  <br />The reader will find his work serious, witty, funny, and always engaging.  If you've ever wanted to better understand what it means to be &quot;happy&quot;, truly happy, then this is a great place to start.  Kingwell will engage you and make you think.  In true philosophical form, he asks as many (if not more) questions than he answers... but as with classic philosophical pursuit, this isn't nearly as frustrating.<br />If you're big into cultural philosophy then this author is for you - I highly recommend his writings.	2000-10-08
US	51773389	R3QY1OWQ5NIR52	0785212167	163923895	Believer's Bible Commentary	Books	5	22	24	N	N	I love this commentary	I initially bought this commentary on a whim, thinking it would add some light flavor to my studies.  It has become one of my favorite commentaries, particularly with regards to the New Testament.<br />For those who are afraid that the 'commentating' in the book will be overly-scholarly and basically unreadable, relax.  It's a great read and easy to understand.  In fact, William MacDonald has done an outstanding job on making the Scriptures understandable.  The exposition and writing style remains consistent throughout, and the focus, of course, shines brightest on the Messianic passages, the Lord Himself, and the New Testament.<br />This title is an essential addition to the bible student's library.  If you only have a little money to spend on commentaries, then I recommend you start with this one.  It will serve you well.	2000-10-08
US	51773389	R2GQUOXV6GFBNN	067088216X	751906290	Home from the Vinyl Cafe: A year of stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An hilarious accounting of a year in the life...	McLean's book, 'Home from the Vinyl Cafe,' is a hoot from start to finish.  It's a sorry day in Canada that this title is now out of print, it really is.  McLean's a national treasure of humour.<br />If you do manage to find this title (I've got my fingers crossed for you), then beware - do not read this while on public transport or eating out.  You'll be laughing out loud, long and hard, from the get-go.  <br />The opening sequence is one of the funniest pieces of prose I've read in a long time; you will never look at Christmas dinner in the same light again.<br />McLean has an easy-going, conversational writing style that engages the reader immediately - he draws you in as a willing voyeur, anticipating the next hilarious calamity to strike the book's protagonist.<br />If you live in the north climes where it gets cold at night, the final sequence in the book will harken back your days of daring... ever stick your tongue to cold metal?  Not so funny for the poor soul who dares such trickery, hilarious for those who're watching.  <br />This book gets a big thumbs up - it's not a challenging read, but it's tremendous fun nonetheless!	2000-10-08
US	51773389	R3FPSU709RHYE6	0446519723	17564972	Where the Heart Is: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	This novel has heart...	This is a refreshing and entertaining read. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll laugh and cry at the same time. Its the story of Novalee Nation - a girl who has no luck with the number 7.<br />The tale spins masterfully through several crucial years of her life. This is a 'love triumphs' tale that isn't pie-in-the-sky stuff, but real life. You'll be drawn into the story, and you'll root for the characters. <br />First book I've read by Ms. Letts, but I think I'll keep an eye out for other titles that come from her! A reading!	2000-10-04
US	51773389	R2QRBC4MB0DC1F	092191296X	119139943	The Convict Lover. (A True Story)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Outstanding blend of fact and fiction...	This is a truly unique book. In 1987, a cache of letters, albums and clippings was discovered in the attic of a house in Kingston, Ontario, the bits and pieces of an unknown woman's life. Among the overflowing boxes and stuffed sugar sacks was a collection of letters from the months immediately after the First World War, a one-way correspondence written in pencil on flimsy paper. From this careless jumble of papers, there emerged unforgettable characters and an extraordinary story: a convict, a village girl, a penitentiary, and the town that lived in its shadow. The Convict Lover is a dazzling blend of historical detective work and imaginative recreation. You'll be spellbound by the relationship that unfolds through the very secretive, unconventional contacts made between one Joseph Cleroux and his link to the outside world, Phyllis Halliday. This book is an extraordinary stroke of literary good fortune. A wonderful read.	2000-10-04
US	51773389	R3IJT1XBP6KZR1	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A journey through dark souls...	This is a read that requires work, but the gems mined from its weaving of words makes it a worthwhile labour. Dealing with a post-WWII era, this is a unique expose on the lives of the German population in general, and the shame and dishonour they had blanket them in those times. <br />It is also a rich, deep, journey into the shame of one woman, who would rather bear judgement for war crimes than have her lifelong shame revealed. Compelling and provoking.	2000-10-04
US	51773389	R26C6P8L91BW7Z	0312180365	704608032	Alexander Solzhenitsyn: A Century in His Life	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Thomas hits the mark...	If you're a student or fan of the Russian poet/novelist, then this book is a must-read. It is a superb critical biography of the man who is a giant in the literary world. The book enlightens the reader on Solzhenitsyn's life and politics, in his timeless as well as his contemporary significance. <br />As is the subject of being written about, this is a giant read - 559 pages in hardcover edition. This is not only a finely wrought literary biography but also a chronicle of twentieth-century Russian history. <br />Thomas was masterful in his research, ferreting out the myriad substance that forms the great Russian author/writer.  A rich and rewarding read.	2000-10-04
US	51773389	RHE35Q7GJH2P1	092191296X	119139943	The Convict Lover. (A True Story)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Outstanding blend of fact and fiction...	This is a truly unique book. In 1987, a cache of letters, albums and clippings was discovered in the attic of a house in Kingston, Ontario, the bits and pieces of an unknown woman's life. Among the overflowing boxes and stuffed sugar sacks was a collection of letters from the months immediately after the First World War, a one-way correspondence written in pencil on flimsy paper. From this careless jumble of papers, there emerged unforgettable characters and an extraordinary story: a convict, a village girl, a penitentiary, and the town that lived in its shadow. The Convict Lover is a dazzling blend of historical detective work and imaginative recreation. You'll be spellbound by the relationship that unfolds through the very secretive, unconventional contacts made between one Joseph Cleroux and his link to the outside world, Phyllis Halliday. Excellent read. This book is an extraordinary stroke of literary good fortune. A wonderful read.	2000-10-04
US	51773389	RQ1ZJ59P4K0W6	0847692906	752102075	The Soul Knows No Bars: Inmates Reflect on Life, Death and Hope	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Philosophy of Crime...	What does one get when they cross a Philosophy Professor with a group of inmates sentenced to life? The answer is, not surprisingly, an incredible tour-de-force read.  I came upon this title, &quot;The Soul Knows No Bars: Inmates Reflect on Life, Death, and Hope&quot; quite by accident, and what a treasure of a read it is. <br />Philosophy professor Drew Leder - himself with quite a life story - has compiled a rich and varied dialogue between himself and a handful of inmates from the Maryland Penetentiary. How he came to teach a philosophy class inside the prison walls is a story in itself, but it is the discussion and debate that broke forth in the midst of those classes that make this book a jewel. <br />As Sister Helen Prejean put it, &quot;Put a philosophy professor into a locked room with incarcerated thieves, drug dealers, and murderers, throw in Socrates, Nietzsche, Cornel West and Heidegger - and what do you get? Conversations that knock your socks off. A book you simply can't put down.&quot; I'm in agreement with the good Sister. <br />The book explores the dynamics of power, violence, race, and sexuality, as well as the flights of spirit possible even from a prison cell. The inmates (and Leder) took the texts of some of the greatest philosophical minds known, used those texts as springboards, and reflected on their life experiences. <br />The average law-abiding citizen will be surprised to hear what these men have drawn out and declared. This book is a rich exploration of our present-day's criminal mind. What got them to where they are, how they came to be of the mind they were when in criminal activity, and where they've come since incarcertaion is a fascinating journey through the soul. The book serves as a clarion call for society at large to re-examine our very fabric of social interaction, governing, and penalizing of our fringe members. <br />The discussions are enlightening, powerful, and (at times) disturbing. <br />What struck me most as I read through the words of this book is the incredible waste of intellect and potential - that which has been lost to poverty and drugs is nothing short of heartbreaking. <br />Though author Leder didn't set out to do this, he has shone the spotlight on the need for prison reform - to salvage and restore broken lives is nothing short of a necessity. Some of the greatest minds of our time could well be locked up behind bars. <br />This is a tremendous read and I recommend it to anyone who loves to explore life from a philosophical bent (Leder uses phenonmenology most often) and who wants to better understand the criminal mind. And it is for those who continue to hold out hope that reformation is possible even for the most hardened criminal. <br />Excellent read, from start to finish.	2000-09-10
US	51773389	RARGNUYWH9FIR	0375501770	90327779	Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Journalist Does the Time, Without a Crime...	A person needs to have a certain determination to do what author Ted Conover did: take a year out from one's life to go undercover and put one's neck on the line, literally.  Investigative journalist Conover took a big risk - his career, his family life, and even his life - to get the scoop on what life is like inside New York State's infamous Sing-Sing Prison... from a Correctional Officer's point of view. It makes for a most fascinating read. <br />Ted had tried the traditional route to get inside and have a look at life from behind bars, his target being the notorious Sing-Sing Penetentiary. However, he soon discovered that the media is not a welcome bunch and the stalwart institution (like all other max-security prisons throughout the country) makes sure that the press never get inside to have a peek. Not one to give up easily (and smelling a real story), Conover came up with the plan to go in undercover, as it were, as a legitimate, bona-fide, State-trained Correctional Officer. <br />And that is just what he did. <br />He went the route of CO training - a boot camp of sorts, a rough ride indeed - finding it very demanding and obtuse. Still, he persevered to the end, graduated, and waited for his call-up. He didn't have to wait long. The turnover rate of COs is high, and the inaugural training ground for almost all COs in the State of New York is the infamous prison he was targeting. <br />The book, &quot;NewJack: Guarding Sing Sing&quot; is the chronicle of Conover's year (he dedicated an entire year to experience the fulness of the prison experience) as a CO at the institution. The contents of the book are, in many ways, not surprising. Life is hard behind bars, for inmates and COs alike. There is a palpable aggression, a frustration at the procedures, and the interaction between inmate and prison guard (errrr, sorry, correctional officer), inmate and inmate, and CO and CO is perpetually tense and suspicious. <br />Those who are crime or psychology buffs willdig their teeth into this read and come away satisfied. Conover has done an outstanding job of revealing what everyday life - on the job and in the cell - is all about at Sing Sing. He gives wonderful description of the compound itself and what living conditions are really like inside.  His historical account of the raising and implementing of the prision is, in itself, worth buying the book. <br />As well, he's done a great job on revealing the personality of Sing Sing - from the inception of the place right up to present day. It's an institution that has a rich and varied history, if not pristine and stellar. Sing Sing is a bastion of punishment, not all of it good or right or noble, and Conover has documented and presented such with a pretty fair stroke of the pen. <br />Though I found his commentary on the prison population a little heavy-handed and hyperbolic on occasion, I'm sure that couldn't be helped when the man was laying his life on the line everyday, going in to control the masses. He did, however, paint a fair picture of the life of a CO on the inside and outside. It's a hard job, and it has hard men and women occupying it. <br />And Conover made it to the end of the year. He survived the job, in all its quirks, and has given the rest of us on the outside a very rare glimpse at what life is like on the inside. And what a unique perspective it is, too. <br />I recommend this book to one and all who want to explore penology from a more relaxed, less academic, view and accounting. Great read, start to finish.	2000-09-10
US	51773389	R1GI8J4S30Z0ZG	0312171838	697819185	Bachelor Brothers' Bed & Breakfast	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A superb read	I was browsing the local (independant) bookstore shelves the other day and this little gem veritably leapt off the shelves into my hand.  I read over  the back cover and was sufficiently intrigued to carry it to the till and  purchase it.  I must say it's one of the best buys I've made in a long  time.  This book has been described as whimsical - I find this little  paperback a work of comic genius.  It is no surprise to me that it was  awarded the Stephen Leacock Award... it's a well deserved win.  <br />The  ever-endearing Canadian charm that holds us in high esteem about the world  shines through this brilliant penning.  It is laugh-out-loud funny...  particularly the eccentric Mrs. Rochester.  One of my fave sections of the  book is the birthday serenade by bagpipes.  Thankfully I hadn't finished my  coffee and needed a toilet break whilst reading that segment.  Brilliant  writing and my kudos to Mr. Richardson.  I look forward to reading more of  his work.  'Bachelor Brothers' has instantly become one of my all-time  favorite novels.  Can't recommend this title highly enough!	2000-08-13
US	51773389	R1G4O4JO7K6N3X	0684863472	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work Of Staggering Genius : A Memoir Based on a True Story	Books	5	23	30	N	N	A unique read from start to finish...	The reviews are mixed, and understandably so.  This is a work that refuses to be pigeon-holed and so I'm sure many a reviewer didn't know what to make of the writing. <br /> For me, this was a stroke of genius.  The title isn't  overblown or off the mark.  Eggers has created something like nothing else  out there.  He's vicariously allowed us into the center of his life and  taken us along for the ride - in all its guts'n'glories.  I especially  enjoyed the preamble - brilliant stuff.  One of my fave sections of the  book was his dialogue/interview with 'Karen' for his audition for 'The Real  World' television show.  In that segment, Eggers lays himself bare and is  vulnerable to all... and I'm sure endeared many a reader to himself. <br />  Often poignant in all its brutal honesty, often hilarious simply because of  his witty and dry perspective on life in general, I enjoyed this book from  start to finish. <br /> Though Eggers himself says the book is 'weak' beyond  page 100, I have to disagree.  He carries us through a real life, and it  reads just like real life.  Except Eggers makes real life real interesting  and engaging. <br /> It's a one-of-a-kind read, and I'm sure there'll be a  parade of wannabe bios come along and attempt to copy this book.  They  won't succeed, of course, because the essence of Eggers is his alone.   Excellent stuff and well worth a perusal.	2000-07-09
US	51773389	R1KR4KSH1QK4BJ	0380842939	611242480	Sacajawea (Lewis & Clark Expedition)	Books	5	45	49	N	N	Amazing woman, amazing book...	If you're a fan of historical fiction, this is a must-read title. <br />  Waldo has done a superb job in relaying the true story of Sacjawea - Lewis  &amp; Clark's guide (and she was oh so much more...).  This is a HUGE  fictional, yes, but you'll be so absorbed - veritably transported to the  time and place - you'll not notice, trust me! <br /> When I got to the end of  the book, it was with a sense of accomplishment (it's over 1400 pages) and  some regret that it was over (I didn't want it to end!)... mixed feelings,  for sure.  This is one of my all-time fave fiction titles.  Can't recommend  it highly enough!	2000-07-09
US	51773389	RXKVDEOVDQ5EZ	0345380746	389986380	Long Knife	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Superb	I read this book years ago, but the story of George Rogers Clark has  stayed with me.  Thom is one of those rare authors that can paint pictures  with his masterful weaving of words.  A fictional presentation of a  real-life hero, a man who accomplished amazing things and lived and  outstanding life - and he is one that has long been overshadowed in the  history books to a degree by his younger brother's feats (William Clark,  famed adventurer of the Lewis &amp; Clark team). <br /> Thom has done a superb  job of showcasing George Rogers Clark in this book.  It's an outstanding  read and could well set the reader on an adventure for more historical  fiction from this fine author.  Be sure to check out 'From Sea to Shining  Sea' as well.	2000-07-09
US	51773389	R3M9G91OC7NA45	0515099279	905659195	The Bastard	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Get ready for an epic ride...	Jakes has created a mass following with the Kent Family Chronicles and  this is the book that started it all.  He is, by far, one of the best  historical fiction writers around. <br /> For a grand journey - through the  eyes of the Kent family - from the beginnings of a nation to its epic rise  as a world power, this series does an outstanding job of presenting history  through a rough-n-ready fictional family. <br /> The book is unputdownable,  and you'll be on a hunt for #2 through #8 once you're done. <br /> I must give  credit to Jakes for kick-starting my love of reading again after my teen  years in literary wasteland (i.e. not reading) because it was this series  that turned me back on to the written word with a ferver. <br /> A great buy  and a great read.	2000-07-09
US	51773389	R1UEV80DBSY53G	157322149X	465406313	The American President: The Human Drama of Our Nation's Highest Office	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Big book... big topic...	As a Canadian, I cannot fully judge on the accuracy of all information  presented in this massive tome, but I can say that it is a most enjoyable  read.  You'll find that when you start to flip through this BIG book,  you'll have a hard time putting it down. <br /> The presentation is not  chronological and it made for interesting comparison of the 41 men who've  risen to the top of American politics.  The photos... oh the photos!  This  is an outstanding collection and the book is well worth the purchase for  the photo essays alone.  Some of these pictures, I've seen - we've all seen  'em, they're famous - but the vast majority are not oft seen images, many  of them presenting a most personal side to each man. <br /> I learned lots I  didn't know about American politics and the office of the President in  general.  This is a book to have for the library.  A great reference and a  great read.	2000-07-09
US	51773389	R1N6GISQCJ1UP2	0914936530	750770646	Vanguard Leader	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sharp, discerning, and Spirit-inspired	Frank Damazio's 'The Vanguard Leader' is one of the best-written books of its kind.  The author takes his readers into the Word (richly into it) and explains what the &quot;vanguard&quot; leader of the Church is truly to be.    <br /> Superb teaching, done with love and authority perfectly blended, the  book is invaluable to all who've been called to leadership in the Church.  <br /> It's not all high praises; it is carefully balanced and clearly voices  a clarion warning of the pitfalls of leadership as well as what to watch  for in those who purport to be called to ministry but are false teachers  (he takes the reader into the book of Jude and gives a clear picture of  what to look for). <br /> This book veritably jumped off the shelf at me, and  its one of my treasured tomes.  I pull it out on occasion to be reminded  afresh of the Lord's call for a vanguard of leadership to take His Church  forward in victory.  Buy a copy for yourself and get one for your church  library and/or your pastor/priest.  Excellent buy, you'll not regret  getting it.	2000-06-29
US	51773389	R1CPQ3JJFIBTZA	1556611609	72085696	The Subtle Power of Spiritual Abuse	Books	5	25	27	N	N	One of the best on the topic	Only those who've endured spiritual abuse could fully understand and appreciate with clarity the message of this book. <br /> For me, it is an anointed message and has helped to preserve my faith from being totally  shipwrecked by the chaos endured under an authoritarian and abusive church  leadership. <br /> For those who think this has become the latest  psychological 'fad' to follow, a scapegoat philosophy to buy out of  obedience, you're wrong.  The Church is in the middle of a spiritual  warfare battle unseen down through the ages.  We shouldn't be surprised as  the Scriptures clearly reveal this will be so.   <br /> What better way for  the enemy to destroy the witness of the saints than to do so from within,  through abuse of leadership and authority.   <br /> This book nails difficult  and controversial topics about the church and church leadership, with  clarity, compassion and insight.  As well, the author(s) warn over and over  that the subject is not to be arbitrarily applied to every dissension and  dissatisfaction of churchgoers.  They are addressing an habitual and  destructive style and outworking of those in leadership... those who don't  build up the flock entrusted to them, but weaken them and tear down their  faith and their ministries. <br /> This is a clarion warning for the entire  church.  This book should be required reading in the seminaries where our  future pastors are learning the ways of leadership. <br /> I speak from  experience - I survived an incredibly abusive and coersive fellowship.  90%  of us have, over time, walked away from that fellowship which had been our  spiritual 'home' for our entire lives.  Many of those now have a faith that  is in tatters.  The walking wounded in the Body of Christ are myriad on the  cusp of the Millennium, and this book gives partial explanation as to why.  <br /> To all church leaders and those in ministry at any level:  get this  book, read it soberly and carefully.  You'll not be sorry you did.	2000-06-28
US	51773389	R29DDTDHJ2G11V	0767902874	723899252	How to Be a Great Lover: Girlfriend-to-Girlfriend Totally Explicit Techniques That Will Blow His Mind	Books	5	70	76	N	N	Wanna spice up your love life?	If you want to fine-tune your sexual prowess between the sheets, or spice up your love life a little, then this book is for you. <br /> Author Lou Paget doesn't hold back and gives some of the best tips'n'tricks on pleasing your  man.  I bought this book on a whim - I found that I'd already discovered  some of the 'tricks' on my own - and was pleasantly suprised to find some  oft-not-talked-about topics of foreplay. <br /> This was an informative (and  fun!) read... best read when the two of you are in bed and feeling  adventurous and ready to explore.  We laughed, and he moaned... and moaned.   And begged for more. <br /> If you think sex between husband and wife is  boring, dull, unpleasurable then go get yourself a copy of this book.  You  won't after you've tried some of the tips in this tome.   <br /> Get the book,  go play, and have fun!	2000-06-28
US	51773389	R3453JDT6COK5R	0140067477	446789245	The Tao of Pooh	Books	5	356	376	N	N	One of my all-time favorites	I was introduced to this book a couple of years ago - had seen it on the shelf of the bookstore for years, thought about buying it and never did... and then I received it as a gift. <br /> Without question, it's one of the  best books I've read.  It's not for its literary flow, academic  presentation, entertaining style, or subject matter that I love this little  book.  I love it because it's a calm, smooth blend of all of the above. <br />  The book does an outstanding job of presenting and explaining the basic  tenets of Taoism.  I laughed out loud several times over the experiences of  poor Eeyore (oh, how I can relate!).  If you'd like a quick dissertation of  different philosophical views and personality styles, The Tao of Pooh does  so through the showcasing of Pooh and his friends. <br /> I'm not sure who Mr.  Hoff's target audience was, but this is a book for young and old alike...  all will gain something from reading through the book. <br /> In fact, Mr.  Hoff penned this book so well it stirred my desires to read once again  Milne's classic title The Adventures of Pooh with a new light and  perception. <br /> This is an excellent title to add to your permanent  library, whether you embrace Taoism or not.  Its message of peace and  tolerance is one that all faiths can understand and embrace - and well they  should. <br /> Can't recommend this one highly enough.	2000-06-28
US	51773389	R22PCXJQ5XLTGU	070116512X	370433518	Different for Girls: How Culture Creates Women	Books	3	0	5	N	N	a maddening read...	I received this book as a gift several years ago, and started into it with some anticipation... the topic seemed most intriguing. <br /> While it is well written, it is a book that will spark emotions on all levels.  Much of what  the author perceives and shares I do not agree with.  She writes with an  overly-preachy and arrogant air and maybe she has felt compelled to do so.  <br /> This book certainly does not speak for my generation (30somethings) and  younger generations.  Some of the issues Joan Smith deals with in the book  are non-issues for women today. <br /> If this title had been written 25-30  years ago, it would have made waves and been highly praised I'm sure.  What  it does today, however, is rehash women's issues of the 60s that are no  longer relevant in today's society (at least here in the western world).  <br /> I didn't care for this dissertation and have only scored it a '3'  because it was so incredibly provoking at times I wanted to pitch the book  across the room.  For that it deserves a halfway decent rating. <br /> Buy the  book if you want to be provoked... skip it if you'd rather not beat an  already-dead horse.	2000-06-28
US	51773389	R18PGX0RGE1524	1550546007	80062904	Why I Hate Canadians	Books	5	16	21	N	N	An important voice for our generation...	Will Ferguson is an important voice emerging from my generation.  This book was unputdownable, and I think the big reason was that the author put to paper my adolescence and young adulthood (he and I are the same age and  remember exactly the same things, it seems). <br /> Don't let the title of  this book fool you - Mr. Ferguson actually has a secret love affair with  his home country going on in the background... and all the warning signs  are revealed as one reads through the pages of this book.<br /><br /> In the  oh-so-atypical-typical self-deprecating style of that which makes Canadians  so Canadian, Will has deftly revealed the heart'n'soul of his fellow  countrymen through our bizarre osmosis-style of taking in pop culture and  deviant political practices from other countries and making them uniquely  our own.  But Canada has also generated some original 'content' as well,  and Ferguson lovingly rips those things to shreds as well. <br /> His humour  is sharp, his wit equally sharp, and his observation of all things Canadian  is dead on the mark. <br /> A great read, this book... and it's started me on  a literary oddyssey with Mr. Ferguson's work.  I always browse the shelves  for his latest tomes and never hesitate to pick up a copy for myself.  <br />Great read - go get yourself a copy!	2000-06-25
US	51773389	R20QWE4J6CI1YX	0132630885	404604807	Mondo Canuck: A Canadian pop culture odyssey	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Pop-Canuckisms for a modern culture...	Got this book when it first came out, expecting it to be 90% filler and 10% interesting.  I was pleasantly suprised. <br /> Pevere and Dymond did their homework... either that, or they've overdosed on Candian pop culture  since they were knee-high to grasshoppers. <br /> I found myself chuckling  lots as I flipped through the pages of the book, and occassionally laughed  out loud, long and hard.  With chapter titles such as &quot;Space Oddity:  How William Shatner Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Future&quot; and  &quot;Porky's (the movie): Canada Pigs Out,&quot; the reader can be dazzled  - and baffled - by the trivia, humour, and obscure facts'n'fallacies of the  Canadian contribution to our present culture and entertainment intake. <br />  I recommend this read, if you've a slightly skewered perception of the  world, are a massive pop-culture trivia fan (there's lots in this book  you'll be interested in learning!), and want a fresh view of what Canada  and Canadians are about. <br />   Too bad it's out of print, but maybe if  there's enough interest, the publisher will do a new print-run of the book,  and Pevere and Dymond will add some new tid-bits of fascinating info  (geee...... Celine's FINALLY pregnant!) in a post-script chapter of Canada  coming into the new millennium. <br /> Entertaining read.	2000-06-25
US	51773389	R3K1SRQ6YKPCY9	0785245308	487674819	Handbook For Spiritual Warfare Revised And Updated Edition	Books	5	84	88	N	N	Not a light topic and not a light read...	If you're looking for some solid teaching/understanding about the issues of demons, demonic oppression and possession, and deliverance then this tome is one of the best buys you could make.  I've had this book in my  library for years (bought it when it first came out and have the hardcover  edition) and have read it front to back several times over. <br /> Dr. Murphy  has put together a strong, informative, and biblical presentation.  As  noted in an eariler review, this is not a light read.  There's no way a  topic such as this could be a light read!  The book tackles such topics as  'oppression vs. possession,' ritual abuse, multiple personality disorders,  and various other difficult and confusing issues.  He clearly details what  demonic influence is like and how it acts and then takes the reader into  the Word to show them the tools of their spiritual warfare and how to use  them effectively. <br /> As a theology student who has completed a course on  spiritual warfare for my studies, this book was invaluable in study and  essay-writing.  As a believer who wants to be informed and rightly wielding  the Sword of Truth, this book is a necessary and valued part of my library.  <br /> 'Tis good to see the book in paperback edition now, making it more  affordable for a wider reading audience. <br /> Spiritual warfare, by  definition, can be a scary issue for many, but with Dr. Murphy's concise  and clear teachings and explanations the veil of confusion is lifted and  'solid ground' is found by the reader.  Can't recommend this title highly  enough.	2000-06-08
US	51773389	R2P7G1TMX9MOFK	1565071735	989539990	How to Study Your Bible	Books	5	47	51	N	N	Excellent study tool...	I've been a Precept student for over a decade now, and there's nothing like this.  In fact, this tool is so good (as are Precept's study courses) that seminarys across NA recognize it as solid... some will even transfer  Precept courses for accreditation towards a degree.  If you want to get  serious about your time in the Word and want to find meat instead of fluff,  then this is the best place you could start - learning how to interpret and  apply the Scriptures for yourself.  The methods that Precept Ministries  teach are solid and true - the novice to the scholar can can benefit from  this form of study method.  This book shows you how to do everything from  word studies to structured analysis of text.  Excellent stuff through and  through and highly rewarding for the serious Bible student.  Get a copy and  dig in!	2000-05-25
US	51773389	R259BOXEW9S3VN	1565070917	101890010	International Inductive Study Bible: New American Standard Bible	Books	5	84	85	N	N	One of the best out there...	As far as study bibles go, this is the best that I've used, and I've used many over the years.  As a theology student, this particular version of the Word is the best there is for inductive study... I've had my (first edition  Multnomah) IISB since its first release and as far as study goes, it's my  main bible.  For those familiar with the inductive study method, you'll  appreciate the layout of the text, the extra-wide margins for  notes/insights, and the various tables and explanations that are found in  the edition.  As far as study goes, the NASB is one of the best  translations to use as its transliteration stays true to the original  languages.  Kay Arthur and team have done an outstanding job at putting  together a textual tool that, once in the hands of students, is the best  there is for said same students to dig into the Word and &quot;feed&quot;  themselves.  If you're a serious student of the Bible then I cannot  recommend highly enough that you get yourself a copy of this bible and  learn the Inductive Study Method.  You'll never look back and your  spiritual life will forever be transformed.  Be prepared to enter the  Throne Room!	2000-05-25
US	51773389	R2Q2TNJ17MYBMZ	0394404289	377400426	The Prophet (A Borzoi Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Superb	This is Gibran's most celebrated work and it is so with goodreason.  It is a profound insight and expose into the human characterand the emotions that work within the heart and soul.  Humble words,seared with the heights and depths of love and of pain, this is a life-changing arrangement of words.  If I had to sum the book up in one word, it would be &quot;SUBLIME.&quot; If you're picking up this title, be sure to order Gibran's 'The Beloved' to go along with it. These are books that deserve a worthy and permanent place on your bookshelf.	2000-05-03
US	51773389	R3UDGFQCOFEM9H	014019553X	675572194	The Beloved: Reflections on the Path of the Heart (Compass)	Books	5	48	48	N	N	Prose that reads as beautiful poetry...	My first venture into the words of Gibran was his most famous work, 'The Prophet.'  Wonderful as it was, I must say that I prefer this piece of writing by far.  What I found most astounding is that this was penned when he was a very young man!  These are the words of an old soul who has tasted  the heights and depths of the realm of love embraced and love lost.  The  language is musical, spare, deep... each word carefully chosen and  perfectly placed (I speak of this particular translation of the original  work).  It is a short read but powerful and deeply impacting.  This one is  worthy of a permanent place on your bookshelf.	2000-05-03
US	51773389	R38O4RP96L41TB	0962485780	369751894	1: Death Row	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Interesting read...	This is an interesting compilation of information regarding Death Row across the USofA.  The publication is set up tabloid-style... I'm not sure if that was a deliberate move, but it made the reading of the material a little easier to take in.  Lots of stats and facts.  Lots of tid-bits  sprinkled throughout the book.  This isn't a scholarly work, nor does it  attempt to be.  It's a compilation of data.  The best part of the book is  the half-dozen or so profiles.  They give in-depth looks into the crimes  and the criminals.  Though the book purports to be neither for nor against  capital punishment, it definitely has a pro-capital punishment slant.  This  is a great choice for the true crime buff, or those actively involved in  the capital punishment issue (either side will benefit from this).  Macabre  reading at its strangest.	2000-05-03
US	51773389	RGG07AX6BJF0V	0375402497	864507735	Why They Kill: The Discoveries of a Maverick Criminologist	Books	5	22	25	N	N	The Maverick hits the mark...	I've read a fair share of the latest crop of books on the topic of violence and the criminal mind, and this book is in the top five.  Rhodes has done a stellar job in presenting the theories and findings of criminologist Lonnie Athens.  I'm in contact with some of the country's  worst criminals - those that sit on Death Row.  This book has been most  beneficial in understanding the hows and whys that landed these people  there.  If you're interested in understanding how the criminal mind works  and want to read a book that you can actually understand and process, this  is the book for you.  Written for both the professional and the layman,  this is a wealth of insight into what makes a mind go criminal, and why  violent actions result.  Excellent work, Dr. Athens - you have my highest  praise.  Oustanding writing, Mr. Rhodes.  I look forward to your next work.	2000-05-03
US	51773389	R2I47KB496NAEX	038549341X	277823768	Actual Innocence: Five Days to Execution, and Other Dispatches From the Wrongly Convicted	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Must-Read for anyone concerned about Justice	I picked this title up on the weekend, and have been engrossed in it ever since.  What the authors showcase reveals the appalling state of the judicial system in the USofA.  From 'snitch' testimony being the backbone of a case - to the warped and twisted serologists who've framed numerous  individuals with crimes they didn't commit, the contents of this writing  will shake the reader to the core.  If it doesn't... then you don't likely  have a pulse.  There's a grass-roots movement regarding crime and  punishment - and well there should be, given what is reported in  &quot;Actual Innocence&quot;.  The Law needs a shakedown, and the public  needs to call for it.  I highly recommend this intelligent and articulate  presentation of a very controversial subject.  As Sir William Hamilton once  said, &quot;The truth, like a torch, when it's shook it shines.&quot;   Here's to the truth shining bright as day upon all the dark nooks and  crannies of the American judicial system (and beyond!).  Kudos to the  authors, who've held their torch high and are shining a beacon across the  land.	2000-03-14
US	51773389	R1BSU11M3VUJ5F	0385257023	317256062	The Handless Maiden	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A smashing debut novel	Loranne Brown has blazed onto the Candian literary scene with an emotional saga that triumphs.  Honest, blunt, sometimes stark, sometimes soft as silk, this book will be hard to put down once you start.  The author  quickly draws the reader into the life and tale of Mariah Standhoffer.  The  book is an expose of the inner world of a young girl as she comes-of-age  and moves beyond the foundation of abuse and disappointment.  Compelling,  intriguing, and at times disturbing, its an excellent foray in the psyche  of the wounded heart.  The main character is flawed, real, intelligent, and  ultimately peaceable with herself.  Excellent, excellent, excellent.  Can't  recommend this one highly enough.  Way to go, Loranne!	1999-03-23
US	51773389	RTW4707K9DFPK	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An excellent read... disturbing yet provocative.	I picked this book up not realizing it was one of Oprah's book club picks. Once I started the book, I couldn't put it down. Mr. Schlink's writing style is unique and refreshing. His perspective and presentation of the  story is detached and without judgement. The tale allows the reader to draw  his/her own conclusion on the subject and it is intellectually provoking. I  look forward to more titles from Mr. Schlink. He is unique. I recommend the  book highly!	1999-03-20
US	51773389	R37XNP87C3W9MJ	0140231730	660889022	The White Hotel	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A brilliantly disturbing story on humanity's darkest hours.	His greatest literary work to date has taken the most reprhensible crimes against humanity and conveyed them through a sexual psychosis background/dialogue.  The disturbing brilliance of that provokes the reader  to examine oneself individually, and to judge humanity corporately.  This  book is not for the light-hearted.  It is profound and deeply intellectual  while at the same time subtle and emotionally challenging.  One cannot read  this book and not have some kind of emotional reaction to it.  Upon my  first read-through (this is a book that takes several reads to fully absorb  all the nuances and insights), I was disturbed by its presentation.  On the  second read-through, I was amazed by the artistry of the picture painted by  the words written.  This novel will have a forceful impact upon the reader.   You will come away fully embracing the writing or standing in judgement of  the writer.  There are no inbetween views.  This novel takes the story of a  young woman as she lives life in the midst of the Holocaust, and conveys  the depravaties, the dehumanizing activities, the destructions that were  exerted against humanity.  A unique combination of massive war crimes and  psycholanalysis makes this a book near impossible to put down.  If you want  a true challenge in your reading, if you want to be provoked out of your  personal comfort zone, if you want something to deeply ponder, then look no  further than The White Hotel.  You'll go to that place and not return the  same individual.	1999-03-20
US	51773389	R1PG8QOWCX96WS	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Outstanding!	This book is a jewel.  It's rich, funny, honest and displays real-life struggles brilliantly.  Author Billie Letts is a gifted writer that draws her readers fully into her stories.  A+ reading!	1999-03-20
