US	51777432	RROFWC7F93GJO	0380820560	192288870	Off Limits	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Very Good Story!!....Silly Cover	Emma Frey and Bobby Halloran are police detectives in the city of New Orleans.  Emma had just been on the job for a week when she was teamed up with Bobby to solve a robbery case.  The case turns out to be more than a simple robbery when dead bodies start showing up.<br />This book was on my \\"to be read\\" pile for a few months before I finally got around to reading it.  From here on out, Michele Albert's books get placed on the top of the pile.  I was very impressed with her style of writing.  Especially Emma's character.  She is intelligent, sexy and a strong character that takes the lead when necessary.  Bobby is smart, sexy, gentle, caring and not afraid to admit that he is burnt out and needs some help.  <br />I got more than I expected from this book.  A well-written and very real police story, great characters, sexy love scenes.  What more could you ask for.  Maybe a better cover?	2004-02-23
US	51777432	RRWETJFO5SMFR	0312303467	15622163	Bet Me	Books	1	20	39	N	N	Tiresome!!	As the story opens, Minerva Dobbs is being dumped by her boyfriend in a bar.  Later Min hears her ex making a bet with Calvin Morrisey.  David bets that Cal cannot get Min into bed within a month's time.  The bet is $10,000. but Min thought she heard $10.  Furious, Min decides to use Cal for a month because she now needs a date for her sister's wedding.  When Cal introduces himself and asks her out to dinner, she accepts.  During dinner she realizes that she may not be able to hold out against this handsome man and decides to scrap her plan but fate will continue to throw these two together.<br />I read another book by this author entitled \\"Welcome To Temptation\\" and I did not like it.  I will always give an author another try so when I read the first chapter of \\"Bet Me\\", I thought I was in for a good read.  Well, halfway through I was again bored with these quirky characters.  I am not a sourpuss or a prude and I love \\"Sex In The City\\" but all these characters really needed to get a life.  Min is voluptuous and is constantly bemoaning her weight.  Min's mother constantly reminds her about her weight.  Cal is a hit and run lover who cannot commit to a woman.  One friend, Bonnie is living in a fairy tale world.  Min's sister, Diana, is not a happy bride.  Min's mother is a pain in the butt.  Cal's mother is a self-centered witch. And we hear the same things over and over and over.  The love scene finally arrives at the end of the book and that also is a big letdown.  <br />I now realize that there is no sitting on the fence with this author.  You either like or dislike her work.	2004-02-12
US	51777432	R3891XYXUPB2TV	0399150730	996286807	Truth or Dare (Krentz, Jayne Ann)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Good Sequel!	&quot;Truth Or Dare&quot; is the sequel to &quot;Light In Shadow&quot;.<br />Many of the characters from &quot;Light In Shadow&quot; return and there is a lot going on in this story.  A) Ethan and his family deal with the third anniversary of his brother's kidnap and murder, B) the growing attraction between Ethan's sister-in-law, Bonnie and biker, bookstore owner, computer expert Singleton Cobb, C) Ethan looks into solving the old mystery of writer Walter Kirwan's death and missing manuscript, D) Grant Loring, Arcadia's husband, is trying to eliminate her, E) Zoe must deal with a person from her past, F) Can Zoe and Ethan make their marriage work?, G) Zoe has interior decorating competition in the form of Lindsey Voyle, H) Is Nelson Radnor's wife having an affair?<br />  This is just a little of what is happening in this very busy novel.  The story is so busy that there is very little time for romance but the author does a good job weaving the story that you really don't notice it.  Now that Ethan and Zoe are married, there is a different approach to the romantic segment of the book.<br />  The writing is fast-paced, easy to read and precise.  All loose ends are tied up with a heartwarming finish except one tiny issue that dogged Ethan and Zoe throughout the book.  You will have to read it to find out what it is.<br />  I was delighted with this very entertaining read.  I would like to read more Whispering Springs novels in the future.	2004-01-15
US	51777432	R25VKYSC9B53I	0345453417	554884676	Cry No More	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Worth The Wait!!	In 1993, Milla Boone and her husband were living in Mexico.  David Boone is a surgeon and went to Mexico to volunteer a year's service at a free clinic.  One day while shopping at the market, two thugs approached Milla and ripped six week old Justin from her arms.  She fought back and scarred one man for life and for her efforts she was stabbed and left to die.  Milla was rushed to the clinic where her husband saved her life.<br />After recovering, Milla had one goal in life and that was to find her son.  Relentless in her ten-year search, she and David divorce and Milla starts the organization called &quot;Finders&quot;.  Their mission is to find lost or stolen children and eventually branches out to find any missing person.  Milla does well finding lost loved ones of others but she cannot find her son.  Why?<br />She finally comes in contact with James Diaz, an undercover bounty hunter/assassin.  Diaz agrees to help her search for her son and she makes progress after ten years of following tips that end up going nowhere.<br />That's all I'm going to say about the story because I don't want to include any spoilers but there is so much more.<br />It's been eighteen months since Linda's last book and if you are a fan of hers as I am, the time seemed like forever.  But it was well worth the wait.  If you have never read any of her books I would recommend you try this excellent story and get out your tissues.	2003-11-18
US	51777432	RF9SA14XIZ4M0	0743245520	976518630	Hello, Darkness (Brown, Sandra)	Books	4	78	85	N	N	Very Good Read!!	After a tragic accident, Paris Gibson left her career as a Houston TV reporter, moved to Austin and became the areas most popular radio talk show host.  One night a frequent caller, named Valentino, vented his anger at Paris because she persuaded his girlfriend to leave him.  Incensed, he threatened to murder the girl within 72 hours.  Her gut instinct tells her this call is no hoax and Paris contacts the Austin Police Department.  It is at this time that she is reunited with former lover, Dean Malloy, the Department's crime phychologist.  Along with the APD, Paris and Dean begin a race against time to save the young woman's life.<br />I have been a Sandra Brown fan for many years.  She rarely disappoints me.  This latest effort, Hello Darkness, is headed for the best-seller list.  The story is awesome and I never use that word lightly.  Brown weaves a story of teenagers involved with a Sex Club website.  These kids communicate with members by posting messages on the website and meeting with anyone who stirs their interest.  Mostly strangers.  The founder of the site, a judge's daughter, is kidnapped when she tried to break up with a member who became obsessed with her.<br />The subject matter may offend some readers but the story is too good to pass on.  It is a well-plotted thriller, with a dash of romance, that kept me on the edge of my seat.  Unlike some of her recent books, Brown does not reveal who the kidnapper is until the very end.  There are several suspects and she keeps you guessing.  I have to rate Hello Darkness as one of the best stories I've read this year.	2003-10-23
US	51777432	RVNEDCLRETWD9	0671525751	187406427	Someone to Watch Over Me : A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very Entertaining!!	While attempting to meet with her husband in the Catskills, Broadway Superstar Leigh Kendall(a.k.a. Mrs. Logan Manning), drives into an unexpected snowstorm.  After an accident which should have killed her, she pulls herself to the side of the road where she is rescued and taken to a local hospital.  In the following days Leigh learns that her husband is missing and eventually is found murdered.  She cannot comprehend why anyone would want to [do away with] her husband who is well-liked.  Leigh and her husband have been married about thirteen years and she is about to discover that she really didn't know him at all.<br />The story continues with much emphasis on solving the murder.  You will be kept guessing about the identity of the murderer and be treated to not only one but two romances.  I personally liked the romance that developed between Detective Samantha (Sam) Littleton and Lieutenant Mitchell McCord.  Their characters were very modern and refreshing.  For those of you who enjoy reading about very strong, confident guys, then you will enjoy the characters of Lt. McCord and Michael Valente.<br />Since this is my first JM novel, obviously I cannot compare it to her previous works but I can tell you I found this to be a very enjoyable read.	2003-04-12
US	51777432	R2BDG7PLMWSSPY	0671786539	756884641	To Trust a Stranger	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very Good Read!!!	It took Julie eight years to realize that her marriage to Sid Carlson was a sham.  Convinced that Sid was cheating on her, she followed him late one night into Charleston's red light district.  It wasn't a smart thing to do and she realized this after her car was stolen and she was left in a parking lot of a seedy bar dressed only in her nighties and running shoes.  Someone does come to her rescue and that someone is a drag queen named Debbie.<br />Private Investigator Mac McQuarry was on a case--a case that required him to dress as a drag queen.  When he encountered Julie Carlson in the parking lot of the bar he just exited, he thought his luck was about to change.  Here is the wife of a man he tried to put behind bars when he was on the police force years earlier.  His effort cost him his job.  Mac is convinced that Sid Carlson is involved with the MOB and knows what happened to his brother, Daniel, who disappeared fifteen years ago.  With Julie's help, maybe he would succeed this time investigating Sid.<br />Mac eventually convinces Julie to hire him to tail Sid but soon he becomes her bodyguard because someone is trying to kill her.<br />Robard's latest effort is not as dark as some of her previous novels.  In this book, she has left behind the psycho killer in favor of a hit man and instead of having animals tortured she includes a poodle who is bad but adorable.<br />After reading the prologue, I think you will agree that you just have to continue on.  The suspense is good;  Mac's stint as a drag queen is amusing;  the sex is steamy; the pacing is well done.  I really enjoyed Mac's character.  He is simply loyal and so protective of Julie especially after discovering her life is in danger.  He refuses to leave her side and thanks to his vigilance, he saves her life more than once.  I have to say that I think this is one of the best romantic suspense books I've read so far this year.  I hope you will enjoy it also.	2002-03-05
US	51777432	R1ZQZWLTIHSEH6	0380776839	687083377	It Had to Be You (Chicago Stars)	Books	5	51	54	N	N	Excellent!!!	&quot;It Had To Be You&quot; is my favorite book by S.E.P.  It is also the first book in her Chicago Stars football team series.  Phoebe Somerville is the sexy and outrageous (like Marilyn Monroe) daughter of Bert Somerville, owner of the Stars.  After Bert's death, Phoebe learns, to her surprise, that she inherited the team with the stipulation that she can retain ownership if they win the championship. If they loose, the team ownership will be passed on to her obnoxious cousin, Reed Chandler.  This is Phoebe's wake-up call.  Everyone considered her to be a bimbo.  Even her father thought she was a failure.  But with the help of General Manager Ron McDermitt, she proves to be more than capable to run the organization.<br />Dan Calebo, head coach of the Stars, is everything Phoebe despises--a sexist jock with a one track mind.  Dan thinks she is a meddling bimbo.  Phoebe and Dan are both stubborn and sparks fly between these two from the start.  Before long, there is more at stake than just winning the championship.<br />This was my first SEP novel and to date it is my favorite of all her work.  The story will make you laugh, cry, cheer and leave you with a well-satisfied feeling.  You don't have to be a fan of football to enjoy this wonderful story.  SEP's website indicates that &quot;It Had To Be You&quot; will be reissued in March, 2002.	2001-11-22
US	51777432	RGK22Z8G05EXD	0380801213	267805194	Truly Madly Yours	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Delightful!!!	After being away from home for ten years, Delaney Shaw returns to Truly, Idaho for her Stepfather's funeral.  Then she plans to leave town ASAP. Her mother requests her presence at the reading of the will.  She attends expecting to receive nothing more than a gag gift but is surprised to learn that she has inherited a sizeable sum.  Much to her dismay, it is stipulated that she reside in Truly for one year before she can collect her inheritance.  She decides to stay and opens a beauty salon next door to Allegrezza Construction.  As a child, she was fascinated by Nick Allegrezza but that fascination turned sour after discovering that he used her to get back at his father.  Leaving town was her only option.  Now she's back and realizes that Nick is as irresistible as ever.<br />Ten years ago Nick Allegrezza was the town's bad boy.  Nick had matured and opened his own construction company but he continues to attract attention riding his harley, wearing an earring and tying back his long hair.  Nick also received an inheritance from Henry Shaw--he is Henry's illegimate son and only biological heir.  At first, Henry denied him, but by the time Nick was five, he looked like a Shaw and Henry had to accept that Nick was his son.  But it was too late.  By the time Henry was ready to make amends, Nick had turned stubborn and refused to accept Henry's efforts.  Nick's inheritance also came with a stipulation--he was to have no sexual relationship with Delaney.  Unknown to anyone, Nick had always been attracted to Delaney and now that she opened her salon next door to his construction company, it was going to be difficult to treat her with indifference.<br />I've read and enjoyed all of Rachel Gibson's books and if I had to pick my favorite, &quot;Truly, Madly Yours&quot; would be it.  I think this is her hottest story.  Delaney is so likeable and Nick is so sexy and outrageous and Gibson's best hero to date.  I look forward to her next novel due out in April, 2002.	2001-11-19
US	51777432	R8M5GBHHM02C4	0446527130	118908960	Envy	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Very Good!!	Maris Matherly-Reed is a renowned New York editor and is employed at the family owned publishing company of Matherly Press. She is married to best-selling author Noah Reed.  One day while working her way through her slush pile, she discovers the prologue from a manuscript entitled &quot;Envy&quot;.  Impressed by this unsolicited submission, she feels compelled to track down the author.  No easy task since the author identifies himself only as P.M.E. and lists his address as an island off the coast of Georgia.  <br />On an old plantation, she finds the author and comes to understand why he wishes to remain anonymous.  Since she is so excited about this prologue, Maris offers to work with Parker as his editor to complete his tale of two friends who charter a boat, along with a woman friend, for a night of celebration--from which only one person returns.<br />Working closely with Parker, Maris discovers that she is wildly attracted to him and is convinced that his story is more than just fiction.  When tragedy strikes close to home, Maris becomes suspicious and searches for the truth about a crime committed fourteen years earlier.<br />Sandra Brown recently celebrated her twentieth year as a published author.  Congratulations Sandra!  During those twenty years I have been a devoted fan.  Some of her novels are very good and some are simply ok, but whatever the case I will always purchase the hardcover edition as soon as it is released.  &quot;Envy&quot; is one of the very good reads.  Sandra has cleverly crafted a novel within a novel.  This is not a murder mystery to be solved but rather the story of one author's acts of deceit and murder and another author's plan for revenge.  Some reviewers have complained about Parker's cruelty, but as the story unfolds, you will understand the reason for his bitterness.  Some have complained about the language but I have found the male dialogue to be realistic.  All your questions will be answered in the end and you might also find some surprises.  This is a very entertaining read and I recommend you get your hands on this novel as soon as you can.	2001-11-14
US	51777432	R2NVALS4J53EC7	0671034014	378094364	Mercy	Books	1	5	10	N	N	Disappointed!	After reading all the rave reviews for this book, I decided to try my first Julie Garwood novel.  The storyline looked interesting but to my disappointment I found many holes in this novel along with characters and dialogue a bit too juvenile for my taste.  The romance portion of the story was lukewarm and dull and in my opinion not steamy enough. The suspense portion was bland.  It took me three weeks to get through this book.  This novel is a very &quot;light&quot; read, the type found in paperbacks.  I had expected a more substantial and interesting read.	2001-10-17
US	51777432	RI7IFKT0W3C7Q	0671034421	305895234	Open Season	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very Good Read!!	On the morning of her thirty-fourth birthday, Daisy Minor decided to face reality. She was bored and her life was boring. She was a plain, small-town librarian who hadn't been on a date in years. She still lived with her mother and aunt, both widowed. Her closet was filled with plain and unattractive clothes. Most of her friends were married with families and Daisy always wanted a husband and children. She would never achieve this goal if she didn't make some major changes. So with the help of a friend, she commits to a complete makeover, looks for an apartment and decides to go &quot;man-hunting&quot;. She encounters one problem though and his name is Jack Russo. He isn't her type but he shows up everywhere she does! Jack Russo held his position as Chief of Police in Hillsboro, Alabama for the past three years. Recently divorced and tired of the stress caused by his SWAT team job with the NYPD, he decided to move to Hillsboro after his great-aunt Bessie passed away and willed Jack her old Victorian home. Jack spent many summers as a child with Aunt Bessie and he was delighted to have the opportunity to live and work in Hillsboro. He loved the area and was always in a good mood when he left the town's library. Librarian Daisy Minor was a lot of fun. When he sparred with her, she didn't back down. In that respect, she reminded him of his Aunt Bessie. Daisy was mousy and plain but she had a great smile and beautiful skin and if she ever let her hair down he knew she would be dynamite. Jack liked Daisy and when her life was threatened, he pulled out all the stops to protect her. Little did he know at the time he was falling in love with her. Once again Linda Howard has written a novel containing just the right mix of romance/comedy/suspense. Jack, of course, is another of Linda's alpha-male characters and Daisy is the perfect match for him. She is intelligent and sassy and a bit naive. Her naivety in this story works well because it provides the source for many hilarious scenes. The relationship between Jack and Daisy is modern and intimately sizzles. On a more serious note, the author provides some invaluable information about date-rape drugs. I thoroughly enjoyed Linda's &quot;Open Season&quot; and I suspect she may have plans for a sequel since there seemed to be a few loose ends.	2001-08-24
US	51777432	R1BTV4GF7Q3KRV	0380814382	658316423	True Confessions	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Delightful Romantic Comedy!!	Hope Spencer is a tabloid writer from L.A.  After a story gone wrong, her boss suggested she take a six-month vacation to regain her inspiration.  The Sawtooth Wilderness area in Gospel, Idaho seemed to be the best place for that inspiration.  After all, where could she find a better place to write about Bigfoot and Aliens?  From the moment she arrives in Gospel in her silver sports car, Hope discovers that truth really is stranger than fiction.  The citizens of Gospel inspire her to write many popular alien stories for her employer, The Weekly News of the Universe.  And while in the tiny wilderness town, Hope also discovers that this is where her battered heart belongs.  She finds true love with the town's sheriff and friendship with her neighbors.<br />From the first moment he laid eyes on Hope Spencer, Sheriff Dylan Taber knew she would be trouble.  Most tourists were.  Hope was a writer and Dylan had something to hide, a secret he had kept from this town for many years.  But Dylan finds Hope to be irresistible and the more time he spends with her, the more he wants her in his life.  Will he eventually find the courage to trust Hope and make a true confession to her?<br />Sounds serious.  It is to a certain extent.  But in between the seriousness of this story you will find yourself giggling at the antics of this town.  From the sisters with color coordinated hair to the toilet tossing sportsmen, you will get more than a few laughs.<br />True Confessions is Rachel Gibson's fourth novel.  And her stories just keep getting better.  If you enjoyed her other novels, I'm sure you will like this one.	2001-08-13
US	51777432	RFLMGUZ430TDI	0312978715	925483129	Dear Cupid	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Very Good Read!!	Since her divorce, Kate Bradshaw's online column &quot;Dear Cupid&quot; hasn't been scoring any points with her readers and the owner of the online magazine that runs her column threatened to cancel her if she didn't put the fun back into her romance advice.   Kate needed to take control and regain her carefree spirit she'd lost in recent years.  What better way than to find a man to make romance fun again.  She didn't want a serious relationship, just someone to flirt with.  Looking around, she spied Mike......<br />Mike Cameron believed in love at first sight, but he never found the &quot;right girl&quot; for himself.  His job as a movie animator didn't help since he worked about sixteen hours a day.  Relaxing, eyes closed, waiting for his flight at L.A. airport, Mike began thinking of marriage.  His thoughts were interrupted when a woman spilled her purse at his feet.  Upon opening his eyes, Mike found himself face to face with the most enchanting woman he had ever seen.  He knew at that moment that she was the &quot;right girl&quot; and he intended to convince her that she would be very happy as Mrs. Mike Cameron.<br />Once again, Ms. Ortolon has delivered a well-written and delightful novel.  Her characters are well-developed and there is much interaction among all these characters.  The leading lady, Kate Bradshaw, has much on her plate.  She is trying to put her life back on track after divorce from workaholic who had no time for his family.  Her seven-year old son, Dylan, suffers with asthma and her confidence level is at an all-time low.  Mike Cameron is the perfect hero for this story.  Not brash or crude, he is caring, considerate and very patient with Kate, allowing her the time she needs to heal, but he is very determined to win her heart.  You will just love the way he wins approval from Kate's little boy.  Mike is so easy going you can't help but love him!<br />If you want to read a very good story try this one.  And then try Julie's previous novel &quot;Drive Me Wild&quot;.  This author is now on my auto-buy list.  Thank you Julie for many hours of reading pleasure.	2001-07-27
US	51777432	RIWH68EW6PZRO	0373259352	20750460	Insatiable (Heat)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very Good!!	Dominick LaRocca has a major problem.  He is the CEO of his family's pasta sauce business and he now has to dodge the women of the world simply because his grandmothers thought it was high time he married and they decided to place his photo, along with his income and marital status, on the label of the LaRocca pasta sauce cans.  Needless to say he isn't very happy with these two nanas of his but he refuses to hire a bodyguard.  After an incident, involving some rowdy women, he reconsiders hiring a bodyguard after a sexy security guard saved him from having his clothes torn from his body at an expo where he had an appointment to promote his products.<br />This sexy security guard is Samantha Deveaux.  We first met Sam in Leto's previous novel &quot;Pure Chance&quot;, which is the story of Samantha's sister Serena.  Sam is now working for her brother-in-law, Chance.  He is the owner of a bodyguard business called No Chances.  But since Chance and Serena are still away on their honeymoon, Sam takes a temporary job as a security guard at a Supermarketing Expo.  Her job is to make sure Mr. LaRocca makes it to his booth in one piece. All hell breaks loose as he enters the building and this is where the fun begins!<br />I have to say that this book left me wanting more.  More time with Sam and Nick.  More time with Nick's nanas.  Just more of anything to do with this story.  Nick's nanas were a hoot and given more time, I think they could have stirred up even more fun!<br />Don't miss this sexy, funny read.  Thank you Julie for such an entertaining read!	2001-07-24
US	51777432	R2FLUPB7EQSBQ7	0505523442	214230018	Prince Charming (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Wow!!!	I thought &quot;Baby,Oh Baby&quot; by Robin Wells was very good.  &quot;Prince Charming&quot; was even better.  I won't go into the storyline since other reviewers did a good job of recounting the story but I want to say that if you overlook this book you will miss out on an excellent read.  <br />It's been a long time since I can say a story made me laugh out loud (lol)but this one did just that. Even my husband enjoyed  the scenes I read to him! In addition to great humor, I found Prince Charming to be a well-written and well-paced read. The story flowed so smoothly it was a treat to read.  Not once did I question the actions of any of the characters.<br />This is one of the best books I've read so far this year.  Ms. Wells has the ability to develop an intelligent, sensitive and delightful story.  I am so thrilled to have discovered this talented author.	2001-05-22
US	51777432	R28EW14UVZYH1D	0380816822	422212723	Born to Be Wild	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Another winner for Patti!	Lauren Remington is a Palm Beach socialite.  Her new career as a wedding planner got off to a bad start but she's out to prove her ability to plan the perfect wedding for her best friend Betsy Endicott and Betsy's wedding is only three days away. Disaster strikes again!  Henri, the caterer Lauren booked to provide Betsy's wedding feast, just passed away.  Henri's funeral is scheduled for the same day as Betsy's Wedding.  Now Lauren must scour the yellow pages to locate a caterer.  Born To Be Wild Catering is her last hope but this caterer seems to specialize in barbecues.  Will he be able to prepare the fancy food required for this society wedding of the year?<br />Imagine Lauren's shock when the owner, Max Wilde, shows up on a Harley, wearing black leather, a goatee, a tattoo and earrings.  Out of options, Lauren is forced to hire Max.  Lauren is about to find out that there is more to Max than what meets the eye.  Besides being a major hottie, he is an experienced caterer, able to handle Betsy's wedding with ease.  He is the foster father of two very likeable children and he is the owner of The Hole in the Wall.  A place where unwanted and unloved kids can hang out. Little does Lauren know, Max is just what she needs.<br />Born To Be Wild is the sequel to Wife For A Day.  You don't need to read Wife For A Day to enjoy Born To Be Wild but you will miss out on a very good read if you don't.  Born To Be Wild is a light and fast paced read about two people from very different worlds.  Their major problem is trying to fit into each other's lifestyle.  The more time they spend together, the more they bring out the best in each other. <br />This is a truly enjoyable read, one you should not miss.	2001-05-10
US	51777432	R17Y3MOFI8DSV6	0440235758	846987943	Going Overboard	Books	1	8	11	N	N	Disappointing!!	This book has a misleading cover and it states that the story is a &quot;wonderfully sexy romance...fabulous, outrageous fun&quot;.  The person who made that statement must be thinking of another book.<br />Outrageous fun?  Would you consider being wounded and recovering in a mansion under tight security with a bodyguard in tow to be fun?  Not to mention that you are being stalked by your stepfather's enemies?  I think not!  This book is heavy on the suspense but the problems I had with this story overshadowed a fairly decent storyline.  Most scenes were short and clipped with dialogue I found at times to be contradictory and confusing.<br />Wonderfully sexy romance?  Not so!  I found the romance part of this story to be lukewarm.  The leading characters were boring and uninteresting.  Ford McKay did not turn out to be the rugged, take charge type of Navy SEAL I had envisioned and Carly Sullivan's constant obsessive and workaholic personality quickly became annoying.<br />This was my first Christina Skye novel and I was not impressed with her style of writing.  This book will not make it to my keeper shelf.	2001-04-20
US	51777432	R2Y9BLTJJNCY41	0373255926	563763637	The Mercenary (The Men of T-FLAC, Book 1)	Books	3	66	68	N	N	Adair's Debut Novel!	&quot;The Mercenary&quot; is Adair's debut novel written in 1994 and published as a Harlequin Temptation series romance.<br />This is the story of T-FLAC operative Marc Savin and his partner's sister Victoria Jones.  T-FLAC (Terrorist Force Logistical Assault Command) is an elite government unit, a cloaked counterterrorist force beyond even the CIA.<br />When Victoria (Tory) realizes that her brother is being held prisoner, she enlists the help of Marc Savin to rescue him.  Tory and her brother are twins and they have a special ability to communicate with each other telepathically.  For this reason Marc needs Tory to help him locate his partner and he takes her along on the rescue mission.<br />This story held my interest because of Adair's ability to produce an exciting read when it comes to action, adventure and suspense.  But the romance portion of the story was disappointing.  There was no indepth character development.  Other than their mission together and some background info on their past lives, I feel I didn't get to know Marc and Tory too well.  Their relationship followed a stilted and dated format but you will find some steamy sex scenes in this story.  Another slight problem in this story was that I found it difficult to believe the mental telepathy conversations between Tory and her brother.<br />I would have liked a longer, more indepth story, but even with these distractions, I feel that Ms. Adair did a good job with this short format series title.  This title is currently out of print and very hard to find at used book stores.  Copies are available through amazon.com auctions and zshops.	2001-04-14
US	51777432	R18ZKIM9OUD3VC	0505523493	761063631	The Love Potion (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Delightful!!!	The fun begins when &quot;Bad Boy of the Bayou&quot; Lucien LeDeux accidently consumes Dr. Sylvie Fontaine's &quot;Love Potion&quot; jelly beans. What follows is pure fun and lots of laughs.<br />This book deserves more than a five star rating.  It is sooooo good.  The story has all the best ingredients--fun, laughs, a hero and heroine you can truly connect with and great secondary characters such as Luc's brothers who are very charming and his Aunt Lulu who is a hoot.  The dialogue is wickedly sexy at times and so much fun.<br />Since I have only just discovered Sandra Hill, I look forward to many enjoyable hours reading her previous books.  I recommend &quot;The Love Potion&quot; and guar-un-tee you will enjoy it.	2001-04-04
US	51777432	R7P2XJ9Z6DCI6	0373258240	207121961	Private Lessons (Blaze)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Very Good!!	I recently discovered the author Julie Elizabeth Leto.  I was so impressed with her style of writing that I am now searching for her earlier titles.<br />In Private Lessons, Hailey (aka Harley)was desperate for some quick cash and decided to accept an offer to substitute as a stripper for her cousin.  The gig was a bachelor party at the company owned home of banker Grant Riordan.  Upon entering his home and after a slight accident Harley developes amnesia. (Now we all know that the amnesia bit has been played to death but Ms. Leto's writing style prevents the story from becoming just another amnesia story.)<br />Grant allows Harley to stay at his home to rest and recover her memory.  What follows is a well written story of two very likeable characters as they fall in love. <br />This story was published as a Harlequin Temptation Blaze.  The series is known for very sensual, sexy stories and Private Lessons surely delivered on that account.  If you like quick, fun, sexy reads with love scenes that are steamy, don't pass this one up.	2001-04-01
US	51777432	R37GZYQSS95XKZ	0505524279	592885667	Baby, Oh Baby! (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Oh Baby, This is A Good Read!!	I am always attracted to colorful covers and this book looked like a comedy.  But we all know you can't judge a book by its cover!  Although this story had its humorous moments it was a pretty serious read.<br />Jake Chastaine had it all.  He was a partner in a prestigious law firm, he had a beautiful wife, home and in-laws who loved him dearly.  He had wealth and happiness and he and his wife were about to start a family with the help of a fertility clinic.  Then disaster struck and his wife and his parents were killed in an auto accident.  Now two years later Jake discovers that his doctor at the fertility clinic used Jake's one and only back up sample to impregnate a single mother.  Knowing that a child resulted from this procedure, Jake is determined to find the child and become a part of his/her life.<br />Annie Hollister and her daughter, Madeline, live on a ranch in Lucky, Oklahoma.  Annie's life is happy and peaceful until Jake shows up on her doorstep and claims to be her child's father! She knows he is telling the truth because Madeline is a tiny replica of Jake.  Will she be forced to share custody with this stranger?<br />This story is a pleasurable read.  It is well-written and that alone will hold my attention whatever the genre.  Jake and Annie are intelligent characters and work through their problems with that same intelligence.  I have a fourteen month old nephew so I know how a child that age should act and the author perfectly portrayed little Madeline.  I usually don't read stories with children in the lead roles but I have to admit that this child is so cute and adorable.  The secondary characters are Jake's in-laws, Annie's ranch manager and his wife, Annie's lawyer and a dachshund named Hot Dog.                               <br /> There is good interaction between all characters and lots of dialogue.  I found it refreshing that the plot wasn't based on some major deceit to be resolved at the end of the story.  This story is about everyday, ordinary people trying to rebuild their lives after a tragedy.  I think that Ms. Wells' style of writing is similar to that of Barbara Bretton. I also think that this book will be one of this year's sleepers, so buy a copy now before it becomes too hard to find.  Enjoy!!	2001-02-28
US	51777432	R2IW4C4ANOBWAC	0380812568	488356006	This Perfect Kiss	Books	3	11	12	N	N	An OK Read!	After thoroughly enjoying the author's previous novel &quot;Wish You Were Here&quot;, I looked forward to &quot;This Perfect Kiss&quot;.  I was somewhat disappointed with Christie's latest effort.  Although this book had its moments, they were too few.  I felt the plot was weak and dragged on with a rushed ending.  The main characters, who were adults and supported established careers, were too immature and naive for my taste and I felt the author missed some golden opportunities to write a few scenes around the webcam and Jilly's Victorian underwear.  I thought this was an OK read and I would recommend it but felt it was not up to par for this talented author.	2001-02-11
US	51777432	R2EGO1J37Q1GIY	0380807149	969713177	All Shook Up	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Corrected Info!	I would like to correct info I listed in my previous review of this book.  In an effort to help readers stay informed of reissue dates, I listed info taken from Susan's old website. The author informed me today that the reissue dates for &quot;Obsessed&quot; and &quot;On Thin Ice&quot; have been revised.  &quot;Obsessed&quot; is now due for reissue in December, 2001 and &quot;On Thin Ice&quot; in December of 2002.	2001-01-25
US	51777432	R12XC5KJU1FSI7	155166786X	517430295	Tears Of The Renegade	Books	5	87	89	N	N	A Must Read!!	Why shouldn't he come back?  This was his home.  He even owned part of the land.  He was ready to put down roots and what better place for that than his home.  That was the excuse he gave to his Aunt Imogene and cousin, Preston.  They were leary of him and rightfully so because his real reason for returning was revenge.  He was considered the renegade, the black sheep of the family and he fully expected to exact his revenge on the family who scorned him for so many years.  But he hadn't counted on Susan Blackstone, widow of his cousin Vance.  Love became the wild card in the battle for control of the family company and  Cord Blackstone realized it was too soon to know who held the winning hand.<br />Susan first laid eyes on Cord when he appreared in the open French doors at her party.  He looked self-assured, the type of man who was willing to take risks.  She thought he looked like a pirate, a man no one would cross.  As a hostile silence began to fall over the room, she sensed trouble and decided to diffuse the situation.  Slowly she went to him.  She didn't know who he was but she would welcome this guest into her home.  She would befriend this man everyone seemed to dislike.<br />This story was written by LH in 1985 and published as a Silhouette Intimate Moments series romance.  I think Susan Blackstone was Linda's first strong heroine.  Susan was faced with the danger that someone wanted to financially ruin her family.  She fought back with everything she had to prevent this disaster and in the process showed Cord that he deserved love and there was a place for him with his family.<br />If you are a LH fan, as I am, you won't want to miss this one.  An excellent story!!	2001-01-04
US	51777432	R2L3F0XI18MATK	0671786458	118811339	Paradise County	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Mixed Emotions!	I won't go into a description of the story, please read the editorial review on this book.<br />The author basically used the same formula when writing Paradise County as she used in her previous novel Ghost Moon.  With one exception--fewer characters.  The main characters included in this story were Alexandra Haywood and her sister, Neely, Joe Welch and his three children and Joe's father, Cary.<br />The editorial review gave this story a sensuality rating of 8 and I have to agree the story was very sexy and mostly read as a romance novel with very good interaction between Joe and Alex and their family members. Of course there is murder to be solved  but once again the author chose to include a killer who preys on women and animals.<br />Mostly I enjoyed this book but the chapters on the murderer and his activities I found to be disturbing.  I enjoy a murder mystery but I can do without the graphic violence.   In solving the crises, the last few chapters were rushed.  A longer ending would have been more appreciated.	2000-12-15
US	51777432	R333IJCWFS8M2Q	069452266X	703888182	Handyman	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Very Entertaining!!	Maggie Ivy is a struggling twenty-six year old single mom trying to keep it all together.  Her boss is a jerk, her job is part-time and barely pays enough and her mother wants her to move back home and marry Bobby Simple.  Determined to stay in the San Francisco area, she accepts help when her friend, Gina, signs her up for Dr. Jason Golding's &quot;21-Day Overhaul&quot;.<br />Jake Cooper is surprised when a pretty woman enters Dr. Golding's office crying.  Dr. Golding is away at a seminar and Jake, a contractor, is measuring the office for a remodeling bid. Unable to help himself he ushers Maggie to a seat and pulls up a chair for himself and sits down to listen to Maggie's problems.  You can see the mistaken identity crises developing and after one hour Maggie feels so much better because &quot;Dr. Golding&quot; is warm, sensitive and a good listener.  Jake doesn't know how to tell Maggie the truth so she leaves the office with an appointment to see him a few days later.<br />After reading so many mixed reviews for this book, I decided to check it out for myself.  I borrowed the audiobook version from the library. It was a real treat to have someone read for me.  I am usually hesitant with abridged versions of audiobooks but this 6 hour/4 cassette version seems to have included the entire story.  You don't feel as though you missed something by not reading the book.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed Handyman.  Jake was not a superhero but an old fashioned quiet guy who was determined to set the world right for Maggie Ivy and her son Tim.  Maggie may be shy and naive but she needs a little help.  Don't we all at times.  Jake and Maggie are both warm and caring individuals and Jake's love for Maggie and Tim will tug at your heartstrings.  I would recommend the audiobook.  Sit back, relax and enjoy this heartwarming and delightful story.	2000-11-15
US	51777432	RNBYCNLXF4CK9	0380790076	373986775	Simply Irresistible	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Simply OK	Georgianne Howard had done some crazy things in her life but marrying a man old enough to be her grandfather would not be one of them.  So taking her suitcase she walked out on her fiance just an hour before their wedding.  As she leaves his home, a gorgeous hunk is also leaving in his red corvette and she asks him for a ride.  He agrees, not knowing who she is.<br />The hunk turns out to be John Kowalsky, franchise player for the Seattle Chinooks hockey team.  He didn't realize he had absconded with his boss's bride until it was too late.  Not willing to risk his career he is determined to keep his distance from her.  But before he can get her a flight back to Texas she needed a place to stay for the night.  Reluctantly he agrees to let her stay at his place.  Georgianne is too beautiful to resist and he ends up spending the night in her bed.  The following day he delivers her to the airport thinking he would never see her again.<br />But John and Georgianne do meet again seven years later and John discovers that their one night of passion has produced a child and he is determined to be a part of her life.<br />Although this story is a good read it was frustrating to a degree because the romance between John and Georgianne never seemed to get a good start.  The author allowed other issues in the story to overshadow the romance end.  But this is my opinion and I would still recommend this book, along with Gibson's others, &quot;Truly, Madly Yours&quot; and &quot;It Must Be Love&quot;.	2000-11-13
US	51777432	R78TAD8C61203	0821764039	307146026	Exposure	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good, But Not Her Best.	Emma Sands car needs repairs and she is stuck in Washington State's Port Flannery, a remote fishing village.  No one knows her there and it will be a good place for her and her daughter, Gracie, to hide for a few days.  Emma is on the run from someone who is determined to ruin her life.<br />Big city cop, now a smalltown sheriff, Elvis Donnelly, is six foot five and the victim of a violent boyhood and a bomb blast that has left him somewhat handicapped.  When he meets Emma, the attraction is instant but, can he keep her safe from her past?<br />This story is basically a good read with one annoying hitch.  And her name is Gracie.  Although she is a cute kid, I feel she had too much spotlight in this story.  Emma and Elvis' relationship revolved around her.  Conversations and love scenes were placed on the back burner because Gracie was around.  And I have to agree with other reviewers that her vocabulary was quite extensive for a child just turning three.   But if you can get past this, you might enjoy this story.	2000-10-29
US	51777432	R3C5MVOQV24RE3	0380795124	962342023	Be My Baby	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Fun Read!!	Juliet Rose Astor Lowell had just arrived in New Orleans for the grand opening of her father's newest hotel.  Away from her grandmother's rigid constraints, she thought she would have more freedom than she had at home but to her dismay, her father informed her that he requested police protection for her after he received a letter protesting the opening of the New Orleans Garden Crown.  She didn't need a bodyguard and the police detective assigned to her was too macho, too pushy, too big, and too virile.  But she was a lady and there was no way she would loose control!<br />Sergeant Beau Dupree raised his three orphaned sisters and looked forward to his freedom.  He was the lucky officer assigned to protect Miss Lowell.  But with more important things to do than &quot;babysit&quot; a beautiful, rich Yankee lady, he devised a plan.  He would take her to some of the most questionable joints in town.  She would then request a more suitable detective to guard her!  Little did he realize that she would turn out to be more than he could handle!<br />Be My Baby, is the second installment of Ms. Andersen's &quot;baby&quot; stories and it is one of my favorites.  This is a light and fast paced story with steamy love scenes as only Susan can write them.  The secondary characters include Beau's sisters and I think you will find them charming.  I hope you enjoy this truly delightful read as much as I did.	2000-10-24
US	51777432	R37JHNV6G1LBMV	0449006832	724584881	Kiss and Tell (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 2)	Books	5	91	94	N	N	Excellent Read!!	When Marnie Wright spent the weekend at her grandmother's mountain cabin deciding what to do with the rest of her life, she never expected it to be the turning point in her life.  Marnie had grown up with four over-protective brothers.  She had always deferred to their wishes because it was the path of least resistance but after the recent death of her beloved grandmother, she decided it was time to live her own life.  But a longhaired mountain man, named Jake Dolan, intruded on her thoughts while she was sketching in the woods.  He accused her, at gun point, of trespassing on his private property.<br />The last thing Jake Dolan needs in his life is an attractive, petite blonde.  He knows how dangerous they can be.  Hiding out in his secret, underground mountain lair, complete with security monitors and a huge arsenal, Jake is a hunted man.  And now he will have to keep Marnie safe from the terrorists who are combing the mountainside.<br />When I first saw this book, I thought what an attractive cover! Will the story be as good?   The answer is yes!!  This story has it all--action, adventure, suspense, steamy love scenes, good character development, a strong and tender hero, a spunky, honest heroine, a loveable Great Dane and if that isn't enough-- the story is well-written!  Wow!!  Don't miss this one.  Kudos, Cherry on a job well-done.<br />Also included in this book is an excerpt from Ms. Adair's next story. I look forward to many good reads from this author.	2000-10-18
US	51777432	R3S8SYGUMEKQ3H	0380795116	395793792	Baby, I'm Yours	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An Entertaining Read!!	Kaylee MacPherson's flight just pulled away from the gate and bounty hunter Sam McKade just missed nabbing the bail jumper.  Well, he would get a flight out of Miami and track her down to Seattle.  She wouldn't get away from him.  This job was too important.  The bounty on her bond would put him over the top for the last of the financing he needed for the fishing lodge.  Purchasing a ticket to Seattle would blow his budget but he would just have to economize on the trip back.<br />After tracking her to a home in Seattle, and crashing through the front door, he was just in time to see her trying to leave through the bathroom window.  After restraining her attempt to leave, the woman identified herself as Catherine MacPherson, Kaylee's identical twin!  Right, like Sam would fall for that line!<br />And this is where the fun begins!  The trip back to Miami is by bus. Catherine tries her best to convince Sam that she is a twin but Sam won't buy it.  She looks exactly like the woman he is after and her identifying mark (a tatoo--I won't tell you where it's located) identifies her as Kaylee.<br />This is a very enjoyable read.  Sam and Cat are great together and the secondary characters are the best I've come across in a long time.  Although I enjoy all of Susan's books, I have to say this is my favorite with &quot;Be My Baby&quot; a close second.  If you are looking for something just a little different from the average romance read, try this one.	2000-10-17
US	51777432	R38JIMQFX0X5M7	0553297511	111429167	Hawk O'Toole's Hostage	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent!!	Vacationing out West after her divorce from Representative Price, Miranda Price thought she would finally be able to get her private life back in order.  She and her son, Scott, were on a tourist train ride and she was just as impressed as the other sightseers when the train robbers appeared.  Little did she know that she and her son would be taken as hostages by the mysterious leader of this band of renegades.<br />Hawk O'Toole was a desperate man.  Desperate to make life better for his people.  So reluctantly, he agreed to kidnap Rep. Price's son.  <br />I first read this book in 1988 when it was published as a Loveswept Romance and to this day it remains one of my favorites. I know it deals with a sensitive subject, kidnapping, but remember, this is a romance novel and it ends well.  At no time was Miranda or Scott harmed.  <br />I always wished this novel was more indepth and a longer read. Ms. Brown absolutely amazed me with this story.  She was able to pack a powerhouse story into a short 198 page read.  This fast paced read is definitely worth your time.	2000-10-15
US	51777432	R3EJHKXS97DA3U	155166481X	14054019	Devil's Own	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Sandra at her Romantic Best!	Kerry Bishop was looking for a mercenary soldier, someone who was disreputable and fearless, who could help her rescue nine orphans from a war-torn country.  That type of man would be the only kind of person able to help her accomplish her mission.  So disguised as a hooker, she entered the bar.  <br />Linc O'Neal, world renowned photojournalist, sat at the bar celebrating the fact that he would be leaving this god-forsaken country where he had just completed his assignment. He was tired, dirty and looked just as bad as some of the local patrons.  Perhaps he was celebrating just a little too much because the hooker who just walked up to him looked too good to be true.  But he was on his way out of the country and had no time for her.  Little did he know that his plans were about to change!  <br />Was Kerry able to get this mean-looking man to help her?  You will have to read the book to find out the rest of the story.   If you think this sounds interesting--it is.   And does it get any better--it sure does.  This is one of Sandra's earlier Silhouette Intimate Moments.  Just one of the many romantic stories that made her so popular.  Sandra was one of the top romance writers early in her career and this book proves she deserved the title as one of the best.  If you are a romance fan, I am certain you will enjoy this one!<br />&quot;The Devil's Own&quot; brings back Cage and Jenny Hendren from &quot;Led Astray&quot;.  You may want to read that book first.  Also an excellent romantic read from Brown.	2000-10-13
US	51777432	R2SRP10FZQDOA8	1551664577	992427285	Loving Evangeline (Duncan and Evangeline)	Books	5	75	78	N	N	Very Good Sequel to Duncan's Bride!	This is the sequel to Duncan's Bride.  In &quot;Loving Evangeline&quot;, we meet Evangeline Shaw (Evie)who lives in a small town in Alabama, owns a marina and is trying to keep her life together after the death of her young husband (her childhood sweetheart)years before.  Into her world enters Robert Cannon.  We first met Robert in Duncan's Bride (Madelyn's stepbrother).  Robert's company develops classified software that is being sold to a foreign government without his approval. His trail leads straight to Evie, who by all accounts has both the means and the motives.  Determined to handle this matter himself and under the premise of vacationing in the area for the summer, Robert begins his investigation of Evie.  <br />Robert has always been attracted to tall, thin women but this five foot four traitor takes his breath away!  He has every intention of bringing her to justice but as time goes on it becomes increasingly difficult to believe she is involved in industrial espionage.<br /> This is a very good read.  As usual, Evie is one of Linda's heroines who can tough it out and survive.  Robert plays some pretty mean tricks on her but she bounces back and eventually brings him to his knees.  I hope you enjoy this sexy, sensual story as much as I did.	2000-10-12
US	51777432	R27OR83AE36RON	0446527033	213222268	The Switch	Books	3	46	48	N	N	Not Her Best!	I have been a Sandra Brown fan from day one.  Her romance novels have been some of the best I have ever read.  Her early mainstream novels are better than her recent ones.  If you read the inside flaps on the dust cover of &quot;The Switch&quot;, you will basically know the story and the author does not stray far from the review.  &quot;The Switch&quot; was a fair read but could have been so much better.<br />For starters this book was too long! (469 pages)  This story could have been told with 100 less pages.  There were few characters and the information relayed between them at times became repetitive.  I did not find any surprises.  The murderers are revealed at the time of the murders and the reader is aware of the diabolical plot and just tags along for the ride.  By the time you are halfway through the book you should be able to figure out Melina's &quot;dark secret&quot;.  I questioned it at the very beginning.   And spicy sex scenes?  Ms. Brown just does not write them like she once did.<br />In short I found this book to be an OK read although predictable and a bit long.  If you want to read one of her better novels try Charade or Exclusive.  The Switch seemed to have so much potential but did not deliver for me.	2000-09-25
US	51777432	R2J4BROAD1K1E8	0671019740	625458726	Heart of Fire (Pocket Books Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of Linda's Best!!!	Archeologist Jillian Sherwood believed the lost Amazon city, once  inhabited by women warriors and containing a rare red diamond, did exist  and she was determined to find it. Hiring Ben Lewis, number one river guide  in Brazil, was a necessity she was willing to put up with since Ben  appeared to be nothing more than a ruffian with an ego to match.  Their  journey into the jungle is filled with danger, excitement and adventure.   <br />If you enjoyed Midnight Rainbow, you will love this longer,  more  indepth version of a trip through the jungle.  At no time during this story  was I bored. And yes, Linda's sexy love scenes are present in this book.   You won't be disappointed with this one.  Enjoy!!	2000-09-18
US	51777432	R311GQ0KDNIQJY	0553295349	94468636	Lucky's Lady (Doucet)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good Romantic Suspense Reissue!	Serena Sheridan is a phychologist who returns to her ancestral home in  Louisiana for a vacation.  Upon returning she realizes she has to deal with  a stubborn, cantankerous seventy-eight year old grandfather, a calculating  and self-centered twin sister, a laid back, easy-going wanna be a politican  brother-in-law, an obnoxious chemical company rep, poachers and a hunk who  roams the bayou like a mysterious pirate.  Some vacation!<br />This is my  first Tami Hoag novel and I found it to be a good blend of romance and  suspense. Although I found the conflicts  wrapped up too quickly and  easily, I did enjoy the author's lengthy and descriptive scenes.  Her  descriptions of the bayou make you feel as if you are there.  I feel that I  must warn those of you who like &quot;light&quot; romantic reads that this  book contains explicit sex scenes and some violence.	2000-09-06
US	51777432	R36PTZTCL6DTQ4	0312252943	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	1	13	26	N	N	Disappointed!!	After reading the many great reviews for this book, I expected to enjoy  this novel.  I really wanted to like this book but I was very disappointed.   I love humor but I found nothing funny about a town filled with people who  were obnoxious, self-centered, shallow and just plain mean.  After reading  150 pages, I was ready to quit but since this was my first Jennifer Crusie  novel, I decided to be completely fair with the author and finish the book.   I hoped that Phin and Sophie's relationship would redeem the book but I  found Phin's &quot;I don't care&quot; attitude annoying and Sophie's guilt  complex boring.  The frequent use of the &quot;F&quot; word didn't bother  me in most instances but there were times when the author could have  substituted other words ( especially when Phin was talking to his mother).   Another disappointing factor were the love scenes.  Most reviewers  described them as hot, hot, hot.  If you blinked during most of them you  would have missed them.  If you really want hot love scenes try Linda  Howard's &quot;After The Night&quot; or &quot;Heart of Fire&quot;.  By the  time I was near the end, I could have cared less about the outcome and  skimmed the last few chapters.  If you feel you must read this book, I  would recommend checking it out of the library.  It was not worth the price  of a hardcover.	2000-08-19
US	51777432	R32RXVTQHP1B9L	0671034065	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Almost Perfect!!	Jaine Bright has lived in her new home for two weeks and considers her next door neighbor the blight of the neighborhood. So she refers to him as  &quot;the Jerk&quot;.  She thinks he is a surly, nasty drunk and sparks fly  when they encounter each other.  So she thinks of his attitude when she and  three of her friends put together a list of requirements for &quot; Mr.  Perfect&quot;.   Jaine and her friends meet every Friday at Ernie's, a  local restaurant, for dinner. After a long and difficult work week, the  friends kick back and discuss their imperfect love lives.  As the  conversation picks up Marci writes down the list of requirements.  An act  that will come back to haunt them.  Thinking no harm will come of an  innocent funny list, Marci shows the list to a co-worker and on Monday  morning, &quot;the list&quot;, as it becomes known, is printed in the  workplace newsletter.  It spreads like wildfire throughout their company  and shows up on the Internet.  It is picked up by local newspapers and  eventually the national news.  What's starts out as an innocent joke turns  deadly when one of the friends is murdered.  Jaine turns to her  &quot;jerk&quot; neighbor for help. Turns out &quot;the jerk&quot; is a  police detective named Sam Donovan. I was delighted that for this book,  Linda has returned to the style of writing that made her so popular.  This  romantic suspense has enough romance to keep readers of the genre  interested.  Sam Donovan and Jaine Bright are two of Linda's most likeable  characters.  Sam is brash, cocky, arrogant, smart, sexy, sweet and not too  shy!!  Jaine is gutsy, intelligent, cute, and a smart mouth with a great  sense of humor.  Oh, and desperate to stop cussing!!  The sparks fly  between these two and their dialogue is often very sexy.   Linda has added  a new element to her writing and it is humor, which works well in this  story.  Now my reason for the four star rating--I was disappointed with the  love scenes.  I have come toexpect very sexy, sensual and erotic love  scenes from Linda but they were not to be found in this book.  I felt the  few scenes she did include in her story were too rushed and not of the  classic standard as in past books.  But that aside, I found this book well  worth the hardcover price and definitely a keeper.	2000-08-09
US	51777432	R3H8177LXEI52X	0440236185	93651929	Drive Me Wild	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Stunning Debut!	It's been fourteen years, seven months and ten days since Brent Michael Zartlich kissed Laura Beth Morgan and left his hometown of Beason's Ferry.  They had been childhood friends-- his only friend since they were both  considered the &quot;town misfits&quot;.  She, the town doctor's awkward,  skinny, coke-bottle glasses kid and he, the boy who grew up on the wrong  side of the tracks.  Now Brent Michaels is the drop-dead gorgeous anchor at  a Houston TV station and Laura Beth has phoned him requesting help with the  town's annual fund-raiser, which this year includes a Dating Game  reenactment.  She wants him to play the &quot;celebrity bachelor&quot; for  the game.  After a little coaxing, Brent realizes he cannot refuse his old  friend.  Little does he realize he is in for the surprise of his life!  The  tomboy he remembers has blossomed into a beautiful woman.         Occasionally an exceptional book will come along.  This is that book!   If  you read only a few romance books each  year, I recommend you place this  high on your &quot;to read&quot; list.  You won't be disappointed.   This  book is extremely well written and emotionally satisfying.  The characters  are well developed and the story is fun and at times sad and very, very  sexy.   It is always a treat to discover a new author who writes so well.   I look forward to many good reads from her in the future.  Kudos Julie on a  job well done.	2000-07-24
US	51777432	R3MXX45OBT0FYS	0380807157	26838172	It Must Be Love	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Very Good Read!	Someone stole the Potato King's Monet and it looks as though Gabrielle Breedlove and Kevin Carter, co-owners of the Anomaly, a curio shop, are the prime suspects.  Undercover cop Joe Shanahan has been assigned to tail Ms.  Breedlove.  Little does he realize that after a week of following her,  Gabrielle suspects someone is stalking her.  During her morning jog, she  attacks her stalker with a can of hair spray, knocks him to the ground and  levels her antique derringer at him.  Needless to say Gabrielle is  handcuffed and arrested for assaulting an officer.  The prosecuting  attorney is willing to drop the assualt charges if Gabrielle will agree to  participate in an undercover police investigation.  The investigation of  her friend and co-owner, Kevin.  When she agrees, Joe is assigned to pose  as her boyfriend and  work as handyman at the curio shop.         This is  the second book I've read by Ms. Gibson and it is as enjoyable as Truly,  Madly Yours.  Joe and Gabrielle are hot together.  The  dialogue is witty  and fun.  The secondary characters are adorable and Joe's talking parrot,   Sam is a hoot.   Enjoy!	2000-07-16
US	51777432	R2PMBPQSDOMLBU	0380807122	958834548	Baby, Don't Go	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Not Andersen's Best &quot;Baby&quot; Book	This is the third in a series of &quot;Baby&quot; Books for author Susan Andersen.  Although it is an OK read it can't compare to her previous books, Baby, I'm Yours and Be My Baby.  I haven't figured out which golden  oldie Susan will name her next book after.        The story takes place  during a one week period.  After four years as an Oakland police officer,  Daisy Parker had retired to open her own business as a security specialist.   After not seeing Daisy for nine years, her ex-step brother, Nick Coltrane  saunters into her office on a Monday morning requesting her services.    Nick, a well-known and reputable photographer in the San Francisco area,  recently took pictures at a society wedding and one of the pictures proved  to be damaging to a local VIP.  In his quest to obtain control of the  negatives, the VIP sends out his goons to do some real damage to Nick.   Totally ticked off by his initial treatment from the goons, Nick decides to  sell the negatives to the tabloids, something he has never done before.   But besides his anger he also needs cash to help his sister out of a  financial jam.        Nick is the only man ever to make Daisy's heart beat  faster.  But after callously taking her virginity nine years earlier then  telling her to &quot;get over it&quot; and grow up, Nick is the last man  she wants to see again. But the $4,000 retainer he offers her is difficult  to resist.  So begins a week of fighting off the bad guys and developing a  relationship between Nick and Daisy.        Sounds like a good story?   Well, it was only OK.  I do so enjoy Susan's use of down-to-earth everyday  language and her love scenes are always great.  I also enjoyed the fact  that the leading lady was the &quot;protector&quot; in this book, BUT not  at the expense of making the hero look like a wimp!         I would  recommend you read BIY or BMB.  And Susan's website lists the following  books for reissue in the near future:  Present Danger --Dec.,2000;   Obsessed--July, 2001;   On Thin Ice--Dec.2001.	2000-06-26
US	51777432	R3O8BC7VMTM26O	1551664798	744154624	Duncan's Bride	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Another Great Howard Book	If you read the other reviews you already know the story.  I want to add that Duncan's Bride is one of my favorites along with Loving Evangeline (Madelyn's brother Robert's story).  This is another sexy, sensual story as  only Linda can write.  I love the strength of Linda's heroines and Madelyn  is no exception.  I hear myself chanting &quot;You Go Girl&quot; at some of  her antics.  This one is a definite keeper I'm sure you will enjoy.	2000-06-18
US	51777432	RUFQ7Z1KJSPXR	0446601853	932954693	Charade	Books	5	13	15	N	N	One Of Sandra's Best!	I read this book about two years ago and I think it is one of the best romantic/suspense stories I have ever read.  It seems with only about eleven reviews that it is not one of Ms. Brown's more popular novels.  But  don't be fooled--this is an excellent read.  In romantic/suspense one  element suffers and it is usually the romance end of the story.  But not so  in Charade.  Ms. Brown has put together an excellent mixture of both.  I  initially had reservations about this book because of the subject matter.   I am not a fan of hospital murder mysteries.  But not to worry, Sandra does  not dwell on the medical end of the story.   One reviewer was bored during  the first seven chapters.  I was not.  The murderer is introduced within  these chapters and the best part is you will never guess &quot;who  dunnit&quot;.  I didn't until third chapter from the end.  I think this  is  one of Sandra's best.  Give it a try--you won't be disappointed.	2000-06-18
US	51777432	R37ODTQN4SQZ83	0671019708	691382940	After the Night	Books	5	109	120	N	N	Howard's Best	I read this book for the first time two years ago and have read it three times since then.  I read and enjoy everything Linda writes and in my  opinion this one is her best effort and Gray is her most romatic hero ever.   Faith has been in love with Gray since she was a child.  Although he finds  Faith attractive, he is tortured by the fact that his beloved father ran  off with Faith's mother and neither have been heard from for years.  The  night Gray realizes his father is gone, he evicts Faith and her family from  the shack where they live on his family's land and runs them out of town.    Years later Faith returns and Gray is determined to run her off again, but  he cannot deny his attraction to her and admires the way she will not back  down from him.  In a small town where his wealthy family &quot;owns&quot;  just about everything and everyone Gray makes sure the local supermarket  and gas station will not sell to Faith so she must purchase food and gas at  a nearby town.  This from a ruthless hero who is at her doorstep 10 minutes  after she phones him for help, terrified after finding roadkill in her  mailbox.  Believe me you'll love this book. Linda also writes the best love  scenes.  The porch scene.......what can be said that already hasn't been  said about it except for the fact that it has to be one of the most erotic  love scenes ever written.  You'll laugh your way through the public  restroom love scene and I also enjoyed Faith's massage from Gray on her  custom made kitchen table.  This is a very sensual and sexy read as only  Linda can write.  Handle this one with asbestos gloves.  After The Night is  my all-time favorite and I wish I could rate it ten stars.	2000-06-16
US	51777432	RRGG92DD3ULFK	038080736X	946460613	Bride for a Night	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Disappointed!	After waiting months for this book I also was very disappointed.  Wife For A Day was a great book.   Bride For A Night, unfortunately was not.  I almost didn't finish it but I did hoping it would get better.  I did not  like Cairo's character.  She was too indecisive.  As an expert explorer,  Duncan did some pretty dumb things.  Even though their son had a high IQ,  he seemed a little too smart for a four year old.  The relationship between  Graham and Phoebe did not seem real--I don't think anyone moves as fast as  they did or after grieving for his wife for five long years Graham gets  over her in a few days.  Most scenes were short and clipped.  I could go on  but I won't.  Sorry Patti this one just didn't do it for me.   But I won't  give up on you.  I look forward to your spinoffs from Wife For A Day  (Lauren Remington and Mike Flynns stories).	2000-05-29
US	51777432	R1CF2Y8GWM3O4S	038081255X	967342288	Wish You Were Here	Books	5	28	34	N	N	Wish I Was There	I almost missed this book!   I decided to purchase it afterreading the many rave reviews.  I'm sure glad that I did notmiss out on this wonderful story.  This book contains humor, two romantic relationships, some sad moments and sensual, sexy love scenes.  Zoe Cash and her sister Lyssa live on Abrigo Island . Zoe considers herself the unofficial matchmaker for this beautiful island. This is truly a delightful read.  Enjoy the fireworks and fun.  I look forward to Christie's next book.  END	2000-04-04
US	51777432	R2AUL3QB72QHL5	0373079907	634629134	Catch Me If You Can (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 990)	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Pure Southern Sizzle	I enjoyed everything about this book.  From the attractive cover and title to the very last page. I don't read every SIM but after reading the reviews for this book, I decided to buy it.  I'm sure glad I did.  The characters  were  well developed, the love scenes between Beau and Kit are HOT and  their teasing sexual banter is erotic and refreshing.  Add to that a truly  good story, a beautiful Southern plantation and an old Civil War family  legend.  Don't miss this one.  I look forward to more books from Ms. Bruhns  and hope she will consider writing cousin Remi's story soon.	2000-03-20
US	51777432	R2VMZQ770B385A	1551665743	118691559	Mackenzie's Mountain	Books	5	25	27	N	N	More MacKenzie Books	Chance MacKenzie's story will be released in August, 2000 as a Silhouette Intimate Moment entitled &quot;A Game of Chance&quot;.  Also, MIRA Books will reissue Joe's story &quot;MacKenzie's Mission&quot;  in July, 2000.   Let's hope Linda is back to stay at Silhouette.	2000-03-16
US	51777432	RN4UZ3EBCENWL	0380807351	394120180	Wife for a Day	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Wonderful Read!!!!	I laughed, I cried, I did not want this book to end!!!!  I was pleasantly  surprised that the author was able to develop her characters so well  in such a short, fast paced read.  This is my first Patti Berg book and it  will not be the last.  I now have a new &quot;favorite&quot; author.   Patti--please consider writing Mike Flynn's story!!	1999-08-26
US	51777432	R25112Z305O3OJ	0385310382	834773975	Heartbreaker	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This should have been titled &quot;A Race To Save The World&quot;	The title of this book is deceiving.  This is a far cry from a romance novel.  But if you like suspense and adventure this book was an excellent read. The action was non-stop.  I agree with another reviewer--this should  be make into a movie.	1999-06-17
US	51777432	R16XPSJC991CZO	0671027948	391820609	Under The Boardwalk: A Dazzling Collection Of All New Summertime Love Stories (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	How does harriet rate?	I would like to know how harriet can review this book when the publishers haven't released it yet.	1999-05-27
US	51777432	R3SG84IZCLN52Q	0380727757	365371810	Letting Loose	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Where's the Romance?	If you enjoy a wimpy hero, a childish insecure heroine, a whinning ex-husband an obnoxious ex-mother-in-law, and a host of &quot;extra characters&quot; who take up too much print then this book is for you.  Too  many characters leaves no time to develope a romance between the leading  roles.  This book bored me with juvenile and repetitive dialogue.  This is  the worst book I ever read.	1999-04-30
