US	51784936	R37B3E5PUFZXI5	0060763280	846347314	Secrets of the Millionaire Mind: Mastering the Inner Game of Wealth	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Combines Tools As Well As Programming the Subconscious Mind	I have read lots of books on the topic of How to Become Wealthy, etc. This one is unique because the author gives the reader, in detail, two important things: 1) Statements to say to yourself, to program your subconscious mind, and 2) Excellent, practical ways to become wealthy. One of the most helpful to me was to stay away from negative people, and especially this - try for one week not to complain, about yourself or anyone else. Believe me, even if you don't become wealthy in terms of money, you'll be a lot wealthier in terms of peace of mind and happiness! <br />Most books, unfortunately, only give you one type of information, not two. I absolutely believe that the more tools and information you get re: getting wealthy, the better off you are. If you want to get wealthy, get this book! Also - the tape is great to listen to. The author's enthusiastic style is contagious, plus you get to listen to his messages which \\"stick to you\\" even more than reading the book.	2005-09-18
US	51784936	R1NR7DVN8L3DR8	0764540440	900854997	Technical Analysis For Dummies	Books	5	109	113	N	N	THE Book to Start With If You Want to Really Learn Technical Analysis	Fortunately for me, this was one of the first books that I bought when I began learning technical analysis. This is probably the best book I own which touches on virtually every aspect of the subject. It is clearly written, and you can certainly read it even if you know nothing. Beleive me, we have all been there. And technical analysis can seem overwhelming when you begin.  <br />My copy of this book is worn, is thoroughly underlined, and I have marked the most important pages. I still refer to it. If you want to get your money's worth, believe me, you should buy this book!	2005-09-18
US	51784936	R2JRMO0MJ4HT92	0684833638	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Trapse Around Paris with Hemingway!	Hemingway is one of my favorite novelists. Fortunately, he is as terrific a non-fiction writer as he is a fiction writer. <br />He shows you a Paris that was so full of life, and opportunity; You can immediately see why American writers flocked there in droves in the twenties.  <br />In this book, the writing is so good that you feel that you are drinking in the quaint Parisian bars until all hours, and that you, too, are drinking in all the sights and scenes of the most inspiring city in the world at that time.  <br />Also, from his friendship with Gertrude Stein to the guilt he felt after an adulterous affair, Hemingway holds back nothing.  <br />For two years I lived in Oak Park, IL, where Hemingway was born and raised. The community has made the house he lived in a museum honoring him, and holds a Hemingway festival. I sorely miss living there; it certainly isn't Paris back in Hemingway's time (what is?!)but it is wonderful to have a museum to such an adventurous American writer.	2005-07-12
US	51784936	R25YU91NFQAOC2	068483412X	405472642	The Provincials	Books	1	15	23	N	N	Evans should update his book! The South is no longer 'Fiddler on the Roof'!	I am a Jew living in a college town in Mississippi for the past 5 years. I was born & raised in the North. I think Evans should rename his book \\"Fiddler on the Roof in the South\\". His book is a very nostalgic look back at Jewish history - as it was in the past here. It's very much: the southern Jews were all so happy, they all fit in and were accepted, etc. He does cite a few instances where they had problems - but these usually involved us 'Yankee Jews', like the instances when a few (Yankee)Rabbis in the South fought for civil rights.  <br />Evans should realize that times have REALLY CHANGED HERE! The evangelical Christians in my town (which is most people here) harrass me like crazy - 'I am praying for you!' 'Have you read the words of Jesus, who was a Jew like you?' 'When will you come to my Church'. Blah, blah, blah. Thank God for the minority of Catholics, Methodists, Presbyterians and a few others who live here. They are the only ones to accept me for the way I am, and the way I will stay - a Jew.  <br />I want all who are reading this to realize that I am only speaking for my experience. Jews who reside in cities in the South have told me that they have had far better experiences, and that they cannot relate to what I am saying. <br />But I do want to ask Evans a few questions: <br />1) If things are so great for the Jews in the South: Why have you lived in New York for decades now??? <br />2) Why don't you at least write either a new Forward to the book, a magazine article, etc., contrasting some of the ways in which the lives of Jews in the South have changed over time (for some of us at least), primarily due to the rise of the evangelical Christians? <br />I read Evans' books before I moved here, and nothing much he describes in his books is my life here. For a Jew who really cares about her/his religion living here is depressing; it is practically Jew-less; and, at best, the majority of a certain denomination of Christians here ignore me. (By the way, Iam planning to move to a city!) <br />By the way, don't bother writing to me to tell me that I am \\"wrong\\", or to invite me to things like the Bible Study at your Church. Believe me, with all the praying for me that is going on in this town, and all the myriad attempts to convert me, if it hasn't happened by now, as they say in these parts, it just ain't gonna happen!	2005-07-02
US	51784936	R1PNJS3UZKQJ6B	0312216173	8621249	Doing Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Amazing true story of prisoner who became a lawyer	As a lawyer myself, I was stunned to read this book about Jerry Rosenberg, a prisoner who became a lawyer while he was in prison. (At that time you could become a lawyer through a correspondence course program - and it was tough!)  <br />A high school dropout, a small-time hood for the Mob, you'd think he'd be the last person to pursue a profession in prison. But Rosenberg explained that studying law books was \\"something to keep your sanity\\", and that it gave him hope to \\"get even\\" with the system by representing other prisoners, and it gave him the hope he needed that one day he could represent himself so that he could ultimately win his own freedom. (He has always denied that he was guilty of the crime for which he was convicted - the murder of two police officers in New York). <br />The whole book was remarkable, but I was especially amazed to read his account of the riot at Attica. (He was sent there after he won one of his own cases, which resulted in his sentence being changed from death to life in prison). His details of the hellhole Attica had been prior to the riot was utterly shocking, and his blow-by-blow description of the riot itself was nothing short of riveting. It is NOTHING like the newspaper accounts of Attica! If you read this book be warned - you cannot put this book down once you get to this part!  <br />As far as I know - Rosenberg is still in prison(?). <br />Also - this story was made into a movie: \\"Doing Life\\" with Tony Danza.  <br />Next time a would-be lawyer whines to me that he or she cannot go to law school because of 'whatever', I will tell them the story of Jerry Rosenberg.	2005-05-13
US	51784936	RYXBMQBZ5W943	0440227534	935109813	Number the Stars	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Righteous Gentiles	My parents are Holocaust Survivors, and when my 10-year old daughter brought this book home from school, it piqued my curiousity. Then, after she finished it, I read it. Although I have read a lot about the Holocaust, even I learned some new things from this book, like about the handkerchiefs soaked with chemicals so that the Nazis' dogs couldn't detect human scent (so that the Jews hidden in boats wouldn't be detected). <BR>  More importantly, this book was so well-written that I wept through the entire second half of it. I have always deeply felt that rescuers of the Jews were really angels wrapped in human bodies; what they did was one of the most humanitarian acts in history. There is a Holocaust Museum in Israel, Yad V'Shem. There is a long path to the entrance of the Museum lined with trees, called the Avenue of the Righteous Gentiles. Beneath each tree is a plaque, and, with one exception, each plaque is dedicated to a different individual who helped save a Jewish life during the Holocaust. After I finished this book, I realized why the only plaque not dedicated to an individual is dedicated to an entire nation: the people of Denmark. May they always be remembered and honored for what they have done.	2003-05-05
US	51784936	R26L670DPHQBWR	044023722X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	4	1	1	N	N	My First Grisham Book - and it was Great!	I had only two reasons to read this book: 1) My book group was reading it; 2) I moved to the South about 2 years ago, and felt I should learn more about it. I was very pleasantly surprised at how well-written it was! I had always assumed Grisham was one of those &quot;genre&quot; writers who relies on murders, mysteries, etc., (plot) to sell his book, rather than working on being a good writer, and having the writing sell his book. This book is very good at showing a &quot;slice of life&quot;: life on a farm in the Arkansas Delta, at a time when it was very difficult eking out a living at farm work. You really get a sense of how terribly hard picking cotton was, and how even a 7-year old was expected to pick. You get a feel for the people, and the economic differences between them; the sharecroppers vs. those who were luckier, and &quot;rented&quot; land, etc. I was disappointed in the New York Times Book Review of this book. The critic panned Grisham for failing to depict any African-Americans. The critic had no idea that there were few African-Americans in the Arkansas Delta at that time. All in all, I would definitely recommend this book.	2002-05-20
US	51784936	R3R89VQR7NED71	0964374099	122472371	Jew Boy	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Difficult Life of a Child of Survivor	Like the author, I am also a child of Holocaust Survivors. There are many excellent things about this book. This book clearly demonstrates that suffering did not always end with the Survivors themselves; sometimes we, as their children, also suffered. I put this book at the \\"extreme\\" end of 2nd generation stories; Kaufman's mother was very disturbed, and physically abused him. In addition, his father, even though he wasn't a Survivor, did nothing to protect his son from his mother's wrath. If this alone did not make for a miserable childhood, his father squandered his income, and Kaufman's parents provided little of the author's needs, both physical and emotional; one horrific scene was how they cruelly tricked him, and refused to give him the Bar Mitzvah they had promised.  One excellent part of the book, is when the author describes very well the unique experiences of children of Survivors. One fine example is when he writes about a favorite teacher, an American Jew from Michigan, who lauds his writing abilities, but at the same time pities him for having a Survivor mother. He writes about how deeply inferior he felt in that moment; that the gulf between him and his teacher was \\"immense\\", as she was \\"truly American\\", and no matter what he did, he could never be. I have felt this so many times myself, but only in this book have I seen it described so perfectly. He goes on to write about his great isolation, how it lead to alcoholism, but how, in the end, it was writing poetry which lead him to sobriety, and to regaining his soul. ...This book is a very honest portrayal of the most difficult childhood of a 2nd generation person I have ever read.	2002-05-17
US	51784936	R34RNX535U5T4Q	0876043759	84640668	Story of Edgar Cayce: There Is a River	Books	4	7	7	N	N	There was once a Remarkable Man . . .	I have read many biographies on Cayce, but this is one of the few in which the author actually knew Cayce. It is really a testament to the man's abilities - he had psychic powers that have yet to be matched. One of the things to be learned is that Cayce refused to charge for his services - he really did see his gift as something to help mankind. A fascinating note re: the author - Sugrue suffered badly from a chronic condition. Cayce actually did a reading, telling him what to do to cure it. Sugrue followed what Cayce said for a while, but then stopped, resorting to the common medical treatment for the time. Unfortunately, he died. A true irony for the author who honored Cayce in this wonderful biography.	2002-05-14
US	51784936	R2LGVAIT7R433W	038072930X	571083724	Turbulent Souls	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Best Book Proving Individuals' Needs to Choose Own Faith	I was raised Jewish, and am very satisfied with my own religion. Even so, I feel that there are many people who feel strongly compelled to choose a religion they were not born into. We are all individuals, and have unique spiritual needs; I do believe that is why there are so many different religions in the world. Dubner's story is the best example I have ever seen. His parents left the Judaism of their birth, and immersed themselves fully in Catholicism. Similarly, as ironic as it was, the author eventually grows alienated from the very same religion which had been so compelling for his own parents, and turns to the religon they rejected. His story, how he found his way to Judaism, is the best part of the book. His needs were very different from those his parents had had. Two other points which I think are important: The first is, I thought his immense desire for his mother to completely accept his turning to Judaism was overdone. He even admits she was the most devout Catholic he had ever known; it would have been unrealistic to think she could have completely accepted his turning to the very religion that she had left herself. Also, I thought it was tremendously sad that the author's paternal relatives turned their backs on his father when he became Catholic. I was not surprised at all, as I have observed this firsthand, myself. I just am saddened when an individual, such as Dubner's father, had to choose between his own spiritual needs, and the terrible pain of never seeing his own father again. In any event, this book is incredible, and I recommend it for anyone seeking his or her own spiritual path. We are truly fortunate to be living in a country where there is freedom of religion, and individuals can choose what their souls need.	2002-04-10
US	51784936	RA3Q7NWK4TO91	0688172865	913291292	Limbo: A Memoir	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Atypical Memoir	I enjoyed this book, for the most part. Ansay is best when she addresses her disease. This is an atypical memoir, as most memoirs concerning diseases have the following pattern: I was healthy; I became ill with a specific disease (or addicted, alcoholic, etc.); I recovered. Ansay is courageous in showing us a less &quot;hopeful&quot; situation. To this day, she does not have a specific diagnosis of her affliction, and not only has she not recovered, she is realistic in revealing that she may never recover. She writes about what her day-to-day life is like, and that it may never change. She also honestly writes about peoples' different reactions to her in a wheelchair; many had the gall to ask what was wrong, and others were wondering what she must have done &quot;wrong&quot; in a past life &quot;to deserve this&quot;! No one would just let her have the disease, plain and simple, and go on with her life. She shows that she is more than her disease; she is a sensitive, open writer. As other critics have noted (Sontag, etc), for some reason, our society demands that illness must have meaning. Ansay is explaining, in this memoir, that it just is what it is.	2002-04-05
US	51784936	R2LQMEBG2G0YNP	0827605838	236547285	Distant Sisters: The Women I Left Behind	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Fascinating Look at a Secret World of Jewish Women	I really enjoyed this book. The author, who has a unique perspective of having been raised Haredi, interviews a varied group of women who currently live that ultra-Orthodox lifestyle. She demonstrates that some love it, others hate parts of it, while still others are somewhere in the middle. Having been raised somewhat modern Orthodox myself, I am amazed that these women were willing to be interviewed at all, and even more amazed that they were as frank as they were. It demonstrates that the author possesses a unique sensitivity and understanding of this &quot;closed&quot; community. This book is a great revelation of this devout group of Jewish women. In particular, what will &quot;shock&quot; many is the strict proscription against the Haredi women from knowing the non-Haredi world, which includes a prohibition against the reading of secular materials. Another is the women's &quot;sacrifice&quot; of their own personal goals to ensure that their children do not suffer any prejudice in their communities. An example is one mother who enrolled in college, even though she knew that this action may prevent her daughter from making a good &quot;shiduch&quot;, or marriage, in the Haredi world. The only criticism I had of the book is that I truly wished that the author had related, in detail, why she herself divorced her Haredi husband and left this world. Her personal story would probably rival any she related in her book.	2001-08-20
US	51784936	R3VFW2KUD50ODW	0060956496	776279781	Layover	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A VERY Sexy, Independent Woman . . .	I really liked and admired this book. Here, is a sexy, independent woman, who sleeps with whomever she wants to, and basically does what she wants.  Usually, these women are drawn as stereotypes: the \\"bad\\" girl; the hooker, the \\"brainless\\" woman, etc. But, for once, an author has created a character who is well-rounded, and likeable. [...] The author does a fantastic job drawing that \\"limbo-land\\" the heroine is in. And what else would she be in after suffering a terrible two-punch [...]?! I also loved how she is so deeply curious concerning [...]; this is so human and believable. A great writing job, depicting an independent woman on the brink of . . . we don't know. But she is getting someplace, somehow, and doing it her own way.	2001-07-26
US	51784936	R3E4JH4PKGKNRA	0679452753	416162364	The Buddha from Brooklyn	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Tremendous Culture Clash	I liked this book, but I could only like it for what it was. I am familiar with Zen Buddhism, and two basic problems continue to haunt me: one is that Jetsumna, although recognized as a reincarnation of a Tibetan lama, was given absolutely no training for her role by the Lama who recognized her! This is unheard of in the East; (the Dala Lama was trained from the age of 5!) I think this may be, in part, the cause of her &quot;unfitness&quot; to be a true spiritual leader. The second problem is that the book should have been written by an author thoroughly versed in Tibetan Buddhism. Instead, we are seeing a Tibetan Buddhist community &quot;through&quot; Western eyes, and we do not have the ability to judge it. This is a sad flaw. But the book is beautifully written, and the author admitted that even she, at times, was attracted to the quiet simiplicity of Buddhism.	2001-06-17
US	51784936	R2NW6R3M6XJ7QJ	0312975589	202586105	Been There, Done That: An Autobiography	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Sex and Drugs and . . . More Sex and Drugs!!!	Be forewarned: this book is like eating junk food, but who says that can't be fun sometimes! Like some of the other reviewers, when I was growing up, Eddie Fisher was a household word. This was especially true for those people from my background: working-class Jews. They viewed Eddie, (one of their own) as a hopeful sign that their own lives could be changed. Then, quite sadly, he slowly became a laughing stock - he seemed to lead the Hollywood gossip columns in terms of scandals. And that is just what this book consists of - his &quot;explanation&quot; of his scandals. Unfortunately, you don't know what to believe in reading this book; he explains that all of his ex-wives were horrible, but its difficult to feel sorry for someone who, at minimum, kept making the same mistakes repeatedly, by choosing the wrong women to marry, or who, more likely, made a terrible husband himself. Yet, in great contrast, is the best part of the book by far - his discussion of his relationship with Elizabeth Taylor. She was the only wife he truly loved, and it was wonderful to see him finally care about someone other than himself.  That part of the book is actually quite touching, and sadly, is such a contrast to the rest of his life, which consisted more of shallow relationships and a constant supply of drugs. With that in mind, it is hard to believe this superficial man, and I truly wonder if he just wrote this book as a final stab at making some quick cash, by offering &quot;juicy tidbits&quot; concerning sex (or supposed sex) with some famous movie stars.	2001-04-29
US	51784936	R1KEG4HIO5FFT1	0767903633	142134349	Wake Up, I'm Fat!	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Read Up, This Book is Great!	Like some of the other reviewers, this book is not (thankfully) what I thought it would be - some long-winded gossipy tale re: how Mannheim became a starlet. Instead, it focuses on self-love and self-acceptance. The author happily decided not to risk everything on losing weight - she almost died doing that once, with drugs. Instead, at some point, she told everyone, this is who she is, and that's that. What amazed me is that she had the cajones to do this in Hollywood - where everyone tries to be a size 3 (or is it a 1?!) and that she was able to, and was recognized for her talent, on top of everything else. She is truly a role model for larger women (and men) everywhere, as she is for the rest of us who don't meet some stupid cultural stereotype. God bless her - and a big Congrats on that cute new baby boy of hers! She shows us that large people CAN have it all.	2001-03-27
US	51784936	R16VFMYU81G32O	0618059458	301023145	The Human Stain	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Roth is a Literary Genius When Revealing Human Rage	This book had a minor plot which stunned me. I expected the book to be solely about Coleman Silk - the Black man &quot;hiding out&quot; as a White man so he could have his dream career, as a professor of Classics. But Roth had a big surprise in store for us with this book - his depiction of Les Farley, the Vietnam Vet, who is the ex-husband of Silk's girlfriend. As usual, there is no better writer than Roth when it comes to revealing deep-seated human rage. Farley barely speaks in most of the book, but Roth takes us on a journey way beneath the surface of this man. Roth shows us that Vietnam took out this man's guts, unraveled them slowly in the most painful way possible, and then just stuffed them right back in. The passage that most took my breath away was one in which Farley, who is in a therapy group made up of ex-Vets, is lead by the group to have dinner in a Chinese restaurant. I have never served in Vietnam, and naively, didn't understand at first, why Roth was writing about some minor character's trip to a Chinese Restaurant, which is an everyday event for most of us. But as Roth reveals each and every thought this man has, we see that he was so traumatized by having fought in Vietnam, that he can barely even enter the restaurant. (The group forces its members to go, thinking this trip will help them heal their traumas.)Every Asian face, the sight of chopsticks, even the cooking smells, bring back the worst of the worst memories of Farley's experiences. I was especially amazed at Roth's ability to capture a person's detailed memories and, in particular, such appalling ones, when Roth, himself, never fought in Vietnam. I would love to hear from any Vietnam Vets re: whether Roth really hit it on the money with this piece of writing. The rest of the book was fine; although sad. It seems that the best part of Coleman Silk's life was when he had to hide whom he truly was; but I expected this to be the case. The truly unexpected piece of genius was the depiction of the Vietnam Vet; when I finished the book, it was this character that I will never forget. I have read several of Roth's books; he is the absolute master at displaying deepseated individual human rage.	2001-03-09
US	51784936	R1CY668OTV3ZZL	0316549339	35438410	Jackie, Oy!: Jackie Mason from Birth to Rebirth	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Funny Man! But Oy - What a Sad Childhood	I really enjoyed this book, but it describes a very &quot;bittersweet&quot; life. Jackie overcame tremendous odds - an impoverished childhood, headed by an overbearing father who insisted that his son become only a Rabbi - and forget the comedy shtick. But Jackie couldn't; and even though he became a Rabbi, he soon cast that off to pursue what he was naturally good at - making people laugh. And there are plenty of laughs in this book. In particular, I praise him for standing by the sense of humor he developed and believed in; even when he was told too many times that he was &quot;too Jewish for the Gentiles&quot;. He proved that everyone came to love his jokes, and to accept him. I give Jackie credit for having the Chutzpah to really let us into his life - even though some of it wasn't pretty. But - don't let me distress you too much - if you want to laugh: get this book!	2001-01-23
US	51784936	R2OZX2GOPFT0XW	1573225126	662106244	Prozac Nation	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Conveys What Depression Is and How Her Generation Battles It	This book was terrific for two reasons. The first is that it is THE book which finally conveyed to me what depression is. I could never understand how someone could be depressed if he or she was successful, intelligent, attractive, and/or articulate. Wurtzel made me finally understand that one has nothing to do with the other. Here was a scholarship student at Harvard, who had boyfriends, but who had struggled with this horrible disease since childhood (apparently). At first, she and everyone else blamed it on her lousy childhood - her parents horrific marriage and divorce, her dad later &quot;abandoning&quot; her. By the end of the book, it is apparent that her illness was basically organic, and that the treatment - prozac and lithium - was the key to wellness. I have always been an advocate for medication if it is appropriate, and she makes the best argument ever for the use of prozac. Fortunately for her, her psychiatrist prescribed her prozac when it first came out, and the results seemed like a miracle. However, sadly enough, she explains that even prozac may not, in the end, be able to &quot;hold back&quot; her depression, because depression may be stronger and more virulent, ultimately. This is the best book I have read, so far, on describing what it is like to battle depression, and on how medication may help. The second reason the book was so good, is because it is the first I have seen to bemoan the &quot;emotional numbing&quot; of so many young people. Wurtzel wisely comments for instance, on how a father can leave his daughter, and the daughter is expected to feel &quot;nothing&quot;, like she can &quot;handle it&quot;. The same goes for sleeping with someone who then leaves you, etc. She laments also on how tragic her generation is; how her friends almost all have divorced parents, and they sit around and compare notes re: divorces, etc. This is tragic, and the experiences take a tremendous toll on these young people, yet they are expected to &quot;feelnothing&quot;. No wonder some of them feel depressed!	2000-11-30
US	51784936	R1T2LEAHBPF81H	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	I Should Have Read Virginia Woolf First!	As I have never read any of Woolf's work, please judge the following with this caveat. The best part of this book is the beautiful language. The imagery, the sheerness of the author's words made me think that perhaps Cunningham is also a poet! However, with that said, by the end of the book I was disappointed with his lack of character development. It would not have taken him too long to clue us in to the backgrounds of these people. This is especially true in the case of Laura, whom he depicts as a stereotypical fifties housewife, who is exceedingly bright and curious, but feels somewhat trapped. Except for these facts, we learn practically nothing about her at all. With that said, I would still recommend this book for its gorgeous language, and the fact that it also made me want to run out and read Virginia Woolf!	2000-10-23
US	51784936	R2YAQDGLFNQ01S	0786864281	519381628	Chosen By God: A Brother's Journey	Books	5	6	6	N	N	For Those of Us with Ultra-Orthodox Relatives &amp;  Friends	I was astounded by the subject matter, as I myself have a cousin who became ultra-Orthodox, as did Tuvia, the author's brother. I appreciate the  book's central thesis: how do we negotiate a decent relationship with  relatives/friends/neighbors, etc., who have become Ultra-Orthodox when we  have not? Little has been written on this topic, before this book, even  though I know many people who have experienced this. I was raised very  traditionally Jewish, (although not Ultra-Orthodox), so the world of the  Ultra-Orthodox, although very different from my world, did not shock and  astound me, as it did the author. With that said, what is also most  important about this book is an examination re: why so many Jews who are  not raised Ultra-Orthodox choose to take up that life. Like Tuvia, my  cousin has always had a rigid, extreme personality. Whatever politics or  belief system he has had in his life were always extreme. And I don't think  this is uncommon; another friend of mine whose brother became  Ultra-Orthodox was always begging his parents, when he was a young child,  to give him more &quot;rules&quot;. Granted, these are only anecdotes, but  I think there is something to be said for those with &quot;extreme&quot;  personalities. I was quite impressed that the author was so open and  intimate about his brother, and that he demonstrated his own brother's  tendencies towards &quot;extremism&quot;; it was so realistic, that at  times I thought he was writing about my own cousin and his wife! (she is  much nicer and less rigid, exactly like the author's brother's wife). With  that said, I found the first half of the book disappointing; the author  seemed to whine and whine about his brother. But, by the second half, the  tone had definitely changed; the author hung in there in trying to have a  relationship with his only sibling, and felt much closer to him, depicting  him as much less of a stereotype and more like a beloved relative with both  good and bad qualities. I also loved the depiction of the good qualities of  the Ultra-Orthodox: their sense of community is the best I have ever seen,  (I envy it!), they don't tend to be materialistic, and there is a  tremendously strong spirituality in their praying (davening) that I have  never seen duplicated anywhere else. I am also happy that the author showed  there are plenty of Ultra-Orthodox who don't live the poverty-stricken life  of his brother (my cousin, for instance, does not). Even though I would  have liked to have seen this issue addressed, the author doesn't tell the  rest of us how to negotiate a decent relationship with our own  relatives/friends/neighbors, etc., who have become Ultra-Orthodox (In my  own case, I have given up on my cousin). Of course, he can't do that. Yet I  think he has done a fine job in trying to forge a relationship that is  naturally loaded with land mines.I give the author tremendous credit for  doing this.	2000-09-01
US	51784936	R2CHFNFKFVCDXS	0375406530	663303744	Waiting	Books	2	7	15	N	N	Read It While I was Waiting . . .	I actually read this book while I myself was waiting - in a hotel in  Guatemala to meet the son I was to adopt! Like most of the other reviewers,  this book was a disappointment to me. Interestingly enough, it is the first  book I've ever read which was written in English, but the style makes you  think it was translated from Chinese. The best part of the book is that it  offers a rare view of day-to-day life in China during a terrible period. In  addition, the descriptions are quite beautiful; rendered in a rich, yet  delicate manner. And I was thrilled that the author made the wife out to be  a decent human being, and not some shrew. However, the plot just doesn't  deliver. Even though the idea of it is quite staggering -here is this man  waiting for almost 20 years to marry this woman - there is really very  little dramatic content. Events just happen quietly, unfolding as if you  were watching clouds move in the sky. Why it won the National Book Award is  beyond me.	2000-09-01
US	51784936	R2P20SBPV3NL9Q	0688154425	64608062	Toxic Friends/true Friends: How Your Friends Can Make Or Break Your Health, Happiness, Family, And Career	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Good Description of Bad Friendships, But No &quot;Tools&quot;	I agree with the first customer review -there are many, many more &quot;toxic friends&quot; than people think. With that said, I thought the book is a fine overview of an important subject. However, the author should  have given more discussion and suggestions on how to end a toxic  friendship. I have had to do this recently, and it is very emotionally  difficult. But I have used tools that I have learned over the years such  as: writing &quot;anger letters&quot; to the person, which you never send;  writing &quot;farewell letters&quot; to the person, also which you may  choose to never send. I have learned to cry about the loss, and let go.  Very importantly, I try, in every single case, to learn the important  lesson: what went wrong, and how should I have done things differently.  Unfortunately, the author spends very little to no time on these topics.	2000-07-06
US	51784936	R2917T7J6Q137	0517888297	819302731	Instructions to the Cook: A Zen Master's Lessons in Living a Life That Matters	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Combining Zen and Activism	I liked this book because it combined Zen and activism, a rare combination in our culture (unfortunately). Almost as soon as he hit the streets of New York to set up his Zen Center, Glassman was intent on helping the homeless  in a meaningful way. What I enjoyed the most is when he focused on Zen  principles in doing his activism. When a dilemma arose, he recommended that  people meditate to find a possible solution. In the bakery he set up to  employ the unemployed and homeless, he erected a meditation center so that  people could meditate, if so inclined. I think his merging of spiritual  practice, hard work, and activism is probably a good reason why his  projects were successful. He realized that business without  &quot;more&quot; is not fulfilling, and that spirituality needs to help the  community we all live in, as its purpose is not simply to help our  individual souls. A most worthwhile book. The only criticism: although he  discussed himself, I would have liked to have learned even more about his  background, how he came to the place of combining Zen and activism.	2000-05-13
US	51784936	R1OKYN152IKGHS	068816711X	216433293	Music for Torching	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The Emptiness of Suburban Life	I loved this book. I, like the author, don't like the suburbs, and this book, more than any other, shows why. Except for the ending, it was hilarious! You will never meet a more empty, out-of-touch couple than Paul  and Elaine! It is consistently funny, even as it describes so well its sad  theme. This couple is so inept, they try to burn down their house, and  can't even do that well! As for the characters, Elaine, in particular,  reminded me of so many suburban women that I have known (I was raised in a  suburb). Elaine was so lost that she spends hours going from room to room,  moving the furniture around. Her neighbor is a lush who drinks as she  plants her garden; her friend hides her lesbianism as she cooks gourmet  meals &amp; fixes every gadget imaginable in her house. This is the only  book by Home that I wanted to read and she really knows her territory: the  sad, lonely, empty world that is actually lived by many of the people who  reside in those big houses behind those well-manicured front lawns.	2000-04-05
US	51784936	R3DGIF36YJPZWJ	0395954290	900920530	Double Down: Reflections on Gambling and Loss	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Drowning in Grief by Losing Their Shirts	I thought this book was excellent: a memoir by two brothers who lost $250,000 in riverboat casinos. They describe in detail how they would spend 12 hours or more losing thousands in the slot machines, or, more often, at  blackjack. And how it escalated slowly, and then how the addiction got  completely out-of-hand after both of their elderly parents died.  Apparently, their pattern on each gambling spree was to lose a lot, and  then spend the rest of the night (and sometimes day) winning back the lost  amount. What amazed me is that even after they were indicted for a crime  allegedly committed while gambling, they continued their addiction, albeit  in another casino. Astounding! This memoir is remarkable on many counts.  For one, it is beautifully written (both authors are writing professors),  and also, they attempt to analyze their behavior, the big &quot;WHY&quot;?  I commend them for revealing so many intimate details. It seems that  perhaps the loss of their father, who had been a brilliant architect but an  insensitive father to both, put them over the edge. Raised not to show  feelings, coupled with their belief that their parents were their only true  &quot;community&quot;, perhaps put them in a hard, &quot;no win&quot;  position when they died. And the only way to &quot;win&quot; (or attempt  to) was at the casino. They are excellent at drawing out the allure of  gambling - that, no matter win or lose, they were finally  &quot;feeling&quot; something at the blackjack table. A sad tale of an  attempt to deal with loss in a desperate, impossible way.	2000-03-29
US	51784936	RXHLABJMPGXMM	1573225789	991280088	The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Warning: This is A Book You Can't Put Down!	McBride is an amazing writer. His mother, who always agreed with him that she was a &quot;light-skinned Black&quot;, finally reveals her true heritage: that her parents were poor Polish Jewish immigrants who had  settled in rural Virginia. My own parents are also Jewish immigrants from  Eastern Europe, and McBride does a masterful job as he alternates chapters  about his and his mother's life: one chapter about their lives in New York  as African Americans, the next about her being raised as the daughter of a  Rabbi in rural Virginia. He conveys so well the &quot;Yiddishkeit&quot;,  the Jewish upbringing, of his mother: the observance of the religion and  the culture, her isolation, her horrible treatment at the hands of her  father, and how she was shunned by the other Jews, who were wealthier, as  well as by most of the non-Jews. The only warmth she found from any  community was from the Blacks who frequented her father's store (he ended  up being a merchant, as that brought in more money than being a Rabbi.). It  is no wonder, then, that when she reached adulthood she ended up marrying  two African American men, raising a dozen children in a Black community in  New York, and demanding that they attend Church as well as get a college  education. In spite of her wounding, she lifts herself out of an oppressive  background not only to gain happiness for herself, but to transmit  important values to her children. What is conveyed throughout is McBride's  tremendous love and admiration for his mother. This book is a triumph.	2000-03-05
US	51784936	R29RILXNDV7NOR	0525943692	885570903	With Roots in Heaven: One Woman's Passionate Journey into the Heart of Her Faith	Books	5	22	23	N	N	She Shows The Dark Underbelly of Orthodox Judaism	I could really relate to this book in many ways. I was raised in a very traditional Jewish household, left that branch of Judaism, explored the New Age, and also still practice Judaism (I never really left it). I really  love and admire this book. Firestone shows in sad detail what often happens  when a child from a very religious background decides to head off in  another direction - the parents, relatives, and community shun him or her.  As I read along in the book, and I saw Firestone falling in love with her  husband-to-be (a Protestant minister) I literally heard tense drumbeats in  my head, as I knew her parents would cut her off from their lives. I also  really appreciated the author showing her reaction, how distraught she was  at her own wedding because her parents were so opposed to it, and her deep  grief at her mother's refusal to even acknowledge her existence.  Unfortunately, I have seen this &quot;shunning&quot; in the Orthodox  community, as well as in other religious communities. This book also aptly  explores the spiritual search a great number of Jews undertake - that is to  what is commonly called &quot;The New Age&quot;. Many Jews leave Judaism  for good, but Firestone showed how she returned, and how she had to do it  her way, in the Jewish renewal movement. This is a book that is courageous,  honest, and very well-written. Anyone remotely interested in spiritual  searching would love this book.	2000-03-03
US	51784936	R31DLRR3RC1F9D	0316798762	40996536	The Snow Papers: A Memoir of Illusion, Power-Lust and Cocaine	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Cocaine, and an Insatiable Drive for  Prestige and Wealth	This is one man's story of his battle with cocaine, and I found the facts to be fascinating. He is a from a strict traditional, Mormon, background, which he completely rejects. Having few, if any, guidelines for his life,  and having a deep, deep drive for prestige, power, and wealth, he finds  cocaine to be his perfect companion. He does a masterful job of describing  how it gave him tremendous self-confidence when he had none. He graduated  from Yale law school, and was a top speech writer for Robert Kennedy in his  Calif. campaign, but after the assassination, the author was despondent,  his marriage broke up, and he didn't know where to turn: so he turned to  white powder. It got him everything, or so he thought. He explains how he  would stay up all night thinking up eliborate financial investment schemes,  and how he managed to deceive those closest to him, absconding with a  tremendous amount of money. However, I would have liked him to elaborate  more on why he thinks he got hooked (he also describes turning to booze for  relief). Besides his background, he doesn't get into the relationship with  his parents much, etc. In addition, this book could have been much better  written. It is heavy with repetitive facts, and the section on his reaction  to Kennedy's assasination was crying out for more emotion, more drama.  Although, one highlight in the book for me was his second wife, a French  woman. She first comes across as a golddigger, but when the author hits  bottom (and he hits it hard; the two of them end up in a ramshackle  apartment sleeping on air mattresses for beds), she not only sticks with  him, but helps him get his life back together more than anyone else,  prescribing yoga, meditation, and a growing spirituality. A fascinating  look at how the chic, upwardly mobile, get hooked on cocaine.	2000-02-28
US	51784936	R3C2BNVUM5BVST	0805031898	235565854	The Courage to Write: How Writers Transcend Fear	Books	5	95	99	N	N	Read this Book  If You Want to Write But . . .	This book is a remarkable tool for any writer. You want to write but: have no time, are too scared, think you are no good . . . whatever the reason, this book answers it, in such an understanding and powerful way, that you  think you have no choice but to put pen to paper at last! It is truly  unique. The author also dispells a lot of myths about writing (how  difficult it is; you have to suffer, etc.), and, most importantly, deals  with each and every fear a human being could possible have which prevents  him or her from creating. He states emphatically that all writing takes  courage, sometimes tremendous courage, but that overcoming the fears, and  finally doing the writing is well worth it. By the way, this book is  definitely not just for writers; I gave it as a gift to an artist friend,  and she found it to be so encouraging that she entered a work in a contest  because of it. In addition, I also loved the section in the book where he  explains that we naturally write about that which we have never  &quot;resolved&quot; in our past; I had never seen this written about  before, and it blew me away. The subject matter I write about definitely  falls into this category. Do yourself a favor and read this book.	2000-02-26
US	51784936	R3U8D9HVA8P7B8	0553373153	241403529	Long Quiet Highway: Waking Up in America	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A &quot;Must Read&quot; If You Want to Know About Buddhism in America	This book is unique in so many ways. The reason for the title is very telling: when asked how Buddhism will spread through America, the author's spiritual master replied: &quot;It will spread through the U.S. like a  'long quiet highway'&quot;. What a perfect characterization of this  country! Goldberg does a great job revealing how she is attracted to  Buddhism. One passage I will never forget is her description of the first  time she met her spiritual leader (Roshi); she reveals to her readers, in  perfect detail, how the Roshi was watering a flower, and how every bit of  his attention was focused on that action. Goldberg is truly a wonderful  writer. I also was tremendously moved by her description of her  relationship with Roshi, and how she grieved so deeply when he died. (I am  going through something similar myself, and it is a uniquely emotional  experience). I have never seen an author deal with this specific subject  matter before. Natalie Goldberg, thank you so very much for this tremendous  and deeply personal book.	2000-02-23
US	51784936	RDQANGXTRXU19	0805056254	637588799	Sweet Invisible Body: Reflections on a Life with Diabetes	Books	3	8	17	N	N	The Author's Diabetes Coupled with Her Parents' Bad Marriage	I read this book because I have known several diabetics who have died due to their diseases; one was one of my best friends, and I still mourn for him. (He refused to take insulin). I wanted to understand what the  &quot;silent, diabetic&quot; parts of his life was like. The author does  provide some insight; her best passages are those where she relates  specific incidents in her life in which her disease played a prominent  role. In one, she shows how a trip to Italy was spoiled because her friend  traveling with her left her &quot;stranded&quot;, and the author spent a  disjointed, horrific evening attempting to get her blood sugar in order, in  a land in which she didn't know the language, and couldn't explain to  people what was going on. However, the book has far too few of these  excellent pieces; instead, it was in need of a very good editor, because  the author drones on and on about subjects having nothing to do with the  subject at hand. For example, do we really need to know how much she loves  horses, in excruciating detail? Also, the author received a terrible  double-whammy: diabetes and a parents' bad marriage. I really think her  life was just as profoundly affected by her parents' bad marriage and  subsequent divorce as by her disease. She has one excruciating lengthy  chapter on all her failed romances; I wanted to shake her and say  &quot;Girl, Change!&quot; I think one of the author's main problems is that  she is far too stubborn for her own good; she is still that 12-yr. old the  day she was diagnosed with diabetes. She acknowledges in the book that  although growing up the medical establishment felt it was very difficult  for a diabetic woman to bear a child, it now feels much more  optimistically. However, the author cannot believe this, and sincerely  thinks this is a main reason she can't find a nice man. In my opinion, she  cannot believe many things: that not all men are jerks who will not want  her because of her disease; that no community will accept her, so that she  must remain alone. I think she is a very difficult person to be around, but  refuses to look herself in the mirror (except for the needle marks left by  the insulin shots!) A telling part of the book for me was when a  &quot;nice&quot; man she dated told her he had to stop seeing her, because  she was so intense that he was throwing up every night! That sums up this  book, in many ways.	2000-02-20
US	51784936	RDW1HC6IUF272	0060194995	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	4	5	N	N	This Book Changed My Life	When I was nine years old, there were &quot;rumors&quot; that African-Americans would be moving into our lily-white community (it was a suburb bordering on the city of Cleveland). The following year  African-Americans did indeed begin moving in - and as a white child I  observed abhorrent racism for several years. The white adults were so  horrific, that I never again could &quot;trust&quot; their opinions. I  never discussed this experience with anyone, and when I first read Harper  Lee's book I was in my twenties, and read it non-stop. For the first time  in my life, here was a child who &quot;voiced&quot; the essence of what I  had felt when I was a child. Bravo to Harper Lee for her incredible  creativity and fantastic writing. This book should be required reading in  all schools in this country.	2000-02-18
US	51784936	RXTPB7ERV7NFW	0060930934	609366713	Wasted : A Memoir of Anorexia and Bulimia	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A No-Holds-Barred Look at Anorexia	This book is incredible - the author hides nothing in her struggle with anorexia, which began when she was quite young. As a  non-anorexic, one thing which astonished me is how the author remembered, in excruciating  detail, what she ate at various meals, sometimes years before. (I can  barely remember what I ate for breakfast this morning!) The fixation on  eating, or on not eating, is truly extreme. The story is a real  page-turner: the author's struggle is one she almost lost. Another point in  the book which was interesting, although it is a minor issue, is the  author's dealings with men - she describes a lot of anonymous, casual sex,  and somehow I linked this with her disease, although she doesn't really  link the two.The only criticism I have is how did the author overcome her  disease? The author gives her treatment very short shrift - I would like to  see another book discussing this issue. But, even so, if you suffer from  this disease or, like me, are curious about it, this is the book for you.	2000-02-15
US	51784936	R28O2ZVUZQH3RS	0553240188	835439981	Dying Inside	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A Funny, Clever Look of a Guy Losing His Psychic Ability	I first read this book over 20 years, and it has still stayed with me. Silverberg is a genius - he wrote this piece, set in Manhattan in the late 1960's, about a guy who was always able to read people's minds, and who  benfitted greatly from his ability. Then - whammo - for no reason - he  begins losing this central part of his existence. Nowadays, many are  writing serious tomes about psychic ability, but Silverberg was showing how  one guy loses it, and it is hysterically funny. One of the best pieces is  about how he makes a living - writing term papers for students - and how  even this is falling apart. The author also does a clever job of showing  how the main character met women by using his ability to read minds, but  how his relationships always somehow &quot;fell apart&quot;. Anyway, if you  want to read a clever, very funny, sendup of a schlemiel who happens to  have an unusual talent, this is a good book to read. And, just like some of  the other reviews, PLEASE someone put this book back in print!	2000-02-14
US	51784936	R2UNMJ05IYIS6W	0140077022	981253911	White Noise (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	One of the Best Comments on American Culture Ever Written	I read this book over 10 years ago and it is so brilliant I have never forgotten it. In addition, I never laughed so hard in my life! I was living in Mexico at the time, and it was exactly what I needed - Delillo is  brilliant in his send-up of those things that are so American! From the  main character of the book, the &quot;Hitler-specialist&quot; professor who  has to hide the fact that he knows no German, to the &quot;cultural  populist&quot; professors who spend all night reminiscing/arguing about  where they were the night James Dean died - this book captures American  culture (particularly American &quot;academic culture&quot;) like nothing  else I have ever read! An absolute classic is the scene where the main  character's teenage son is posing argument after argument (as if he were in  the middle of a college class in Logic) with his father about why it may  not be raining outside (it was pouring!) If you love satire, you will adore  this book!	2000-02-10
US	51784936	R1EWWZTKZCEMIA	0156008475	543415466	Slow Motion (Harvest Book)	Books	2	20	28	N	N	Slow, Superficial - A Waste of the Author's Life	This book was so disappointing. I was drawn to it because the jacket emphasizes that the author was an Orthodox Jew, yet lead a secret life as the mistress of a married man. But, instead, the book was so superficial!  The author should stop looking in the mirror, and start looking more deeply  at life. The book contains no analysis of the big questions presented: Why  did the author have an affair with the married, rich man? What did her  parents' tragedy mean to her? To her sense of life, religion, anything at  all!  The author just presents the facts: nothing more. At least her father  felt Orthodox Judaism was important, but he was the only person presented  who did not lead a completely superficial life. The only interesting part  of the book is when the author finally leaves the apartment her boyfriend  has set her up in, and spends some time living in what she describes a  &quot;normal woman's&quot; apartment and wonders what a &quot;normal&quot;  life must be like; what kind of books would she read, how would she spend  her time, etc. But, other than this unfortunately short segment, the rest  of the book deals with the latest Rolex watch her married boyfriend gives  her, or the fact that the author hated the Hebrew tutor her parents hired,  because he was not attractive. The answer to the author's problems can be  summed up quite easily: get a life. And I mean a meaningful life, one that  isn't completely focused on looks, expensive gifts, and your mother's  maids. Unfortunately, the author completely fails to do this whatsoever.	2000-02-08
US	51784936	R12N87U8TOZNVW	0446607266	994744331	Permanent Midnight: A Memoir	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Best Memoir Written Yet About Drug Addiction	Stahl undertook a tremendous task in writing this book: he set out to write a serious no-holds-barred, yet extremely funny, deeply honest book about his years spent as a drug addict. And he succeeds. One of the things  that impressed me most about this book is that outwardly he appeared to be  &quot;the boy next door&quot; who became a great success. A well-paid TV  writer, shmoozing with famous people in LA, yet all the time, as he put it:  &quot;I made $5,000 per week, and shot up $6,000 per week in drugs.&quot;  He leaves no stone unturned: he shows how his addiction killed his  marriage, permitted him to neglect his daughter, and how he is now  concerned that she may develop the same problem. He also throws the wraps  off the &quot;methadone treatment&quot; he received and how it didn't work.  The only question I have is how exactly DID he recover? I would just love  to find out: please, Jerry Stahl, write another book about your treatment!	2000-02-02
US	51784936	R2DD43AT68A1V	0140126414	742258396	Lithium for Medea (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Women, Beautifully-Crafted Prose, and Drug Addiction	This book is tremendous, and I agree with the other review: Get This Book Back Into Print! Braverman began as a poet, and you can see it in her own unique style. After reading her incredible prose, you'll understand why she has been nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in Poetry. The story is about a  woman heavily addicted to cocaine, whose dad is heavily into gambling  (&quot;the horses&quot;) and is also afflicted with cancer. It's about the  woman's struggle to get away from both the white powder as well as from the  bad men who've helped her get addicted. You will not read better-crafted  prose than this novel...	2000-01-31
US	51784936	R3013U6R6BDS5R	0345373790	458543027	Showing Up for Life: A Recovering Overeater's Triumph Over Compulsion	Books	5	9	9	N	N	She Tells It Like It Is: The True Life of an Overeater	This book is incredible, and (pardon the expression) is written from the gut. The author battled obesity her entire life, and she writes authentically about how food and her weight ruled everything. I especially  loved all the details of her &quot;self-abuse&quot; - like how she, as a  200+ lb. woman wore high heels even though they were severely painful, and  how when she felt &quot;overwhelmed&quot; (which was quite often) she would  hole up in her apartment with incredible amounts of food. She was truly  courageous to reveal all this; especially her roller coaster feelings (and  overeating) when she fell in love with a man. Then, she decides to change  her life, and joins OverEaters Anonymous. Once again, she leaves no emotion  out - how she felt &quot;fearful&quot; weighing her food in public, and her  anxiety as she did the 12-step work. I would just love a sequel: how is her  life today? I think this is the best book I have read on compulsive  overeating and recovery.	2000-01-29
US	51784936	R3KNQM8YE6QWCX	0345377060	548734317	The Search for God at Harvard	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Amazing story of Orthodox Jew Studying Other Religions	I expected this story to be merely a recitation of &quot;what grad school was like for me&quot;. Boy, was I happily surprised! I was raised in an Orthodox environment myself, and the author does a great job of relating what that is like, the good and the bad, and even showing that there are  differences among the Orthodox. (However, I was shocked at his revelation  that the Orthodox engage in pre-marital sex - this has not been my  experence!) At any rate, he does a fantastic job showing how he not only  learned about other religions at Harvard, but was moved by them. In  particular, I loved his explanation of how he actively searched for (and  ultimately found) a class on Christianity that explained the passion of  Christians for their religion, rather than just some intellectual lectures  on the New Testament. Another thing that floored me was his openness about  his personal life: how his parents' divorce devastated him, and how he  wrestled with pondering how he could pursue journalism while keeping all  the tenets of Orthodox Judaism (it was his mother who was his biggest  support!). I also loved how Orthodox Judaism was a way of life for him, and  that he was so secure in it, that he really could go to Harvard and throw  himself into the study of other religions. If you are curious about  religions, this is an absolute must-read.	2000-01-27
US	51784936	R33S0EG533P5KI	1573225487	127424363	The Romance Reader	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A True-to-Life Portrayal of a Rebel Within Ultra-Orthodoxy	I loved this book. I was raised within Orthodox Jewish tradition myself, and feel that this is an accurate portrayal of a rebellious daughter within an Ultra-Orthodox family. I know many of the customer reviews disagree with  me; however, I do feel that within every single culture there are naturally  bound to be certain individuals &quot;who want out&quot;! (Just as there  exist secular Jews who want to be ultra-Orthodox). At any rate, the writing  is excellent. And I especially enjoyed the part around her wedding; her  horrible feelings around her mother shaving her head; and before that,  picking her husband, sadly feeling that it didn't matter whom she picked;  she had to pick him or someone similar. I had two criticisms: one, that the  main character showed no affection for any of the ultra-Orthodox  traditions. (There must have been something she liked about her life!) The  other is the ending; I felt it was too concise and superficial, didn't  really answer what happened after she returned to her family. But overall,  this is a wonderful book, and lets us see a world that is mostly hidden  from view. I only wish the author would write a sequel, so we can see how  the main character deals with non-Orthodox life. I am waiting impatiently!	2000-01-25
US	51784936	R1MGXVVZXWUYZH	068814604X	743238363	An Orphan in History: Retrieving a Jewish Legacy	Books	5	20	20	N	N	An Assimilated Jew Transforms Himself	Cowan was raised as the most upper-class of Jews; he even attended an elite, priveleged high school out East where he was required to go to Episcopalian services. This is the story of how he slowly left that world  and discovered his Jewish roots. Cowan writes from the heart, expressing  all his emotions about his journey, including his fears. I am from an  extremely traditional Jewish background, and was very impressed at his  openness to first learning about something that he really knew little  about, and then gradually beginning to practice it. (One of my favorite  parts of the book is when he puts on tefillin, a morning ritual for  Orthodox Jewish men). In addition, this is also a story about his wife.  Raised as a Protestant, she comes to share his love for his new-found  faith. A unique book. It is a shame that Cowan passed away so young; a  sequel would have been great.	2000-01-19
US	51784936	R27TVUXHDDQRCZ	0873064593	512951510	The Bamboo Cradle: a Jewish father's story	Books	4	30	30	N	N	How a Chinese Baby Brought a Jewish Family back to Judaism	If you have adopted or are adopting (I am in the process myself) this is the book for you. It is a most fascinating tale, and will make you realize that the miraculous does happen - in the most unusual ways. A fairly  irreligious Jewish couple, who are having trouble conceiving, live in China  because the husband has a Fulbright scholarship. One day he is in a train  station and hears a baby cry - she was left abandoned under his seat, in a  bamboo cradle. The couple adopt her, and when they return to the U.S. a  Rabbi informs them that he will not convert the child to Judaism unless she  is raised Orthodox. The couple tries to become Orthodox, and eventually  take to it like a duck to water. (And there are more wonderful surprises!)  The story is unbelievable, and their love for their beautiful Asian  daughter is invincible. The only problem I had with the book is that  eventually the husband (who is the author) throws in religious language all  the time - &quot;God willing&quot;, &quot;It is up to Hashem&quot; (God)  etc., until I wanted to throw the book out. But still, the story is so  unique and loving that it overcomes the book's flaws. Shows you how love  for a child absolutely knows no geographic, national, or ethnic boundaries.  And, by the way, the daughter herself writes a chapter at the end which is  a wonderful touch.	2000-01-17
US	51784936	R16NT1EZ8WGTMU	1568362870	875674438	One God Clapping: The Spiritual Path of a Zen Rabbi	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Interesting, but Narrow and Superficial	As a practicing Jew who attends Jewish services as well as services at a Buddhist Temple, I really looked forward to reading this book. And the story is truly unique: a Jewish man leaves Judaism, practices Buddhism for  ten years, then leaves it and becomes a Conservative Rabbi. An interesting  story, however, the author makes it superficial. Exactly WHY does he leave  Buddhism for Judaism? He never explains in detail. And this is the major  problem I have with this book: he gives us the facts, but he analyzes very  little about his life. In addition, I was dying to know his thoughts on a  situation troubling the Jewish community: why do so many Jews leave Judaism  and become Buddhists? He should have insights, but, like everything else  that doesn't involve him personally, he doesn't even touch on this topic.  An interesting book, but it doesn't go deeply enough.	2000-01-15
US	51784936	R3T78K8PVPVIVB	0140043519	683385169	Junky	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Shocker for the Fifties:Middle-Class Whites Addicted to H!	Burroughs must be Commended for Writing this book when he did - the Fifies! I grew up during this era, and back then we all assumed that everyone lived life like &quot;The Leave It to Beaver&quot; show. From the  very first lines of this book Burroughs tells us he came from a wealthy  midwestern home - and, horrors, became a heroin addict! The book reveals  great details of what life was like: carefully rolling drunks in the  subways for wallets with another junkie pal, going from kicking heroin to  getting drunk day and night, and staying away from &quot;pigeons&quot;,  other addicts who would squeal to the cops. This was probably the first  book to take off the wraps concerning the day-to-day life of heroin  addicts. The style is dated, and at times it bogs down in its  repetitiveness, but we should take our hats off to him for writing about  exactly how life was for him. Sometimes even wealthy, white men on trust  funds end up badly hooked.	2000-01-15
US	51784936	R25I5L61PHE0ZL	0802134459	76890990	Leaving Las Vegas	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Best Account of  &quot;End-Stage&quot;  Alcoholism Ever Written	I read this book years ago, and have never forgotten it. As a non-alcoholic myself, it was an incredible education in how someone stays drunk, from the time he wakes up until the moment he falls asleep dead  drunk. O'Brien described, in incredible detail, things I had no idea about,  such as how an alcoholic carefully proceeds from bar to bar, and how he  hides and &quot;minimizes&quot; what he is drinking to non-drinkers. The  only criticism I have about the book is the character of the prostitute.  She wasn't as well-drawn, and there was no real explanation or development  of the attraction between them. There are probably many lonely hookers and  alcoholics in Las Vegas; so what drew these two so close together? But even  so, I am sure I will never find a better book revealing the life of a man  whose every waking moment revolved around a bottle of booze.  Highly  recommended.	2000-01-12
US	51784936	R56M4XD3AQAEB	0684804328	539917821	Note Found in a Bottle	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Even the Children of the Rich and Famous Can be Alcoholics	Unlike most of the other reviews, I did like this book. However, it is true that it was superficial - Cheever has an equally &quot;addictive&quot; problem with men, in my book, but doesn't really examine it. Also, I learned a lot reading about her father's recovery from alcoholism, but she  should have examined this more in depth. I did like the early part of the  book where I was educated about the early settlers of our country, and how  booze was so VERY important to them. A much better-written examination of a  female alcoholic is the book: Drinking: A Love Story. That book was  excellent, from beginning to end. However, there were a few stand-outs in  this book: whenever I drink champagne, I always remember what Cheever said,  that she thought it wasn't really booze, so that therefore she wasn't  really an alcoholic, &quot;because it was bubbly&quot;. As a non-alcoholic,  these comments showed me the &quot;illogical logic&quot; of an alcoholic.	2000-01-10
US	51784936	RXEGWZSAI2YFD	0688170838	495636268	The Safety of Objects	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Sinister Suburbs	I am thrilled that finally SOMEONE is writing about the boredom of suburban living. (As someone who was born, bored and raised in suburbs, I know of what I speak.) With that said, Homes is excellent at creating a  mood, and with description. The problem is: the stories are pretty much  similar: the suburbs are dark and sinister, and often times some adult or  adolescent is having a breakdown, and more often than not some child,  adolescent or adult gets naked. The best story by far is the first:  &quot;Adults Alone&quot;. This is a classic, and I give it 5 *. It shows  the stark absurb behavior of a suburban couple whose kids are away, and the  couple is so bored/lonely/at loose ends that they just keep getting more  drugs and doing more bizarre things. If she had written more stories on  this level, I would have given her entire book 5*! Unfortunately, Homes  seems to be focused on such elucidating plots as an adolescent boy doing  the nasty with his sister's Barbie doll. Sorry; I wasn't interested.	2000-01-07
US	51784936	R2YPUVZT6KIPZB	0525943692	885570903	With Roots in Heaven: One Woman's Passionate Journey into the Heart of Her Faith	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Firestone Reveals the Dark Side of Orthodox Judaism	I was amazed at this book. It should be required reading for all Jewish Sunday School students (and maybe non-Jewish, as well!) Like the author, I am also a Jewish woman, and I was raised with a tremendous exposure to  Orthodox Judaism. I also have Modern Orthodox and Ultra Orthodox relatives  on both sides of my family. And also, like Firestone, I left Orthodoxy and  explored the &quot;New Age&quot;. What astounded me most about her book is  that it is the first attempt I have seen in non-fiction to show the dark  side of the Orthodox World; that, like all rigid aspects of religion, it  can be quite closed and unforgiving to those who stray beyond its bounds.  My heart was pounding when I read about her romance to her soon-to-be  husband, a non-Jew and a Minister, no less. I knew so well, from my own  experience, that she would be surgically excised from her family for this.  And when her mother treated her like dirt when they ran into each other in  an airport, I began crying; that kind of pain is so renching. Also, her  family would also never accept any spiritual searching outside of Orthodox  Judaism. She was smashing all the carefully constructed codes of conduct. I  admire her tremendously for the courage it took to follow her spiritual  heart as an individual, to look deep into what she needed, instead of what  her family had laid out for her. As she points out, many Jews (and  non-Jews) are doing this. We are not all blindly following the religious  roads our parents took. This book is an excellent example of that, and I  hope there will be many others. Highly recommended.	2000-01-05
US	51784936	R2NUACX7E0EM5T	0679767762	75519272	Secret Life: An Autobiography	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Stark Life of a Sex Addict	I never understood sexual addiction until I read this book. Ryan is incredible - he is able to completely convey what horrors this compulsive behavior meant for him. What said it all to me is when he explained he  would go into bars and pick up whomever - a man, a woman . . . it didn't  seem to matter! (He wasn't bisexual) Another shocker is that he had an  incredible position at Princeton, but just couldn't keep his you-know-what  away from his students. All that mattered is that he HAD to have sex, the  compulsion was so incredibly intense, he just approached whomever was  handy. In addition, this book, surprisingly enough, is amazingly funny (it  reminds me of another memoir, &quot;Permanent Midnight&quot; in that way).  Sometimes I found myself laughing out loud! It seemed that the humor was a  great healer for him. My only regret is that he didn't reveal his  treatment, which I would have loved to have learned about, as his  compulsion was so deeply engrained. Bravo to him for &quot;coming out of  the closet&quot;  on this issue, writing this book, and showing us what  this compulsion took from him.	2000-01-03
US	51784936	R1I47KCPD6WD27	0425128474	10160763	White Rabbit: A Doctor's Own Story of Addiction, Survival and Recovery	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A starkly honest look at a physician addict	Morrision's book should be required reading for all medical students. Here she was - first a straight A student, then voted resident of the year, and finally a well-thought of psychiatrist,when she was in the midst of a  horrendous alcohol and drug addiction that had been going on for years. I  work with physicians who are addicts, and she paints a dark portrait of  them: they, unlike the rest of us, can just write themselves all the  prescriptions they want, until they are stopped. And then it is like a  runaway mack truck hitting a massive brick wall. She also is great at  laying out all the reasons (excuses) for her drinking/drugging: people  don't understand individuals like her, she is so far above the rest of us,  so creative, so brilliant, so . . . fill in the blank. And, finally, when  she is confronted, she does undergo treatment successfully, and describes  what that is like, the difficulties and the triumphs. A marvelous book; it  is the only one I know written from the perspective of a formerly  drug-addicted physician.	2000-01-03
US	51784936	R22Z4YXF8L8FO6	0684814625	908406684	The RESCUE OF MEMORY	Books	1	3	6	N	N	A Good Idea Poorly Delivered	As a daughter of Holocaust Survivors myself, I looked forward to reading this book. How do we cope with our abnormal and difficult backgrounds in trying to live normal lives? How do we date, marry, have friendships, all  the while trying to have the best relationships we can with our parents who  went through such horror? But, unfortunately, the author did a very poor  writing job in this book. She would start out with a simple and important  idea to convey to the audience, then meander for several pages until I, for  the life of me, could not remember what that idea had been. She needs to  &quot;streamline&quot; her writing, so that the reader does not get lost,  and also so that the reader can care about the characters. This book was a  real disappointment.	1999-12-31
US	51784936	R2OQXHMI7OTTMT	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	3	79	85	N	N	A Unique Topic - Post WWII German Youth	What impressed me far more about this book than the main plot (15 year old has sensuous affair with much older woman who turns out to be former SS Guard), was a seemingly minor issue in the book. That issue was that of how  the sons and daughters of the Germans who lived in Germany during WWII  dealt with their &quot;Holocaust Legacy&quot;. My parents are Holocaust  Survivors, and I have read a lot about the Holocaust, but little has been  written on the topic of that first generation of Germans born after the end  of WWII. The author articulately and clearly describes how the sons and  daughters of those Germans who lived through WWII absolutely had no respect  for their parents; that the sheer force of the genocide that their parents  conspired in, ignored, or did whatever, demanded that their children's  feelings toward them just had to plunge far deeper than the  &quot;typical&quot; disdain which every generation of young people have  toward their parents. My only wish is that the author had delved into this  topic even further; as he himself was born in Germany in 1944, he is indeed  a member of that postwar generation of Germans, and therefore has a unique  perspective on the subject. As for the book generally, the plot was nothing  short of incredible. With that said, I thought Parts I and III (the  beginning and ending of the book) were very well-written; the author does a  great job describing the sensuous affair of the teenager, and a great job  at the end, about his conflicting feelings towards his former lover during  and after her trial, and about what ultimately happens to her. However, the  middle of the book was awful; it was written in a superficial manner, with  no real character development. So remember: just keep reading until the  end. All in all, a fascinating portrayal, from a German, of what it means  for the post-war German generation to live with tremendously complex  feelings concerning the Holocaust and their parents.	1999-12-30
US	51784936	R202ZJEY4B0L1C	0140112847	228086584	Children of the Holocaust: Conversations with Sons and Daughters of Survivors	Books	5	63	65	N	N	Bravo for Helen Epstein	As a daughter of Holocaust Survivors, when I first read this book (over 15 years ago), I was astounded. This author was the first to raise the issue at all: how has the Holocaust affected those whose parents survived it?  When I was growing up, not only was the Holocaust itself practically a  taboo subject, but no one ever, ever discussed the children of Survivors.  This author had the courage, the foresight, and tenacity to do just that -  and to do it in the most sensitive and articulate way.<br />When I first read  the first chapter, I was so astounded that I stood up, and read that  chapter standing up! She describes exactly, to the letter, how I felt  growing up: that the Holocaust was a locked black box in your household,  and that its secrets were more secret than sex, or anything else you can  possibly imagine.  Finally, someone has put on paper what I always felt,  but could never describe. Everyone I have ever given this book to, no  matter what his or her background, said he couldn't put it down.  To anyone  interested in the Holocaust - you must read this book!	1999-12-29
US	51784936	R1YJLQ4SVJKXGY	0446607266	994744331	Permanent Midnight: A Memoir	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The best memoir I have ever read!	I read this book over four years ago, and still think about it often. I love to read well-written memoirs, and this is the best-written one I have ever read. Stahl is incredibly funny, and articulate, yet the description  of his devastating life with drugs is nothing short of amazing. If you know  little about drug addiction, this book will educate you like no book can.  This blows the stereotype on junkies - here is a White, professional ,  well-educated (Columbia Univ. grad), whose world explodes over and over  again due to his heroin and cocaine use. There were times reading this book  where I nodded my head and said &quot;he can't possibly survive this  addiction, it's so deep-seated; it's his whole life&quot;. Yet he manages  to. I only wish he would write a sequel.  I have not had a drug problem  myself, yet I work with people who are addicts, and this book educated me  better than anything else has about their behavior, and their world. Stahl  has done what no one else has - He has shown us the life he has lead, and  he leaves no stone unturned, even if it reveals some horrifying things  about him (like taking his infant daughter along literally to a den of hell  in order to buy drugs). Don't pass this book up.	1999-12-28
US	51784936	RENDXV6TU0ARS	0316498602	52781847	Memoirs of a Jewish Extremist: An American Story	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The Only Book of Its Kind	This is a most unique subject matter - I know no other book on it - about a former member of the inner circle of the JDL (Jewish Defense League). On that note, HaLevi offers invaluable information about why he (and others)  joined, and their activities. Most poignant is their work on behalf of the  Jews in (what was then) the Soviet Union; Halevi and his  &quot;friends&quot; not only pulled guerilla theatre-type stunts on  traditional Jewish organizations here in the U.S., &quot;commanding&quot;  them to help these forgotten Jews, but the JDL also travelled to the Soviet  Union to try to &quot;free&quot; the Soviet Jews (it didn't work, however).  The other most compelling piece in his book is his writing about being a  child of Holocaust Survivors - his father, a Hungarian Jew, hid in the  woods for years during WWII and was saved by a kind non-Jew. As my parents  are also Holocaust Survivors, I can attest that HaLevi writes incredibly  well on his background. He explains his own personal story, how he came to  hate Gentiles, and felt that another Holocaust was inevitable. However,  when he fell in love with a non-Jewish woman, this part of his life was  drastically altered. A remarkable book; you won't find another one like it.	1999-12-25
US	51784936	R1SZJAD3KS5IHQ	0385333692	648698209	After Long Silence: A Memoir	Books	5	59	64	N	N	An Amazing Book	Like Helen Fremont, my parents are also Jewish Holocaust Survivors. However, unlike her, my parents never hid their past. Even with our differences, she does a remarkable job of showing something most children  of survivors have in common - how truly difficult it is to &quot;ask&quot;  our parents about their past; I label it &quot;a difficult dance&quot; -  we, as their children, feel we must know about their past, but we don't  want to hurt them by making them spill their guts about the utter  inhumantiy they lived through. This is a difficult topic to capture, but  Fremont did it magnificently. I also felt tremendous sympathy for her. I  truly understand how she felt. The incredible &quot;jolt&quot; (and this is  putting it mildly) when she learned her real identity is probably one of  the hardest things she has ever had to live through. I hope that committing  her story to paper, in the moving way that she did, will help her resolve  her background. She should be commended for opening her life to the rest of  us.	1999-12-02
US	51784936	RG6OPB8KPWE9P	038524388X	274159559	The Passion of Ayn Rand	Books	4	13	19	N	N	Even if you hate Ayn Rand you will love this book	I was floored by this book, and I never have (and still do not) like Ayn Rand or her philosophy. With that said, I loved this book! I read it because I just saw the movie based on it, and was curious as to how Ayn  Rand developed her philosophy, and also why she seemed to have such a  strong &quot;hold&quot; over so many people. This book answered that and  more: it is intelligent, extremely well-written, and I couldn't put it  down! The only problem I had was that Branden (the author) was using it to  work out her anger, etc. at Rand for her affair with Branden's  then-husband. (Even though Branden denies doing this). She really could  have shortened this part of the book. Even so, it explains a remarkable,  unique person and philosophy. I would recommend it.	1999-10-21
US	51784936	RPHILYB43771N	1567510221	594103582	Against Therapy	Books	2	23	31	N	N	Brings up crucial issues, but is too superficial	Finally! Someone actually writes about the fact that therapy does not work much of the time, and that many therapists just cannot do therapy (many are too screwed up themselves). With that said, however, Masson, unfortunately,  is very Angry throughout this book; he is just not distanced enough in many  of the chapters. I suspect that he is upset that he had to leave his  &quot;chosen career&quot;.In addition, he is too superficial about many of  the points he raises; there doesn't seem to be much analysis. He just  states his opinion; and that's about it. This is a true shame. He raises an  important issue; there is a real need for someone to write a good, deep  analysis about why therapy doesn't work for so many people, why so many  therapists are disturbed themselves, and where consumers who are suffering  mentally can seek real help.	1999-10-13
US	51784936	R2FEBM2U7I62NX	0671025732	536505521	My Father's Guru: A Journey Through Spirituality and Disillusion	Books	4	11	16	N	N	A Unique Revelation of Spiritual Seekers in the U.S.	I really enjoyed this book. It has some wonderful comic moments. Also, even though Masson, the author, did not agree with his parents, in this book he writes, in a touching way, about his parents' close relationship  with Paul Bruton, a French mystic. Masson was an adolescent in the 50's in  California when his parents invited P.B., the &quot;guru&quot; they  followed to live with them. His parents were the forerunners of the  spiritual seekers in the decades to follow in the U.S. I did feel Masson  was evenhanded - even though he questioned most of what the Guru instructed  his parents to do, Masson still had respect for him in various ways. A  truly fine look into a unique family who were way ahead of their time.	1999-10-13
US	51784936	RLXNRTFV7WU0T	0226041271	735212039	Bronstein's Children	Books	1	1	2	N	N	A True Disappointment	Becker, who is known for the book Jacob the Liar, starts out with a fascinating premise: a son of a Holocaust survivor, residing in E. Germany, finds that his father and some friends are holding a former concentration  camp guard a prisoner in a cabin. It is the 1970's, and the son wrestles  with this information. What, if anything, should he do? Unfortunately, the  premise is the only worthwhile thing about his book. It just does not  deliver. The characters, especially the son, is superficial, not drawn with  much, if any, depth. I couldn't figure out why the son even cared about  what his father was doing; he didn't seem to care about much else. This  book was a real disappointment.	1999-09-30
US	51784936	RTWHSRNIK5DWC	0375404929	785389269	For the Relief of Unbearable Urges: Stories	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Surprisingly Sympathetic to Orthodox Women	Of all the reviews and comments re: this book, I was very impressed at something which no one has yet mentioned: Englander was very senstitive to Orthodox women, in the sense that he portrayed extremely well those women  who felt constrained by orthodoxy. In particular, I am referring to the  short story re: the woman 'agunah', the grass widow, who wants a Jewish  divorce so very badly, that she conspires to kill the matchmaker. Also I  was very impressed by the story re: the wigmaker, the woman who loves  beauty, but is unable to express herself as fully as she would like within  the confines of the Orthodox culture. For those who have commented that  Englander is cynical about religion, that he refuses to find the  &quot;good&quot; in Orthodox Judaism, in any strict system there are those  who like it and those who don't. He is sympathetic to those who feel  constrained by it, and shows their plight. I have known such people, and am  happy that a few writers are dealing with them. Keep up the good work,  Nathan. We look forward to more stories re: the world you were raised in.	1999-09-08
US	51784936	RDD3QLMNEWK9A	0060114991	60901556	I'm Dancing As Fast As I Can	Books	4	20	23	N	N	One of the first true &quot;memoirs&quot;, this is a compelling book.	I have read my share of memoirs, especially in the last five years which has seen a real proliferation of this type of writing. However, this book is one of the first memoirs to write about drug abuse (valium addiction),  and it holds up well, even after all these years. One of the themes of  these book which was excellent, was the author's relating in great detail  her treatment. She showed that acknowledgement that one has an addiction is  not the way a memoir should end; she wrote compellingly, and with much  courage, about how difficult treatment was, and that no one is ever  &quot;completely cured&quot;. Another issue she raised, which I  wholeheartedly agree with, is how few good therapists there are. She knew  how lucky she was to find a good one at the last hospital she was in. No  one brought up this issue 20 years ago when she wrote this book. Don't pass  this book up.	1999-08-23
US	51784936	R1GUJJ4OZ29MCJ	0671868934	309047157	Not by the Sword: How the Love of a Cantor and His Family Transformed a Klansman	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An Amazing Tale of a Hater who transformed his life	Larry Trapp hated all minorities, women, and committed his life to the cause of &quot;white supremacy&quot;. However, as committed as he was, the work of one man, a Jewish cantor and his wife, broke through the barriers  of hate, dissolving them. The author is masterful, and does a good job of  describing how Trapp became so filled with rage - parents who beat him, and  ravaged by a disease, diabetes, which ultimately killed him. Trapp told the  cantor that he simply did not know how to change - and the cantor and his  family took him into their lives. This story cannot help but touch everyone  who reads it. I read the book twice, and wiped twice. It demonstrates that  even the most evil-filled person may turn himself around. Trapp even went  to the FBI and revealed all he knew about hate groups; he traveled to every  youth group he knew, begging them not to join these groups. A unique,  well-written book you won't forget.	1999-06-05
US	51784936	R1JY763JHAAHUZ	0060156929	276327902	Summer Long-A-Coming	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Should be retitled: &quot;Summer Slow-A-Coming&quot;	There is good news &amp; there is bad news re: this book. The bad news is, its just not that well-written, for the most part, its repetitive, and the characters are caricatures. However, the premise and plot are very  promising - it involves a family of Holocaust survivors, and the narrator  is one of the daughters. That is excellent - that is also my background,  and we need more books on this topic. The plot involves the survivor family  who run a chicken slaughter house in south New Jersey; towards the end of  the novel, the youngest daughter is accidently killed (?) by the older  brother. This creates a suffering of its own for the narrator, another  daughter, who must mourn for her lost sister. But this part is just not  well-written. What is well-written, surprisingly, are several interviews of  the survivor parents who tell their tales of their Holocaust experiences to  Yad Vashem archivists (this was pre-Spielberg). This part of the book is  absolutely riveting - it almost make up for the rest. The author should  have spent more time on developing good characters and less on the  repetitive anecdotes re: life down on the farm.	1999-03-18
US	51784936	R6ONRI2FJS2J6	0385315511	252218970	Drinking: A Love Story	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An Excellent description of alcoholism for everyone	As a non-alcoholic, this book has helped me more than anything else to finally comprehend what life is like for an alcoholic. From the first page, when Knapp describes in stark detail her utter love and devotion to a  bottle of wine, I was riveted. I never understood that you could love a  bottle of booze like you could love a person (or, in her case at times,  more so). Her struggle is so deep, that when she finally decides to get  help, the reader just wants to stand up and cheer. I have never seen  alcoholism described in such stark, emotional terms. She should be  commended.	1999-03-13
US	51784936	R1B42ZIGTAFIR8	0060981180	965900568	Mariette in Ecstasy	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Beautiful minimalistic description of a holy life	Hansen does an excellent job - better than anyone I know- of rendering a &quot;description&quot; of a convent life, in a convent in which silence is coveted and required. He does this by setting a scene so well, so  carefully, so that you feel you have also entered this stark, minimalist,  yet spiritual existence. I also loved the fact that he truly depicts a  young devote woman who was completely focused/obsessed with service to God,  to the point where she developed stigmata. Yet, did she fully develop it?  That is what is so wonderful about this book - it is full of mystery, yet  we feel intensely for this passionate young novice. A wonderful, beautiful  read.	1999-03-13
