US	51791704	R2J7L1K3SXXCP1	0618257470	82369668	The Unquiet Ghost: Russians Remember Stalin	Books	3	5	56	N	N	Paranoia Gulag	Stalin. like Hitler, never got his day in court.  Hochshild  does \\"history\\" a disservice by concealing this reality. <br />Lenin gave paranoid madmen carte blanche to obliterate \\"counter revolution\\" when the US and Britain invaded Russia.  Terror ensued and  did not abate.  Stalin inherited Lenin's perfectly  moral  belief in  socialism but never knew how to save innocent millions. Not only was Russia soaked in blood but  the very spoil of Russia  was fertilized by countless blameless Russian bodies.  Not by Stalin though despite him.  Hochschild commits an enormous error in equating socialism with paranoia and terror. The Cheka was a self perpetuating  police state, like the SS. To insinuate it  embodied socialism is unforgivable. <br />I'll give Hochschild this - his book is gruesome and traumatic.  He previously exposed frightful crimes by Belgium in the Congo, when it  was too late to fix history. And Stalin's Russia makes Hitler's Germany seem enlightened. Can humanity benefit from  such disgusting wisdom? <br />It may be wiser to give both Hitler and Stalin their  day in court.  They meant well but  were imprisoned by their  psychotic followers. The dead, though, will not arise.	2005-05-14
US	51791704	R12I1HOMYZLBPM	1932066098	40252951	Class and Schools: Using Social, Economic, and Educational Reform to Close the Black-White Achievement Gap	Books	2	8	47	N	N	ASK A SILLY QUESTION ...	Richard Rothstein is no more qualified to advise on education than the new governor of California  (who is a body-builder).  The  objective of education is economic self-sufficiency.  Getting ahead in life requires connections, not \\"knowledge.\\"  American blacks are denied connections.  We all  know why and how.  The black-white gap which Rothstein writes about  is not  information but access.  <br /> <br /> Valuable  knowledge is learned on the job, not in school. Teachers do not control access, employers do.  Blacks who are told otherwise are being cheated.  <br /> <br /> Centuries ago schools were for the elite, whose privileged  positiion in life was predestined.  This was not changed by free public schools.  America's political leaders never learned this fundamental lesson.   US Grant  - who in fact  liberated blacks - imagined blacks would quickly join mainstream   America.  KKK put an end to that dream.  Just saying again and again that there is a gap does not  acknowledge the reality.  Ask a bona fide teacher. <br /> <br />When black youth knows  schooling will be rewarded, education will command respect. <br /> <br />Wallace F. Smith,  Walnut Creek, CA	2005-03-03
US	51791704	R1FP4LRYE7CTY1	0375415467	801888719	DNA: The Secret of Life	Books	5	6	28	N	N	UNTEACHABLETRUTH	Oakland schoolchildren can have their DNA tested. They are pleased at the surprising news abour \\"race.\\" Every human being can be traced to Africa; there never was a master race, a slave race or a foreign race. No more name-calling. No more excuses. The pill may be a little bitter, but science has made humanity better, and equal.<br />Here is a textboook  which every child - on earth - should read. But where do we find  teachers?<br />DNA is fascinating. John Kerry's prominent jaw  is a genetic trait.; he's not an  alien but a fellow African. An ancestor  way back had a mutated gene, that's all.  I inherited my dad's bushy eyebrows. If you have freckles - well?<br />Charlize Theron might have 100% perfect genes, but genes aren't everything. She and her mother  speak a German dialect which is not genetic.  Watson's book mistakenly implies DNA explains languages. The ability to speak is genetic ,  but thousands of separate languages evolved by usage; a prominent  linguist  suggests they all came from a common ancestral  language. Out of Africa.<br />Another mistake in Watson's book is asserting we will never  know why humans created \\"culture.\\"  He's not an economist. I would love to explain how foraging tribes  got into the art  business, but Melinda Gates scoffs at my funding application. Microsoft, mysteriously,  owns a chunk of the DNA action.<br />The fundamental  problem  with  this astounding book is that Watson and other DNA scientists cannot shake off the \\"Hitler problem\\"  - extermination of genetically \\"inferior\\" people. Eugenics was a moronic American movement which led to vast horror - the Holocaust. Warson should be able to get his science off that hook, but doesn't.<br />Can any teacher use this textbook without preaching eugenics?	2004-02-21
US	51791704	R2PEEVMQRRPRQJ	0684862190	628491114	The Soul of Capitalism: Opening Paths to a Moral Economy	Books	1	18	65	N	N	JUNK LAW	An intelligent citizen knows that DAS KAPITAL - which Karl Marx  denounced - was actually the CORPORATION - which holds humanity in chains.  Marx  expected  a violent  revolution would  outlaw the corporation  (capitalism) and  restore mankind's liberty. But  Marx had doubts - democratic government might be seduced and make a mess of  socialism.<br />Contemporary Otto Bismarck  was far wiser.  He knew Marx was right,  but Bismarck outlawed socialism  and attempted to  pre-empt revolution by &quot;liberal&quot; reforms - revolution from above.  Otto wanted to be a benevolent despot. The grumpy Kaiser fired Bismarck, just in time for the bloodbath of World War I  etc.<br />The corporation gathered strength.  In 1886 the US transferred all the rights and protections of citizens to corporations  in PLESSY  v. FERGUSON.  From that moment  every member of Congress became the willing servant of  corporations.  Don't  waste your time writing your  Senator or Congressperson.  Kindly Alan Cranston, as  nice a Senator as ever orated,  gave his soul to protect Lincoln  S&amp;L  (Charles Keating et al)  from doing time for stealing the savings of  pathetic widows who thought  Cranson was supposed to represent THEM !<br />Ivan Boesky won the hearts and minds of Berkely MBA's  by encouraging soulless GREED.  Pity the California taxapayesr who still pay lavishly for that swill..<br />Greider  rambles on about  corporations becoming moral - preserving the environment  by not setting one worker against another . As in Dicken's tear-jerker CHRISTMAS CAROL.  Seeing the error of our ways.	2004-01-31
US	51791704	R28AXROWBDEGTL	0967967503	951902161	The Trivium: The Liberal Arts of Logic, Grammar, and Rhetoric	Books	3	35	179	N	N	VATICAN ENGLISH	You need a spell-checker if you write.  To put  hyphens where they belong you can buy the NEW YORK TIMES  MANUAL OF STYLE. To avoid mistakes in logic  see Sister Miriam. Her book is an encyclopedia of fallacies, logical blunders. <br />From the blurbs you may surmise that this is official &quot;Christian&quot; English.  A timeless text. One basic refrence is Thrax (166 BC); another is Porphry, who died in 305 AD. The good Sister - who went to her reward in  1982 - informs about Latin absolutes - unfortunately rare these days, but we ought to recognize them. And Greek lLITOTES  such as &quot;She is not unaware of her beauty..&quot; Magic grammar !<br />This is a difficult read; ringing  changes on logical fallacies seems endless.  What is a &quot;second intention?&quot; An &quot;enthymeme?&quot; Venn diagrams - the author calls them &quot;Euler circles&quot; - help a bit. But it seems almost anything a person may say is foolish and illogical; which must go double for lawyers and judges. That should be humbling, in case you ever need to humiliate a judge. Pull out a slip of paper with &quot;Glocenian sorites&quot; written on iit.<br />The ablative absolute, in case you're wondering, goes like this: With Caesar  away,  Senators conspired to  murder hm.  That's lively writing, isn't it?	2003-08-28
US	51791704	RJD65QT9ZSPRI	0500510776	598112859	The Man Who Deciphered Linear B: The Story of Michael Ventris	Books	3	1	25	N	N	None is so blind ...	Ancient Egyptians  were not secretive. They carved their story in stone,  using a sylllabary because the alphabet hadn't been invented,  A syllabary is a set of symbols for  each of the numerous sylllables; Japanese and Koreans today write mainly in syllabaries; for example, Japanese has one symbol for &quot;KA,&quot; a different symbol for &quot;NA&quot; and another for &quot;DA.&quot; There are 50-some in Japanese, which is more than the 26 letters we find it  convenient to read. Syllabaries are basically phonetic; Egypt's ancient writing system  was  forgetten for centuries, until a clever Frenchman realized that it was not picture-writing. He discovered the symbols for &quot;CLE&quot; &quot;O&quot; &quot;PA&quot; and &quot;TRA&quot; - and voila, the past came alive!<br />Ventris realized that  &quot;secret&quot; writing found in ancient Crete was actually Greek, using a forgotten sylllabary. Sadly,  academic blindness (jealousy) darkened his short life. He wanted to be an architect.	2003-06-29
US	51791704	R3VUNCEFLVQTJ7	067974245X	600963904	Me (Random House Large Print)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Not an act!	Katharine Hepburn has three important things to say. Growing old makes your mind sharper. The author of this exciting autobiography   was born in 1909, remains vital and hasn't forgotten a thing. Putting mature people down is stupid.<br />She learned how to make Hollywood sit up and say uncle. Her business IQ is out of this world, at least out of that world. A fabulous judge of people, including herself, and a true but cautious friend.<br />Howard Hughes was a decent, sane man. Very intelligent and strong-willed. Being infatuated with Katharine Hepburn ennobled Hughes, and the world has cruelly misjudged him. This book strengthens my belief that Hughes was the victim of  slow-acting poison. Would make a good movie.	2003-06-29
US	51791704	R3926RIA6DZHBA	067974245X	600963904	Me (Random House Large Print)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Not an act!	Katharine Hepburn has three important things to say. Growing old makes your mind sharper. The author of this exciting autobiography   was born in 1909, remains vital and hasn't forgotten a thing. Putting mature people down is stupid.<br />She learned how to make Hollywood sit up and say uncle. Her business IQ is out of this world, at least out of that world. A fabulous judge of people, including herself, and a true but cautious friend.<br />Howard Hughes was a decent, sane man. Very intelligent and strong-willed. Being infatuated with Katharine Hepburn ennobled Hughes, and the world has cruelly misjudged him. This book strengthens my belief that Hughes was the victim of  slow-acting poison. Would make a good movie.	2003-06-29
US	51791704	R3P3ABUAIODXWS	B00005WD3T	108597095	Man's struggle for shelter in an urbanizing world	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What every wonk should know	In a locked cage in New York I saw a heap of Charlie Abrams' reports. Abrams  was the UN's urban trouble-shooter. If there was an outcry about slums, squalor and squatting in Zamistan, or anywhere,  Charlie was hired to write a report. He found that the problems were caused by corrupt officials. Those officials lived the good life in New York as UN delegates, who ordered the Secretary General to make sure Abrams' report was never read, especially by journalists. wonks or students. Charlie was a liberal academic who realized the world wanted reports about problems, not solutions. He had a large team, and he owned the urban trouble-shooting profession. World-wide. When California Goveror Pat  Brown decided that housing problems in California needed looking-into he hired Chalie Abrams of New York - who else? Actually, the job was farmed out.  Charlie blew off a little steam by  writng a sort of textbook - which apparently was never reviewed.	2003-06-29
US	51791704	RZVR4915XZ8SL	0815702221	632916774	Japan's Policy Trap: Dollars, Deflation, and the Crisis of Japanese Finance	Books	3	2	21	N	N	America's Policy Trap	Japan has $400 billion in a New York bank. Whose problem is that? People like me wrote checks for Toyotas etc which never got to Japan. If your checkbook shows $400 oustanding is that good or bad? Brookings - a Washington think-tank hired two banker types to solve the puzzle; their book is a bomb. \\"The Yen is both too strong and too weak.\\" <br />Banking is not history. The $400 billion is a diplomatic problem - Japan and America have a joint history  that explains the $400 billion, where it came from and what inevitably must be done. America is the one in the trap.<br />To keep Japan from Indonesian oil we sank their fleet. We incinerated innocent city people to get unconditional surrender. We imposed  juvenile law, government and banking systems. We put their businessmen in prison and  their politicians on the CIA payroll.<br />As people, we get along very well. We we all eat raw fish now.<br />Japan's immediate big problem is China. China and Japan have tons of history; the bottom line is that they are emerging with comfortable global joint hegemony. That leaves America trapped out in the cold. If I were Mr. Bookings that's what I would hire brains to write about. (A chart shows Japanese land is wrorth  2,455 TRILLION Yen!  How do you pronounce that?  Within memory the US dollar has bought between 14.5 Yen and 360 Yen.)  <br />So what's a few New York bucks?	2003-06-26
US	51791704	R2ERJALTT8D7BN	0761123849	696216471	In Code: A Mathematical Journey	Books	5	0	18	N	N	Calls FBI's Bluff	&quot;Doing math&quot; means reducing the form of a system. The Flannerys  reveal  public key encryption for what it is - an incompetent con job at best or parahoid  showing - off.  The &quot;intelligence community&quot; has conned politicians, for fat paychecks and deep, adoring bows. Nobody in his right mind needs public keys. What the world needs is Sarah Flannery and her dad, because this delightful book is just the beginning. I think it's an Irish saying that  &quot;If you understand the question you want to ask, why then you already know the answer.&quot; Sarah finds questions.<BR>You need to read about the blackboard on the kitchen table. Do puzzles. Think things through.<BR>Comic page puzzles are, rightly, the province of senior citizens; keeping your mind alive is job # one.<BR>The lesson in code-breaking is not mathematics at all.  The plain message of Canaris vs. Turing is that  people running the world are stupid bigots. When you get down to it.	2002-01-31
US	51791704	R30BM6HKAPDJXX	1842120514	975254288	Spandau: The Secret Diaries	Books	5	5	16	N	N	SPRINGTIME FOR MEL BROOKS	A British guard admited to Speer that Spandau was  &quot;a great farce!&quot; Mel Brooks successfully represents the Nazi era as farce.  Was it?  &quot;Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it; &quot; (Santayana, 1905) so is  &quot;Springtime for Hitler&quot; good for humanity?  See how well you remember the past:<br />Hess was buried alive so he could not reveal that when he flew ro England the upper class English were determined to achieve Eurpean hegemony for themselves, not to achieve peace - and they were as anti-Semitic as any rabid Nazi.<br />Speer was shut away to prevent him from leading Germany's secovery, morally and economically. He pleaded guilty to crimes he did not actually commit - of course horrendous, cruel murders occurred but they were &quot;legal.&quot; Hitler's government  was as least as legitimate as that of G. W. Bush. There SHOULD have been a law - but there wasn't, and Nuremberg was a travesty.  What nation has ever obeyed its rules? In 1918 were Germans the victims of Allied Genocide?  Was Dresden an atrocity? Did France murder German POW's?<br />Germany today has European hegemony - peacefully achieved and globally welcomed. Hitler's ignorant and gruesome efforts to achieve it were just sickening waste.<br />Under Nazis, Indonesians were liberated from history's most despotic and depraved colonial rule - soon reimposed by the US. Nuremberg judges hanged the liberator - because of Anne Frank? Indonesia was able to provide all the oil Hitler needed.<br />Did the U-boot admiral  get his crews from concentratrion camps? Is that why he did ten years hard time?<br />Was Hitler's &quot;Youth Minister&quot; locked away in Spandau because he had told Hitler to leave the Jews alone?<br />In the spirit of Santayana I believe Mel Brooks is more useful  than the Nuremburg farce - and what went before and came after. <br />An anecdorte: The guards at Spandau tormented prisoners with &quot;good cop - bad cop games&quot; - controlling access to recorded music, for example. But Speer got a smuggled transister radio, pulled up his blanket to cover the earplug and dozed off enoying illegal  symphonies. The radio was not manufactured by Speer's Third Reich.	2001-08-03
US	51791704	R342HEKBCPOIEK	0195148274	374461801	Supreme Injustice: How the High Court Hijacked Election 2000	Books	4	4	25	N	N	Being Supreme	&quot;Law.&quot; &quot;logic&quot; and &quot;religion&quot; have the same root - submission; the late Joseph Campbell made it beautifully clear, but you could  look it up. In this treatise Dershowitz first  wrestles with but ultimately submits to the will of US Supreme Court justices in the matter of an unelected President. That's cowardly, and he fails to address the roots of our legal system. <br />Universally, religion is dogrmatic - orders come from God through interpreters. These orders are not proved; disputing them  is blasphemy.  (Jesus was executed for blasphemy.)  The will of God is announed, ad hoc, by self-annointed priests, rabbis, muftis or what-have-you. The US Supreme Court is a religious institution. Our Constitution forbids CONGRESS from running a religion, leaving the field open for lawyers. We should all  know about that but we don't<br />Madison et al  were not atheists - more  like Protestants. God had to be arbiter of their system, and it appears they chose the model of Judaism. The Talmud provides for resolving disputes. But Judaism is tribal and arcane. The model  we actually have is very close to Islam - universal and open. Its judgments - &quot;fatwa&quot; - are  decided by  (sometimes a concensus of)  &quot;mufti&quot; who communicate with God.  (I'm not recommending this.)<br />The Supreme Court is not bound by logic; Kurt Goedel  convinced academia that there is no &quot;true&quot; system of axioms - arbitrary assumptions underlie science. And law.  Dershowitz  shows that the justices ignored their own statements and avowed principles, but who says they can't?  Alan's noble indignation turns to dust.  His Beatrice  is a tramp.<br />To claim that the Surpreme Court's virginity can be restored is the kind of thing a much less honest lawyer would say. The unavoidable implication of this treatise is that the theological majesty of the Court must be ripped asunder. Democratically, let's hope. (Remember Vox Populi?)	2001-06-20
US	51791704	RUP6TTSDH0O20	0895262371	905529053	Absolute Power: The Legacy of Corruption in the Clinton-Reno Justice Department	Books	3	4	21	N	N	Human Sacrifice	Burning children alive at Waco fulfilled a Biblical prophesy, it seems. Just the beginning. Janet Reno and her FBI were  senseless  tools of destiny. The FBI went on to poison its own case against the Oklahoma City retribution,  thus writing the script for  blowing away ever more children. This is an interesting book - Chapter One, anyway; how many lawyer-journalists read the Bible?<br />The rest of David Limbaugh's book is stale and intellectually insulting. Who cares if  Mrs. Clinton fired some clerks? Whose idea was it to sneak a hooker into the White House and then bug all the phones?  Wasn't that  a scheme for  cutting the capital gains tax and ripping off  Alaska? Limbaugh credits Hillary for the strategy to defeat  Bill's impeachment.<br />A fourth of this book addresses Chinese espionage,  without mentioning the Department of Energy,  whose contractors did the  job and brought home the money. Limbaugh recommends  instead  a recent book by Gertz, which he seems not to have read himself. Perhaps the details  would detract from  Limbaugh's case against Janet Reno, the scary lady who now  controls (in perpetuity)  her hapless successor by virtue of having FBI head Freeh tap nominee Ashcroft's phone. (Then Freeh was  bound and gagged.)<br />&quot;So much for the rule of law&quot; Limbaugh decides early on  (p. 25).	2001-06-06
US	51791704	R3EJQGSGOEN76D	0812932153	277188955	Sale of the Century: Russia's Wild Ride from Communism to Capitalism	Books	3	5	20	N	N	DID CLINTON AND GORE LOSE RUSSIA?	Privatization reduced the Russian economy to the size of Belgium, brought life expectancy below third-world levels, ruined the monetary and financial systems with hyper-inflation, created massive unemployment, poverty and starvation and put most of the econmy - Russia has vast natural resources and well-educated people - into the hands of a few  utterly corrupt and cruellly criminal &quot;oligarchs.&quot; An unprecedented catastrophe for the world, not just for Russians. Whose fault was this?<br />Two years ago an American professor, Janine Wedel, published COLLISION AND COLLUSION, which identified a crew of Harvard advisors as the culprits. They were given extraordinary powers and resources by President Clinton and mentored by Vice-President Gore.  &quot;Ill-conceived&quot; is far too kind a description of what t hey did. They created the arguably most currupt society in world history; &quot;Mafia&quot; is the curse today of Eastern Europe - referring to the awful talons of Russian thugs. Were the Harvard guys corrupt? That may be looked into. Did Clinton and Gore do this intentially, to take a piece of the action?  Maybe.<br />Canadian journalist Chrstia Freeland's  new book puts a different spin on the  same facts.  It's very thinly diguised  &quot;damage control&quot; for Clinton et al. Warding off  criminal prosection, it appears. Freeland doesn't address the roles of Clinon, Gore, or Harvard and its powerful allies in the US Treasury and State Departments. Her answer to the whodunnit question is just a quote from a local policenman &quot;Russians steal.&quot; <br />Freeland's chattey book is a set of TV talk-show type interviews with several main &quot;oligarchs&quot; - we used to call them &quot;Dons&quot; or &quot;Godfathers.&quot; A little too breezy for explaining the nitty-gritty like &quot;loans for vouchers.&quot; Intellectually, Freeland comes across seriously inferior to Wedel - whom she pointedly ignores though they were talking to the same people atthe same time, apparently.  Wedel''s well-received book is much more useful, but Freeland's agenda is, I think, very important. Why would a slavic experrt from Canada and Britain want to cover up for Clinton and Gore? At this time? Is someone thinking of Presidential pardons?	2000-10-23
US	51791704	R8XRDILJ3F9W4	0465016146	406165084	The Mystery Of Capital Why Capitalism Succeeds In The West And Fails Everywhere Else	Books	3	13	27	N	N	GOLD IN THE STREETS	The third world is poor, in spite of abundant real resources and financial capital , because clear title to new capital - houses, factories etc.  cannot be obtained as readily as in  the US and similar first-world nations. De Soto advocates improvement in legal systems; he has written previously on this subjecty and leads a research institute in Peru.  This book is both useful and inadequate. The trouble is real but the remedy is not a mere wave of  the hand.<br />Cadastral systems exist in every society - to determine property rights and facilitate investment.  But they  collapse when colonial rule is swept away, when serfdom is abolished or  when a society is vanquished.  New technology crushes old wealth - pollution, transportation and communications ( e.g. Napster),  De Soto's perspective is surprisingly limited. (He seems to misunderstand the word &quot;fungible;&quot; &quot;real&quot; property is non-fungible  by definition.) There are many important differences between real assets and financial assets.<br />My impression is that de Soto underestimates the diffiulty of  establishing  an efficient system of property registration and transfer. The rights of occupants, investors, creditors, heirs and neighbors  need to be clear and assignable. This is a very complex package, enlessly contentious even in so &quot;orderly&quot; a society as the US. And every society has  its special blend of  rules that are religious and traditional, so for what de Soto visualizes &quot;one size does not fit all.&quot;<br />Worse - the chaos he complains of serves some people very well, not least  the legal profession. Indeed, it is reasonable to think the disorder is by design. But De Soto is right - the mess should be cleared away to let human beings work in harmony to build the life that is possible, promising and just.<br />Just don't hire lawyers to write the rules.	2000-10-23
US	51791704	R2A36PEDBRYLZ8	0691010161	229402294	Law's Order: What Economics Has to Do with Law and Why It Matters.	Books	2	6	94	N	N	MONEY CHANGERS STRIKE BACK!	Adam Smith argued persuasively that government should not tell businessmen what to do. (that's now called &quot;litigation support&quot;)  He claimed that would be &quot;efficient.&quot;  For two centuries his scenario played out and there were plenty of complaints - pollution, destruction of  resources, peonage,  unemployment,  prodigious waste ... which came to be known as &quot;externalities&quot; and &quot;market failure.&quot; So Adam was a false prophet? <br />Not at all! proclaim new economists, led by Ronald Coase. Market failures only prove that non-economists prevent the market from  working. Laws - property, contract etc. - are inefficient and must be made into the handmaidens of commerce (i.e. profit). The basic example -old  spark-emitting locomotive set wheat fields on fire. Coase people order the railroad to negotiate with farmers and  pay them to switch to non-flammable crops. In reality, the railroad owned the judges and legislators, and if farmers grumbled they found their skulls smashed by Pinkertons. Coase people laugh it off.<br />&quot;Efficient&quot; solutions for pollution involve locating hazards so that  people of little economic value get sick or die - as in Bhopal. Tobacco damage awards go almosty entirely to lawyers. The S&amp;L industry ripped off the US taxpayer to the tune of perhaps half a trillion dollars - without breaking any laws because first they got control,of the regulators and changed the rules. If you make the laws you never have to break any. No economist can solve this problem.<br />Only an authoritarian personality would announce that law is the servant of business. America's legal system is arguably the most complex and unintelligible in the world, and chattering about  &quot;efficiency&quot; doesn't make it more fair or less corrupt. David Friedman is either a venal charlatan or unblievably naive. Here is just one bald assertion - &quot;Competition should not be, and is not, a tort.&quot; Well!  &quot;Define competition&quot; as the saying goes. A more helpful  generalization is that  our legal  system rests on the forceful statute of limitations and on the dictum that nothing is illegal unless poor people start to enjoy it. Don't let pesky money-changers mess with your head.	2000-10-19
US	51791704	R22EXUOINKDHV6	1893554082	708955678	Hegemon: China's Plan to Dominate Asia and the World	Books	4	25	41	N	N	SO CHINA BLACKMAILED  U.S.?	Cryptically, Mosher's message is revealed about  two-thirds into the book. It appears to be - President Jiang Zemin tricked Clinton into accepting a huge, covert campaign contribution in exchange for second -hand nuclear research information. When Clinton visited Jiang Bill found himself forced to renounce Taiwan's independence and withdraw moral support for the Tienanmen students. This &quot;went down&quot; in June, 1998.  (By implication Wen Ho Lee was selected to take the fall - confess under torture - though he never sw the money. The money was laundered by the University of California, which manages nuclear rearch facilities under an audit-proof contract,)<br />China's 2,000 year-old ART OF WAR preaches duplicity and espionage as means to &quot;win without fighting&quot;,  by exploiting flaws in the opponent's character. Mosher is certainly no fan pf Clinton, but the argument sort of hangs together. He argues that Taiwan is essential to Americn defense - at least as a shining example to mainland  Chinese of democracy-cum-capitalism. But he also indicates that China can destroy any UC fleet in Taiwan                  waters. <br />Mosher  explains  that for two millenia China has been a  police state with irrational  expanionist aims. Irrational because a police state prevents economic evolution; spies, though greatly honored failed to learn about steam engines, imperialism and Adam Smith etc. He is convinced that China under Jiang Zemin now sees global domination - hegemony - within his grasp. If nobody learns from Clinton's blunder then Jiang will be on a roll. Mosher's alarm may be too lacking in subtlety.	2000-10-11
US	51791704	R3LLQQ06XH9WIX	0385492936	214439381	The Book of Honor: Covert Lives & Classified Deaths at the CIA	Books	4	3	12	N	N	READ MY SLIPS	Seventy-one CIA employees have given their lives; more than half were robbed of identity and recognition. The book is a collection of cover stories intended to conceal criminal acts and top-level blunders. How did this book get publshed? America's intelligence agencies now boast of  hacking into all phone and e-mial communications world-wide; they can quash any expose. A reader has to suppose that one or more CIA chiefs wanted this book to be read. Why? George Bush Sr. headed the agency for a time; there's a thought.<br />Tragic biographies suggest these dead died in vain, some at least in psychotic delusion. Their survivors were cruelly tormented into silence. Cynical condolence letters fill many pages. Apparently, nothing the CIA attempted went right  - that's an impression, anyway.  <br />Spy stories can be entertaining (e.g. James Bond).  Or they can be political disinformation (the TV series on Sydney Reilly, for example). Usually  the excuse for ugly real-world spying and spy-catching is war. But here is evidence that addicted sneaks invent wars and fabricate dangers to indulge in barbarism. Neither &quot;good Germans&quot; nor &quot;good Americans&quot; have stood up to palpable paranoia. Must we lose a war to regain our honor?	2000-09-22
US	51791704	R185STGLV1FHVK	0671042815	866458955	Dream Catcher: A Memoir	Books	5	7	12	N	N	&quot;POP&quot; PSYCHOLOGY ...	... is the best kind. At age 25 J. D, Salinger published CATCHER IN THE  RYE, which quickly became very popular and was banned, and he basically  went into hiding. His daughter's very literate book explains why, as well  as anyone can (Salinger is still alive at 80); She deserves our thanks; we  should understand the power a young noverlist can achieve and the purpose  behind it; I'll tell you why.<br />Kurt Vonnegut's SLAUGHERHOUSE FIVE became a  best-seller and has been banned; book-burning is alive and well.  SLAUGHTERHOUS  arose from the atrocity of Dresden. CATCHER originated in  Nazi atrocities which young, sensitve Salinger dealt with - as a  Jewish-American GI. His daughter lets us know that; I think she wants us to  see her anti-sicial father in that light. Bless her.<br />Both Salinger and  Vonnegut tried to resolve the horrors they saw - in part by erotic  fantasies. Salinger, it seems, is still at it, hoping to use his literary  genius to exorcise the unspeakable - without rekindling the flames. Isn't  that a nice theme for &quot;English Lit?&quot; Literature is just good  autobiography - there! I said it. Even science - &quot;Relativity&quot; was  a flash in the pan but Einstein's mind is part of our human heritiage. Read  for truth!<br />In 'TIS schoolteacher Frank McCourt tells about dropping  VANITY FAIR in favor of CATCHER IN THE RYE - to the delight of students;  but the principal walked in and confiscated Salinger. That speaks volumes -  pardon the pun - about American schools. (In my humble opinion CATCHER was  banned because it ridicules teachers.)	2000-09-11
US	51791704	R1LPA8DDYB2H5M	0871137658	553666976	In the Fall	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Not skin but slavery	Suppose Scarlett Ohara was a runaway slave, whose beautiful mother had been raped by the man who owned them, who saved a wounded boy from Vermont and then walked  there together as his wife. Almost home a neighbor woman  hanging clothes to dry in the sun sees the boy and the Negress and the  young man hears &quot;the soft spatter of clothespins falling in the grass  behind him.&quot;<br />Leah became kin - not without  hurt and always knowing  she must set right what she ran from.  That takes her  life, but  troubled,  sadly beautiful daughters unknowingly follow the path to - let's call it  &quot;redemption&quot; A very twisted path it may seem, but put me in mind  of a Moebius strip - gets you on the other side and  then back to the  beginning. No maps required.<br />A good writer develops a &quot;voice.&quot;  This story is in dialect, which evolves imperceptibly from  Carolina to the  Canadian border,  from the era of Lincon to that of Coolidge. A good story  should resolve something; all I'll tell you is that meanness and savagery   are finally exorcised by a creature that isn't even human. (OK, a puppy  dog.) This level of  art requires a message, especially because there is  trouble about race. And the message is that Americ's race problem is not  skin color but slavery.<br />A flaw? Jeffrey Lent  admires and honors  womenkind - unreservedly. If we have a sex problem in our country it is not  about anatomy but respect. I'm with Jeffrey on that!	2000-05-22
US	51791704	R7G3BOLNV33J6	0465051952	343903714	Power And Prosperity: Outgrowing Communist And Capitalist Dictatorships	Books	3	15	56	N	N	compassionate sadist	Russia's switch to a market economy, while catastrophic for Russians - discredits American economists who promoted and ran it. Mancur Olson decided to blame government - not for meddlesome intervention (i.e.  socialism)  but for  failing to keep predators from  messing up. The late  professor and his adherents think market economics requires very specific -  though contradictory - central authority. Too late, he discovered that what   unenlightened gangsters should have done - when we gave them most of  Russia's business assets - was to enforce property rights and prevent  theft.<br />Enlightenment means following the very dim precepts of Coase - an  inarticulate economist who decided polluters should compensate their  victims and assumed they would  voluntarily do so. Don't waste time looking  into that.<br />The fundamental problem posed by economists of practically all  stripes is a simplistic  view of economics. They  dote on profit without  seeing that it involves resources and that resources of  several different  kinds must be combined in particular ways. Resources - naturall (raw  materials), human (education), tangible (plants, roads ) and intangible  (property titles) do not all emerge spontaneously but have to be found  and/or cultivated. Markets don't do that.  We don't know what capital  accounting is.<br />Instead Olson recmmends power be entrusted to ruthless  profit-maximizers who - in their own interest, Olson believed - will be   far-seeing and compassionate. Hmmm.	2000-04-15
US	51791704	R3J33IIOHBNFDQ	0140437010	315326841	Personal Memoirs (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	American peace process	Grant  thought the war with Mexico was deceitful aggression, but he served America honorably. With Sherman's help he came to understand what the Civil war was about and how it had to be conducted - with unflinching brutality.  Grant, a deeply humble and honest person, was intellectually superior to  Lincoln. He and Sherman stand head and shoulders above Clausewitz. Grant   wanted freed blacks to become dignified, self-supporting citizens and he  set in motion a successful program to accomplish that. His compassionate  wisdom was ignored and we are still a divided, rancorous and unjust nation  as a result.<br />Other nations later paid a terrible price for ignoring  Grant's dogged defense of the Union; at Appomatox Lee had almost nothing to  surrender since most southern soldiers had deserted. That's what war had  become - not tactical brilliance but grinding down the opponents' will.  Carnage. Petersburg  pointed the way to the stalemate on the Marne;  Shiloh  reads like the Battle of the Bulge. If European leaders had learned from  Grant there would be no disastrous Versailles to reinvigorate German  will.<br />Grant's personal reflections should be the basic American  schoolbook. Well, maybe the maps could be improved. And the diary of  General Pemberton's lady companion might be overlooked.	2000-01-07
US	51791704	R1BZZ6JVBU9N3X	0375501320	973098536	The Greedy Hand: How Taxes Drive Americans Crazy and What to Do About It	Books	2	2	28	N	N	Wall Street's idea of tax reform?	Why would the Wall Street Journal  want us to read IRS horror stories?  Mixed in with sales and property tax gripes?  How many Wall Streeters bother with their own taxes? And isn't it all old hat? - nanny taxes,  estate taxes,  marriage taxes, Social Security jitters?  Lament about home  mortgage interest is uninformed - the issue is imputed income.<br />There are  numerous significant omissions: reverse mortgage and inflation bond  absurdities,  tax incidence (e.g. do consumers pay business payroll  taxes?),  rationale for tax shelter , tax bonanzas (George's single tax,  oil windfalls etc.),  tax surplus and the debt etc. America is out of step  on VAT. Why not tax unrealized income and/or net worth? Worth a little  discussion.<br />Wall Street has reasons to dislike the greatest tax-gather of  all - inflation; readers should know that. And though the Journal is trying  to catch up with the computer age, simulation would avoid tax-design  boo-boos and erase taxpayers' anxiety.  An IRS approved  Turbo Tax would do  wonders.  Ask any 12-year old.	2000-01-06
US	51791704	R3O349KL1SR65X	0684853396	977410269	Day of Deceit: The Truth About FDR and Pearl Harbor	Books	5	25	41	N	N	FDR's Immaculate Deception	Stinnett's book is a collection of documents showing that a) FDR goaded Japan into attacking theUS, at the urging of Winston Churchill - the purpose being to rescue the British navy and b) FDR was informed of the  progress of the Japanese strike force toward Pearl Harbor; he kept this  (decoded intercept) information from the US commanders there, so the  resulting huge loss of American lives would persuade this country to wage  savage wars in Europe as well as the Pacific. It was a small price to pay  for unifying the country, according to a naval intelligence officer. The  business about an unprovoked and dastardly attack was a Big  Lie.<br />Naturally, people taken in by that deception dislike this book. One  argument is that if the crime had been connected the criminal would have  destroyed the evidence; that defense comes from watching TV. A prominent  reaction is that America is noble and truthful  and would never do anything  so base. However ...<br />U. S. Grant, a hero of the War With Mexico,  denounced the US for tricking Mexico into firing the first shot, giving  greedy annexationists an excuse for grabbing half the country. Farmers at  Lexington made sure the redcoats fired at them. Putting a chip on your  shoulder is a time-honored, though juvenile, tactic; so why are Americans  unwilling to admit deceiving themselves and their  children? And being  deceived by others; Woodrow Wilson was conned into making war on Russians  to restore serfdom - setting off decades of left and right terror across  Europe. (So who conned Wilson?)<br />Was our role in WWII morally correct? We  did not defend Poland. We restored debauched French control over Indochina  and Dutch depravity in Indonesia. At terrible human cost we gave  Guadalcanal back to English aggressors. And what did we win? Japan today  has the lion's share of the world's financial reserves and controls the  Indonesian oil  which FDR did so much to keep away from Japan. Eisenhower's  mission in Europe didnot include any humanitarian work or political  freedom once a surrender was signed. There was no objective except winning  - like in football. So what was all that sadistic mayhem about?<br />America's  century has ended, but there is a reason to be honest about what we did.  Now  the people of China will lead the world and we owe it to them - and  civilization - to renounce deceit.	1999-12-29
US	51791704	R12VH49SC17HQA	0805057560	741224466	The Predictors: How a Band of Maverick Physicists Used Chaos Theory to Trade Their Way to a Fortune on Wall Street	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Sucker Bet	&quot;Predict&quot; has two meanings - assert something about the future,  like &quot;water will boil,&quot; or explain something that already happened, like &quot;when the temperature reached 100 C the water's state  changed. Stockbrokers make a living with the first meaningand hope nobody  wants an explanation. Scientists  modestly hedge and confine their  recollections (altitude affected water's bolng point). Or at least they are  supposed to. This book is not science.<br />But - and that's how  some people  sell books, consulting services, tax advice and horoscopes - less  analytical people think a scientific term  means that God and Mother Nature  guarantee what  an author says. &quot;Chaos&quot; has become a scientific  term.  This book  suggests - with appropriate but easily overlooked modesty   - that new ,new number-crunching tells you wich stocks are  winners.<br />Sober players should know that cards may be marked, roulette  wheels may be wired amd stock prices are readily manipulated. Chaos remains  a theory because truly &quot;random&quot;  numbers are  not what a computer  generates. Nor, I've heard, does God play dice. &quot;Tomorrow&quot; is the  hit song from &quot;Annie.&quot;<br />Don't anyone tell the Department of  Energy but a chapter in this book makes a big joke of security at Los  Alamos.	1999-12-28
US	51791704	RMNEK7VR2VJ0L	0393048136	217254911	The New New Thing : A Silicon Valley Story	Books	3	4	5	N	N	...in which your other leg is pulled.	LIAR'S POKER explored Wall Street's  rip-off of S&amp;L's and bond investors by means of a flash-in-the-pan computer algorithm which obscurely manipulates the value of financial assets. MBA's got obscenely rich doing  funny (but kind of naughty) things. Taxpayers paid. Author Lewis moved on.  THE NEW NEW THING is the same plot  on an updated set - technology  is  being misrepresented so less than admirable types can vie for biggest  billionaire. The orgy is a boat trip - that's new.<br />I keep thinking of  &quot;chutzpah.&quot; Silicon Valley relies on imported engineers whose  (overseas) education apparently avoided touchy subjects like securities  fraud (&quot;blue sky&quot; IPO's), tax fraud (expensing development  costs), public utility regulation of natural monopolies,  the link between  inefficient , binary code and infinite PE's, how political wannabe's are  romanced into not rocking the boat  ... and the Dewey Decimal system  (search engine of America's scandalously underpaid  librarians). Silicon  Valley's  unthinkable wealth relies absolutely on its army of dim bulbs at  INS, IRS, DOJ, academia and, not least, Congress. Come to think of it,  &quot;chutzpah&quot; is not a crime, so I take that back. There are hints  that Lewis understands but thought better of  blurting out realities that  can well do much greater harm than mortgage derivatives inflict. Wet  blankets don't sell books like funny stories do. No predictions. Read for  laughs. Don't try these stunts at home.	1999-11-02
US	51791704	R3OKMBCIPJXTAX	0684848783	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Rotten teeth, rotten schools - telling it like 'Tis.	It is worth reading this book just to find out why a woman told teacher McCourt &quot;No kid o mine gonna be no yoot.&quot; (p. 318)  Things you don't want people to know about America let alone made so readable are  here. Without being convicted of any crime children are  sentenced to   years of feckless cruelty ,  and the wardens  (teachers)  are demeaned .  English lit  is at the very best just dreary busy-work.  Enormous waste. We  should know already that Frank McCourt is clear, blunt , lively and yet  pleasant to be with. Here he presents the autobiography of a bad man, a  drunk, resenting his work, ignoring a good woman - but leaving out the part  about getting even. People who write about themselves  usually take the  opposite tack. So that's a great plus. And he leaves loose ends, that's  another. My hope is that every so-called educator in America will get the  beak , priceless message in Tis.	1999-10-19
US	51791704	R18WPTMG6YOLJX	0520083997	281066604	From the Ground Up: The Business of Building in the Age of Money	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Ideal case study for developers	My students - this was, for years, the best-liked textbook in Berkeley real estate courses - saw this well-written history of an actual commercial development as a sure-fire hit movie. We selected the cast - not too  difficult:   incompetent and corrupt contractors, sublimely ignorant city  officials, totally  dense bankers, a brilliant artist who got ripped off,   shady lawyers, venal professors - well, they lost forty million dollars or  so. Reporter Frantz covered the (subsiding) ground  with hearty humor but   without serious libel. The reader is supposed to do the numbers.	1999-08-23
US	51791704	R15OYWCZ2QYQPB	1893956016	968108995	The United States of America Versus Theodore John Kaczynski: Ethics, Power and the Invention of the Unabomber	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Publish or Perish	&quot;Chutzpah&quot; comes to mind - a lawyer makes up the facts. Mello claims privileged conversations with a man whom the US legal  system defied the Constitution to silence , but Mello himself  blots out  the most  elementary realities of the &quot;Unabomber&quot; story. When Kaczyinski  fled Berkeley the university was under the thumb of a rogue  cop who went  on the become US Attorney General; Niixon had signed an order suspending  civil rights in California and &quot;Operation Cable Splicer&quot; was  shooting up the University community. Corrupt corporate interests had  gained control of  at least one environmentally vital professional school.  Who would listen to alarms from this ataciturn, over-educated young math  professor? Now that's a story worth telling; I don't think Mello bothered  to find out what was going on those days in Berkeley.	1999-08-18
US	51791704	R1JQQV2CZGAVUC	0140275010	382334052	Cod: A Biography of the Fish that Changed the World	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Market economics caused an immense disaster.	Darwinian science declared that  cod - for centuries a basic global food source - could never become extinct.  But predictable and preventable market response made rather quick work of a once indispensable species.  Kurlansky's scrupulous and almost impassioned explanation should be  obligatory reading for citizens young and old, and certainly for teachers  and people aspiring to public office. Almost incidentally he rewrites the  history of the American revolution. I have to admit, though, that parts of  the account decreased my appetite for codfish cakes.	1999-07-19
US	51791704	R1CMZ9200X2UJY	0393046869	699211673	Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War II	Books	1	56	106	N	N	Tell it to the marines.	Dower must have gone to some other country. I served in Japan, did close -order drill on the Emperor's front lawn, learned a bit of the language, studied under the leading expert on Japanese history, spent a sabattical  year in Japan - and more - and I think Dower's picture is absurd and  harmful. I'm not alone; all the GI's I knew felt very much at home in  Japan. It's a great country - every outfit has its scoundrels. Japan is the  world's leading creditor; we are the greatest debtor. Japan's pre-war  economic aims have been achieved and surpassed.  It's hard to say what our  aims were, and the Occupation's floundering provides no clues. Dower's  ethnocentrism is embarrassing.	1999-07-04
US	51791704	R2MF905A0COR63	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Can't see the forest.	Keegan describes military events but confuses them with history.  Our century saw Germany achieve European hegemony - in spite of itself - while &quot;Great&quot; Britain self destructed and Russia blew its shot at  leadership. Moving pins around on maps is kind of fun, but it doesn't tell  humanity much about why tens of millions were very cruelly murdered and  unimagined wealth was simply blown up. Keegan is undoubtedly very well  informed, but his &quot;explanation&quot; of the 1914-18 war comes across  as rationalization - victor's history. Our world should have learned from  WWI and its aftermath that while soldiers &quot;do or die&quot; they do not  &quot;reason why.&quot; We need reasons, not battlefied monuments.	1999-07-04
US	51791704	R1L7ZN6V23FYZ4	0195125371	660174403	Hitler's Vienna: A Dictator's Apprenticeship	Books	5	8	10	N	N	History's Boris Karloff	Hitler's Europe was frightful and real. Was Hitler the incarnation of evil?  Hamann is trying to let us all know  that a desperate young man created a role for himself and then became its prisoner. The monster. A  monster is very powerful. There are lots of wanna-be's, and that's the real  trouble. Worse, lots of people try to create scary roles for themselves;   that's why this book is so valuable. It may set your teeth on edge to read  that as a boy Adolf Hitler was frail, gentle and had Jewish friends. He was  so poor he had to borrow shoes to go to a lecture about his fictional hero,  an American Indian. He was devoted to his mother - and she to him - and  they often went hungry. His way out was acting, which involved  self-consciously hypnotic  gestures and diction. And catch-phrases. Of  course that's not the image the world now has - the super-fiend born  directly from hell. But we would all be better off with the truth.	1999-07-04
US	51791704	RO7J2O4IY2BG7	046505711X	122798525	The Pity Of War	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Killing became an end in itself.	Ferguson's courageous history of  the first world war  explains  how  sadistic, relentless  killing  quickly became an end in itself. And WWI led directly to worse barbarity and terror, so that in 1999 the world faces  virtually the same problem in the Balkans which existed in 1914. In  explaing how the first great war came about Ferguson stands head and  shoulders above the &quot;victor's historians&quot; who fill the textbooks  and befuddle political leaders. He finds much to blame conservative British  leadership for. And nothing kind to say about America's role. Unfortunately  - and this is not Ferguson's fault - he cannot explain how the pointless  savagery could have been avoided or cut short.  Senseless murder may simply  be an instinct; if so, it's time for all of us to face up to that. Forget  heroics; war, like all murder, is failure. There are no &quot;good  wars.&quot; The value of Ferguson's effort cannot be overstated, but it is  only a beginning.	1999-06-26
US	51791704	RFC4E3JH1439M	0316782130	146686349	Skyscraper Dreams: The Great Real Estate Dynasties of New York	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Schachtman explains how the Dow Jones bubble will burst.	Never buy a building. That's the rule which allowed penniless refugee families to create the New York skyline over two centuries.  People with more money than sense should read Schactman's excellent history of making  and keeping  family wealth. The obvious message is that land currently not  in its &quot;highest and best use&quot; is the fundamental investment  vehicle. REIT's are vivid proof that the Wall Street mentality does not  comprehend the difference between real and financial assets. We will see a  switch from absurd PE's to neglected urban locations . Re-print this  important book!	1999-04-20
US	51791704	R2BDZ7441LM78X	0312212151	694554321	Collision and Collusion: The Strange Case of Western Age to Eastern Europe, 1990-1997	Books	5	3	7	N	N	American wonks are a global menace.	Chapter four in this astonishingly important  book describes  incompetence and corruption which devasted Russia when Washington gave Harvard University virtually dictatorial powers to &quot;reform&quot; Russia's  post-communist economic system. Not only was our ivory-tower privatization  a fiasco but we left a shameful legacy of hatred and distrust. Harvard made  Stalin look good.  As a US citizen I wish devoutly there were a way for us  to undo the insult and harm.  As a nation we chose to forget  what we  inflicted on the Russian people in 1918 - by brutal efforts to destroy  &quot;socialism&quot; which only pushed that reform into remorseless  paranoia and terror. Russians and &quot;socialists&quot; will never forget  it. In the  1990's we blundered again. The rest of this book is   anthropology,  which - as an economist - I found distinctly less  interesting. Maybe that's a fault in me. But for all our sakes I hope it  will not discourage people from getting the truth in chapter four.	1999-04-06
US	51791704	RMW9LO7RVI49R	0374270325	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	0	0	N	N	&quot;roman a clef&quot; - Tom Wolfe is &quot;Too White&quot; for example.	Having read many reviews I am alarmed that  Wolfe's point is being missed - unless someone shouts pretty loud the inevitable movie will be a farce. Tom Wolfe is apologizing for being Too White. Donald Trump is  a ludicrous  &quot;Cracker.&quot;  The trophy wives are the only strong human beings.  &quot;Stoicism&quot; means being born again and running away from problems  that really cannot be solved - the race mess in America. Let's see - is OJ  in there somewhere? If Wolfe is telling America to face the reality of  racism then this is a great piece of work. So what if the real estate thing  is illogical? Wolfe worked very hard at this ; he is trying to tell us  something. Agree?	1999-03-22
US	51791704	R3CDX0SRYX2V0I	0312212151	694554321	Collision and Collusion: The Strange Case of Western Age to Eastern Europe, 1990-1997	Books	5	2	3	N	N	will something be done?	It  seems this book is  a progress report.  It's great value is diminshed by two factors. 1)  shouldn't there be a Congrressional investigation at least?  Are the  Harvard  sophomores going to get away with  their  mischief? and 2)  Wedel needs a collaborator who knows  the difference  between trade and liquidity . Anthropologists, perhaps, cannot see the big  picture; wordiness spoils the effect of this  serious and important  study.   Needs  work, but deserves a prize.	1999-03-22
US	51791704	RYLPE15EB978	0374270325	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	0	0	N	N	fun but fatal inaccurracies concerning real estate workout	DCF means spreadsheet; it  was  invented for finding rate of return, not  value or net worth as suggested by the book - which I regard as a spoof, anyway and great fun. A competent MBA would realize that - of course that  leaves a lot of overpaid MBA's, which may be one of Wolfe's points. I  taught this subject at Berkeley for decades, know prominent people who fit  the main character very well and have had lots of students in workout and  vulture occupations. I'd be glad to hear  from anyone interrested in the  technical issues. There is a difference between bakruptcy and foreclosure,  for example. Will Tom Wolfe see these remarks? I would like to tell him how  valuable this book is as a text, because it dramatizes real world hubris -  which thrives!	1999-02-10
