US	51794962	R1JWG1EQXAHBP4	0761525580	298331485	The Seven Myths of Gun Control: Reclaiming the Truth About Guns, Crime, and the Second Amendment	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An outstanding argument for armed citizenry	I've long been an advocate of the Second Amendment and have digested lots of writing about it, and Poe's book is among the best I've read.  His arguments are grounded in common sense, and he presents plenty of evidence to support his claims.    My opening sentence's inclusion of the Second Amendment surely has a lot of anti-gun advocates interrupting with, \\"but the Second Amendment was about the militia, not the people.\\"  Poe sweeps that argument into the dust pan by examining the circumstances surrounding the creation of the Second Amendment, and also pointing out that a government hardly needs to stipulate the legality of arming its troops.  With the misinterpretation argument finished, the anti-gun advocate would switch tactics by saying that those were different times.  Poe shoots that down by showing plenty of instances around the world where disarmament proved catastrophic for the people, then talks about the Swiss system of armed citizenry that has served that country well.  Poe continues in this way to counter the anti-gun spin.      The seven myths addressed, Poe digs into issue of declining masculinity and its causes.  He also poses a few interesting questions about the psychology of some \\"poisoned crusader\\" anti-gun activists.    One issue Poe didn't directly address is what I call the pact of mutual weakness.  Some people distrust their neighbors and believe that keeping everybody in a position of equal strength, and keeping that level strength weak enough to be easily controlled by the government, is the best way to keep society in check.  But if you've read Poe's book, the response to that idea is obvious.  Criminals will always exist, and obligating people to exist in the naive hope that the constabulary will always be there for them is to relegate the society to sheep that, for the flock's (or maybe shepherd's) interests, must occasionally be sacrificed to the wolf.     You have a few choices.  You can read this book and learn about the argument forarmed citizenry, you can pretend the whole issue doesn't apply to you, or you can call Poe a monster for evening taking up the issue.  The first choice is the most responsible.  Taking the other two would just be cheating yourself.	2004-02-29
US	51794962	R3SPZY8QITA3FM	0060124490	570747717	Japan sinks	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Understanding Japan by destroying it.	It's a classic convention of literature - and perhaps life - that people reach their clearest insight only when death is at hand.  By creating a model of Japan's death, Komatsu deftly exposes the how the Japanese see themselves, how they believe the world sees them, and who they are.  As a foreigner in Japan for nine years who has read copiously on this country, this novel is among the most penetrating I've read.  For those who aren't interested in dissecting the Japanese, they'll still be thrilled by this compelling tale of an entire nation's doom.	2004-01-31
US	51794962	R286Z2C40XCK8M	4770018487	887520528	Straitjacket Society: An Insider's Irreverent View of Bureaucratic Japan	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A rare and excellent glimpse from an insider	The term insider might seem sensationalistic, but those who understand Japan know that uchi (in the group) and soto (outside the group) are major forces in the Japanese mind.  Airing the uchi's deficiencies to the outside simply isn't done.  For this reason, most foreigners in Japan are relegated to reading between the lines, overheard conversations, and puzzle-assembling to figure out what makes the Japanese tick.  It really is that tight, which makes Miyamoto's book such a goldmine.<br />During Japan's bubble years, we all heard the stories of carbon copy executives, death from overwork, and fathers who don't know their families.  This is Miyamoto's main concern: that Japan, despite its modern veneer and seemingly international flavor, is far behind other industrial nations in terms of lifestyle.  He uses his insight as a psychiatrist to show that avoidance of provoking envy, preservation of the status quo, and demonstrations of masochism are the linch pins that hold this seemingly impossible system together.<br />Readers in Japan will no doubt hear the ring of truth in Miyamoto's words.  Since I've been in Japan for nine years, I can no longer identify with how those without experience with Japanese culture will read this book.  To the latter group, I can only suggest that you read this book as a true, modern-day account of how a society can be pressed into psychological subjugation.  That's just one of the angles from which Straitjacket Society is a fascinating read.	2003-12-27
US	51794962	R3KUFTW16GPRAD	0895267454	376346755	Right from the Beginning	Books	5	24	28	N	Y	If only this man had been president	Pat Buchanan has been labeled everything from dangerous to nazi.  This book proves that he is just the opposite: a strongly principled man who wants what's best for his country.<br />Buchanan explains his conservative beliefs within the framework of growing up the son of a devout Catholic scrapper and the student of tough Jesuit priests.  Although he spent much of his childhood raising hell, his upbringing was about morals and care of the soul.  In Buchanan's time, care of the soul meant defending American freedom from the encroachment of Leninist communism.  He didn't hate the Russians, but the system of government that was devouring half the world's freedom.<br />To the left-leaning critic who is undoubtedly screaming, \\"what about America devouring the other half\\": you're preaching to the choir.  Buchanan has consistently asserted that we shouldn't be meddling in other countries' affairs.  He recalls traveling to Japan and concluding that we were wrong to indiscriminately A-bomb the populations of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  He goes on to say that our president prodded the Japanese into attacking Pearl Harbor so that he'd have an excuse to enter the war.  That's hardly the voice of an imperialistic interventionist.<br />Nor is Buchanan a cut-throat capitalist.  At the end of the book, he talks about an America of morals being infinitely more desireable than an America of laurel-resting decadence.  He observes that democracy is by itself an empty vessel that can be filled with evil intentions just as easily as it can with good intentions.  The moral fiber of our people, says Buchanan, is what ultimately defines us.  Compare our grandparents' generation to ours; Buchanan's point is painfully obvious.  To recapture our country, Buchanan insists we recapture education, freedom of religion (rather than tacitly mandated secularism or cowtowing agnosticism), and the Supreme Court.  No arguments from me.<br />Some people have speculated that Buchanan is a closet white supremacist, an accusation which this book shoots down.  Having grown up with two black maids, having recoiled at the treatment of a southern black man who couldn't enter a whites-only restaurant to mail a letter, and having a brother who speaks of dog-tagging an equal number of dead white and black Americans in Vietman, Buchanan clearly has no time for racial discrimination.  He writes about welfare depriving black Americans of their dignity, and even suggests that an ammendment prohibiting racial discrimination be added to the US Constitution.  <br />Other than the pleasure of glimpsing into the life of a man I greatly respect, I took from this book many lessons about where our new and supposedly more advanced society fails.  By deemphasizing personal responsibility and blaming our problems on society, we're creating a generation of excuse-makers and softies.  By acquiescing to anybody's ideas and summarily treating all ideas as equal, we replace values with anything-goes.  When people don't have something to believe in, they don't believe in nothing; they believe in anything.  There are many more nuggets in this book.	2003-10-12
US	51794962	R5TZE96MD57CN	188518395X	255439059	Shooting Pool: The People, the Passion, the Pulse of the Game	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Great survey of post-Color of Money pool in America	\\"To play billiards well,\\" quipped Charles Roupell, \\"is a sign of an ill-spent youth.\\"  That image of vice, hustling, and threat to the community used to be a large part of the average American's perception of pool.  Then in 1986, The Color of Money came along and revitalized the game and ushered in a new era.  It's this era, in all its impressiveness and diversity, that Shamos and Bennett survey.<br />Shamos is among pool's most accomplished historians, and his knowledge of the game shines brightly in this book.  He introduces us to a selection of people who have contributed immensely to the game, takes us on a tour of some of America's classiest and most unique pool and billiard rooms, outlines women's and men's professional pool, and closes with a look at the state of the pool industry. <br />The life of the book is Bennett's photography.  Bennett's lens never fails to bring a sense of animation to the stills and to put us in the moment.  Much like buying a better stereo and rediscovering your CDs, Bennett reintroduced me to the image of this game that I've played since childhood.	2003-08-19
US	51794962	RC52YOVMXNZC1	0786889187	124070427	Cadillac Jukebox (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Like a trip back to Louisiana.	I spent my early adolescent years in southeastern Louisiana and have a lot of fond memories of this uniquely charming piece of America.  Burke's Dave Robicheaux never fails to transport me back to the gumbo restaurant in a trailer, the trek through a Morgan City swamp that brought me awfully close to an alligator, and Pete Fountain's jazz club at the Hilton.  Simply put, Burke knows Louisiana and how to evoke it.<br />Cadillac Jukebox is overall a good read.  It's basically a tale of the dark motives that drive people across the line from good to bad.  Unfortunately, Burke let the story get too complicated.  I wish I had made a chart of the characters as I read the book, because keeping track of who's who got confusing.  The storyline also spreads out to the point that staying on top of it becomes a chore.  <br />I thought the story got formulaic at points.  The mythological symbolism in the fate of the husband-and-wife antagonists was over the top, like a classical bass drum roll at the end of a Warren Storm tune.  But Burke didn't miss a beat with his characters.  I was scared by Aaron Crown and Mookie Zerrang, I felt sympathy for Buford LaRose and enmity toward his wife, and I felt like I'd known Batist for a long time.  Dave Robicheaux was as polite, resolute, and conflicted as ever.	2003-07-21
US	51794962	R2GVJ0K3Q48JKC	0192801783	775189686	The Cold War: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The ideal introduction to the Cold War	McMahon presents this survey of the Cold War with authority, insight, and balance.  He takes us from the events of WWII that set the scene, to the US and Soviet disagreement over the disposition of Germany after the war, to the competing ideologies that led to a global competition, to the detente of the 70's, and to the end of the Cold War.  He puts the key events and players in their correct Cold War perspective, and he doesn't shrink from making moral judgements along the way.  I came away with a much firmer grasp on this important episode in our history.	2003-07-10
US	51794962	R108IMRKGLEX0J	0025874950	534952276	Willie's Game: An Autobiography	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A fun and informative look at one of pool's greatest players	Willie's Game chronicles the life of Willie Mosconi, one of the greatest pool players in the history of the game. That in itself makes it a necessary edition to a billiard enthusiast's bookcase, but those interested in sports, competition, and prodigies will enjoy it too.<br />From learning to play by hitting potatoes around on the pool table, to winning tournaments for big money, to setting the world record for the most balls run (526), Mosconi did it all. He talks a lot in his autobiography about what makes a good player, and about the difference between an apt technician and a champion.<br />As you'd expect, the personalities are colorful, especially when set against the background of early twentieth century America. Mosconi doesn't mince words about his impressions of and experiences with other pool notables. There's a lot of valuable pool history and anecdotes here.	2003-07-03
US	51794962	R1HYX48XXALW4V	0300018185	994064533	Impeachment: A Handbook	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A good introduction to a grave matter	Black's &quot;Impeachment&quot; is the ideal guide for the average citizen who hasn't studied constitutional law.  Black gives a thumbnail sketch of the impeachment process' mechanics and explains what we know about the framers' intentions.  He discusses the most often debated impeachment issues, and he offers his own interpretation of the process in general and comments on Nixon's impeachment.<br />The main points I took from this book are that impeachment gravely frays the fabric of American society, and that partisan politics has no place in the process; the linchpin of impeachment is the solemn statesmanship of our congressmen.  If another impeachment comes about in my lifetime, I'll let my congressmen know early in the proceedings that I'm counting on them to act without partisan bias.	2003-06-08
US	51794962	R1THSKI5K98WPZ	1560254734	155757841	The Hustler	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A classic novel about winning and losing	I have a BA in English literature and am an avid pool player, and I enjoyed The Hustler on both levels. Tevis' well written treatment of winning and losing as it happens on the green cloth and in the gray matter is realistic and detailed. The book goes into more detail about the psychology of competition than the movie does and differs from the movie at a few points in the plot. I thought the book was better than the movie, but I recommend them both.	2003-05-04
US	51794962	RDRTKALV3TTJ2	0844226769	201389339	Teach Yourself Greek Civilization	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A well presented survey of Greek civilization	Classics has always been one of my weak areas, but this book did a lot to give me a solid understanding of Greek civilization throughout its development and who the ancient Greeks were.  It was presented in a way that sparked my interest, and I now want to study Greek literature and Sparta in more detail.	2003-01-23
US	51794962	R9YQ2OBMV40D9	0060653469	17476479	Finding Your Religion: When the Faith You Grew Up With Has Lost Its Meaning	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Put me back on the path	I was one of the millions who fell out of my religion, prefering to tread water in the shallow pond of spiritual insight I had developed (I of course thought it was an ocean).  As time went by, I could feel my spirit becoming more atrophied.  By the time I came across this book, I had realized that doing it my own way wasn't good enough; I needed to be a part of a spiritual community.  Finding Your Religion confirmed me in that belief and helped me to see the importance of having a path.<br />If you feel the need to get back on your old path or maybe find a new one, this book is for you.	2003-01-23
US	51794962	R1XNXLUJ71AJQE	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Well researched voice of the Right	Patrick Buchanan is surely facing the harshest criticism for having written this book. He's surely being called a racist, a xenophobe, Hitler, and all the other nasties <i>du jour</i> because he doesn't preach the litany of the new religion, the one that strives to villify and destroy traditional Judeo-Christian American values.  He is, like many Americans, Christian and conservative. He maintains in this book that Judeo-Christian American values are worth maintaining. <br />Buchanan isn't a racist; he simply says it's okay to call foul when the race card is abused. He isn't a sexist; he maintains that traditional family arrangements are best for maintaining a healthy birth rate (despite what ultra-feminist groups say, most American women I know want to settle down and have a few kids while hubby wins the bread). He isn't a xenophobe; he observes that loosely controlled borders are detrimental to our social cohesion.<br />Some people have tried to dismiss <i>The Death of the West</i> as whining. Nothing could be farther from the truth. Buchanan has written almost three hundred heavily annotated pages that echo the feelings of the majority of Americans, and in those pages he suggests in detail how to reclaim the America most Americans want. I fail to see how this could be considered inaction or whining. Just the opposite, it is a labor of love being given by Patrick Buchanan to the American people.<br />On behalf of traditionalist Americans: thank you, Mr. Buchanan.	2003-01-16
US	51794962	RKDFWO9AAMWVS	0806509252	808618344	McGoorty: A Billiard Hustler's Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A fun tour of the golden age of billiards in the US	Thank goodness for people like Robert Byrne who have the foresight and passion to document the lives of subculture luminaries. Dan McGoorty was one such personality, and I'm glad this book is back in print. <br />On one hand, McGoorty was a person whom many considered a waste of life; on the other hand, he was a master of a complex and subtle game. The contrast of these two aspects of McGoorty makes for a fascinating read. There's also a section in which McGoorty shares with us his experience with other notable pool and billiard champs. Highly recommended for anybody interested in the history of billiards.	2002-12-18
US	51794962	RLTMR0CQO9P67	0812922417	99767536	The 99 Critical Shots in Pool: Everything You Need to Know to Learn and Master the Game (Other)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An excellent course for pool proficiency	99 Critical Shots functions as a shot-by-shot course that introduces aspiring players to sound pool concepts and helps them build the skill to execute these concepts. While no book will carry you from beginning to end (in-person advice from a skilled pool player is imperative), Martin and Reeves put the aspiring pool player on the right track.<br />The book starts out with basic shots, then builds in complexity. At no point is the player suddenly thrown into the deep end, but many of the shots are sufficiently detailed to force the player to concentrate on the mechanics necessary for well played pool.<br />Some of the diagrams could be plotted better, but they didn't detract from my learning. When I saw that a shot wasn't playing out like it was diagrammed, I analyzed it to see why the deviation was happening; I also experimented with different stroke speeds and English to see how they effected the shot. This experimentation taught me a lot. No other pool instruction book has encouraged me to experiment and analyze as much as 99 Critical Shots has.	2002-10-10
US	51794962	RRK7WI9FPJ8VZ	1887956344	503173726	Cornbread Red: Pool's Greatest Money Player	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	A priceless portrait of "pool's greatest money player"	\\"Cornbread Red\\" is the biography of Billy Joe Burge, one of America's best known pool gamblers. It isn't always a glamorous story, and much of Red's life couldn't be considered wholesome, but he undeniably earned his place in the history of pool. <br />Henning traces Burge's life from the small Kentucky town in which he started playing pool, to a few road trips in which he honed his game, to his tenure as carnival worker in which learned to read and \\"work\\" people, and on to one of the hottest gambling spots in the US. Whether it was in a small pool room behind a barber shop, or under the lights of Las Vegas, Red was there giving people a run for their money.<br />Although Red knew how to control the table, the heat of the gamble or the looseness of the gamblers' fraternity sometimes got the better of him. At a few points in the book, I cringed as Red allowed tens of thousands of dollars in recent winnings slip between his fingers. But Red's world isn't the one we live in, where such a loss would put us on the streets; Red had a talent for setting up matches and a support network that kept him on his feet. As Henning makes clear, these talents aren't to be underestimated. Red made his living and distinguished himself in a world that most of us have neither the skill nor the guts to enter.<br />This book could've easily been written as a condemnation of gambling. Red made some bad decisions along the way, as would anybody who lived in a world where people bet thousands of dollars on anything from one-handed pool games to cigarette tossing contests. Henning chooses, however, to focus on the grit that typified Red's experience. In fact, honest grit is what this book is about. It doesn't have the excitement, panache, and detail of \\"Playing Off the Rail\\" or \\"Willie's Game,\\" but it paints a vivid picture of the everyday money player's experience.	2002-10-09
US	51794962	RGVMSIN3MSX6X	1558538461	248206345	As a Gentleman Would Say: Responses to Life's Important (And Sometimes Awkward) Situations	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	A simple yet useful guide to conversational rough spots	The premise of this book is simple but important.  The authors present a series of touchy situations that can challenge a gentleman's tact, they show a few examples of what not to say in these situations, then offer a more thoughtful and responsible alternative.  Each of these is followed by an explanation of why the suggested comment is most appropriate for the situation.  Some of the situations concern a helping a friend in trouble, while others are about not making a fool of yourself or getting into trouble.<br />You won't remember every suggested comment is this verbatim, but I don't think that was the authors' point.  The book's primary value is in getting the budding gentleman to think before he speaks (or to know when not to speak).  If you often find yourself wanting to take back your words, this book could help you a lot.<br />As I said above, this book is limited in focus to making the right comment in those situations that often get the better of us.  For a good treatment on the dynamics of everyday conversation skills, take a look at Alan Garner's *Conversationally Speaking.*	2002-04-25
US	51794962	R2V2GEPHCD98RZ	0767900367	977913944	The Good Cigar: A Celebration of the Art of Cigar Smoking	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A wonderful read for the cigar enthusiast	<i>The Good Cigar</i> is to your brain what your tobacconist's walk-in humidor is to your nose. It's a cornucopia of history, anecdotes, and general cigar lore that makes you want to relax and stay a while. <br />Jeffers and Gordon start their history with the original tobacco lovers, the indigenous people of the Americas. Then they discuss the introduction and development of tobacco in Europe and the New World. Jeffers and Gordon acquaint us with many of the people who have influenced our image of cigars (Mark Twain, Groucho Marx, Ernest Hemingway, etc.) and give quotation buffs a nice supply of material. From the \\"Wooden Indian\\" to cigar boxes and bands, they explore the history and artistry of cigar paraphernalia.<br />The authors include a cigar index complete with their personal ratings of each cigar. The book shows its age here, as some of the cigars are no longer sold. This doesn't necessarily detract from the book. You just might run into somebody who's had a box aging for several years and is willing to trade a few sticks. In a situation like this, an older index of cigars would be helpful.<br />Jeffers and Gordon also cover humidors, cutters, and lighters. They even include a resource guide. These sections might lead the cigar neophyte to believe that cigar smoking is a costly pursuit, but this doesn't have to be the case. Less expensive and perfectly functional accessories are readily available; but as Winston Churchill warned, \\"Shoddiness can be found easily, in quantity\\" (I got that from this book). Choose carefully. There are several Internet message boards devoted to cigars that would be more helpful than this book in finding accessories that fit your taste and budget.	2002-03-21
US	51794962	R3SA6LEB45TULK	0964787431	445128355	Cigar Dossier Designed to Track and Rate your Cigar Experiences	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A superb journal for the cigar enthusiast	If you'd like to keep track of the different cigars you've smoked - not a bad idea considering the vast amount of smokes available - Cigar Dossier will have you logging thoroughly and in style.  With about a hundred and sixty pages with four entries each, the average smoker could record a lifetime of stogies.  Each entry provides space for the brand and size of cigar, where purchased, cost, time and date smoked, your rating, last meal eaten and time (I don't use this one, but it's a nice touch), wrapper color, your comments, and the cigar's band to be pasted.  There's also a page on which you can list your favorite cigars and tobacconists, then a few more pages for your notes.  It's nicely bound in a black hardcover with gold embossed letters.  The pages are cream colored with soft burgundy print.<br />If I were asked to improve this book, I would add a block to each entry in which to record the country where the cigar is made.  Other than that, this log has everything the cigar enthusiast needs.  Cigar Dossier is a classy journal that would easily be a cherished family heirloom for future generations of cigar enthusiasts.	2002-03-18
US	51794962	RFGMGHIF4MRRQ	1856190552	346793546	Expensive Habits	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A light-hearted stroll through the finer things	In Expensive Habits, Peter Mayle takes us along as he savors luxuries ranging from hand-rolled cigars to spending sprees in Manhattan. He appropriately relates some of these delicacies light-heartedly and accords others the respect they deserve, always amusing and charming us along the way.    This book is far from being a snob's record of his indulgences. Peter Mayle, while obviously fond of quality, is by his own admission a man of modest circumstances. Thus he shares such experiences as being fitted for custom shoes and taking a private jet across France for lunch with the tone of a friendly guide for those of us who have to ask.  Not only do we get the vicarious experience of having custom shoes made, we also come to understand that there's a good reason why this luxury costs as much as it does.    Then there are expensive burdens thrust upon us that can hardly be considered among life's finer things.  Mayle playfully offers Christmas, being sued, and having guests as examples of social strains that quickly lighten wallets and fray nerves. Perhaps my favorite line from the book, in the chapter about second homes: \\"And I have never liked imposing myself on friends for extended stays ('Fish and guests smell at three days old' is a Danish proverb that puts it succinctly).\\"    Whether you're looking to find a way to pamper yourself, or just to see how green the grass really is on the other side of the millionaire's security gate, you'll enjoy this book.	2002-03-12
US	51794962	R3N77LWLLI6UBO	0156012197	781565906	The Little Prince	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Read it for your kids and for you	This isn't just a children's book. The Little Prince is a message of love and compassion for people of any age. Other reviewers have summarized the story and explored its lessons at length, but you can't appreciate how profoundly meaningful and beautiful this story is until you've made it your own. You can read it in a sitting, but it will stay with you for life.	2002-02-27
US	51794962	R3DIGGPVC1LO29	1881659496	889965860	Cigar Aficionado's: Buying Guide : Ratings & Prices for More Than 1200 Cigars	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Nothing more than a few tips for the beginner smoker	This was the first cigar book I bought, and I outgrew it within a week. Most of the information it presents can be found on the Internet.<br />I learned a lot from the chapters that introduce basic cigar shapes and wrapper colors and discuss how to store, cut, light, and smoke cigars. But the meat of the guide, the index of cigar ratings, most of which was done in 1996 and 1997, wouldn't be very useful in a cigar shop today. I've found my local tobacconist's advice to be much more helpful.<br />I learned more about alcoholic beverages from this book than I did cigars. Cognac and brandies, port, scotch and Irish whiskey, rum, and bourbon each have a chapter dedicated to them. Those unfamiliar with these drinks will learn a little about their distinguishing qualities. Unfortunately, there are no suggestions in this book about matching cigars with drinks, but Cigar Aficionado has since posted articles about cigar and drink compatibility on its Web site.<br />The final few pages of the guide are a personal cigar tasting log in which all but the most occasional of smokers would quickly run out of room. You can of course transfer the basic format of the tasting log to a notebook, or purchase a separate tasting log (tasting log software for PC's and palmtops is available too). <br />If you're very new to cigars and happen to see a copy of the CA Buying Guide at your local library, go ahead and borrow it. If you want a book about cigars for your bookcase, I'd recommend The Good Cigar by Jeffers and Gordon. Other than that, take advantage of the wealth of information on the Internet.	2002-02-27
US	51794962	R2S859Y31OPR8Z	0380729237	225140236	Playing Off the Rail: A Pool Hustler's Journey	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Next best thing to going on the road	If you like pool, this book will take you to the heart--and often underbelly--of the game. You'll get a glimpse of some of pool's renown personalities like Grady Matthews, Morro, Cole Dickson, and you'll appreciate McCumber's ability to analyze the qualities that make these people world-class players. You'll taste the diner food, smell the chalk dust, and hear the click of the balls.<br />The great pool players say that the game is 90% mental, and McCumber devotes a lot of attention to the mental goings-on that make and break pool players.  If you're working on your mental game, you'll learn a lot. <br />Even if you aren't a pool buff, Playing Off the Rail with still treat you to a cross-continental adventure with one of North America's colorful and fascinating subcultures.	2002-01-18
US	51794962	R1APPSLALQFNVE	1558535969	580210543	How to Be a Gentleman: A Contemporary Guide to Common Courtesy	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Bridges points the way to civilized manliness	I grew up in typical middle-class America, where fine dinners and operas weren't a part of my everyday experience. My catholic school education instilled manners in me, but when I moved to a more cosmopolitan environment and became more social, I realized that \\"please/thank you\\" manners weren't enough. I was polite, but I lacked etiquette. Bridges' book took me a long way toward changing that.<br />Bridges showed me how awkwardly I made introductions and handled myself at the dinner table. Armed with his advice, I now introduce people more smoothly and facilitate an ice-breaker conversation (something I used to overlook). I now handle social dinners with grace and don't get flustered when I see my plate flanked by numerous specialized utensils, and I've noticed acknowledging glances from friends - especially female ones.<br />Thank you notes are another good tip. Since reading How To Be a Gentleman, I've started sending casual thank you notes via E-mail after a night out. I at first wondered if this would come across as stuffy, but these short \\"had a great time see you soon\\" notes have proven to be the perfect icing for friendships. <br />I especially liked Bridges' examples of what to say - and what not to say - in certain situations. We've all put our foot in our mouth and spoke without thinking first. Bridges offers good advice for avoiding these situations.<br />Bridges occasionally sounds starchy, such as when he says that \\"if the salad fork is in the wrong place [the gentleman] does not make a scene.\\" This might sound condescending, but some people might get a little pretentious with their newfound gentleman's status. I thought it was appropriate for Bridges to throw in an occasional ego check along the way.<br />I've read a few other etiquette books and have noticed that 90% of the advice is the same throughout them all. Of the ones I've seen, Bridges does the best job of addressing his audience in a way that clearly makes his point, presenting advice in an easily digestible way. Sections are divided situationally (\\"A Gentleman Says the Right Thing,\\" \\"When To Send Flowers,\\" etc.), thus making specific advice accessible when one needs it. Illustrations of how to tie a bowtie and how to set a table are great additions.	2001-08-21
US	51794962	R106LQ3R670O9D	0765606607	221842838	Leaving Japan: Observations on a Dysfunctional U.S.-Japan Relationship	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent behind-the-scenes examination	As an American who has lived in Japan for eight years and digested volumes of scholarship on Japan, I can say with a certain amount of authority that Millard's book stands among the best of the to-the-point titles.<br />In Leaving Japan, Millard explores how Japan has been exploiting America's markets, while tenaciously protecting its domestic markets. Millard shows how America has made itself vulnerable to this abuse because of its somewhat outdated US-Japan security alliance. For the sake of the \\"broader relationship\\" (military presence in Japan), America has sacrificed many American companies and jobs so that Japanese businesses could set up camp in America. While there are examples of Japanese companies that have bought sinking businesses in America and revitalized them and the local communities they supported, this isn't always the case. <br />Realizing that that the US security treaty is its ticket to US markets, Japan has put the brunt of the burden for hosting the US military on Okinawa, an arrangement laden with bitter ironies. Having lived in Okinawa, Millard authoritatively and humanely examines the adverse effects this has had on Okinawa (US military presence of course boosts the economy, but economy isn't everything).<br />Millard's work is important because, as the title says, the relationship between the world's largest and second-largest economies is dysfunctional. Rather than acknowledging where their differences lie so they can keep appropriate neighborly distance, these two nations have in too many instances obligated themselves to each other first, then thought about it later. Calling it cultural outreach is embarrassingly naive; these obligations are almost entirely motivated by greed on both sides. These two civilizations are culturally as well as geographically a world apart. On both sides, a certain amount of distrust from the days of WWII remains, and media and entertainment twist perceptions of the other side. More fundamentally, America places a heavy emphasis on the individual, whereas the Japanese prefer to rely on group relations. This might not sound like a big difference, but just ask an American in Japan who has on occasions had to fight to hold onto his or her identity, or a Japanese person in America who feels lonely because s/he doesn't have the support and comfort of the Japanese group. A lot of misunderstandings arise out of this one fundamental difference, and neither side will likely get its head around the other's feelings.	2001-08-15
US	51794962	R3BCA3FRX8QFSN	0809242559	372869975	Steve Mizerak's Complete Book of Pool	Books	2	1	3	N	N	If you only buy one book on pool...	this shouldn't be it.  Steve Mizerak is a great player, and watching him play is always a pleasure.  Unfortunately, his grace at the table barely makes it into this book.  <br />I bought this book several years ago when I first started playing seriously, and it did little to improve my game.  Once I started playing in the company of a few good players, I had no use for Mizerak's book.  If you want that &quot;if you could only have one book on pool&quot; title, I highly recommend Robert Byrne's New Standard Book of Pool and Billiards.	2000-09-30
US	51794962	R3RVDTXJIV3OX4	0940005034	613968080	Knife and Pistol Fighting	Books	1	10	33	N	N	I hope nobody intends to defend his/her life with this.	If you want to read about handgun defense, look for books and articles by Ayoob, Applegate, Fairbairn, Cirillo, etc. Nothing in this book is conducive to realistic defense of one's life.<br />Hatsumi's books (at least those published in English) seem geared more for the overly impressionable young teenager than for mature people who are aware of the realities of the modern world.  I've practiced Eastern martial arts and dabbled in Western combat concepts for several years, and I've seen how inadequate Hatsumi's notions are in the face of modern combat realities.  If you're hanging out with asian-style martial artists who will give you a dojo type of fight, you might do okay.  But you're looking for the skills and frame of mind to cope with life in the big bad city, don't waste your time with this irrelevant nonsense.	2000-02-22
US	51794962	R3VPNUMDZB1MRZ	4770020449	220856366	Reading the Japanese Mind: The Realities Behind Their Thoughts and Actions	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A good survey of the Japanese sensibility	Popular media, stereotypes, etc. have made great strides in misinforming the West about Japan. Japan is much more complex than sushi, martial arts, and electronics; and the people are more realistic than kamikaze businessmen and geisha girls. The Japanese have a very highly evolved social structure, and anyone who is interested in dealing with or studying Japan should read books like this one. Dr. March explains the Japanese pysche in a way that Westerners can understand. He doesn't dramatize their thinking as a sort of sage wisdom, nor does he go out of his way to discredit the Japanese. <br />There are a few instances, however, in which March places too much emphasis on his personal experiences when drawing conclusions about the Japanese. It cannot be stressed enough that although Japan is a group-oriented society, the people are still individuals. One or two experiences certainly cannot be taken as a definition of the culture. <br />One must also understand that Japan is changing rapidly. Even the concept of being Japanese is not the same as it was a few decades ago. Conservative people will always be around, but they do not necessarily represent today's Japan. <br />All in all though, Reading the Japanese Mind is a good guide to the Japanese mindset.	1999-10-28
