US	51791250	R17RG2ES3173O2	0373750927	496302836	A Fabulous Husband	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Yet more fun after 40!	Dr. Barbara Jean Fairmont, \\"BJ\\" to her friends, seems to have it all, a successful medical practice, a loving family and devoted friends. The only thing missing is the baby that she desperately yearns for. When Colonel Flynn MacIntire, her old high school flame, comes back to town in need of physical therapy for a leg injury, BJ doesn't hesitate to jump in and help him.  <br /> <br />Flynn unintentionally finds an adoption agency letter in BJ's kitchen and comes up with the idea of a marriage of convenience. BJ could not have been more shocked at his unbelievable proposal but he persists, explaining that if she were married the likelihood of her adopting might increase and and in the meantime she can work with him in getting his leg back in shape so he can return to active duty. <br /> <br />The entire town of Whistler's Bend, Montana loves and relies upon \\"Doc\\" BJ, and once Flynn returns, he too is thrown right into the mix. Characters from the first book in this series, A Fabulous Wife, revisit with the same charm and wit as before. When you add two adorable brothers whose little lives also depend heavily on BJ and eventually Flynn, and who are in turn needed just as much themselves, you have a truly satisfying love story, one that encompasses the adults as well as the children. <br /> <br />This book contains a heartwarming story of friendship and love, and will stay in your thoughts for some time after you've finished reading. I enjoyed it very much and look forward to A Fabulous Wedding, although I will regret the close of this wonderful series by Dianne Castell. <br /> <br />	2005-10-11
US	51791250	R1YYRNPRXL10SM	0758212143	406716090	The Night Before Christmas	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Christmas fun!	WHITE KNIGHT CHRISTMAS/LORI FOSTER <br />Lily Donaldson and Detective Parker Ross live in the same apartment building. She loves Christmas, doing good deeds and is crazy about Parker. Parker on the other hand dislikes the holidays, thinks Lily is attractive, but believes he is too old for her. Lily wants one passion filled night to change Parker's mind. Once they spend that night together, Parker's Christmas wishes involve many more nights with Lily. Lori Foster's characters are always written from her great big heart, always with similarities to people we know; Lily and Parker are no exception. <br />SNOWED UNDER/ERIN MCCARTHY <br />Claire Robbins is finishing her Christmas shopping when she is buried under by a giant wall of snow from a passing snowplow.  She goes to her brother's nearby apartment to dry off and warm up, finding her brother's friend Justin Fairbanks staying there. Claire and Justin have always shared an unspoken attraction for each other.  Once Justin has to helped Claire get her wet, frozen clothes off, it's inevitable that they will spend the night together, finally confessing their true feelings. Erin McCarthy once again delivers characters that are full of charm and puts them in the middle of satisfying, sensual story. <br />MS. HUMBUG/JILL SHALVIS <br />City Planner Cami Bennett is all business, intensely disliking Christmas. Her boss, Mayor Matt Tarino is attracted to Cami inspite of the office rumors that she is cold. After sharing a kiss neither can deny that the attraction is definitely mutual. Matt now has his work cut out for him in proving to Cami that he is not the womanizer that everyone thinks he is. Jill Shalvis makes these wonderful characters come to life with humor and a well-written office setting, wrapped in just the right amount of sensuousness. <br />I'LL BE HOME FOR CHRISTMAS/KATHY LOVE <br />Former lovers Rob Marsten and Erica Fetzer find themselves stranded at the airport in the midst of a raging snowstorm. After sharinga rental car and later a hotel room waiting for the storm to pass, they quickly rekindle old flames and spend a passion-filled night together, only to regret having to go their separate ways in the morning. They both are left to wonder if the other shares the same feelings. This is a fun story by Kathy Love with well-written characters and a sweet story.  <br />SEDUCING SCROOGE/KATHY GARBERA <br />Jackson Peterson hates the holidays and everything they involve; he's pretty sure that co-worker Kristin Miller feels the same since she tends to be a workaholic just like him.  She decides to blackmail him into having dinner with her by withholding the work product he needs that she has done on the project they are working on. Kristin knows that deep down Jackson isn't the scrooge that he pretends to be, and <br />after a hot, steamy night with Kristin, he just might be convinced of that himself. Kathy Garbera's contribution to this anthology is a satisfyingly fun read with a workplace setting that is a real pleasure.  <br />THE GOOD GIRL'S GUIDE TO A VERY BAD CHRISTMAS/KYLE ADAMS <br />Peri Knight's recent broken engagement is a bitter pill to swallow. Actor Chase McCloud regularly visits the coffee shop where Peri works while waiting for her acting career to take off. A successful audition lands Peri a part on the same television show that made Chase famous and he agrees to help her practice her lines. After they go out for dinner to celebrate her success, their practice turns into much more, Peri gets a glimpse of what it's like to have it all. Ms. Adams offers up a humorous story with a sensual punch and a very amusing look at the television business. <br />The six authors in this anthology have gifted their readers with sensuous holidays stories, each as sweet as sugar plums. This book is a must for fun holiday reading. <br />	2005-09-28
US	51791250	R36LYS2ZIXV8GP	0758208472	170734544	The Pregnancy Test	Books	5	96	102	N	N	Wonderful reading	Mandy Keeling, while on her way to a job interview is suddenly overcome by morning sickness so severe that she is literally doubled over in an elevator. There is a gorgeous man on the elevator with her. Imagine her horror upon finding out that he is none other than Damien \\"Demon\\" Sharpton, the very man her interview is scheduled with. Damien is just as horrified, being totally clueless as to what to do for this very sick woman. Despite the interview ending with Mandy throwing up in his wastebasket, Damien hires Mandy as his assistant and is grateful that he has found someone so efficient. His only qualm is that he never sees her as the majority of their communication <br />is done by instant messaging and email. He has no way of knowing that Mandy is purposefully avoiding him so he won't notice her slowly expanding waistline. She desperately needs this job for the health insurance benefits as well as the regular hours which will make arranging day care much easier. Damien wants to spend more time with Mandy and insists that she accompany him on a business trip to the Caribbean. Mandy doesn't want to go, not only for the risk of Damien seeing her in a swimsuit, but because she has been having highly erotic dreams about him. Soon the two of them are playing games, both innocent resort games and more erotic private games. Eventually Damien finds out about Mandy's pregnancy; when he fully understands the reasons behind her secrecy, he cannot believe that the father could abandon her the way he did.  Despite the intense sexual attraction between her and Damien, Mandy is worried about what the future will hold for her and her baby. Erin McCarthy has yet again given readers a beautifully written story, with humor, sensuality, a very real look at pregnancy and the trepidation when that pregnancy is unexpected. This book is an emotionally charged example of the best of Erin McCarthy.	2005-09-20
US	51791250	R23BVHL8QKI5AJ	0373792085	339041919	Her Body Of Work	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very enjoyable, sensual book	Chicago artist Rey Martinson needs a model for a sculpture that she has been commissioned to do for a very wealthy client. This is the chance of a lifetime for Rey, but she just can't get into the project. Her agent suggests that a little sexual action might be just what Rey needs; Rey totally disagrees, until she sees prospective model Marco Flores. Marco is an undercover DEA agent who has gone to the interview with Rey as a favor for his look-alike actor/model brother Francisco, who has been called to California for a soap opera audition. Rey has seen dozens of nude male models, and has always remained unaffected by them, but Marco brings about wicked thoughts that Rey has not experienced for a very long time. Marco is also shocked at the feelings Rey evokes in him and is instantly attracted to her. When Marco sets out to seduce Rey, she is helpless in dissuading him and the two begin an incredibly hot love affair, sharing their bodies and eventually their hearts.  <br />  <br />Rey does not know Marco's true identity, nor that he is on the run from a Colombian drug lord who is determined to get rid of Marco and those close to him before he can testify at an upcoming trial.  Having his mother away on her honeymoon for several weeks and his brother across the country, Marco is certain that they are safe, but strange happenings make him begin to fear for Rey's life. <br /> <br />Rey does not expect to fall in love with Marco, although she finds herself doing just that. Marco is falling equally fast, and makes sure that Rey knows how he feels about her and his hopes for their future together, but he is unsure of how she will react when she finds out that he has been deceiving her about who he really is. <br /> <br />Ms. Donovan has written one hot book with HER BODY OF WORK; these characters are attracted to each other immediately and watching their mutual attraction blossom and grow into something much deeper is a real pleasure. Marco is a hero of womanly dreams andthe insight into his Cuban heritage is very interesting.  He's caring, considerate, respectful and ever so charming.  Rey is a strong, driven woman who is intelligent and passionate and unafraid and unashamed to show either of those characteristics. A little danger, a little suspense, and a lot of sensuality make this a very enjoyable book. <br /> <br />Courtesy Laurie/Romance Junkies	2005-09-09
US	51791250	R1UN1MKHJIBDEZ	0373792018	622198027	Kiss & Makeup	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Romance in Manhattan	Shandi Fossey works tending bar at Hush, the sexy new hotel in Manhattan, until she's able to finish school and find that dream job as a makeup artist in the theater or film industry. Quentin Marks, in town on business, visits the bar every night after spotting Shandi working there, repeatedly offering to buy her a drink. He is drawn to Shandi in a way he has never been drawn to a woman before. Shandi feels that same pull, but in her determination to get her career on track, she does not want to look beyond a brief affair.    When Quentin's business is concluded in New York, he is determined to take Shandi with him to his home and the quiet life he misses in Texas. Convincing her to go with him for a short visit proves difficult. She is fearful of establishing a deeper relationship with Quentin, not wanting to compromise reaching her career goals.     Alison Kent once again brings her readers the unique, sensual characters that they have come to expect from her and a high recommendation comes easily.	2005-08-26
US	51791250	R2WO7S0TYSQHMB	0758211376	488579786	Get A Clue	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Wonderfully fun	Things were not going according to plan when Breanne Mooreland arrives at her honeymoon destination soaked to the skin, chilled to the bone, minus her luggage and her groom, seeing how she had just been left at the alter. At least she thought she was alone, until she walks in on a naked man in her honeymoon suite. Cooper Scott, who needed some time away from his job as a cop, also thought he was alone. Imagine his surprise at being ogled by a woman wielding a dayglo pink vibrator. This was the first surprise of many for the two of them. Continuing surprises include a blinding snowstorm that simply would not let up, a most unusual staff that is determined to accommodate them despite a power failure from the storm, and Cooper and Breanne fighting a losing battle against the undeniable attraction that is pulling them together. After a dead body is discovered in the wine cellar and Cooper's law enforcement training takes over, he is determined to keep Breanne safe, not knowing who can be trusted. Cooper and Breanne are absolutely adorable and the cast of secondary characters in this book is pure fun. Jill Shalvis never fails to deliver romance with a laugh, a tug at the heartstrings, and a wonderful dose of steamy romance. Add to that a touch of mystery that adds just the right touch. Get A Clue is food for the romantic soul.	2005-08-16
US	51791250	RYQR577TJ1RX7	1419952285	339814950	Underground Guardians: Protector (Book 1)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent romantic suspense	The year 2015 finds Professor Holly Heart working at a university medical institute when she runs quite literally into Mason Alexander on the university campus. Mason and Holly are neither one unaffected by the run-in, experiencing overwhelming feelings and sexual awareness that they had given up on long ago. Holly is working to convince the government to approve genetic therapy to stop poorly managed genetic replacement treatments. Her father had been actively attempting to halt these treatments as they had caused numerous mentally unstable<br /><br />people. When Holly is approached by a government representative requesting that she assist in solving problems within its program to build a league of super soldiers, she adamantly refuses. Mason turns out to be one of those super soldiers and there was no accident in his running into Holly. Mason is out to protect Holly from the rogue Arions, who have their own agenda for her, dead or alive. Readers will question whether Mason will be able to protect Holly as well as which of the many secondary characters can be trusted, and will be cheering for Holly find it in her heart to love and accept Mason for who and what he really is.<br /><br />This story has many twists and turns, keeping readers on their toes at all times. This book can be enjoyed by fans of romantic suspense, futuristic and paranormal genres. It is a well-rounded, suspenseful story with wonderful attention to detail and just enough sensuality to satisfy romantic suspense fans. I am especially looking forward to reading Healer, the next book in this series. I highly recommend this book.	2005-08-15
US	51791250	R20R0FVB6CJ4VH	0373836783	449292985	Unzipped: Tantalizing\His Every Fantasy\Playmates	Books	5	44	44	N	N	Three great authors=three great stories	Tantalizing/Lori Foster<br /><br />Josie Jackson's sister arranges a blind date for her with Bob Morrison. Both dreaded the blind date; he expected a stuffy, matronly prude while Josie assumed that Bob would be another boring, nerdy man just as all of her sister's other fix-ups had been. Josie decides to scare off her geeky match with a red-hot outfit, hair and make up, never dreaming that her date would be a gorgeous specimen of a man capable of showing her just how sensuous she is. The only problem is that Bob isn't Bob at all; he's Bob's business partner Nick Harris. Nick agreed to stand in for Bob because Bob is crazy about Josie's sister, Susan and doesn't want to date anyone else. Nick allows Josie to believe that he is Bob, thinking that he would continue to see her just a while longer, and then he was unwilling to stop the exquisite pleasure he has found in helping Josie lose her inhibitions. But when pleasure turns into something much deeper and Nick still hasn't told Josie the truth, he fears what her reaction will be at being deceived.<br /><br />Lori Foster has once again given her readers a lighthearted, sexy story with more of the adorable characters that she is known for.<br /><br />His Every Fantasy/Janelle Denison<br /><br />Leah Burton wants to know how to please a man before she marries her fiance, seeing how he doesn't warm her up in the same way as Jace Rutledge, her older brother's best friend. When Leah tells Jace that she needs a favor of him, he never dreams that her request would involve tutoring her in sensual pleasure. When he hesitates and she suggests that perhaps she should look elsewhere for instruction, he finds that he cannot stand the thought of her being intimate with anyone but him. After sharing every intimacy imaginable, Jace simply cannot let Leah go and he sets out to convince her that his feelings are true, but he isn't sure if she shares those feelings.<br /><br />This is a very steamy story that romance lovers will love.<br /><br />Playmates/Crystal Green<br /><br />Sean McIntyre and Fiona Cruz handle public relations/marketing management for two of the hottest actors, and are working hard at keeping the peace between their respective clients, they work brilliantly together in front of the camera but behind it seem capable of murdering each other. Keeping their hands to themselves proved to be just as difficult for Sean and Fiona. They thought that they could play the game without falling in love, but it begins to look like that will be harder than either anticipates.<br /><br />Crystal Green has written an incredibly sensual story with characters that are very much in touch with their sensual selves.	2005-08-15
US	51791250	R3GPIRIYIF178V	0373712790	813514455	His Real Father: Twins (Harlequin Superromance No. 1279)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sweet romance	Joe Kelly returns to his small hometown in California from Los Angeles after his mother announces that she is selling the family bar and getting married. This means that Joe will have to face childhood friend Lisa Madden, the woman he spent most of his youth loving. Seventeen years before Lisa had chosen Joe's twin brother, Patrick, over him but Patrick died before the two could marry, the result of a drunken driving accident in which Patrick was the driver.  <br />Lisa Madden discovered that she was pregnant shortly before Patrick was killed but having had a one night fling with Joe, she questioned the child's paternity. Patrick assured her that he was unquestionably the father, insisting that Joe was not able to father a child; Lisa was left to raise her son Brandon alone after Patrick's death.  Joe had left for Los Angeles and embarked on a successful career as a filmmaker.  Lisa always felt an undeniable attraction to Joe, despite the fact that Patrick was her boyfriend and later her fianc. Lisa is carrying a heavy load on her shoulders; she is finally graduating from college, after attending off and on for years, she helps Joe's mother at the bar and she has hopes of buying the bar from her. Lisa is also trying to keep her teenage son on the right path after he shows signs of experimenting with alcohol. Given Patrick's problems and eventual death as a result of his alcoholism, Lisa is especially concerned about the direction Brandon seems to be headed. Joe begins to realize all that he has missed by being away from Lisa and his family for so many years; he finds himself longing to make Lisa and Brandon a part of his life. <br />Lisa knows that she must tell Joe of her suspicions as to Brandon's paternity, not knowing what his reaction will be, and she also has to face the troubled relationship she has with her own mother, who was never there when Lisa was growing up, and whose promiscuous behavior was a constant source of embarrassment to Lisa. Joe's mother isalso struggling emotionally, having successfully battled breast cancer, and being engaged to a man whose suitability for her is being questioned by everyone. <br />These characters experience a roller coaster of emotions; not only do you feel their joy and pain, but Lisa's experiences as the mother of a teen are familiar to everyone who is or has been responsible for a child. The impact of Lisa's mother's behavior during Lisa's youth and the impact of that behavior on her as an adult are excellently written. Ms. Salonen allows these characters to shine, both on their own and in their caring and compassion for each other. HIS REAL FATHER is a well written book with comfortable characters with very real feelings, heartaches and triumphs, and giving it a high recommendation comes easily.  Courtesy Laurie/Romance Junkies <br /> <br />	2005-08-07
US	51791250	R1R746A15PTALZ	0373750811	552019427	A Fabulous Wife	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Forty IS Fabulous!	When Maggie Moran and Jack Dawson divorced thirteen years ago, it was because Maggie could not live with the worrisome stress associated with being the wife of a Chicago cop. Now Jack and his parents have traveled to Montana for his son's high school graduation. When Jack arrives to find Maggie preparing to head out at night in search of her stolen bull, he finds himself being overly protective and feeling the need to take over the investigation. Maggie tries to convince Jack that she is perfectly capable of taking care of herself, having done so for the past thirteen years.  When old feelings are refreshed and once again become new, Jack and Maggie both try to deny what is happening between them. Throw into the mix a teenage son, comical, caring parents, tastefully written yet steamy passion, and a dash of suspense and you have a beautiful story of love between a hero and heroine who are a smidgeon older and more mature than what is the norm in women's fiction. A Fabulous Wife is a breath of fresh air; Dianne Castell has written a beautiful story that romance lovers are sure to enjoy. I look forward to the upcoming books in this trilogy.	2005-08-06
US	51791250	R29S7WBLTJJ9ER	0345467868	288444576	Wicked Fantasy: A Novel (Paradise)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Beautifully written historical romance	Antonia Maitland first meets the dashing Trey Deverill at the tender age of seventeen at her father's London home. Trey was well-known for his adventures and explorations, most notably his daring pirate battles on the high seas. Antonia never tired of hearing his adventuresome tales and found herself envious of the escapades of this close friend of her father's. Four years later Antonia's father is dead and his housekeeper suspects that Antonia's intended, Baron Heward, is responsible for his death, further believing that once Heward and Antonia are married and he has full control of her wealth, that she too will be killed. The housekeeper requests that Trey investigate Heward and protect Antonia while doing so. An American cousin of Trey's who does business with Maitland Shipping gives Trey insight to unscrupulous business dealings that Heward is participating in while running the shipping business, but Antonia does not want to believe him. Trey repeatedly sets out to intentionally provoke Heward in Antonia's presence, hopeful that he will lose his temper and show his true nature. Once Trey succeeds in humiliating Heward, he is met with brutal retaliation and finds himself needing to escape London, kidnapping Antonia and taking her with him to a secret location until he can prove Heward's guilt. With the assistance of fellow members of the Guardians of the Sword, Trey sets out to protect Antonia and prove Heward's guilt. When Antonia insists on being a part of Heward's downfall, Trey doesn't want to put her life at risk, although he understands her wanting to help put Heward in prison for her father's murder. Trey's plan begins to fall into place what he doesn't plan on is falling in love with Antonia. He knows that Antonia plans to follow her father's wish for her to marry a man of nobility. Realizing that she is falling in love with Trey, Antonia is torn between what her heart desires and the notion that she should do as her father wished. These characters are sowell written that they leap to life on the pages. Nicole Jordan's heroes, Trey being no exception, are always strongly masculine, charming and determined in their passions. Antonia is strengthened by intelligence, wit, grace and beauty. Ms. Jordan never fails to deliver a book that is full of historical detail, heart-pounding danger and breathtaking sensuality. The secondary characters are exceptionally written without overpowering Trey and Antonia. WICKED FANTASY has my very highest recommendation, an absolute must-read for lovers of sensual historical romance. Courtesy Laurie/Romance Junkies	2005-07-26
US	51791250	R21ZPHCL7ZCKMJ	0758210949	457714614	Beach Blanket Bad Boys	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Get out your sunscreen - this book is hot!	Batteries Not Included by Linda Lael Miller <br />Gayle Hayes left Parable, Montana long ago after her heart was broken by Tristan McCullough. Now she's back to help her mother and Tristan wants to continue where they left off; Gayle thinks that maybe she should leave to avoid heartache again. <br /> <br />Sara Smiles by Alison Kent <br />Jax Stacey's marriage proposal was turned down by Sara Wade. Sara fears that marriage will change their perfect relationship. When she changes her mind later, and has a surprise for Jax, she fears that he won't believe that she was wrong before and that she truly wants to spend the rest of her life by his side, for all of the right reasons. <br /> <br />Seducing Tabby by Lucy Monroe <br />Calder Maxwell is the most gorgeous man that Tabby Payton has ever set eyes on. Calder must convince Tabby that his interest in her is true and not just an attempt to get closer to her beautiful sister. He will do whatever it takes to convince Tabby that she's the only one for him. <br /> <br />Captivated by Jill Shalvis <br />Ella Scott has investigated herself into yet another bind, this time handcuffed naked to the bathroom towel rod where her estranged husband James finds her. The dangerous situations that Ella gets herself into were more than James could handle, causing their separation. James loves Ella more than life itself and decides to help get her out of this jam in order to prove it.  <br /> <br />Sister Switch by Susanna Carr <br />Tracy Parks and her identical twin switch places at Tracy's wedding rehearsal and dinner; she has every intention of being back in time for the wedding. Nicholas Taggart unexpectedly shows up in the honeymoon suite and finds her hiding. When he starts kissing Tracy, she wonders if he knows which sister she really is? <br /> <br />Spencer For...Ever by Morgan Leigh <br />Arden Prescott returns to Martha's Vineyard after a recent divorce, intending to turn the family home into a Bed & Breakfast. Local fisherman Kip Spencer's heart was broken by Arden once before and he refuses to let her get close to him again. What will Kip do when he finds out why Arden left before and why she has come back? <br /> <br />These six blistering tales have deliciously bad boys and the incredible women who love them. All are very sensuous, being written by authors who understand what women want in romantic fiction. This book should be required summer reading! <br /> <br />	2005-07-14
US	51791250	R6T774N2D9O53	0765312409	959221788	Sofie Metropolis	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Wonderfully fun!	After catching her intended in a clutch with her maid of honor, in the church before their wedding nonetheless, Sofie Metropolis sets out to change her life.  Sofie quits her job waiting tables in her family's cafes and begins working at her uncle's detective agency.  Her spare time, if you could call it that, is spent attempting to collect rent from the financially challenged tenants in the apartment building that she received as a wedding gift from her family.  When Sofie's detective job requires her to find a missing man thought by some to be a vampire, a missing Jack Russell terrier and attempting to expose a cheating wife, she finds herself hiding from the FBI with a sexy man of mystery, Jake Porter.  Sofie wants Jake to be more than just her own personal protector, but she does not even know and cannot seem to find out, just who he really is.  The expectations of Sofie's family and friends would be the undoing of the average woman.  Sofie, however, seems to thrive on them; using them as fuel to strengthen herself as a woman. Sofie's unyielding drive and determination is heartening, an endearing quality that everyone in her life come to expect. Jake is, of course, the stuff of every woman's dreams. The team of Tori Carrington has once again given us an adorable character that is intelligent and strong.  Secondary characters are directly out of everyone's family and neighborhood, cleverly written with incredible imagination and humor.  Readers are made to feel as if they have stepped through the pages and directly into Sofie's life. This book is chick lit at its best, with sexual references being made, but containing no sex scenes.  The lack of explicitness makes this a book that will appeal to a very broad audience.  Sofie's Greek family is written with such realistic detail that you can picture and hear them in your mind for some time after you put the book down. The quirky Sofie will remain with you also, just like an old friend.  This book is exceptionally written with lovable characters; it is easy to give it an outstanding recommendation. <br /> <br />Courtesy Laurie/Romance Junkies	2005-07-14
US	51791250	R3JUJ3XTQTRCC2	0758207948	526429835	The River Devil	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent historical romance	Successful riverboat captain Hal Lindsay is quite surprised to look across the poker table and into the eyes of railroad heiress Rosalind Schuyler, especially since she is disguised as a man. Rosalind is running from a marriage to a truly evil man whose plan to marry her will be immediately followed by a plan to kill her to get his hands on a significant inheritance. She is terrified when Hal discovers her true identity for fear that he will let the truth slip. Hal has no intention of exposing Rosalind. He finds her fascinating and would rather keep her under his protection, in masculine disguise in pubic, with the pretense of her being in his employ as his cub. She will be with him every hour of every day, even bunking in his stateroom without any questions. As the two of them spend time together, passions explode and Rosalind finds herself falling in love with Hal. Hal likes to have a good time with a woman, any woman, but compared to the feminine warmth that he has found with Rosalind, those interludes are cold and meaningless. He does not care for the feelings that Rosalind arouses in him when they are alone together. Hal had a dark, violent childhood and fears that he may have inherited his father's taste for violence; he has vowed to never marry and father children. Rosalind, on the other hand, dreams of a loving husband and children. Hal and Rosalind are the sort of characters that historical romance readers long for. They are well suited, despite the refusal of either to act upon their dreams of more than a brief,erotic, sexual affair. The secondary characters of Hal's adorable sister and her loving husband are a target; their very presence a virtual bright spot and a wonderful compliment to Hal and Rosalind. Hal is one of the most sensual heroes ever written. He is smooth and polished, always hiding the physical and emotional scars of his vicious childhood. Rosalind is a sophisticated woman, tall, beautiful and full-bodied. Evil characters are ruthlessly so, with Ms. Whiteside deciding in the end who amongst them is redeemable and who is not. This book is a must-read for lovers of well-written historical romance. <br /> <br />Courtesy Laurie/Romance Junkies.	2005-07-01
US	51791250	RCQHRCMP5BD2C	0758210043	264576037	Star Quality	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Fun, lighthearted, steamy	Once in a Blue Moon by Lori Foster  Stan Tucker has the ability to read minds. This ability is intensified during every blue moon. Stan feels as if he has been cursed, until he reads the mind of book store owner Jenna Rowan.  Jenna has some very explicit thoughts about Stan, but with two children she is wary of entering into a new relationship. Stan has been interested in Jenna since his move to Delicious six months prior, and with Jenna's thoughts opened up to him, he decides to act on his desire. While Stan is wooing Jenna, he gives careful consideration to Jenna's childrens' feelings for him and his relationship with their mother.    This is a very sensual story with very realistic characters and a mother's love.     Moon Magnetism by Lucy Monroe  Blake Hawthorne's repeated requests for a meeting with Ivy Kendall, the manager of the inn in Delicious, have all been ignored. Ivy has an intensely magnetic aura and during every blue moon electronic devices around her are completely destroyed. When Blake comes to the inn to face her in person about renovating the inn to include the most up to date technology, Ivy prepares to leave, knowing that she will wreck all of the new computers. Ivy can't convince Blake that she has these powers, even though all of his high tech tools are ruined after being near her.  Ivy and Blake cannot deny that there is a sexual pull between them, but Blake still has a job to do in convincing Ivy that they are indeed compatible and need to be together.     Blake is one of those males who loves to take care of the one he loves.     Moonstruck by Dianne Castell  Julia Simon makes a wish on her way out of the courthouse in Delicious after her final divorce hearing, resulting in a humiliating situation for her no good ex-husband. PI Marc Adams, who worked with Julia in gathering evidence to make the case for her divorce, fell for Julia.  Julia makes another wish for a date with Marc, followed by a wish for a night of hot sex. Both of them have their wish granted when these wishes are granted. Julia is sure that Marc's interest in her will pass with the blue moon. Marc has to convince Julia that his feelings for her are real and Julia has unintentional wishes that have her best friend headed for disaster to correct.    This is a lighthearted story with a sensual wallop. These characters are as comfortable as family and the secondary characters add a great deal to the story.    All three tales in this anthology are great fun with just a touch of fantasy and I give it a strong recommendation.	2005-05-30
US	51791250	R11NVNTLD2IG6H	0451215028	234738357	Seeing Red (Signet Eclipse)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Sizzling Romantic Suspense	As a teenager, Summer Abrams narrowly escaped death in a fire at a warehouse owned by her family; her father was not as fortunate and lost his life. Summer left town as quickly as she could after she recovered, never to return.  Her best friend was Joe Walker; he had always loved Summer and wanted more than just friendship with her. When a second fire occurs in the same warehouse some twelve years later, Summer's mother asks her to come home to help her deal with the aftermath, leaving Summer to do some soul-searching. Joe still loves Summer, a fact that he cannot ignore once he sees her again. When the two of them team up in an attempt to solve the mystery of the fires, new flames are kindled. Joe is reluctant to trust Summer with his heart, out of fear that she will once again break it by leaving.  Summer is equally reluctant to offer herself to completely to Joe. <br /> <br />Jill Shalvis pens the most amazing characters. She is always able to capture their joy and pain, and every emotion in between. This is an incredible series with great detail and creativity.  These characters worm their way into your thoughts for a long time after you finish reading. Her characters are written with little quirks and imperfections that make it hard to remember that they are simply characters in a book.  The cast surrounding Joe and Summer are equally wonderful and they are imperative to the story.  A high recommendation for Seeing Red comes very easily.	2005-05-29
US	51791250	R3CP9H1BKL3XR4	0758211120	442539188	Larger Than Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Unbelievably good	Mick Savin, after being caught deep in Spectra territory, is beaten and left for dead. Lucky for Mick, Neva Case ventures by, sees his dog alongside the road and stops to investigate. She manages to get Mick to a clinic for medical attention, literally saving his life. Neva brings Mick to her home to recuperate from his injuries; along with him came a strong curiosity about Neva and the secrets she is obviously keeping. Neva finds Mick intriguing and while she doesn't quite believe his reasons for being in the middle of nowhere in Texas, she is increasingly aware of the maleness surrounding him. Neither is aware of the danger that is headed their way.  <br /> <br />Alison Kent has given us some incredible characters in the past five books in this series; this book is no exception. The air around Mick and Neva practically sizzles when they are together and the stories that surround the secondary characters are deeply moving and thought-provoking. This book is a wonderful continuation of this series, but has the ability to stand its own. Alison Kent remains at the top of her game with Larger than Life.	2005-05-15
US	51791250	R3JU2CQL823RLV	0821775146	137664794	Jamie (Visitation, Book 5)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Satisfying ending for a wonderful series	Jamie Creed has spent the better part of a decade in the seclusion of the mountains above Visitation, North Carolina. He practically lives as a recluse, his life a quiet existence that is very lonely. The townspeople of Visitation are very fond of Jamie, a fondness that he has difficulty accepting. Trust does not come easy to Jamie Creed. He does not know how to react to their attentions; he understands how to attempt to return them even less. When a beautiful redhead intrudes on his mountain, his keen abilities tell him that she is in desperate need of his help. Faith is thankful when she realizes that she has finally found Jamie, but he is not pleased to see her. Jamie has been unable to put his painful past behind him, regardless of the support of his friends. Jamie and Faith embark very quickly on a sensual relationship. He has never before experienced feelings like those he has for Faith. When a threat from Faith's past returns, Jamie is the only person who can save her. With Jamie, Lori Foster has written the story of the man whose appearance in previous books in this series has made readers eagerly anticipate his story. He is well worth the wait. Jamie is a complicated man with intense emotions. Faith is the fiery-haired beauty who is determined to love him. Appearances of all of the characters from previous books in this series are a bonus and serve to make this a story of true friendship, complimenting a very warm, tender, sensuous love story.	2005-05-15
US	51791250	RUI8KIANHTD92	0446614262	799930024	To Love a Thief (Warner Forever)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Wonderfully written historical	Gideon Cole inherited something from his father that he could very well have done without. The overwhelming debt that his father left was eventually paid in full, one creditor at a time.  <br /> <br />Gideon is an excellent barrister, but after paying his father's debts, combined with the fact that he does not collect fees from many of his clients, he is not in a favorable financial situation. Gideon is obsessed with his \\"master plan\\" and one important detail in that plan is wooing Lady Constance and making her his wife. Lady Constance's father is in a position to aid in the advancement of Gideon's political career, making her an even more attractive marriage prospect. He finds himself in competition for her hand with another suitor with a much fatter purse. <br /> <br />Lily Masters picks pockets in order to provide food and shelter for her ten-year-old sister, Alice and herself.  Though she successfully picks Gideon's pocket watch, he catches a glimpse of her.  Her next attempt was not so successful and she is caught in the act. Gideon happens to be nearby and rescues her by buying her freedom from her \\"victim\\" with his last thirty pounds, the very amount that he intended to use to purchase the townhouse that Constance was so very fond of. While Lily does appear to be an unlikely thief, Gideon deems that she could be extremely useful as the object of his attentions, thinking that Lady Constance will become jealous and find him more attractive. With that in mind, Gideon enlists the help of others in setting out to turn Lily into a real lady, placing her and Alice in residence with his Uncle Edward.  <br /> <br />This is where this book takes on a completely new life!  Gideon has no idea what he is getting himself into with the likes of Lily and Alice and the two of them quickly begin to worm their way into his heart. Unfortunately, his dreams have been in place for so long in the form of his master plan, that he resists these threatening emotions. <br /> <br />Ms.Long has written an excellent historical novel with TO LOVE A THIEF. These characters are charming and her descriptions of them, their personalities, and the surroundings are incredible. The relationship between Lily and Gideon is the very substance of every young woman's romantic dreams; the relationship between Lily and Uncle Edward is touching and incredibly heartwarming. Readers will be pulled into this book from the very start. I am sure that Ms. Long has a long, successful writing career ahead of her and I plan to get a copy of her first book, THE RUNAWAY DUKE, as well as all that will follow TO LOVE A THIEF. It is easy for me to recommend this book to lovers of historical romance; there will be no disappointments.  <br /> <br />Courtesy of Laurie/Romance Junkies	2005-05-10
US	51791250	R1AUKHC5SXOFXW	0425202674	747166832	A Date with the Other Side	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lighthearted and fun	Shelby Tucker is living the simple life in Cuttersville, Ohio. She doesn't believe in ghosts, although she runs a ghost tour business. Boston Macnamara has been sent from Chicago to Cuttersville for inspection of the Samson Plastics plant. He rents a home from Shelby's grandmother for his stay in Cuttersville. Shelby, while conducting a ghost tour of the house that Boston is (unbeknownst to her) renting, walks in on the naked, sleeping Boston. The attraction between the two is instantaneous. The ghosts that inhabited the house that Boston was renting begin to make themselves known whenever Shelby and Boston are together. The two of them finally give in, deciding to enjoy each other until such time as Boston has to return to Chicago. Neither anticipated falling in love. When Boston assumes that Shelby will follow him back to Chicago, heartache is certain to follow. This is a lighthearted read that is very entertaining. Shelby is simply adorable and Boston is the perfect match for her. The secondary characters, including the ghosts, are a pleasure. Erin McCarthy offers a soft touch of the paranormal, and an abundance of laughs and sensuality. I highly recommend A DATE WITH THE OTHER SIDE. <br />	2005-05-03
US	51791250	R1WCQ1J1T0GH	0425201104	309945034	Vision in Blue (Sinclair Family Saga)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sweet historical romance	Gemma Smith has spent her entire life wondering where she came from and where she belongs, having known only a foundling home and later an academy for young women as her home. Gemma cannot stop wondering who has been paying her way over the years. After she receives a letter from her solicitor that she has a brother, Lord Gabriel Sinclair, in London. Gemma sets out to find and meet him, unsure of how she will be received.  In her travels to London, she befriends Louise Crookshanks who quickly takes Gemma under her wing. Once in London, Gemma's meeting with Lord Sinclair is delayed as he is away from home.  Gemma sneaks into the foundling home in search of information about her benefactor. This illicit search runs her quite literally into retired naval officer Matthew Fallon.  <br /> <br />Captain Fallon has sneaked into the foundling home in his search for a younger sister who had been sent there years before after the death of their mother while he was at sea. Gemma and Matthew share an immediate attraction and they begin a quest for the information that could change both of their lives forever. <br /> <br />Nicole Byrd has penned an appealing book that tells that tale of two young women; the two stories mesh wonderfully.  Readers witness Gemma's emergence from a solitary existence into that of a true social butterfly, surrounded by many who love and care about her. That love is well deserved and is very satisfying.  The secondary story of Louisa Crookshanks is a wonderful bonus that hugely compliments Gemma's story without distracting from it.  This is an extremely well written historical with appealing characters whose personalities and stories are described in rich detail.  I recommend this book to all lovers of historical romance. <br /> <br />Courtesy of Laurie/Romance Junkies <br />	2005-04-12
US	51791250	R4O4U5EUGUIVJ	0425201120	923876358	I Spy (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great romantic suspense	Aimee Devlin, former FBI agent, now a partner with two friends in the Partners in Crime security firm, has the uncanny ability to make herself blend into the woodwork, enabling her to observe and gather information in a variety of situations.     Her latest job has her doing just that as she investigates the employees of McConnell Aerospace, in search of the one who is being bribed for information by a rival company. Aimee is immediately suspicious of Horace \\"Race\\" Gardner, the company's new CFO, whose never-ending quest for company information marks him as questionable. As it turns out, Race is a CIA undercover, who is likewise investigating McConnell's employees, but he is on the lookout for someone who is making a deal with international arms dealer Nic Sabre.  Once the two realize that they are on the same side, Aimee is hired by the CIA to infiltrate the luxurious private compound of Sabre. Aimee immediately falls in love with Nic's daughter, Josie, but cannot allow herself to trust anyone else at the compound.  She does manage limited contact with Race, who wants to scrub the mission as he begins to fear for Aimee's safety, but Aimee refuses and convinces him that they must follow through with their original plan.      The one thing Aimee does not plan on is Nic Sabre falling in love with her.  Barely able to stomach him or his pursuit of her, Aimee has to force herself to tolerate his very presence as well as his romantic advances.  Ms. Ford has penned a wonderful story of romantic suspense, bravely taking her heroine to extremes that others would not dare, raising one question after another as you turn the pages. These sophisticated, intelligent characters are extremely easy to care about.  Twists and turns abound and the \\"bad guys\\" are truly evil and generate an abundance of chills. The love scenes are very tastefully done and add just the right amount of heat.    This is without a doubt one of the most creative and enjoyable romantic suspense books that Ihave read for quite some time and I can very easily give it my highest recommendation.     Courtesy Laurie/Romance Junkies	2005-04-04
US	51791250	R2B0PJNRYT6YBK	0821772961	864544891	Deep Freeze (West Coast Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Lisa Jackson never disappoints	Former actress Jenna Hughes has moved to a remote area of Oregon with her two teen daughters to escape the mess that Hollywood has made of her life. A failed marriage, an overzealous fan turned stalker, and the tragic death of her sister on a movie set made her long for a quiet, simple existence.  Shane Carter is the sheriff of Fall's Crossing, Oregon.  He is battling demons of his own and the very job that he loves so much is to blame. Jenna is struggling to maintain control of her sixteen year old daughter whose boyfriend has her sneaking out in the middle of the night and experimenting with drugs and alcohol. Her younger daughter hates school and is finding it hard to make friends.    When the remains of an unknown young woman are found in a wooded area outside of town, area residents are more curious than suspicious and aren't especially concerned. When local young women begin disappearing, and movie memorabilia that Jenna has donated to the local theater starts to disappear, the sheriff realizes that the situation is much worse than anyone had imagined.  Shane Carter finds himself increasingly thinking about Jenna, but she is a beautiful woman and most of the men in town are fascinated by her.  Jenna is equally attracted to Shane and feels a physical pull whenever she is in his presence. When Jenna discovers personal items missing from her home and chilling poetry left in her bedroom, they realize that they are dealing with something much more sinister than just a lovesick fan.     Ms. Jackson lets you believe that you know who this deranged madman is, for a while anyway, until the next twist when she sends you in a different direction, and another townsperson begins to appear suspect. By the end of the book you are helplessly on the edge of your seat, anxiously awaiting the fear that is sure to strike when you turn the page. She has done an excellent job writing the teen daughters. Their comments, expressions and emotions are right on the mark with those ofany teenage girl, regardless of economic status or location. The romance in this book is sweet and the love scenes are very tastefully written, but not overly sensual.    I give this book my very highest recommendation; you most definately should get your hands on a copy.  I am already anticipating Lisa Jackson's next release.    Courtesy of Laurie/romancejunkies.com	2005-03-26
US	51791250	R1GTPXW3ZBK9DV	0758206763	221668190	The McKenzie Artifact	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	True Grit	I read this book not expecting it to live up to The Beach Alibi, my favorite in this series. It proved me wrong and delivered a healthy wallop; definitely the most earthy, most gritty and the edgiest of this series to date. Eli McKenzie is attempting to rescue young girls who have been kidnapped and are headed for an uncertain future. Stella Banks is on a mission to retrieve the missing daughter of her housekeeper when she herself is taken captive, necessitating Eli's interference with her captors in order to keep her safe. Eli and Stella are naturals together and they go together like a hand and glove, perhaps the most compatible couple in this series. Thankfully there are continuing stories yet to come from Ms. Kent's incredibly creative mind, I am eagerly anticipating each one!	2005-02-16
US	51791250	R1BKLUGUSA1IVA	0373836422	204581271	Men Of Courage II: Three New Stories	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Men of Courage II - romance done right, very sweet	Men of Courage II contains stories by three of the heavy hitters in women's romance today - Lori Foster, Donna Kauffman and Jill Shalvis.  <br /> <br />Lori Foster's AN HONORABLE MAN has Lt. Col. Hamilton Wulf trying to win the love of Liv Avery, the only woman he has ever wanted to call his own. Liv has reservations because of Ham's dedication to the Air Force, the same dedication that kept her father from being a part of her life. Ham is so sweet in his determined pursuit of Liv that you can't help but hope she will give in and accept his love. <br /> <br />Donna Kauffman's BLOWN AWAY gives an inside look at storm chasers Cooper Harrison and Marty McKenna, two very gutsy and determined individuals who shared intimacies years before. The two of them have never forgotten each other; it seems that fate is determined to bring them together once again. <br /> <br />Jill Shalvis' contribution of PERILOUS WATERS is the story of copter pilot Wyatt Stone and reporter Leah Taylor. The two of them were sweethearts several years before and Leah broke Wyatt's heart when she left for higher aspirations in New York City. Now she's back, and Wyatt wishes she had stayed in New York . . . or does he? After saving her life during a violent storm, he's not so sure. <br /> <br />These three stories are all very sweet with comfortable characters; all three have just enough heat to keep things hot. I am sure you won't be disappointed, these three authors always please their readers.	2005-02-05
US	51791250	R2SB41ZVGX8B30	075820843X	859045061	Mouth To Mouth	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An exceptionally well written book	I am going to skip the narrative as it has been covered very well in previous reviews. I can honestly say that Mouth to Mouth is one of the very best books I have read in the past year. Laurel's deafness is excellently written, without awkwardness and with incredible attention to detail. Laurel and Russ are two of the most genuine, comfortable, and downright likable characters ever written, and I found myself wanting to read more about them. The secondary characters are a riot and their antics add a great deal to the story.  I give this book my very highest recommendation.	2005-01-05
US	51791250	R1DYBFP8I9QM54	0758206747	916848221	The Beach Alibi	Books	5	2	3	N	N	She's done it again!	Alison Kent has penned yet another winner with The Beach Alibi.  This book is my absolute favorite of this series, so far that is. Kelly John and Emma are perfect for each other, and the sexual heat they exude is a wonderful compliment to the intrigue and suspense in this latest episode about the spy guys of The Smithson Group. Characters from the previous books make appearances, but the characters that we haven't heard much from are a huge attraction as well. I cannot wait for the McKenzie Artifact's release; it looks to promise the edge and intensity that Alison Kent is known for.	2005-01-05
US	51791250	R8V99RMBHQ4AZ	0758206720	920763516	The Samms Agenda	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Alison Kent - taking care of her readers once again.	The Samms Agenda: The third installment in the Smithson Group series by Alison Kent. Julian Samms is assigned the task of protecting Katrina Flurry from a very determined hitman. Julian is haunted by the memories of unspeakable violence in his past and it doesn't appear that he will ever get beyond it. Katrina is a beautiful, intelligent, witty and sensual woman who isn't at all the bit of fluff that Julian first thought her to be. The two of them hit the ground running in an attempt to stay alive; with intrigue, suspense and passion, this book will keep you glued to your seat until the finish. This has been an exceptional series so far and I highly recommend giving yourself the pleasure of reading all five books in this series.	2004-11-12
US	51791250	R39JO0G8O2W2TA	0758206704	410075075	The Shaughnessey Accord	Books	5	4	7	N	N	The Shaughnessey Accord - a great book from Alison Kent	The Shaughnessey Accord, the second book in the Smithson Group series by Alison Kent is a great book, a wonderful continuation of this series. It has characters who are realistically funny, extremely likable, gutsy and dedicated, in scenes taking them from an intensely erotic first kiss to the terror of facing certain death. Ms. Kent does a wonderful job describing the feelings and emotions that her characters are experiencing.  I highly recommend this book, as well as this entire series, and think readers will be best served by reading them in order, although it is not necessary.	2004-10-17
US	51791250	R1FDT14XAUQT20	0758203403	872865252	Just a Hint--Clint (Visitation, Book 4)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Typical Lori Foster - a great  book!	Lori Foster has given us yet another great book about the much-loved residents of Visitation! This is a very enjoyable book with characters who are easy to care about and secondary characters whose stories have already been told as well as those with tales yet to be told. This book is deserving of 5+ stars.  <br />	2004-09-21
US	51791250	R1XSRGG62WN9DB	0758206682	249512530	The Bane Affair	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A+ for Alison Kent's THE BANE AFFAIR	Alison Kent has written The Bane Affair with a different style from her previous works; a style that results in an excellent book full of intrigue, techno savvy, suspense and her trademark intelligent, independent characters. Ms. Kent doesn't skimp on the steam, either. This is the first in a series of five books that will I feel will project Alison Kent several notches.  Long-time fans won't be surprised, they have seen it coming. I give this book the highest of recommendations, 5 stars just doesn't do it justice.	2004-09-21
US	51791250	R135LUDA0D6Y38	0821775138	864591503	When Bruce Met Cyn (Visitation, Book 3)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Another great book from Lori Foster	I will keep this simple w/out repeating descriptives. Ms. Foster has done a terrific job of making these characters feel like people you know and care about; they are very well written and realistic. Ms. Foster has taken a touchy subject and written an endearing love story in which the secondary characters make an equally strong impact on the story. I look forward to reading the untold stories and have no doubt that I will enjoy them as much as I did this book and those prior. As with any Lori Foster story, I give a strong recommendation. <br />	2004-07-29
US	51791250	R1UU5QY4JR6OWS	0758207743	27431812	Bad Boys in Black Tie	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Bad Boys Indeed!	Good With His Hands by fav Lori Foster was very enjoyable with believable characters who were fun and easy to like. The secondary characters were also interesting; the descriptions of Cassidy's parents are, I think, reminiscent of everyone's parents. This was a fun, easy read with sweet characters and a warmly satisfying ending. Miss Extreme Congeniality by Erin McCarthy offers a fun look at the lives of two FBI agents who secretly wanteach other. CJ White has an autistic son that her co-workers don't know about and an ex-husband who left them because of the handicap; she is wary of letting any man too close. Wyatt Maddock wanted all of CJ - her body, her love, and her son, to be a part of his life. Hot sex and tender dialogue bring these two characters together - a very pleasing read. Last Call by Morgan Leigh is a real steamer! Hot characters who knew what they wanted and weren't afraid to go for it, until a misunderstanding comes between them and threatens to keep them apart. Love does prevail in this charming story; I found myself wishing for more pages when I reached the end. These three very talented ladies have done it again with a very enjoyable anthology that was fun and easy to read. Kudos!	2004-07-11
US	51791250	R31HUQ6B8C5IT7	0758207727	736286586	Perfect for the Beach (Dean Brothers)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Perfect reading for anywhere!	This was a fun book with feel-good novellas by some great authors. Lori Foster's Some Like It Hot has Dr. Cary Rupert trying to prove to Nora Chilton that he is the perfect man for her. Cary is very convincing to the reluctant widow Nora of how the two of them are perfect for each other.  There's no way she could resist. In One Wilde Weekend, Janelle Denison brings us Alex Wilde, of the infamous Wilde family, who wants a permanent commitment from girlfriend Dana Reed. A hot read in which Alex is very creative in proving his love to Dana. Blue Crush by Erin McCarthy has a topless Dr. Sara Davis saved by lifeguard Kyle Vanderhoff. The steam rises quickly between these two. MaryJanice Davidson's contribution is My Thief, wherein Robin Filkins and responsible accountant John Crusher are brought together under unusual circumstances and with lots of humor; in the process they fall in love. This was my first story by Ms. Davidson, but it won't be my last. Another first for me was author Kayla Perrin whose Hot and Bothered has Trey Arnold trying to save his marriage to estranged wife Jenna Maxwell. Jenna is hesitant to try again with Trey, but he is very willing to please! Very well done.  Morgan Leigh completes the book with Murphy's Law. Kat Murphy is in love with her boss, Sam Parrish, and quits her job after deciding that he will never get over his deceased wife. Sam will do whatever it takes to prove to Kat that he wants her in his life permanently. A heartwarming story.  This was a very enjoyable book by some of my favorite authors and two that were new to me. My only complaint would be that the stories weren't long enough - I wasn't ready for any of them to end. Great reading for the beach or anywhere - wonderful job, ladies!	2004-06-09
US	51791250	R145Y54KH7ZBZU	082177512X	552953250	Say No to Joe? (Visitation, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A LIGHTHEARTED READ	I enjoyed Say No to Joe? very much.  No, it wasn't terribly deep or terribly suspenseful, but it was lighthearted and fun.  Sometimes children in a story tend to bog it down, but these children were well written and Luna and Joe's compassion for and dedication to them was touching.  I enjoyed Joe and Luna's refusal to acknowledge their true feelings; with both finally giving in, of course, at the end for the requisite happy ending.	2003-10-15
US	51791250	R12XFGC5T4UEAQ	0804119805	396185159	The Prince of Pleasure (Notorious)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another great book from Nicole Jordan!	I found The Prince of Pleasure to be another shining example of the creative talents of Nicole Jordan.  She has yet again taken us into the past with her usual flair for detail; I closed my eyes and the scenes came to life in my mind.  My heart ached with Dare and Julienne's pain and alternately raced through many sensuous love scenes. Following these characters through their pain and pleasure to a happy ending was very satisfying.  I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys sensuous historicals.  With Nicole Jordan's ability to write such hot historicals, I wonder what she would do with a contemporary?  Whew!  Just a thought.	2003-08-28
