US	51799122	R236BBWERQ0R8D	0740739603	195522135	Living Wabi Sabi: The True Beauty of Your Life	Books	5	82	84	N	Y	Simple to read; hard to live	Taro Gold's beautiful book is a visual delight with a profound message. Each page is washed in a tint of color; some pages have powerful quotes written on beautiful backgrounds. But the message is not sweet or simple.  <br /> <br />Living a Wabi-Sabi life means accepting your faults as well as your strengths, accepting that you will never be perfect and still keeping yourself open to being a work in progress. It means living a joy unrelated to your income. It means sweeping your life free of blame for others, and living instead with the responsibility of choosing your own happiness or misery. <br /> <br />You can read the book in a single sitting, but don't. Read a few pages at a time, and see how the concept flows into your life. Don't be surprised if you begin to look at your life differently. One of the characters, Obaa-san, says, \\"No matter how it may seem at the time, the core of your suffering is not your inconsiderate partner, your demanding boss, your insufficient bank balance. . .The root of your suffering is found internally, in the limitations you place on yourself.\\" <br /> <br />This beautiful, small book holds a profound truth that can transform your life. Read it, then live it. You will be changed in wonderful ways.	2005-04-22
US	51799122	RP4C7OVB29FIP	1886284253	989455010	Knockout Presentations (revised 2009 edition)	Books	5	51	55	N	Y	Scared of Presentations? This is the one book you need	When I saw the hyped-up title, \\"Knockout Presentations: How to Deliver Your Message with Power, Punch and Pizzaz,\\" I winced. But I needed to find a book to teach from that really covered a lot of ground, and DiResta carries through on the promise. If you hate hype, you'll love the book. It delivers what the title promises. <br />If you want to buy just one book to give you real help from preparing the presentation, through conquering fear, breathing techniques, using your hands, creating useful and easy-to-manage props and checking the room before you present, this is the one book that will give you all that help and more. <br />To make it even more useful, it's jammed with tips and hints to help you succeed. It is never preachy or pedantic.  <br />After each major section, there are checklists to go over to make sure you focus on the most important parts of the previous material.  <br />Still more good news: The table of contents and the index are clear and to the point--you can find what you need and concentrate on just what you need help with.  <br />Like a website, there are icons for exercises and case studies. Like the best of print books, there are fill-in boxes for those who prefer a workbook to just reading, and margins big enough to take notes in. <br />I use this book to teach, but it's an ideal book for self-study, too. <br />Need to lose your fear of public speaking? Need to give better presentations? Buy, read, re-read, follow this book and you will be on your way to success.   --Q	2004-08-28
US	51799122	R3U7480HK1NDWL	1931499276	54857196	Beadwork Creates Beaded Beads	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Fast, fun and fabulous	BeadWork has created a number of these slim books with tempting pictures and tightly edited instructions.  With Beaded Beads, even the beginning beader can have a lot of fun creating usable pieces in a short time. <br />Jean Campbell deserves a lot of credit for keeping the information to just the facts. Occasionally, one more diagram would be useful, but I'm a slow learner without lots of pictures.  The beginner should know that there are two help sections in the back of the book--'Tips' and 'Stitches'. <br />The sections are a real plus. With these instructions, even a novice bead addict can produce the beads shown, and advanced beaders can move on from these instructions to create their own work. <br />New projects start on the right page, with the glorious picture on the left. Great layout, type you can read, and a wide variety of projects make this a book you need for your studio. Only change I'd make it to wire-bind the book so that it lies flat when in use.   --Q	2004-08-28
US	51799122	R1OZVU14QJDF4V	0873495578	749612405	Art Clay Silver & Gold: 18 Unique Jewelry Pieces to Make in a Day	Books	5	94	95	N	Y	Clear, Inspiring, Gets You Started	Those who are looking to start using Art Clay (or Precious Metal Clay) will love this book. Advanced workers won't be left behind either. This book does something few books do--it gives instructions for BOTH beginners and experienced gold and silver clay artists. <br />This paperback has another great advantage: it starts with a list of supplies you will need, closely followed by a list of supplies that make working with Art Clay easier. For the reader, that means that you won't be caught on Sunday afternoon missing some tool you need to start.  <br />And even better, it tells you exactly why you should get one tool over another. For example, Trutty reommends a wood ring mandrel over a metal one. Why? The metal one expands and distorts the ring size.  Who knew?  <br />The instructions come with lots of pictures and alternatives. There are basic project followed by the same project but worked in a way that will satisfy people who need a challenge. <br />What if lacy, intricate projects are not for you? No problem. With the instructions, you can take off on your own and be as intricate or as simple as you like. <br />It includes fascinating facts on oxidizing, using glass and metals with Art Clay, and techniques and short cuts that make using this clay-turns-to-precious-metal fun and interesting.   --Q	2004-08-28
US	51799122	RB8GUD8Q97CV8	1931499152	16299065	Netted Beadwork (Beadwork How-To)	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	Netting takes center stage at last!	Truth in reviewing: I am a bead junkie. I have many, many books on beading, jewelry making, design, and bead histories. And yet I am glad I bought Diane Fitzgerald's Netted Beadwork. Netting is often swept under the carpet of more complicated off-loom weaving, but it has great possibilities and this book proves it.<BR>Netted Beadwork starts with a brief history of netting and some great pictures. That's commendable, as is the brevity of that section. This is a how-to book, and most of the book focuses on that. There is a tool and technique section that is brief, to-the-point and useful without slowing you down.<BR>For the rest of the book, there are beautiful color pictures and clear diagrams of how to make the pieces, along with instructions in writing. The diagrams are clear for the most part, and the thread path instructions show variations immediately. That means that once you understand how netting works and begin to wonder &quot;could I do it this way . . .?&quot; you'll see the answer. A nice touch, indeed.<BR>Then there are the netting instructions for those of us who are wild at heart--freeform netting, layered netting, and projects for those of us who mix beads in a palette and love to wear them that way. <BR>For the formal and traditional beaders, there are many projects, from ornaments to pouches, and yes, the never-say-die amulet bag. But the misers' pouch, also in the book, has more visual interest and appeal.<BR>The gallery is as it should be--full color, one project per page so you can soak in the color and design elements, and generous in scope and amount.<BR>Also nice is the index, which so many books don't have any more. It makes projects and techniques easy to find.<BR>So why are there only four stars? The book leans a little too heavily on the standard netting projects and less on the adventuresome that I expected. I would have liked to see a few really difficult, detailed projects mixed in (there are some in the gallery). And perhaps a few lessof the same style and a few more that explore new directions. <BR>But that's no reason not to buy and enjoy the book. You won't be able to browse without starting a project, and that's reason enought to buy it.	2004-03-21
US	51799122	R1Y86NQPRLIWJC	4889961283	242365641	Bead Fantasies: Beautiful, Easy-to-Make Jewelry (Bead Fantasies Series)	Books	4	185	187	N	Y	Color, design and ideas galore!	Over the years, I've come to love Japanese books because of their instructions. Certainly, they are not for everybody. But for beaders with a little experience, the thread path instructions will be enough. The instructions are printed in color, and each bead shape is shown, which makes a lot of sense. It took a while for me to figure out that the tiny black star indicates the start and the teeny black crescent moon indicates the end, but that wasn't a lot to overcome. <BR>There is a lot to like in this book:<BR>1. The different projects--bracelets, rings (lots of rings!), pendants for necklaces, necklaces in several lengths, eyeglass leashes, barrettes, even cell phone leashes--If you don't own a cell phone with a leash attachment, you can easily use the patterns for necklaces.<BR>2. The color photography and the color directions. Makes flipping through the book like a walk in the garden. Also makes the small-format-size book cost $18.00 in paperback.<BR>3. The additional information in the back on techniques and materials, all with lots of photographs.<BR>4. Once you learn the basic technique that Takako Samejima favors, you can zip through her ideas and start working on your own. I've found the circle-style weaving can be achieved with two needles, but using one as Samejima does makes the work easier.<BR>And a few things that can make a reader cranky:<BR>1. The book is perfect bound, so you will have to weight both sides down to follow a diagram.<BR>2. The pages on tools have tiny pictures, so you can't really tell crimping pliers from round-nose from cutters.<BR>3. The author seems to favor nylon filament, which, if it is fishing line, will disintegrate in five years or so. Use Nymo, Silamide, Fireline, or for the larger projects, SoftFlex.<BR>4.The instructions tell you to use your jewelry pliers to work with memory wire. Don't. Memory wire is steel and will damage most jewelry tools. Use hardware store tools or those especially designed for memory wire,<BR>Thebook is a treat and well worth the money for beginners with a little experience, intermediate beaders who want to expand their product line and advanced beaders who need a gallery to get their inspiration kick-started again.	2004-03-21
US	51799122	R27O66UPMRFP79	1401397514	891971809	The Five People You Meet in Heaven	Books	2	3	4	N	N	What you already know about heaven	The book tries hard to be touching and sincere. And it succeeds in doing that. But if you are hoping to expand your spirituality, explore your ideas of heaven, or, in fact, do anything else except read a soft book about a unknown topic and come away with a slightly gauzy, filmy view of heaven, buy another book. I read it because it got such enormous hype, a lesson I apparently haven't learned yet, and will probably meet again in heaven and have explained to me.<BR>It may be appropriate to read to a child of about six to eight, who is interested in knowing what happens when we die, if you are not an &quot;ashes to ashes&quot; kind of person.<BR>I'm just not the right person for slow-pitch, sweet heaven stories. The central theme is that five people in your life touched you in ways you didn't understand at the time, and that you touched others in way you didn't understand either. In heaven you understand it all. Connectivity explains the rest. I found it unsatisfying even as a simple, sweet story that teaches us to be kind to everyone. If I have to spend the first portion of eternity finding the five people and have them explain their connection to me, and the next part of eternity waiting for others to die so I can explain my part in their life, I'm not going to be buried in sturdy shoes and a good book--but not this one.	2004-03-16
US	51799122	R29RQ3YD02H4QJ	1579900933	332908703	Great Wire Jewelry: Projects & Techniques (Jewelry Crafts)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Still a great buy, three years later	I bought this book several years ago and reviewed it then. I used it to learn how to make some findings, then shelved it and forgot it. A few weeks ago, I needed to learn how to make chain mail. I went to the internet and downloaded several instructions, none of which I could understand, and many of which had pictures designed to discourage. All-black backgrounds, poorly focused rings, or color-coded tutorials so complex that the color legend needed a whole page on its own. Then I remembered that Great Wire Jewelry had chain mail instructions, and pulled it from the shelf.<BR>If you have trouble with printed instructions, give this book a try anyway. Between the very clear pictures and the very clear descriptions, even I, the chain-mail challenged, figured it out. And figured it out well enough to move through several more complicated weaves, gaining experience and courage as I went. For the $15 price I paid a few years ago, this book is certainly worth the price as a reference, an instructional tool, and, with its clear pictures, a nice design book as well.	2004-03-16
US	51799122	RJ7JXDMD6H6IA	0874778050	52717208	Fearless Creating: A Step-by-Step Guide To Starting and Completing Your Work of Art	Books	5	70	73	N	Y	Puts action in your creative traction	Maisel knows artists, whether they are writers, painters, dancers, musicians. And he knows what makes us tick, get stuck, frightened and give up. And he won't let us use a shred of an excuse. Thank goodness. Here is a book for the artist who wants to make meaning in life, work deep and see results. And while we are getting real, Maisel is there helping us plan, sell, and make money at it as well. Not for the faint of heart, or those who expect to be told that everything we do is wonderful and we are misunderstood. Wait, I take some of that back. This IS a book for the faint of heart, but not if you want to stay that way. This is a book for artists who are serious, who want to grow, who want to move forward every day. Maisel is never cruel, never patronizing, never so tough that you want to give up. This is a wonderful supportive book that makes you glad you decided NOT to make art your hobby while you got a &quot;real&quot; job. Maisel's book is filled with steps and exercises you can use for years, appreciating their flexibility as you do so.	2004-03-16
US	51799122	R99JCCLZUE3DL	1577311280	851420655	20 Communication Tips at Work: A Quick and Easy Guide to Successful Business Relationships	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Small book, big help	This 2001 book is still fresh and useful. The tips are easy to understand, but often not easy to achieve. (Example: &quot;Gossip carefully.&quot;)But Maisel doesn't abandon the reader. Every time the advice needs details, there they are. There are bulleted examples, 'clear' and 'unclear' examples, steps to practice and tips to polish the practice. The book is a slim 128 pages, and smaller than most paperbacks. Big print, too. The messages seem to be for a mix of people, and that's the only thing I'd change. Make one for managers, the others for up-and-comers. That way, there would be 20 more tips to lend employees a hand.	2004-03-16
US	51799122	RK04KS2TH4GWY	0974624705	793307931	Precious Metal Clay: Creative Projects for the Beginner	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Great place to start	PMC is such a tempting medium, and so intimidating. After all, you are working with fine silver, and it sounds like, well, FUN! Peggy Linial and Lindsay Stoms make sure it is fun from beginning to end. The wonderful aspect of this book is that is is for beginners--helpful, encouraging, and project-related. I'm sure there are some beginners who would rather spend a year doing research before touching PMC, but I'm not one of them. I wanted to get busy and make something. And this book encourages you to do just that. It keeps the projects simple, suggests tools that most beginners will have around, allows you to play and get better. It even has ways to use PMC at parties and fund-raisers. For someone who hasn't had fun in a long time, and wants to make something without needing a long ramp-up time or a lot of specialized training, get this book and start. You'll be hooked in no time!	2004-03-16
US	51799122	R2WEDZ08RYTB3P	1585420298	735845741	The Creativity Book: A Year's Worth of Inspiration and Guidance	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	Worth reading, doing, keeping, re-reading	Eric Maisel is a prolific writer with a penchant for helping artists. And this book is no exception. For those who have read Cameron's &quot;The Artist's Way,&quot; in the required number of weeks and wish there were other timed guides, Maisel's book is the answer. It's a year's worth of creative work, some gentle and imaginative, some kick-in-the-rear tough. I'll admit I read all the way through it, and I'll bet Maisel knew that most readers would. It's an interesting read that way, with Maisel's wry observations and self-deprecating humor serving as another level of inspiration. There is a lot hiding in this book, waiting to be discovered. The quotes in the scholar's margins create their own interesting commentary. Use this book to dip into when you are bored, stymied, frustrated, lonely or stuck. You won't come away feeling the same way. You might not want to do every exercise Maisel suggests, but imagining them might be enough to give you creative traction again.	2004-03-16
US	51799122	R1ZGIEKM34CCF8	1579903010	769261598	Creative Metal Clay Jewelry: Techniques, Projects, Inspiration	Books	5	62	62	N	Y	Drool, dream, do, repeat	If you want just one book on PMC that covers techniques, tempts with beautifully photographed pieces, is clearly written and, when followed, gives you good result, get this book. From the beginning of the book, you share Wire's enthusiasm for the medium. By the end of chapter two, you want to start.<BR>Just in time, Wire helps you out by providing a clear introduction to tools, equipment and the space you need to work. But wait, there's more! A satisfying and visually pleasing book of projects, from easy to challenging, will keep you busy for a long, creative while.<BR>From the beginner to the experienced enthusiast, PMC lovers will find projects that they can practice on. Best of all, with the techniques shown and the gallery to drool over, this book becomes a starting point for your own work and outlet for the considerable creative energy this book inspires.<BR>A great plus to this book is the variety of projects--earrings, bracelets, pendants, rings, pins, beads and sculptural pieces are all covered in enough detail to fire you enthusiasm and whet your need to move forward with your own ideas.	2004-03-16
US	51799122	R2B1MD683SRKMQ	1883010993	36326115	Beading with Herringbone Stitch (Beadwork How-To)	Books	5	30	35	N	Y	A Must-Have	Vicki Star is a pro at writing &quot;how-to&quot; books--the books are clear, easy to understand, and filled with the joy of beading.  The first six were self-published (and co-authored with Jeanette Cook, her partner in &quot;Beady Eyed Women&quot;) and contained excellent information, but once Star teamed up with Interweave Press, the books became the benchmark for visual information display. <BR>   &quot;Beading With Herringbone Stitch&quot; is excllent in its description of instructions and techniques. Star does something that other authors would do well to follow--she explains the &quot;why&quot; of her instructions. It helps adult learners (or slow learners, and I'm one of them) come to an understanding of technique much faster. Star is also honest. When you are supposed to wind up with &quot;a twisty string of Vs&quot; she says just that. What a relief!<BR>    There are two different starts and descriptions for flat, round, and tubular. You'll learn how to increase and decrease, both in the middle and at the edge. And you'll learn the difference results of each. <BR>   Illustrations are big and easy to understand. Added beads are shown in a totally different color than beads in place (this was a problem in the peyote book).  <BR>   &quot;Beading With Herringbone Stitch&quot; follows the format of &quot;Beading With Peyote Stitch&quot; in organization. A Table of Contents and Index helps readers find what they need. There is a 26-page, full color Gallery, a section of five Projects, both easy and challenging, and lots of color photos. <BR>  The book starts with a history of the stitch, a vital and often ignored book section that helps the reader understand the cultural links to the stitch.<BR>    The Supplies section is carefully presented. The stitch is shown worked up with the same color beads in different sizes and shapes, to lend understanding to bead selection.<BR>    No book has enough room to put all the text on the same page with each illustration, butthis one makes an effort. Flipping back does happen, but not often enough to be distracting. <BR>   If you are interested in Herringbone Stitch, are having difficulty with it, or want a reason to learn it, buy the book. It's a must-have for your beading library.	2002-01-28
US	51799122	R31A266HARFBH5	0679767789	556287238	Lost In Place: Growing Up Absurd in Suburbia	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	Coming-of-age novel, lite.	Growing up in the suburbs can be cruel, tough, weird, and it generally takes too long. Salzman's coming of age story shortens the agony into less than 300 pages of well-told, self-deprecating vignettes. The reader can wince, smile and stay safely on the outside.<BR>   Salzman's writing is not powerful enough to draw the reader in, but it is true enough to keep the reader interested. It has the same detached, keep-your-distance feel as &quot;Lying Awake,&quot; which Salzman did better to avoided in &quot;Iron and Silk&quot; and &quot;The Soloist.&quot;<BR>    Some of his stories have no conclusion or point, but they don't seem to need one. Witnessing the sometimes wrenching transition of boy to almost-man is a satisfaction in itself.	2002-01-28
US	51799122	R2W056JT7T7DRQ	1579902278	518531957	The New Macrame: Contemporary Knotted Jewelry and Accessories	Books	3	74	78	N	Y	Not enough &quot;new&quot; to make it worth buying.	When a book is called &quot;The New Macrame,&quot; a reader has a right to expect either entirely different knotting techniques or totally different projects. What is new about this book is that it contains many more color pictures than previous macrame books. It also has several updated looks in jewelry--for example, there is a &quot;Y&quot; necklace style, a ring and earrings made of wire instead of hemp, and an aroma therapy bottle necklace.<br />  However, if I squinted a little, that aromatherapy bottle cover could have been a plant hanger of the 1960s. And the &quot;Y&quot; necklace still has it's roots in the 1960s hairy hemp and big ol' E beads. And that's my main objection to the book. It's not really new.<br />  The square knot, half knot, lark's head, and half hitch aren't new. Using wire is new, but one ring and one set of earrings doesn't qualify the book as &quot;new.&quot; Showing the old knots with new materials--Conso, Stringth, or colored art wire would have given the reader a useful comparison. But that isn't in the book.<br />  The descriptions are shown, both with a line drawing and a photograph, and for the person with experience, that's enough. But for someone new to macrame, each knot diagram could have had one more stage, half way through, shown. This book makes the mistake many user's manuals make--the writers don't pay attention to the needs of the audience. If it's a book for beginners, more steps are needed. If it's a book for advanced knot-tiers, give us advanced projects.<br />  The titles of the projects are also off-putting. Who wants to make a &quot;Yuppie Puppy Leash and Collar&quot;? And why would you call an earring pattern &quot;Take Two Earrings and Call Me in The Morning&quot;? or a belt a &quot;Fringe Benefit Belt&quot;?<br />  Beginning macrame students would do far better looking for help in &quot;The 'knotty' Macrame and Beading Book&quot; by Wendy Connor and advanced students will be happier with &quot;Braiding and Knotting Techniques and Projects&quot; by Constantine A. Belash.Techniques and Projects&quot; by Constantine A. Belash.	2001-12-31
US	51799122	R12LI894G2CW68	0375501371	685444613	A Widow for One Year: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Writer as writer in a book within a book	John Irving readily admits that he writes &quot;long, explicit, plot-driven novels,&quot; and that &quot;to move the reader , emotionally, means more to [him] than persuading the reader intellectually.&quot; This rich, complex, novel grows its plot from characters struggling with what they have (emotionally) and what they want, and the gap that lies between. All the main characters in the book are writers, and they all struggle with their characters imagination and with their own. Ruth, who is a child in the opening scenes of the book, is in search of a mother, still, at the end of the book. Her search is made more complex by her success as a writer and her ability to conjure up experiences she doesn't think she can feel. Marion, Ruth's Mother, wants to be free of emotion and the responsibility emotion brings along with it. Ruth's best friend Hannah, a journalist, serves as a pesky narrator in her life, examining Ruth's fiction and arranging it as non-fiction. Eddie, a good-hearted bad writer, writes the story of his life over and over because it's the only story he knows. Ruth's father is a helpless womanizer whose fame is baffling, considering that he writes terrifying children's stories. Timothy and Thomas, dead before the book opens, are Ruth's brothers, seen only in photographs so powerful and realistic they remain pivotal characters in the book. <br />It's clear that with all these writers, there will be several other-book chapters within the main book, and occasionally the reader may have to re-orient out of other books back into the main plot.    Irving does what he does in many of his books--spins a seemingly simple story that becomes more involved and complex, with details woven into the rich and wonderful cloth as the story develops.       The weakest point of the story is the description of Ruth's new novel. Irving falters as he explains how a woman writer would handle the issues surrounding prostitution--power, shame, control, and money.       The end of the novel closes around the plot in a tidy circle, showing the reader that life is cyclical, that seasons do return, and that many endings make wonderful beginnings.	2001-08-07
US	51799122	R58DRIPG3DRFL	4889960627	675396167	Art of Antique Beading	Books	4	35	36	N	Y	Fresh ideas, approach with patience.	The Art of Antique Beading is a slim book packed with satisfying ideas, clear and beautiful color pictures, and an easy system that groups similar designs with their instructions. There are 124 different projects, many of them not found in American books (this one is translated from the Japanese.) Bead embroidery on evening bags, barrettes, rings, necklaces, bracelets, brooches, chokers, lariats and combs fill the pages with fresh ideas and new looks that no eager beader could resist. <br />But bring your patience. While the instructions include bead amounts, and the color numbers for Toho and Mill Hill (two brands of Japanese beads) the reader is left to figure out diagrams as obscure as origami folds with little information about the thread (or wire) path. Some beading experience is a must for success. When diagrams are piled four to a page, they are too small except for the sharpest eyes. The accessory page is not helpful, listing &quot;wire and nylon thread&quot; and &quot;beading thread&quot; without a single suggested brand name or source. <br />The patient (and smart) beader will read through a few diagrams first, because the wire size appears in the first of similarly-grouped instructions. <br />The fearless beader will leap right into this book, substituting Nymo for wire, seeing what happens, ignoring unfamiliar Toho numbers and substituting what's on hand. The best part is fearlessness is well rewarded--the results are lovely, and the pieces delightfully different.	2001-08-06
US	51799122	R326CXFGOJYKV3	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Thoughtful and evocative	Mark Salzman poses a fascinating question for his main character, Sister John of the Cross: If the source of her divine visions is not divine, if it is instead a physical ailment, must she give up what has sustained her faith for many years? The book moves slowly and introspectively through to the answer. Like many major life decisions, there is no absolute wrong or right, and in communal life, a personal choice resonates with communal consequeces. If Sr. John of the Cross loses her visions, and the poetry these visions allow her to write, the cloister will suffer a financial loss. If she gets the physical &quot;glitch&quot; repaired, she loses her divine gift and maybe her faith as well.<br />The book shows the nun's personal struggle in the context of daily Carmelite life, which is measured and has a greater purpose than the desires of the individual.<br />It would be natural to assume that a cloistered life would produce a decision made in silence and private. But Sister John's past life noisily haunts her thoughts. The lives of the nuns and novices around her influence her judgement. In this way the book  allows the reader to experience vicariously the simultaneous detachment from the outside world and the intense involvement of a cloister with the spiritual demands and needs of that world.<br />The book has a few flaws. If the book's purpose was a meditation, it was successful. The central thought makes for a great mental wrestle: can a cranial short-circuit be the basis of faith? If your vision of divine love turns out to be a disease, how does that change your relationship with the divine? But the book is not a meditation, it's a novel. The pacing is sometimes uneven. The other nuns are sometimes not fully drawn. Their struggles are somehow not important to us. The evening that Sr. John makes her momentous decision comes up suddenly, and is, I felt, rushed over as a group event. I also wanted either a deeper exploration into the personal reasons for her decision or a longer view of the consequence--an epilogue of ten years later. But perhaps that is exactly what Salzman was avoiding--a neat, tidy answer. Sister John's decision was made with the facts at hand, and it is possible, that after five years of living with the consequences, she may have wished for another chance. And don't we all.	2001-06-08
US	51799122	R2WV3R9QQHCWQF	0805038949	809307317	Decorative Beadwork: How to Create Stylish Attractive Bead Designs for Jewelry and Items for the Home: 12 Projects (Contemporary Crafts Series)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Worth looking for	This book is out of print, but it's worth looking for. I found my copy in a second-hand bookstore before I considered myself a beader, and this interesting, enthusiastic book gave me the push I needed to try new techniques.<br />In the 100 pages or so of information, there is a lot of good technique, information, and inspiration. The projects cover a lot of ground--beadweaving, loom weaving, bead stringing, bead embroidery. The 12 projects include two necklaces, a watchband, and two pairs of earrings. The cute beaded alligators are the ones to try. There are decorative home items, too: a jug cover, napkin rings and a beaded curtain. <br />Color pictures show each project step by step, with attention shown to the difficult spots.  A Gallery shows some wonderfully different approaches--beaded beads, wall hangings, a magnifying glass as neckpiece. <br />The only difficulty is the advice on string. Monofilament fishing line may have been a great idea when the book was written eight years ago, but it deteriorates in sunlight and is better left to string fish than beads. But the book does discuss either types of threads, beads, and tools.<br />Keep your eye out for this charming beading book. If you find it for around $10, snap it up. It will bring you ideas and help you figure out that netted tube that you could never figure out before.	2001-05-02
US	51799122	R1BQMIU3O3JI1S	0425169863	739795031	Point of Origin (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	2	25	30	N	N	Lukewarm, not hot.	There is a guideline among play/screenwriters that says if a gun is on the table in the first act, it must be fired by act three. So when the villain's threatening letter appears on the first page of the book, a reader can reasonably expect a person-to-person confrontation by the end of the book. Don't hold your breath, it never happens. The ending clearly points to a continuation of Carrie the Villain in another Kay Scarpetta book, but disappointed fans may not pick up the next installment.<br />Kay Scarpetta fans will have to be devoted and loyal to love this book. The quality if a far cry from the tensely plotted, intriguingly detailed books that Cornwell wrote at the beginning of the series. The result is a main character who has shed all her flaws, leaving an unsympathetic, driven, workaholic superhero in her place. <br />Kay's niece, in this plot installment, is fast following the character of her aunt. In other books this young woman was brittle, smart, sympathetic, and on the brink of self-understanding. Now she is just another lesbian computer genius, athlete, and expert helicopter pilot who comes complete with incredible intuition and brilliant firefighting skills and who regularly falls in love with her supervisors. Oh, and she was the villain's former lover, too. But it wasn't her fault. She was young. And dumb. Her character just doesn't add up.<br />Readers can't sympathize with someone they don't understand, let alone identify with. A good book editor would have made sure to create a character transition for those who have not read every Kay Scarpetta book in order. <br />And that's the major problem with the book--it's not badly written, it has a lot of potential to be another stay-up-all-night-and-read-Cornwell book, but it is badly damaged by sloppy work that could have been easily fixed by a shrewd book editor.   An editor would have also made sure the escaped colt that received a big buildup was explained instead of forgotten; that Mr. Sparks either had a name change or at least a more finished role in the second half of the book; that people vital to the plot line would have been introduced before the plot line is exhausted; that the dialogue flows less awkwardly; that the non-word &quot;ironical&quot; never appeared at all; and that the ending explained better why no chemical ingniter was found in the tests when it suddenly becomes an important factor in the book. <br />Let's hope plot details get fixed by the next installment, or it won't be a mystery that Kay Scarpetta fans begin to vanish.	2001-05-01
US	51799122	R65MMGKEBQF6A	0806942711	952498643	Two-Hour Beaded Projects: More Than 200 Designs	Books	2	41	41	N	N	Borrow it from the library before you buy.	Ann Benson, a popular bead artist and author (she has several other books) wrote &quot;Two-Hour Beaded Projects&quot; in 1993. So the book should certainly not be held to 2001 standards in beading. An author chooses what to include, but I was surprised to find so few popular stitches shown or used. Benson does not use or include peyote, square, herringbone, or netting stitches, although they were popular in '93. She does include dual-needle brick stitch and needleweaving, an interesting technique that has lost a lot of attention with the rise of more popular stitches.<br />The book shows projects that the average person could do in two hours. There are, according to the subtitle, 200 designs. The 126-page book is filled with large color pictures of finished projects, beautifully photographed. Many items are interestingly displayed,but some are on backgrounds so busy that it detracts from the object itself. <br />For beginners,completing projects using only the instructions might be a struggle. The technique section is, at best, bare bones. The few line drawings aren't enough to be clear or complete. There is no discussion of beading needles or thread (it's mentioned, but no brand name comparison is given, nor is there a caution against using sewing thread), no warning against using pre-strung beads (used in several projects, still on the weak and poor-quality thread that is likely to break), no description of how each kind of pliers is used, what crimping pliers are or how to use them, or the technique needed to bend headpins into connectors, a technique used often in the book.<br />The project instructions are often vague. In a necklace called &quot;cow skull&quot; the first purchased item is &quot;one ceramic cow skull.&quot; There are no source guides in the book. The size is not given. If you can't find a ceramic cow skull? &quot;. . .make one from polymer clay,&quot; says Benson, &quot;following the directions for working with polymer clay in the General Instructions. ..&quot; Those directions say &quot;Form the softened clay into desired shapes.&quot; Not much help here. Too many of the insufficient instructions end with the sentence, &quot;if necessary, refer to the photograph,&quot; which shows a completed piece.<br />I tried the votive cups, around which you wrap beads strung on wire. I purchased votives identical to the ones Benson used, with the widest part on top, tapering down to a narrower bottom. The wire slides off easily on that shape. Benson suggests gluing the wire or beads, but even superglue wouldn't hold the wire securely enough to be handled more than once. Used on the beads, glue alters the finish, damages the bead, and leaves a white chemical stain on the glass.<br />The book certainly has a wide variety of projects and can inspire a beader's own ideas, but before you buy this book, check it out of the library and see if the instructions are complete enough for you. Otherwise, pass on this book and see Diane Fitzgerald's book on brick stich or Vicky Starr's book on peyote stitch, both very satisfying books with good instructions.	2001-04-20
US	51799122	R2YO0U7PQPQV8J	1883010721	461773360	Beading with Brick Stitch (Beadwork How-To)	Books	5	56	58	N	Y	Unique, different, enchanting	Diane Fitzgerald has tackled a brave subject with flair and refreshing approach. Brick stitch is the step-sister to the popular peyote stitch. Brick does not work up as quickly, has a slightly longer learning curve, and simply has not enjoyed the popularity of peyote stitch, perhaps because peyote is linked to the wildly popular amulet bags and brick stitch was the mainstay of hippie earrings. This doesn't seem to bother Fitzgerald at all. And long before the end of the book, it does not bother the reader either.<br />Fitzgerald proves over and over that brick stitch has its own special uses-through increases and decreases, it can curve over uneven objects. It can be used to create three-dimensional forms that hold their shape and have an appealing look and texture. The possibilities are many and the techniques within the grasp of most beaders.  <br />Fitzgerald makes the most of both her audience and the contents of the book. ...the book is filled with projects with detailed instructions and pictures that make the most resistant beader reach for threaded needle and beads. The 30-page gallery contains not just wonderfully-photographed objects, but great ideas. Necklaces, pins, bracelets, vessels, sculptures, decorative beading,  and objects of fascination all appear in the pages. Unique, different, enchanting. <br />The book begins with a history of brick stitch, the different names, the origin of similar beadwork, and a focus on objects that defined the art. It moves into the obligatory tools and techniques, but with a twist: Fitzgerald assembled a group of beaders who tackled each project for difficulty and instructional sense. And their different results are shown. That raises this book head and shoulders above most how-to beading books. <br />It's best to work through the book with an eye to the steps that you need to know before you tackle a project. Dedicated beaders can learn what they need to know as they work through a project, but it helps to learn the technique first. Fitzgerald deserves a prize for that idea alone.<br /> Far too many teachers cave in to student demands that the first attempt should result in a gift-quality result. Fitzgerald is not ashamed to get you to try the technique first on trial piece. But, if you are a gifted and advanced beader, she also shows you how to assemble those initial attempts into an impressive sampler.<br />This book will become one of the \\"must have\\" books for the bookshelf. And it won't spend a lot of time there, either. Expect to have it on your work table almost all the time.	2001-04-16
US	51799122	R3QWDD67SMKNFI	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	No easy answers.	Anita Shreve has written a spare, clean book that tackles two difficult questions: &quot;Do you ever know anyone completely?&quot; and &quot;Is the purpose of life learning to deal with loss?&quot;  The answers are, at least for Kathryn Lyons, the book's main character,  &quot;Yes&quot; and &quot;No&quot; respectively. But then there is the knock on the door in the middle of the night, the knock that every pilot's spouse fears. Her husband has died in an airline accident. There are incidents surrounding the circumstances that don't make sense. Not to Kathryn. Not unless she changes her mind about those two answers. <br />This book is not really a mystery, although it contains the suspense and slow revelations of a mystery book. The book is best when it is less of a mystery and more of a coming-to-grips with life. The book falters when it reaches too far. Some questions don't have tidy answers, some situations are wrenching and won't be survived easily. Most people past the age of 21 are damaged by life, with our without a convenient terrorist connection.<br />Kathryn Lyons must step out of her comfortable existence and begin to examine the core of what she has known to be the truth of her life. And almost none of it remains true. As one discovery leads to another, Kathryn must decide how she will react, who she will become, what she will and will not tell her 15-year old daughter. The question is less of &quot;what really happened?&quot; and more &quot;Do I have control over these emotional earthquakes?&quot;<br />As a suddenly single parent, it would be easy for Kathryn to become self-absorbed, to feel that as a widow she has the right to become angry and resentful. And for a while, she indulges in those feelings. And then she moves through them. There is the heart of the success of Shreve's story--the struggle to overcome  one's natural inclinations to selfishness, to grow in the face of pain and loss, not seeking &quot;closure&quot; but learning to live with disaster.<br />The book is never cloying or indulgent. It could easily have fallen into that rut, but it does not. It remains true to human emotion, betrayal, love, lies and fabrication. There are some places that could have used a little more credible explanations, and a few that could have been edited out. But all in all, a good read, that can be read in small bits and pieces or in one long delightful slide.	2001-04-16
US	51799122	R6RQ0HUZW7PN5	0887408745	558566981	Fashion Jewelry to Make Yourself: Imaginative, Refined, Elegant With Instructions (A Schiffer Craft Book)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Pictures, Yes! Text, huh?	Renate Bosshart wrote a great book--the jewelry shown is beautifully designed, with varied and interesting techniques. The pieces are shown as full-page, 4-color photographs. So why does &quot;Fashion Jewelry To Make Yourself&quot;  get only three stars? Because the title is misleading and the translation is baffling. <br />Unless you are a jeweler already, you can't make the pieces shown in the book. The materials list that starts the book is vague and poorly illustrated. The photograph of various pliers is too dark and too small to see the difference between a round-nose and chain-nose pliers, and the names aren't used anyway. You are told you will need &quot;various lengths and thicknesses&quot; of &quot;wires and threads.&quot; The diagrams scattered throughout the book are not consistent. Some are clear, others don't show enough separate steps. <br />But the translation is the worst flaw in this otherwise lovely book. The translator is obviously not a jeweler and not familiar with the tools of the trade. But don't let this discourage you. The 125-page book has color plates on almost every page, each with a great idea. No shortage of inspiration and motivation here. You need a good sense of humor and persistence to work through some of the text, but it's worth it. <br /> For example, it doesn't take too much imagination to figure out that &quot;cloth bands&quot; means ribbon, and that the German word for &quot;bead&quot; and &quot;pearl&quot; is the same. From context, you can figure out that &quot;press-molded beads&quot; and &quot;callottes&quot; are crimps that you attach with &quot;pliers with holes.&quot; More baffling is the line, &quot;Into the ring with a thorn, which can be hooked easily into a half-creole, you can glue a pearl. . .&quot; <br />I've paid as much for books without such gorgeous pictures. When I'm stuck in a deisgning rut, paging through this book is a certain cure.	2001-03-21
US	51799122	R2AUFC42UVX1YT	0965362213	374223540	Back to beadin': Elegant amulet purses & jewelry using delica & seed beads	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	Small book, big help	This slim,80-page, 5&quot; X 8&quot; paperback carries a big punch. It doesn't waste space, it's well organized, the finished bags are shown in detail in a color section. Instead of the popular peytote stitch, these bags are worked in brick stitch, a technique that creates a comfortable, flexible weave. Elbe doesn't leave you hanging for details. The instructions include fringe and strap directions, too. The book is mainly about bags, but it does include earrings, ornaments and bracelets.<br />     In today's world where &quot;intuitive&quot; is often overused and overrated, Elbe delivers a traditional table of contents. It's clear and concise. The TOC is followed by a list of material, complete with illustrations. <br />      In addition to basic brick stitch, Elbe  also shows herringbone weave, right-angle weave and bead crochet. The diagrams are exceptionally clear. When the going gets rough Elbe makes suggestions how to get through the difficult section. Even experienced beaders need that kind of help.<br />      Elbe shows how to decrease herringbone weave, but not how to increase. She does the same for right-angle weave. It's not clear why increasing is left out.<br />      On the technical side, the instructions are in black and white. Each pattern is shown twice: once to show the shape and entire fringe and once to show the body of the purse in detail. Different colors of beads are represented by black and white patterns. Some of the patterns are hard to distinguish, even in the larger detail drawing. It's a hard problem to solve in black and white. It may have been easier to code using letters or numbers instead of small-scale patterns. <br />     The book is a strong addition to any beading library..	2001-03-20
US	51799122	R1I91P0JKSIY8R	0967572509	128246443	Make Wire Beads	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Put your hands to work!	Lisa Van Herik overcomes many of the problems common in instructional books, and she does it in such a way that you want to make beads right away. And with this book, you can.  <br /> This book is clear and follows a logical step-by-step method. It starts out with necessary tools and techniques and doesn't demand a lot of equipment or years of metalsmithing to make that first bead. Chapters 4 through 7 are organized so that the beads become increasingly challenging. At any point, you can combine techniques to create your own beads. <br />Van Herik obviously has tried out these instructions on beginners, because she alerts the reader to common mistakes and tells you how and why to avoid them. It's rare to find instructions that tell you why to avoid certain moves--by the time the reason becomes obvious, it's too late.<br />All the beads are pictured in the front of the book, laid out in a pleasing pattern. The numbers are not in order in the photograph. I've had to hunt for a few beads, but it's not a big problem. In the text,the beads are listed in numerical order, with instructions. A few pages show finished jewelry, and not all the beads shown in the jewelry are covered in the book. This is not uncommon in instructional books, but giving the page numbers for the instructions that ARE in the book would have made the problem go away.<br />Beginners might have problems winding wire on dowels. It's easy to wind it too tightly, and once the wire bites into the wood,it is difficult to remove. The problem is never mentioned, but I've encountered it often, particularly with square silver wire. The problem is easily solved by using various diameter knitting needles or welding rods.<br />This is a handy and well-thought out instructional book that the beginner will come to depend on and the experienced bead-maker will return to often for more ideas.	2001-03-14
US	51799122	R1CSPFPHXZZA1H	0385502532	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An amazing first novel.	Christina Schwarz's first novel takes a lot of risks.Schwartz does not give herself a lot to work with. The main character is not particularly likable, and certainly not heroic. The plot moves back and forth--frequently--over a period of about 20 years. The setting is about ten square miles of the Rustbelt around the Depression, populated by a handful of ordinary people.<br />How do those factors combine to make a good story? The book catches the voice and morals of the setting. It and shows what can happen when two people from the same family make different decisions about the same event. Someone dies. Someone almost dies. Someone lives, but feels dead. And all this is unwrapped for the reader, page by page, in a way that is believable, heartbreaking, and fascinating.<br />Let's be clear. If you love zooming through fast-paced whodonits, this is not the mystery for you. If you reach for towering family-saga novels, this may not be your style. If, however, you want to get a feel for what life was like in your grandmother's generation, a time that feels much farther away than 70 years ago, you'll love this book. <br />This was a time when a women still unmarried by age 25 were called spinsters and viewed with suspicion. A woman had no social or societal value without a husband. And a woman could ruin her chances of getting married by actions considered totally harmless today. Decisions about personal actions were always carefully considered in the light of how others would interpret them. &quot;What will people say?&quot; was a daily guideline for behavior.<br />Schwartz understands all this. Her story unfolds, again and again, each time from a different viewpoint, until the reader is absorbed and waiting for the next decision that will lead to happiness or to failure. <br />This book is worth a careful read and should bring up some lively discussions in a book club.	2001-03-06
US	51799122	R2SH9TMXUSZ91V	0060199652	822422067	Prodigal Summer	Books	4	41	43	N	N	Satisfying, but not filling.	If the Kingsolver you love is the one who wrote The Bean Trees, Pigs in Heaven, and Animal Dreams, and you found The Poisonwood Bible written in a different voice and style, be warned that Prodigal Summer is closer in tone and structure to The Poisonwood Bible. <br />But Prodigal Summer has its own power and magic. The basic storyline is the focus on nature as a major life force.  But it is told from the viewpoint of three different character groups who come to understand that no one stands alone, no action is without consequence, every decision leads to results, wanted or unwanted.<br />   The young widow must make decisions about her future and her dead husband's land while struggling with his complex family. The Forest Service employee must deal with her chosen solitude and the hunter whom she invites to interrupt it. The two farmers must come to grips with how to manage their adjoining land, organically or chemically.      These elements would stand well on their own, but Kingsolver doesn't let the story lines run separate. All these people's lives cross. Their opinions differ, their ways of dealing with life and conflict differ. But they have to come up with a way of getting along. Just like real life. <br />The telling of this one story in different voices is a method  Kingsolver does well. The story is intersting, touching, gripping and, happily for the reader, not neatly tied up at the end. Like nature, things are left unsolved, to continue along with choices made thoughtfully and thoughtlessly, but all with strong convictions.       It's a good read with a careful presentation of some controversial topics.	2001-02-19
US	51799122	R21OKUK5852610	1579900933	332908703	Great Wire Jewelry: Projects & Techniques (Jewelry Crafts)	Books	5	107	107	N	N	Clear, interesting, fun	This how-to book has all the right basics: a list of tools and materials, a description of skills you'll need, and a key to how difficult the projects are. There is enough detail on the kind of wire to use (and avoid) to help the reader avoid expensive mistakes. There are even instructions so the beginner can make, rather than purchase, some of the knitting and drawing equipment.<br />The book is small and focused. If you want an overview of all types of wire jewelry, this is not the right book. If you are an advanced solderer looking for more projects, this solder-free book is not for you, either. <br />Great Wire Jewelry is a great book for beginners with some patience, who want to learn, through practice, to become advanced wire workers who make their own necklace- and bracelet-quality chains. Much of the book is a type of knitted or woven jewelry. There is also a smaller section on chain mail and connecting jump rings to create necklaces. <br />There are clear and easy-to-understand instructions on how to make each type of chain. The pictures are simple and the color coding of existing and just-added pieces are easy to grasp. There are tips along the way to help. <br />The book has some added extras, too. Color photographs of completed projects are keyed with the name and page number for instructions. Instructions are reverse-keyed so you can find the picture first.<br />For a small book of focused projects, it's easily worth the money.	2001-01-30
US	51799122	R1522JRVL4C5SB	0964595702	104597023	The Best Little Beading Book (Beadwork Books)	Books	4	65	66	N	N	Reference, not textbook	Come to this book the way you would a dictionary and you'll be pleased; expect a text on how to bead and you won't like it. This book is great for finding information, quick help, and looking up something you aren't sure about. Despite the color cover, the rest of the book is in black and white, and there is no stunning gallery to inspire you. In fact, there are no photographs (except for the cover). <br />The simple line drawings are meant to keep things clear and help the text, not be the only source of information. You'll find diagrams of how to knot, how to start a bend to make a wire loop, how to connect beading to earwires--all things that could never be done easily using only words.<br />The format is meant to cover as much beading ground as possible, with just enough help to get the reader started. It is not a step-by-step project book.<br />The beginning beader will reach for this book often; the intermediate beader will use the book for backup; and the advanced beader will be glad she bought it when she was a beginning beader.	2001-01-24
US	51799122	R1I1UUH3E217T0	0964595753	683922228	The Beaded Jewelry for a Wedding Book: Techniques for Beadlovers	Books	2	20	21	N	N	Time has passed it by	In the four years since this book was published, beading as a craft and art has made huge leaps forward. The speed of advancing talent is pushed by avid dedication of beaders and advances in bead technology (the uniformity of delicas and the variety of finishes and colors, for example.)    Leaps like these left this book behind.    This is a simple book that helps beaders achieve simple projects. There is almost a naive, &quot;let's get married on the front porch&quot; appeal to the beadwork. <br />  If today's bride is a beader, she wants to showcase her talents with impressive pieces. The bride who is not a beader will pass over these projects as not being elegant enough for a wedding day.<br />  Beginning beaders might want to try beading on memory wire or stringing fresh water pearls, both are projects in this book. But there are other beginning books that provide more information and a better foundation.	2001-01-24
US	51799122	R1BI1HC2TTYXGK	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Writing as horror story.	Stephen King has written another non-fiction book. This one is on writing. How it's done, how it works. How he works.  So, how does he do it? It's fair game to think King sold his soul to the devil at the crossroads in return for success after success. It wasn't that easy for King. Success came from flat-out, unrelenting, grinding effort.<br />King is always compelling as a writer of horror fiction. It turns out that the life of a writer has its own horrors, and King doesn't flinch from them. Working in a laundry, boiling maggot-infested sheets might have snuffed out a weaker spirit. It simply fed King's resolve, along with a few of his plots.<br />He comes to this task as teacher with important things to say, and none of it is boring. His message to writers is simple: first read--a lot. Then write--a lot. And do it every day and be honest. It's much harder than it sounds.<br /> King uses the same techniques that keep his readers up too late reading his fiction to involve them in wanting to be good writers. He writes a compelling book about that craft that is less mystery than, at times, drudgery. Using examples from his life, his work, others' work, he shows that there is no magic, no need to sell your soul.  Just do the hard work of writing and do it every day.  <br />So why does King start and close his book with personal stories? Writers, more so than other professions, live their work. Walt Whitman wrote that he went out every day and became what he saw. The personal narrative makes real the middle portion of King's book that describes the writer's tools and how to use them. Without the personal context, the book would be weaker, more pedantic.<br />The book has a few flaws. King is still in love with elipses, and he uses them generously. He spends a lot of time focusing on his wife, but only as a helpmate and never as a novelist. In the section about theme, a good definition with some examples (as he did in other sections) would have made it a bit more clear.<br />As this book, as in others, King knows what he's doing. On Writing is a good read and a great textbook.	2001-01-10
US	51799122	R2NB8YP8P21RQG	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	1	11	15	N	N	Cheesy.	The one-minute manager author strikes again. Here is the message: change happens. Get over it.  This one is another in a long line of snake-oil salesmen who have morphed into business experts selling the philosophy &quot;you can change your life forever by spending $12 and one hour reading a cute story.&quot; Wow, and I always thought changing your life was hard work.        The far more dangerous message from the one-minute manager guru is that a dedicated worth ethic is the mark of a fool. Another dangerous message is that one fable with flawed logic (can everyone really categorize themselves as a clever rat or as a pint-size person who dithers through life?) applies to all aspects of life. It doesn't. If I worked the way I cook I'd never follow any rules, invite my friends into my office and know they don't really care if the results aren't good, they are there because they want to spend time with me.     Books like this underestimate the complexity of everyday life and cheat us out of personal growth by substituting platitudes for genuine experience.     If this book changed your life, I'm happy for you. Wanna buy a bridge?	2001-01-09
US	51799122	R2BJ0YSS6Q4O03	0964607735	658317139	More Zulu Beadwork	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A spiral-gound gem.	Much like Fitzgerald's other Zulu chain tecniques book, this small-format book crams information on culture, beading, and instructions into less than 50 pages. The few black and white pictures pack a lot of punch: the Zulu woman decked out in her hand-made finery leaves the reader wanting to know more about this woman, the time she spent beading this elaborate work, and the outcome: if beadwork is symbolic of her prowess as a wife, did she get the husband she deserves?     Other pictures show beading techniques: a flat piece with a repeating back-and-forth design, a piece that must have inspired the Western bow tie, a beaded rope, and several designs (including a three-edged, twisting strap) that must be seen to be appreciated.   All of pieces in the photographs have detailed instructions. The instructions have illustrated, clear, understandable diagrams accompanied by Fitzgerald's helpful text.    You can expect to create authentic patterns or be ready to take off on your own designs with this book.	2001-01-09
US	51799122	R2YTRO45W23VP0	0671042858	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A small, tense book	Fans of Stephen King will not believe he wrote a book you can lift with one hand. Friends of the blow-'em-up endings of Needful Things and Insomnia (among others) may be disappointed that the fireworks is missing. But in this short, tense novel you will find all the slowly mounting fear, dread and terror that Stephen King writes so masterfully. And he does it slowly, carefully, and, as always, letting us fill in the blanks with the worst of our own nightmares.  A little girl gets lost while on a hike in the woods with her mother and brother. She is lost spiritually and psychologically, too. Her parents have divorced and her brother is stuck in his own anger. King uses the clever device of the samness of the woods, the sameness of her attempt to find a way out as a counterpoint to her interior struggle with despair, the existence of God, her relationship to her angry parents.  As her Walkman fades out she is left utterly alone. Well, except for the hallucinations (or is that scrabbling in the leaves real?)  In this book, King shows that that terror can travel slowly, and that if the world ends with a whimper instead of a bang, it can still be terrifying.	2001-01-05
US	51799122	R3UWVVQ8C2NTNN	0964607727	995380043	3: Zulu Beaded Chain Techniques (Contemporary Beadwork Series)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	More, please!	This carefully researched, well-written little paperback is a gem. It's an interesting read for cultural and decorative arts information as well as for instructions for beading the chains shown.   Photographs of pieces are clear, even when the pieces are grouped. A table of contents helps you find the instructions for the piece pictured. Color photographs would have enhanced the book greatly, but that's a budget issue, not a content problem. Fitzgerald has another book out now, also on Zulu beadwork. Buy both of them, they are great companion pieces.	2001-01-05
US	51799122	R2JVOVPALSERU6	0471178314	539728097	User and Task Analysis for Interface Design	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	Read it before you need it.	If there is one strong message in this book, it is: Go talk to the people who will use your product. It's an important message. Software designers and writers spend too much time with each other developing clever tricks, while the poor user, often left to self-train with a poorly written manual, gives up in frustration.   The authors follow their own advice--in addition to telling you how to conduct a site visit to the end users, there are clear instructions (based on experience) on planning a visit, structuring questions, how to make the site visit useful for both the analyzers and the users, and figuring out what the user said and what it means about the product.  There are reminders about release forms and examples of the forms themselves.    Case studies help make the points clear and undestandable.   A thoroughly readable book in clear and simple language that can be started anywhere for quick help, or read cover to cover for a complete course.	2001-01-05
US	51799122	R9RCZZVU6S136	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	0	0	N	N	He's baaaack, and it's good!	If John Doe wrote a book on writing, six people would read it and five would find something to complain about. But this is Stephen King. He's going to tell us about the boys in the basement. He's going to take us on a trip through the creaking-door start up and into the shadows of plot and let us see how he gets those hairs jumping up off our neck.   And he does. It turns out to be by hard work, not by selling your soul to the devil. Writing, King says, is done by reading and by. . .well, writing. He tells us how, too, with examples from his own and others' work. Real examples. William Carlos Williams gets his due at last.    King could have told us he'd sold his soul and we'd believe him. In fact, we'd prefer to believe that than get down to work. And that's exactly why King did writers and readers alike a huge service when he wrote a non-fiction book on writing. It's just hard work. And hard work is worth it to writers because anything else except writing isn't worth getting up for. But it's lonely and scary. And King knows it; he's made the most of that fear and loneliness for us for more than 25 years.     If you want to make your living as a writer buy this book in hardcover, read it and keep it close at hand. When you think dusting/changing the oil on the car/cleaning windows is more important than writing 2,000 words today, crack open the book and read any two pages. You'll be a better writer for it.	2001-01-04
US	51799122	R1UGAH6OADYG4O	1564742490	268618336	The Circus at the End of the World	Books	4	0	0	N	N	In the air, with certainty	In less than 200 pages Brackenbury creates characters who depend on their strength and conviction to carry them through the dreary hardship that turn most people into whiners. But these characters don't whine; they win. And they juggle (literally and figuratively) to explain life to themselves. Brackenbury, who is a poet, uses the tightness and verbal tension of poetry to create vignettes of landscape, personal and natural, that will stay with the reader long after the book is done.  Each of the characters is a protagonist, each situation inevitable. There is great unity of purpose here. A young man's search for his mother is really a search for himself; a deserted lover's fierce focus on a vineyard is a fulfillment of self. A quick read, good and satisfying.	2000-12-19
US	51799122	R18HOVGJRSPP0B	0806977558	264768144	Art of Seed Beading	Books	3	31	33	N	Y	A taste, but not a feast	Tired of amulet bags? This book does not contain a single one. Instead there are needle-cases,a necklace depicting elephants, and teeny-tiny cups and loaves of bread. Maybe a bit precious, but certainly not run-off-the-mill. But a word to all authors and editors of beadwork:  Photographs (and, similarly, scans) of size 11 beads printed at 100% are too small for a beader to understand what's going on. And when the beads and thread are both dark, it's futile to try to understand the thread path. If you want a book for inspiration, this one is nice. If you want a book for instruction, go to one of the lovely books that has clear diagrams, Carol Wilcox Wells's books, for example.	2000-12-18
US	51799122	R2JEM9ZNOZ40X2	0935012257	563590192	E-What? A Guide to the Quirks of New Media Style and Usage	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Little book, big help.	All of us seem to be rushing to get a brochure, annual report, marketing material and general content up on a website, but until now there has been little help in making sure that the information is readable, grammatically correct, or consistent. Grab this book as you are rushing. It belongs right next to the computer--every computer. The editors of EEI Press seem to know just what's confusing and baffling writers, and are quick to help us out without the usual pedantic rant of style books.  There is help for making sense of e-words, e-mail, and e-sources. The book is well organized and gives sound advice to those who want to create their own style guide.The sidebars on address formats and FAQs are worth the price of the book, which may seem to be a bit steep. But considering how often I've turned to it for advice, answers and guidance, and found a way out of some e-mess, it's money well spent.  If you write, if you own a computer, if you want to represent yourself well to e-others, get the book today.	2000-10-05
US	51799122	R2V78J3J1B0V5J	1579900801	511884256	Creative Bead Weaving: A Contemporary Guide To Classic Off-Loom Stitches	Books	5	48	49	N	N	First on Your List	If you buy just one book on beading, buy this one. If you are a serious beader, buy this one first. It's practical, clear, well-written, well-designed, has precise directions to many stitches and their flat, round, and tubular versions, and is the first book to reach for when you don't understand, want to understand, or want comfort in seeing the lovingly photographed, equisite work of beadmasters.	2000-10-04
US	51799122	R3PIJZDDO7GFC0	0961642203	399240686	Advanced Beadwork (Beadwork Books)	Books	4	46	47	N	N	Techniques and problem solving	Important:  this is not a design book. You will be disappointed if you want yet another book of beaded amulet bag patterns. <br />However, if you have moved away from amulet bags and need help in working out problems on your own designs, this is the book to have. It covers beadweaving (off- and on-loom), wire work, soldering, tambour stitching, knitting and crocheting with beads, and a lot of use-it-right-now information on bead sizes, threads, cleaning, stone hardness, metals, and glues. <br />The shortcoming of the book is that it may be too broad in scope and not deep enough in detail. But that can be an advantage: if you are struggling with a technique, you can learn enough from this book to know what to do next, whether learn a different tecnique, go to a specialist book, or take a class. That's a hugely valuable tool to have. It saves money and time. And for professional beaders, that's a big plus.	2000-09-21
US	51799122	R1HD3MBG2N4W55	0806948914	485787905	Beaded Tassels, Braids & Fringes	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Imaginative and content rich	Beaders wanting to expand their talents can reach for this book for both inspiration and instruction. There are hundreds of ideas here, for every level. Not everyone will understand all the instructions and some of the components could have been written with more detail, but with a little effort and perseverence these projects are within reach of a dedicated beader.    Serious beaders and tassel makers will revel in a book that provides challenges, solutions and professional results.	2000-09-20
US	51799122	RRX3AE6US2C6C	0965078426	401774056	Wonderful, Wearable Wire	Books	5	30	34	N	Y	Instructions and directions	If you just bought wire-bending equipment and need help, buy this book. It's perfect for the novice-- slide your clear Wig-Jig Olympus over the template, put in the pegs and copy the designs. The book contains interesting and important wire-bending start-up information, too. More advanced? Lots of information and projects for you, too.      The book is divided into sections by project (ornaments, pendants, links and clasps)with easy and challenging projects in each section.        The book is wirebound, so you can fold it flat open. One pattern per page keeps you focused, not flipping pages. Some of the pages are busy with information, and require some patience to understand.     One important page not to miss: the one that says patterns are all under current copyright, and are for personal use only.	2000-09-20
US	51799122	RTRE4P4YK75U1	186108062X	294643905	Tassel Making For Beginners	Books	5	31	31	N	N	A great &quot;how-to&quot; you won't outgrow	&quot;Beginners&quot; is in the title, but you won't give up the book when you gain experience. It's filled with tips, ideas, and shortcuts that make the learning experience fun and keep your interest high.  Whether you want to make a simple tassel in fifteen minutes or develop a complex tassel as a project, reach for this book for instructions.  This is the tassel book to buy first. You won't give it up.	2000-09-20
US	51799122	R1CWZ2VMBLFAVZ	1883010713	637150471	Beading with Peyote Stitch (Beadwork How-To)	Books	4	104	104	N	Y	Worth buying, worth reading, worth keeping, and a warning	One of the few instructional beading books that also makes good reading.  Sure, it's a must-have for the beading table, but it's a great take along  for commuting, waiting at the dentist, or on the bedside table for  inspiration before sleep.  The good news: if you are a fan of the original  Beady-Eyed Women (the authors have other books), this one has lots of color  pictures, and not just in the (40-page!) Gallery section.  More good  news: Lots of diagrams, and most of them are right next to the text, so  people who need both words and pictures can understand the steps. The  text-links to the diagrams are easily numbered, and that's a big help.  Even more good news: there are some great ideas in this book that I haven't  seen in others. The section on making geometric shapes and links is worth  the price of the book.  The surprise: the picture amazon.com shows as the  book cover is not the one on the cover of the book I got. The instructions  for the Vicki Star's &quot;Stellar Star&quot; is not included in the book,  but the picture is, on p.75.  The bad news: The diagrams showing bead  placement use blue ink to show existing beads and the same tone of purple  ink to show added beads. If you are a diagram user, read under a bright  light, or you won't understand what's going on. It would have been a better  idea to use contrasting colors for existing and newly added beads in the  diagrams.  More bad news: In the section on making bead triangles, there  is an assumption that if you've done one side, you can figure out the  other. Some of us can't, and one more diagram would have been helpful.  Instead, after a step-by-step description of the first half of the  triangle, we are told, &quot;you don't have to make two steps down or two  steps up, but you still have to take the ten-cent tour.&quot; As the  two-step process was crucial, that final diagram would be a big help.  More bad news for beginners: This is the only book I've read (and I own  more than 30 books on beading)in which odd-count peyote stitch starts with  an even number of beads, and even-count peyote starts with an odd number of  beads. In the odd-count, you add another bead in row three, which, as the  authors say, &quot;turns the first three rows upside down.&quot; In the  even-count, there is a diagram (with asterisk footnotes explained on the  flip side of the page) that left me confused. I finally got it, but I'm a  slow learner, so this may not be a problem for people who are fast  learners.  The conclusion: Buy the book. The well-explained tips,  scattered throughout the book are worth the price of the book. You'll learn  something no matter what level you are on, and the color pictures are  enough to inspire any level beader.0 books on beading)in which odd-count peyote stitch starts with  an even number of beads, and even-count peyote starts with an odd number of  beads. In the odd-count, you add another bead in row three, which, as the  authors say, &quot;turns the first three rows upside down.&quot; In the  even-count, there is a diagram (with asterisk footnotes explained on the  flip side of the page) that left me confused. I finally got it, but I'm a  slow learner, so this may not be a problem for people who are fast  learners.      The conclusion: Buy the book. The well-explained tips,  scattered throughout the book are worth the price of the book. You'll learn  something no matter what level you are on, and the color pictures are  enough to inspire any level beader.	2000-09-04
