US	51793127	R9W40Q2U94PO2	0743470923	373796793	Project Beta: The Story of Paul Bennewitz, National Security, and the Creation of a Modern UFO Myth	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Disinformation Continued?	It's difficult to reach any profound conclusion about the volume of events discussed in PROJECT BETA: THE STORY OF PAUL BENNEWITZ, NATIONAL SECURITY, AND THE CREATION OF A MODERN UFO MYTH; much like the title alone, the information presented isn't necesssarily additive to any other result but \\"don't believe what you were just told.\\"<br /><br />Of course, this fact goes hand-in-hand with the book's subject: Bennewitz, an inventor and businessman, discovers possibly 'irrefutable' scientific evidence that something 'alien' is taking place involving the DOD's Sandia Labs.  Monitored and decoded radio transmissions give the appearance that the Earth is being considered ripe for invasion by an unseen alien force.  Rather than find his efforts stymied by the military, Bennewitz finds himself a sort of confidante by a plethora of insiders, all whom poke and prod the man to continue his work in possibly fradulent avenues.  For the next decade, he finds himself pushed to his psychological limit, believing that he has somehow been placed in a clandestine race to save mankind partnered with Air Force investigators unwilling to do anything about it.<br /><br />Of course, the principle problem with constructing an account about disinformation is that the author is showing you his cards at the poker table.  Greg Bishop knows that the reader will understand the nature of disinformation as he's stripped the theory naked as part of the story he's telling.  However, what he doesn't do very well is 'reconstruct' these events to any ultimate conclusion, despite Bennewitz's obvious mental abuse.  Few of the details Bishop discusses can be substantiated because of the massive disinformation campaign, and any reasonably intelligent person can probably reach the midpoint of PROJECT BETA and have the revelation, \\"How am I to know for certain that I'm not the one being misinformed here?\\"<br /><br />Still, author Bishop manages to craft a novel that is equal parts intriguing, frustrating, and confusing.  The reader cares for Bennewitz -- despite some reservations about the man's stability -- and any reader would genuinely hope that some of these players who confess to be 'good friends' with the man  would break their patterns of deceit long enough to help the inventor keep his fragile sanity.  Bishop appears to justify their continued abuse of Bennewitz by routinely underscoring how much these men and women cared about the kindly inventor, but that becomes an increasingly difficult 'reality' to accept given Bennewitz's eventual destination., and confusing.  The reader cares for Bennewitz -- despite some reservations about the man's stability -- and any reader would genuinely hope that some of these players who confess to be 'good friends' with the man  would break their patterns of deceit long enough to help the inventor keep his fragile sanity.  Bishop appears to justify their continued abuse of Bennewitz by routinely underscoring how much these men and women cared about the kindly inventor, but that becomes an increasingly difficult 'reality' to accept given Bennewitz's eventual destination.	2005-08-15
US	51793127	R2NMSIPKQDXY0I	0375707433	111859463	Everybody Pays: Stories	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Everybody Paid In Full	In this collection of short fiction, Vachss' prose reminds us that evil is real, as tangible as a lethal insect crawling in our direction.  The situations are as close to home as fiction can get -- protecting one's self from a vicious rumor and accidentally killing the teller in the frenzy; murdering pedophiles in exchange for getting one last shot at the thug who ravaged a family member -- and show that every single person alive is in some way, shape, or form touched and tormented by crime.<br /><br />The book is divided into three sections: basic stories, tales of symbolism mixed with substance from the Underground Series, and stories and one novella featuring Vachss' soldier of fortune, Cross.  The first section arguable carries the greatest weight of the collection as the author weaves passioniately dramatic tales of revenge with as few words as is humanly possible with dazzling effectiveness.  While the Underground stories do leave some readers with little more than a sense of bewilderment, Vachss manages to leave even the casual reader wanting more.  The Cross series presents a troupe of right-minded 'mercs' doing more for the cause of justice than perhaps most uniformed men and women do every day.  Also, the Cross characters are so vividly drawn it would be terrific to see this team of avengers brought to the cinema screen.<br /><br />While the characters and situations presented here may not be to everyone's taste, Vachss deftly shows us how widespread evil is in the modern world.  He reminds us that, just as vile desires have created a sex slave state that exists around the globe, it's also touched casual souls on quite possibly every street in the United States.  He drives his point home -- everybody pays -- with amazing weight in these brief tales that it'd be hard for any reader to resist the temptation for soul-searching his own past for the price already paid.	2005-06-06
US	51793127	R2N85G60VFJ6NJ	0060746734	799934454	The Connection: How al Qaeda's Collaboration with Saddam Hussein Has Endangered America	Books	4	42	65	N	N	A Welcome Exploration of What (Little) We Know For Certain	Despite your political leanings, one can read THE CONNECTION and find that there are a wealth of connections between the international terrorism community. It's very clear that the al Qaeda had a massive network of support -- be it financial, material, or providing training space -- and that the organization was intent upon inflicting harm wherever and whenever it say a truly calculated means. I think that Stephen Hayes has done an exceptional job at gathering together what proven and speculative bits have been exposed, and I think he does an exceptional job at putting it together in a fashion that makes the most sense to the average reader.<br /><br /> While the book tries very hard to show a definitive connection between al Qaeda and Iraq, I'm not completely convinced it hits the nail on the head. Yes, it is very clear that members within the Iraqi intelligence community were aware of al Qaeda, offered them support and training facilites, etc., but what the book falls short of convincing me is whether or not Saddam Hussein was aware and/or endorsed these activities.<br /><br /> More than anything, I think Hayes underscores that, when you're dealing with intelligence, there very rarely is a &quot;smoking gun&quot; ... rather, there's a lot of smoke one has to peer through in order to get to the bottom in order to reach any conclusions.<br /><br /> Kudos to the book for being accessible to the general public: there are an awful lot of difficult names and places (for a non-political thinker and reader like myself). Instead of spending time exploring the background of these folks and places, Hayes concentrates of current events mostly -- 1990s to the present -- in order to make his case.	2004-08-02
US	51793127	R2GROTCSB17OG4	140120323X	369746631	Superman/Batman Vol. 1 - Public Enemies	Books	4	60	66	N	N	Cape & Cowl	Don't you just love it when two great athletes team up?<br />Batman and Superman have been around for decades.  Two of the main reasons people still read comics today, these two icons have appeared in -- literally -- thousands of stories ... facing threats to themselves ... challenging threats to world peace ... and making the world safe for the rest of us at the risk to their own personal safety.<br />However, PUBLIC ENEMIES -- under the guidance of Jeph Loeb -- takes the old and makes it new, bringing a remarkable freshness to characters who have seen some great days and, undoubtedly, have greater ones to come.<br />A huge meteor is hurtling across space, taunting the destruction of the planet Earth.  No big deal, you say?  Just send Superman into space to knock the rock off its trajectory?  While it sounds like a good idea, you have to remember that the author of this work is Jeph Loeb, arguably one of the best minds working in comics today (and, for those of you in the know, he's also a consultant for the WB's hit SMALLVILLE): this meteor is a hunk from the planet Krypton ... making it Kryptonite ... and meaning that Superman is absolutely powerless against it!  Its radiation threatens the survival of the entire planet, and only these two superminds and supertalents combined can find a way to save the day and put right all that has been thrown into chaos since Lex Luther was elected President of the United States.<br />What?  Lex Luthor?  President?<br />Clearly, PUBLIC ENEMIES is not necessarily a great 'jumping on' point for new readers.  There may be some resulting confusion due to storylines hinted at that occured before this tome (Lex Luthor's election as President of the United States, Luthor's attempt to wrest control of Gotham City from billionaire Bruce Wayne, Commissioner James Gordon's retirement from the police force, etc.), but these hints serve moreso as nods to other great Batman and Superman stories for the newcomer to go and explore.  Also, ENEMIES is replete -- one may argue too much so -- with guest appearances (Captain Atom, Major Force, Solomon Grundy, **drool** the lovely Power Girl, etc.) from the whole pantheon of DC villains and superheroes ... so many that that the final showdown between Luthor and Superman does feel a bit rushed to get this entire story told in what was originally six issues of the new Batman/Superman comic book, but that's a minor critique easily dismissed thanks to the strength of Loeb's work.  The real magic of PUBLIC ENEMIES is that it should be considered on its own and of its own merits ... of which there are (thankfully) plenty.<br />Also, Ed McGuinness deserves a nod for delivering some stunning artwork to back up Loeb's epic storyline.  The drawings are crisp and fluid, the coloring is dynamite and eye-popping, and the layout is exceptional.<br />ENEMIES is a friend worth finding.IES is replete -- one may argue too much so -- with guest appearances (Captain Atom, Major Force, Solomon Grundy, **drool** the lovely Power Girl, etc.) from the whole pantheon of DC villains and superheroes ... so many that that the final showdown between Luthor and Superman does feel a bit rushed to get this entire story told in what was originally six issues of the new Batman/Superman comic book, but that's a minor critique easily dismissed thanks to the strength of Loeb's work.  The real magic of PUBLIC ENEMIES is that it should be considered on its own and of its own merits ... of which there are (thankfully) plenty.<br />Also, Ed McGuinness deserves a nod for delivering some stunning artwork to back up Loeb's epic storyline.  The drawings are crisp and fluid, the coloring is dynamite and eye-popping, and the layout is exceptional.<br />ENEMIES is a friend worth finding.	2004-06-28
US	51793127	R1AA45VDLG05NQ	0446613924	326542730	Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu (Batman (Aspect))	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Dark Knight Returns!	I've tended to avoid delving into superhero novels largely because, of those I've read, I haven't been as overwhelmed by a great story without the graphics that generally accompany superhero adventures.  As a result, there's something lost from the 'bang,' 'pow,' and 'ziff' in the translation from panel-to-panel stories to straight prose ... but, wow, THE RISE OF SIN TZU is different ... so strongly different, in fact, that I could imagine a whole series of Batbooks (non-comic) to spring up in the years ahead.  This adventure is just that good.<br />Devin Grayson and Flint Dille know a thing or two about the Batman and his Rogues Gallery: in fact, Flint Dille is responsibility for the video game, BATMAN: THE RISE OF SIN TZU ... these are no lightweights.  What they've accomplished here is no small feat: through an interesting narrative device -- dedicating each chapter to an entirely different person in this well-told tale -- is lay the foundation for superhero novels that could and should follow in these footsteps.<br />Gotham City's darkest fears have come to pass: someone dastardly has freed all of the inmates of Stonegate Prison, as well as several select lunatics from Arkham Asylum, to send the city swirling into chaos.  The leader behind it all -- the mysterious Sin Tzu -- appears to have a simple purpose in mind: destroy the city ... when, in reality, his true goal is far more despicable: destroy Batman.<br />Terrific supporting players from the Bat-universe (Nightwing, Commissioner Gordon, Robin, Batgirl, Alfred, etc.) are all along for the ride, and the individualized focus that the writers give each of these players brings out yet even more fascinating characterizations for the players as well as for their unique perspective on the Batman, what he does, why he does it, and what it means to the city-at-large.<br />An exciting tale told at breakneck speed, THE RISE OF SIN TZU is one great yarn from start to finish!	2004-06-01
US	51793127	R7AWLSU5B5A3D	0345450361	507779835	Drowning World (Founding of the Commonwealth)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	World Gone Wet	One reason to explore the worlds created by Alan Dean Foster is the way he effortlessly weaves the passages of exposition -- explaining a never-seen lifeform, dissecting the evolution of a new species -- into the narrative of his stories.  He's very heavy on description, and the vividness of his details actually helps bring his worlds to life &quot;in the mind's eye.&quot;<br />DROWNING WORLD stands on par with his other works -- a solid cast of characters placed in an otherworldly situation forced to find compromise despite their cultural differences -- and he delivers in that respect.  Lauren Matthias (sp?) serves as the head of a space-based United Nations-like &quot;Commonweath&quot; force trying to bring peace and commerce to Fluva, but saboteurs to the peace-process make her job more and more difficult.  The downing of not one but two hovercraft in the heart of the ViisiiViisii (the Fluvian jungle), and the survivors -- each of a different species -- must find a way to work together, despite all predatory obstacles and another lifeforce (unbeknowst to them) that might also be secretly working to end their survival as well.<br />Presenting a message for our times in a futuristic or non-Earth setting is one of the benchmarks of science fiction, and DROWNING WORLD wades through these waters with ease.  To some, it might seem simplistic, but the message is as timeless today as it will be once man ventures into the stars and discovers a world like Fluva.	2004-03-16
US	51793127	RV8LF889K35ZK	1401200869	530776046	Superman: Day of Doom	Books	3	6	10	N	N	DOOMed from the Start?	If SUPERMAN: DAY OF DOOM -- a narrative penned by Dan Jurgens, the genius behind &quot;The Death of Superman&quot; storyline -- should be remembered for anything, it's in igniting the desire to go back and reread (and relive) the events of the entire &quot;Death&quot; series.  Certainly, it's hard to compete with one of the most revered stories to come out of comics in the past twenty years, but Jurgens does a respectable job only trying to give a nod to the events now in Supe's ever-growing history.  While the perspective of &quot;looking back&quot; is a nice touch, I found the character of 'Remnant' to be little more than formulaic.  Still, DAY OF DOOM is a quick read, and it deserves a place on any Superman fan's bookshelf.	2003-11-30
US	51793127	R3GT8T40EGSMR0	0312870493	29830141	To Reign in Hell: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	To Reign In Thought	Stephen Brust's work is assuredly a quick, entertaining read about Lord Satan's (inadvertant?) failed coup of Heaven.  With sharp prose and a remarkable sense of humor, Brust makes the most of telling the tale that took place before the events of the Bible but weaving consistently throughout his book foreshadowing of what the Bible says happened and has yet to happen.  While the book might not find much support among the religious community, fantasy fans can read the book entirely guiltfree and enjoy what a gifted writer can do with a relatively elementary premise.	2003-11-25
US	51793127	R1XLLBOBMVV8H6	0740721135	995513967	The Complete Far Side: 1980-1994	Books	5	20	21	N	N	The COMPLETE Side	This compendium weighs a ton.  No kidding.<br />A delightfully inspired packaging of &quot;all things FAR SIDE&quot; from the looney talking cows all the way to conspiratorial chipmunks.  Wonderfully packaged but very, very, very expensive, this two volume set includes occasional essays (yes, I said essays) from the genius Larson himself covering such items of the nature of &quot;what I was thinking when I drew ___&quot; to &quot;gosh, I'm sure sorry this thing is going to weigh so much.&quot;  Of course, there's no apology for the price (snicker, snicker), but, having grown up on his simplistic renderings of single panel humor, I have to admit that this collection is honestly worth every penny.<br />The best two-volume investment I've ever made, THE FAR SIDE should be required reading for high school graduation, as far as I'm concerned.	2003-10-26
US	51793127	R2V8HIG9CON6DT	0425188817	69021739	Sleeper	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Monster Mess or Monster Smash?	Truly great monster movies always find a way to convey the sense of loss or tragedy beind the monster.  In the process of discovery, the viewer begins to feel sorry for this frighteningly hideous being and the circumstances it has suffered, often times at the hand of man.  The moments of frenzy are nicely coupled with moments of pathos.  In the end, one could argue that the viewer comes to a greater understanding of the monster than any other character, and, perhaps, the viewer even secretly despises the hero who must inevitably vanquish the beast.<br />That said, Harriman's debut novel, \\"Sleeper,\\" almost feels crafted as an homage to the great monster movies of today and yesterday.<br />Meersohn, the \\"Sleeper\\" awakened, is the end result of Nazi scientists early tinkerings into research with genetic tampering, a bit of a stretch since DNA hadn't yet been discovered, but this is nicely smoothed out by the author (in a debut novel, nonetheless!).  Of course, the same fate that tempted the Nazis tempts Meersohn's father, and the story that began over six decades ago flashes forward to a future ... where the aftermath from monsters of the human variety (the terrorists of the historic 9/11 events) is being dealt with in the renovations to the Pentagon.<br />Ed Jeffers, the Pentagon facilities manager, is posed with a unique problem: a constructor worker has gone missing under curious circumstances that point to a saboteur or, worse, a wayward crocodile nesting within the massive walls of the building.  Jeffers seeks out the counsel of Dr. Andrea DeLuca, a herpetologist, to provide answers to some questions, but what she discovers only raises the stakes ... and Dr. DeLuca insists upon joining the search for what could possibly be a thousand-year-old species long thought extinct.  As matters continue to escalate, Terrill Hodge, America's finest Navy SEAL, is brought in to eradicate the creature ... and thus begins an odd love triangle between the three principal characters.<br />\\"Sleeper\\" doesn't exactly move along at a brisk pace.  Like the unravelling of any \\"X File,\\" the story has a fair amount of events, largely told in flashback, that need to be explained, and this keeps the narrative slow during the first half of the book.  However, the novel has its share of surprising plot twists, and the author occasionally strays into areas that other authors would've avoided or found unnecessary.  And, while others might take issue with the string of coincidences that eventually binds this house of cards together, the author deftly manages to keep the story on track, moving forward, never sacrificing the human element ... even that of the vicious Meersohn.<br />So many other themes are explored in \\"Sleeper\\" that it's difficult to wrap your arms around them all.  Genetic engineering.  Alzheimers.  Disability.  Attraction.  Revulsion.  The author went to great pains to pen a human story in the world of monsters, and the result -- while some moments involve too much internal character angst -- is still a well-deserved beast that deserves to be found by a wide audience.<br />The clever moral of the story here is that, through purely inadvertant chance, one monster (terrorists) ultimately unleashed another (Meersohn).  That's a lesson for the ages.s.<br />\\"Sleeper\\" doesn't exactly move along at a brisk pace.  Like the unravelling of any \\"X File,\\" the story has a fair amount of events, largely told in flashback, that need to be explained, and this keeps the narrative slow during the first half of the book.  However, the novel has its share of surprising plot twists, and the author occasionally strays into areas that other authors would've avoided or found unnecessary.  And, while others might take issue with the string of coincidences that eventually binds this house of cards together, the author deftly manages to keep the story on track, moving forward, never sacrificing the human element ... even that of the vicious Meersohn.<br />So many other themes are explored in \\"Sleeper\\" that it's difficult to wrap your arms around them all.  Genetic engineering.  Alzheimers.  Disability.  Attraction.  Revulsion.  The author went to great pains to pen a human story in the world of monsters, and the result -- while some moments involve too much internal character angst -- is still a well-deserved beast that deserves to be found by a wide audience.<br />The clever moral of the story here is that, through purely inadvertant chance, one monster (terrorists) ultimately unleashed another (Meersohn).  That's a lesson for the ages.	2003-05-31
US	51793127	RR2M7V0BVQ17O	0785263543	646533183	First Strike: Twa Flight 800 and the Attack on America	Books	4	17	23	N	N	Near Miss?	What's most fascinating about FIRST STRIKE is the way that the authors (Cashill and Sanders) effortlessly weave speculation and fact so seamlessly together.  By the outcome, the reader might not be entirely sure of what to believe, but there's no doubt that all of the facts -- on either side of the argument (was it an act of terrorism or unprecedented mechanical failure never before seen in aviation history) -- don't exactly add up neatly.<br />In this investigation of the downing of Flight 800,Cashill and Sanders dramatically reconstruct the event through the use of the unheard of participants -- parents and friends of those who died so tragically, mechanical engineers who tested materials recovered in the crash, even former police and NTSB investigators who played no role other than to enforce how askew the entire handling of the event played out.  Therein lies the greatest fascination of the work; the book works best when it spends time indulging in the thought-processes behind the theories, and it skips along unevently when trying to recount fact after fact after fact.  While the data here largely supports the authors' conclusions, it could've been dissected less succinctly so that it mixed more cohesively with the story of those along for the ride.<br />FIRST STRIKE paints a very vivid picture of the unfortunate politics associated to handling criminal investigations (who's to gain politically, emotionally, and professionally, as well as who's to lose), and the authors deserve much credit for keeping a reader's interest throughout what appears to be 250+ pages of a foregone conclusion.<br />A masterful job, FIRST STRIKE's only shortcoming is the fact that I personally felt that the last few chapters culminated an impression for a follow-up book; however, by the last paragraph, I could only wonder, &quot;What more could there be?&quot;	2003-04-14
US	51793127	R3DIU9674MHUK9	0375414762	449471762	Sir Gawain and the Green Knight: A New Verse Translation	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Literature for the Ages	Merwin has risen to the challenge, and, unlike Gawain, he has prevailed triumphantly on the first stroke.<br />A new, exciting translation of the Arthurian legend, SIR GAWAIN &amp; THE GREEN KNIGHT reads excitingly crisp and vibrant.  A story with equal parts chivalry, temptation, redemption, and romance, Merwin's GAWAIN deserves to be read by a far wider audience or, even better, deserves a touring one-man roadshow presented theatrically.  Easily explored in a single sitting, this clever tome should be required reading for any serious explorer of mythology, real or even the realms of pure fantasy.<br />Highest recommendation!	2003-02-08
US	51793127	R2TJRMLZYH3PIB	0380814730	675942401	Case MJ-12: The True Story Behind the Government's UFO Conspiracies	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Beyond Roswell ... Or Just Out Of Grasp?	Kevin Randle has made a cottage industry out of being the world's foremost expert on the alleged UFO crash at Roswell, New Mexico.  While his two books focusing entirely on the events surrounding one of the cornerstones of America's growing UFO culture (mythology?) are quite good and stand-up very well as fine examples of investigative work lacking from much of the field, his ancillary works tend to be far less focused ... and that's largely because he tries to draw virtually all topics associated to the history of UFOs back to those seminal events from 1947.  It's almost as if the author dismisses the fact that those events -- to date -- have yet to be substantiated.<br />That said, CASE MJ-12 is an admirable attempt to explore the possible origins to literally thousands of pages of supposedly &quot;declassified&quot; evidence linking Roswell and other UFO events to an elite oversight committee long referred to as &quot;Majestic 12&quot; (or &quot;Majik 12&quot; or &quot;Magic 12&quot; or just &quot;Magic,&quot; depending upon whose opinion you accept).  Despite having only seen a &quot;representative sampling&quot; (Randle's term, not mine), he feels compelled and competent to pass judgment over an entire body of paperwork he hasn't examined, and this investigative leap undermines much of his prose.<br />The book reads as if written very quickly.  In fact, there are several long passages that almost appear as 'cut and paste' work, interspersed throughout the tome; interestingly enough, this 'cut-and-paste' is Randle's prime argument against accepting any of the MJ-12 papers as &quot;credible.&quot;  After finishing the work, you'll really understand the man's appreciation of the word &quot;provenance.&quot;<br />Sadly, Randle stumbles in the book's second half, venturing easily into territory all-too-familiar these days in the endeavors of Ufology; he spends a fair portion of text 'bashing' others in the field for their failure to reach the same conclusions he has.  As he's concluded a handful of the MJ papers are fradulent, he believes everyone should.  In this respect, his arguments are weak ... especially given the fact that the foundation of his assertion is predicated on the outcome of a 'word game' played with a retired military officer (Kaufman) who, admittedly, can neither confirm nor deny the said committee's existence.<br />Still, CASE MJ-12 is entertaining in its first half, when Randle is dealing with those MJ 12 papers he has reviewed, and this is definitely worth reading.  In the latter half, he delves (or tries to) into the psychology associated to MJ-12, if such a secret committee existed, and what the political and/or social ramifications would've been.  For those familiar with the events of Roswell, CASE MJ-12 makes for adequate reading.  Randle's insistence on spending time recounting (and recounting and recounting!) the Roswell events sadly grounds the prose; instead, he could've engaged readers with his own speculative theories associated to UFO crash retrievals.<br />For reasons beyond logic, Randle also feels compelled to tack on an extra chapter -- an appendix dealing solely with a con man's hoax associated to a UFO crash in Africa.  Perhaps Randle believed that, by presenting events so obviously fabricated, the thinner of his arguments would be strengthened, but that isn't the way truly inquiring minds really think..  As he's concluded a handful of the MJ papers are fradulent, he believes everyone should.  In this respect, his arguments are weak ... especially given the fact that the foundation of his assertion is predicated on the outcome of a 'word game' played with a retired military officer (Kaufman) who, admittedly, can neither confirm nor deny the said committee's existence.<br />Still, CASE MJ-12 is entertaining in its first half, when Randle is dealing with those MJ 12 papers he has reviewed, and this is definitely worth reading.  In the latter half, he delves (or tries to) into the psychology associated to MJ-12, if such a secret committee existed, and what the political and/or social ramifications would've been.  For those familiar with the events of Roswell, CASE MJ-12 makes for adequate reading.  Randle's insistence on spending time recounting (and recounting and recounting!) the Roswell events sadly grounds the prose; instead, he could've engaged readers with his own speculative theories associated to UFO crash retrievals.<br />For reasons beyond logic, Randle also feels compelled to tack on an extra chapter -- an appendix dealing solely with a con man's hoax associated to a UFO crash in Africa.  Perhaps Randle believed that, by presenting events so obviously fabricated, the thinner of his arguments would be strengthened, but that isn't the way truly inquiring minds really think.	2003-02-01
US	51793127	RY6K9AAERXHQV	1588790231	851119161	PSI Spies	Books	4	22	23	N	Y	Not As Meaty As Marrs Other Work, But ...	Jim Marrs is a cottage industry when it comes to conspiracy writings.<br />He has dealt with the assassination of John F. Kennedy.  He has explored the behind-the-scenes histories and tinkerings of secret societies in their collective bid to control the fate of the planet.  He has even given one fine comprehensive examination to the entire UFO phenomenon that will probably go unmatched in the history of UFO books.<br />In PSI SPIES, he deals with exposing the United States government's covert use of psychic powers (largely remote viewing) in the exploration of handling foreign affairs.  While it's not a truly great book (I thought it lacked some of the depth of his other tomes, and that's largely due to the scraps of true facts and research available on the subject), it is still one fine piece of investigative journalism.<br />It's an important read if for no other reason for the reader to understand -- through the eyes of one of the book's principals -- to what extend a government is willing to reach ... and then attempt everything possible to cover it up in the end.<br />Incidentally, the book probably would've been far more in depth had the US Government not gone to attempting to keep it unpublished.  Marrs has a way of tilting the scales in the direction of truth, so much so that he disturbs those secretly in power, and his books do rattle you to the bones in several places.<br />A must-read for conspiracy fans.  A must-read for fans of the occult, in fact.  And, a must-read for any person seriously interested in knowing the tentacles which clandestine operations try to grasp control of our very lives.	2002-11-28
US	51793127	R3MOH90AQP3DC4	1563891913	603288996	Batman: Knightfall, Part Three: KnightsEnd	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Bats is back!  And this time ... it's personal!	The Batman had been broken by the nefarious Bane, and, while his physical healing process isn't covered in any detail during the events depicted in KNIGHTSEND, Bruce Wayne struggles with the psychological aftermath of returning to the task of serving as Gotham's savior in this incredibly-paced retaking of the Mantle of the Bat from the now rogue Jean Paul Valley.<br />In a story nearly too complex to summarize for an Amazon review, Bruce/Bats goes from being Batman to being disabled to being whole again ... but it isn't without consequence, namely having to face Jean Paul Valley, the man he passed the job of Batman to after being broken down by a series of catastrophic events all orchestrated to end his career.  The road back to mental and physical prowess is long and not without ethical consequences as Bruce submits to training by Lady Shiva, a long-time mortal foe who believes that killing is the only true measure of physical fitness.  However, the world's greatest detective finds a means to even outwit her in the process.<br />Building to a hair-raising climax worthy of being filmed for the big screen, Knightsend features not one daring showdown with the Batman/Azrael Jean Paul Valley but several bare-knuckle brawls involved a fully-healed Bruce Wayne as well as his long-time protege, Dick Grayson ... aka the original Robin and aka Nightwing, a vigilante hero in his own might who's now back in Gotham to help Bruce take by the night.  Catwoman, always a favorite from the Rogues Gallery, is along for the wild ride, and she joins forces with the side of justice in order to see the rightful Batman restored to his throne.<br />This isn't to say that Knightsend isn't without a few missteps ... a perhaps overly-obsessive Jean Paul suffering visions from the System (a kind of brainwashing to give his mind and body the abilities to serve its own brand of justice) almost becomes comical at one point when the visions try to enter into their own subplot ... an all-to-convenient escape from the clutches of death for Bruce Wayne not drawn or plotted very well given the pace of the frenetic conclusion ... and a few other repeated scenes due to the fact that this tale was originally serialized over the course of many issues of comics within the Batman continuity.  Still, they are small missteps, as the grand story is almost operatic at times.<br />The greatest strength of Knightsend is the fact that, at its core, it doesn't deal so much with Batman as it does with identity: in the final confrontation, Bruce Wayne thinks himself out of a corner with Jean Paul bent on fisticuffs-to-the-death, and the one true Batman realizes that brain -- regardless of whose body it resides in -- will always triumph over brawn.<br />Welcome back, Batman!ent escape from the clutches of death for Bruce Wayne not drawn or plotted very well given the pace of the frenetic conclusion ... and a few other repeated scenes due to the fact that this tale was originally serialized over the course of many issues of comics within the Batman continuity.  Still, they are small missteps, as the grand story is almost operatic at times.<br />The greatest strength of Knightsend is the fact that, at its core, it doesn't deal so much with Batman as it does with identity: in the final confrontation, Bruce Wayne thinks himself out of a corner with Jean Paul bent on fisticuffs-to-the-death, and the one true Batman realizes that brain -- regardless of whose body it resides in -- will always triumph over brawn.<br />Welcome back, Batman!	2002-11-13
US	51793127	R248002EYLW6AB	0963746774	793087350	Pentagon Aliens	Books	1	45	72	N	Y	Is This Guy SERIOUS?	I'm not ashamed to admit that I've read more than my fair share of UFO and UFO-related books in my time, but I can't say that I've read one as poorly and unmasterfully written as this.<br />As a business consultant, one of the truths that I teach is that to get ahead in life and/or work, there are ultimately two ways: (1) do your best and let fate show your greatness or (2) do your best to convince your boss that the worker sitting next to you isn't worth a dime.  Now, I'm not saying that I advocate the second option; I'm just saying that playing politics IS a real part of life, and that anyone who isn't conscious of that simple fact will inevitably be blindsided by the workplace backstabber.  The author of PENTAGON SPIES chooses to run Option 2 as the only possible modus operandi; he trashes anyone and everyone who's had any positive association with research in the field of Unidentified Flying Objects for the sole purpose of making himself look more educated and, consequently, his opinions more viable.<br />Who does he think his audience is?  How do you build support for your case by alienating the very people who would purchase your book?  Isn't it obvious why he's never penned a follow-up ... with evidence?<br />While some of the reviewers here have heaped praise on the author's intended debunking of the UFO myth (if it is a myth and I have no problem whatsoever with that opinion), I had a tremendous difficulty in getting past the author's ego.  Virtually every tenth page is a written sidebar of self-indulgence; the author is even so bold as to question why he has been awarded the Nobel Prize in Science for his work.<br />If you're looking for a book written by an obviously egocentric author that doesn't truly address the myriad of evidence to support an opposing view, then this is the book for you.  However, given the fact that the author cannot even present evidence to support his own theory OR stick to the topic OR even develop the topic that he alleges the book is about, then this book will probably have you doing as I did ... throwing it aside of literary garbage after the first 150 pages.<br />I was looking for information, not a massive ego trip.ook is about, then this book will probably have you doing as I did ... throwing it aside of literary garbage after the first 150 pages.<br />I was looking for information, not a massive ego trip.	2002-10-20
US	51793127	R3QIMRF4XTWBR2	1563899159	286559882	Superman: Our Worlds At War - Book 01 (Superman (Graphic Novels))	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Up, Up, and ... Away?	One of the staples to Supes personal history is the fact that he's held to standards that other superheroes might not be able to match ... until now.  Reading Superman say the words, \\"I'm going to kill him,\\" is perhaps the most startling revelation in the two-parter trade paperback OUR WORLDS AT WAR.  Despite some negative reaction from a large part of the Super-fan base, OWAW is a good read but far from great.  It presents a Superman that readers largely haven't seen before, one driven by a passionate instinct for revenge.  While the books do possess some continuity issues, there are parts of the story important to our time: acts of terrorism, good surrendering to evil, the loss of life in times of war, etc.  However, these two books do suffer from one crucial shortcoming that appears to be a growing trend in crossover / trade paperbacks, and that's the fact that the reader might be told of pivotal events several times from differing perspectives ... once from the Superman installment, once from the Young Justice installment, and once from a Wonder Woman installment.  Whereas the end result should be interesting, it's far more confusing here, as some events toward the climax are reviewed slightly out-of-sequence.  That said, a Darkseid story is always welcome at my house, and I enjoyed the pure escapism of a reasonably entertaining Superman story for what it was worth.<br />Would I recommend purchase?  Erg.  These two books are rather pricey for a story that isn't as tightly woven as it could've been.  I would have rather seen the publishers create one volume, with a reasonable price, than two with a slightly higher than necessary pricetag.  Damn capitalism.  Damn commercialism.  If you can get your hands on copies to borrow, I'd take that route first.	2002-10-20
US	51793127	R1IZJEZ7Z83UPK	1563899132	996210454	Batman: Bruce Wayne Murderer?	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Just Read It, Cover to Cover ...	... and I can't tell you how thrilling it is, for a change, to deal with a story that is primarily about what the Batman does best: detection.<br />BRUCE WAYNE: MURDERER is about many things, but on the surface it only poses one question: how far is faith worth following?<br />After a long night of chucking bad guys, Batman and Sasha Bourdeaux (his latest in a growing list of sidekicks) return home ... Sasha a few moments later than her mentor.  However, in one of the upstairs rooms, Vesper Fairchild -- one of Wayne's many conquests -- is found shot to death.  A 911 call circumstantially points all fingers to the billionaire-playboy, and, thus, Batman is thrust behind Blackgate Prison's slim bars ... a place where he's housed so many of the city's treacherous underworld.<br />In the interim, all of the principles in the Batman universe -- Robin, Oracle, Batgirl, and Nightwing, primarily -- are left to explore the possibility of whether or not the man who has meant so much to them in their lifetimes COULD have committed the deed.  Bruce Wayne's not speaking.  He's not declaring his innocence, leaving second-guessing to overcome second nature, and the merry band of Batfamily members will be forever challenged and possibly changed by the graphic novel's climax.<br />Once again, DC Comics has produced evidence that graphic storytelling can be so far advanced than what it has long been considered: folly best left to juveniles.  This book explores adult themes in an entirely adult reality, and the consequences of a single act may irrevocably change the world of Gotham, for better or for worse.  Smartly, the storytellers let the reader decide, and they don't force feed morality down the throat.<br />While BRUCE WAYNE: MURDERER isn't a complete tale (it's only a set-up for a series of events to follow), it could be read as a stand alone tale ... the paradigm has shifted in the Batman universe, and Bruce Wayne -- long considered the true 'mask' character in the playboy/crimefighter duality -- is gone, leaving our hero to face the grim reality of his never-ending battle to free Gotham from the clutches of pure evil.fighter duality -- is gone, leaving our hero to face the grim reality of his never-ending battle to free Gotham from the clutches of pure evil.	2002-08-27
US	51793127	R5NLHBXGX529B	0375421874	364727378	The Minority Report	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Majority Resort ... At Profit	MINORITY REPORT, the inspiration for the latest Spielberg film, is perhaps one of Philip K. Dick's most accessible pieces of short fiction, and it's given the big blockbuster treatment here that it (arguably) deserves ... hardcover format with a clever sideways printing scheme resembling that of a traditional detective's notepad.<br />However, despite the popularity (or not) of the film, this item is really intended for Dick's hardcore fans.  Those people drawn to it for the film might be disappointed in the significant differences from film to print (isn't that always the case?), or they might just discover one of science fiction's most memorable authors.<br />Still, MINORITY REPORT always worked best for me b/c it was a short story: Dick's longer works tend to be very cerebral at times, while his shorter tales do possess a stronger feel targeting a mass audience.  It's a brisk read that draws only a few parallels with the film (thankfully); instead of posing and focusing on an infinite series of sociological themes, it hits the ground running very quickly and lets the reader make his/her mind up as the tale unfolds about whether or not the moral issue of punishment associated to Precrime is praiseworthy or laughable.<br />In Dick's world, there is little gray.	2002-08-01
US	51793127	R3HG5C0BQGF5J2	0679733973	697417133	The Killer Inside Me	Books	4	47	55	N	N	The Killer Inside Jim Thompson	While some of the impact of this tale has tempered in time (it was originally published in 1952), the stark brutality of the narrator draws you in slowly ... and the novel's first 150 pages are relatively slow-paced ... until the reader comes to the full realization that Officer Lou Ford isn't committing the acts of violence that he does out of any other need than to feed the killer inside him.<br />The last forty to fifty pages of this book are captivatingly brilliant prose -- arguably the best by Mr. Thompson -- and should be carefully read (if not reread) by serious fans of mystery or noir as well as budding mystery, thriller, and suspense writers.  They serve not only as a character study into the mind of a madman who finally understand what he is but also give a definitive explanation into why the narrator will never accept what he's done (the people he's killed, those he's punished, etc.) as being morally wrong.<br />All in all, it's one damn fascinating character study that takes a while to get going ... but, once it does, it's one wild ride.	2002-07-01
US	51793127	R1X7ET7Y00CL9B	0684867672	720109250	The Five Minute Iliad Other Instant Classics: Great Books For The Short Attention Span	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Is DEFINITELY Hysterical If ...	... you've read the classic upon which the 5-minute translation is based.  If you haven't, THE 5-MINUTE ILIAD AND OTHER INSTANT CLASSICS still provide plenty of merriment -- with maybe a touch of confusion.  (In particular, Bram Stoker's &quot;Dracula&quot; is an absolute howler and George Orwell's &quot;1984&quot; might even have you running to pick up a copy of the original to find all of the hints.)  While a few of the 'instant classics' do feel like one-note jokes that go on for several pages, it's still all in good fun at no one's expense ... other than a few of civilization's most revered authors.  Nagan's observation's about Western Civilization and the expanse of its subsequent culture, however, are perhaps the finest notes of pure mirth in the book ... I'd almost wish he'd dedicate a book to that subject alone!	2002-06-18
US	51793127	R35ODNXMJ3D5UN	0385499094	875297371	Akhenaten: Dweller in Truth A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Akhenaten ... aka Citizen Kane?	In all truth, very little is known and can be asserted as fact surrounding the lives of ancient Egypt's ruling couple, Akhenaten and Nefertiti.  Arguably, they may be a pair of history's most elusive figures ... yet, Ahhenaten is the more intriguing of the two.<br />In trying to tell the story of the Pharoah so little is known about, Mahfouz employs a narrative not unlike that of one of film's most revered projects, CITIZEN KANE: a narrator -- a young man, perhaps a budding scholar -- begins by asking his father about the recently deceased king, and his father suggests that the true story could best be told by those who knew him well ... the surviving members of the royal party.  Curiosity propels our narrator to visit a host of Akhenaten's supporters and detractors, ending with a conversation from even the exiled queen, Nefertiti.<br />However, is it truth ... or is it fiction?<br />As is the case with KANE, the reader ends up learning more about the psyche of the tale's teller (those who knew Akhenaten best) than we do the late king.  The pieces of the puzzle do provide a fascinating look, nonetheless, at Akhenaten.  Was he a visionary?  Was he a heretic?  Was he a scholar and artist, or was he driven to do what he did -- changing the complete worship structure of Egypt to one God instead of many -- out of madness?<br />A work of excellence by a scholar on the subject, AKHENATEN, DWELLER IN TRUTH is highly recommended for any students of ancient history, archaeology, and perhaps even conspiracies.  We may never know all regarding the 'heretic king,' but Mahfouz brings us close enough to believing that we were there.	2002-05-07
US	51793127	RNT5VHRPLM2AC	074343434X	486466475	The Battle of Betazed (Star Trek: the Next Generation)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Betazed Unbridled!!!	Among the shrinking legion of people who will publicly admit to being fans of Paramount Pictures' most enduring franchise, STAR TREK, a good read typically consists of a villain worth the 'boos' and 'hisses,' relative character development, and a wealth of phasers 'set to kill.'  (Note: these are not 'bad things' but, rather, just notable benchmarks for a successful Trek book.)  Charlotte Douglas and Susan Kearney's long-awaited and much-ballyhooed THE BATTLE OF BETAZED succeeds on those levels and those levels only.  Playing out much like an unproduced episode of 'The Next Generation' filling in the historical gap and answering the question of \\"What was the Enterprise-E up to during the Dominion War?\\"<br />The Good<br />Douglas & Kearney (D&K) move their BATTLE along at breakneck pace, introducing the reader to new characters and situations with a subtle grace.  To a Trekker's delight, D&K grasp of the characteristics and mannerisms of TNG's principle players are thankfully at a master's level (with the notable exception of the underused Dr. Beverly Crusher).  These characters breath; they are lifted off the page and easily imprinted on the reader's mind, transforming the tale that is told into an adventure well worth the time invested.<br />The Bad<br />However, the expediency with which D&K hampers any serious exploration of the events taking place.  An entire escape attempt appears all too easy, as it is reduced to a few paragraphs.<br />For purposes of expediting the plot, D&K reduced the competency of the fierce Jem'Hadar soldiers to the level of airport securing prior to the tragic events of September,11, 2001.  These genetically-bred soldiers seemingly have forgotten how to be truly menacing and, instead, are portrayed as victims to a lesser species (the Cardassians) torturous mind-altering experiments; once telepathically incapacitated, they even turn their weapons on themselves, killing upwards to 15,000 of their own kind.<br />The Ugly<br />As has sadly been the case in TNG's movie outings and their series run, Dr. Beverly Crusher is afforded little time and appears highly qualified in making such plot-shattering diagnoses (\\"If we move him any further, he'll be dead\\") without the use of proper medical equipment.  Throughout the mission to retake Betazed, her character reads as if D&K tossed her in for a single, viable purpose; once her goal has been accomplished, she's given only a cursory mention in passing.<br />D&K's creation of Hent Tevren, a long-hidden Betazed secret, doesn't appear to be much of a secret to the inhabitants of the world.  Virtually every member of the Betazed Resistance seems to know about him and his serial killer ability -- to murder with a mere thought.  Strongly reminiscent of one of literature's more formidable lunatics (Harris's Hannibal Lechter), Tevren's personality gravitates awkwardly and haphazardly between 'arch nemesis' and 'snivelling coward'; his only redemption in the book is the fact that his talents do provide the Resistance with the secret to eventually defeat the Occupation forces.<br />The Last Word<br />Still, despite minor flaws, the book is a brisk read that fits the bill for entertainment.  Amicable, if not admirable, THE BATTLE OF BETAZED is a war worth waging.een the case in TNG's movie outings and their series run, Dr. Beverly Crusher is afforded little time and appears highly qualified in making such plot-shattering diagnoses (\\"If we move him any further, he'll be dead\\") without the use of proper medical equipment.  Throughout the mission to retake Betazed, her character reads as if D&K tossed her in for a single, viable purpose; once her goal has been accomplished, she's given only a cursory mention in passing.<br />D&K's creation of Hent Tevren, a long-hidden Betazed secret, doesn't appear to be much of a secret to the inhabitants of the world.  Virtually every member of the Betazed Resistance seems to know about him and his serial killer ability -- to murder with a mere thought.  Strongly reminiscent of one of literature's more formidable lunatics (Harris's Hannibal Lechter), Tevren's personality gravitates awkwardly and haphazardly between 'arch nemesis' and 'snivelling coward'; his only redemption in the book is the fact that his talents do provide the Resistance with the secret to eventually defeat the Occupation forces.<br />The Last Word<br />Still, despite minor flaws, the book is a brisk read that fits the bill for entertainment.  Amicable, if not admirable, THE BATTLE OF BETAZED is a war worth waging.	2002-04-08
US	51793127	RRFK3HJCPA42L	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	2	11	14	N	N	Move Along, Nothing To See Here	Having read a virtual smorgasbord of books across all spectrum of subjects, I happened into a copy of Ms. Hamilton's GUILTY PLEASURES on the recommendation of a friend ... and I have to admit that I don't understand what all of the fascination is about.<br />Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter (which she really isn't, by her own admission), goes about her business of serving the living and the dead, as the world has descended into a place where even zombies can have a Congressional lobby.  While this might seem a bit of fun for some readers, I found the humor to be lost on a style that's all to reminiscent of the FLETCH series of books.<br />If Ms. Hamilton accomplishes anything with tremendous depth here, it is to underscore that the seminal rule taught by high school grammar teachers everywhere (\\"do NOT write sentences in fragments\\") doesn't apply to hot-selling authors, as GUILTY PLEASURES is easily 65% fragments.  It's not so much style as it is 'smartass,' and, after a while, I found it more distracting than inventive.<br />Still, the characters are lively drawn, if not derivative of works elsewhere.  Anita Blake is a wonder to behold ... or not, depending upon what your tastes in a woman are.<br />Minimally, I think Anne Rice and the fine folks behind BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER might feel '...' if they were to happen across these GUILTY PLEASURES.	2002-03-08
US	51793127	R2PMSJSICZW9EI	1569714819	171716005	Sin City: Hell and Back (Book 7)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Sin-Lite, With A Touch More Violence	When Frank Miller roared onto the comics' scene with SIN CITY, I was one happy camper.  Being a huge fan of Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer and other hard-boiled fare, I recognized the cast of characters populating Basin City for what they were ... modern day incarnations of the shucksters and flimflammers hopping from one job to the next, scraping away what life they could from dime to dime.<br />While the first SIN CITY held much to delight and paid tremendous homage to the pulps of the 30s & 40s, Miller's contributions was becoming downright formulaic by the third outing.<br />However, TO HELL AND BACK is closer in tone and quality to the first SIN CITY than perhaps any of the others.  While it still can't hold a candle to the original \\"Marv,\\" it's a quick read with dames a'plenty.  I think Frank's obsession with the male penis has gone a tad overboard, though, as this macabre cast of characters all get to bare their Johnsons.<br />It's not a kindler, gentler SIN, but it's not far from home either.	2002-02-28
US	51793127	R1R7ALQTWDWUFM	1563898713	331222438	The Dark Knight Strikes Again (Part 2 of 3)	Books	1	10	15	N	N	Has Frank Miller Lost His Mind?	Fifteen years ago, Frank Miller blazed onto the Batscene with THE DARK KNIGHT RETURNS, an important work that not only brought new life to an aging and retired Bruce Wayne but also forced the comic book industry to grow up ... and, consequently, he reinvigorated the industry to the level of an art form.<br />Fifteen years later, methinks Frank has lost his mind.<br />The first installment of THE DARK KNIGHT STRIKES AGAIN was gratuitous in its portrayal of violence for the sake of violence, but, in this second issue (of three), the ensuing chaos surrounding Batman's return from a self-imposed retirement (once more) is nothing but stupid silliness.  The tale focuses on the return of not just the Bats but an entire slew of superheroes ... who've been where?  While he chooses not to tell us EXACTLY, he does hint that the world has become a kinder, gentler place under the totalitarian reign of Superman.<br />It will be interesting to see if Frank's reputation emerges from this outing unscathed.  One would think it ironic that the same character who really put Frank Miller on the cultural map might very well be the same character that puts the nail in his coffin.<br />THE DARK KNIGHT STRIKES AGAIN #2 is to be avoided ... at all costs.	2002-02-21
US	51793127	R3UCAA72CEVBVL	096318895X	655510447	The Philadelphia Experiment Murder: Parallel Universes and the Physics of Insanity	Books	4	53	59	N	Y	Well, If It Isn't True, It's Still A Captivating Yarn	Don't get me wrong: I love a great conspiracy read, and THE PHILADELPHIA EXPERIMENT MURDER succeeds grandly on that level.<br />Alexandra Bruce goes to great lengths to summarize the Philadelphia Experiment while juxtaposing that factline with the unexplainable death of not one but two key figures in the mythology associated to the famous experiment taking place aboard USS Eldridge (or did it?).  Of course, facts are hard to come by, in this day and age, but the author does an exceptional job places the puzzle pieces together in a coherent fashion ... with perhaps only a few pieces missing.<br />The mysterious death of Paul Schneider (murder or suicide?) provides the true backbone to this read, the death closely following his jaunt on the convention circuit talking about the Philadelphia Experiment, the Dulce Wars, and the U.S. governments secret network of underground bases.  A tried and true journalist might tear the book to shred over the lack of proof associated to the read, but therein lies the appeal to TPEM: did the Philadelphia Experiment happen or did it not AND, if it did, what was the relationship to what appears to be an obvious cover-up of what should have been a relatively routine murder investigation?<br />While the 'Physics of Insanity' portion of the book veers off course of bit from the main thrust of the text, Ms. Bruce manages to pull it all into focus in her closing chapters, catapulting the reader to a broader level of understanding how or why the government might have a tactical need to keep whatever did or did not happen a secret.<br />Sound confusing?  Some of it may be, but Ms. Bruce creates an easily accessible account that kept me glued to the pages.<br />A few parts of the book are a bit meaty, and, in all honesty, I would've rather seen a more expansive attempt to get to the bottom of the mysterious deaths ... but, as is common in conspiracy literature, those trails rarely lead to rewarding conclusions or destinations.  Still, TPEM is well worth a glance, if for no greater purpose than to set straight some of the misconceptions surrounding the USS Eldridge, Albert Einstein, Nikolai Tesla, and the infamous Area 51.ell worth a glance, if for no greater purpose than to set straight some of the misconceptions surrounding the USS Eldridge, Albert Einstein, Nikolai Tesla, and the infamous Area 51.	2002-02-07
US	51793127	R23N63XQXVEF18	0806506695	199695903	Cliffhanger : A Pictorial History of the Motion Picture Serial	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Excellent Reference &amp; Source Guide	Barbour's book (probably not the definitive on the subject of the classic movie serials) is an outstanding reference compendium and source guide for cinema's golden age.  The edition clearly outlines an entire host of serials that appeared on the silver screen during the motion picture business's infancy, and the author even goes to great length (where the information is available) to credit the serials various inspirations throughout the ensuing years.  Additionally (a great pleasure for this movie viewer), CLIFFHANGER is replete with black and white photos (excellent reproductions from the original negatives) of major characters and serials from this vintage era.  A truly wonderful and inspiring book, penned clearly by an author with a love of the subject material.	2002-02-01
US	51793127	RSM0RROXKBHT1	0451165926	857750104	I, the Jury (Mike Hammer)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The First and The Best	Mike Hammer has never been told so boldly, so brazenly as he was here by the master of the dime novel mystery, Mickey Spillane.  This should be standard reading for any man's man as well as standard fair on any pure study of American literature.  Mickey Spillane's prose ranks at the highest of its form, bar none, and there are very few novels that narrative points come down to the last sentence of the book.<br />This is a must for any serious fan of mystery fiction, whether you prefer your private eyes hard-boiled or not, and this should be on any serious men's literature list.<br />Trust me.  &quot;It was easy.&quot;	2002-01-30
US	51793127	R3HP8JGGSKEYFM	0671726331	857750104	I the Jury	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stacy Keach Is Still In Top Form Here	That's right, bub.<br />Stacy Keach.  The actor who played Mike Hammer in the CBS television series.  He's the narrator of this, the first and best of the Mike Hammer tales penned by the master himself, Mickey Spillane.<br />An awesome listen to one of America's finest novels.	2002-01-30
US	51793127	R1D0OKNHADHQZ2	1563890607	202873472	Batman: Bride of the Demon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	In The Words Of Indiana Jones: "Trust me."	Mike Barr penned a few of the seminal works of the Bat, all centering around Batman and his strange relationship to Ras al Ghul and his beautiful daughter, Talia.  If you can get your hands on these works, you will not be disappointed.  While they do have an almost James Bond quality to the story, they deliver exactly what the Best Batfiction should: action, detective work, one helluva great villain, and a morality play within it all.  BRIDE OF THE DEMON is well worth the investment.	2002-01-24
US	51793127	R3QRDXLC9Q3657	156389100X	300319002	Batman: Sword of Azrael (Prelude to Knightfall)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	One of Denny O'Neil's Finest	THE SWORD OF AZRAEL really plays out more as an unintended prequel to the events of Batman's KNIGHTFALL, and it's a far superior work of art.  Jean-Paul Valley is troubled by his inability to master the control over his superhero impulses to become an avenging angel, until Bruce Wayne enters his life.  This four-issue collected trade paperback is a must for any serious fan of the Bat, and, even today, stands as an example of one of the best works of Batfiction available.  (As well, there was a BBC adaptation of KNIGHTFALL that covered some of the events of AZRAEL that's absolutely breathtaking!)	2002-01-24
US	51793127	R2QIUN2EJJMKRU	1563891425	37503425	Batman: Knightfall Part One: Broken Bat	Books	3	4	8	N	N	This Story's Been Done Better Elsewhere	While breathtaking in scope, the entire saga of KNIGHTFALL feels like one elongated retread of a work done far superior elsewhere.  Many of the events occuring throughout the year-long tale are irrelevant to the overall impact of the story.  While it was interesting to see another person wear the mantle of the Bat for a time, the urbanized Batman grew cliched rather quickly in his vicious responses to Bat's Rogues Gallery of criminals.  That and the noticeable absense of Nightwing from the majority of the adventures leaves many moments with an overwhelming sense of 'ho hum.'  Still, the saga climaxes with little fisticuffs, a nice irony in transforming Bruce Wayne back into the part-detective, part-vigilante that occupies his very soul.	2002-01-24
US	51793127	R2RFY74LLRIRB6	0743448715	30837768	By the Book (Star Trek (Unnumbered Paperback))	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Was This REALLY Worth A First Outing?	One of the significant criteria which John Ordover, over at the Pocket Books (Trek Books publisher), states for writers considering penning a Trek novel is that &quot;you should write something that couldn't be done on the small screen.&quot;  In other words, what would be the purpose in writing a book that could, in fact, be just another episode?  He wants the writer to take the reader somewhere else, into worlds unexplored and parts unknown ... so how did BY THE BOOK meet those standards?  Giving a gracious nod to RPG so prevalent throughout the web, the authors devise a scenario surrounding Captain Archer and the crew of the Enterprise's first contact with not one but two species and it goes horribly wrong until they fashion a device which allows Archer to communicate telepathically with the more intelligent of the two species and then ... nothing happens.  While the book sports a wonderful conversation between Archer and his Vulcan Subcommander T'Pol on the nature of 'first contact' situations, the tale invests little in characterization, plot, and surprise.  There is little awe in the experience of meeting new civilizations for the first time; rather, there is an exhaustive examination of their architecture and how it relates to the way the think ... while it's interesting, it encompasses too much of the book.  Lastly, this installment FEELS as though it was a script submitted but rejected by Paramount b/c it didn't meet Ordover's criteria: it shows us nothing new.	2002-01-19
US	51793127	RXAZWOFWM7HCV	0812576462	524593072	Ship of the Damned	Books	2	4	6	N	N	More than just a bit lost at sea ...	Being a bit of a closet afficianado (sp?) on the Philadelpha Experiment, I picked up SHIP OF THE DAMNED with high hopes ... and perhaps that was my undoing.  Had I left my expectations at the door, I might've enjoyed the read a bit more than the 2-star rating, but, unfortunately, the author composes very short, almost terse chapters that do little to stimulate the imagination; rather, he just pushes the plot along.  As his prose and storytelling style has been placed on par with Tom Clancy by some reviewer, I think it's a dramatic overstatement.  Mr. David attacks his story with an almost &quot;look, ma, I can write&quot; mentality, giving very little depth to his characters or the events they fantastically find themselves caught up in.  It's high on plot and low on facts and science, so leave the brain at the door if you want to enjoy this ride on the SHIP OF THE DAMNED.	2002-01-07
US	51793127	R1WR40YI6GZFVB	1887576002	244728926	The Illustrated Life and Times of Doc Holliday	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Stunning overview	While one could argue that some of the finer points of the personal history (or should we say 'mystery') surrounding the life of Doc Holliday didn't get enough attention in this tome, THE ILLUSTRATED LIFE &amp; TIMES OF DOC HOLLIDAY is a feast for Holliday enthusiasts as well as general fans of the Old West.  The book is filled with what must be hundreds of portraits, artists' renderings, maps, etc., that only enhance the value of the book.  A quick and entertaining read, this version of Doc's life is a wonderful overview and is highly recommended for anyone wanting to 'jump off' into studying the fascinating man who may or may not have been Doc Holliday.	2001-06-27
US	51793127	R2PTEZU88MP6ZY	0967782309	950454190	The Possible Woman	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Utter tripe.	Useless drivel by a terribly dated author who supports empowerment of only women in the workplace.  Is this author living in the Dark Ages with the roles reversed?  It's interesting to note that the two endorsements are also noted in the book as &quot;paid&quot; contributors.  Don't waste your time.	2001-04-18
US	51793127	R28SDSK9OCMITC	0440236479	929829303	Dark Object: The World's Only Government-Documented UFO Crash	Books	1	18	23	N	N	What?!  A book?!	Maybe I'm jaded by having read so many other far superior books documenting information about alleged UFO crashes, sightings, abductions, etc., but DARK OBJECT read more like an overlong pamphlet than it did a book.  The authors attempt at research is basically reduced to a series of telephone conversations, eyewitness interviews, and newspaper clipping summaries that add up to nothing.  In the final chapter, they make the allegation that not only was one saucer downed, but there were two!  It read like bad fiction, more than a hard core examination of what evidence was available.  The cover speaks of officials denying the events contained within, but the authors didn't discuss anyone who denied anything!  They just didn't want to talk about it.  Go reread ALIEN AGENDA.	2001-04-01
US	51793127	RKXOV23NPBG2L	0671035827	992426487	Cloak and Dagger (Star Trek Voyager, No 19, Dark Matters Book One of Three)	Books	1	7	11	N	N	DARK MATTERS Doesn't Matter	Sadly, this is a misfire for Christie Golden, who has previously turned in some stellar work on the Star Trek VOYAGER series for Pocket Books.  The intriguing return of one of VOYAGER's (TV series) more enduring cameos, Romulan scientist Telek R'Mor, is quickly besmirched when we learn that this humble scientist some poignantly and heart-tuggingly played in a television episode is actually one of Romulus's leading scientific minds!  That, and he's agreed to wage a campaign against the USS Voyager!  This simple characterization bastardizes everything that the viewing audience came to respect from so richly drawn a character, and, for that, Ms. Golden should be ashamed.  Utter misfires and cliches aside, the reader is left to a seemingly incomprehensible plot that can have no meaningful nor realistic scientific conclusion.  DARK MATTERS is a territory best left unexplored.	2000-11-26
US	51793127	RAC9M7O280JKX	0671024035	515725949	Inferno (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, Millennium Book 3 of 3)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Wow ... dying embers tarnish near-epic INFERNO	Shame, shame, shame ...<br />Without giving away the ending, it's hard to write a review of the book and remain impartial, but I will say that the readers are, perhaps, cheated by one of the shoddiest 'outs' in Trek/book history.<br />The first two-thirds of this novel is incredible, building up to a climax that isn't so much an INFERNO (a title never really explained literally nor metaphorically although one could substitute a variety of interpretations) as it is a dying campfire.<br />Characterizations are dead on accurate (accept for a bit over the top Quark and Vic Fontaine, who spouts more than one-too-many pallies ... in fact, if Vic had behaved the way the book portrays him, the clever and thoughtful residences of DS9 would've probably deprogrammed him).<br />Sad ending to what could've been an epic conclusion.	2000-09-25
US	51793127	R2UBBU9HNU125E	0671024019	991707493	The Fall of Terok Nor (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, Millennium Book 1 of 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE FALL OF TEROK NOR ... the rise of a great Trek saga	Told with, perhaps, not as much depth as some of the other tales by Judith &amp; Garfield Reeves-Stevens, THE FALL OF TEROK NOR starts out very, very slowly but does deliver with an unbelievably-exciting climax to set up the  second book (already on the shelves in the states).<br />Arguably, this  writing team go to great lengths to preserve the characters that make up  the Trek universe, and THE FALL OF TEROK NOR is no example otherwise.  All  of your favorites from DS9 -- including an even impromptu but somewhat  shoddily written cameo by Vic Fontaine -- appear in your mind's eye as they  would on the small screen.<br />The story?  There isn't much that could be  disclosed without ruining it for those who want to take a good Trek:  suffice it to say that THE FALL OF TEROK NOR deals with the end of all life  as we know it!<br />Excellent reading.	2000-07-26
US	51793127	RZ1400BBSYUXU	0671021257	519262866	Star Trek: Preserver	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A return from ASHES	Shatner's books (ghost-written with the Reeves-Stevens) do stand apart  from the other Trek books ... but since THE ASHES OF EDEN, the books have  paled by comparison to one another.<br />PRESERVER re-establishes Captain Kirk  to his proper place in the Trek mythos ... and it re-establishes the team  of Shatner, Judith &amp; Garfield Reeves-Stevens to their place of  authority in the Trek publishing circle.<br />PRESERVER is, at times,  befuddling and frustrating ... much like the lessons of life, the one  central theme in all of the book.  It's a tale told at a brisk pace and a  narration rising to an incredible climax ... making the reader question,  much like Captain James T. Kirk does better than any other fictional  character his age, &quot;what precisely are we here for?&quot;<br />An  excellent read.	2000-07-10
US	51793127	R22TOUGHEFKWQA	0735201633	940923787	Cigars, Whiskey and Winning: Leadership Lessons from General Ulysses S. Grant	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Immensely fascinating	The quickest 300+ page book I've ever read!  Great adaptation of the U.S. Grant biographical information applied to serious management methodology ... a masterpiece.	2000-06-28
US	51793127	RQ05I6KK1FXYT	0671039571	832258732	The Badlands, Book 1 (Star Trek)	Books	1	2	5	N	N	Badlands ... Bad start	Susan Wright does an affable job telling us NO story, only postulating events that lead up to what Book 2 promises to be a thrilling conclusion.  Book 1 proposes a mysterious threat located in the area of outer space  known as the Badlands ... and that's about it.  With part of the story told  in the Star Trek TOS timeframe and then another part in Star Trek TNG,  that's all we're given ... no memorable characters and almost laughably  forgettable dialogue.  Many scenes almost read like filler, written last  minute to expand the book to a required word length.  It's curious how this  story, out of the multitude of ideas that are probably submitted to Pocket  Books, made it past the editorial staff.  The only positive assessment I  can add is that it was a quick read.	2000-03-28
US	51793127	RYB6OYVJ0KWDD	1879706504	503982230	The Source	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Quite a re-SOURCE	Sometime nebulous ... sometimes prolific ... THE SOURCE is a conglomeration of a variety of topics that could have been (and have been) dealt with better as individual books.  However, the premise of the book  warrants combining these sometimes disparate elements into one compelling  theme.  If you believe the ending, it will change the way that you look at  your world.	2000-02-23
US	51793127	R56PHNKSFVC5F	0394758285	849452523	The Big Sleep (A Philip Marlowe Novel)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	VINTAGE CRIME FICTION DOESN'T GET ANY BETTER	'Nuff said.  Raymond Chandler was at the top of his form (in my opinion) when he penned this tale.  While the Phillip Marlowe tales that followed were wonderfully exquisite as well, they all paled in comparison to the  original.  Should be on the top 100 books to read in your lifetime.	1999-12-11
US	51793127	RUMUPV0UBDQSS	0671686321	137453395	The STAR TREK THE LOST YEARS (Star Trek: The Original Series)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Excellent companion to TOS series end	THE LOST YEARS answers some of the most often asked question's regarding the original series:  what happened after the five year mission ended?  It's outstanding premise keeps the regulars together (somewhat), and it  creatively hints toward the fact that this isn't the last we'll see of the  crew of the Enterprise.  Fascinating!	1999-12-11
US	51793127	R1WNUQ4UCKQUUB	0553571788	965174342	Jesse: A Novel of the Outlaw Jesse James	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Twain &amp; James ... Magnificent!	While the novel doesn't shed any light on the ambiguity surrounding the death of the infamous Jesse James, the tale that Jesse weaves (purportedly  to Mark Twain) leaves one feeling sorry if not compassionate for the  outlaw, despite his nefarious deeds.  Without having read any other  biographical accounts of the life of Jesse James, I can only say that Max  McCoy crafted a crisp, entertaining read that seemed to be 'the real  McCoy.'  Kick back &amp; enjoy!	1999-11-02
