US	51804428	R15O651V4UHIHB	1586482548	79841872	Like a Rolling Stone: Bob Dylan at the Crossroads	Books	3	20	25	N	N	Overblown	I have read (elsewhere) that at the height of his reign as King of Greenwich Village in 1963-64, Bob Dylan literally couldn't order lunch without fans looking for a deeper meaning in his words.  \\"Gimme a ham and cheese on pumpernickel, hold the mayo, please.\\"  \\"What does he MEAN by that?\\"  After reading this book, I have to wonder if Greil Marcus was among those who were so obsessed. <br /> <br />Which is not to say I didn't like the book.  Marcus' evocation of what transpired in Columbia's Studio A on June 16, 1965 is quite possibly the best account I've ever read of any recording session.  He really makes a gallant effort not only to describe the atmosphere at the creation of \\"Like A Rolling Stone\\" down to its minor details, but to demonstrate how many seemingly irrelevant circumstances played as much of a part in the song's greatness as the words and chords did.  I would have liked to hear more about how Al Kooper (whom Marcus interviewed extensively for the book) created his fabled organ riff out of scratch, reportedly without having ever played the instrument before; but of course that subject has been covered extensively elsewhere.   <br /> <br />Marcus' analysis of the music as well as the words is also impressive, although sometimes he necessarily resorts to \\"it's just brilliant because it is.\\"  In discussing the gunshot-like drumbeat that opens the song, he acknowledges that numerous other songs have used the same effect (notably The Beatles' \\"Any Time at All,\\" which preceded \\"Like A Rolling Stone\\" by almost a year, and Dylan's own \\"From a Buick 6\\"), but concludes, \\"I am sticking to my guns.  There is nothing like it.\\"  I agree, and I must admit I couldn't explain why any better than Marcus does. <br /> <br />The problem is, none of this occurs until about 80 pages into the book.  Before that point, there are some interesting thoughts on earlier works like \\"Bob Dylan's 115th Dream;\\" but you also have to slog through a chapter length recount of Dylan's movie, \\"Masked and Anonymous,\\" which is unnecessary if you've seen the movie and impenetrable if you haven't.  His setting of the stage for the music world that \\"Like A Rolling Stone\\" changed is also less than convincing.  Yes, as he notes, the top 40 in the spring of 1965 had its share of inanities from the likes of Herman's Hermits and Gary Lewis and the Playboys.  But every era in music history has produced some wonderful songs and some terrible ones, and there's nothing unusual about the latter being the bigger hits.  (If anything, the `60s probably had the lowest rate of that unfortunate phenomenon in rock history.)  \\"Like A Rolling Stone\\" was magnificent, but it wasn't nearly that earth-shattering. <br /> <br />The book rambles on for about 50 pages after the story behind the song, but what follows is more worthy than what came before.  His account of Dylan's 1965-66 tour is quite good, and if he sheds no new light on the \\"Did they boo him at Newport?\\" controversy, he also doesn't repeat any of the many discredited rumors about that fateful performance.  His analysis of \\"Desolation Row\\" is also terrific, if not really relevant to the book's official subject. <br /> <br />It's worth reading, but be prepared to want to yell \\"A sandwich is just a sandwich, Mr. Marcus!\\" on occasion. <br />	2005-09-02
US	51804428	R1FMQ473S2G8OI	0020199856	737772058	The Love of the Last Tycoon	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Incomplete is incomplete	I have no doubt that The Last Tycoon would have warranted at least one more star if Fitzgerald had lived to finish it.  But like it or not, we have no way of knowing what he would have written and can only judge the merits of what he did write.  And that, in any case, is still pretty good.  It is definitely a departure from his earlier works, and a tantalizing taste of what he might have continued to do with his talent later on.  The images of Southern California back when it was a nice place to live are wonderful, as is the behind-the-scenes look at the movie industry during its golden era.   <br /> <br />This is also the only Fitzgerald work I know of in which the narrator is a woman, and it's defnitely fascinating to see how he went about that exercize.  Cecilia Brady is just about as egotistical and cynical as most of his other protagonists, but her innocence is refreshing.  Also, telling the story through the eyes of one just outside the loop of the movie industry (she's the daughter of one producer, and hopelessly in love with another) was a very clever move.  It allowed the plot to develop around the personal life of Cecilia's crush, Monroe Stahr, with only a bit of the bitterness from his work-related troubles seeping through. <br /> <br />But the sad truth is that that plot had only begun to develop.  We know far more about Monroe Stahr from the notes and sketches Fitzgerald never intended for publication than we do from the \\"finished\\" part of the novel (which wasn't entirely finished either).  If nothing else, though, this was a great start.  As long as you don't expect more than that, it's worth reading.	2005-06-06
US	51804428	R19L3PGP6YMBFV	0060199393	852996073	After the Ball: Gilded Age Secrets, Boardroom Betrayals, and the Party That Ignited the Great Wall Street Scandal of 1905	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Can't wait to see the movie	A well-researched history book that reads like a novel is a rare find, but this is one.  In an era when corporate greed and corruption are once again a part of everyday life, it's also a nice reminder of where years of deregulation and laissez-faire policies got us last time.  James Hazen Hyde was a product of that time:  spoiled, overly entitled, shamelessly extravagant in a city where poverty was widespread, and fond of business practices that have since been made illegal.  But he was also the victim of even greedier - and smarter - associates, and Beard does a great job of portraying a rather unsympathetic character sympathetically. <br /> <br />Hyde's downfall seems to have been a lack of ambition or interest in learning the business he inherited, coupled with an overeagerness to reap the benefits of his father's financial success.  Illustrating the latter is the party that serves as the book's climax, an incomprehensibly extravagant affair by the standards of any era.  Beard argues that Hyde's detractors had already been hoping for years to bring him down, and the ball simply served as a welcome excuse to do so.  Whether she's right or wrong about that, the event certainly proved to be fertile ground for scandal.  In a classic case of \\"the truth is never juicy enough,\\" rumors began circulating that Hyde had paid for the ball with company funds (he hadn't) and that the already-obscene cost was four times as much as it really was.  Despite being guilty of nothing worse than bad taste, Hyde was soon bought out of his father's company and out of Wall Street society.  Investigations and reform legislation followed, but those who were guilty of real wrongdoing were never punished. <br /> <br />Beard's overview of the financial events and disputes will probably be too simple for those with a strong knowledge of finance and business, but it's perfect for the rest of us.  In any case, she is clearly more interested in Gilded Age high society and how it set the stage forJames Hyde and his party, and her research in that area is impressive.  The era's many excesses leap off the pages, with various Vanderbilts and Roosevelts making cameos throughout, making the greed and injustice palpable without anything approaching preachiness.  Hyde himself becomes a somewhat tragic figure, living off his inheritance in Europe, outliving the damage to his reputation but emerging as a walking anachronism on his return to New York in the 1940s. <br /> <br />Sad, but very well done!	2005-03-21
US	51804428	R2U4WXE4PNFYEO	0879307579	322944819	45 RPM: The History, Heroes, and Villains of a Pop Music Revolution	Books	4	13	13	N	N	For all the real-life Shrevies out there	Shrevie, the obsessive record collector in the movie \\"Diner,\\" gets a well deserved mention in the introduction to this book.  And it's the perfect book for those of us who are like him.  You know who you are - you know the subtle logo variations on your favorite record labels and the years they occurred, the B sides and the hits that started as B sides (a list of which is included here), the imperfections in the vinyl on your copy and maybe even how they got there.  This is for you! <br />The title and cover of the book are slightly misleading.  This is not a cultural history of the 45 or of rock and roll music, although it touches on both at some length.  It's more of a technical guide to various topics, such as the 45's place in the music business, the circumstances that led to its debut in 1949, and its role in the rise of small independent labels and of rock and roll.  There are also chapters on how 45s are made and how they have changed in the past half-century, as well as the stories behind some of the more unlikely hits of the rock era.  Newer collectors will definitely want to read the chapter on the \\"holy grail of 45 collecting,\\" the Five Sharps' \\"Stormy Weather\\" (no known copies on the 7\\" format and maybe there never were any, but hope springs eternal!), a story some of us know by heart.   <br />There are shortcomings, as other reviewers have pointed out.  Besides the historical gaffes regarding other musical formats, the final chapter is overly pessimistic in its account of the 45's demise as a cultural icon.  (Quite a few new records are still available if you know where to look.)  And, as noted above, the appearance is somewhat deceptive.  But it's still a great introduction to the minutae of the 45 for the serious record lovers among us.	2005-02-23
US	51804428	R2HGMYRMZX0Y5G	0393059170	168441340	Cruel and Unusual: Bush/Cheney's New World Order	Books	4	51	57	N	N	Now more than ever...	So, do you really need another anti-Bush book in your collection?  Even if Kerry had won the election, the answer would be yes.  Miller's bleak thesis reaches well beyond George And Dick's Excellent Adventure, into a future of across the board right-wing dominance that we can expect to continue until progressives begin fighting back effectively.  The first step is to appreciate just how one-sided the debate is in America today, and although Miller's book can be downright infurating in that respect, it gets the job done. <br /> <br />Miller does a great job of illustrating the distinction between Republican rhetoric about honor, decency and \\"values\\" and the reality of 30 years of win-at-all-costs politicking, rife with character assassinations and demagoguery.  He also makes a more than convincing case that the media, with its increasingly clear conservative bias, has been complicit in allowing their hypocrisy to succeed for so long.  In the most unique part of Miller's assessment, he drives it all home with an analysis of Bill Clinton's record in office and that of his right-wing detractors.   <br /> <br />He argues along the way that the right's vilification of Clinton amounted to their projection of their own dark sides onto a politically expedient target.  Appropriately, Miller refers to Clinton, the mushy-middle president of reality, and \\"Clinton,\\" the viciously unethical left-wing radical so often depicted in the media, as two all but completely different entities.  Indeed, it is remarkable how many of the false accusations against Clinton have proven to be true of Bush, with no apparent political fallout resulting for the latter; Miller's list is probably incomplete, but it more than makes his point.  Conservatives could (and surely will) accuse Miller of cherrypicking and argue that \\"both sides do it.\\"  But he also makes the point that legitimate examples of liberals being as vicious and untruthful against conservatives as we see every day in reverse are genuinely rare; and he provides several examples of arguments made to that effect and why they're wrong. <br /> <br />The one serious flaw I can find in the book is Miller's obvious rage.  I dislike Bush and what he's doing to America just as much as Miller does, and yes, we should be angry about it all.  But there is a limit to how angry one can sound and still be able to present a coherent argument, and Miller crosses that line on occasion.  Also, I'm not convinced that he is truly qualified to make some of the more technical psychological arguments he does regarding right-wingers' rage at differences of opinion or their \\"projections\\" onto Clinton.   <br /> <br />Still, for those of us who thirst for a more elaborate explanation for the motivations of the right than \\"because they're mean,\\" Miller does make a strong case.  He also provides dozens of examples of that meanness, some of which will probably be new to you no matter how many other anti-Bush books you've read.  When battling 30+ years of experience in gutter-politics, you can never have too much evidence on your side! <br /> <br />Read it, be angry, and do something about it.	2004-11-29
US	51804428	RXB5DS1FAGGKS	0375764097	935148987	Cracking the GRE, 2005 Edition (Graduate Test Prep)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	From a veteran GRE taker...	In the past ten years, I've taken about half a dozen real- or mock-GREs, used several different prep books and taken one prep course. This book is the only Princeton Review product I have tried to date, and it yielded my highest scores ever.  <br /> <br />It is a bit longer on strategy and shorter on sample questions than it could be, but I think that's only because PR assumes the test taker will already have a strong knowledge base to work from when taking the GRE. If you don't have a decent foundation in English and math, no amount of strategizing is going to help you. But understanding the rules of the GRE game (and it IS a game) can make a big difference to a student who does have a solid foundation. This book is definitely aimed at people who know the material and just need to learn the tricks ETS uses.  <br /> <br />In that respect, PR has done its homework. With lots of practice as directed by the book, I found many of the tougher math questions easier to solve quickly using its methods, and was better able to decipher the word salads in the verbal section. The strategies on educated guesses are especially helpful in the inevitable \\"crunch time\\" when you have five or six questions left and only two minutes to go! As for the new essay section, PR's explanation of how to attack it should be required reading for all test takers. I would never have approached the section as I did without this book.  <br /> <br />The practice regimen PR recommends does take a lot of self-discipline, so those who are prone to distraction are probably better off with a course than with this (or any) book. But if you're good at practicing and studying on your own, this is a terrific option. <br />	2004-11-26
US	51804428	REYJA6EG1WIMR	0060255234	921397762	Outside Over There (Caldecott Collection)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Engaging and beautifully illustrated	I teach at an English-language kindergarten in Taiwan, and discovered \\"Outside Over There\\" in our school's library a few weeks ago. I thought the subject matter might be a bit too scary for some of my kids (age 4-6), but I read it to them during Halloween week anyway. Since then, not a week has gone by without one of them asking me to read \\"the story with the monsters who steal the baby\\" again. Nothing else keeps them as quiet or enthralled!  <br /> <br />Some of the language is rather advanced for young children (how old were you before you knew what an arbor or a changeling was?), but it's an easy story to \\"dumb down\\" as necessary, and the illustrations are wonderful. My kids love to see the goblins lurking in and out the windows and dancing to Ida's horn, as well as hearing the story of how she saved her sister from them.  <br /> <br />For more advanced readers, the finer points of family loyalty and Ida's sense of responsibility are just about perfectly balanced with the fact that it is still a children's story. The illustrations are also gorgeous throughout. Even the \\"real\\" portion of the story is set in an idyllic seaside locale not quite like anything you've seen in real life. It definitely stands up to repeated readings - and viewings - for readers of all ages. <br /> <br />	2004-11-26
US	51804428	R219JLB25IV0EQ	0743255755	212319343	Had Enough?: A Handbook for Fighting Back	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Great recipes, political and otherwise!	After all the many criticisms the Democrats have weathered lately for \\"opposing Bush but not having a plan of their own,\\" Carville's latest missive is a joy to read.  Short and to the point as always, he lays out a generous collection of Bush administration policies whose results have been disastrous for America, explains why they're so disastrous, and offers up plenty of progressive ideas to counter them.   <br /> <br />Some of the ideas are over the top and clearly tongue in cheek (although I think levying a tax on SUV owners who don't know how to use a trailer hitch is a wonderful idea!) while others would be called radical in some circles, but that's not a bad place for progressives today to start from.  Not so long ago, many of the ideas we're seeing the Republicans trying to put into law today were considered outlandishly radical, but their backers pushed them into the mainstream in part by talking about them seriously for a long time.  Progressives could always use a source of such ideas to start from, and here's a good one. <br /> <br />They've got the Wall Street Journal editorial page, we've got James Carville.	2004-08-17
US	51804428	R24PTAKIJE2VGM	1888451459	525234400	The Merry Month of May	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Perhaps his best	For those of us who thought James Jones could only write war stories, this relatively obscure title is a nice surprise.  Of course, there is a warlike element to the story's backdrop of 1968 Paris, but ultimately the student riots are just that - a backdrop.<br /><br />The main focus of the story is on the descent of an American expat family into chaos, in part as a reflection of the generational divides laid bare by the riots.  There are bits of sex and violence thrown into the mix (although far more of both are referred to indirectly without actually being portrayed), but the story is more concerned with changing values and the bonds of family and friendship than with anything melodramatic.  It turns out that Jones was far better at telling such a tale than his earlier and better known novels had let on.<br /><br />Since most of the lead characters are defined by their uglier sides, there aren't many people to root for.  But as the story progresses, it increasingly becomes a story of the well-to-do American community in Paris as a whole, which makes for a somewhat more sympathetic picture.  Jones also did a great job of bringing in real-life events of May-June 1968 on both sides of the Atlantic to influence his fictional characters and their story, which is told from the point of view of an intimate observer of the chaos just a few weeks after it's all over.  Is it really the end of an era for the Americans of Paris, or just for one dysfunctional family?  For once, as the reader, you're free to decide on your own.	2004-08-17
US	51804428	RQOR7MBCSTZCA	0449221431	922984988	The Novel	Books	5	35	36	N	N	For those smaller Michener appetites	&quot;The Novel&quot; is one of Michener's last works, and it must also be one of his shortest.  Far less ambitious than most of his signature historical novels, it tells a story closer to home for him - both literally and figuratively.  It centers on the two worlds he probably knew best:  the Pennsylvania Dutch Country and the publishing industry.<br />The subject at hand is, ostensibly, an aging novelist and questions about the likely success of his anticipated new book.  But Michener really just uses the story as a backdrop for four autobiographical sketches of the author and three people who figure in his life and career.  Most of the story is not as suspenseful as some of the review quotes would have you believe, but the stories of the four characters and how they found themselves in their current situations are immediately engaging, tension or no tension.  If nothing else, I definitely wanted to find out how they ended up.<br />Along the way, Michener throws in what I'm sure are several knowing jokes about the literary world in all its snobbery, notably a lengthy battle between two characters over the merits of Longfellow and a wonderfully awful &quot;experimental&quot; novel which the critics, predictably enough, love.  If Michener himself weren't so highly regarded throughout his career, I would suspect him of intending many of the dialogue exchanges as digs at his critics.  As it is, perhaps he meant comments like &quot;there are novels critics like, and novels readers love&quot; as a more generalzied swipe at the establishment he was so familiar with.  The good news for us, of course, is that Michener was both.  This is another great sample of his talent.	2004-06-30
US	51804428	R39POPFYQVXWK2	0440211263	817486072	Circle of Friends	Books	5	2	2	N	N	For anyone who remembers being 19 and in love...	If the mark of a great book is its ability to make you continue reading no matter how late it is, &quot;Circle of Friends&quot; deserves at least six stars.  Binchy's style may be slightly vanilla (were the fifties really that innocent?), but no one is better at drawing the reader in and making you care about her characters and what will happen to them in the next chapter.  Even the relatively uneventful passages are never boring as we watch Benny and her friends make their way out into the world, in some cases not very far into it.  Their experiences as first-year university students are all too accurate.  I'd nearly forgotten about the politics of school dances and the thrill of being seen with that special someone at the coffee shop after class and the odd sense of &quot;friends forever!&quot; with people you've only known for a few weeks.  Here, they don't seem clichd at all, perhaps because they're so universal and because Binchy retells them in her own unique style and with her vivid characters.<BR>If there is a sense of sugarcoating to the story, it wears off just in time as the plot builds.  It's never very suspenseful and the climax is even a bit obvious, but it's also very refreshing to those who have had enough of Hollywood endings (including the one in the movie adaptation of this book).  More than anything, this is a very accurate portrayal of how short, intense friendships so often turn out in real life.  Highly recommended for fans of coming-of-age fiction.	2003-10-16
US	51804428	RLR0H5H6DJ0Z9	0312148259	281403267	The Willows in Winter (Tales of the Willows)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Better than I expected	Horwood himself asks the obvious question - \\"But SHOULD you have [written a sequel to someone else's classic, that is]?\\" - in the afterword, and I have to admit that's exactly what I thought at first as well.  His re-creation of Kenneth Grahame's beloved cast of characters and their environs isn't perfect.  Both the character development and the descriptions of the River Bank and the Wild Wood are less vivid than the original and a bit too dependent on the reader's familiarity with \\"The Wind in the Willows,\\" which I was left thinking I should re-read for comparison.  There is also an element of overt religiosity which turns out to be something of a non-sequitur in the end.  Still, all the fundamental ingredients I fell in love with as a kid are here:  diehard loyalty to one's friends, the conflict between a sense of adventure and the comforts of home, and of course, wonderfully irreverent adventures with Mr. Toad.  If the ending isn't quite as climactic or satisfying as that of the original, it is true to the same spirit.  <BR>I admire Horwood's efforts to replicate the world of Toad et al as well as his chutzpah, and am sufficiently impressed to recommend this book to anyone else who has fond memories of reading \\"The Wind in the Willows\\" under the covers with a flashlight as a kid.  It's not the original, but it's a nice addition.	2003-09-15
US	51804428	RB5Q8SVYNY18M	0312301774	732782303	The Great Big Book of Tomorrow: A Treasury of Cartoons	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A must for Sparky loyalists!	As a Tom Tomorrow fan for about a decade now (his wonderfully undiplomatic cartoons about Newt Gingrich and Rush Limbaugh were a breath of fresh air in the depressing 104th Congress era, and he's only gotten better), I can't say enough good things about this collection.  These cartoons are as biting and persuasive as they are funny, and are often informative to boot - although, as the artist himself often concludes, it's sad to think telling the whole truth behind the news is so often left up to a talking penguin in a weekly comic strip!<br />Some of the cartoons collected here were previously published in earlier collections.  But there's plenty of material reprinted here for the first time, including specials for the Village Voice and other alternative newspapers, and pre-\\"This Modern World\\" cartoons dating back to the mid-1980s.  Most interesting of all (to me at least, and I expect to other longtime fans as well) is one of the very first strips published under the TMW name, circa 1987.  Back then it was a science-fiction serial rather than a political strip, although it was topical in its own way then as now, and the trademark `50s kitsch was even more prominent.  Add to that fifteen years of biting political wit, and you've got one of the smartest comics collections of, well, of this modern world!	2003-09-03
US	51804428	R3H0ZF4EXPJT1G	0679728872	165340893	A Lost Lady (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	28	31	N	N	As brilliant as it is short	In the opening sentence of this short novel, Cather describes Sweet Water, the Nebraska town in which it takes place, as \\"so much grayer today\\" than it was a generation or so before, when the story takes place.  When she wrote those words in 1923, she couldn't possibly have known how prophetic or poignant they would be today, as that part of the country has continued to lose population and become dotted with ghost towns in the decades since then.  But sad as that may be, it only adds to the brilliance of this story of times that changed and a community that didn't keep up with the changes.  <br />As per usual for Cather, her heroine is seen mostly through the eyes of a young male character, about whom we know less in the end than we do about the woman he tells of.  Taking place toward the end of the nineteenth century, it's a coming of age story for the both of them and for the land they call home, and, one could argue, for America at large.  (Subtlety always was among Cather's strongest points; it's never easy to tell for certain whether her stories really are only about individuals or whether they're intended as an allegory for the loss of her beloved Midwestern frontier.)  As the times change, so does the place of her protagonist, Mrs. Forrester, in the insular community due to some circumstances she can't control and some she can but won't.  Like the title itself, the story ultimately leaves it up to us to decide whether she is ultimately better or worse off at the end than at the beginning and whether her fate reflects poorly on her friends and neighbors or herself, or both.  <br />The one certainty is a loss of youthful exuberance on the part of the town as a whole, which Cather paints vividly as a bustling young community at first and a wounded, declining one not long thereafter.  We're left on our own to decide what it all says about Mrs. Forrester, her generation, women in society as a whole, and Cather's own opinions about it all.  It's not easy to leave so much ambiguity without leaving the reader frustrated, but remarkably, that's just what happens here.	2003-08-08
US	51804428	R34BD4CET6CP50	1878379801	61704552	Angola’s Last Best Chance for Peace: An Insider’s Account of the Peace Process	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Want to join the Foreign Service?  Read this book.	Mediation is harder work than the mainstream media is able (or at least willing) to let on.  For that reason, a book like this is an invaluable resource for anyone thinking of a career in diplomacy.  Historically speaking, Hare's book is outdated, since peace has come, gone, and come again in Angola since it was published in 1998.  Nonetheless, it's a valuable study of a crucial period in the country's long road to recovery from civil war, from the perspective of a participant who had an almost-inside view of both camps in the dispute.  I'm persuaded that the Angolan reviewers above have a point, that Hare is too much of an outsider to have a complete appreciation of what their country went through.  What he does provide completely, though, is an insider's look at the realities of American diplomacy, how it works, and why it doesn't always work quickly.  It's a great case study of a difficult case, valuable to students of both African and American politics.<br />Angola, still in the midst of a decades-long battle when Hare's work began, is a good example of the ultimate challenge in that field.  Hare's style is a bit dry, but his accounts of the two steps up, one step back peace process is refreshingly straightforward and devoid of political spin, to a degree that has been almost unthinkable in America for quite some time now.  Although Hare shows no sign of any political agenda beyond that dictated by his job, this study gives the lie to any argument that the Clinton administration's interest in Africa began and ended with Somalia or that it was inept on the international stage.  The leaders of both sides of the conflict are presented in a surprisingly reasonable light given the circumstances, and Hare at least tries to account for the convoluted political lay of the land as the war appeared to draw to a conclusion.  Some previous familiarity with recent Angolan history is certainly helpful in understanding the story, but all the basics are here.  It ends on an appropriately uncertain note, but events since the end of Hare's account have demonstrated that the efforts weren't wasted.	2003-05-06
US	51804428	RR295JAMD5HOP	0684837870	750992383	Islands in the Stream	Books	5	92	95	N	N	In the tropics, they come and they go!	Of the Hemingway books I've read or tried to read, Islands in the Stream is my favorite thus far.  All the great and not-so-great elements of his legendary style are here, from the deadpan prose to the men who try too hard to be men, but they all fit together very well in this case.  The exotic island setting is perfect for Hemingway's trademark everyday-life-is-an-adventure motif, which for once is wholly convincing.  <br />Thomas Hudson, a hard drinking, twice divorced, expatriate American artist, is an all too obvious self-portrait.  But his low-key reactions to most of life's ups and downs, the inner demons he mostly keeps a lid on, and his begrudging love of life in spite of it all can surely appeal to the romantic adventurer in all of us.  The three sections of the novel, bound only loosely together, follow Thomas from an average day in paradise to a tragicomic reunion with the lost love of his life to a Nazi-hunting adventure off the coast of Cuba.  Along the way, there are tragic twists delivered without any sappiness whatsoever, as only Hemingway could do, not to mention a life-or-death fishing scene that rivals \\"The Old Man and the Sea.\\"  <br />I can't imagine why this is being marketed as a love story, as that aspect of the novel is probably its weakest point, although his (very few) women characters are at least marginally more developed and convincing than usual.  It's really more a story of escape and coping with the lack of love, and it's one of the best I've ever read of that subgenre.  Yes, as others have pointed out, it's a bit uneven and the first section holds up better than the other two; and yes, the editing is imperfect and surely not exactly the way Hemingway would have wanted it.  But the whole book is worth reading all the same.  Given Hemingway's condition toward the end of his life, we're lucky to have it.	2003-04-15
US	51804428	R1MCQY0ZICTO1H	0465001769	492085239	What Liberal Media?: The Truth About Bias and the News	Books	4	34	51	N	N	Depressing, imperfect, and absolutely necessary	I can't help suspecting that the only people likely to read \\"What Liberal Media?\\" are those who, like myself, already agree with Alterman's thesis.  Nonetheless, the fact that someone finally saw fit to write a book on this topic is encouraging in itself.  As Alterman notes in the opening pages (and as some of the one-star reviews found here predictably demonstrate), the myth of The Liberal Media is so widespread that many people who should know better tend to assume it must be true simply because its the only opinion theyve ever heard anyone express.  This well researched and thorough book could prove to be one of two elements that finally put a stop to such assumptions (the other, of course, being the mainstream media's blatant contempt for Al Gore and leniency toward George W. Bush throughout the 2000 campaign and beyond, which Alterman documents in considerable detail).<br />Alterman tackles head-on most of the \\"evidence\\" conservatives regularly trot out as proof that the media is liberal.  Perhaps most importantly, he debunks completely the 1992 Freedom Forum poll showing that most journalists voted for Clinton that year (it used a sample no legitimate pollster would approve of, and made no effort to probe beneath the surface with respect to why the respondents voted as they did).  Also singled out for incomplete but convincing criticism are two recent books that play to the popular perception of the media as liberal, Bernard Goldberg's \\"Bias\\" and Ann Coulter's \\"Slander.\\"  I say \\"incomplete\\" not as a criticism of Alterman, but because a complete study of the inaccuracies found in those books would require a book longer than this one.  Alterman does provide a generous sampling of false claims found in both screeds, most notably Goldberg's well-publicized claim that the media routinely labels Republican politicians as conservative but does not similarly refer to liberals as such.  (As Alterman demonstrates, the claim was thoroughly baseless and Goldberg himself was unable to offer any evidence to support it on a rare occasion when he was challenged, but many media outlets repeated it as fact all the same.  Several other examples of this phenomenon appear throughout the book.)<br />For the most part, Alterman plays as well on offense as on defense, proving his own points as convincingly as he disproves those from the other side.  It can be downright depressing for a liberal to read just how broad and deep the medias pro-Bush bias really is, although this is unlikely to be a surprise to anyone who has studied the issue in the past few years.  Much of Altermans evidence was previously available from alternative sources like the Daily Howler and consortiumnews.com, but he provides more context and perspective than Ive seen elsewhere; and it really is refreshing that a mainstream publisher has finally offered us a book like this one.  To Altermans credit, he doesnt spare Bill Clinton and Al Gore from criticism for their often inept responses (or, in many cases, their lack of a response at all) to the malicious coverage they so frequently received during their administration and the 2000 campaign.  The scope of his study is quite thorough, encompassing the medias relation to big business; the clout held by the religious right in both the media and the Republican Party; coverage of the Florida recount; and (most importantly in my view) the far rights disgusting manipulation of the aftermath of September 11 for its and Bushs benefit, a feat it could never have accomplished without help (or at least complacency) from the media.<br />Alterman does make one crucial mistake, in my view.  A critical part of his argument is the idea that most journalists do in fact lean to the left, but that as a matter of journalistic principle and as a result of bullying from the right, they try too hard to be objective and inadvertently report with a conservative bias.  Its a very plausible theory, but Alterman shootshimself in the foot with the examples he provides.  He singles out abortion and the death penalty as examples of issues that are often subject to a genuine liberal bias in the media.  But he fails to even mention the medias complicity the mid-1990s controversy over partial-birth abortion, a deliberately inflammatory term invented by the anti-choice movement for a procedure for which demand is nearly nonexistent except in cases where the health of the mother is at stake.  Regarding the death penalty, he seems to see the recent coverage of false convictions in Illinois and inebriated lawyers in Texas as somehow insensitive to the families and loved ones of murder victims, for reasons he doesnt explain very elaborately.  The chapter in which he makes this misstep raises some larger questions about politically correct intolerance and genuine bigotry without offering any satisfactory answers to them, and a key portion of Altermans argument is weakened somewhat as a result.<br />But even with that admittedly significant weak point, this is a well researched, convincing study of the truth about bias in the modern media, and its sorely needed.  If nothing else, Alterman deserves credit for addressing an issue most people have long since given up on even thinking about.  Heres hoping it inspires some of us to start doing so.	2003-03-10
US	51804428	R3UKS28MFORGYA	0679756450	310711579	Portnoy's Complaint	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Still perversely funny, but...	This \\"classic\\" is more than a little bit dated, but it does feature some of the best stream-of-consciousness prose I've ever encountered. Alexander Portnoy is brilliant, driven, troubled, conflicted about his faith, shamelessly chauvinistic (sometimes downright misogynistic), and self-indulgent. His nearly 300 pages of narrative from a psychiatrist's couch brings us from his youth in the Jewish working-class of Newark to his \\"present\\" as a Great Society reformer and back again innumerable times. It ultimately doesn't lead anywhere that I was able to discern, but the vignettes of growing up in the 1940s and experiencing the changes of the following decades are wonderfully vivid, and the looks inside his own psyche through the years are often all too believable. (Much as I hate to admit it, teenage Portnoy's struggle to reconcile his left-wing politics with his longing for a wife who looks like she stepped out of a Laura Ashley catalog in her angora sweater and tartan skirt is painfully familiar to me!) <br />On the other hand, his memories of his parents' obsessive concern with bodily functions (or the lack thereof) and his recollections down to the most absurd details of his stormy sex life (sometimes with women who were just as neurotic as him, more often with various inanimate objects) often left me hoping the good doctor would just tell him to grow up already. I can see why Roth's frank sex and masturbation scenes were considered so innovative in 1967, but in a more liberated age they often come across as overwrought, sexist and, well, bad. Still, for all that, his retrospective look into adolescent sexuality and familial relationships from an adult perspective is second to none. So is his evocation of the paradox of a successful young adult still torn between craving parents' approval and bristling against their rules and expectations, something you don't have to be Jewish or male to appreciate. If Roth's most famous book hasn't aged as well as I'd hoped, it's still worth a read.	2003-01-19
US	51804428	R2G8Z2QDNKKKSV	0521402379	699762827	Trimalchio: An Early Version of The Great Gatsby	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Interesting for what it is and what it isn't	For all the talk about the many differences with The Great Gatsby, Trimalchio is still essentially a rough draft of the classic it became rather than a separate and distinct novel.  Only the final two chapters are appreciably different beyond the point of reading both novels side by side a page at a time (and as much as I admire Fitzgerald, I'll leave that task to someone else!).  Nonetheless, there are enough slight changes in character development and imagery throughout the book to make it interesting.  <br />In one sense - especially in the little-changed early chapters - this version of the story is interesting mostly in that it demonstrates the improvement brought about by the relatively few changes that were still to come.  For example, Jordan Baker's climactic recollection of seeing Daisy and Gatsby together during the war is quite a bit less scandalous here than in the final version, so that the plot still advances but much of the tension of the scene is lacking.  Some of the party scenes are also less detailed than they would become.  None of this is to say these parts of the book aren't still enjoyable, especially if you haven't read Gatsby recently; it's just that the changes Fitzgerald made really did improve the story in small but noticeable ways.  <br />Although the end of the story is largely the same, the last two chapters do hold several surprises for those who are already familiar with the final version.  Gatsby is portrayed at least slightly more sympathetically, Nick is less of a shadow, and the past events leading up to the currently unfolding plot are both different and somewhat less vague.  This takes away some of the mystique of several of the characters, but it's not necessarily better or worse; in any case, it's fascinating to see Fitzgerald's original approach and how it changed.  One thing he arguably didn't change enough is Nick's bleak outlook in the closing pages; life doesn't end at 30 just because of a lousy summer!  I've always considered that the weakest point of the novel, but this version at least offers a slightly different context and narration of the ending.<br />Imperfections and all, it's still brilliant.  Recommended for all Gatsby fans.	2003-01-15
US	51804428	R17DAIJIR448I8	0743246470	505916468	It's Still the Economy, Stupid: George W. Bush, The GOP's CEO	Books	5	16	19	N	N	All the news that the media sees fit to bury!	In this book's most depressing - yet perversely entertaining - passage, Begala provides a shockingly long list of social programs of which George W. Bush has spoken glowingly in public, just before quietly slashing the funding for them.  As with most of the &quot;revelations&quot; in this book, those hypocrisies will come as no surprise to anyone who has followed Bush closely, yet you would have to have read the papers very carefully in order to have been aware of them.  Such is the paradox of Bush's presidency thus far:  he's always had to lie about his record and his stances on the issues in order to remain popular, but the supposedly &quot;liberal&quot; media has condoned - and often even repeated - those lies so consistently as to keep his popularity at record levels throughout much of his term.  It's too bad that a book like this is necessary, given that most of the information it provides is a matter of public record and it's in the best interest of most Americans to be aware of it.  But as long as the mainstream media continues to shill for Bush, this is probably the single best current source of the truth about his record in office to date.<br />If you're reading this review, you've probably read at least one previous book by Begala or his &quot;Crossfire&quot; partner, James Carville, in which case you know what to expect (unless, of course, you're just here to provide a one-star review with some inarticulate whining about communism).  Begala picks up roughly where he left off in &quot;Is Our Children Learning.&quot;  Where that book (which I also highly recommend) revealed the ugly truth about Bush's record as governor of Texas and as a businessman before entering politics, this one does the same with his first two years as president.  Hit especially hard are some of Bush's more inept aides and cabinet members, including the recently departed Paul O'Neill.  (The book was published before O'Neill's resignation, but Begala's indictment of his performance makes it clear that he should never have been appointed to begin with.)  There is somewhat less overt bashing of Bush himself than last time, but Begala, a former Clinton adviser, never misses an opportunity to compare his former boss favorably to Bush on policy matters.  Also, his debunking of the argument that the Monica Lewinsky affair was somehow responsible for the rash of corporate scandals in the past year may be stating the obvious, but it's nonetheless a joy to read in detail just how absurd that idea really is.<br />Begala sticks mostly to economics and environmental issues in his criticism, so those who are mostly interested in cultural issues might find the book less interesting.  Additionally, he lashes out more than once at Nader voters in his narrative, but he's hardly alone within the moderate left in his feelings on that matter.  While the attitude he presents is unlikely to heal any remaining fissures among progressive voters, his work is still a nice dose of reality for the &quot;not a dime's worth of difference&quot; crowd.<br />Until and unless the mainstream media ever decides to end its love affair with George W. Bush, books like this one will remain by far the best way to learn the truth about Bush, Cheney and their &quot;business partners&quot; in Washington.  Recommended for all who want to know what their real agenda is, and what they're doing to the country in the process of working toward it.	2002-12-23
US	51804428	R19UDBZ1VJ84AS	031230238X	560044213	Alexandra: The Last Tsarina	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Alexandra: the Lifetime Original Biography	I have a great deal of respect for Carolly Erickson as a first-rate biographer, but this is definitely among her lesser efforts.  Often melodramatic and cloying, it reads more like a novel than a biography.  The last Tsarina did lead a somewhat tragic life and there's nothing wrong with a biography that reflects as much, but Erickson is capable of a much better-rounded assessment than she presents here.<br />The basic facts of Alexandra's well-heeled, but often sad life are well presented, from her childhood in Germany to the demise of her family in the midst of the Russian Revolution.  The book's real downfall is that Erickson is so intent on inspiring sympathy for her subject, the portrait she creates is both one-dimensional and unnecessarily depressing.  Chapter after chapter of accounts of how the elite of St. Petersburg looked down their noses at \\"The German B___\\" and her failure to conceive a son drives home the point that, like most women of her time and class, Alexandra was valued for little more than carrying on the family bloodline.  This is a valid and important point, but there is more to the story of those years, and most of it isn't touched on at all here.  Additionally, Erickson inadvertently perpetuates the sexism she sets out to denounce, concentrating so much on Alexandra's hemophiliac son and her relationship with him that we learn almost nothing about her four daughters except for their names.  <br />Along the way, there are hints of her relationship with Russia as a whole before and during the revolution, but most of the time Erickson doesn't do nearly enough to illustrate the events of the period with respect to Alexandra.  This occasionally leads to confusion: after reading throughout most of the book that she was loathed in St. Petersburg even in good times, we are told that she and her family were welcomed warmly by the rural villagers into whose midst they were exiled during the revolution.  While this is not necessarily inconsistent, Erickson's near complete lack of attention to greater Russia throughout most of the book makes it a confusing and somewhat unconvincing point - one of many such points found in the later portion of the story.  <br />And an entertaining story it is, wonderfully readable and entertaining like most of Erickson's works are.  But as a serious biographical study, especially of a figure whose life is already very well documented, it falls short.	2002-12-20
US	51804428	R16UK9PKQAWOS	015100692X	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An unflinching look at a family's undoing	While the comparisons to Dickens are a bit overblown, this novel does appeal to the same sense of awareness of class inequality and social injustice that has made Dickens' works so immortal. There is no way of knowing whether Michel Faber will be similarly remembered and admired 150 years after his time, but this is a great achievement for its own era.<br />Amidst a depiction of the slums of 1875 London so vivid that some readers will want to avoid eating while they read, Faber sets the scene for the intertwining stories of two tragic heroes. William Rackham is introduced to us as the indifferent, even unwilling scion of a perfume fortune, something of a black sheep of a once-great family who has the means but not the willingness to restore the greatness of his name. While drifting through an existence marked largely by a self-serving mistrust of his wife and servants, he stumbles into a chain of events that leads to his meeting the second protagonist, a prostitute known only as Sugar. As troubled and mistrustful as Rackham - though in different ways - Sugar is nonetheless the more admirable of the two, an intelligent and driven individual forced at a young age into the margins of society and determined to escape her ugly fate. <br />They're the perfect match - or so it seems at first. William is inspired by his love for Sugar to become a success in his own right rather than live off his father's inheritance, and to build a more positive life for himself and his family as well as for Sugar - a classic case of doing the right thing for the wrong reason. Sugar, meanwhile, has found her ticket out of the gutter, but at what cost? Amidst the many good and bad events that unfold throughout the book, it is difficult to pinpoint a moment when William's rising business fortunes give way to the unraveling of his personal life and those of his family and friends, but his unwavering selfishness begins to catch up with him almost immediately. Sugar, meanwhile, can escape neither the demons of her past nor the sense that her present well-being is based entirely on the whim of a man who ultimately has little use for her. Her sometimes-surprising reactions to this predicament give rise to most of the tension in the story, as the balance of power in the relationship swings back and forth - or perhaps it only appears to. <br />Complicating the relationship along the way are William's even more unstable wife Agnes, whose fate provides the turning point in Sugar's opinion of her \\"savior;\\" their young daughter Sophie, who provides Sugar with an opportunity to prove her intelligence and humanity in spite of her tragic past, only nobody notices; and William's brother Henry, who is deeply conflicted between his devout faith and his love for a widowed friend but is nonetheless the most well-adjusted of the bunch. While there is nothing overtly political about the story, issues of class, justice and especially gender are subtly addressed throughout the book. Although most of William's actions are despicable at the core, and Sugar often allows herself to be ruled by love or hate and thus holds herself in her ritzy bondage as much as William does, there is almost always a sense of hope that they will both eventually learn from their mistakes. <br />When one of them finally does so, the ensuing climax and finale are a satisfying reward for the preceding 800 pages. Anyone who carries the Dickens analogy too far probably hasn't read the ending, but either way, it's worth waiting for.	2002-12-04
US	51804428	R1U6XDKB451VJZ	0684843781	835712680	This Side Of Paradise	Books	5	157	163	N	N	The more things change...	After 80 years, what can be said about Fitzgerald's first novel that hasn't already been said?  The first thing that struck me on reading this was the timelessness of its subject matter, no matter how dated the setting is.  The Ivy League of Fitzgerald's indifferent hero, Amory Blaine, is a thing of the past, with only the faintest reminders of its aura of American royalty remaining today.  Reading about Amory's days at Princeton is a bit like looking at the ancient photographs of 19th century football teams that every university seems to have on display in some corner of the campus, with the added twist that most of those long-ago jocks were presumably the sons of bankers and senators.  And yet, Fitzgerald's depiction of a whirlwind of exhilaration, alienation, eagerness for the future and a sense that it should all be more meaningful is still all too recognizable to those of us who are just a few years out of college.  So like all the best fiction, the story works both on a historical and a contemporary level.<br />Amory isn't the most sympathetic of  protagonists.  Coming from a non-aristocratic but quite cushy background, he's all you would expect from a Fitzgerald hero: full of himself, indifferent to the less fortunate, somewhat lazy, and at once condescending to and inept with women.  But this is a story of young adulthood in the last gasps of the pre-World War I upper-crust, and Amory is the perfect vehicle for illustrating the youth of that time and place.  Although the relative lack of details provided about Amory's experience in the war is odd, it adds to his Everyman quality for the generations since his, all of which have had their own reasons for a bleak outlook at some point even if few could match the sheer trauma of 1917-18.  The one real flaw in the story is an inconsistent, and often unconvincing, quality when it comes to how and why Amory falls for the several women he endures romantic misadventures with.  For all the heartbreak he endures, the reader is often left wondering where his attraction stemmed from in the first place - an odd shortcoming considering how good Fitzgerald was at illustrating that issue in later works.  But the romantic episodes that do work are vivid enough to forgive the weaker ones.  Also, as usual, Fitzgerald's narrative style is somewhat purple; but he's so good at it that it usually doesn't strike the reader as a problem.<br />Bleak as it may be, this is a great book for anyone who has survived young adulthood and remembers it honestly.  Just try not to laugh or cringe next time somebody wants to talk about \\"the good old days.\\"	2002-10-15
US	51804428	R31PW7S95MBHB7	1573241385	255573179	Women of the Beat Generation: The Writers, Artists and Muses at the Heart of a Revolution	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Beautiful!	For a group that is now remembered as a progressive voice in the ultra-conformist wilderness of the 1950s, the Beats were a surprisingly chauvinistic bunch of guys, all too ordinary for their time.  That unfortunate fact helps explain the relative obscurity of most of the women who ran with, influenced and, in some cases, loved them.  (You probably know that William S. Burroughs accidentally murdered his common-law wife while playing William Tell, but do you know her name?)  This wonderful volume goes a long way towards correcting that oversight.  Featuring previously unpublished letters, rare pictures and - best of all - a generous sampling of creative works, it's a near-perfect survey of the Beats' female contemporaries, lovers and even a few of their precursors.  <br />Although most of the women profiled here published at least one work in their own right at some point, many of those are not currently in print anywhere else.  Additionally, some of the poems and stories here are previously unpublished, and in the case of many of the wives and lovers (referred to as \\"The Muses\\"), the works presented here are by far the most intimate look at their lives published thus far.  In short, there's something here for everyone:  a good starting point for newcomers to the Beats as well as a good supplementary piece for even the most serious students of women's literature.	2002-09-24
US	51804428	R3DDMHSQSKD9TV	0374123543	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Comprehensive and detailed - maybe too much so	There is a reason why most biographies of Churchill either concentrate on only a portion of his life or are split into multiple volumes. Here, Jenkins goes against that trend and, for better or worse, demonstrates why his comprehensive, single-volume biography is the exception to the rule. For the most part, his change is for the better, although students of Churchill's early life and/or his late career are likely to be disappointed.<br />Jenkins, himself a former Labour MP whose service overlapped with the tail end of his subject's, demonstrates a remarkable degree of firsthand knowledge of British politics during and just after World War II and an even more impressive collection of research on Churchill's early career as a politician, writer and adventurer. Anyone with an interest in any particular issue Churchill ever worked with is likely to find a wealth of information and analysis to work with here. Unfortunately, the sheer amount of information Jenkins wishes to impart sometimes becomes detrimental to the book's readability, as tangential analyses of a trip, an election, or even a single Parliamentary debate can drag on for pages at a time so that the reader is likely to have forgotten the chapter's primary subject by the time Jenkins returns to it. On the other hand, his dry English wit (he argues, for example, that Churchill's 1931 car accident in New York \\"cannot be too easily attributed to the perverse habit of the Americans of driving on the right\\") provides a good antidote to some of the slower passages. This shortcoming fades considerably as the book progresses; not surprisingly, Jenkins is far more articulate when discussing events of which he has a personal recollection, which he often shares in footnotes.<br />The book's only other shortcoming is a degree of unevenness in the amount and focus of attention on different periods of Churchill's life. It is, of course, more than reasonable to devote more ink to the World War II years than to any other time, but seven chapters on the relatively uneventful (for Churchill) 1930s versus fourteen pages on the final decade of his life is less justifiable. Also, his childhood and education are barely touched upon at all, an odd omission for a book that features minutiae down to what Churchill ate on a particular flight to Washington or Moscow later in life. This is understandable in that the book is essentially a political biography that also includes more personal details when Jenkins has them and when they fit in well with the subject at hand, but it is unclear whether that was Jenkins' real intention. <br />Those who are interested only in Churchill's life outside of his work (to the limited extent that he had one!) should look elsewhere. But for a sweeping assessment and critique of modern Britain's greatest leader, including his failures as well as his triumphs, this is as good as one is likely to find in fewer than 1,000 pages.	2002-09-23
US	51804428	R1J4XPSD8RU3I3	0743226917	302007279	The Emerging Democratic Majority (Lisa Drew Books)	Books	5	72	85	N	N	It's about time somebody said so!	With George W. Bush riding high in the opinion polls (for the moment, at least) and the Democrats struggling to establish a solid majority in either house of Congress this fall, the title of this book alone is likely to make some Republicans write it off as wishful thinking.  They do so at their own peril.  Just as the Democrats' 1964 across-the-board landslide proved to be the beginning of the end of the New Deal coalition, Judis and Teixeira argue that George W. Bush's (near-) victory and the narrow survival of the Republican majority in Congress in 2000 will soon be recognized as the last gasp of 1980s laissez-faire conservatism.  Of course, partisans of all stripes love to believe that such a watershed in their favor is always just around the bend, but Judis and Teixeira do make a remarkably solid, evenhanded case for their prediction.<br />The many analogies they draw between the 1960s and the current political climate are probably self-evident to most political junkies already.  In both eras, the party in power overestimated its own popularity and the durability of its voting base, and suffered from a growing rift between moderates and those on the far left or right within its ranks.  Much as Watergate provided the Democrats with a brief respite from their impending years in the wilderness, the Clinton scandals and Al Gore's somewhat inept response to them have enabled the Republicans to remain in power beyond the scope of their current voting base.<br />Judis and Teixeira argue that that base has already been showing signs of fragmentation for a decade and will inevitably continue to do so; and they provide a detailed demographic and geographical analysis for their argument.  As the Republicans continue to alienate most minority groups, the Democrats' already significant advantage among nonwhite voters will only improve (a process that has been exacerbated rather than eased by the Bush administration's response to September 11, they argue).  Among whites, thelongstanding Republican advantage is past its peak and began to crack as early as 1992.  Judis and Teixeira predict that in the coming decade, these trends have the potential to leave the Republicans with a hardcore support base on the all-important Electoral College map nearly as small as that held by the Democrats in the 1980s, concentrated in the Deep South and upper Rockies.  Judis and Teixeira provide predictions for all 50 states, ranging from thumbnail sketches to pages-long analyses depending on the size and degree of change in each state.  Although no one is likely to agree with all of their predictions (I don't), the breadth and detail of the study is fascinating regardless of your political allegiance.<br />Although the authors' political persuasion is unmistakable, there is very little analysis of issues to be found in the book.  Instead, they stick to analyzing the parties' respective positions on the hottest issues of the era.  Their bluntness in addressing the mistakes and cynical moves of both parties in the past 30 years is likely to offend people of both extremes.  But for the more moderate among us, it's a breath of fresh air to read in the same place that, yes, the Republicans did build their majority on appeals to racism, misogyny and homophobia and, yes, the far left can in fact be hypersensitive and intolerant in its own way.  Again, anyone with an opinion (again, including myself) is likely to disagree with their characterizations at some point, and it could also be argued that they distort the realities of the 2000 political landscape and overstate the excesses of the post-60s Left in order to better fit their argument.  But overall, it is a solidly grounded argument, and Judis and Teixeira do acknowledge four common Republican counterarguments and make a solid case against each of them.  <br />Inevitably, most readers will either want to believe this book before reading it, or hope it's wrong and refuse to be swayed as a result.  But either way, it's a formidable and well- supported thesis.  I look forward to re-reading it in a few years to see how many of the predictions prove true.	2002-09-01
US	51804428	R1IG6CUMP08WA7	0385333641	580864553	From Here to Eternity	Books	4	65	77	N	N	A slow burn	If you've heard of this book, chances are you've seen - or at least heard of - the classic movie.  Rest assured, no matter how many times you've seen the movie, there's a lot more to discover in the book, as is usually the case.  Through the eyes of an all too human soldier on the eve of Pearl Harbor, Jones provides a stark glimpse at the relations between friends and foes in the most basic, fatalistic of surroundings: an Army base on the eve of a great war.  <br />Private Robert E. Lee &quot;Prew&quot; Prewitt is the epitome of tragic heroism, a great man who allows himself to be torn down bit by bit through his own flaws, all the while knowing it and thinking he can beat it in the end.  The men he serves with and the harsh environment they create for him are vividly illustrated as well, in unsentimental descriptions of a time and place that are often romanticized by people who weren't there.  War IS Hell, and so, Jones reminds us, are the conditions that set the stage for it.  Amidst all the ugliness, Prew reflects a somewhat unwilling but noble spirit of persistence in the face of adversity and individuality against the ultimate culture of conformity.  Even in the book's more slow-moving passages, the reader is aware that Prew's resilience will inevitably lead to a stormy climax, and when it comes, Jones manages to make it somewhat unexpected but satisfying all the same.<br />So why only four stars for such a brilliant novel?  There are a couple of major flaws here.  For one, the pace of the story is wildly uneven; it takes off very quickly just past the halfway point, but those first 400 pages tend to be slow or even stagnant.  Jones does a superb job throughout of setting the scene, but at times in the early chapters, there just doesn't seem to be much going on, no matter how vividly we can picture the surroundings.  This, of course, is the sort of technique that Hemingway always received so many accolades for; but even he wasn't always so good with it.  With other writers it can be excruciating.  Then there's the salty language, which is undeniably accurate, but overdone in some places.  I don't doubt that soldiers really do talk like that among themselves, but Jones pushes that aspect of military life to the point of self-parody, even using it in his more formal third-person narratives on occasion.  (Does anyone ever really refer to the absence of hunger as &quot;a comfortably full bowel&quot;?  And is there any reason to do so other than to turn the reader's stomach?)  Even non-squeamish readers might grow tired of this long before the end of the book.<br />There is a reason why the movie is more famous than the book:  it simply isn't a quick or easy read, and it's not for everyone.  But for fans of World War II-era novels or military fiction in general, it's a giant of the genre.  Enjoy it, but expect to do so slowly.	2002-08-14
US	51804428	RUVLR8DH6WNH1	0679759336	150404094	The Fermata	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Still my guiltiest pleasure!	After the brilliance of \\"Vox,\\" I expected this book to be a pale follow-up to that instant classic.  Eight years and countless re-reads later, I've changed my tune.  \\"The Fermata\\" is, bar none, Baker's finest hour.  Yes, it borders on pornography, but it's unusually good for that subgenre - and besides, it plays in depth on a fantasy nearly all men (and maybe women too?) have surely had at some point.  If nothing else, Baker deserves kudos for taking his simple idea far beyond the middle-school titillation it could so easily have devolved into.<br />Stopping time in order to undress women - the very idea invites accusations of misogyny, but the genius of the book is that Baker keeps his protagonist, Arno, on the right side of that line at all times.  While his hobby is undeniably invasive and lacking in respect for privacy, Arno leaves no doubt that he loves women and is in awe of them in any number of ways.  His lengthy but enjoyable treatises on the minutiae of women's bodies in general, and those of his \\"victims\\" in particular, suggest a genuine and deep admiration that enables us to forgive him for having no use for personal boundaries.  Rather than just treat us to egregiously detailed descriptions of female flesh, he takes time - often a lot of it - to explain just why it's all such a turn on.  (For me, this is what keeps the book squarely in the realm of erotica rather than pornography.)  Arno also displays a sense of ethics about his powers - never using them to humiliate or hurt anyone, still expressing regret decades later about stealing a few shrimp from a \\"frozen\\" chef as a child, always putting his subjects' clothes back exactly as he found them - that makes his one vice seem wholly forgivable by comparison to other things he is capable of.  <br />Although Arno's story is focused all but completely on the seamiest details of his life, he's not one-dimensional.  As enviable as his voyeuristic abilities are, there's a strong sense of underachievement anduntapped potential in the few non-sexual details he provides throughout the book.  There is also an unspoken but growing aura of loneliness throughout the story, due to the touch-but-don't-be-touched-or-seen nature of his pastime, which Baker finds a wonderful way to address toward the end.  Along the way, Baker's famous knack for detailed descriptions comes in handy with the scenes of frozen moments in the midst of everyday events.  I have read critiques explaining that Baker got a number of things \\"wrong\\" (i.e. rain wouldn't really stop in midair), but it's beautifully illustrated all the same.  <br />I'm hesitant to give away any further details, not only of the ending but of any part of the book, because it all deserves to be savored firsthand.  If you're openminded about sexuality and not afraid to confront feelings and ideas we all have at some point in our lives, there's a lot to enjoy here.  Don't let the raunchy nature of the story scare you off from such a brilliant achievement!	2002-08-01
US	51804428	R1VBJXIF7TXH2P	0553378163	270965485	The Republican War Against Women: An Insider's Report from Behind the Lines	Books	3	28	33	N	N	In a word:  Frustrating	I remember the moment when I knew George W. Bush would be our next president.  It was late morning on Election Day 2000, and I saw an anchorwoman on television, interviewing a group of previously undecided, affluent women voters in a swing district near Chicago.  One by one, all of them explained that they disagreed with Bush on abortion, but had decided to vote for him anyway.  Most of them offered explanations to the effect of \\"I trust him not to be actively obstructionist against abortion rights.\\"  As we all know now, Bush betrayed that trust immediately after taking office, by reinstating the Mexico City Policy and appointing strident anti-feminist John Ashcroft to head the Justice Department.  I can't help but wonder if those women in Chicago think their tax cuts are worth the backslide in social policy we've all got to endure until at least 2004 - if indeed they really were eligible for the tax cuts.<br />While reading Melich's book, I was reminded repeatedly of that newscast and the misplaced trust in right-wing politicians like Bush.  I really wanted to love this book.  After so many years of watching the mainstream media look the other way on all but the harshest Republican attacks on feminism and the vilification of that noble movement, an inside look at the party's growing intolerance from a female one-time Republican activist sounded to me like the perfect consciousness-raiser.  And it is - to a degree.  Melich's heart is undeniably in the right place, and I applaud her for writing the book.  But I ultimately came away feeling that she, like the women I referred to above, remained loyal to the Republican party long past a time when she should have known better, and thus helped perpetuate the problem.<br />Melich, a GOP activist since the 1950s by her own account, relates page after page of her noble but clearly quixotic efforts to help carve out a voice for feminists in the party of Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan and George \\"kick a little a__\\" Bush, even while supplying an equally abundant collection of tales that showed exactly where Republican leaders of that era stood with respect to women's issues.  Melich's response, whether it was to Reagan refusing to even give feminists a place at the table in preparation for the 1980 convention or Bush questioning Geraldine Ferraro's emotional stability or Nelson Rockefeller's excommunication from the GOP because he supported the ERA, was invariably to \\"hope for the best from my party\\" until 1992.  As she explains in both the opening and closing chapters of the book, she reached her breaking point that year in Houston, as did many socially progressive Republicans.  The trouble is that there was really nothing new about that three-day celebration of bigotry; it was only the most blatant demonstration of the clout held by the religious right in the modern day Republican Party.  If the rhetoric has been less overtly divisive before and since 1992, the party platform has not been.  Melich often gives us the impression that she was aware of this on some level, but she never quite seems to grasp that by continuing to support the party in spite of her growing disillusionment, she contributed to the problem by sending politicians to Washington who then worked against the interests of all social progressives like her.<br />In addition to her inexplicable loyalty to the GOP, Melich's historical research is awfully sloppy for a lifelong political activist.  Among the errors her editor failed to catch:  Sam Ervin retired from the Senate in 1974, not 1976.  Dan Quayle was a second-term congressman in 1980, not a first-termer.  A number of western states gave women the vote prior to the passage of the nineteenth amendment in 1920, but Kansas was not among them, as Melich claims.  Speaking of Kansas, Melich notes with approval the election of Democrat Joan Finney as that state's first woman governor in 1990; but five minutes' worth of research would have revealed that Finney was staunchlyanti-choice on abortion and most feminists supported her male Republican opponent in that election.  Given Melich's background, it is hard to believe she was unaware of that.<br />It is, of course, not reasonable to expect a book-length mea culpa, and Melich's familiarity with the overall subject matter can't be denied.  (In all fairness, it must also be said that the Democrats don't have a sterling record from a feminist perspective either - but there IS more than a dime's worth of difference all the same.)  If nothing else, this book is a worthwhile read from an authoritative source for appreciating the sheer depth and history of reactionary sentiment in the Republican Party with respect to gender issues, especially abortion.  But the last election demonstrated that some feminists haven't learned the lesson Melich tries to teach here; and I'm not entirely convinced that Melich herself has either.y anti-choice on abortion and most feminists supported her male Republican opponent in that election.  Given Melich's background, it is hard to believe she was unaware of that.<br />It is, of course, not reasonable to expect a book-length mea culpa, and Melich's familiarity with the overall subject matter can't be denied.  (In all fairness, it must also be said that the Democrats don't have a sterling record from a feminist perspective either - but there IS more than a dime's worth of difference all the same.)  If nothing else, this book is a worthwhile read from an authoritative source for appreciating the sheer depth and history of reactionary sentiment in the Republican Party with respect to gender issues, especially abortion.  But the last election demonstrated that some feminists haven't learned the lesson Melich tries to teach here; and I'm not entirely convinced that Melich herself has either.	2002-07-31
US	51804428	RGL4DULR1NS8B	067972883X	937025874	The Optimist's Daughter	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The finest in Southern melancholy	I'm not a big fan of Southern fiction in general, but this short novel is definitely a brilliant achievement.  With admirable subtlety, Welty creates a portrait of the good and bad in all of us, as personified by demure Laurel and her wonderfully nasty stepmother, Fay.  <br />If most of the actual events come and go in the first 25 pages or so, the heart of the novel belongs to the more reflective remainder.  Bereaved of her father but also free - for the moment - from the nagging of Fay and her relatives, Laurel experiences an emotional journey instantly recognizable to all of us who have ever stumbled into our families' past.  From the thrill of reading your grandparents' childhood letters to the pungent smell of their clothes after years of smoking to the dimly lit bedroom nobody else had entered for 30 years...Welty's prose may be a bit purple, but all those sensations you love and hate at the same time are here.<br />Character development is strong across the board as well.  You won't like most of Fay's relatives and some of her friends, but then, you're not supposed to.  (Isn't that what funerals are usually like in real life?)  And they do blend in well with the vividly illustrated surroundings.  You may not want the book to end as quickly as it does, but chances are you'll be happy for Laurel that it's over.  You'll also come away with an interesting perspective on an uncomfortable event that most of us have to endure several times in our lives.	2002-05-24
US	51804428	R388UBEANW5Z3P	0449213358	241253921	Hawaii	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Sweeping, biting, and brilliant	I had my doubts about this classic at first.  At over 1,000 pages, opening with an almost painstakingly slow account of the birth and evolution of the Hawaiian Islands in prehistoric times, it seemed ripe for pretentiousness.  Was I ever wrong!  The great James Michener knew and loved the islands, and it shows throughout this sweeping fictionalized history of our 50th state.<br />Dividing the novel into five historical eras ranging from the 9th century AD to the mid-1950s, Michener creates an amazingly detailed look at the evolution of Hawaii as we know it today, the people who created it, and the lands they came from.  Through a diverse collection of characters, some of them based on real historical figures, we see both the good and the bad sides of the islands and their people.  Michener doesn't pretend it was a painless evolution; his accounts of the Americanization of Hawaii are brutally honest about the greed and intolerance that played into it.  From the anti-hero missionary Abner Hale, whose well-intentioned piousness caused more problems than it solved, to his more business-minded friends and descendants, Michener sees the first Americans in Hawaii as noble but ultimately selfish and often racist.  The Chinese who came to Hawaii are cast in a somewhat more pleasant light, as personified by peasant concubine Char Nyuk Tsin, who literally builds a family empire from nothing in true American Dream fashion.  (The account of her salvation of Hawaii's leper colony is perhaps the book's most harrowing chapter, but also its most inspiring in a way.)  The later arrival of the Japanese and the persecution they suffered before and during World War II is also illustrated brilliantly; this was surely close to Michener's heart when he wrote the book, not long after the war.  Although the final chapter, describing the evolution of a uniquely Hawaiian people, is somewhat less developed and convincing than the rest of the book, Michener's optimism for racial harmony after years of its absence is pervasive all the same.<br />Although the book is fictional, it's nonetheless a very realistic look at a land most of us think of as a paradise, as well as a rare look at the very American side of our most unique state.  With a long and interesting story and consistently remarkable character development, it's sure to hold your interest no matter how long it may take you to read it.	2002-03-13
US	51804428	R3961MPRIWLR70	1887128751	969948196	Fortunate Son: George W. Bush and the Making of an American President	Books	4	47	51	N	N	The truth is out there - probably	I put off reading this book for a long time, thanks to the questions we all had about Hatfield's integrity and the credibility of his charges against the Accidental President.  This newly updated and better-annotated edition put these concerns to rest, and although it's not the best Bush biography I've read thus far, it deserves far more respect than it's received from the mainstream media.  For a book which Bush's supporters went to great lengths to prevent from ever being published, Hatfield shows a surprising lack of antagonism toward his subject for the most part.  Molly Ivins' \\"Shrub,\\" Mark Crispin Miller's \\"The Bush Dyslexicon\\" and Paul Begala's \\"Is Our Children Learning?\\" are all far more openly partisan (and better written), but Hatfield does provide information not available elsewhere about the youthful indiscretion that Bush and his allies have otherwise done a superb job of keeping buried.  <br />Using straightforward accounts from the public record and those who know him, Hatfield illustrates such issues as Bush's obliviousness to racial segregation in his hometown, his indifference to his studies at Andover and Yale, his alcoholism, his spotty record in the Air National Guard, his questionable business dealings, and his performance as governor.  Bush's actions and words speak for themselves throughout the book, and Hatfield shows little inclination to analyze them to death or to put an actively anti-Bush spin on them.  In fact, he occasionally sounds pro-Bush, noting, for example, that he got off to a respectable start in the oil business after graduating from Harvard Business School.  Some of the less flattering accounts, such as that of his \\"service\\" in the Air National Guard, have a  necessarily vague and incomplete feel to them, mainly because there simply isn't a lot of reliable information available about that period of Bush's life.  Hatfield is, however, able to provide a number of accounts of cocaine use and womanizing that stand in sharp contrast to the family-values image Bush's handlers have managed to convey to the public.  If Hatfield's research failed to answer many questions about the extended adolescence Bush himself has always refused to discuss, he did succeed brilliantly in raising many questions that deserve to be addressed but haven't been thus far.<br />The book's most famous accusation - that Bush was arrested for cocaine posession in 1972 and his father got the charges dropped - is more solidly supported than I'd been led to believe.   Although Hatfield did fail to produce a source who was willing to confirm the story on the record, he names a number of sources who probably know the answer but - like Bush himself - refuse to confirm or deny it.  Additionally, he provides three anonymous sources, not a lone Deep Throat as has been widely reported.  The afterword does have a cloak-and-dagger feel to it all the same, and there are typographical and grammatical errors sprinkled throughout the narrative which have helped to make the book easy for Bush supporters to vilify.  <br />But for all that, most of what Hatfield reports is well-annotated (in contrast to the original printing) and presented in a non-sensationalistic style.  If Hatfield was not the ideal messenger, he at least provided us with an important collection of information that other journalists chose to gloss over or didn't have access to.  As Mark Crispin Miller points out in his introduction, the Bush campaign's reaction to the book was just as telling in one sense as the book itself is.  If it's inaccurate, why suppress it?<br />Celebrate your right to know.  Whatever your politics, read the book and decide for yourself whether or not it's worth believing.	2002-02-14
US	51804428	R1993K64X6S2H5	0805048472	533436485	American Moderns: Bohemian New York and the Creation of a New Century	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A solid introduction	Although the 1910s are often thought of as the tail end of the Progressive Era, Stansell makes a strong case that that decade actually saw the genesis of a social progressivism that slammed the door on the Victorian era in America.  She also argues - a bit less convincingly - that the 1910s marked the beginning of New York's Greenwich Village as we now know it.  But whether you accept the latter thesis or not, there is no doubt that the legendary neighborhood played host to some of the most important social activism of the early twentieth century.  Stansell provides an impressive overview of the events and the lives of the people behind them.<br />Given the sheer magnitude of her subject, Stansell is necessarily sketchy in places, and the book suffers on occasion from an overly wordy, academic style.  But she does provide a succinct look at the era's most important activists:  especially Emma Goldman and also Randolph Bourne, John Reed, Margaret Sanger, Mabel Dodge and many others.  The book doesn't pretend to be a biography of any of them but does whet the reader's appetite for learning more about them all.  The same is true of the events it describes, particularly the successes and failures of the labor movement and the evolution of the feminist movement beyond advocacy of women's suffrage.  (A particularly fascinating part of Stansell's story is the tension between labor and feminism, a division that stymied the left back then much as it does now.)  Stansell ends her narrative with a brief assessment of the Red Scare and the quick end it put to the radicalism she delineates earlier in the book.  She doesn't really examine the social progress of the otherwise-conservative 1920s and beyond or demonstrate how the radicalism of the 1910s laid the groundwork for it; but the case for that is quite clear after reading this.<br />The book contains little contextual information regarding the societal conditions of the preceding decades and almost none for the following ones, so Stansell's argument is easier to appreciate if you already have some knowledge of those times.  Still, it is a good overview of an underappreciated bridge between two well-documented eras, the people who got us across that bridge, and the environment they lived in.  If you want to learn about America in the 1910s, this book may or may not tell you all you want to know.  But if not, it will definitely lay the groundwork for understanding whatever event or person you're most interested in.	2002-01-27
US	51804428	R1LNRWCLXUSJGG	0375700455	841119426	The First World War	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dry but very informative	I can't recall the last time a book took me as long to get through as this one did.  Which isn't to say Keegan isn't economical with his words, just that he has a lot to say about the First World War.  I often found myself re-reading paragraphs or even pages to be sure I understood what was going on.  But while it's not a quick or easy read, Keegan has amassed an amazing amount of information about life on the front lines of what many see as history's bloodiest conflict - and it's all here.<br />While most histories I've seen concentrate on the political causes of the war's beginning and duration, Keegan looks almost exclusively at the military half of the equation, providing only the barest of details about such factors as the instability in Sarajevo in 1914 or the Russian Revolution.  As a result, his narrative of the horrors of combat sometimes lacks context - just what was going on behind the scenes amidst all the fighting? - but makes up for it in the in-depth look at the sheer magnitude of the collective disaster that was life in the ranks.  Given the huge numbers of lost lives which Keegan sprinkles throughout the book, the narrative can't help but take on a somewhat anonymous quality in places; but Keegan does a great job of personalizing the account with memories of those who were there where available.  <br />It's a fitting tribute to those who fought the war, and a good source for anyone who wants a thorough overview of the minutae of all the war's battles.	2001-12-13
US	51804428	R39QXJ31PRL1TE	0740718444	114426544	Graduation:  A Time For Change  A For Better Or For Worse Collection	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Another worthy addition to the collection	Ever since I picked up the For Better or For Worse 20th Anniversary collection last year, I've been spending a lot of time searching out the older books, reading stories that anthology touched on but didn't cover completely and learning more about characters I already knew and loved.  The progression of those two decades really is remarkable.  Now, amidst all the nostalgia I (and, I suspect, many other FBoFW fans) got caught up in, comes a reminder that our favorite strip is still better than ever today.<br />From a strictly artistic point of view, Lynn Johnston's drawings have grown steadily sharper and more detailed over the years.  But the real star of the show remains Johnston's knack for engaging stories, which are - as always - a nice blend of laughs and serious looks at the everyday problems we've all got to overcome.  Much of this collection is concerned with Michael's post-graduation blues and his efforts to establish his career and Elizabeth's struggles to adjust to college life, two things many of us have been through or will go through in real life.  Anyone who knows those experiences will tell you they're not often funny, and as such Johnston doesn't try to sugarcoat them - but she does produce a knowing chuckle all the same, as usual.  As for April, love her or hate her, there's plenty here as well for the fans to argue - and maybe even laugh - about as always.  (Perhaps in response to frequent complaints from some fans that April is a spoiled brat, we're actually treated to John and Elly discussing that issue in this collection...nothing like a cartoonist who listens to her fans!)  <br />It's still among the most serious strips out there, but FBoFW remains good for a laugh this time around.	2001-10-24
US	51804428	RLQHEFRS4T4HT	0061097217	263114549	The Last One Home	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A good first novel	This is not an uplifting read to be sure; but for a novel whose title and synopsis scream sentimentality, it's surprisingly compelling and solid.  If the plot is a bit overly ambitious in parts and too tightly condensed into a short time frame (especially toward the end), Appollo succeeds in making us care about her four main characters and want to see how they end up.<br />For a tale that draws heavily on the bitterness that can come with aging, Appollo couldn't have chosen a better backdrop than the decaying Pennsylvania coal town she depicts.  Anyone who has lived in that region (as I have) can verify that she has the atmosphere nailed, right down to the flower shop on the corner that is the lone surviving business on the block.  This does nothing to lighten the mood, of course, but it's not supposed to.  As for the ambitious task of creating four protagonists, I truly felt like I knew them all fairly well by the end of the book; this enabled me to put aside some of my doubts about the more unlikely plot twists and enjoy the story all the same.<br />The book does lose one star in my view for a completely implausible ending that seems both tacked on and unrealistic relative to the rest of the story.  Additionally, the narrative does border on being too relentlessly negative, although that didn't stop me from enjoying the book.  Nonetheless, the setting and the development of the characters and their intertwining stories are strong enough to overcome those shortcomings for the most part.  On balance, it's a worthy read.	2001-10-22
US	51804428	RISF13ZIFCZC4	0892341009	530801502	The Almanac of American Politics 2002	Books	4	16	26	N	N	Surprisingly balanced	After a decade of increasingly right-slanted analysis, the latest edition of the Almanac is refreshingly evenhanded in its reports of the tumultuous 2000 political season.  This is the first edition co-written by Richard Cohen - one can't help but suspect that someone at the National Journal finally reined in Michael Barone and insisted that his borderline inflammatory analysis be balanced off - and Cohen's influence shows.<br />Even in the most partisan editions, the Almanac's strongest point has always been its short but thorough histories of political trends in each state and Congressional district; this remains excellent as always.  The relatively recent addition of Charlie Cook's predictions for the next election is still here as well. As with the previous edition, these are usually a bit redundant from the main body of the analysis of each member, but fun for us political junkies all the same.<br />The partisanship has not disappeared entirely.  For example, Missouri Democrats are sharply criticized for fighting to keep the polls open late in St. Louis on election night 2000 so that all who showed up on time to vote could do so, on the grounds that such an action condoned incompetent pollworkers.  Surely Barone and Cohen would concede that the rights of all registered voters to vote if they arrived at the polls in time outweighs concerns about pollworkers being insufficiently punished for poor performance.  And predictably, the Florida fiasco is oversimplified and punctuated with the dubious assumption that George W. Bush really did win the state's electoral votes.  Nonetheless, this edition is head and shoulders above its recent predecessors in terms of evenhandedness.  If Barone's slanted analysis has scared you off in the past, this is a good year to start buying the Almanac again.	2001-08-17
US	51804428	R1JBJ64V7ZCOOK	0670890405	665165221	Door Wide Open	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A nice addition to both of their collections	For anyone interested in the lives behind the novels and poems of the Beats, Joyce Johnson offers a priceless glimpse at the realities of a world most of us can only imagine.  Delineating a love affair that was short but tremendously influential on both of them, Johnson reveals something of her own personal growth during a time when being a young woman on her own was an act of rebellion in itself, as well as the impact of sudden fame and fortune on Jack Kerouac's already fragile psyche.  Although the insensitivity to Johnson that shows through in Kerouac's letters to her will come as no surprise to those who are already familiar with his personality, his letters do feature a rare directness with one who knew him well.  If his carelessness with money and women and his blind devotion to his mother remain as striking as ever, both his letters and Johnson's interpretation of them give us something of a better understanding of how these characteristics came into being.<br />Along the way, there are images aplenty of the stage the affair played out on:  beatnik parties, Village pubs and restaurants, jazz concerts, and New York suburbs back when they were distinguishable from the city itself.  Other important figures, notably Allen Ginsberg, appear throughout the text in candid shots we would never find in their own work.  Johnson discusses them all in the style of one who knew them personally.  For this reason among others, this book is not a very good starting point for learning about the Beat Generation, but it is an excellent complimentary piece for anyone who already has some familiarity with and interest in that era.	2001-08-17
US	51804428	RHYGNWLSUM5QU	0374281998	707853482	Positively 4th Street: The Lives and Times of Joan Baez, Bob Dylan, Mimi Baez Farina & Richard Farina	Books	4	75	78	N	N	Wonderful narrative, questionable thesis	From 1961-66, the Baez sisters, Bob Dylan and Richard Farina came of age, befriended one another, fell in and out of love, raised hell, traipsed the globe on a shoestring budget like college students, drank, got high...and produced some of the most durable music (and, in Farina's case, one of the most underappreciated novels) of their generation.  Hajdu captures that half-decade in 300 pages of remarkably seamless prose, painting a vivid picture of four young artists whose intertwining paths left an indelible mark on the work they produced.<br />Although he appears most interested in Joan Baez and her family, Hajdu produces an impressive amount of information on all four of his subjects.  Dylan fans especially are likely to be surprised at some of the details of their hero's early career, such as his first appearance on a studio recording (it wasn't Harry Belafonte's &quot;Midnight Special,&quot; as has often been reported) and the somewhat disputed origin of his stage name.  Baez, meanwhile, is portrayed for once as a human being with strengths and weaknesses of her own, rather than strictly as a victim of Dylan's misogyny (though this too is acknowledged, as well it should be).  Best of all, Richard and Mimi Farina are both researched and profiled just as carefully as Baez and Dylan despite being far less famous outside the realm of hardcore folk music fans.<br />The book, like its subjects, is not without its shortcomings.  For one thing, Hajdu's vision of the four and their importance is a bit sweeping.  Baez may have been the first protegee of the folk revival to achieve commercial success, but she was hardly the first folk artist to have a hit record (or even the first of the rock era).  Dylan was the movement's biggest name in songwriting, but hardly the only one; Hajdu sprinkles the names of others throughout the book (Phil Ochs, Tom Paxton, Ian and Sylvia Tyson, Paul Simon, Judy Collins, Eric Andersen and a list too long to complete here) without really acknowledging their place relative to those of his four subjects.  His sly allusions to their works (i.e. &quot;Dylan acted as if he and the social activists in the folk community never had met&quot;) are by turns amusing and tiresome.  Also, his practice of phrasing all quotations in the past tense makes it impossible to differentiate between contemporary interview material and decades-old remarks without consulting the endnotes, unless the speaker is a person the reader knows to be dead.  Speaking of which, Hajdu tells his nonfictional story novel-style, not revealing the post-1966 fate of his subjects until the end of the book.  For those of us who already know why any story of this quartet would have to stop that year, the efforts at suspense can be slightly offputting.<br />These, of course, are minor criticisms.  For any fan of the folk music of the 1960s - especially those who weren't lucky enough to have been in Cambridge or Greenwich Village at the time - this book is a fascinating and welcome look inside a place and time that left a great mark on music history.	2001-07-31
US	51804428	R2C97BRHGM5F0E	0836280970	508978810	Good Grief: The Story of Charles M. Schulz	Books	4	10	11	N	N	As good a look as any we're likely to get	Half biography and half analysis of &quot;Peanuts,&quot; this book is an unconventional look at an unconventional subject.  It's now over a decade old and the references to Schulz in the present tense have an unintentionally poignant quality now, but it remains the best single source of information about the most influential cartoonist of all time.<br />Johnson's approach to Schulz is anything but chronological; she alternates her chapters between biographical sketches of Schulz and essays on &quot;Peanuts,&quot; its characters and the resonance of Schulz's work with his fans.  Also, the biographical chapters bounce around from his youth to the &quot;present&quot; (1989) and back again without a clear rhyme or reason.  It isn't an ideal arrangement, and the flow of the book is sometimes hard to follow as a result; but the rare look inside the world of the comic strip we know and love is well worth the patience.<br />Schulz was a highly religious and private man, and it shows in all of the windows on his world that Johnson provides.  From his humble beginnings in St. Paul to fame and fortune that he never quite seemed to accept, the quiet, somewhat troubled genius shows throughout the book, as do the sources of his dark and incredibly innovative comic strip.  Although Johnson details plenty of defining episodes in Schulz's life (including a deliciously heartbreaking chapter about Donna Mae Johnson, the real-life &quot;little red haired girl&quot; who spurned his marriage proposal in 1950), she allows his private experiences to remain such.  There's no dirty laundry here unless you count a few low-key but revealing remarks from Schulz about his politics.<br />The more analytical chapters do have a tendency to be repetitive and overly academic (How many times do we need to be told that Charlie Brown is a self-defeating character?), but they are also full of trivia and tidbits on long-forgotten characters and storylines.  The one storyline that was vetoed by Schulz's editors, the &quot;lost&quot; character Charlotte Braun, the one time adults appeared in the strip, other cartoon series Schulz drew both before and during the reign of &quot;Peanuts&quot;, the evolution of his drawings...even the most obsessive fan is likely to learn something s/he hadn't come across before.<br />Johnson reports that Schulz often worried about being remembered after his passing.  This book offers both an explanation of why he felt that way and a reminder of why he needn't have worried.	2001-07-19
US	51804428	R27F3KQYCC3M6W	0449909514	659818275	Fire with Fire: The New Female Power and How to Use It	Books	5	9	14	N	N	The perfect antidote to the &quot;Feminists hate men&quot; myth	I have long believed that the biggest obstacle to re-popularizing feminism is the inaccurate but widespread belief that feminism is fundamentally anti-male.  In this very well written tome, Wolf diagnoses this problem and points us all in the direction of overcoming it once and for all.<br />Wolf is rare among feminists in that she is not afraid to acknowledge that, while the patriarchy is primarily to blame for the continued pervasiveness of sexism, the feminist movement at large does hold some degree of responsibility for its own predicament.  In reading her assessment of &quot;victim feminism&quot; (which really does skate dangerously close to the stereotypes of male-bashing and self-defeatism for women), we see both the shortcomings of feminism in the 1980s and how the patriarchy expertly exploited those shortcomings.  We also see, once and for all, that being more accommodating is not in any way tantamount to giving up on the core values and principles of the movement.  Men and women both have responsibilities to improving gender relations; and by the same token we all deserve to be recognized for our efforts and judged as individuals.<br />Unfortunately, this book does sound a bit dated in that it was published in 1993 and Wolf appears to have seen that era's political gains as a harbinger of a progressive decade.  Throughout the book, I couldn't help wondering how her tone may have differed if she had written the book two or three years later.  But the core of her argument remains unchanged by the rise of the Republican Congress and the &quot;election&quot; of George W. Bush.  If anything, the call has only become more urgent for feminists of both genders to follow the lead Wolf has laid out for us.<br />I intend to urge all my male friends - and my more conservative female friends - to read this book.  I can't recommend it highly enough.	2001-07-05
US	51804428	R19VKLE6MXMHRG	0684865726	768333352	True At First Light: A Fictional Memoir	Books	2	1	2	N	N	The emperor has no clothes on this one...	I hesitate to be completely negative in reviewing what may well be the last Hemingway novel to be published (although I use the word &quot;novel&quot; loosely here).  There are occasional flashes of his brilliance sprinkled throughout the book, as well as images most other writers could never hope to match.  Bottom line, though, the simple-yet-evocative genius of &quot;A Farewell to Arms&quot; and &quot;The Old Man and the Sea&quot; is woefully absent this time around.<br />To the extent that there is a tale to follow in the book, it could easily be covered in 100 pages or less, but Patrick Hemingway (who pieced the book together from his father's incomplete manuscripts) allows it to ramble on for over three times that long.  This is something of a trademark of Hemingway, of course, but in his best works the reader's attention is held rapt by his narrative all the same.  Here, that narrative is just plain dull most of the time.  The final five chapters or so are bona fide page-turners, but getting to that point of the book can be a real chore.<br />Longtime fans will be interested in a few passages along the way, of course.  The naturalistic descriptions of hunting and the changes it brings about in the hunter, for example, are undeniably vintage Hemingway.  Additionally, his patented chauvinism is not only in evidence, it takes center stage throughout most of the book.  (One often gets the impression Hemingway is laughing at himself on the subject; or perhaps his son is trying too hard to acknowledge something.)  But why settle for bits and pieces of what made Hemingway great when there are entire books of it elsewhere?  The best thing I can say about &quot;True at First Light&quot; is that as a comparative piece, it's given me a better appreciation of his other works.  And hey, as an aspiring writer, it's good to remember that even the giants put out a dud now and then.	2001-06-29
US	51804428	R1T33ZS135IANL	0881336599	542536631	Elements of Agricultural Trade Policies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Short and to the point	Economics texts will never make for good bedtime reading, at least not for most of us.  But Houck's book is remarkable in its thorough and brief overview of agricultural trade.  All of the essential elements are here - tariffs, quotas, specialization, comparative advantage, subsidies, proportionality - as well as a look at how these tools apply to agricultural trade in particular.  Minimal prior knowledge is assumed; Houck's explanations are substantial but accessible, straightforward but never dumbed down.  As befits an introductory text, each chapter is amply supplied with suggestions for further reading.  While it's not long on theory or depth, this book serves as an excellent reference for understanding the basic questions and problems of trade.  Recommended for any intermediate economics student!	2001-02-09
US	51804428	R3C1OPJVR0EO6I	1556524056	960374428	This Wheel's on Fire: Levon Helm and the Story of the Band	Books	4	105	112	N	N	A collection of great memories - just not a complete one	The trouble with autobiographies - especially rock star autobiographies - is that it's entirely too easy for the author to leave out information s/he is uncomfortable with.  There is also a risk of turning your memoirs into a case of dirty laundry.  Both of these problems surface at some points in this otherwise excellent memoir of one of the best and most fascinating bands of the rock era.<br />There is no doubt that Helm is the genuine article when it comes to rock and roll music.  Born in rural Arkansas just before World War II, he grew up in the epicenter of the land and time that spawned the genre.  The early chapters, with his accounts of rock's emergence and his early involvement with the new music as a teenager, are among the book's strongest moments.  It is, after all, a story that needs to be told, given the fact that the radio and the rock press alike have been ignoring for decades the ongoing influence of the 1950s on post-Beatles rock.  You'll never ignore it again after reading Helm's priceless accounts of toiling across the South and Midwest, backing up rockabilly great Ronnie Hawkins.  Few others could offer the glimpses of that era that Helm does.<br />The evolution of Hawkins' band from a collection of Arkansas country boys to an all-Canadian (except for Helm) outfit was an unlikely one, but his account humanizes it all remarkably well.  There could be more information on the Band's &quot;lean years&quot; - roughly 1963-65 - after their involvement with Hawkins and before Bob Dylan stepped in, and Dylan himself is as enigmatic as ever even in the memory of one who knew him; but then again, this was the least productive stretch of their long career.  The background on the recording of their legendary albums from 1968-75 is priceless to anyone who's ever listened to them, as are Helm's tales of Woodstock, Watkins' Glen, and the 1966 British tour with Dylan.  Along the way we are treated to stories of all manner of hellraising when the boys weren't inthe studio.<br />But that's where the selectivity comes into play.  The Band was known in its heyday as one of the wildest bunch of womanizers on the road during its concert tours, but Helm avoids that issue entirely.  Additionally, he barely touches on the drug use that also plagued him and his Bandmates in the early '70s, although he doesn't hesitate to detail the transgressions of other rockers, notably Neil Young.  Helm has a right to keep all of this to himself, of course, but it does give us an incomplete picture of just what went on.<br />Then there's the Robbie Robertson issue.  Helm hadn't been on speaking terms with Robertson for years when he wrote the book, and it shows in his often vicious accounts of the growing divide between Robertson and the others.  This results in a glaring imbalance between the well-rounded profiles we get of Helm, Rick Danko, Richard Manuel and especially Garth Hudson, who has always been famously shy onstage, and the bitter caricature of Robertson.  Some of Helm's criticisms are probably deserved, but it remains a wildly imbalanced account.  Helm's biggest grievance, by the way, is his belief that Robertson got more songwriting credit than he deserved.  Listen to any of the Band's three 1990s albums (none of which featured Robertson in any way) alongside any of their earlier ones, and it's pretty clear that Robertson deserves most of the credit he's received for their brilliant lyrics.  Likewise, Helm's well-documented disdain for &quot;The Last Waltz&quot; might be justified, but the chapter recounting that legendary concert dissolves almost immediately into self-righteous outrage.  Too bad, because regardless of any behind-the-scenes ugliness, the surviving recordings of that night are superb.<br />For all those shortcomings, Helm's personal recollections are essential reading for any Band fan.  Many of the stories he tells could never be captured by any other writer, and if you're a fan you won't want to miss them.  Just don't let this be your only source of information about the Band.	2001-02-04
US	51804428	R3VQFLHQE5Q0RK	0836220803	776199094	Keep the Home Fries Burning : A For Better or for Worse Collection	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A great early collection!	This is my favorite of the early FBoFW collections, from back in the days  when it was only serious some of the time.  (Not that I don't like it now,  just that it is different these days!)  Chronologically speaking, this was  the era when Elizabeth went to kindergarten and Michael was in grade  school, so none of the teenage angst Johnston portrays so well is on  display here.  But childhood is played for plenty of laughs as we see  Elizabeth off to her first day of school (&quot;My baby has joined the  system,&quot; Elly muses) and Michael endures a Halloween party with his  mother as chaperone - one of the funnier sequences in the  collection.<br />There are a few Great Moments in Patterson History along the  way, as Connie and Lawrence move to Thunder Bay and the kids' friends Brian  and Dawn move into their old house.  Even Deanna Sobinski makes an early  appearance, though she doesn't look like the same person Johnston draws  today (then again, she was only nine years old).  And as always, we find  that there are laughs to be had in everyday events.  If you like the more  recent strips and books, you'll love this one.	2000-09-05
US	51804428	R8Z03ARWW3S48	0375400869	203371491	The Last Campaign: How Harry Truman Won the 1948 Election	Books	3	17	18	N	N	A good synopsis, but Karabell's colors are showing	This book provides a lot of information about one of the 20th century's  most fascinating elections, and it does so in a concise, accessible style.   Trouble is, it never goes into much depth, and the conclusions Karabell  draws about the aftermath of the election are essentially an echo of the  standard Republican Party lines we've all been hearing about more recent  campaigns. Karabell does try to be objective, and in places he does a good  job of it.  This is the first book I can recall reading that acknowledges  Strom Thurmond's efforts to avoid letting his Dixiecrat campaign become too  extreme, while never denying the racist he was and is.  He also offers a  somewhat balanced account of the question of Henry Wallace's degree of  sympathy toward communists, although he can't completely resist the  temptation to  tag Wallace as an apologist for the pawns of Moscow, if not  one himself.  It would have been nice to see more focus on Wallace's  stances on issues other than communism, though; there was much more to him  than that.  Karabell doesn't appear to have it out for Truman throughout  the book; refreshingly, he acknowledges that the &quot;liberal media&quot;  was anything but so in 1948 and that its unsparingly negative portrayal of  Truman contributed to the element of surprise when he won in November.  But  Karabell's characterization of Truman's campaign tactics is straight out of  the George W. Bush playbook:  Truman's attacks on the Republican 80th  Congress amounted to &quot;class warfare,&quot; we are told, with no  analysis at all of whether or not Republican policies of the day were in  fact detrimental to the well being of the working class and middle class,  and his &quot;unfair&quot; tactics led to the politically unfriendly  atmosphere of his second term.  Karabell implies repeatedly that such  polarization was unprecedented; perhaps he wasn't aware that a decade  beforehand, conservatives couldn't even bring themselves to refer to  Franklin Roosevelt by his real name; or that the Red Scare of 1919-1920 had  wiped out meaningful left-right debate for a decade.  Speaking of  redbaiting, Karabell even argues at one point that Truman's campaign style  was indirectly responsible for the rise of Joe McCarthy, who apparently  felt justified in destroying hundreds of lives because Truman had run  against the Taft-Hartley Act and the like.  (It is true that Truman's own  anticommunism helped pave McCarthy's way, but that's something else  entirely.)  Overall, this book does a decent job as far as the basic facts  are concerned, but Karabell's analysis is as wrong for 1948 as it is for  2000.  It would probably warrant another star if he'd left off the final  chapter.	2000-08-21
US	51804428	R2T5YYEZTD8C0L	0836228936	37995733	Stone Soup: The First Collection of the Syndicated Cartoon	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Who says feminism can't be funny?	There seems to be a lot of debate going on in the previous reviews over whether or not Stone Soup is feminist.  My opinion: of course it is!  And  it's quite refreshing to see a comic strip that isn't afraid to be.  Better  yet, the strip is never preachy and, unlike Foxtrot (to which it gets  compared frequently), it's almost always funny.  I've also seen a lot of  comparisons to For Better or for Worse (helped along perhaps by the fact  that Lynn Johnston wrote the introduction to this collection) which I find  closer to the truth.  The big difference there is that unlike FBoFW, Stone  Soup is almost never sentimental.  Eliot always finds a way to squeeze a  laugh out of good times and bad, without dwelling on her storylines or  overdeveloping them.  While her focus may be on single mothers, her humor  is accessible to one and all.  And of course, it helps that Val and the  gang always manage to keep their sanity intact at the end of each story!	2000-08-17
US	51804428	R959A9XO7TJ6U	0140189300	964793034	Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me (Penguin Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Should be required reading for all Ivy Leaguers	I read this book more than a year before I found myself attending grad  school at Yale - and am I ever glad I did!  I picked it up knowing nothing  about the book itself, being familiar with Farina only as a songwriter, and  when I saw that it was set in the fifties I knew I'd either love it or hate  it.  Luckily, this book presents the fifties in the eye of one who actually  lived through them and knew there was more to that decade than poodle  skirts and &quot;Ozzie and Harriet.&quot;  Indeed, as Thomas Pynchon's  great introduction explains, Farina himself epitomized many of the changes  the fifties saw, setting the stage for the following decade that has ever  since overshadowed it.  Of course Farina never tells the reader that he's  setting out to chronicle the crumbling of traditional Ivy League culture  into the rebelliousness that was about to emerge on campuses anywhere - he  just does it.  Anyone with a streak of Gnossos in him or her who has spent  any time in any of the older Northeastern universities and colleges will  recognize the mixture of pride, love and isolation he exhibits throughout  the book.  And they'll be glad he came before.  If you've outgrown  &quot;The Catcher in the Rye,&quot; you owe it to yourself to read this!	2000-08-03
US	51804428	R1PZI2NS346AE8	0916366561	422118317	Suzi Sinzinnati	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A quick, fun read	I stumbled onto this book in an unlikely way.  I work at the rare book library at Yale, and we received a shipment of Bellamy's papers - including early drafts of this book - recently which I was charged with putting in  order and filing.  Slipping into pleasure reading is an occupational hazard  in this job, and after browsing through the first few pages of Suzi  Sinzinnati, I knew I'd be picking it up next time I was on Amazon. I don't  regret it!  Bellamy paints a spare but unsparing picture of young love,  heartbreak, disappointment...and hope.  Our hero is Moke, a college  sophomore around 1960 whose high school sweetheart has dumped him recently  and is soon engaged to a psychologist.  (Yes, it's a bit cliched, but it  works...)  Home in Cincinnati for a brief summer visit, he drowns his  sorrow in strip joints - and promptly falls for a young dancer who lends  her stage name to the book.  A whirlwind adventure ensues in which the girl  and her mother (also in the business) follow Moke to his parents' new home  in Florida, where his father is involved in what sounds like a borderline  religious cult.  This is what used to be the &quot;real&quot; Florida,  before Disney World, Jimmy Buffett and beachfront condos (though all these  changes are hinted at) and Bellamy does a first rate job of evoking this  lost world. In fact, Moke's coming of age often seems to be intertwined  with the foreshadowing of the changes that would take the world by storm in  the coming decade.  The fact that the reader knows what happened next to  Moke's world adds to the tension in a wonderful way.  What follows is the  stuff of schoolboy fantasies, just real enough to be plausible, short but  sweet before Moke has to head back to school and make his peace with both  his past (the lost love) and his future (medical school, and whether he  really wants it).  The last few chapters are truly touching, and will keep  you rooting for Moke to the end.  There are a number of hilarious incidents  along the way, including an episode in a Cincinnati library that will  elicit a knowing laugh from anyone who has ever stumbled into an  opposite-sex restroom, that lighten the mood as necessary but never divert  your attention completely from Moke's growing pains.  Not quite a classic,  but I recommend it.	2000-07-31
US	51804428	R3PLJ4KLKLEGIB	0836211669	353694141	I've Got the One-More-Washload Blues : A For Better or for Worse Book	Books	2	19	24	N	N	Better to start your FBorFW collection elsewhere	This is the first &quot;For Better or For Worse&quot; collection, and it's pretty clear that Lynn Johnston was still just finding her voice and style in most of these strips.  It's pretty fascinating for serious fans to see  the oldest strips, but there's not a lot to recommend this book beyond the  historical value. My biggest problem with this collection is that the  characters aren't very consistent with what they soon became.  John in  particular is chauvinistic, insensitive, dumb...and in general, not very  funny.  Sure, he's always had an element of cluelessness to him, but  usually that's only in the context of a man who loves and respects his wife  and family.  Not here.  In fact, it's interesting to note that in the three  FBorFW anthologies, the strips drawn from this era either don't feature  John at all or play down the personality we're treated to here.  That makes  me think Johnston might have decided there was some excess in these strips.      I didn't find myself caring about the Pattersons as well as laughing at  them the way I usually do. Also, there are few multi-strip stories here;  mostly it's a one-off gag with each strip.  Which is okay, except that  Johnston is sooooo good at the longer stories, of course they're missed. To  wrap up, it's pretty simple.  If you're a serious fan, you'll want this  book.  If you love battle-of-the-sexes jokes, you'll definitely want this  book.  If you're hoping for more early stories of the Pattersons we've come  to know and love...look elsewhere!	2000-07-11
US	51804428	R13E7V567N35QU	0740702092	39026376	The Lives Behind the Lines : 20 Years of For Better or For Worse	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A bit pretentious, but I liked it	This book is great for fans like myself who aren't quite old enough to have followed all the storylines the strip has covered, and who wonder about the stories behind the secondary characters. I do have my limits, and  as much as I love FBOFW, we all know it can be schmaltzy sometimes.  That  definitely shows through here and there in this book, and on occasion I  think Johnston tries a bit too hard to fill in all the blanks regarding her  characters - this is fiction, after all.  It's not really a very good place  to start if you're just catching on to the strip (one of the older  anthologies would be much better in that case). But if you're a serious  fan, you won't want to be without this book.  I'm glad I picked it up.	2000-05-16
US	51804428	R29XTP7940COFG	0385324057	902500282	Summer Sisters	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Where's the love?	I bought this one simply because I'm a Blume fan from way back; I can recall staying up way past my bedtime with a flashlight under the covers to find out if Margaret ever got her period, etc. What I've always loved most about her characters, male or female, was the fact that no matter who you were, you could identify with them and root for them in some way.<br />Which is what I found so disappointing about this book. It's well-written and the characters are terrifically developed as always. . .but they're just completely unlikable! Yes, I had friends like Caitlin when I was growing up, but I grew up and for the most part, they never did. As for Vix, she just doesn't ring true to me; that's not a working-class kid talking, period. And I've never known anyone as mature and well adjusted as she sounds, who would pine for a high school crush like that, especially when he never really grows up either. Better luck next time, Judy.	1998-09-23
