US	51814776	R2OCLQ445X0IT0	158261802X	276147416	John Starks: My Life	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Turning Himself Around	John Starks' story is full of inspiration.  The man grew up in a rough area of Tulsa, Oklahoma without a fatherly figure.  His mother and grandmother instilled some positive attributes.  However, John faced many troubles growing up and his brothers had a mixed influence on him.<br /><br />However, John Starks perservered from a troubled youth stocking shelves in Safeway to an NBA All Star.  John overcame many obstacles in the NBA and earned the respect of many of his peers in spite of a few overzealous actions on his part.<br /><br />What really comes accross in this book(and from listening to John speak in person) is the that Mr. Starks has turned into quite an articulate and intelligent young man.  He sets a good example as a USBL coach and certainly would be a good candidate to coach in the NBA.  John's strong work ethic will indeed carry him to much further success.<br /><br />A good read even for Chicago Bull, Miami Heat and Indiana Pacer fans!	2005-04-09
US	51814776	R3AERGO8VXAQWG	1582618186	724934323	King of the Ring: The Harley Race Story	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Strong On Character But Needing So Much More	King of the Ring gives a basic insight into the wrestling world of Harley Race.  He tells some good stories here and there about his mat wars and some of the people he met along the away.  Based upon his long career in wrestling, Harley's bio does command some interest.<br /><br />However, this book is a mere 178 pages.  What it clearly lacks is some detail about some of the people in his lives. Little is mentioned about Harley's family. Who were his close wrestling comrades?  Harley keeps that a bit of a mystery.  Somehow you know very little about his personal feelings.<br /><br />Also Harley's writing style is quite dry and run of the mill.  Very little humor is shown and one just gets the impression that Harley was just a man's man who wants to add his two cents.<br /><br />Don't get me wrong, Harley Race was a big player in the history of professional wrestling.  Certainly his point of view is greatly valued.  However, much more detail is needed to enhance Race's influence on the wrestling business.	2005-02-19
US	51814776	R1OH8JV0895O1S	0910019665	215996015	How to Pick Up Foreclosures: A Step-By-Step Guide for Getting Super Discounted Property Before the Auction	Books	2	9	9	N	N	A Decent Handout, Less Value As A Book	If I were attending a lecture for a few dollars, I would find the basic information included in here somewhat helpful.  The outline formats advising to seek out real estate agents, lawyers, and court offices are decent starting points.  Some of the questions to ask are good for organizational purposes.<br /><br />However, Cook glosses over some of the key aspects of understanding the complexities of Foreclosures. Other terminology could be explained in more detail specifically related to loan issues.<br /><br /> Perhaps if Wade Cook took the time to write a few more pages instead of promoting his other resources, more readers would be satisfied with his product.  This lack of effort can cause people to wonder what Cook's true motives are.<br /><br />Somehow Cook did better with Wall Street Money Machine as he touched on more topics and provided better advise.  Also the promotion was a little less obvious.  Look for a more in depth foreclosure book as this one has the feel of a lecture handout rather than a book.	2005-02-18
US	51814776	R3VY4OBIIFAA6C	0806520213	755388673	How To Meet The Right Woman: A Five-Step Strategy That Really Works	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Excellent Plan	How To Meet the Right Woman by Roger Ratcliff is a well written book that cuts to the meat of the dating sceen from a man's point of view.  Roger breaks down the mystery into a concrete five step plan that is very sensible.  Throughout the book he applies those steps to meet women in singles bars, at the beach, on the ski lift, and at the airport. Some special tips are given to single dads.  A special mention to all guys out there is to take dance lessons.  The rational behind it is very sound as why wouldn't a lady be attracted to a man who knows how to handle himself on the dance floor.<br /><br />This book is very easy to read with some good charts that will help you get in touch with yourself and plan your approach better.  Highly recommended on all levels.	2005-02-13
US	51814776	R2VP3ONQVJJ33H	1558747060	263193693	Chicken Soup for the Single's Soul	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very Touching	A true pick me up.  101 stories of hope. I just read this book from cover to cover over the past month.  However, this is a true prize to re-read as many of these stories can pick you up when you are feeling down.  Some of them make you feel that there is a super power out there watching over you when life has dealt you a bad card.<br /><br />This is not to say that all the stories are about those people who are down on their luck.  Many are about good people who find true love in a very magical way.  A lot fo the themes are about perservering but other times its a matter of having an open heart.<br /><br />My overall impression is that this book is truly heart felt.	2005-02-08
US	51814776	R8J4O5101D83V	0887309097	244056746	How to Succeed in Business Without Being White: Straight Talk on Making It in America	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Very Influential For All Races	I came accross this book in a search for people I grew with from my childhood days.  Whereas my relationship with one of Earl's sons was mixed at best, I realized that my classmate grew up in a very unique environment and was curious as to that lifestyle.<br /><br />Let me say that How To Suceed In Business Without Being White is an extremely well written book on business and life.  Yes it is written from an African Man's struggles and successes in establishing a better place for his people.  However, the principles, values, thoughts, ideas, etc that Earl Graves discusses is definitely something that applies to people of all races. Earl discusses the importance of standing up for your family and your fellow man.  I enjoyed reading the pieces where he actively sold for his son, Butch to get his fair shot at an NBA career.  Also, it was nice to read about how Earl influenced his children to do their own yardwork and to keep close ties with each other.  The Graves family court segment comment is amusing.<br /><br /> The fact that he discusses things from an African American point of view should not be lost on the white man or other races by any means.  There is some very valuable advice that is given on franchising, investing,entrepreneurship, childraising, networking, and Family loyalty where anyone can gain knowledge.<br /><br />Its good to read of someone who values hard work and the opportunity to compete effectively in today's ever changing business world.  Earl Graves articulates these values in a very captivating way and I highly recommend this book for business people black or white or otherwise.	2005-02-06
US	51814776	R1NI1UQAXCCA1K	0316908452	428374099	A Salty Piece of Land	Books	2	6	7	N	N	A Journey of The Carribean and Wildly Diverting Tangents	I have to agree with Mr. Bob Crandle on this one.  Jimmy Buffett's A Salty Piece of Land is all over the Carribean and it journeys without focus.  Yes, there are some interesting moments here and there most notably describing 102 year old Cleopatra, the wild party with Noelle Christmas and Dawn and Tully's eventual meeting with Sophie and Montana.  These detailed character descriptions do work well.<br /><br />However, a good novel has a story with rising action, a plot, and a final conclusion. A Salty Piece of Land is quite lacking in these critical areas. Buffett overloads his audience with never ending subplots and side stories that makes this piece of work uncomprehensible in way too many spots.<br /><br />Never has the saying less is more rang true.  Jimmy Buffett writes about so many light hearted tales with some focus in his many musical recordings.  Its a shame he could not stick more to that formula in writing this novel.  Parrot Heads you need to realize that this book is truly for the birds.	2005-02-01
US	51814776	R2SYFYWEF32NHU	044652770X	995699181	On the Run: A Mafia Childhood	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A Childhood From Hell	Gregg and Gina Hill sure have some stories to tell. Their memoirs portray an extremely disfunctional family loaded with numerous criminal activity, physical abuse, drug addicition, sexual escapades, and much more.  The world of Henry Hill is exposed to the world as a self-serving mobster.  Its amazing how both Gina and Henry's wife are enamored by the gangster life.  Gregg merely tolerates it during his. early years but then becomes the first to rebel against it.<br /><br />Its very interesting to watch as how each of the family members turn out.  Sadly they seem to each go in a different direction.  At least Greg and Gina each find lives that are reasonably rewarding and satisfying as compared to the constant violence they were subjected to as children.<br /><br />Overall an intriguing account of life inside a mobster family.	2005-01-24
US	51814776	RI2IQGN15A925	1591840635	728810135	Pay It Down! From Debt to Wealth on $10 a Day	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Sensible	Jean Chatsky's book Pay It Down! From Debt to Wealth on $10 a Day offers some comprehensive solutions to common financial issues many of us face.  Chatsky suggests that many consumers fall into bad habits and need to discipline themselves.  Some suggestions that are practical include  brown bag lunches to work,minimizing cell phone use, consolidating credit card usage whenever possible, and purchasing food that you are going to consume immediately.  Furthermore, there is some good insight on credit ratings and how one should request credit reports to avoid common mistakes.  Example if you have a common name of someone who has credit issues, you could be a victim of someone else's irresponsible behavior.<br /><br />This book is written in an easy to read quick manner where even someone of below average intelligence can get the essence of Chatsky's purpose. This book is merely 215 pages of valuable information that can be re-read for emphasis.  A worthwhile purchase or at least a rental for someone who needs to gain some financial responsibility.	2005-01-03
US	51814776	R3B7ZVMABOL2MZ	089732546X	914847818	60 Hikes Within 60 Miles: New York City: With Northern New Jersey, Southwestern Connecticut, and Western Long Island	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Fine Resouce For NY Area Hikers	Christopher Brooks surely did his homework in writing 60 Hikes within 60 Miles: New York City: with northern New Jersey, southwestern Connecticut, and western Long Island.  The details on the many hikes in the Tri State area are very helpful.  One can easily trace around the suggested trails that Brooks provides.  Also Brooks adds a little history to many of the recommended trails.<br /><br /> He gives equal emphasis to New Jersey, Connecticut, Long Island, and the Hudson Region.  Also a comprehensive index is provided so the reader can easily distinguish flat hikes from vigorous climbs to ones to bring the children on.  Every base is covered as this book is a fantastic guide for anyone looking to explore new hiking trails in the New York area.	2004-11-30
US	51814776	RO1CKF7I89AZE	0060515007	4970406	How to Keep Kosher: A Comprehensive Guide to Understanding Jewish Dietary Laws	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Informative and Educational	How to Keep Kosher : A Comprehensive Guide to Understanding Jewish Dietary Laws is very helpful for all audiences to kosher law.  Many issues are discussed relating to holiday customs, not mixing milk and meat, the role of paerve foods, and kashering a kitchen.  The differences between Orthodox, Conservative, Reconstructionist, and Reform views are discussed although it seems as if the Orthodox and Conservative views seem to get the most emphasis.  Also some discussion on the customs of Succos, Passover, Chanukah, Shabbat, and High Holy Days exist.<br /><br />Also very helpful are a list of recipies and Jewish information resources make a comprehensive glossary.  Overall How to Keep Kosher : A Comprehensive Guide to Understanding Jewish Dietary Laws is a helpful resource particularly to those trying to learn about Kosher law.	2004-11-28
US	51814776	R1EFPZNJJXPCCC	0814404766	441092774	The 2000 Percent Solution: Free Your Organization from "Stalled" Thinking to Achieve Exponential Success	Books	2	23	26	N	N	Ho Hum	Everyone seems to love this book.  Me, I find it long on theory and a bit short on examples.  The writing style sounds like reasonable corporate management theory.  However the examples are just not very memorable and even quite boring.<br /><br />Truthfully the authors could have been better served by talking in a language that would reach a wider audience.  They over-analyze this stall process like its a big part of organizations today.  The big part of succesful organizations is those who encouragement teamwork.  This is hardly emphasized here or if it is the dry writing style hides it quite well.<br /><br />Some good theory yes, but overall The 2000 Percent Solution has a dull dry style that really only delivers at 40%.	2004-11-10
US	51814776	R1DKOH2OKDG0LQ	1580083102	968842950	Negotiating Your Salary: How to Make $1000 a Minute	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great Reference	Negotiating Your Salary is an excellent resource for both the job seeker and those looking to get a good raise.  Author Jack Chapman emphasizes many key points most notably selling your value to the organization instead of whining and crying about a raise.  The importance of letting the employer talk money first is stressed.  Still another aspect of a satisfying job offer/raise is to research salaries in your field.  A perspective employer may think very highly of you by making the effort to do good research.<br /><br />In addition to presenting detailed information in an easy to read matter, Negotiating Your Salary offers many good research tools to perfect your craft at obtaining a worthwhile salary.  This book is a definitely a valuable tool that will never get too stale and provides insight that will last a lifetime.	2004-09-12
US	51814776	RC7N762S8U6JD	0743456912	266732750	Ric Flair: To Be the Man (WWE)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Simply Excellent	Ric Flair is the latest wrestler to offer his biography to the world.  And I must say its the best one yet topping the strong efforts of the Hardy Boyz, Jerry lawler, and the first somewhat overrated offering by Mick Foley.<br /><br />Ric Flair's bio is more like a history of the wrestling business.  Ric Flair's career expands from Buddy Rodgers to Verne Gagne to Superstar Billy Graham to Hulk Hogan to Bret Hart to the superstars of today.  The fact that many wrestlers have contributed quotes to this book shows that Ric Flair's word is indeed respected by many of his peers.<br /><br />More importantly Ric Flair takes the reder into the lockerroom of the many eras of this form of Sports Entertainment. The reader can certainly feel what Mr. Flair faced in his long storybook career as opposed to lesser bios. Ric Flair shoots straight in his commentary of his peers.  Some may feel that his feelings towards Bret Hart, Mick Foley, Randy Savage, Sid Justice,  Hulk Hogan, Brutus Beefcake, and others are harsh.  But if you read in between the lines, Ric Flair offers sound reasons for his opinions.  Example:  Hulk Hogan did make wrestling mainstream in other entertainment circles.  However, the Hulkster rarely elevated rising young wrestling stars at his own expense.  Ric Flair always \\"sold\\" for his peers.  Furthermore Ric Flair was a true wrestler with true feelings whereas Mick Foley's perspective remains one of a masochistical stuntman with some humor and mixed credibility.<br /><br />If you want a true account of a wrestlers life and the history of the wrestling business, this is the biography to read.	2004-09-12
US	51814776	R2G69J7R4ZIOWF	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Strong On Perspective	The Five People You Meet in Heaven by Mitch Albom will touch the introspective side in your soul.  Mitch Albom writes of Eddie, a maintenace man who feels that he has lived an ordinary life.  When an accident takes his life one day, he is visited by five people whom he was connected.  Whereas Eddie did not see their profound effect from his point of view, each of these souls certainly were shaped by Eddie.<br />The story of the Blue Man really opened up how one action can cause a chain reaction of emotions.  The tale of Eddie's father shows how toughness on the outside can hide the gentle kind soul on the inside.  Also greater insight is given to the war is hell statement in two of the other lessons. And we can not forget about the feelings of true love and how it effects us when someone is here and later gone.<br />One can certainly gain good perspective on life's lessons by reading The Five People You Meet In Heaven.	2004-05-18
US	51814776	RZ8Q4YCT15B5S	0345440439	661468766	Do What You Love for the Rest of Your Life: A Practical Guide to Career Change and Personal Renewal	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Good Structure	Do What You Love for the Rest of Your Life : A Practical Guide to Career Change and Personal Renewal by Bob Griffiths  can certainly stand on its merits.  It gives good case histories detailing how various people he interviewed turned their careers around.  It discusses the different sacrifices ech had made.  The story about the Wall Street tycoon who managed everone else's money but his own seems to stand out the most.<br />However, this leads me to the weakness of this book.  I finished this book abouttwo weeks ago and the main thing that stands out is the organizational structure and that many things can influence a person into changing a career.  If you were to ask me the specific details behind the case studies, I really can not remember much.  Part of it is Griffith's writing style and part of it could be that the stories themselves are really not overly inspiring.  In other words, tehre are probably ten other similar stories out there.  That is good in the sense that people can relate to Griffiths.  However, in depicting a specific case study somehow the inspiration level is decent as opposed to excellent.<br />Nonetheless, this book is worthy if not quite over the top.	2004-05-18
US	51814776	R32ZDZXTCSUO79	0066620996	205785288	Good to Great: Why Some Companies Make the Leap and Others Don't	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Good Overview But A Little Dry and Monotonous	Good to Great stands strong on its good research team.  The book details eleven successful companies and their competitors.  One main issue is that these successful companies thrived because of leaders who did not let adversity defeat them.  They perservered without letting egos get in the way.<br />Another point that Goods to Great makes lies in the steady periods of marketing their products.  The great companies did not rely on the latest fads.  Rather these companies relied on a business model that was modified due to changes in the conomy.<br />The book does repeat itself in several chapters.  To some degree its for emphasis and in other respects the wording just could be better. Smart yes, engaging not always.  This could lose some audiences.  However, the statistics and research give this summary on business conditions some strong merits.	2004-05-08
US	51814776	R1H7NY488VVKTI	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	3	9	24	N	N	Ok But Not Revered	Sometimes you wonder what makes a book such a best seller.  Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code has some suspense and intrigue.  However the complicated symbols and coding does not come over too clearly.  Also, it relates to a small audience.<br />Furthermore, the character development is mediocre at best.  The reader gets a very basic idea of what makes each character tick.<br />I will admit that the ending is quite creative.  There are a few interesting non-predictable moments as well.  However, the scope seems for fans of mystery and intrigue.  Nonetheless, there must be a lot of fans for that type of novel because this book is selling quite well.	2004-04-19
US	51814776	R3G9UBNC8TVQY6	006057657X	767162199	Winning with the Dow's Losers: Beat the Market with Underdog Stocks	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Sound Investment Advice For These Times	Charles B. Carlson's Winning With The Dow's Losers is an excellent resource for today's investor.  The wealth of information provided between the covers is both unbiased and rich in content.<br /> Carlson provides extensive charts and graphs displaying key statistical information where anyone can easily evaluate for their own purposes. The section where Carlson evaluates each of the 30 DOW stocks is quite exemplary. Even though the information is pretty current, Carlson keeps into account the trends of the market.  He is conscience that such DOW Stocks as Eastman Kodak and AT&amp;T might not be in touch with the current market conditions.  Therefore, it may not be profitable to investment money in thoses stocks even after a battered down prior year.  He also provides insight on future changes in the DOW and possible new candidates in the 30.  Further analysis into the DOW Transport and Utility stocks are given as well.<br /> The main focus of the book is to guide the reader on the simple stragegies of investing in reliable DOW Stocks and to turn over your portfolio systematically from year to year.  However, the supplemental points as illustrated above certainly make this book fully loaded with valuable information.  Therefore, I say keep this one handy on your shelf.	2004-04-03
US	51814776	R31Y371MKNIUHU	0071421491	90378931	If Not Stocks, What?	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Suitable Quick Study	If you are a little confused on where to put your money, If Not Stocks What? may be the antitdote to your perplexed mind.<br />The stock market has gone through many changes over the past few years.  Many investors are a little fearful of losing a chunkof their money in a here today gone tommorow tech stock or a deceptive company like Enron.<br /> Gene Walden outlines in simple language the strenghts and weaknesses of many alternate investment vehicles such as convertible bonds, collectibles, tresury bills, and real estate partnerships and trusts.  Walden discusses in each chapter the proper timing strategies. In addition, he guides each vehicle to a particular audience. Example:  you would not buy into a long term treasury bill during a rising bull market unless you possibly are looking to preserve your income for retirement.<br />Some good reference information is provided.  An extensive list of Real Estate Investment Trusts is provided in the first chapter with the appropriate symbols.  Also, a few web sites are provided to educate one's self on bonds and treasuries.<br />This book is a good general reference as it certainly won't overwhelm its audience.  A more savvy investor might want to purchase some with a little more detail instead of or in addition to this book.	2004-03-25
US	51814776	R3QPFBCX034H0N	094244020X	475305417	Fifty hikes in Connecticut: Short walks and day hikes around the Nutmeg State	Books	3	2	2	N	N	It Gives You The Basics, The Rest Is Up To You	Gerry and Sue Hardy hae put together a basic guide to fifty hikes in teh State of Connecticut.  Its easy to scan through and pick out easy hikes from hard ones as they ordered well.  Some basic maps are provided and light overview of the trail.<br />However, if you want more information, you are based served to research on the Internet.  You will discover that some of the Nature Centers are part of other organizations.  And these larger organizations offer different and alternate hiking trails.  In other words, the book is a bit outdated.<br />The moral of this review is for you to investigate these trails further as only a basic overview is provided here.  Therefore, the three star rating sounds appropriate.	2004-03-02
US	51814776	R3VSDCURYUOWOG	0385511612	430694437	Bleachers	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Glory Days Gone By	Bleachers is a nice memoir of the glory days of High School Football.  All the elements are there.  The stern taskmaster coach, the young buck football heroes who feel the world is their oyster, and all the characters who support and or even endure their many actions.<br />In 163 pages, Grishma gives a fairly nice portrait of a small town where the football coach had more power than the mayor. In addition, the football players were all put on a pedestal above anyone lese.  However, when the players graduated to their future, things did not materialize as planned.  Different towns  and different times produce very different results as our hero Neely soon realizes when a cheap shot ends his pro football career.  He later realizes that he cannot even win back the heart of his old flame.  However, he is able to put things in perspective and realize lessons learned and bridges burned.<br />There are moments all the talk among the football players gets to be one big blur.  And certainly this is not a compelling book for those who did not relate to high school sports.  However, Grisham makes some good points that Bruce Springsteen will echo:  Glory Days Will Pass You By.	2004-02-22
US	51814776	RJ93GZQE29RHP	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Thrilling From Start To Finish	Joseph Finder's Paranoia is an exciting tale of corporate espionage from start to finish.  Yes unlike some of the other reviewers on this page, I find the ending not so predicatable.  It also leaves the door open for a possible sequel.<br />The story depicts Adam Cassidy, a disenchanted engineer who gets caught manipulating the company security system.  He gets forced into becomming a spy on the competition.  At this point he gets lured into many moments of  a false sense of security.  Yes he is pampered with many luxuries.  However, Adam must always look around to cover himself.  Nonetheless, the many relationships he forms with the employees of the company that he is spying on is quite thought provoking.<br /> Most touching is Cassidy's relationship with his ailing father.  Adam tries to please his father by showing him what great luxuries he has at his disposition. However, his father cautions Adam to the reality that the coporation owns and controls his life.  Adam almost overlooks this bottomline situation.<br />Joseph Finder writes in a clear but detailed manner and keeps his audience hooked at many junctures of this very thrilling novel.  Whereas there are great similarities to The Firm and Disclosure, the execution of this story is at least as captivating as those other two novels if not more so.<br /> The rumour I hear is that this novel will be made into a film in the not so distant future.  If so, Paranoia may become a cultural event.  At the moment it is certainly a cutting edge novel that is deservedly flying up the Best Sellers List.  Take my advice and seek out this novel right away.	2004-02-07
US	51814776	R1HG2BX6POTADJ	0881505579	253821787	50 Hikes in the Lower Hudson Valley: Hikes and Walks from Westchester County to Albany (50 Hikes Series)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Valuable Tool For NY Area Hikers	50 Hikes In The Lower Hudson Valley is a valuable guide to some good trails .  Stella Green and Neil Zimmerman provide detailed descriptions on 50 quality hikes.  The accompanying maps along with these vivid descriptions are pretty easy for someone who would like to lead a group of hikers.  The pictures are quite scenic as well.<br />The authors are a little inconsistent when it comes to providing telephone numbers for contact information about some trails.  Also, the authors lock into one route on many of the hikes without taking into consideration easier trails for light hikers.  However, the maps provided and the use of the internet can get around this minor issue.<br />Nonetheless, this is a valuable reference book for many audiences.	2004-02-03
US	51814776	R1G3XE8JGHR81H	0743477200	482833151	The Stone Cold Truth (WWE)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Let The Truth Be Known	Steve Austin's bio is an intriguing tale of how Steve Williams emerged as a wrestling icon.  Some good information is provided about Steve's growing up in a fair but firm family environment.  Steve's pre WWE days are discussed with some detail specifically is relationship with Brian Pillman.  Steve certainly learned how to cut a promo from his former tag team partner.<br />Of course the information on Steve's WWE escapades are extremely interesting.  Steve does show how is in ring persona is an extension of his personality but not the true man inside.  He discusses his relationship with Vince McMahon, Kevin Nash, Owen Hart, and others in a fair way.  Steve is also fair in discussing his personal life and his failed marriages.  He understands his shortcommings and that is the sign of a true man.<br />The overall impression is that the reader gets a true inside story of Steve Austin, WWE icon.	2004-01-24
US	51814776	R2CEWROBWJQZP	0471383384	629710903	Sold Short : Uncovering Deception in the Markets	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Not What I Expected	My original hope when picking this book up from the library was to learn about shorting stocks.  Unfortunately Manuel Asensio's book is written on a level where few people can even relate.  Mr. Asensio speaks in a language that only very experienced stock shorters can even understand.  Whereas some of Asensio's use of language is a bit colorful, he writes wildly about all these key names like his audience is completely familiar with unknown CEO's from unknown companies.  Why not talk about some of the big time tech stocks that tanked in the early 2000's like Yahoo, Sun Microsystems, and the late Enron?  I actually stopped reading this book midway because of the incessant name dropping.<br />There are a few pages where Ansensio talks about stock shorting basics and how he  started in the business.  Maybe if Ansensio related to a wider audience, this book would hae a good reputation.  Like this he merely talks how he uncovers terrible fraud and should be viewed as a champion of justice.  Mr. Ansensio, you need a big time reality check.	2004-01-08
US	51814776	RJZG8ZVIIUPZR	1932156348	20974594	How to Start a Business in New York City (Smart Start)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Has The Entrepreneurial Spirit	How To Start A Business In New York is a valuable book for those budding entrepreneurs.  This resource covers all bases when discussing legal, financial, marketing, employment, and many other issues.<br />The comparisons on sole proprietorships, partnerships, and corporations are outlined in a very easy to read manner comparing advantages and disadvantages of both.  Issues related to non for profits and s corporations are discussed in an easy to read language.<br />Many good laws are discusssed here to education the budding business osner.  The Family Leave Act, The Civils Rights Acts, and  Americans With Disablities issues are discussed in a friendly way. Counseling resources are provided as well.<br />The financial sections are quite intriguing as well.  Most notable are the discussions regarding creating a business plan.  The sample on the fictious company Evergreen Lawn Care is very helpful as many aspects of how the business plans to succede are discussed.<br />The only minor drawback is in the employment section.  These days when people advertise for a job, a telephone number is not included due to control demand.  Email addresses, fax numbers, and in rare cases mailing addresses are mentioned.  Furthermore, since this book was published recently, the author should have stressed the importance of developing a website for employment issues as well as marketing and other concerns.<br />Otherwise, this book is a very useful resource for the many people who are even mildly intrigued at the prospect of starting their own business.	2004-01-02
US	51814776	R2AEFUFH4WMUQU	0811729281	389226182	Snowshoeing	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Short But Sweet	This is an excellent book for someone looking to gain familiarity with the fast growing sport.  Steven Griffin gives an excellent overview into many subjects.  He discusses how snowshoes have developed over the years and how to pick the right ones.  The improtance of bindings is nicely discussed.  In addition, Griffin adds that snowshoeing is really quite easy to learn. Also key equipment is discussed in great detail.<br />Many valuable safety tips are provided as well.  The author goes as far as how to rescue someone from an avalanche and key signs of danger to be on the lookout for. Example: Don't walk over partially frozen lakes.<br />This is a valuable book that can be read quite quickly as I finished it on a roundtrip commuter ride.	2004-01-01
US	51814776	R2OCS6WCO43AW0	0802111475	310547336	Festival Days: A History of Jewish Celebrations	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Some Good Information	Festival Days is a good light read to gain insight into the Jewish Holidays. There is some good commentary on the Sabbath as well as both major and minor holidays. Especially noteworthy is the commentary on Chanukah and true meaning behind the great miracle of the survival of the Jews during this trying period in their history.<br /> The author also adds a nice background into the history of the Jewish people and how they observed  whether in Russia, during the Spanish Inquisition or in other eras.<br />Whereas this short book is not overly essential, it certainly can provide some good insight with an interesting detail or two.	2004-01-01
US	51814776	R3TG1RDZ8N769J	0517205823	426221669	The Christian Book of Why	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good Overview	Like the Jewish Book of Why, The Christian Book of Why gives a fine overview of key elements of Christianity.  Issues such as Jesus, holidays, life events, and customs are discussed in easy to read detail.<br />I would have liked to have read more questions and answers related to the differences between different denominations.  An example would be the differences between the practices of Catholics and Protestants.  As a non-Christian my understanding of this is not so strong.<br />Nonetheless, the Christian Book of Why is a very good resource for those who desire a general overview of the Christian religion.	2003-12-14
US	51814776	R22DE51N5RUY9H	0895260735	635145623	Ain't No Rag: Freedom, Family, and the Flag	Books	3	6	16	N	N	Mixed Feelings	I have always liked the music of Charlie Daniels.  The country rock beat and the patriotic and descriptive sentiment to Charlie's lyrics are always pleasing to the ear.<br />However, as an author, Charlie's work is a mixed bag.  I enjoy reading about Charlie's feelings about the wonderful places that he has visited across the United States.  He creates many beautful scenes describing Alaska, The Rocky Mountains, Mount Rushmore, and the Cheynne skyline with soaring eagles and love sick wipperwills.  I love the story about travelling through the backroads as opposed as the highways.<br />Some of Charlie's insight into the music business is also quite interesting.  Its nice to hear Charlie's experiences with such musical luminaries as Bob Dylan, Ronnie Van Zandt, and the members of the Marshall Tucker Band.<br />However, when Mr. Daniels discusses politics, his insight is not so keen.  Where in the world does Charlie Daniels get his insight on so many governmental issues?  Certainly not his high school education and one sided interpretations of the issues that face this country.<br />Yes, maybe the actions of some of the Hollywood Crowd particularly one Sean Penn seem inappropriate.  However, his attitudes towards other religions are quite narrow minded.  He praises Christian values to the high hill but barely says anything about the Jewish values that make up a part of this country and significant part of the roots of Christianity.  Furthermore, he brushes over Buddhism in a way as if he does not want these people in his world.  Furthermore, his stand on Islam is quite prejudiced.  Mr. Daniels, since you openly admit that you do not know everything about Islam, why do you only present the negative side of Islam?  Not all Muslims are extremists like the terorists that blew up the World Trade Center.  Most of the problem is with a few sects in the Muslim World.  Many Muslims are normal citizens like you and me.<br />Also, Daniels' stand on abortions are way off base.  Again only one side of the story is discussed as sometimes a pregnancy must be aborted to save the life of the mother.  Also, young people make mistakes.  Do you want to bring a child into a difficult environment.  A fetus is a different issue than a living breathing baby.<br />Also, if some lawyer offends you by making a comment about giving certain terorists a fair US trial, try to get his name?  You weaken your point by not gathering all the facts.<br />Deep down I can tell that Charlie Daniels is a well meaning soul.  He gives wonderful insight upon the places that he has visited, his childhood experiences as well as his time spent as a musician especially when entertaining handicapped and downtrodden people.  However, as a politician, Mr.Daniels needs to view both sides of the issue before rambling off on issues that he is not well informed.  Some of his political leanings are reasonable. However, way too many of these opinions come across ignorant and one sided. Lets just say Charlie Daniels should focus on his music career first and leave the political commentary to more astute minds.gain only one side of the story is discussed as sometimes a pregnancy must be aborted to save the life of the mother.  Also, young people make mistakes.  Do you want to bring a child into a difficult environment.  A fetus is a different issue than a living breathing baby. <br />Also, if some lawyer offends you by making a comment about giving certain terorists a fair US trial, try to get his name?  You weaken your point by not gathering all the facts.<br />Deep down I can tell that Charlie Daniels is a well meaning soul.  He gives wonderful insight upon the places that he has visited, his childhood experiences as well as his time spent as a musician especially when entertaining handicapped and downtrodden people.   However, as a politician, Mr.Daniels needs to view both sides of the issue before rambling off on issues that he is not well informed.  Some of his political leanings are reasonable. However, way too many of these opinions come across ignorant and one sided. Lets just say Charlie Daniels should focus on his music career first and leave the political commentary to more astute minds.	2003-10-25
US	51814776	R1Y9XMX0B23D3M	038072930X	571083724	Turbulent Souls	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Fascinating Spiritual Journey	Turbulent Souls gives a fine account of the many journeys that took place within the Dubner Family Tree.  Stephen Dubner traces his family roots which amazingly were rooted in Judaism.  Its quite interesting how both of Stephen's parents became Catholics.  In the case of Stephen's father, Sol(later Paul)it seemed as if he was rebelling against his overbearing father.  Paul's story shows you that you cannot force feed religion into a young soul trying to emerge.<br />As for Stephen's mother, Florence(later Veronica) the religious influence was fairly weak at home.  Not to mention any sort of guidance as Veronica recalls rarely spending time at home during her teen years.  Therefore, Veronica became a willing convert.<br />Very compelling is the effects this dual conversion had upon this future couples family.  In Judaism very often a period of mourning takes place and surely Paul became lost to his original family.  Amazingly Paul and Veronica seemd to become perfect Catholics to the point of almost totally denying any past affiliation with their Jewish roots.<br />Stephen's life goes through many turbulent periods.  His exposure to the Catholic religion is a lot at first.  Whereas he does not reject these teachings, over time Stephen develops other interests most notably the desire to become a musician. Like his parents, he encounters people who encourage him to explore his roots. When he finally does, Stephen becomes enamored with his family history and researches his roots to the point of exploring towns which were touched by the Holocaust.<br />In spite of the difference of opinion with his mother's own spiritual path, Stephen is able to keep this relationship positive.  Furthermore, he creates strong bonds with other family members both Catholic and Jewish.  Whereas Stephen's articles meet with feedback both good and bad, at least our hero can say he was able to evolve spiritually while touching others along the way.<br />I highly recommend this biography which interweaves the spiritual journey of a family over the course of this past century.interweaves the spiritual journey of a family over the course of this past century.	2003-10-15
US	51814776	R3TWHWYXR24LE2	0767913825	396993442	Final Accounting: Ambition, Greed and the Fall of Arthur Andersen	Books	2	30	33	N	N	Very Erratic	Final Accounting:  Ambition, Greed and the Fall of Arthur Andersen is sort of like a hamburger served at a cheap fast food restaurant.  It has plenty of bread at both ends but not much meat midway through.<br />Barbara Toffler gives a good introduction to whats it is like to interview and train for Arthur Andersen.  She gives valuable insight of the mentoring relationships as well and how things sometimes changed rapid fire for her.  In addition, it was quite interesting to note how the Audit and Consulting groups never seemd to play for the same team.<br />However, midway through the book, the reading becomes quite a chore.  Way too much repetition about the author's inability to generate sufficient revenues. Toffler does not distinguish herself as a Big Person within Arthur Andersen as she merely makes excuses that anyone reading this review could make.  The chapters on massive billing are such a bore.  This issue happens everyday at law firms.  Anyone who has every watched LA Law would know this.  The repeated obstacles that Toffler faced really could have happened anywhere.<br />All of a sudden, Toffler jumps into the Enron and MCI incidents without sufficient detail.  Why did Duncan order the paper shredding? Furthermore, the dry writing style makes it nearly impossible for an outsider to maintain their attention span.  Its like you had either work for Arthur Andersen or a similar firm to even relate.<br />The conclusion to Final Accounting is decent.  Toffler is fair in her judgement and places some blame on her own shoulders.  However, there are way too many questions left unanswered.  Overall, a better book still needs to be written on this subject that will appeal to the average worker in a large corporation.	2003-10-05
US	51814776	RACL2RZGJ874O	0873379683	701619728	Dealing With Problem Employees: A Legal Guide	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Nearly Flawless	Dealing With Problem Employees is an excellent resource for most organizations, especially for start up companies.  This fine book investigates key employment issues such as contract employees, sexual harassment, alcohol and drug abuse, developing performance appraisals, dealing with dangerous employees, interviewing, and countless legal issues. All of the above issues are discussed from a detailed point of view as numerous examples are cited illustrating the fine line between what is proper conduct and what is illegal.  Very specific examples are given how to fire someone, provide fair job references, and conduct a disciplinary hearing that motivates employees to improve. The importance of having an employee handbook is emphasized greatly. The depth is so phenomenal that there is even a section on how to fire your employment lawyer when he does you wrong.<br />There are a few questionable sections on exit interviews.  From my personal experiences, most firms blur the line between termination and exit interviews.  In other words, when someone is terminated there is one meeting on the employees' last day explaining why he is being let go and all the benefits that this person is entitled to. Maybe some higher level management personnel may have some of these extended privileges.  I realize that there are a few exceptions as the authors describe.  However, from where I stand, most terminations due to performance consist of one meeting combining all the elements combined in the termination and exit interviews.  Financial layoffs may vary.<br />Also the section of an employee being allowed to have representation in a termination meeting is slightly disjointed.  I have never encountered such a situation for myself or anyone else.  Perhaps there are a few unusual exceptions but truthfully I think the authors need to adjust their position at least a little bit.<br />Nonetheless, this is super book with outstanding legal references in every chapter.  I can certainly overlook the two small weaknesses illustrated above as the strengths are great, numerous, and in great detail.  I must emphasize that this is excellent reading for employers and even employers.  Yes, employees should be aware of the many interpersonal and legal issues their employers face.  In conclusion, a must have on all fronts.the two small weaknesses illustrated above as the strengths are great, numerous, and in great detail.  I must emphasize that this is excellent reading for employers and even employers.  Yes, employees should be aware of the many interpersonal and legal issues their employers face.  In conclusion, a must have on all fronts.	2003-09-12
US	51814776	R1K5WJ34WBTWSE	0131418084	863724504	Meeting, Mating, and Cheating: Sex, Love, and the New World of Online Dating (Financial Times Prentice Hall Books)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Not Groundbreaking But Some Good Common Sense	Meeting, Mating, and Cheating by Andrea Orr is an fairly comprehensive overview of the world of Online Dating.  There are some good interviews with people who have attempted to meet their significant others online.  Orr remains non-biased by providing both positive and negative encounters with Online Dating.<br />As detailed as the encounters are, somehow the information that Orr provides is not anything groundbreaking. The savvy dater will be cautious by looking for key flags when corresponding with a prospective mate while those with irrealistic expectations will have similar feelings and results that have encountered with other resources.  Before there was online dating, single people responded to personal ads in a variety of resources.  Those people who placed such personal ads ran up against similar issues that today's singles find in the online world. Orr does not relate to how things used to be just five or ten years ago.<br />The difference today is that Online Dating is a fashionable and convenient approach for unattached people who have regular access to a computer. Orr gives us some good research into such Online Dating Sites as EHarmony, JDate, and Match.com.  The information on EHarmony is particularly noteworthy as Orr uncovers that  site's intensive psycholgical questioning and security oriented policies which are a big help to people who genuinely are looking to meet someone meaningful.  Also interesting is the commentary as it relates to Muslim Online Dating.  It is always interesting to learn about other cultures.<br />This book is somewhat worthy based on its good research.  However, Orr could have made the effort more beneficial by pointing out how singles should continue to use the Internet to find fun activities where they can meet others. Some insight on those avenues such as Social Circles and the Blueprint would have made Orr's work  more compelling.  Unfortunately Orr chose to limit her focus just to Online Dating missing the big picture of the single scene today.<br />Therefore the overall effectiveness of Andrea Orr's work is good instead of outstanding.  Some of those may be dissapointed with my comments but the truth is the book's focus is a little too narrow.the single scene today.<br />Therefore the overall effectiveness of Andrea Orr's work is good instead of outstanding.  Some of those may be dissapointed with my comments but the truth is the book's focus is a little too narrow.	2003-09-08
US	51814776	R23GK0VR3AFER4	0060521546	43532506	The Hardy Boyz: Exist 2 Inspire	Books	5	11	17	N	N	Takes You On A Journey Through Hardyville	Exist 2 Inspire, the story of the WWE Wrestlers; The Hardy Boyz may indeed be the best wrestler biography that I have read to date.  This book is organized very well in chronological order showing what Matt and Jeff faced on their long journey to the big time in the WWE.<br />The growing up years is as poignant as I certainly can feel the Hardy's pain of losing their mother at such an early age. Matt and Jeff certainly acted out quite a bit with only their firm father around to guide them.  Nonetheless, they never indulged in the evils of alcohol and drugs showing the intestinal fortitude that they would need later on.<br />Probably my favorite part of the book was the Hardy's transition from preliminary wrestlers to big time stars and their struggles to find their place in the WWE lockeroom.  I found it very interesting how Matt and Jeff reflect upon the slow path of being accepted by The Undertaker, Bradshaw, and the other wrestlers in the lockeroom.  Especially noteworthy are the behind the scenes maneuvering regarding the many critical matches of the Hardy's career such as the Tables, Ladders, and Chairs sagas.  I especially enjoy reading the Hardy's relationships with Edge, Christian, The Dudleyz, Lita,  Austin, Triple H, Hurricane Helms, and Shannon Moore.  It's touching to read about how The Hardy's friendships with Edge, Christian, Helms, and Moore have evolved over the years.<br />Whereas the approach is quite simple, I definitely prefer this book to Mick Foley's masochistically approach to the world of wrestling.  Yes, the Hardy's do discuss their injuries.  However, the Hardy's refrain from the unnecessary gory squeamish manner that Foley utilizes in his two biographies.<br />Therefore, to distinguish this bio as the best of the WWE series, I have rated it five stars although four and a half would be more appropriate.	2003-08-31
US	51814776	RHMSXCB1CMAUD	063403832X	419947840	The U2 Reader: A Quarter Century of Commentary, Criticism, and Reviews	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Multi-Faceted	Hank Bordowitz follows up on The Creedence Clearwater Revivial saga, Bad Moon Rising, with an excellent account on U2(The U2 Reader:  A Quarter Century if Commentary, Criticism, and Reviews).  What makes this book a winner, is the many perspectives and in depth research that Bordowitz provides.  The songs and performances are analyzed from religious, political, and musical perspectives.  Its great that Bordowitz gets quotes from musical luminaries like Bruce Springsteen, Sinead O'Connor, and Billy Coorgan.<br />Some moments are spent looking into the personal sides of each band member and how their personalities caused the band to evolve over time.  The Unforgettable Fire certainly differs greatly from Pop as the band has evolved from a radical new wave band to one that seems to have their influence blend into the world today. Big time fans should pick this book up and even minor fans like myself will find that there is much merit in Bordowitz's fine research.	2003-08-31
US	51814776	R22ZCN7VPIQHFD	0743201744	457840289	The Motley Fool: You Have More Than You Think - The Foolish Guide to Personal Finance	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Common Sense Approach	It's amazing that I have owned this book for such a long time and NOT reviewed it.  What an oversight as it certainly is one of my most highly acclaimed books regardless of category.<br />Much of the information still sticks with me today.  Whereas the book is about investing your money wisely, it just does not talk about the stock market.  Most important of all, David and Tom Gardner (The Two Motley Fools) discuss how to keep more of the money you earn.  This can be done by avoiding excessive gambling and overindulgence in your State Lotteries.  Also this can be done by failing to pay yourself first as illustrated in the chapter entitled The Ten Most Common Financial Mistakes.  Gosh the example of the multiple uses of one's shirt is hilarious.<br />Although the Gardner's have their biases when discussing investment vehicles, the humor shines through as well as some common sense.  Truthfully, Mutual Funds do have their purposes for some people in some scenarios. However, the reasons against Mutual Funds are certainly noteworthy.  The approach to constantly research and adjust one's portfolio is strongly encouraged here which a big plus is.<br />Most important of all, the tone of the book is not filled with heavy jargon.  The handy glossary in the back of the book smoothes out any questions that a reader might have.  And the light hearted humorous approach makes this book FUN!  Therefore, run down to your book store and pick up this gem immediately.	2003-08-24
US	51814776	R10ZYMIZFAB3P2	0060005556	187103372	Last to Die (Jack Swyteck Novel)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Keeps You Hooked	A good novel intrigues you from start to finish.  James Grippando sucedes admireably in Last To Die by keeping his audience hooked throughout the 369 page thriller.<br />Sally Fenning has been murdered and a will has been found leaving all her money to six beneficiaries. The critical aspect is that the last one standing gets the money.  Throughout the novel there is bribery, conspiracy, and mysterious murders that keep you guessing who is behind all of this?<br />Jack Swychek, public defender tries to untangle this mess.  With the help of Theo Knight he goes on a long journey to seek justice.  It seems as if the murdering reign may be too much for Swychek as the culprit(s) seem to have everything all figured out.  However, in the end justice is served.<br />Similar to John Grisham's legal thrillers and certainly in the ballpark on a quality level.	2003-08-24
US	51814776	R2T88VYXUMU3EY	1579220266	412600628	The Irresistible Growth Enterprise: Breakthrough Gains from Unstoppable Change	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Some Good Examples, A Little Too Much Theory	The Irresistible Growth Enterprise is the second book I read by Donald Mitchell. There are certainly some very good examples given by Mitchell. The one at the beginning of the book describing how the diaper industry changed certainly is intriguing. The efforts of one company's going beyond the call of duty to secure transportation to meet a client to cultivate a business relationship is fairly captivating. Also, I especially like the emphasis given to the importance of utilizing data to measure and analyze trends.<br />However some notable downfalls of this book is the overuse of stall jargon seems a bit disconnected from many business people especially those who are not on an executive level. Is it really necessary to detail a dozen stall methods that hurt business? A few have merit but others are just not very captivating. Somehow these situations do not seem all inclusive. The style is a little bit too much like a college textbook: too much theory and not enough practical examples.<br />This book may be irresistable for a small business owner. Maybe this specific audience can relate wholeheartedly to what Donald Mitchell and Carol Coles are saying. However, for the rest of us, its more hit than miss but merely a sixty-forty split. And equates to a three-three and a half star rating.	2003-08-08
US	51814776	R3CKDDONZQUJB2	0066213746	56299083	The Committed Marriage: A Guide to Finding a Soul Mate and Building a Relationship Through Timeless Biblical Wisdom (Biblical Perspectives on Current Issues)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Inspiring	The Committed Marriage is another fine book by the Rebbetzin Esther Jungreis on finding and builing a sucessful marriage in today's world.  This book looks at life as seeing the glass as half full as opposed to half empty.<br />Many of the stories are quite inspiring particularly the one of Jackie who loved her husband even though they lost nearly all their money in the recent stock market crash.  Other counseling sessions depicting marriages in trouble certainly give a fresh perspective to the many difficulties a couple truly has.  However, Jungreis gives much sound advice and wonderful wisdom straight from the Torah.<br />It would be nice to have more information on what became of some of these troubled couples.  At times, Jungreis does spend a little bit too much time on the bickering.  It would be nice to have more information on how the couples did indeed resolve their differences. Nonetheless, there are many positive messages throughout this book that it certainly can be a worthy addition to those interested in spiritual and self help material.<br />Not as strong as The Committed Life but that book ranks as an all timer.  A very worthy companion to the aforementioned book it certainly is.	2003-07-26
US	51814776	R7EWDHBZ3MU2G	0824509811	462729177	How to Understand Islam	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Comprehensive Yet Fair	Jacques Jomier gives a good overview of Islam.  I do agree with the previous reviewer that bias is kept to a minimum.  Furthermore, Jomier discusses various aspects of Islam ranging from the history of its people, some key holidays, common customs, and comparisons with Christianity and its origins in Judaism and Christianity.  Especially interesting are the various sects within the Muslim faith.<br />Since I am not of Christian faith, the last few chapters were a bit over my head.  Nonetheless, a few key aspects of these religions did shine through and it is interesting to learn about some of the basic differences between these faiths.  Furthermore, those of Christian belief will be enlightened to the Muslim thought.<br />Certainly a good intro to Islam and its place in today's world.  One can truly see the many aspects of this growing religion.	2003-07-08
US	51814776	R305V1L2ROJ9AJ	068814196X	229867025	Toward Meaningful Life: The Wisdom of the Rebbe	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Wisdom That Fills Your Soul	A book that adds meaning throughout each chapter.  Some of the words do repeat themselves from time to time.  However, the wisdom of the Rebbe always seems to have a positive reflection with hope for a better world.  Even when dealing with death, The Rebbe reflects how the departed person's soul has risen to a higher plain.  Other inspring moments include the birth of a child, the importance of keeping healthy, and the many joys of marriage.<br />This book may not be easy to absorb if you are first learning how to be spiritual.  But give it some time and you will certainly feel fine.	2003-07-06
US	51814776	R1AIWGRI9G7FWZ	0971722900	530445216	Art of Amazement: Discover Judaism's Forgotten Spirituality	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An Interesting Perspective	Rabbi Seinfeld gives some good insight on  Jewish Spirituality in comparison to spirituality of other faiths.  One gets a pretty good feel as to the roots of the such texts as the Zohar and even Kabbalah.  Good insight into prayer and the hebrew language.<br />In some spots, the text is a little bit too deep for a layperson to understand right away.  However, there are other moments which may enable you to reread such sections.  It definitely has potential as a reference tool.	2003-06-20
US	51814776	RGVL5LDKSRFB6	0805241892	572170437	The Rebbe's Army: Inside the World of Chabad-Lubavitch	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Breaking Down The Walls	The Rebbe's Army is a very good account of Judaism today. Sue Fishkoff successfully describes Chabbad's movement to involve all Jews in the aspects of their religion. Fishkoff describes how the Chabad movement has affected many communities around the United States and to some degree abroad.<br />This book makes those of Jewish faith aware of their background and how precious the Torah is. It emphasizes that much of American Jewry is comprimised. Many of these Chabad emisssaries are doing great deeds by trying to bridge the gap between the extremely religious Jews and extremely apathetic ones. It's amazing how the Rebbe's followers aim to find shabbat dinners, mikvah's, kosher food, and sukah kits for all who desire them.<br />There are some very interesting descriptions of the different communites where these emissaries are sent. It's amazing how isolated the Jewish population is in Alaska. More amazing is the central location of this Lubavitch movement on Eastern Parkway in Brooklyn. It's really a relatively poor area with a strong African American presence.<br />Especially interesting was the portrayal of Rebbe Schnerson and the claims of certain followers that he might be the Messiah. It's interesting how this caused some feverish debate in the Jewish community on Eastern Parkway.<br />The important aspect of this Chabad movement is their willingness to go many extra miles to help Jews in need. A fine account of the state of Judaism today.	2003-06-14
US	51814776	RFHBY63ZN7RB4	0973144327	415988596	Chocolate Thunder: The Uncensored Life and Time of Darryl Dawkins	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Light Reading Not to Be Taken Seriously	Chocolate Thunder is a light hearted bio on the fast and wild times of Darryl Dawkins.  Whereas Darryl's bio is fairly comprehensive, one most surely understand who this is comming from.  Darryl certainly was not the most disciplined player on the Earth or even Lovetron.  In other words, I question some of the motives and biases of Mr. Dawkins.<br />Nonetheless, the read is very entertaining if a bit crass in spots. I love reading about his dunking exploits. Its interesting how such a wild and crazy basketball player like Darryl Dawkins eventually became a respected coach in the USBL and the IBA.  I guess Darryl Dawkins has mellowed a bit with age.<br />Nonetheless, this is strong on entertainment value.	2003-06-11
US	51814776	RHY9ON6UEE7R3	0023584505	121069050	World's Living Religions (Main Themes in European History)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Good Overview Notable Biases	Robert Hume's The World's Living Religions succedes in many ways by giving a general overview of the eleven living world religions.  For someone not familiar with the origins of Buddhism, Hinduism, or Sikism, the chapters are outlined in a very organized manner.  Some of the lesser known religions like Zoroastrianism have a little less information than the three aforementioned religions.  However, at least some factual coverage is better than nothing at all.  Good comparisons are made here and there.<br />Some of the commentary on the religions are certainly biased.  Some of the commentary on the Islam faith is certainly a bit inflammatory especially when compared to Christianity.  Yes, maybe there are some aggressive tones to the Islam people.  However, Hume needs to express them a little more diplomaticly.<br />The same holds true with Judaism.  Hume takes many things out of context from the Torah.  If Hume had researched Jewish prayer books, he would note that they refer to G-d as a loving deity not as a vengeful one.  Certainly more research would show that confession is not a part of the Jewish lifestyle because our G-d is depicted as loving master who readilly forgives us.  There is nothing wrong with going to confession.  However, this and other aspects of the Christianity do not necesarilly make it a stronger or weaker religion than Judaism or any other faith for that matter.<br />Some aspects of the foundation of Christianity are quite interesting.  However, people need to realize that the Romans not the Jews crucified Jesus.  Hume's commentary seems a bit slanted here again.<br />Again, this book gives a good overview.  However, a more neutral tone in spots would be greatly appreciated.	2003-06-04
US	51814776	R39EGVR1I6YA18	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Dramatic Rise But Oh What A Fall	John Grisham returns to fine form in The King Of Torts.  Unlike his previous novel, The Summons,The King of Torts remains consistent and captivating from start to finish.<br />The story depicts the sudden rise and even greater fall of lawyer, Clay Carter as he dabbles in Tort Law. Its interesting to view the different changes in Carter's lifestyle and personality as his firm rakes in settlement fees as well as when Carter turns from hunter to hunted. Many characters are introduced and depicted quite accurately at an appropriate level of detail.<br />Maybe not on the level of The Firm or The Chamber but certainly a return to form for Grisham.	2003-05-28
US	51814776	R1XZ8WZHYWN8YO	0060506962	362430642	Buddhism: A Concise Introduction	Books	3	3	10	N	N	Good Beginning  Shaky Afterward	Like the Beginning on Huston Smith's A Concise Introduction To Buddhism.  Smith talks about the the foundation of this nature related religion well illustrating the basic truths.  Also covered nicely are some basic beliefs of the different sects.<br />However after about page 60, its a hit and miss affair.  Not enough comparison on how Buddhism's practices vary from more prominent U.S. religions like Christianity, Islam, and Judaism. The commentary that does exist seemed to keep me on the outside.  I got the point that meditation is a key part of the Buddhist's life.  However, more of the specifics about the meditative state and its overall purpose just did not register.  This book did not explain from a lay persons point of view.  And how many pages were devoted to meditation?  Someone please explain?  Other than denying the luxuries in life, what holidays, prayer rituals, customs outside of meditation exist?<br />Maybe another book will give me a deeper explanation.  This one was only partially helpful.	2003-05-17
US	51814776	R3B67P883AKQ4Z	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Makes You Value What You Eat	A very good expose by Eric Schlosser.  Fast Food Nation gives a good history of the fast food industry demonstrating how high school drop outs with little to lose became industry monguls.  More importantly the book touches on some of the darker elements of this industry.<br />Most critical are the trecherous conditions in the meat packing industry.  How can these business owners mistreat their employees not to mention the consumer?  This illegal behavior is certainly leading to people becomming vegatarians.<br />Also, addressed are fast food managers taking advantage of their teenage employees.  These fast food employees are so badly underpaid yet profits continue to grow for McDonalds, Wendy's, and Burger King.  Can't these big conglomerates offer these workers some health benefits or bonuses?  Maybe criminal activity would be reduced by such actions.  Hopefully more organizations will take on the principles of Nevada's Conways chain.<br />Overall, a very good account of the problems that take place in the Fast Food Industry.  With the growing trend towards health issues, I will certainly grab an inexpensive meal at a more consumer friendly establishment than the traditional fast food enterprises discussed in this book.	2003-05-10
US	51814776	R21DTZ0YANUMPF	0399148787	222942872	The Arraignment (Paul Madriani Novels)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	John Grisham He's Not	My first impression of Steve Martini's writing style was certainly not a good one.  I have a pretty good opening sequence where two lawyers are gunned down gangland style, the story creeps into a boring state.  Shallow character development and poor introduction of other players in this novel cause me to wonder,&quot;What's going on here?&quot;<br />A few action scenes emerge to wake me from slumber.  The description gets a little better. An interesting betrayal than takes place.  However, the ending is about as realistic as a poor Stephen Segal movie.<br />I will consider try reading another book by Stephen Martini.  He seems to have several legal thrillers on the market.  However, The Arraignment novel did not strike my fancy in the least.	2003-05-02
US	51814776	R1C9T7UHW6WJGN	0140178430	997499946	The Primal Cheeseburger: A Generous Helping of Food History Served On a Bun	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A Little Scattered But Interesting In Spots	The Primal Cheeseburger attempts to delve into the history of basic food groups while utilizing the supposed All American Cheeseburger, Fries, and Coke meal as a guideline.  There are certainly some interesting historical notes on how meat became an integral part of certain cultures meals.  Some good discussions on the origins of bread, cheese, etc.<br />However, this book tries to cover way too much ground.  Some of the changes in the authors subject matter are introduced a bit too abruptly.  Perhaps the author could have organized this book so it flowed better and covered a few things well instead of many things haphazzardly.<br />Nonetheless, this brief history of food around the world has its moments.	2003-04-30
US	51814776	REOL6L6Z3HM6N	0711943036	620804737	The Complete Guide to the Music of the Rolling Stones	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It Has Its Purpose	This booklet published before the Rolling Stones release Bridges To Babylon serves the purpose of outling each of the Rolling Stones songs and a summary of their recordings.  A very detailed description of each track is given.  Helpful for those debating whether to purchase a particular recording.  Yes, there are some slight biases.  However, the author does not make his opinion too overbearing.  A nice pocket size booklet for Rolling Stones fans.	2003-04-20
US	51814776	R29T0OKBQQP9WS	0711943052	328557971	Eric Clapton (Complete Guide to the Music of)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	It Fits My Bill	This booklet published before Eric Clapton released Pilgrim.  It serves the purpose of outling each of Eric Clapton's songs and a summary of their recordings.  A very detailed description of each track is given. I especially enoy the descriptions of Eric's guitar styles on many of the songs. Helpful for those debating whether to purchase a particular recording.  Yes, there are some slight biases.  However, the author does not make his opinion too overbearing.  And besides most of his thoughts are pretty compatible with mine.  A nice pocket size booklet for Eric Clapton fans.	2003-04-20
US	51814776	R6UE2AQITA3M7	1576751902	152244141	Change Is Everybody's Business	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Good Ideas,  Lacking Detail	Pat McLagan's premise in her book Change Is Everybody's Business is certainly a good one.  Change does not show up overnight.  It develops long before most of us aware of it.<br />McLagan encourages all of us to embrace the new and allow sufficient input from our colleagues, employees, etc.  Her stand is a very positive one.  The questionaries are pretty good.  However, some of the examples are way too brief and non-existent towards the end of the book.  What few examples of change that are given have limited emphasis and therefore forgotten long after one has explored other reading material.<br />Since Change Is Everybody's Business is a mere 135 page book, it won't take much time to read.  However, I crave information and details that grab the rader.  McClagan falls a little(not a lot) short in this area.  This material would be more appropriate in a lecture format than as a book.  Good but not all that essential.	2003-04-19
US	51814776	R3GS3BM5JV3FY2	1576751406	801441071	Love 'em or Lose 'em: Getting Good People to Stay	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Great Resource For Retaining Key Employees	Love 'Em or Lose 'Em is an excellent resource that all employers should read to better understand the needs of their employees. The way people work is changing constantly and employers need to realize that each of their employees need to be stimulated and encouraged to do their best.<br />Beverly Kaye and Sharon Jordan-Evans organize this book in an easy to read fashion.  Yet the writing is not dry at all.  The exasmple are explained with many real world examples and even in a fun friendly manner.  Kaye and Evans encourage bosses to communicate effectively with their workers. They stress the importance of having retention meetings and getting feedback from key employees.  Also important is creating a professional but fun work environment.  Overtime may be necessary to complete key projects.  But reward employees with a festive meal or a sporting actiity.  It never hurts to mentor these key employees and to get to know their personal lives a little without infringing on their space.<br />Also key to this book is an outline illustrating how the loss of one critical employee effected the attitude of a particular department and even the company as a whole.  This recessionary economy will soon lift and many employers need to realize that layoffs and rigid policies will only restrict organizational growth.  An excellent resource on many levels.	2003-04-19
US	51814776	R2V16U9P6SLTJ8	0375507493	318684906	What Should I Do With My Life: The True Story of People Who Answered the Ultimate Question	Books	2	9	13	N	N	It Could've Been A Contender	Po Bronson's What Should I Do with My Life seemed like a promising book from reading the NY Times summary as well as the book jacket.  Unfortunately after reading through 370 pages of various hodge podge stories, my impression is one of dissappointment.<br />Po Bronson's basic idea is a good one.  However, I would definitely have preffered if Mr. Bronson gave us 20-25 focused stories providing significant detail rather than 50+ stories which leave many questions unanswered.  The initial story about one man's spiritual quest involving the Dali Lama has me wondering, how was this person contacted by the Dali Lama?  Some more background on the Dali Lama's spiritual missions would help as not everyone is so familiar with this religious figure.<br />Also, what ever happened to Jessica who left the medical profession after she was unfulfilled?  The kidney failure patient chapter also leaves the reader confused.  Claude's career change from a marine biologist is interesting but way too brief.  Why didn't our author provide a little background here instead of writing a one page chapter?<br />A few stories are good.  Tim's lawyer career from rural Kentucky to California to Atlanta is written pretty well.  The chemistry professor who became a lawyer captivated my attention as well.  Noah's quest to be a golf instructor is also interesting as is Mark's financial industry adventures.  However, many of the stories leave too many questions unanswered.  Not abysmal but certainly not good either.	2003-04-12
US	51814776	R3PLFHI1J2AVSB	1576751678	578761329	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model	Books	5	4	5	N	N	How To Run A Successful Business	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage gives an excellent account on how business succede.  The fundamental concept of this book is that companies must continue to alter their business model to the changes that happen in their respective industries.  This books is fully loaded with successful business models from many companies like Paychex, Dell, Xlinx, Iron Mountain, and Habitat For Humanity.  The details behind these success stories are fascinating.<br />The book is presented in a very easy to read fashion.  The authors use some varying font styles and blurbs that are eye catching but not overwhelming.  The approach is extremely organized most notably the example of Sybron Dental Specialties successful business model.<br />The example of providing good customer service is amplified superbly by the story behind barber Michael Cogliandro.  Its so important to value one's customers over immediate dollars in many instances as the future benefits can often increase ten fold.<br />Whether you are considering starting your own business or if you need a solid blue print on things to look for in a successful company, this book is for you.  Its an extremely informative and easy to read book that you will refer to on many occasions.	2003-04-06
US	51814776	R189SN4IP8AUJA	0972621504	64228786	Get The Ring: How to find and Keep the Right One for Life	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Worth Its Weight In Gold	Get The Ring is an excellent six CD audio collection that provides invaluable insight for singles about finding the right person for marriage.  David LeVine interviews many reliable resources within the Jewish Dating Community who provide common sense back to basics advise.  Whereas this CD is a bit more focused on the Jewish Community, persons of other faiths can certainly utilize this information.<br />The people interviewed on this CD set all have varying styles.  Rabbi Shimon Green is certainly the must humorous of the bunch.  Lawrence Kelemen certainly reflects on societal issues the most.  Excellent points on how seeking the one you love is not taught in school.  Too much of an emphasis on veneral diseases instead of how to treat a member of the opposite sex.<br />Regardless of who is speaking, excellent advise flows like a river into a stream.  Its important for single people to evaluate strengths and weaknesses carefully.  What are key deal breakers?  Also what are potential red flags?  Its very important to notice how someone treats those whom he or she has a casual relationship with like a telephone operator.<br />Also the importance of physical attraction, ethics, and how long should one date someone.  Another key point is to network when dating someone.  Getting recommendations from trustworthy people always helps.  You are oh so precious why not go the extra mile.<br />Other sections emphasize the value of being humble and acts of kindness as more important than raw chemistry.  Kindness and a humble attitude can actually create long lasting chemistry as opposed to a flash in the pan relationship where both parties never take the time to know the person.<br />I could emphasize so many other good moments of this CD for many more moments.  However the deep meaning behind the words of wisdom from these speakers is what will provide long lasting knowledge to many single people out there.  This is a must purchase for anyone in search for true love.	2003-04-06
US	51814776	R2XRDU3J8TO22X	0595165443	560230110	SunBirds: #1 Beginnings	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Animal Interactions	A. Andrew Browne's Sunbirds: #1 Beginnings may appear to be a harmless children's tale on the surface.  It is a short book and it deals with peacocks, insects, and a couple of humans.  However, these animals seem to represent something deeper than mere barnyard creatures.<br />The flies seem to represent a growing nation of anarchists who prey on the weak.  Some elements of modern day Iraq come to mind.  The Beetles seem like the planners with their computer chips that allow them to communicate with other animals.  They seem to be the more democratic nation(USA USA!!!!)that tries to warn the old guard mistrusting peacocks.  There are certainly other analogies that one can draw from this story besides the one's that I suggested.<br />Whereas this seemingly first Sunbird Series is appropriate for children from ages 9-14, there is certainly some content which will appeal to adults as well.  A good debut by teenage author A. Andrew Browne.	2003-03-27
US	51814776	R1SO4WG8JTNCSF	0765307154	81417598	The Last Jihad (Political Thrillers Series #1)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Sign O The Times	Yes, I stuck the title of the previous item that I reviewed on this recent political thriller.<br />Anyway, The Last Jihad does give some good insight into a possible future showdown with Saadam if we do not disarm him.  Heck this could even be on tommorow's headlines as we try to liberate the Iraqui citizens under his regime of terror.<br />The novel is filled with a lot of stunning action packed scenes of attempted assinations of the American President as well as other world leaders.  A compelling oil deal to unite Israel and Palestine is also a subplot.  That one is a little unrealistic.  But the role of General Aziz certainly is so similar to the feelings of the current Iraqi dictatorship.<br />Some of the scene shifts and political maneuverings are a little bit too rapid fire without enough time given to develop certain characters and how they relate to the story.  The ending is quite abrupt.  Maybe there is a sequel in the making but still a little bit more of a comprehensive conclusion is definitely requested.<br />Nonetheless this is a fairly exciting read in spite of some faulty connections.	2003-03-26
US	51814776	RHY30GD2GYR4H	0440224810	940363725	Special Delivery	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Certainly Far Fetched But  Somewhat  Enjoyable	Not necesarilly the most serious piece of fiction on the market.  But since when is fiction supposed to be serious?<br />The emotions of loneliness are deeply explored in Danielle Steele's novel Special Delivery.  And they are done quite well.  But who would figure that a party would kindle a romance between the newly widowed Amanda and a long time bachelor, Jack?  And oh what different personalities between Amanda and Jack.  The main thing they have in common is the family connection from each of their former spouses to their children and children in law.<br />Some soap opera like trials and tribulations occur between Jack and Amanda and their children that rival the stuff you might witness on One Life To Live and All My Children.  You cannot take the novel so seriously.  But somehow there are enough twists and turns to keep most audiences at least remotely intrigued.  Its short length of 229 pages makes it an amusing light read instead of a long drawn out bore.	2003-03-21
US	51814776	R1RO2QNED2RK4T	0743457676	977981634	It's Good to Be the King...Sometimes	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Regal Achievement	There are some readers out there who claim that Mick Foley's first book, Have A Nice Day, stands as the best Wrestling tell all biography.  Whereas Mick Foley gives some quality insight into today's stars, I tend to rate Jerry Lawler's Its Good To Be The King....Sometimes a bit higher as it deals with more aspects of the business from someone who is a bit more level headed.  Heck Jerry even criticizes himself soemtimes which is refreshing since so many Sports Entertainment Stars hae such big egos.<br />I was very entertained by the way the book opened up with The King and good Old JR giving a modern day commentary of Jerry Lawler's first match.  Its refreshing to see that Mr. Lawler can truly laugh at himself.<br />A good account is given of Jerry's growing up years and how he got his breaks into the Wrestling business.  One certainly learns that Jerry Lawler was a budding young artist but also lacked some discipline and focus in his teenage/young adult life.  Its very interesting to learn that Mr. Lawler did not partake in drugs or alcohol.  Sex was a totally different story and I enjoyed his candor when discussing his sons particularly wrestler Brian Christopher.<br />Mr. Lawler gives good accounts of his role as an owner, wrestler, and announcer in the world of sports entertainment.  He gives a clear perspective of the issues without delving into a countless number of matches. Whereas I would have liked to read more about his relationship with more of today's WWE stars, you at least get a clear persepctive from someone who has not as masochistical as Mick Foley.<br />Most interesting are the stories of Lawler's three wives and countless groupies.  The Stacey Carter saga was drawn out quite a bit.  Was it necessary to spell out every agonizing moment?  However, it was quite poignant to note that Lawler was really at his breaking point for a long long time after Stacey had left him.  It shows you that even Wrestlers have feelings.<br />Overall Jerry Lawler does an excellent job in discussing his life in and out of the wrestling ring.  Certainly a portrayal of a man with strenghts, weaknesses, vices, and feelings like anyone else. Quite refreshing indeed.excellent job in discussing his life in and out of the wrestling ring.  Certainly a portrayal of a man with strenghts, weaknesses, vices, and feelings like anyone else. Quite refreshing indeed.	2003-03-19
US	51814776	R346A0792BMJJ3	006093221X	461102948	Mars and Venus on a Date: A Guide for Navigating the 5 Stages of Dating to Create a Loving and Lasting Relationship	Books	4	24	30	N	N	Some Good Advise	Mars and Venus On A Date is indeed a very enriching read.  Many but not all romantic relationships do fall into John Gray's five stages of Attraction, Uncertainty, Exclusive, Intimacy, and Marriage.  The attraction levels of Physical, Emotional, Intellectual, and Spiritual are explained quite well from both the Venus and Mars perspective.<br />Common arguments are discussed in great detail.  Never try to solve a woman's problem and never offer unsolicated advice to a man.  Also to either sex, just apologize without making excuses.  Admit your faults and the other party will be more forgiving.<br />I don't necesarilly agree with Gray's assessment that a woman should not reach over to open the car door for a man early in the dating process.  Truthfully its a minor issue and its not worth the emphasis that it was given.<br />Good emphasis on what men and women need in a partner and their lives.  Men like to feel that what they have to offer is needed.  Its Ok to use men to a point.  Women don't want to have to do it all.  They get depressed if they realize that they have to do everything themselves.<br />Some good analysis and common sense.  Overall it gets my seal of approval.	2003-03-15
US	51814776	R122E76LI18Z7H	1572434651	382443552	Bobby the Brain: Wrestling's Bad Boy Tells All	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Could Have Easily Included Some More Stories	Bobby Heenan undoubtedly has been a big part of the Wrestling business. In this biography, Heenan clearly illustrates his role as making others look good.  Also demonstrated is his ability to protect the business.<br />At this point, even the remote fans of wrestling must realize that much of this form of Sports Entertainment is an illusion.  Nonethelss, Heenan tried to keep that awe of mystery by never appearing in public with the ever popular Hulk Hogan.  It is finally realized that Hogan and Heenan were indeed friends.  Interesting enough Heenan describes long time Heenan Family member Rick Rude as insecure and out for himself.<br />Definitely some interesting anecdotes about many wrestlers.  Somehow more detail is definitely wanted.  The background on the Wrestlemania 3 match of Hulk vs Andre was good.  But what about the Wrestlemania 2 match Hogan vs Bundy.  Not much is said about Paul Orondorf.  Interesting how Heenan disliked Haystacks Calhoun so much.  Some more insight would have been desired here as well.  The Gorilla Monsoon stories are quite touching.  But so many other wrestlers were brushed over quite quickly.<br />Lets hope Bobby Heenan recovers completely from his bout with cancer and maybe adds an upgrade to this good but somewhat incomplete account of his life in wrestling.	2003-03-06
US	51814776	R2HGGECMUYD7KY	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Lacking Some Meat In The Middle	Based upon reading countless John Grisham novels in the past, I figured that this one would at least be good if not great. The summary on the jacket seemed quite intriguing.<br />However, after a fairly descriptive opening that leads Ray and Forest to meet at their late father's home, the story disintegrates into boredom. All you hear about is how irresponsible Forest is with little information on how he turned out that way as a child. Forest was supposedly the big time football hero in high school. It would have been nice if there was a flashback detailing where he fell off the wagon and turned into a seedy young adult. Little is told about Ray's youth as well. As the main star of this novel, you would think there would be a more comprehensive background on Ray who seems to be written about in every scene.<br />Minimal information is also given about any of the other characters. Its all about resolving this boring Will and the money that seems to be stashed in the late Father's residence. The ending is not so bad. It portrays the implications of sibling rivalries in families. However, the amount of pointless detail between start and finish of this novel borders between unnecessary and excruciating.<br />I guess every author has his misstep. Whereas the book isn't an outright disaster, it certainly falls well short of his best work.	2003-03-06
US	51814776	R2S5P6POFWGD2L	0440221315	21466307	The Gift	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Extremely Touching	I decided to explore the literary work of Danielle Steele by choosing this short novel from my local library. Some may find it a bit mushy but I definitely was hooked all the way through.<br />It was almost magical how the pain the Whittaker's loss of their daughter was mended by Maribeth's arrival in their world. It shows you that children no matter what they get themselves into can somehow still display innocent and trusting for one another. Love truly can conquer all as Tommy certainly looks past the problems of Maribeth and sees her emergence as a calming presence to the loss of his sister and the near destruction of his family. Slowly but surely and certainly happilly, Tommy, Liz and John manage to come together again.<br />I guess one never knows where the missing puzzle to someone's happiness lies. Sometimes I guess one has to believe in magic and Danielle Steele certainly affirms this.	2003-02-26
US	51814776	R1TX5SQI0KZ36N	0823084329	582357110	Sheryl Crow: No Fool to This Game	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Some Good Insight But  Certain Aspects Are Missing	Don't get me wrong.  I am a fan of Sheryl Crow's music.  Furthermore, I admire her perserverance to make it in the music business.  However, Richard Buskin's unauthorized biography No Fool To This Game seems only able to tell part of the story.  In addition, the writing style is not easy to read with too much hearsay from VH1 episodes.<br />Richard Buskin does give some good details of Crow's growing up years and her musical influences.  Buskin seems to portray her as your average teen with typical mood swings. Her later experiences in rock n roll bands are documented but somehow nothing really excites the listener.  Probably due to the fact that Buskin could not get any documentation from Sheryl herself.  The scattered information from her peers just does not seem to cut it.<br />The details behind her working with Michael Jackson and Don Henley are pretty interesting.  Its amazing how the gloved one is portrayed as so aloof to his fellow band mates.  Nonetheless, Sheryl's networking abilities are quite inspiring.<br />Also of interest are her several romantic adventures which unfortunately did not lead to true love.  At least she and Eric Clapton are good friends. Whereas these insights do help me relate even more to the words and the attitude to Sheryl Crow's songs, somehow I am left with the feeling that there is more information behind the scenes that Mr. Buskin could not give us.  We need more than just quotes for a good biography.<br />The information behind the key songs on Sheryl's recordings are pretty interesting.  However the meandering writing style is certainly distracting.<br />The Coda chapter stands strong as Buskin gives some good quotes on Sheryl which give insight to her true personality.  A good glossary section and a nice photo arrangment as well.<br />Some good insight on Sheryl Crow yes indeed.  However, I am hopeful that someone else will come out with a more detailed account of this very talented singer.	2003-02-20
US	51814776	RHF6DI9VBD54P	0879307269	910967339	Rock and Roll Doctor-Lowell George: Guitarist, Songwriter, and Founder of Little Feat	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Good Focus But Some Aspects Need Development	I am a big time Little Feat fan.  And I am very happy that Mark Brend took the time to communicate the genius of Lowell George and the talented and badly underatted band known as Little Feat.  The details surrounding the music and stylings of each song is incredibly detailed.  The bio of Lowell George is fairly interesting as well.<br />However, I would have preferred some more ellaborate quotes from the living band members of Little Feat if not Lowell George himself.  I have met the bandmembers and they seem like ery regular guys.  I am sure a few ellaborate quotes from Paul Barrere or Billy Payne on what it was like working with Lowell would go a long way to giving this wonderful band some needed publicity as well as showing the world the true legend Lowell George was.<br />In addition, I would have liked to know more about the subject matter and the influences of Lowell's lyrics.  What did inspire him to write such gems as Strawberry Flats or Long Distance Love?  I will admit Mark Brand gives a good account of the tensions within a rock n roll band that is trying to find its place in the music world.  Also, its good that Brand mentions that Little Feat's fan base included such musical heavyweights as the Rolling Stones and Led Zeppelin.<br />I do thank you very much Mark Brand for putting out a book on Lowell George.  However, there are some ommissions which make the rating somewhere between three and a half and four stars.	2003-02-15
US	51814776	RY2KTY3CC2QRN	037550883X	564633047	I May Be Wrong but I Doubt It	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Some Good Points But Not Too Original	From reading I May Be Wrong But I Doubt It, I can appreciate how Charles Barkley has progressed since his humble beginnings as a youth in rural Alabama.  His mother and grandmother guided Charles away from trouble while growing up.  As it turned out, Charles was able to establish himself as a premiere NBA player and an insightful sports analyst after he retired. Throughout his time in the limelight, Charles Barkley has always been none to bring some compelling insight and humor to the world of sports and the game of life.<br />The insights about race would be good if they did not dominate the book so much.  Charles does talk about the lack of executive level jobs in sports for Blacks and Hispanics as well as TV sitcoms.  What Charles Barkley does leave out is how this compares to other industries throughout the world?  Also what about other minorities besides Blacks and Hispanics?<br />The role of how America's colleges failure to prepare student athletes for the working world is discussed well.  However, this is not a new topic.  The graduation rates have been declining greatly over the past decade.  But how do you convince colleges notto [exploit] these potential basketball stars for their own short term needs?  Barkley makes a good suggestion of organizing a minor league system for basketball.  Many ball players who are talented but obviously are not college bound will in an enironment where they can focus on just basketball to see if they can hone their craft.  Maybe this good suggestion can keep a watchful eye on the so many colleges bending the rules to admit basketball stars who really are not students.<br />The stories about such former stars as Ted Williams, Bill Russell, Julius Erving, and Magic Johnson are certainly though provoking.  The role model chapter has some good points that parents and teachers should be held most accountable.  However, athletes need to realize that young people emulate their every move and need to act like responsible adults rather than self centered jerks that many are.<br />Overall, Charles Barkely has a refreshing style.  But outside of a few valid points, there is not much information that hasn't been heard before.her than self centered jerks that many are.<br />Overall, Charles Barkely has a refreshing style.  But outside of a few valid points, there is not much information that hasn't been heard before.	2003-02-15
US	51814776	R1JNKCAPBWQWOJ	0316279722	135747598	The Punch: One Night, Two Lives, and the Fight That Changed Basketball Forever	Books	3	2	5	N	N	An Incident That Just Doesn't Go Away	The Punch is a book that deals with an unfortunate sports incident and how the media blows up the incident. In 1977 I was a high school student and noted how the game of basketball was changing into more of a contact sport. Each team seemed to have a big brute of a power forward whose main role was to be the intimidator and protect the star players. Fights were occuring a bit more frequently in games starting with the Darryl Dawkins/Maurice Lucas match in the previous years NBA championship. Fines and suspensions were few and far between.<br />Commissioner Lary O'Brien then decided he was going to impose more severe penalties. This came to a head when on the fateful night of 12/9/77, Kermit Washington lost his composure in a basketball game. When Rudy Tomjanovich rushed over to break up a fight between Washington and Kevin Kunnert, he was decked by a mammoth punch by the heavilly agitated Washington. This incident led to the longest suspension of a player in the history of the league.<br />Furthermore, this incident seems to be constantly played out whenever something similar happens in the world of the NBA. These days there seems to be more and more viscious fights in the NBA and intimdiation seems to dominate the sport. Just look at today's Portland Trailblazers with Rasheed Wallace intimidating officials. Not too mention the bench incident between the New York Knicks and the Miami Heat during a playoff game. And what about the Golden State Warrior Player who was looking for an opposing player/team and looking to start a fight long after the game? Rumor has it this player was bringing his buddies from the neighborhood for a gang war.<br />The media would like to make it out that this Punch changed basketball. In some ways it has led to the game being much more physical. However the temperment of Tomjanovich and even Washington is so much tamer than many of the players who are in the game today.<br />In spite of this incident's effect on the game, there is way too much time given to this tragic event. Feinstein's book is repetitive indeed. Some of the effects on both mens lives afterwards are described quite well. However was it all necessary?<br />I guess where I am intrigued by Feinstein's insight, I wonder if this book tries to stir the pot more or does it try to give closure to this unfortunate incident? Tomjanovich and Washington would like this incident to just go away. People make mistakes in life. Its time the media respected the lives of Washington and Tomjanovich and just stopped the video tape of this incident. A better solution would be to monitor violence in sports more closely.much time given to this tragic event. Feinstein's book is repetitive indeed. Some of the effects on both mens lives afterwards are described quite well. However was it all necessary? <br />I guess where I am intrigued by Feinstein's insight, I wonder if this book tries to stir the pot more or does it try to give closure to this unfortunate incident? Tomjanovich and Washington would like this incident to just go away. People make mistakes in life. Its time the media respected the lives of Washington and Tomjanovich and just stopped the video tape of this incident. A better solution would be to monitor violence in sports more closely.	2003-02-08
US	51814776	R1HYW69AI4FWSU	0195157133	286760963	What Everyone Needs to Know about Islam	Books	3	5	14	N	N	Good General Overview But Some Areas Lack Development	John Esposito's What Everyone Needs To Know About Islam gives a good general idea of the concepts of Islam. Esposito outlines quite well the Five Pillars of Islam  Also explained well are the prayer rituals and the significance of Mecca are also quite interesting as well as the relationship between Islam and other religions.<br />Other comments Esposito makes are a bit inaccurate and somewhat slanted. Where in the world does Esposito get off explaining how marriage between first cousins are common in Islam as well as Judaism? He offers no such supporting statistics or proof that either group practices this so often. In some communities this may have taken place because there were no other suitable parties for a specific young lady. However, this is so much more the exception than the rule at least within the Jewish faith. Why doesn't Esposito comment about Chrisitans marrying their cousins? There is a movie out entitled Divorce Italian Style which deals with an Italian Christian man that has a romantic interest with his cousin.  Truthfully Esposito's statement is a bit prejudiced.<br />Also the commentary of slavery is kind of wasted. In this modern age what is the point of even discussing something so unpleasant like this. Esposito seems to indicate that Islam is more sophisticated than Judaism or Christianity because it defines such a barbaric relationship. I think Espositio needs to get in touch with the modern world as slavery is non-existent in most places. Truthfully Espositio could have spent more time discussing Muslim Holidays and more of the festive attributes of Islam than delving into slavery.<br />Also the description of Hamas' response to the Hebron incident is badly phrased. In my opinion, this Dr. Goldstein was not running a suicide mission and merely acted as a deranged criminal. This certainly does not justify all of the Hamas suicide bomber missions that this Islamic military group has started. The two incidents are way different and Esposito should not even compare such actions. Both actions are indeed terrible but most definitely not an excuse for the excessive actions of Hamas and other terrorist Islamic groups. Esposito's comments on this unfortunate incident does not make him look favorable outside of the Muslim world.<br />Esposito does detail that the Islamic people have some varying sects that are more extreme and even more militant than the majority. Unfortuantely this may give some people a prejudiced idea about Islam. Whereas I may have some justifiable concerns about these extreme fundamentalists(its interesting how there have been similar violent tribes all thru Islam history), the general belief system of Islam is quite deep and powerful just like Christianity or Judaism. And this book is certainly a fine introduction to Islam.ld not even compare such actions. Both actions are indeed terrible but most definitely not an excuse for the excessive actions of Hamas and other terrorist Islamic groups. Esposito's comments on this unfortunate incident does not make him look favorable outside of the Muslim world.<br />Esposito does detail that the Islamic people have some varying sects that are more extreme and even more militant than the majority. Unfortuantely this may give some people a prejudiced idea about Islam. Whereas I may have some justifiable concerns about these extreme fundamentalists(its interesting how there have been similar violent tribes all thru Islam history), the general belief system of Islam is quite deep and powerful just like Christianity or Judaism. And this book is certainly a fine introduction to Islam.	2003-02-07
US	51814776	R3GBPJSNY5ENMX	0743456904	9113921	Hollywood Hulk Hogan (World Wrestling Entertainment)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Light Reading But Some  Half Truths Indeed	The bio of wrestler Hulk Hogan was undoubtedly a good easy read.  The Hulkster definitely presents himself in an overly positive light where he could do no wrong and revolutionized the industry from many aspects.  I doubt that it was totally Hulk's idea to form the NWO as well as that he brought the Undertaker into the WWE.  Nonetheless, the stories about Andre The Giant were indeed both heartfelt and amusing.  Andre never weighed more than 500 lbs.  Certainly not the 700 Hogan exaggerates.<br />The book is fairly well-balanced between Hulk's appearances in movies, wrestling, childhood stories, wife stories, intimate details about some wrestlers, and publicity stunts.  He admits his own vulnerability with helecopters and his general wrestling abilities.  His charisma certainly overshadowed his general ability to perform high risk maneuvers in the ring.<br />In conclusion, its good to get Hulk Hogan's perspective on the wrestling scene.  He undoubtedly was a major force in revolutionizing this form of sports entertainment and his views are duly noted.  However there are numerous anecdotes where Hogan runs off at the mouth too much.  However, its all worth an amusing chuckle especially when the reader can distinguish between fact and fiction.	2003-02-01
US	51814776	R2K52IBZW34SU0	0066212553	809249431	Speed Dating: The Smarter, Faster Way to Lasting Love	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Comprehensive Dating Guide	Speed Dating gives valuable information about locating your soul mate without waiting precious time. Many factors go into finding that special mate. Authors Yaacov and Sue Deyo advise inner personal qualities as more important than immediate physical chemistry.<br /> In addition, they stress the importance of having goals for yourself as well as a relationship. It is emphasized that no person is perfect. However, the authors advise that each person should determine which traits in a mate are extremely necesary and others are not necessary. The illustrations that support these points are excellent.<br />This is an excellent book to re-read to further teach yourself good dating habits. It is a little basic in spots, but most open minded people can learn a great deal of Speed Dating.	2002-09-15
US	51814776	REBT69U2SGMBT	0452282519	907879759	Free to Succeed: Designing the Life You Want in Today's Free Agent Economy	Books	4	7	7	N	N	In Touch With Reality	Free to Succeed describes accurately the ever changing work force that is effecting career opportunities.  It emphasizes individuals pursuing several rotating career opportunties as opposed to doing the corporate dance as layoffs are becomming more apparent in Big Blue(IBM) and other large corporations.<br />This book gives some good exercises to give the reader a clear idea of his or her free agent strenghts and weakenesses.  Some people have strong imaginations but just lack the nerve.  Others may be gamblers with the lack of a strong purpose.  To sum it up, this book is a good tool for self evaluation.<br />The glossary is pretty good and some good resources for web surfers.  Some pretty good case studies even if some of them are a bit too repetitive.  Its certainly worth a read.	2002-09-06
US	51814776	R3DBZB7BA86U4G	0452266033	585343605	Use Both Sides of Your Brain: New Mind-Mapping Techniques, Third Edition (Plume)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	A Good General Overview	Tony Buzan's Use Both Sides of Your Brain is of the short and sweet variety.  Good points are made about mind mapping and about building memory skills.  Its sad that the memory principles are not emphasized enough in schools and the author capitalizes on that point.<br />However some of the problems associated with reading comprehension are not developed enough here.  The author should have clearly defined about backskipping and rapid eye movement as associated to performing well on tests. Furthermore, the author should further document how people with learning disabilites can overcome their problems by utilizing reading techniques.  Maybe it will show up in a later edition.<br />The good does outweigh the drawbacks.  Lets hope Tony Buzan can refine his craft as this is a subjeuct that can use further attention.	2002-07-15
US	51814776	R3GEDAA89OYE1X	1580620604	737141375	Beyond Hitler's Grasp: The Heroic Rescue of Bulgaria's Jews	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Fascinating Account Of A Dark Moment In History	Beyond Hitler's Grasp is a fine account of Bulgaria's position during the Holocaust. Michael Bar Zohar gives a good summary of the events that led to Bulgaria's controversial alliance with Hitler's Germany. However, there were certainly enough humanitarians in Bulgaria to spare the Jews of the fate that their bretheren in other countries suffered.<br />What is certainly captivating is King Boris' role in trying to appease all sides. He want Bulgaria to recapture the land it lost to Turkey therefore leading to the temporary alliance with Germany. However, there were still some common relations with the Russians that kept Bulgaria from fully participating in Word War II on a military basis.<br /> King Boris never had any problem with the Jews. The King had many Jewish associates. Furthermore, many of the Jews blended into Bulgarian society without calling attention to themselves except when being persecuted by Belev and his cronies. Even though Boris was described as weak willed, somehow his non-confrontational atitude held Hitler at bay to save the lives of 50,000 Jews. Its too bad he did not extend himself for the Jews of Thrace and Macedonia.<br />Nonetheless, its a shame and a travesty that more of an attempt to thwart Hitler's reign of terror did not occur. Countries like Poland and France could have learned something from Bulgaria's unique relationship with its mainland Jews.<br /> This is an easy to read but detailed account of this critical period of World History. I would highly recommend this Bulgarian perspective as a comprehensive overview of the events of the Holocaust.	2002-06-26
US	51814776	R2SYRDVOXHVCI4	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Fun Yet A Bit Ridiculous	Its nice that John Grisham takes a lighter tone for Skipping Christmas. No lawyers are involved in this tale. However, there are some interesting accounts  on how some people indulge in the holidays. Its funny that when Luther and Nora don't decorate their home for Christmas, the first thing a neighbor questions, \\"Are They Jewish?\\" This makes me wonder, How well would a Jew or even a non-Christian fit in on the Hemlock block?<br />It's pretty comical how Luther side-steps all the neighbors, police officers, co-workers, charity causes regarding Christmas since Blair, his daughter, is supposedly out of the country for a year. However, when Blair suprisingly makes her return with a newly found fiancee, all of a sudden Luther and Nora revive their holiday cheer.  This part of the story is pretty annoying and unlikely though not impossible.<br />Maybe Skipping Christmas is a bit silly in spots. However, Grisham gives a fine account on how the holiday maddness is a bit exaggerated. I could definitely see a made for Television movie for this farce-like novel.	2002-06-26
US	51814776	ROQFZI1O4JMB3	0824604318	174445645	From Central Park to Sinai: How I Found My Jewish Soul	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Inspiration That Massages Your Soul	Roy Neuberger's journey to find himself is extremely inspiring. It goes to show you that a man can have all the money in the world,but without a some spiritual guidance, what is he really living for? In some ways his wealthy background was a great hinderance to him. His parents did not give Roy all the proper attention and guidance as the Ethical Cultural Schools merely confused his thinking.<br />Finally after 31 years, a colleague woke him up to the fact that he is a Jew whether he realizes it or not. Mr. Neuberger finally realized that he was not giving his own heritage a chance. Finally he asked to visit a synagogue with a friend and it so happened the Rebbetzin Jungeris was speaking there that night. At that point a chain reaction fo events triggered in Mr. Neuberger's brain that this was answer he was looking for.<br />The rest of the book consists of many powerful miracles based on prayer and faith in G_d. Although many of the stories are repeated from Esther Jungeris' The Committed Life, it is still a pleasure read about people turning their lives around by believing the Power of the Jewish Religion. Judaism encourages its followers to be strong and persist towards acheiving happiness and overcoming obstacles.<br />This book will make you believe in miracles even if you are not Jewish. An inspiration to us all.	2002-06-20
US	51814776	R3W095AAM6QJ7D	0312282567	198717350	Rule the Freakin' Markets: How to Profit in Any Market, Bull or Bear	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Good Common Sense	Rule The Freakin' Markets is indeed a useful tool for those who aspire to get ahead in the stock market.  Michael Parness's approach is level headed with good general advice. Parness emphasizes the psychological factors in trading well.<br />Parness gives a brief introduction about his life struggles.  By being homeless and losing all his money to a blind faith broker, Parness tries to give back to the community by selling common sense as opposed to selling you on a get rich quick scheme like Wade Cook has a reputation for.  There are minimal plugs for his TrendFund site and Parness does mention other websites that are useful therefore given a more non-biased tone.<br />Some stock market technique is discussed, but not in great depth.  The most important point is never buying a stock if it gaps up before 10 am.  Usually stocks fall back after that point.  Also, Parness warns us of the real objectives of the analysts as well as the OTC &quot;garbage can&quot; stocks.  Good general information is given on shorting stocks as well.  Options are covered too lightly.<br />The language and tone of the book is easy to read but a bit too casual in spots.  None the less there are some good one liners that are humorous and catchy.<br />There is not a lot of groundbreaking information in Parness's book.  However, most readers will pick up a few worthy techniques and lot of common sense and market psychology.	2002-06-12
US	51814776	R2PJIC9NO3QFL0	1401033148	448346249	Inexquisite Eye	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Disjointed and Difficult To Follow	D.B. Smith's The Inexquisite Eye is a long drawn out saga of lawyer Elissa Laughlin's inability to cope with career and family pressures. There are some mildly interesting descriptions on Elissa's struggles with her long-term boyfriend Warren, as well as her dysfunctional family members and some oddball senior law partners. I can truly relate to Elissa's struggles to achieve career and personal satisfaction by striving for ethics in a world filled with questionable role models.<br />However, this basic theme is truly compromised by the disjointed manner in which the novel is organized. Mere moments are illustrated in painful detail. Yet the author jumps forward a few months here, several weeks there, and even a year or two down the road to attempt to make a point about Ellisa's many trials and tribulations. D.B. Smith should have been more careful to describe key points of Elissa's story. It was difficult to determine when Elissa and Warren really broke up, who initiated it, and what was the point of the excessive dialogue.<br />And the non-stop arguing is oh so annoying. Every little meaningless thing gets raked over the coals in gory detail. This stuff is more painful than an episode of All My Children. And what was the point of all this acrimony between Elissa and Warren, Elissa and her family, Warren and his mother, Elissa with her partners (although that was mildly interesting). Mr. Smith wants to portray Elissa as a crusader for an honest world. In the end she merely comes across as an emotionally disturbed person with a bad attitude.<br />In addition, almost all of the characters are truly unlikable. Nasty cracks and back biting at family parties are certainly very unpleasant. It is unfortunate how dysfunctional parents breed disturbed children.  Both Ellisa and Warren clearly fit that description.<br />If soap opera like acrimony is your cup of tea, go out and read this book at once. However, for those who like an exciting story with creative surprises, choose a more established writer like John Grisham, Stephen King, or Michael Crichton.a more established writer like John Grisham, Stephen King, or Michael Crichton.	2002-06-10
US	51814776	R2XELMWQQAHM74	0840397453	390883397	Get to the Point: How to Say What You Mean and Get What You Want	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very Helpful...While Getting To The Point	Most Americans either fear public speaking or do not know how to properly give a presentation.  Get To The Point gives many helpful insights to the many aspects of presenting your points in the best light.<br />Very often, the average audience member comes away with 10% of the content of a speech. Get To The Point helps the presentator maximize that 10% and maybe even icnrease it.  Authors Berg and Gillman emphasize the importance of getting to know your aduience from many points of view.  Know your relationship to the audience and the aduience within itself.  From there, a good presentor will use clear concise jargon and possibly throw a few key buzzwords for effect.  The importance of a conservative dress code as well as a confident animated matter are also emphasized.<br />Many other key details are explored such as the types of questioners at a presentation such as the fillibuster.  Gillman and Berg detail well how to deal with this type of personality as well as how to handle yourself when interrupted.  The conservative approach is very level headed.<br />Other topics such as meetings, job interviews, and introducing speakers are discussed in detail.  Special effects in presentations are also discussed.  Because this book was written before the invention of PowerPoint, many fo the visual aid examples are a bit out of date.  However, the bottom line point illustrating that the speaker makes the presentation rather than the effects, still overrides any technology advances taht Get To The Point does not incorporate.<br />To summarize: Get To The Point meets its mark and will help out budding speakings greatly.	2002-05-05
US	51814776	R3SVB9RKHL4GKB	0060393009	59636792	Foley Is Good: And the Real World Is Faker Than Wrestling	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Limited Focus	This sequel to Have A Nice Day is truly a mixed affair. Probably the strength of this follow up is behind the scenes commentary on what it is like to be a Professional Wrestler. Very interesting are Mick's \\"on stage\\" angles with The Rock and Hunter Hearst Helmsley. Mick gives us great detail on how his Royal Rumble 2000 Match elevated both himself and Triple H. Its interesting to read about his private feud with The Rock although it would have been nice to know The Rock's point of view during this misunderstanding that festered inside Mick Foley for two years. Mick gives us both the fantasy and reality points of view.  Also amusing are Foley's cracks about Test, Al Snow, and The Mean Street Posse.  The chair swinging incident regarding the Posse is pretty intriguing from a wrestling fan's point of view.<br />Also interesting is Mick Foley's relationship with his family.  Mick indeed seems like a gentle caring family man outside the ring even if in many ways Mick is a bit of kid himself.<br />What weakens the book is the the general purpose. Was it really necessary to write a book that details the last two years of a wrestling career? What is one supposed to gather from this? Mick also gives us very little about his role as a commissioner other than saying that in his humble opinion his work with Edge and Christian was legendary. Don't get me wrong, those skits were good. However, Mick could have ellaborated a little more.<br />Also, the last chapter on the PTC and Mr. Bozell is a total bore. Mick Foley needs to realize that the WWF can be questionable viewing to young children especially with the racey storylines. I am not saying that children should not watch the WWF. They just need the proepr guidance from their parents. Mick Foley seems to greatly ignore this very obvious point. Comparing the violent scenes to Hansel and Gretel and other child-like stories is inaccurate. Hansel and Gretel is certainly not as graphic and obvious with its violence. The WWF has become extremely violent and Mick Foley's physical, mental, and emotional condition certainly proves it.<br />None the less, Foley is Good is indeed a \\"Good\\" book not a \\"Great\\" one. Foley's imagery is certainly quite vivid in many spots. However, his point of view is defiitely from a man who has taken a few too many chair shots.me extremely violent and Mick Foley's physical, mental, and emotional condition certainly proves it.<br />None the less, Foley is Good is indeed a \\"Good\\" book not a \\"Great\\" one. Foley's imagery is certainly quite vivid in many spots. However, his point of view is defiitely from a man who has taken a few too many chair shots.	2002-04-28
US	51814776	RG8NHFJGZLPMY	0684823896	177905177	Being Jewish	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Some Good Insight	Being Jewish gives a comprehensive account of the spiritual and cultural practices of Judaism.  Similar in content to Anita Diamant's Living A Jewish Life, Being Jewish discusses the many life cycle events of Judaism as well as the holidays and common practices of prayer, giving tzedakah, keeping kosher, etc..<br />An advantage of Being Jewish is the more specific examples of how the different denominations practice some of the customs of Judaism.  The book has a very modern appeal and that is a plus.<br />However, the author does tend to cite a few times too many that there are people who vary the practice of Judaism to their own needs.  To paraphrase the author, there are six million jews and six million interpretations.  Whereas some Jews alter their beleifs somewhat, I would say its a bit extreme to say that Judaism can be catered to the individual.  Goldman eventually does focus in on the core foundations of each custom, holiday, etc.<br />And its the history behind each ceremony that makes this book stand tall.  Goldman really gives a very good account on the history of the Brith noting the rise and the fall of its prominence in today's society.  He also gives a nice history of the first Bat Mitzvah and how this trend has caught the attention of the Jewish Community.  Some good summaries from the Bible are included to illustrate such points of marriage and keeping kosher.  Even issues of vegatarianism are discussed as a part of the stories of Noah and Adam.<br />Some good summaries exists at the end of each chapter which make for easy learning. One can utilize the Bibliography as a guide for suggested readings even if it is not too extensive.<br />A good guide for those intersted in pursuing Judaism further.  It provides a good hsitorical point of view while adding a modern touch.	2002-04-13
US	51814776	R6BEKKLZJAYN8	1556111576	617431292	Why I Am a Reform Jew	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Fine Account of Reform Judaism	This is a fine account of a man's journey to become a reform Rabbi.  Good detail is provided on the purpose of Reform Judaism.  The history of the movement is described as well. The personal experiences of Daniel as a little boy are described a little better than when he becomes an adult.  You would think that the author would talk a little bit more about his wife's influences.  Also, the author could have talked a bit more about his broher who committed suicide.  Before the suicide, I do not recall if the author even mentions anything of significance about Michael.  Did I miss something? None the less some good points are made which relate to how Reform Judaism deals closely with many modern issues.  Worth a look.	2002-04-06
US	51814776	R2VB9B2HOFFF2H	0060930853	506258840	The Committed Life: Principles for Good Living from Our Timeless Past	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Flowing With Inspiration That Will Warm Your Soul	The Committed Life is a truly memorable book that will touch your soul. There are many stories which detail of faith in G_d and human courage. Rebbetzin Esther Jungreis has experienced so much in her life most particularly enduring the evils of a Nazi Concentration Camp as a little girl. The Rebbetzin has gathered so much strength from her peers in that camp, that she has dedicated her life to inspiring others.<br />There are so many inspiring accounts where Rebbetzin Esther Jungreis has saved others who need some spiritual guidance. Even a chance encounter with a passenger on a flight back to New York from Portland resulted in the passenger re-examining his own lifestyle and being more serious about Judaism. And what about her influence on such individuals plagued by the demons of drug addiction and cults? A truly phenomenal account.<br />The Rebbetzin strives to encourage individuals to look to invite G_d into their lives. Throughout The Committed Life, The Rebbetzin illustrates in striking detail the many ways she has encouraged those with varying personal problems to apply loving kindness from the Torah, Talmud, and other good books as opposed to re-acting with malice. There are times when the Rebbetzin's tone may appear a bit aggressive. However, based upon her many experiences in a concentration camp and witnessing other draining events, one can at the very least understand that she has seen quite a lot.<br />The Rebbetzin details her marriage to her husband, Rabbi Meshulem Jungreis with extreme warmth and passion. It's clear that she valued his loving kindness and inspiration to all no matter what the circumstances. The story of the Rabbi's relationship with one particularly congregation member, David stands out extremely. Grit, faith, and determination stand in the forefront in this account in David's quest to receive the Rabbi's blessing under the most extreme circumstances. This section alone will tug at your heart and will have you desiring oh so much more.<br />Inspiring, captivating, and filled with passion. I can relate to many of the Rebbetzin's thoughts and feelings and look forward to reading and experiencing more of her spiritual soul.re.<br />Inspiring, captivating, and filled with passion. I can relate to many of the Rebbetzin's thoughts and feelings and look forward to reading and experiencing more of her spiritual soul.	2002-03-27
US	51814776	R8USRGQQG1KLH	0449911837	201246355	Davita's Harp	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Oh What A Time It Was!	Davita's Harp is one intriguing book.  The description of the tensions that I liana Davita and her family endured during the late 1930's-early 1940's in New York and the entire Fascism vs. Communism backdrop is indeed very vivid.  Davita's Harp illustrates what might have happened if Hitler was successful most notably with the comments of one of Iliana's classmates during recess one day.  Potok weaves a very creative story that is both intriguing and believable.<br />Its especially interesting how Iliana Davita gradually identifies more and more with her Jewish roots over the course of the book in spite of criticism from her mother and some of her Jewish peers.  It goes to show you that there are so many people who get so self-absorbed in their own way of life that they are impatient when a new person enters their world.  In the Jewish religion, it is sometimes these people who can cause Judaism the greatest amount of harm.  Over the course of time Jews have been so persecuted that we need to reach out to those who want to know more about our way of life.  It's nice that Potok illustrates this point without being obvious about it.<br />Some of the conversation about communism is a little vague.  It's obvious that Davita's parents are part of a Communist Group.  However some of Jakob Daw's stories are a little odd for those mainstream individuals who never delved into the Socialist World.  Some of the visions that Davita has are a bid odd and can be a bit annoying.  However, one must realize that Davita's home life was far different from the norm during this turmoilish period.  At least that is how I would attribute her daydreaming.<br />Nonetheless, Davita's Harp is full of vivid imagery of a controversial time in world history.  Potok's many insights will hopefully be used as a tool for all nations to be respectful to one another.	2002-03-14
US	51814776	R222FJQ3DINHW3	1584650389	683233998	Suddenly Jewish: Jews Raised as Gentiles Discover Their Jewish Roots (Brandeis Series in American Jewish History, Culture, and Life)	Books	2	13	19	N	N	The Writing Style Hampers The Effectiveness	I'll dare to be different with my opinion on Suddenly Jewish. I agree that its good that the accounts of these one hundred sixty cases were documented to show the effects of the long-term persecution of the Jews. Whether it was the Holocaust or the Spanish Inquision, the long terms effects on many Jews from a psychological point of view runs very deep. A few stories, particularly the one about the priest discovering his Jewish roots does stand out.<br />However, as much as I applaud documentation that details the persecution and torment the Jews have faced, the manner in which the stories just shoot out at you is annoying and difficult to comprehend and follow. I guess I would rather prefer it if Barbara Kessel documented more clearly and sucinctly a few of the accounts of these Suddenly Jewish people rather than providing brief snipets of 160 cases. The stories practically run into one another and it is difficult to interpret where one starts and one ends.<br /> After a while many of the cases sound identical as there is little that is unique. Three of the sections deal mostly with the Holocaust. Don't get me wrong, we should never forget the Holocaust, but it would have been nice to have a little more depth about some of these people.  How about a section discussing some issues that involve the Middle East? With Israel being surrounded by so many Arab nations, you wonder if there are some Jews in those countries who were raised gentile or otherwise.<br /> Also, how about a section that illustrates cases of intermarriage which have nothing to do with a political event whre the children are brought up in a gentile home but later are curious as to the Jewish side of their family tree. Kessel most definitely should have organized the chapters of this book better to outline more situations of Gentile children discovering their Jewish roots.<br />A few important reminders of the path the Jews have travelled. However, the organization and the documentary style of writing hurts this book's appeal.ng hurts this book's appeal.	2002-02-27
US	51814776	R2974SHAZZPXEG	067154134X	946617312	Messengers of God: Biblical Portraits and Legends	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Some Vivid Imagery	Elie Weisel has a very descriptive style.  He is able to describe the many possible interpretations of the characteristics of Adam, Cain, Abel, Isaac, Joseph, Jacob, Esau, Moses, and Job.  Especially interesting is the description of how G-d created Eve.  Why from the ribs as opposed to the eyes, head, neck, etc..  Interesting stuff and I won't spoil it by giving you readers the analogy.  The snake's role in Eve leading Adam astray is dealt with from many interesting points of view.  The punishment of Cain is quite unique according to Weisel's theory.<br />Anyway, the parables are a little hard to interpret and some of the stories ramble a bit without comming to a point.  But there are many captivating parts and the beautiful imagery makes me rate this four stars.	2002-02-20
US	51814776	R1U968E4A3TNOM	1879045907	917005740	The Shabbat Seder (Art of Jewish Living) (English and Hebrew Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Easy Read With Refreshing Insight	A structured summary on the rituals of the Shabbat experience.  In between this organized approach is some fresh perspective given from modern families and single people.  A vareity of issues involving the Candle Lighting, Prayers, Meal, Kiddush, and other little touches are explored in a descriptive yet easy to read manner. Some warm and inviting pictures help guide you through this guide quite rapidly.<br />Plenty of prayers are included  in Hebrew, English Phonetics of Hebrew Words, and English. The chapters are filled in Frequently Asked Questions and appropriate answers. A great motivating tool for people trying to explore this important part of Judaism as each of the questions are answered in a manner encouraging the continued observance of Shabbat.	2002-02-14
US	51814776	R3O45WPY1U4N8I	0807036110	92531670	Seasons of Our Joy: A Modern Guide to the Jewish Holidays	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Good Ideas But A Dry Writing Style	I have an earlier version of this book which was copyrighted in 1982.  There is plenty of good information about the more common Jewish holidays with some mentions of more minor ones.  Each chapter is pretty well structured with a summary of each holiday's origins, preapration steps, prayers and customs on the day, new approaches, and food affiliated with each special day.<br />Although there is some good information within the chapters, it is not the easiest read as the author could summarize the basic points of each holiday more succintly.  Also, the author's writing style has a very dry style with little style to cause the reader to be overly intrigued.  A few unusual customs were learned here and there. However, the Omer Period discussion leaves some questions. The recipes described are a nice light touch to an otherwise matter of beleif account of the Jewish Holidays.  The gloassary and bibliographies are pretty good.<br />Again, the goal of the Season Of Our Joy was to explain the meaning behind the Jewish Holidays.  Jews who have an extensive foundation of their reglion may be able to get more out of Waskow's analysis.  But those individuals who are trying to renew their interest in Judiasm may be a bit lost.	2002-02-11
US	51814776	R3DH1UYIM1KDGI	0062720082	921242991	The Jewish Holidays	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Good Details On The Holidays	The Jewish Holidays by Michael Strassfeld gives a fairly comprehensive summary of the major Jewish Holidays.  It describes the rituals for kashering a kitchen and preparing for Passover,the varying interpretations during the Omer Period.  Much of the meanings behind the holidays are explained as well as some history.  Changes over the course of time are explained as well as variations between different Jewish Communities.  A nice read which is effective if not overly exciting.	2002-02-08
US	51814776	R1TQ2AYK022A71	1564144488	309776294	Getting Interviews (Five O'Clock Club Series)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good But Read Targeting Your Job Market First	Kate Wendleton displays a positive pro-active attitude in Getting Interviews for Job Hunters.  She gives many positive tips.  One should always look to target all available opportunities.  In addition, one should expect that a good job search takes a lot of time.<br />She emphasizes the points of doing a good search.  Always ask for referrals as that will keep many possibilities on the fire.  You will know you are doing well when you hear some of the same names come up constantly in your search.  This is a small world.<br />Like the section that sums up the types of Executive Search Firms.  Good analysis of retainer firm vs. contingency.<br />The sample cover letters and thank you notes are a mixed bag though.  Many of them are way too long.  In the age of a tight job market that has the time to read a long winded cover letter.  Madge Wrigley's letter in addition to being to long and winding (eight paragraphs, my goodness) also has too much of a chummy tone.  Most bosses can be a little too suspicious of someone who gathers too much information on them and couples that with ramblings.  I say write a short three to four paragraph letter and come right to the point.<br />Also the idea that someone could have 6-10 opportunities at one time thru networking seems pretty unlikely.  Three to five seems possible but who knows.  Maybe the down economy has me a bit pessimistic.<br />Anyway, there is certainly some good information here.  None the less choose Kate's Targeting Your Job Market first as that has a better glossary and fun exercises as well.	2002-01-28
US	51814776	R2BB7KELIMBVZ7	0062734431	303906828	Living a Jewish Life	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Truly A Gem	Several years ago I purchased this book.  In my quest to learn more about my heritage I started reading this book again.  Upon just finishing it right now, I can recommend it wholeheartedly.<br />There are oh so many great qualities about this book.  Probably the greatest aspect is the way it is organized.  Main sections consist of an Introduction, Home, Observance, Community, and Life Cycle.  Each of these main sections discuss critical aspects of the Jewish religion sucha s keeping Kosher, the Holidays, Shabbat, Jewish Calendar, Jewish Schooling, Bar Mitzvah, Wedding, and other milestone activities.  Furthermore, at the end of each chapter, the authors Anita Diamant and Howard Cooper list further readings for both adults and children.  This is extremely helpful for anyone who wants to learn more about a specific aspect of Judiasm whether it be the origins of Purim, Jewish Cookbooks, or more informaiton about the different approaches of Judiasm(Conservatism, Reform).<br />The Sabbath(Shabbat) section is especially helpful as many of the prayers and the meanings are explained.  Those who do not have a strong command of Hebrew need not fear.  The explanations here are to the point and provide enough information to leave you to want to find out more.  The sections on the holidays are also very informative.<br />The Community aspect of Judiasm is detailed in a very pleasing way.  In the middle of the book, there is a comprehensive listing of service organizations which can be of great assistance to a wide audience.<br />I could sing the praises of Living A Jewish Life for several more paragraphs.  The bottomline is that it covers so many topics in an easy to read manner that anyone with even the slightest interest in the Jewish relgion should check out this fabulous book.	2002-01-13
US	51814776	R3J6T0K30QBAOK	063400560X	215888854	The Doors Anthology	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Excellent Songbook	The Hal Leonard Company really did an excellent job in putting together this songbook.  Most if not all of the music in this book is letter accurate.  Many of the songs have the solos written out so a keyboard player does not have to work very hard.  Light My Fire is a rare exception but I doubt any source would ellaborate on the four minute instrumental solo.<br />What's interesting here is that songs from the Other Voices LP are included in this songbook.  Other Voices is the first Doors record that was released after Jim Morrison died.  It features the vocals of Robbie Kreiger and Ray Manzarek.  Too bad that record is so difficult to find.  Also included are stories about the Doors music/recording history as well as an interview with Robbie Krieger.<br />Overall an excellent resource for musicians who like the Doors.	2002-01-04
US	51814776	R2YXWJJCU99SHU	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Change Is Good	John Grisham takes a different approach with A Painted House and it certainly works.  Instead of writing another legal thriller, Grisham paints the scene of a farmer family.  The descriptions of the Chandlers, The Hill People, The Mexicans, and other Arkansas townspeople are quite vivid.  The underlying story lines are fairly captivating as it goes to show that people from differing backgrounds do not get along so easily.<br />A Painted House is more focused as all the side stories seem to mesh together without an extra dose of excess.  A fairly light read that braodens Grisham's horizons a bit more.	2002-01-03
US	51814776	R3S5LY5JBVUCN0	0942710819	260915035	Great Connections: Small Talk and Networking for Businesspeople	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Teaches You How To Converse	Many people are not able to get what they want out of their careers and even their personal lives because they do not the finer points of initiating a conversation and keeping it flowing.  Great Connections by Anne Barber and Lynne Waymon provides much constructive insight into the world of establishing small talk and networking.<br />Barber and Waymon illustrate the value of making positive connections by asking questions that go beyond a simple yes or no. Techniques to remember someone's name is also explored. Also, they both emphasize the positives of maintaining good body language.  Etiquette is reviewed as well in a detailed yet simplified matter.  The authors go over the proper way of introducing people whether its your mom to your supervisor or a man to a woman.<br />The authors emphasize the aspects of bringing an agenda(plan) to your networking conversations.  Focus is the key here and the idea is to emphasize to those looking for a favor to also try to offer a favor as well.<br />The use of exercises is indeed quite helpful.  In addition, the glossary of other helpful books is quite easy on the eyes.  Great Connections is a nice short but sweet package.	2002-01-03
US	51814776	R3OXMM6CY1G40N	091576590X	227498842	When Your Corporate Umbrella Begins to Leak: A Handbook for White Collar Re-Employment	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Outdated And Inappropriate For These Times	Although there are a few good common sense tips, this book is pretty outdated.  Written in 1991, the information is quite passe as the internet and automation have controlled the job scene.  Temporary workers are a big part of the job landscape and Paul Davis does  nothing to recognize this fact.<br />What really drags this book down is Mr. Davis's comments about the format of a resume.  He actually hates the bulleted format which is so easy on the yes of most employers.  He even encourages prospective job hunters to enclose a photo of themselves in order to &quot;show the face behind the resume&quot;.  I'm sorry, Paul, but that personal touch was never used during any era.<br />Paul Davis sure does not give us a basis for that reasoning nor does he give us a basis for listing one's age and maritial status.  These days there such a thing as age discrimination.<br />Military Service is certainly unnecesary unless one applies for a military job or if such service makes up the bulk of one's livelihood.  Hobbies are also for the most part extraneous.  The bottom line is Work Experience and Education.<br />Some of the &quot;hidden job&quot;  research techniques are fairly well stated even if they do not take into account modern tools like the internet.  Some of the suggestions regarding what to do about when you are laid off have some merit.  Even the budgeting steps are worth a glance.  However, the resume and even the cover letter styles are so out of touch and inappropriate in language and style that a one star rating is waht this book deserves.	2001-12-27
US	51814776	RPD0MYU5ZB93B	1564144496	349490484	Targeting the Job You Want (Five O'Clock Club Series)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Good Resource	A very good resource for these crazy times of frequent job changes.  Kate Wendleton is right on the money when she states that most people will have up to fifteen jobs and five careers in their working lives.<br />Many of the exercises are quite helpful.  The seven stories analysis can tune one in on some hidden talents.  The Special Interests List can certainly clue one in and where a person can direct his or her job search.  Satisfiers/Disasitifers, 40 Year Vision, and Ideal Scene Worksheets if nothing else can put a frustrated job seeker in a good mood and re-invigorate some badly needed focus.<br />The sections on job targeting are indeed helpful.  This sections works with geographic issues as well as industry and job function matters as well.  Company attributes and personal attributes are a detailed level are discussed quite well here.<br />The research sections and internet listings cap off a wonderful resource for anyone in the midst of a career change.  Kate Wendleton even sells her services in an appropriate way without an excessive amount of hype.  I will most certainly read through Wendleton's other books, Interviewing And Salary Negotiation as well as Getting Interviews.  Kate is most certainly in tune with todays ever changing employment market.	2001-12-27
US	51814776	R2XNQ6OR7J2935	0809297876	121802904	Why Should Extroverts Make All the Money?: Networking Made Easy for the Introvert	Books	3	24	27	N	N	Some Good Exercises But A Little Loss Of Focus	Why Should Extroverts Make All The Money certainly has its merits.  The exercises specifically the one describing problematic bosses are quite helpful.  Balzano's basic analysis of introverts as the thinkers behind the organization is pretty accurate.  The basic solution to getting introverts to open up is to discover your passion and go about it full blast.<br />Balzano should discuss more how introverts can overcome their fear of approaching others.  Merely comparing it to a less desireable situation does not stand alone as the answer.<br />Also Balzano needs to realize that there are many people who are part extrovert and part introvert.  On the 30 question test to discover if you are an introvert, I answered about 12 as an introvert.  So what does that make me?  More description is need there.<br />The analysis on the different types of extroverts and introverts are basically good.  However, there are people who do fall in between these categories.  A little more detail would ahve been nice.<br />At times the book loses focus on whether it wants to analyze introverts networking practices or just the general human nature. Each person has their own unique ways and Balzano does pidgeon hole the situation a bit too much.  None the less, there are some good ideas.	2001-12-19
US	51814776	RCTQ5U5WKLZ31	0765759500	887774441	Teshuvah: A Guide for the Newly Observant Jew	Books	4	30	33	N	N	Intriguing	Some very contradictions indeed.  Judiasm does welcome those who want to be more observant.  However the laws of the sabbath, dress, social relations, and keeping kosher are very strict.<br />The All or Nothing and Where To Start Chapters are very helpful. Rabbi Steinsaltz has a patient tone that one should not make the jump too vigorously to become observant.  Start with lighting sabbath candles and maybe wearing tefilin is a good suggestion.<br />This book contains some very good information on some of the laws and their meanings.  The kashering process is especially captivating. Some of the contradicitions are a bit confusing for those whom are not too informed.  However, many can strike up interesting discussions.  The glossary is quite helpful.  A nice book for those who are considering taking the step to becomming more observant jews.	2001-12-19
US	51814776	R10483S3DM5NKT	0399143998	520752026	Light My Fire: My Life With the Doors	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Some Good Stories	I enjoy reading stories about Rock N Roll Stars.  And Ray Manazarek's account of The Doors is certainly captivating.  He is a bit harsh on John Densmore but sometimes life in a rock n roll band can bring about adversity.  I enjoyed the story about the real happenings on the Ed Sullivan Show.  Also it was nice hearing how surprised Ray was when he received his royalty check for Light My Fire.  What about the night Jim Morrison was too stoned to play.  The guys went on without him and Ray and Robbie somewhat covered for Jimbo on vocals.  Also John was in the spotlight and seemed quite happy.  The Buick advertisement stories were quite compelling as well.<br />Ray definitely has a vivid writing style.  There are times when he appears creative and other moments(like the beginning fo the book)when Ray sounds like he's tripping on something.  Would have also liked to learn more about some of the songs outside of some Dionysan ravings.  None the less, Light My Fire is an very good book that most Doors fans will appreciate.	2001-11-12
US	51814776	R3IU8WHCEQT6XY	0471409464	798279687	Getting Started in Options, 4th Edition	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	A Good Overview For Many Audiences	Getting Started In Options is a very helpful Investment Guide.  Michael Thomsett spends a good deal of time discussing Puts, Calls, and Advanced Strategies by analyzing the strengths and weaknesses of each scenario.  This neutral tone is certainly a breath of fresh air when comapred to the many books out there by snake oil salesman types whose prime objective is to get you to attend one of their Thousand Dollar Sessions.  This book gives many easy to read examples whereas even an advanced beginner can comprehend Bull and Butterfly Spreads.  On top of all that, the glossary at the end of the book gives a clear definition of the key terms in the Options World.<br />The only minor issue is that Thomsett should emphasize that  a Written Covered Call that expires worthless can significantly add to the percentage gain on a specific transaction.  Otherwise, Thomsett gives his audience many good ideas for maximizing one's profit in the Options Market.  An excellent reference book that will yield many returns.	2001-10-30
US	51814776	RMDFIFWU2ND1I	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Very Compelling	Its nice to read novels by up and comming novelists.  This one certainly is quite captivating.  Kathy Hepinstall surely knows how to interweave many twists and turns in the story.  Its interesting how Boone and Persley influence each other.  The description of Simon Jetser's manipulating ways surely sets the tone throughout the book.  Meg surely has her weaknesses as a person but definitely surprises the reader in the end.  A good account on how children can be trapped in a bad situation.  This story certainly gets my seal of approval.	2001-09-24
US	51814776	RC0TERT4XT3LN	078686074X	940807346	Crossroads: The Life and Music of Eric Clapton	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Very Comprehensive	This biography is indeed very informative.  The details on Eric's life are very complete.  One can see how Eric's small stature and limited coordination stunted his confidence at the beginning of his music career.  In the Yardbirds, Cream, and Blind Faith, Eric was content just to be a part of the band.  I especially enjoyed Delaney Bramlett's influence on Eric's vocal development.  And of course the Layla stories are always a joy to read.  The feelings behind many of Eric's signature songs are a joy to read over and over again.<br />The only slight drawback in this book is the fact that the author discounts the There's One In Every Crowd CD.  Truthfully, I find it an underatted gem.  Otherwise, Michael Schumacher does an excellent job.	2001-09-08
US	51814776	R1NG173ZOWN5WG	1558507884	581781086	The Metropolitan New York Jobbank, 1998 (Jobbank Series)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Useful Reference	I have frequently purchased this book as updated issues are released.  It categorizes the companies out there in appropriate categories and by number of employees.  You also get website addresses as well.  Occasionally the infroamtion becomes a bit outdated but in these ever so rapidly changing times, its hard to blame the publisher.  The section on Temporary/Permanent Agenices is quite extensive but probably needs to be organized a little better.  None the less, this is a good series that can help most job seekers.	2001-09-01
US	51814776	RQ3P5KV2WEAFF	0823084205	857571115	Southern Rockers: The Roots and Legacy of Southern Rock	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very Effective	Marley Brant's Southern Rockers is a pleasant easy to read bio of some of the great and lesser known bands hailing down below the Mason/Dixon Line.  Brant really takes you inside the souls of many of these great recording artists.  Much of the information on the Allman Brothers is similar to that of Midnight Riders.  However, its refreshing to reading the inside scoop on Lynyrd Skynyrd, Marshall Tucker Band,  Charlie Daniels Band, and so many fo the other Southern Rockers. One can certainly understand the plusses and minuses of being a musician and the common bonds these recording acts faced.  The passages on Ronnie Van Zandt and Lynyrd Skynyrd are extremely captivating.  Ronnie certainly had a strong will.  The descriptions on the playing styles of Toy and Tommy Caldwell are very informative especially to budding musicians.<br />A few mistakes here and there but the whole package is a good one.  Anyone appreciating the great music of this region should give this one a read.  You will not be dissappointed.	2001-09-01
US	51814776	R3CESXIN45KB1G	0735605815	29921630	Building Applications with Microsoft Outlook 2000	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Some Valuable Information...Presentation Needs Work	This Reference Guide is packed with information to help a budding programming get started in Customizing Outlook.  The enclosed disc provides some good examples support this reference material well.  However, the structure of the book is a little off base.  Instead of feeding a bunch of detail at the beginning, Mr. Byrne should start off with a simpler approach.  In addition, he should have used a more structured approach and used Bolder or Capitalized Font for critical areas of emphasis.  Furthermore, it would have been nice to give at least a basic run through on Visual Basic Programming.<br />None the less after some trial and error, a savvy user should be able to at least get started on some Outlook Customizations.  This reference guide certainly increases in value if the budding programming who uses this book is taking a class where a professor can explain the details behind the book.  3 1/2 stars seems about right.	2001-09-01
US	51814776	RPVFS00L23WDI	1573225789	991280088	The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	3	15	21	N	Y	The Entire Story Is Not Told	By reading the summary on the back cover, The Color of Water sounds quite intriguing. However, when you start reading the book there are numerous questions which any reader canr aise and certainly plenty of biases especially on the part of the mother, Ruth. It certainly was nice that James McBride decided to trace his family roots. The prespective that he and his mother give to their growing up years are certainly similar. Both James and his mother sure had struggles growing up but truthfully I think James perservered a lot more than his Mom. James seemed to realize the positive values of the Jewish faith whereas his mom merely was annoyed by trying to keep Kosher and the struggles of the Jewish people. Her guilt shows up at many junctures of this book. What both Jews and Blacks both need to realize from this book is the similarities that each of them have in their cultures. Besides some annoying anti-semitism from the mother(Ruth), she still was obviously reluctant about going into greater detail about her experiences. Her neurotic behavior about always being on the move is completely abnormal. Her crazed desire to only date black men knowing that it would annoy her parents is also quite spiteful. And knowing times were hard, was it necessary to have twelve children and make it difficult on all of them? And what great things did she do to truly help her children succede? None of that is discussed here at all. This book is a decent learning tool as to what is both right and wrong in society today. Those reading it should view it with an open mind and avoid some of the biases and prejudices that takes place. It shows you what children of mixed race parents have to experience. Fortuantely, the author seems to have grown up into a fairly level headed person and is able to distinguish the beauty of Judiasm as well as being an African American. However, he should attribute his place in the wrold to his perserverance rather than the influence from his mother which is certainly pretty questionable.ainly pretty questionable.	2001-08-25
US	51814776	R1CG9MJ0FNJSIG	0471176494	654569866	The Computer Consultant's Guide: Real-Life Strategies for Building a Successful Consulting Career	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Truly A Mixed Bag	This book certainly has its pluses and minuses.  The fact that it was published in 1997 makes it somewhat obsolete in some critical areas.  None the less there is some solid advice given by the author.<br />The first chapter defiens the many types of consultants fairly well.  However, it does fail to mention much about the Networking Engineer, whcih is a critical part of today's busienss environment.  The Meet The Consultants section is fairly user friendly.  Earning potential is key but again you must interpret this in terms of 1997 dollars which is more inflated now.<br />Also critical discussions regarding health insurance and marketing are explored here. Some good advice is given here at the beginning. A little bit overdone in other spots as a person exploring the industry will become overwhelmed. So many of these aspects are situational.  The brokering part is presented in such a dry format that its hard to read after 30-40 pages.<br />The glossary might be of help for those who want to explore more information.  However, a new version is definitely in order to bring this book current.	2001-08-17
US	51814776	R26UPRE1WBL7OD	0812932293	973312533	Losing My Virginity: How I've Survived, Had Fun, and Made a Fortune Doing Business My Way	Books	1	7	28	N	N	Surely Not A Fun Read	Just because someone is successful, does not make him a good writer. As intriguing as the title may be, this bio was just plain boring.  The chronological format does not work as Branson just rambles and rambles.  My gosh, he hardly talks about his wife at all and then out of the blue he interjects oh I married her.  I forgot his wife's name out of shear boredom.  Anyway, after reading 90 pages I returned this puppy to the library. Boooooring!	2001-08-17
US	51814776	R13W92SEJPH85	0449911683	968250752	My Name Is Asher Lev	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another Interesting Account of Ethnic Relations	Chaim Potok's offers some intriguing commentary on Religious issues in his novel, My Name Is Asher Lev. In spite of growing up in an environment where Torah Study is important, Asher discovers that the World of Art has its own merit. It's amazing how Asher has such a stubborn attitude in pursuing his dream even to the point where he disturbs his father and other key religious leaders in his community. It is not too clear how he developed such a self serving attitude. Maybe Asher was rebelling against his father for always traveling for the Rebee and not spending enough time at home with his family. Not to mention the lack of quality friendships in his school years.<br />Whereas the story jumps quickly through Asher's growing up years, there are many captivating moments throughout the young life of this artistic prodigy. The taunts from his classmates sure had an effect on young Asher. He sure was a curious little boy discovering Art Museums at such an early age. Not to mention discovering the world outside of his Chassidic Jewish Roots. Most Chassidim live in a fairly segregated world. Their interacting with the Christian Community is limited if not non-existent. Asher's bold actions raise a lot of questions about where he stands in the world today. Does he wonder about the Christian World? Does he realize the predicament he puts his mother while trying to seek attention from his father? And does he feel connected to his Judaism? Child rearing issues are pretty prominent as well. Chaim Potok gives us another gem in this wonderful novel as he brings critical issues to light.	2001-07-30
US	51814776	R7SU3JV2UPUOT	0449209105	145381532	The Promise	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Good Follow Up To The Chosen	The Promise is a very compelling sequel to The Chosen.  The novel follows up nicely on the lives of Reuven and Danny as they pursue their respective careers.  Reuven is trying to become an ordained Rabbi and faces many obstacles from Rabbi Klavman along the way.  The Conservative Hasidim values conflict greatly with the somewhat more Modern Orthodox ways.  Whereas the reader is hooked on how this issue will be resolved, there is too much detail spent on quotes from the Talmud.  These ramblings will cause less religious Jews and many of those from other faiths to lose interest in these parts.<br />The struggles that Danny faces when trying to heal Michael, a troubled cousin of Rachel, who at first is Reuven's girlfriend and later develops an interest in Danny.  Danny's controversial method causes some critical ramifications in this story.  Whereas this story offers some compelling twists and turns, it seems odd that Rachel switches her romantic interests from Reuven to Danny.  There seems to be little resistance/hurt feelings from Reuven which is a bit odd.  Did I miss something here?<br />Overall this book is very good as it discusses some important issues that occur within religious sects.  Whereas parts of it will lose the attention of some audiences, it does continue to send an important message.  Religious Groups should be more accepting from within in order for them to thrive.	2001-06-11
US	51814776	R22CVOPPAH3CJ4	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good Writing Style But Lacks Credibility	John Grisham has a very captivating style of writing.  His  strength is weaving several sub plots into an effective story. In The Street Lawyer,Grisham captivates his audience by detailing Michael Brocks trials and tribulations which stem from being held hostage by a crazed homeless man.  Its quite unbelievable all the changes Brock goes through from a 75% pay cut to a divorce from his wife to being on opposite sides from his colleagues.  The fact that these and many other changes occur within 32 days is incredibly impratical yet the reading is fun as Grisham certainly has a way with words.  What is annoying though is when Grisham preches his political views on the state of the homeless.  He needs to understand that many of the homeless &quot;Choose&quot; to live that way.  He should have been neutral when writing this book.  None the less it is an entertaining read.	2001-06-09
US	51814776	RXJC13VEVPR74	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Intriguing But Not Too Realistic	For the most part, I enjoy the literary style of John Grisham.  He interweaves many interesting sub plots throughout his novels and this one is certainly no exception. The contrast between the 14th Street Legal Advocacy Groups and Sweeney are as opposite as night and day. In the case of The Street Lawyer, the plot unfolds in an easy to read style with consuming drama at many corners.  Who would have expected that when Michael Brock &quot;borrowed&quot; the controversial file that he would be involved in an automobile accident which shaped this story.<br />Whereas the writing style is very engaging, realisticly the story suffers.  I can understand Michael Brock having some new ideas about serving the public based upon being held hostage for a day.  However, to change careers from one extreme to the other at the rate of a 75% pay cut seems highly unlikely. Some of his sympathy towards the homeless particularly the family who perished in the car is a bit overdone.  It is sad that they had to die that way due to negligence of the big Real Estate monguls.  However, Grisham quickly characterizes the Burton family and most other homeless as completely the fault of normal society and our governments uncaring ways.  This is simply not so in many cases.  There are a good deal of homeless people who choose that way of life and who do not want handouts.  Others are a pirahaha on society who should be behind bars or certainly in an institution.  There are definitely some who just need a break and some of those will not admit it.  This last category I personally feel sorry for the most.  However, Grisham tends to put all homeless people before the good law abiding citizens and in many(not all) instances that is overdone.<br />Coupled with Grisham's overly liberal philosophies, the ending of this book is quite ridiculous.  All of a sudden the Sweeney firm is going to have a conscience after being so brazen in its aattitude towards the poor.  The fact that all these events involving this case plus Michael's divorce, move, and involvement with a new profession and a new relationship within thirty two days is really pushing the extreme button.  Good fiction is usually based on some realism.  The strong lack of that quality is this novel drops the feeling here to certainly quite entertaining but not very believable.	2001-06-01
US	51814776	R1MQLNA65QELLD	0449213447	370928266	The Chosen	Books	5	144	149	N	N	A Classic In Every Sense	This novel is suited for just about anybody regardless of religion or race.  Those who are Jewish will relate a little easier but those of other faiths can apply the various relationships that occur in this book to their own lives.<br />The story is primarilly about two boys, Reuven and Danny who meet one day in a softball game.  Danny is a Hassidic Jew and Reuven is merely Orthodox.  Danny's initial impression is one of disdain towards Reuven as he is unable to relate to people who are not on his religious level at first impression.  An accident on the ball field brings them together and eventually they begin a friendship.  It grows deeper when both their fathers are drawn into each others worlds.  It is indeed very interesting how each father raises his son so diffrently.<br />The backdrops of the hospital, World War II, the surrender of the Nazis, The Zionist Movement, and the eventual statehood of Israel effect  the two worlds of Danny and Reuven.  There is a period of time when the Zionist movement causes Danny and Reuven to put their friendship on hold.  However, in time they return to nurture each other.<br />This is not a quick read by any means as anyone with a soul with be enamored by the details of this fine novel.  Practically each page offers descriptive information about critical steps that Danny and Reuven take in their critical years to discovering themselves.  Even both fathers learn something in the end.  This is a story which will have you thinking and analyzing many many aspects of the lives of Danny and Reuven and I sincerely hope more teenagers and college students read this book and develop a greater acceptance for peers who may be a little different from themselves.	2001-05-26
US	51814776	RY91XCJ37JU7S	0060393297	115507970	If They Only Knew	Books	4	2	4	N	N	People Aren't Always What They Appear To Be	Sometimes someone who is strong on the outside may have several weaknesses on the inside.  From growing up in a dysfunctional home, Chyna was clearly affected.  None the less her perserverance paid off in the end as she is a top flight superstar in the WWF.  Some people may classify her as a bully but those individuals are only looking at half the story.  Her actions toward Matthew Broderick were not so terrible.  Sometimes those Hollywood snooty actors think they are bigger than the &quot;regular&quot; people in the world.<br />I like the personal approach Chyna uses where she inserts quotes from Chris Jericho, Hunter Hearst Helmsley, and Mick Foley.  The style is very down to earth.  Yes, maybe she is bitter in spots but from where she's been, Chyna has gone pretty far.  I don't know waht the issue some people have with spelling mistakes. Truthfully, I think they are reading from the wrong book. I would have liked to hear a little more in depth about her character development within the WWF and how she developed friendships but in general this autobio touches the heart.	2001-05-16
US	51814776	R2S97R6OLDP8X3	0671036548	434975681	Grand Central Winter: Stories from the Street	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Intriguing	An interesting account of the world of the homeless.  This bio goes to show you that a few wrong steps and you too could be out on the streets.  It sure is not pretty either.  Lee Stringer gives a good account of how he found himself in this unfortunate predicament.  The stories sound very real if a bit disjointed.  It would have been nice if Stringer detailed how he quit his drug habit and was able to find shelter in Mamaroneck.  Also, his off and on residence at the Street News does alter his perspective somewhat.  However, these stories particularly the one about the reverend trying to bilk funds for his real estate business is quite captivating.  Well worth a read as it goes quite fast.	2001-05-09
US	51814776	R3DTUIWPJ38D5K	0471393142	706276575	CNBC 24/7 Trading : Around the Clock, Around the World	Books	2	8	11	N	Y	Misleading	Whereas this book definitely has its good points, the title is quite misleading.  As a matter of fact its focus is quite limited mostly to foriegn markets and evaluating these investments combined with trends within the many international markets.  On a general level this is discussed fairly well but the details are explained in a matter where it is assumed that you have taken a good number of economics classes.  In addition, the different chapters seem to touch back to the same point that when investing overseas you have to look at not only the stock market but the state of affairs within the country both ethically and economically.  You must be a good follower of the currency markets as well.  This is not easy for most investors to understand on an in depth basis which is needed to trade overseas.<br />What is also annoying besides the constant redundancy of this book, is the matter in which the author sites references and website addresses for more information.  The author must have included at least fifty if not a hundred sites that support each single example.  What would have helped the overall presentation of this book, if the author included a list of helpful web sites to locate key information at the end of the book rather than interspersed within his blah blah blah commentary.<br />There is some useful information in this book and one who likes to explore new web sites might find more value here.  However CNBC could have made this book reach a wider audience by organizing this book in a more easy to read manner.  Therefore a 2 1/2 star rating fits the bill.	2001-05-04
US	51814776	RWT0S7QLBCQDP	1888670304	825763776	How to Be Irresistible to the Opposite Sex: The Art of Dating, Mating, Long Term Relating	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Light Hearted Fun	Some of these one star reviewers are extremely clsoe minded.  The purpose of this book is to open people up to how to be more successful in relating to the opposite sex.  The lists are fun and make this book easy to read.  The advice is pretty sound without dwelling on psycho babble. Susan's book signings and tours promoting her work are just as beneficial in person.  She is indeed a warm caring person.  Overall, this makes a nice reference to look back on over and over again!	2001-04-20
US	51814776	R30E766CN9TLWV	0786866845	728258902	Ice Bound: A Doctor's Incredible Battle for Survival at the South Pole	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Leaves You Wanting Some More	The subject matter of the book really intrigued me.  The fact that it was Number #1 on the Best Seller List told me it was a worthy buy.  Whereas I admire Jeri Neilsen's courage and stamina for enduring her many ordeals, this memoir comes up short in several respects.  Somehow I would have liked to read a little bit more about Antartica.  How do people deal with such abomidably cold weather.  How do these people keep up with the food supply?  More detail on how heat is preserved on the inside. You just some vague thoughts in this area how the ehat is regulated so people can walk around in normal layers on the inside.  Heck, there is reference that at some parties, some people were wearing shorts.<br />What was nice is the way Jeri Neilsen described the sense of community within her little world by the Pole.  On many occasions Jeri perservered well beyond the call of duty to think of others and serve her role as doctor. Her comrades were very supportive as well.  Its nice to read stories of teamwork.<br />On another note, it is a crying shame that Jeri Neilsen's ex-husband and children have such a terrible attitude towards our heroine.  Sometimes one must strive to put one's ego at the door.  Jeri's ex sounds like the worst kind of jerk and regardless he should never have even considered turning her children against her. One should always try to take a diplomatic approach regarding divorce issues and children should try to love and respect both parents. However, it would have been nice if Jeri Neilsen mentioned the specific issues her fromer spouse and children had against her.  Its sad that not even a severe illness as cancer could soften the hearts of her &quot;former family&quot;.<br />All things considered, this book is a fairly interesting read.  I truly enjoy stories of perserverance and courage and this memoir is not lacking in that area.  However, there are several missing pieces that need to be told.  Therefore, this book is not completely effective.	2001-04-14
US	51814776	R3P6A6PIT4PR08	068485015X	962464879	The Road Less Traveled	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Some Good Examples	There is alot of technical psychological and spiritual terminology which will not keep everyone's attention.  However, there are some very good examples of the powers of psychotherapy and how an open mind can help anyone. The case of Kathy is especially captivating as this situation in particular shows that healing and change takes a great amount of time and willingness to trust.  There are good examples on how life events can effect one's growth.  Theadore's case is another good example that illustrates that.<br />Life is difficult where there are many trials and tribulations.  People who realize this and are willing to work hard will be on the way to understanding the principles of this book better.  The over reliance on psycho-terminology reduces the effectiveness but overall it has much merit.	2001-03-30
US	51814776	R2ONV15GCKMUMP	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Many Aspects Here Worth Noting	As depressing as this novel can be, there are many critical overtones to it. This book is proerly entitled, because each of the main characters, Lucy, Petrus, Melanie, and most notably David Lurie is dealing with the element of Disgrace.  At the beginning of the book, David Lurie appears to be in a world of his own where all he is concerend about is his next sexual escapade.  Whereas sex remains on his mind in later chapters of this captivating novel, he begins to see the point of view ever so slightly of the female in these relationships when his daughter Lucy is savagely raped by two men and a boy.  It is interesting how David accepts his bannishment from teaching without a fight, but encourages his daughter to report the rapists to the police.<br />The back drop of the South African society plays an interesting part in this story.  Whereas race is not overly emphasized, when it does come up, one can see how the changing times are effecting each of the individuals in this part of the world.  Crime really does pay in this so called new land of opportunity and maybe that is why the lement of Disgrace and Depression is so apparent here that even a dog does not deserve to exist in this element.<br />Overall, this is a thought provoking novel which can ellicit many interesting points of view.  Those who can tune out the depressing theme will find this is a well written book with significant depth.	2001-03-14
US	51814776	R1OQOHRU1HZHHO	0825611830	58894864	Music Sales Cat Stevens Complete: Songs from 1970-1975 (Piano / Vocal / Guitar Artist Songbook)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good Transcription	This book will fit the bill for most musicians who want to play the music of Cat Stevens.  A few of the introductions are somewhat inaccurate and it would be nice if the second and third verses to If I Laugh and Tuesdays Dead could be on the same page as the music. The intro to Moonshadow is missing as  well. None the less most musicians will find this book very helpful.	2001-03-11
US	51814776	R25383S2H1RRFW	0825633141	851766050	Complete, Vol. 2	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Comprehensive	This songbook covers all the songs from beginning of Paul Simon's work with Art Garfunkel thru Still Crazy After All These Years.  Well at least my version which might be an older version.  None the less, the music is fairly accurate and the lyrics are situated with the music for the vocalists complete benefit.  Paul Simon is indeed a talented song-writer as he writes music in many keys and uses many complex chord progressions.	2001-03-11
US	51814776	R2U3WMW7BZA412	0793520703	174116136	Billy Joel Complete - Volume 1	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Excellent Songbook for Guitarists &amp; Pianists	This is a worthwhile music book for musicians who are fans of Billy Joel.  The music provided is quite accurate to the recorded versions.  In addition, most of the instrumental passages are noted.  Includes all the songs from Cold Spring Harbor to Fifty Second Street.	2001-03-11
US	51814776	R39F7JBUCFRI9Y	0897248589	615886063	Grateful Dead Anthology	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Helpful For  Beginner &amp; Mid -Level Musicians	Easy to read music for beginner and mid level musicians.  Most of the instrumental jams are omitted which will dissappoint some folks.  It would have been nice if Ripple, Mr. Charlie, and a few others were included.  None the less, the book has given me many hours of enjoyment.	2001-03-11
US	51814776	RBLV93GISWSS0	0451159799	548988539	1001 More Great Jokes: From the Rib-Tickling to the Unblushing (Signet)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Nice To Glance Through	1001 Jokes are alot to look at.  None the less on a quiet evening one can find a slight majority of them fairly amusing.  Its a little intimidating to read all in sequence.  None the less, the book is organized by subject matter so the reader can easily glance thru the sections of his or her choice.  The varying lengths of each joke help the overall presentation.	2001-03-11
US	51814776	R2T9QTAMVL60T0	0711975728	325071756	Hal Leonard Steely Dan Piano, Vocal, Guitar Tab Book	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Basically Good	This is a reasonable transcription of Steely Dan's music through Gaucho.  Most of the lyrics are included with the written music so a vocalist can merely look at the music to follow along with the music.  A few songs could have been transcripted better.  Its ridiculous that there are no guitar chords listed for Charlie Freak.  What did Denny Dias and Jeff Baxter do on this song off the recorded version. Much of the music is left off of Bodhisattva.  There is no introduction translated although the progression really is about the same.  The instrumental break in Do It Again is also missing and that is less obvious.  However, the basis for the Aja instrumentals is present.<br />Anybody with any musical talent can tell that Donald Fagen and Walter Becker were two talented and complex song-writers.  Gee, just look at the introduction in Deacon Blues.  Thirteen chord changes?!  Anyway, this is worthwhile for most musicians who play Steely Dan as the much of their music can not be easily transcribed by most musicians.  Do It Again, Rikki Don't Lose That Number, Bodhisattva, and a few others may be exceptions.	2001-03-11
US	51814776	R343HGPDAGSSE1	0711925585	541360757	The Beatles After the Break-Up: In Their Own Words	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting Quotes	This is a nice book to peruse thru every now and then.  It shows how John, Paul, George, and Ringo have evolved since the break up.  Yes, each of their opinions change from time to time but don't we all see things differently at specific points in our lives.  In spite of some acrimony over the years, I feel that these guys all basically respected and cared for each other very much.  A neat novelty.	2001-03-11
US	51814776	R3MFY8JWZXK6TX	0898981565	546106956	Creedence Clearwater Revival Complete: Piano/Vocal/Chords	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Inconsistent	This music book serves its purpose on a very BASIC level.  The chord progressions for most Creedence songs are pretty simple.  Therefore, it is hard not to get it right even by accident.  Several of the songs are written in the wrong key but a good musician should be able to transpose.  Most of the instrumental passages are missing(Gloomy, Suzie Q, Walk On The Water,Ramble Tamble, I Heard It Through The Grapevine).  Long As I Can See The Light seems to be a little off with the piano notes.  Most of the other piano music is pretty on the money.  Cotton Fields is butchered on many levels.  The guys only sing the first verse. If there is a book with tabilature out there and guitar solos written out, I would pass on this edition.  However, beginners can certainly use this as it is kept very simple.	2001-03-11
US	51814776	R1ZE4UVUP062OT	0793527155	782642823	Eric Clapton - From the Album Eric Clapton Unplugged	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Does The Job For Most Audiences	This music book is fine for most  beginners and mid level guitarists.  Advanced musicans might find parts of it more helpful than others as they can probably pick out most of EC's tunes without a book.  Many of the instrumental passages are missing.  None the less most of the chords are fairly on the money. Know your level and make the call.	2001-03-11
US	51814776	RHP2I9DDBUM45	0452267781	834390711	Dates from Hell	Books	5	3	3	N	N	It Will Have You In Stitches!	One funny dating story after another.  The stories further illustrate how communication is key to a successful date let alone a promising relationship.  Written very well, darn near every story will have you craving for more.  Very good for those nights when your time is your own.	2001-03-11
US	51814776	R16DU6Y1NVSO7T	0060198591	862114711	Practical Miracles for Mars and Venus Nine Principles for Lasting Love, Increasing Success and Vibrant Health in the 21st Century	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Some Praticality But Not So Clear	John Gray takes a fairly open minded stand in this book.  Throughout each chapter, Mr. Gray tries to emphaize to people not to take things so seriously.  By taking what you can have and enjoying the pleasures of what is given, one will find diminshed stress and the ability to heal.<br />Some of the healing techniques seem a bit undeveloped and  a little out there.  Mere simple words have a limited healing effect.  What is needed is attitude adjustments and Gray presents that fairly well.  Also, the history of change over different time periods is fairly interesting and how it relates to relationships.  However, this book has some psycho babble and is not totally down to earth.  Some interesting points but not too deep.  I borrowed this from my liubrary and would recommend others to do the same.	2001-03-10
US	51814776	RK7YTTG8GJK0E	0517886375	732536271	How Not to Stay Single: 10 Steps to a Great Relationship	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Helpful In A General Way	Do you need some motivation to get out there and find your mate?  Well look no further.  Nita Tucker's How Not To Stay Single is a very good remedy for the Lonely Hearts Blues.  Nita lists some basic suggestions where to go to meet quality people.  She also emphasizes to do what you feel comfortable with and not what someone else may like.<br />What really makes this book stand strong is her no excuses attitude that exists through all the chapters.  She encourages both men and women that the only way to meet your partner is to take chances and risks.  Sitting home alone and hiding from the world is not going to help.  Put yourself in the position to win in as many scenarios as possible and keep an open mind for what is your type.  Most people do not know their own type yet they pick and pick and pick.  This is not beneficial to anybody.  Just get out there and deal with whatever rejection is the basic premise.  For me it makes plenty of sense.<br />I don't give it the full five stars because among the list of questions to break the ice are several negative questions(What is your biggest failure?) which should not be explored in the initial meeting process.  Nita should clearly distinguish this.  Also, a little more detail to handle varying situations of rejection and initial date blues would be helpful.  Nita does do a good job with handling problems that come up in established relationships.  She should do a little better job with some of the initial awkward moments other than play rah rah cheerleader.<br />None the less, this book is very good as a basic Self Help Book.  Her lectures are even more entertaining and in person Nita Tucker is one funny and charming lady.	2001-03-09
US	51814776	R32ORZ95ICBAO0	0451170113	722345215	Night Shift (Signet)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Mixed Batch	I figured that I would try the Short Story route with Mr. King the second time around.  Although there are some very good stories, there are a few clunkers which just did not maintain my interest.  Jerusalem's Lot just never seemed to grab my attention and merely seemed to be a blah blah blah in my memory blanks.  Night Surf does not say anything of consequence and Trucks is incredibly insane where nothing connects.  It just seems as if the Trucks go crazy destroying everything yet how does one man even attempt to defuel them.  Maybe I am not getting this one but I'm sure others feel the same.<br />Quitters, Inc. leaves a good message in between the horror stating that you must have a strong willed attitude when you committ to doing something.  The Ledge is another winner where control is a key element and strength of character perserveres.  The imagery of the spooky town and blood sucking vampires is very captivating in One For The Road.  I Know What You Need and The Man Who Loved Flowers are interesting especially for those of us who are looking for love and tired of being told &quot;I am seeing someone else.&quot;  Last Rung On The Ladder and The Woman In The Room deal with some sad issues involving family that people need to deal with better.<br />If nothing else, the vivid horrific imagery of Stephen King makes this collection a good read.  Even on some of the middle of the road stories such as The Mangler, Battleground, and Children Of The Corn, the various scenes are fairly captivating even if the overall plot is questionable.  Combine this with several captivating stories and a few clunkers, a 3 1/2 star grade seems about fair.	2001-03-06
US	51814776	R2VO8XQ04CRS3T	0967208904	147129746	How to Improve Your Relationships, Dramatically: Methods That Really Work!	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Sound Advice	This book is excellent in a very matter of fact way.  There is a minimum of psycho babble and instead is filled with common sense.  Many people often over-react when something doesn't go their way.  These are the people who need to read this book.  In very simple language it explains how to think of others rather than just yourself.  It also emphasizes taking a diplomatic tact without placing the blame on the other person.  Still another important point is the idea of complimenting people instead of emphasizing only negative points.  So many people withhold compliments from others fearing that the other person will become an egomaniac.  This is so childish.<br />Its really a shame that this book does not get enough press.  This world would be a better place if everyone followed the principles outlined here.  Its also concise and easy to read so many many audiences would appreciate it.  I say pick it up today.	2001-03-03
US	51814776	R25DCTUETS5NIJ	0609607804	48165624	I'm Next: The Strange Journey of America's  Most Unlikely Superhero	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An Easy Read But A Bit Disjointed	This is a fun book that can appeal to light readers.  Bill Goldberg comes accross as a basically likeable guy who shoots straight from the hip.  However, the sequencing of the book is a bit shelter skelter as it starts off in the middle of his wrestling career, then cuts back to the football/wrestling transition period, fast forwards through his two or three eyars in the business and then goes back to his childhood and football career.<br />Its nice that Bill Goldberg has a humble attitude and is gracious for what he has experienced being in the limelight.  Also, his charitable work and touching comments about others who have faced adversy show he has a good heart.  He gives some good accounts of his relationship with other wrestlers although some depth would be nice.  Some of his language is a little bit questionable but  like I said light readers  and wrestling fans will definitely appreciate this account a true super hero.	2001-03-03
US	51814776	R2P79LRMIG1FT8	9991923241	599528019	'C' Is for Corpse	Books	5	0	0	N	N	C is For Captivating	This third mystery from is another winner in Susan Grafton's msytery series.  Susan's flair for the dramatic is very strong throughout especially when she discovers the culprit who is responsible for the murders.  As usual one can gather a clear picture of each of the major characters and many of the supporting players in this thriller.  The characters are tied together better here than in other novels as you aren't taken down any long and winding trails....  This one captivates my mysterious soul.	2001-02-27
US	51814776	R3P0ZB581BNA5Z	0451161351	381306153	Cujo	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Remember To Take Care Of  Your Dog.....Or Else..........	I had never read a Stephen King book before.  Horror/mysteries usually are not my bag.  However, I had to try him once and let me tell you, Stephen sure knows how to tell a story.  Yes the central theme is about the rabid infested dog Cujo terrorizes a sleepy Maine town.  The descriptions of the terror that Cujo is so vivid that you are hooked from the get go with every leap of his crazed dog to each blood letting bite.<br />The side bar stories of the two maritial couples in distress are also quite captivating.  Stephen Kemp's part has haunting overtones as well. The side bar business trip shows what life is like outside of the Castle Rock Village therefore adding a strong presence of realism.  The ending is quite strong as it rasies many questions on parenting and taking risks.<br />Whereas this mystery is not for the faint of heart, it is definitely a first class thriller in its own right.  Just remember to feed your dog regularly and make sure he or she has all his rabies shots or........you just might unleash a monster.	2001-02-17
US	51814776	R1INDD9JZZJ3UE	0743405862	995097341	Do I Stand Alone?: Going to the Mat Against Political Pawns and Media Jackals	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Some Good Points	Jessie Ventura's follow up book to Aint Got Time To Bleed makes some good points about standing up for yourself especially with today's manipulative media. Many journalists do just want to sell a good story.  Jessie's points about the Religious Right and Left, relations with China, BiPartism, and Racism are well taken.<br />However, where Jessie has good intentions, there are some obvious political ploys that he is playing.  How many other govenors travel to Japan on business?  Isn't this more of a federal matter?  Some of his commentary on Wrestling TV seems to contradict his views on the Washington Redskins Football team.  I remember when he used to refer to Tito Santana as chico or boy and described him as having a Hot Latin Temper.  I can overlook such comments as the WWF is not meant to be taken seriously.  However, others might think otherwise. Also, Jessie seems to have too many side jobs most recently his involvement with the XFL.  Although I admit to enjoying his commentating and style, Mr. Ventura does seem to have hidden ulterior motives.  A final point, this sequel repeats to much information that was said in I Don't Have Time To Bleed.<br />This sequel of Jessie's is a worthy read but understand the motive behind it and do not think of Jessie as a total saint.  A 3 1/2 star rating seems fair.	2001-02-17
US	51814776	R32D0O95A8FSDB	0805059555	181097130	"O" Is for Outlaw	Books	4	0	1	N	N	She Keeps You Hooked	Another captivating mystery by the alphabet mistress herself.  Sue Grafton really knows how to tell a story really painting each scene very vividly. Susan really takes you into the personal world of Kinsey Milhoune.  You see a vulnerable side to Kinsey as she realizes that she may have wronged her first husband.  However, the complications are quite intriguing with the many lives her husband did lead. As complex as this mystery is, Susan Grafton analyzes all aspects of each character and his or her possible connection to the crime.  In the end, the perpertrator is revealed leaving you to believe never to leave one stone unturned.  This will appeal to most audiences.	2001-02-13
US	51814776	R2MPQPWN0KY5D2	0553280341	610600590	B Is for Burglar (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fairly Gripping	The second work of Grafton's is quite captivating.  The details of every scene and character are described with great accuracy.  I feel right in the room with the characters.  Grafton could tie the characters together a little better and the ending has a minor fault as an accidental shot should not allow good to prevail over evil.  None the less each chapter and most of the pages add to the story as there are few boring moments.  It makes the grade.	2001-02-04
US	51814776	R3FM5F79J4JR84	0887308171	236042118	HP Way, The	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A Nice Synopsis  But A Dose Of Personality Would Help	This book is a good overview. Its interesting to read how Hewlett Packard has grown from the little garage shop to the large conglomerate it is today. However, there are a few aspects that are clearly missing.<br />First, it would be nice to see what motivated both Bill Hewlett and David Packard to pursue starting up Hewlett Packard and even providing more detail in why they chose an engineering path.  David Packard knew he did not want to follow his father's lawyer career path but he does not say why.  He does mention his like for conducting sicentific experiments but does not ellaborate on what caused such a curiosity.  Als, why were Bill Hewlett's grades so questionable that it took hi father's teching record to get him into Stanford?<br />Also, when David Packard talks about the many Hewlett Packard products he explains them in a manner where only someone familiar with Electronics Products would truly have a clear understanding of what he is talking about.  And the writing style is overly to the point here with little in the way of pizzaz. The glossary helps a little bit but I should not have to find out at the end of the book, what I wanted to know at the beginning.<br />Packard does overglorify his involvement in political affairs.  He puts himself a little too high up on the pedestal with this and that Hewlett Packard was the innovator of the work/personal life balance that many other companies have today.<br />None the less, the parts which Packard details the management style are explained in a good level of detail.  Most readers will get the impression that David Packard was a fair boss who liked to insure that each of his employees was important.  This is hammered home with an incident he had with a machinist.  Also, the Management By Walking Around style is a detailed nicely through the example of corporate visits, departmental presentations, and company picnics.<br />Generally, this is worth reading especially if you can pick it up at your local library.  Its just too bad that there are some missing details and a lack of excitement in the writing style.  But the end result basically meets its intentions..  Its just too bad that there are some missing details and a lack of excitement in the writing style.  But the end result basically meets its intentions.	2001-01-29
US	51814776	R3VNJ76I5AGP6V	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	3	25	28	N	N	Some Good Ideas...Needs Development In Spots	This investment book has good parts.  The beginning is a little bit redundant as it beats to death the same theory that being your own boss is far more advantageous than working for somebody else.  What Mr. Kiyosaki does not realize is that not everyone is cut out to be his own boss.  It takes a lot of business savvy to run your business successfully. Training can help some people but not everyone.  However, business education should take place in schools even on the Elementary Level.  Its too bad Kiyosaki does not give more examples on how our schools can teach children to learn more about finacial matters.  He merely talks about his games for children as well as adults.  The games do seem helpful.  However, if Kiyosaki wants to help our society more, he should consider lowering the price on his merchandise.<br />Kiyosaki starts to provide better ideas towards the last third of the book.  Adults should seek out other resources to improve their financial position in this rat race world.  His idea about exploring the Foreclosure Market for Real Estate Purchases is excellent.  He explains this point in easy to read detail.  He also encourages those people who fit into the &quot;employee&quot; category to start saving early and to take calculated risks.  Another good point is to seek out classes to improve one's knowledge of the stock market.  He makes a decent point to think about the benefit of the class rather than the cost of it.  Kiyokasi needs to realize that there are courses out there that are less expensive than the ones he mentions.<br />The section about incorporating yourself to avoid paying hihg taxes is possibly the highlight of the book.  Many people can take advantage of this and combine it with investment and real estate pursuits.  It involves a lot of study and hardwork which Kiyosaki to provide some more detail on to help out the consumer.<br />The charts he uses to emphasize paying yourself first are basically correct but could use more development. There should be some more detail provided for those who struggle to make a living.  The recommended reading at the end of the book provides a nice reference without being overwhelming.  Its good that Kiyosaki recognizes the acheivements of his colleauges.<br />In general, this is a nice overview.  Many people could change their ways about viewing money from reading this book. Prehaps Kiyosaki gives more detailed examples in his other books or videos.. There should be some more detail provided for those who struggle to make a living.  The recommended reading at the end of the book provides a nice reference without being overwhelming.  Its good that Kiyosaki recognizes the acheivements of his colleauges.<br />In general, this is a nice overview.  Many people could change their ways about viewing money from reading this book. Prehaps Kiyosaki gives more detailed examples in his other books or videos.	2001-01-27
US	51814776	R3PI441SXBRAI8	0345413873	625404653	Monster (An Alex Delaware Novel)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Some Parts Just Don't Connect	The basic story here is fairly interesting.  You wonder through the first half of the book who is behind all these terrible murders.  Then there seems to be several possibilities behind the grisly terrors but the one main suspect still stands out two thirds of the way through.  However many of the connections from scene to scene are not introduced too well.  It is never really clear if Heidi Ott had any evil intentions or not.  Frank Dollard seems to be evil as well but why was he killed off?  Maybe because he talked too much to the investigators.  Kellerman describes Ardis Peak, Milo, Dr. Delaware, and Derrick Crimmins fairly well but many of the other people he fails to add anything very gripping,  Therefore, when you are introduced to a new suspect, it is really a fifty fifty shot if they are part of the rampant murders.  The ending is fairly interesting but many of the connections could have been established with greater clarity.	2001-01-20
US	51814776	R3KM0VGLQEW2IN	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It Holds Its Own	It seems as if there are some pretty shallow reviewers out there.  The people who hate it all merely say its boring and it puts me to sleep.  The ones who like it merely comment that its a page turner.  I'll try to do better.<br />Whereas the book introduces two somewhat unrelated subjects at the beginning(the three jailhouse judges and a presidential election), eventually the two worlds do collide and after a little bit of meandering dialogue but not alot.  Its itneresting how all the politics in the world seem to straighten things out for our eventual presidential candidate and these three crooked judges.  What is especially nice about this Grisham effort is that there are plenty of unusual twists and turns and the ending proves that old habits do not die easy.  Also the fact that this effort does not center around Memphis or the Mid South region exclusively is very good.  Mr. Grisham is getting in touch with other regions in our country.<br /> In general, this book is on or at least cloase to the level of his earlier works and it is truly worthwhile reading.	2001-01-02
US	51814776	R36D93H6GTIYHD	0711935513	971302347	Steely Dan: Reelin' in the Years	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Where's the beef?	I can not understand why everyone is complaining about the writing style of this book.  I think it is presented quite well.  I would like a little more information on certain songs.  However, any reader can really get a good feel that Becker and Fagen are two quirky individuals who can really write great music.  The reader gets a good background of the original band members without becomming overly detailed.  Whereas the writing style is not down right exciting, it matter of factly presents Becker and Fagen as the two talented but oddball musicians that they are.  Well done Mr. Sweet.	2000-12-14
US	51814776	R23BP7H55FHJT	0711948178	619484027	Long Run	Books	3	21	22	N	N	Good summary but some questions do arise.	This book is nice light read on one of the more popular bands from the 1970's.  It neatly discusses each members bio and what abilities they brought to the table.  You really get a good feel for each members personality.<br />However, there are a few errors in this brief summary.  In the first few pages, there was an incident over playing at a benefit for Senator Cranston.  One sentence says it was between Glenn Frey and Don Felder.  However, the next sentence says it was Henley.  Whereas the subsequent sentences seem to indicate that the argument was between Frey and Felder, it shows that the editing was pretty careless.<br />Also, Mr. Shapiro states in the intro that he was only able to interview Randy Meisner directly for this book.  As you read on, there are plenty of comments from the other members. It seems as if Mr. Shapiro derived his comments from alot of second hand sources.  Several of these sources could very well have been taken out of context especially since Mr. Shapiro casually acknowledges these references at the beginning.<br />Finally, Mr. Shapiro glosses over Glenn Frey's solo career too quickly.  Whereas Glenn's solo work was not as strong as Don Henley's, he did have a few top selling singles such as The Heat Is On, You Belong To The City, and Smugglers Blues.  What about his acting roles in Miami Vice?  This is hardly mentioned.<br />None the less the discussion about the antimosity within the band and the sluggish pace of the recording sessions were presented very well.  One can really get a feel that it is not easy being in a rock n roll band.  In general, this book does its job.	2000-12-14
US	51814776	R2VABSE5ICC60M	0345378490	694344232	Congo	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Thrilling if a  Bit Overly Technical	This Michael Cricton novel is quite gripping.  Crichton paints a vivid picture of the many adventurous scenes this group encounters.  Whether its  the attack of the man eating gorillas, the escape the savages in the congo, the moments when Amy the signing gorilla gets kidnapped, escapes and finds her way back, there is much interesting dialogue.  Some of the computer /technical parts are a bit distracting but overall this will keep most audiences interested.	2000-12-12
US	51814776	R2I1AGZ18J0WGX	0823082571	85778380	Backstage Passes and Backstabbing Bastards: Memoirs of a Rock 'N' Roll Survivor	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Hit and Miss	This book is most definitely a mixed bag.  The parts regarding the Lynyrd Skynyrd and Bob Dylan sessions are quite captivating.  The brutal honesty really shines through in those sections.  However, the solo career and Super Session material is quite boring as those parts really portray Mr. Kooper as just another studio musician.  There is a point where it all sounds the same, this was the guitar player, and that was the drummer and we made this kind of music and smoked this type of weed and had these hassles.  What impact did these alleged Super Sessions have on the music industry?  I'll tell you what, absolutely very little if not nothing.  In addition, Mr. Kooper's style does not fully tune you into his world.  He assumes that you know what he is talking about without gramatically introducing you to how he got affiliated with a particular group.  Also the changes are not connected too well.  Many interesting stories but this could definitely have gone alot deeper in spots.	2000-12-04
US	51814776	R10LHK0LOJRNDL	0061008893	286744086	Saved by the Light	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Very Interesting	Death is not a subject I usually like tor ead about.  However, something intrigued me about the title one day at a bookstore and I gave it a glance.  Ever the more curious, I made the purchase and was enamored by Mr. Brinkley's experiences.<br />Whereas I am a realist in most of my literary pursuits, I found Dannion Brinkley's descriptions of what he saw in the afterworld as quite thorough.  Furthermore, I find it quite inspiring that he became a much better person from his ordeal.	2000-10-29
US	51814776	RY31NRW2VE7JF	0684845296	476976583	All You Need is Love: And 99 Other Life Lessons From Classic Rock Songs	Books	1	1	7	N	Y	Very Dissappointing!	I would have to agree with the anonymous writer from Florida on most accounts. I choose to give this one star instead of two because of the wasted potential this book could have been. Any amateur could have written such a simple summary of the careers of Billy Joel, Simon & Garfunkel, Eric Clapton, etc. Pete Fornatale is giving us nothing new there.<br />In addition, Fornatale frequently fails to even quotes the  lyrics of the songs acurately. His expansion on the song's true meanings are suspect at best. As a disc jockey for many years, he could've provided some interesting insight on what each song-writer was trying to say in his song lyrics. However, Fornatale merely goes off on every possible tangent to illustrate all possible meanings each song could have. This makes the book very painful to read and quite unfocused.<br />On top of all the incessant ramblings, Fornatale's analysis is very questionable. In his analysis of the Rolling Stones, Time Waits For No One, Fornatale misleads the readers thinking that if you blow an opportunity to succede in life, another one will come along only with different players. Whereas that may indeed in happen in life, the song merely gives the message to make the most of all your opportunties because they don't last for you, me, or anyone. The analysis for Presence of The Lord doesn't hit the point as well. Having read a book analyzing Eric Clapton's songs, the meaning behind Presence Of The Lord is that Eric who never was a religious man just wanted to Thank G-d for the little things in life. Mr. Fornatale's lack of research caused him to miss the mark again.<br />The premise of this book was to show that Rock N Roll wasn't just about sex, drugs, and rock n roll. Yet, Fornatale includes the Rolling Stones song Satisfaction in this book. This signature Stones song is clearly written from the point of view of someone who is just looking for sex, drugs, and rock n roll. What about the line,\\"He Can't be a man because he don't smoke the same cigarettes as me\\". Its obvious what kind of Cigarettes he's referring to. The last verse refers to Mick trying to find some girl to score with. Mr. Fornatele, you should be embarrased to include this song as an uplifting wholesome rock n roll song.<br />On top of all that, the format for each brief chapter is oh so redundant. Why couldn't our author merely write a simple analysis without categorizing everything? It all sounds the same anyway.<br />For every good moment in this batch(there are a few most particularly pertaining to Bruce Springsteen) there are about three or four bad moments. Mr. Fornatale, I implore you to research your material before publishing your next book. Glance at this in the book store for a few minutes but don't bring it to the cash register.e the same cigarettes as me\\". Its obvious what kind of Cigarettes he's referring to. The last verse refers to Mick trying to find some girl to score with. Mr. Fornatele, you should be embarrased to include this song as an uplifting wholesome rock n roll song.<br />On top of all that, the format for each brief chapter is oh so redundant. Why couldn't our author merely write a simple analysis without categorizing everything? It all sounds the same anyway.<br />For every good moment in this batch(there are a few most particularly pertaining to Bruce Springsteen) there are about three or four bad moments. Mr. Fornatale, I implore you to research your material before publishing your next book. Glance at this in the book store for a few minutes but don't bring it to the cash register.	2000-10-20
US	51814776	R28ADN04QNASWZ	0316292885	918530567	Midnight Riders: The Story of the Allman Brothers Band	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Very Real	Scott Freeman gives a in depth portrait of one of most influential bands of the Classic Rock era.  Most special is the description of Duane Allman's influence on the band.  From reading this book, I realized that Duane was both a talented musician and a leader as he knew how to interact with every one of the band members including his sometimes irresponsible brother Gregg.  It seems that after Duane died, the other band members carried on a piece of the legacy Duane created.  However, each of these other band members has a special personality as well.  There are some great stories interwoved in this book which are funny, sad, and historical in the shape of how blues rock music has evolved.  Anyone who appreciates rock n roll music and even casually likes this band will find this book a winner.	2000-10-19
US	51814776	R3L28AJIVLAEBV	0671611135	9449091	The Baseball Hall of Shame 2	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Some Hillarious Tales!	This is an easy fun to read book detailing some of the lighter moments in baseball.  The stories about the worst teams of all time and the overly obese legends who graced and shadowed the game really stand out.  Also these story about Zeke Bonarus's wacky fielding exploits are pretty hillarious.  This is definitely abook that will amuse young and old time and time again.	2000-10-13
US	51814776	R3A8EG77J9EJ3T	0824602560	841737584	The Jewish Book of Why	Books	5	22	23	N	N	An Excellent Reference	This book makes an excellent reference because it answers many important questions about Jewish beliefs.  Whether its customs related to holidays, marriage, death, clothing, food or otherwise each questions is answered in ane asy to read manner.  The authortakes an open minded stance which further adds to the book's value.  I frequently look back at this book and learn something new each time I pick it up.  Just timeless!	2000-10-10
US	51814776	RBBSAZMVAWRHU	0452270979	90637297	More Dates from Hell: True Stories from Survivors	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Good Sequel	Whereas this book is not as good as the original, thee are still many hillarious moments.  Organized into some amusing chapters, this book can easily get one to relate to some of the pains of dating.  Some of the stories where the Date From Hell is the person writing it, are a bit less amusing than the others.  None the less, sometimes you need to laugh at yourself.  Overall, you really can not go wrong.	2000-10-10
US	51814776	R1OMS4I6SPJ9K0	0440220602	233513923	The Chamber	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Slight Diversion From The Usual Format	John Grisham explores a different style in his book The Chamber.  Instead  of building a story around a well meaning hero, this story is a character  study of a death row criminal and how he got in his predicament. The story  does not move very fast,which will lose some readers. It describes how Sam  Cahill became the bitter old man that he is.  Sam Cahill was raised in a  narrow minded world which shaped him into committing a heinous crime.  Throughout the story, one can feel all the emotions:  loyalty, fear, anger,  strength of character of this complex man as he relates to the system that  tries to bring him down.  It touches on many levels of morals as well as  family issues.  Whereas there are many legal ploys and a few other  dramatics, John Gisham is able to show that he is successful at writing a  character study novel.	2000-08-23
US	51814776	RW0FO47NQVIP6	0385470819	883917886	A Time to Kill	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very Captivating	This is a well told story with a solid plot and some captivating subplots.  The descriptions of the emotions of Carl Halley and the events that  surround him are told in a manner as if you were experiencing each action.  One misguided critic here felt that this story is merely an insult to one's  intelligence.  I say to him,&quot;Just what would you do if it was your  daughter who was raped?&quot;  Even if you do not agree with what the  message the author is trying to get accross, there is no doubt that the  story and drama behind it stand very strong.	2000-08-23
US	51814776	R2BMNATPW9WT2S	0070647623	239843738	Trade Your Way to Financial Freedom	Books	3	62	73	N	Y	Some Good Points But Not An Easy Read	Van Tharp gives some good examples from a vareity of sources on how to monitor one's trading habits.  He discusses many key aspects of the game  and takes a non biased stance on which way is the best for his audience.  His soft sell approach and open minded attitude is quite refreshing when  compared to other authors who seem to have altierior motives.<br />However,  some of the chapters are written from an overly technical point of view.  Mr. Tharp assumes his audience knows what he is talking about but really he  fails to introduce some key analytical concepts. The Arbitrage Theory is  extremely difficult to interpret. The use of statistics helps in spots but  it is recommended that you study this book many times over which the author  does suggest.  Many of Tharp's examples are dry and a bit disconnected from  the stock market world.  Instead of displaying random statistics that  merely displays his ideas from an academic person's point of view, Van  Tharp could have simply cut to the chase and displayed a trend on a well  known stock like IBM or Hewlett Packard which illustrates his and any other  theories discussed in this book.<br />As a reference, this book has the  potential to provide longer term value than other readings that deal with  concepts that became obsolete several years ago as well as other sources  that have a narrow focus/bias. This books provides a reasonably sized  suggested reading list which adds to the value over the long haul.  For  those who have the time, this book could be worth four stars or even more  for those academians out there.  However, others who do not fit the above  criteria will have limited returns from this source.  To be fair to all, I  rate it 3 1/2 stars.	2000-08-17
US	51814776	R1GRY5W2YPKFVS	0767901320	417465911	Success Is a Choice: Ten Steps to Overachieving in Business and Life	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Some Good Advice but Not Too Deep	This book is a very fast read and Pitino hammers home some key points such as setting realistic short term goals.  Also he emphasizes the importance of maintaining focused and keeping a positive attitude.  He gives some  examples from his coaching experiences.  Some stories stand out more than  others.<br />However, many parts of this book seem to repeat itself.  Pitino  does not distinguish each chapter enough.  Somehow Pat Riley's The Winner  Within offers better examples that are more special.  None the less there  is more good than bad and and any sports fan will appreciate Pitino's basic  candor.	2000-07-30
US	51814776	R19WHS3824OVKO	1567313701	107460078	He's Scared, She's Scared: Understanding the Hidden Fears Sabotaging Your Relationships	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Some Very Good Examples	I recently finished reading this book.  There are many good examples on the roles two people play in a relationship.  The authors discuss the active and passive roles and how they interact and change over the course  of time.  The examples are very insightful regarding the trouble signs in a  committment phobic relationship.  The style is easy for almost anyone to  udnerstand and it makes a good reference guide for anyone who has  encountered fear in relationships.	2000-07-25
US	51814776	RAZZLNYPGU7AY	0070480176	778370224	How to Make Money in Stocks: A Winning System in Good Times or Bad	Books	2	16	25	N	Y	Take This With A Grain Of Salt	As many other reviewers have commented, the author's tone throughout this  book is somewhat arrogant and distant.  Many of the examples he provides  are quite vague and described from the point of view that the reader should  already have a clue about the stock market.  Since this book was last  published around 1995, the internet revolution as come on full force and  has significantly changed the way stocks are traded.  Stocks can fall over  8% in one day and recover that the next day.  If one was to listen to Mr.  O'Neil's theory of selling at  8% one would LOSE ALOT OF MONEY!!!!<br />In  addition,Mr. O'Neil's views on other investment vehicles are extremely  narrow minded.  Writing Covered calls CAN I repeat CAN supplement one's  income and allow one to continueously earn extra dollars on investments  should your call continue to expire from month to month as long as the  stock does not go belly up altogether.  Covered Calls are relatively safe  that they are allowed in IRA's.  Mr. O'Neil was to busy looking at all the  negatives that he did not bother to mention this critical positive and the  the other pluses of Writing Covered Calls such as that you canbuy to cover  if the stock shows more downward movement.<br />O'Neil's views on Mutual Funds  and Charting are vague and inaccurate.  One should always investigate who  Manages the money in a Mutual Fund and the years experience these mangers  have.  This is not stated at all.  To say that you must hold a Fund 10-15  years minimum is ludicrous.  I've gotten plenty of mileage out of my Mutual  Funds after less than five.<br />One of the few decent points O'Neil makes  involves the CANSLIM method.  It is outlined accurately so one can do their  own research into those areas.  It would have been nice if Mr. O'Neil gave  some specific examples on how CANSLIM would have worked with a good stock  like IBM or Exxon.  Instead O'Neil merely throws charts at his audience and  oversells the Investors Business Daily.  Don't get me wrong, his paper is  quite good but if I want to believe in an investment book, I don't want to  be sold on a Newspaper.<br />A few years ago, O'Neil's strategy might have had  some merit. Today it just sounds like the ramblings of a angry old windbag  who has lost alot of touch with today's investor.get me wrong, his paper is  quite good but if I want to believe in an investment book, I don't want to  be sold on a Newspaper.<br />A few years ago, O'Neil's strategy might have had  some merit. Today it just sounds like the ramblings of a angry old windbag  who has lost alot of touch with today's investor.	2000-07-08
US	51814776	R2UFZXHJUJJ051	1930097026	421102549	A Twist of Fate	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Tale of Perserverance And Passion	This fine novel by Robyn Williams is extremely captivating.  The liner notes summarize this book as the story of a relationship with Music Industry Mongul Sam Ross and Superstar Songwriter and Musician Ashlea  Jordan.  However, this book is so much more than just that.  Robyn Williams  really gives the reader a clear view of all the characters in this  thrilling novel whether it be the coniving Tracey, the savvy Kyliah, or  Ashlea's firm but fair Grandma Julia.  You really see all the trials and  tribulations that Ashlea Jordan went through from the painful moments as a  child, to her very humble beginnings trying to make it as a peformer, to  her up and down love affair with Sam.  And lets not forget about the  Senator or Parris either.  Then there's the life long friendship with  Kyliah.  The emotions that come between Kyliah and Ashleas are as critical  to the story as between Sam and Ashlea as it further underscores that a  good friendship can be more important than a relationship with alot of  passion.<br />The relationships between the other characters are all  portrayed very deeply as one can really reach into the souls of Paris,  Claudette, Charla, Stephanie, and all the others previously mentioned and  unmentioned.  Its very interesting to view what path someone's life will  take.  Robyn Williams is able to detail Ashlea's trials and tribulations  and offer keen insight into the different worlds she encountered.  This is  an excellent story that will captivate almost any reader.  I just hope to  see the day when it becomes a motion picture.	2000-07-03
US	51814776	RO1CC1MG7IMKN	0028648706	402845498	BAD MOON RISING. The Unofficial History of Creedence Clearwater Revival	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Very Infomative	This book gives a badly neede history of one of the greatest bands of the modern rock n roll era, Creedence Clearwater Revival.  Although the book is somewhat slanted against John Fogerty, it gives some accurate interviews  behind the scenes of a fine band that unfortunately broke up before it had  to.  Very often rock bands do not last as egos are very fragile and there  is so much pressure to keep on performing.  This is fully detailed in this  biography.  The writing style of the author does not bother me as it did  others who reviewed this work.  This is a good choice for those who want to  understand what happened behind the scenes of Creedence Clearwater Revival.	2000-06-15
US	51814776	R17ZVGB2LZ44RR	0767903358	145386936	The Highly Sensitive Person in Love: How Your Relationships Can Thrive When the World Overwhelms You	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Some Worthwhile Information	This book reches out to a previously unnoticed population and the people that are in love with them.  It explains many theories and gets fairly in depth.  The book is a nice reference to look back at now and then as Dr.  Arons explores alot of situations that come up between two HSP's in love as  well as an HSP and a non HSP.  The book is not an easy read as much of the  language is quite profound.  However, it does bring HSP's better in touch  with themselves.  Also, some of the explanations can cue non HSP's into the  world HSP's face everyday.  The same people who can cry at the slightest  provocation can also deeply appreciate the inner beauties of art and music.  Its good that Dr Arons is in touch with herself and recognizes that these  people have a prominent role in our society.	2000-06-14
US	51814776	R331QREGO3438O	0942540029	348228225	One Hour Orgasm	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Most Useful For Those Who Thinks Its All About Me!	If you are new to the world of sex or are having problems in that area with your significant other, this short book can be a temporary breath of fresh air.  It will generally tell you to focus on the &quot;other&quot;  person in the relationship.  Also, it will get you comfortable with what  you want.  It emphasizes that communciation is the key and you can not  assume your partner knows what makes you feel good.  The subject matter is  a bit limited as it does not go on to many tangents.  However, as a quick  cure it all, it will temporarilly fit the bill.	2000-06-14
US	51814776	RML6UIX8GXHTB	0028648706	402845498	BAD MOON RISING. The Unofficial History of Creedence Clearwater Revival	Books	4	23	25	N	Y	Very Detailed	This book gives a very good account of the history of one of America's  Greatest Rock N Roll bands.  The story really unfloded itself AFTER the  band broke up.  Its so sad that with so many rock n roll bands having  reunions years after breaking up, this will never happen with the surviving  members of this band.  It would be nice to hear more from John's point of  view as the book somewhat sides with Stu and Doug.  Whereas Stu and Doug  were a very talented rhythm section, how often has one heard original  material from these guys?  John Fogerty has proven with his solo releases  that he was the straw that stirred the Creedence Drink.  None the less,  John could have been a little more diplomatic about things particularly at  the Rock N Roll Hall Of Fame Jam.  If anything, this book will have you  thinking, What If at many critical junctures.  Just try to overcome the  slight bias against John and you will find this book very informative	2000-05-16
US	51814776	R2Y37RBA661RL2	1892008602	281174058	Wall Street Money Machine, Volume 1	Books	4	66	72	N	Y	It Opens Up Some Good Ideas	This book will definitely have you thinking how to maximize your returns.  Is it all acccurate and fool proof?  No, but each person has utilize Wade's ideas and make them work fo his or her own situation.  The Writing Covered Calls Strategy is probably the most useful part of the book.  This strategy  and consistently add extra income to profits and minimize losses.  Also,  the glossary of terms and the recommended book section can be  helpful.<br />What comes off a bit irritating is the constant selling of Wade  Cook's Seminars.  When I read a book, I don't want to be sold constantly  throughout several chapters to  attend a seminar and that the cost will be  made up through all my successful trades.  [17~Also, some of the more complicated stock plays are not  that easily understandable(Bull Put Spreads, eg.). This is where the PR  Campaign goes full force to sell you on these seminars.<br />I say buy this  book and know your budget and risk tolerance before proceding any further.	2000-05-16
US	51814776	R1IRTDVE7CVUQ1	1576731758	19658905	Every Man Has His Price: The True Story of Wrestling's Million-Dollar Man	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Goes Beyond The Mat	Ted DiBiase's book has a different slant than the biographies about Mick Foley, The Rock, and Arn Anderson.  Ted' story not only deals with his struggles in the wrestling world but also his relationship with God and  family.  The reader gets a good idea of the pain Mr. DiBiase went through  when he suddenly lost his father.  Also revealed is the emotions of  watching his mother perform and later how his mother withered away into a  shell of her former self.  Ted also gives us some insight into the legends  such as Terry Funk and Harley Race who made wrestling what it is today.  The reader really gets a feel into the character of Ted and his  constituents as they their jobs with pride and dignity.<br />This is a special  book that can spread to reeligious audiences as well as wrestling fans as  one can see that Ted DiBiase has learned to become true to his beliefs.	2000-05-13
US	51814776	R2WCHO9ASFRNQT	0910019630	301665267	Rolling Stocks: Making Money on the Ups and Downs	Books	3	8	8	N	Y	Good Idea, Needs More Development	As an active stock trader, I found this book basically helpful.  The concept it introduces is very good and it encourages the use of graphs and charts.  However, the author needs to incoporate some more specifics and probably includes how the Daily Moving Averages can help apply this  principle.  This is a good theory but it needs to relate better to specific  situations as there is a fine line when to play a stock that might roll in  a range and when not to.  The book only partially sucedes in that respect.	2000-04-29
US	51814776	RJ2EGSDQTO6F	0060392991	634723262	Mankind: Have a Nice Day - A Tale of Blood and Sweatsocks	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	An In Depth View Of The Wrestling World	Probably the best thing about this autobiography is the fact that Mick Foley brings you right up close to the action whether it be in the ring or outside it.  Mick gives some witty insights on his fellow comrades which  gives the Wrestling fans some good insight of the many characters that  appear in the WWF as well as the other federations.<br />This is not a book  for the squeamish, as many of Mick Foley's thoughts seem to stem from a  troubled childhood.  It is not pleasant to read about Mankind's numerous  injuries.  What Mankind failed to realize during his career was that he did  not always have to play the part of the tortured mascocistic soul.  Mick  had the ability to win over any crowd with his wit and safe wrestling moves  without resorting to jeopardizing his life for a bunch of blood thirsty  fans by falling from great heights such as in Hell In A Cell.<br />Overall,  this is an excellent view of the Wrestling Business and all fans who don't  mind some blood and gore in their reading should make this a purchase.  However, Mick's point of view in some places may be lacking as don't forget  all the chair shots to the head can have a long last effect on anyone.	2000-04-26
US	51814776	RP3OBLILNSLD1	0060392983	606000879	The Rock Says...	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Focused And Inspiring	For a 27 year old, the Rock Says.....some pretty inspiring things.  For one, he appreciates how others have helped him out.  Also, he has a powerful loving relationship with his lovely wife, Dani.  It really  impressed me that no matter where he is in the world, Rock..uh Dwayne  Johnson always found the time during any day of his life, to call his wife.  To me that speaks alot about true love.<br />There is quite alot of  information in here about Rocky's 27 years.  A great deal of emotions,  feelings, and some inspiring stories.  I have mixed feelings about when  Dwayne turns into the Rock Character in mid-book.  Its an interesting  special effect when he takes on his Rock Persona in his match with Steve  Austin.  However, all those curse words are unnecessary.  Also, I wish The  Rock talked more about his relationship with the other Federation  Superstars besides Steve Austin and Owen Hart.  The Chapters on Austin and  Hart were well done.<br />Overall, this is a good light read as I would not be  surprised if a follow-up to this biography. The Rock is without a doubt the  best dude on the stick in all of the Wrestling World and it shows as Rocky  is getting offers to appear in movies and television left and right.  Rock  Man, there may be a day when you become the &quot;Among The Premiere  Entertainers&quot; in all worlds one day!	2000-03-15
US	51814776	R2M17TO9SULECO	0671749218	29135449	Loose Balls	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fun Light Reading	I remember reading this book many years ago.  Then I came accross a Mr. Maxx review that I actually agreed with and figured why not put in my two cents.  The story of the wild days of ABA is told in a very witty easy to  read manner that will have any reader comming back for more.  Even though  the ABA was around for a short time, it had a strong impact on today's NBA.  Many players, coaches, and announcers contributed to this book which makes  it a worthy read for any sports fan.	2000-03-02
US	51814776	R1FK6HN1AGAUKB	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Solid Like The Rest	Although John Grisham sticks with a pretty simple premise for most if not all of his novels, it is pretty darn effective.  The Partner is no exception.  I read the first 160 pages in a few hours one evening and found  it very captivating.  Its very interesting as the storyline unfolds where  the protaganist's character evolves into something somewhat unexpected.  Grisham provides enough details and subplots to keep the story interesting  yet not overly drawn out to the point where the reader is left  wondering,&quot;gee what happened?&quot;  Anyway, its a fairly quick read  so go buy it.	2000-02-14
US	51814776	RO7UGRHAAYDUO	0812930584	650040726	Built from Scratch: How a Couple of Regular Guys Grew The Home Depot from Nothing to $30 Billion	Books	5	6	12	N	Y	Quality Material	I just finsihed reading this book and it is undoubtedly high quality material. Anyone reading this book gets a very informative history of the Home Depot and the two owners behind it.  You also get a clear picture of  the management style of the company as well as what their priorities are.  I am not a do it yourself person when it comes to home maintenance so last  wekend I decided to view the experience from the inside of one of Home  Depot's stores. Not expecting to buy anything, I left with four items that  I could use for my apartment. Let me tell you, the associates are all  fairly nice people and the shelves are stacked up high.  Was everything  perfect in the store, no, but we all could improve ourselves in someway.  Anyway, as a shareholder in the company, I am proud to say that this is a  company that is going to be around for a long time.  And this book truly  depicts the Home Depot environment very well as it focuses on a very large  audience.	2000-01-22
US	51814776	R1FV3JJ0I7VUV2	0385316399	672294675	Bad as I Wanna Be	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Its Bad Its More Than Nationwide!	Is Dennis Rodman an oustanding member of our society, Heck No!  In addition, he rarely seems to admit he has done anything wrong in his life.  However, his story his spoken from the heart and he doesn't care about  always being Mr. Nice Guy.  Sometimes you have to have a little bit of  attitude to get what you want out of life.  Dennis gives the reader the  inside skinny on life in the NBA and its interesting to read about his  thoughts on players like Jordan, Pippen, Malone, Shaq, and Mr. Robinson.   Dennis has a very vivid imagination and that is waht makes this book a near  classic.	2000-01-22
US	51814776	R3M7YHPP0RY22J	0385316399	672294675	Bad as I Wanna Be	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Its Bad Its More Than Nationwide!	Is Dennis Rodman an oustanding member of our society, Heck No!  In addition, he rarely seems to admit he has done anything wrong in his life.  However, his story his spoken from the heart and he doesn't care about  always being Mr. Nice Guy.  Sometimes you have to have a little bit of  attitude to get what you want out of life.  Dennis gives the reader the  inside skinny on life in the NBA and its interesting to read about his  thoughts on players like Jordan, Pippen, Malone, Shaq, and Mr. Robinson.  Dennis has a very vivid imagination and that is what makes this book a very  good read.	2000-01-22
US	51814776	R3AJ9Q9374IMR6	0679740708	164774	Makes Me Wanna Holler: A Young Black Man in America	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Very Powerful	I am not an African American.  None the less I found this book extremely powerful.  Did Nathan McCall make all the right decisions in his life?  Hell, no. He even made some very bad ones.  However, the emotions behind  his story sound very real to me.  Its very difficult growing up a minority  in a Middle Class neighborhood where you are badly outnumbered.  As a grade  school student, Mr. McCall was badly outnumbered by his peers and teachers  and this clearly shaped him into an angry young man.  This book goes to  show that young people need critical role models and all avenues during  their growing up period of their lives.  Teachers, principal, parents,  children, police officers and more should all be constantly educated to the  evils of prejudice versus Blacks, Jews, Spanish, Asian,and all other  minorities.  This memoir gives a very accurate account of what can happen  when the evils of society corrupt our youth specifically minorities.  Fortunately, Mr. McCall found some productive resources in society today.  You may not agree with alot of what Mr. McCall did as a youth or even as an  adult, but he addresses issues that are very critical in our world today.  Therefore, he has given us a very valuable gift with this autobiography.	2000-01-05
US	51814776	R3AME6LMYLU70L	0887309143	987188387	Direct From Dell: Strategies That Revolutionized an Industry	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Lacks some depth but Overall A Winner	The story of Michael Dell is fairly interesting and reinforces the direct model which is critical in today's business world.  Mr. Dell was a very focused young man and had some defintie ideas regarding what he wanted out  of life as a youth.  It would have been interesting to elarn more about  what motivated him to the success story that he is.  He does repeat the  Customer is King theory quite a bit. It is worth repeating but maybe with  some more substance.  None the less, Michael' story is a worthy read  without being too long.	2000-01-05
US	51814776	R2T74T9PWX6ATA	0449223345	163116850	A Pirate Looks at Fifty	Books	3	3	7	N	Y	Mixed Bag	This book was 420 pages and about 150 too many.  The parts that dealt with his experiences trying to break into the music business were quite interesting.  However the stories about his journeys in the Carribean,  South America, and elsewhere all seem to be a blur.  After a while, it all  sounds the same.  If you travel alot and/or have similar interests as Jimmy  Buffett you might like this book very much.  However, not being one who  flies my own plane or visits the Carribean every winter, I could not make a  full connection.  At times, Jimmy's life sounds like a nice fantasy. But as  he provides more detail, his audience seems to narrow.  I wish Jimmy  focused more on how his experiences influenced some of his songs.  He does  do it a little but I would have liked to know the history behind some more  of his songs. I prefer Jimmy as a song-writer who writes four to five  minute songs as opposed to his memoir writing which extends to 420 pages.  Look for Tales From Margaritaville instead where the little stories are  more focused.	2000-01-04
US	51814776	R2NL1NX1GE507L	0425141756	578188128	The Winner Within: A Life Plan for Team Players	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Well Written	A very good book with good ideas that can be used in the business world as well as with accomplishing personal issues.  Pat's examples have been an inspiration to many others.  It seems to me that Pat Riley has the vision  and the plan to be successful in almost any line of business he chooses in  spite of some criticism from the way he handled leaving the New York  Knicks.	1999-07-20
US	51814776	R2IERF5G8DB381	0878339205	12529949	The Emmitt Zone	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An Easy Read	Probably the most memorable part of this book is the emotions that Emmitt was feeling during critical plays and games during his career.  Anyone reading this can feel as if he were a part of the action.  The book is an  easy read however it does not distinguish itself as compared to other  sports biographies.	1999-07-20
US	51814776	R2DO9HMX8TB5ET	0525943005	64966349	The Dean Witter Guide to Personal Investing	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A decent reference	The book gives a good summary of different investment vehicles out there to beginner and somewhat experienced investors.  However, the book does push the idea of investing through Dean Witter a little too much especially  in the beginning chapters.  Not bad as a reference book although the Motley  Fool books are a little more amusing.	1999-07-17
US	51814776	R3UCKVS5NHEM9X	0375503323	797779175	I Ain't Got Time to Bleed: Reworking the Body Politic from the Bottom Up	Books	4	5	8	N	Y	A rare breed	What this book lacks in depth, it makes up for in honesty.  I would have liked to hear a little more about his wrestling career and more about what he did for Brooklyn Park as mayor but overall you get a very colorful  insight on what makes the &quot;Body&quot; tick.  The people who criticize  Jesse's questionable antics need to lighten up alot.  Many of them likely  voted for Clinton who can't even keep his pants on and continues to lie  about his extrammarital affairs.  Jesse merely lays it on the table.  Whereas some of the things he's done aren't all that appropriate at least  you know where he stands.  I sincerely hope his election launches the  development a strong third party here in America as many voters are very  disenchanted with the two party system which just isn't working!	1999-06-07
US	51814776	R9P4Z1F4GBX2P	0966324609	380761054	Arn Anderson 4 Ever: A Look Behind the Curtain	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Honest, Straight From The Heart	I read this book many months ago and it was indeed well worth the wait as I ordered it straight from the publisher.  With every page, Arn is able to tell you the emotions he went through growing up poor, with limited role  models, and struggling to find his calling.  Many men would never have gone  anywhere with the adversity he faced.  But this is a story straight from  the heart which shows how anyone can overcome obstacles.  God Bless You Arn  for telling your story.	1999-04-03
