US	51815624	R2GXIJCYN1XL7N	0060527234	430519222	an Innocent, a Broad	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Finally	The men have been getting a lot of coverage lately with their witty, sometimes pathos-filled memoirs (See David Sedaris [the best of the bunch], Augusten Burroughs, Dave Eggers, et al.) but where have all the women been hiding? Ann Leary is breaking out of the pack with a short, unsentimental, funny and affecting first novel, a look at her months- long incarceration in England when her first child, Jack is born premature.<br />Although fans of Denis Leary might be eager to see him in print, he plays a minimal role since this is really Ann and Jack's story. I applaud her clean and swift moving prose, admire her willingness to avoid glamorizing herself, and thoroughly enjoyed her unfortunate circumstances. She manages to render a story that could have too emotional both funny and poignant. Perhaps the best part is her realization that for all she felt as if she was trapped in a barbarian country and subjected to weird, foreign medical technologies, the care she received in England was more skilled and advanced than what she would have received in the United States. Oh the irony!<br />While there are no great revelations or life-changing affirmations, Leary manages to write well about a small drama in her life that can be enjoyed by many. Perhaps too restricted in scope to really break into the big time, I imagine given the subject matter that this will still attract a large female audience, but it should by no means limit it to the feminine gender. Three and half stars.	2004-06-16
US	51815624	R357B8UEQH9H6Y	1591827256	465560799	The Demon Ororon, Vol. 1	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Fiendishly Good!	I was really surprised by how much I enjoyed The Demon Ororon. First, although the art may not be to everyone's taste, I found the exaggeration of perspective and elongation of the character's bodies to be visually interesting and well-used to help tell the story. My biggest complaint is that the guys all look the same. In my mind at least the lead - Ororon - should stand out from the pack. Still, you get used to style and can usually manage to distinguish between them all eventually. For the most part the drawings are clean and uncluttered although towards the end the fighting scenes required a few minutes to sort out whose body parts are whose. Did I mention the body parts? Certainly not the most horrifying things I've ever seen but there are bitten off fingers, dangling intestines and plenty of blood so consider this fair warning. My only other complaint was with the editing. Really sloppy, with plenty of typos plus some of the fonts used are hard to read.  But how's the story you ask?<br />If you're Chiaki, you're a rather strange, lonely girl who attracts all the wrong sorts of people consisting of spirits and ghouls, while your friends and family abandon you. Imagine you come across a beautiful, bleeding young man and simply out of the goodness of your character, you offer to help. What might you get in return? This is the set up to the very engaging story of The Demon Ororon. For Chiaki, she acquires a demon, but not just any demon. He's the good-looking, cynical, sharp-dressing, chain-smoking Demon King of Hell. And he's having a rather rough time. Being a king sucks especially when you have a bounty on your head, you family hates you, and your friends try to murder you. What do you do? <br />For saving his life, Ororon grants Chiaki one wish and she decides she wants him to stay with her forever.  With this one simple act, these two alienated souls are about to form an unlikely and forbidden relationship that will be complicated by many factors, the least of which is that Chiaki is a terrible cook. While their origins seem the most likely to rip them apart - after all, he's demon royalty and she's the forbidden result of a human/archangel coupling, it is their personal philosophies that will be the true test of their devotion. But before their idyllic life can really get started, the bounty-hunters, angels and ghouls converge, chasing after both Chiaki and Ororon, wanting nothing less than their deaths. Chiaki considers herself to be a good person who never would kill and certainly doesn't believe that Ororon should, yet he freely acknowledges his killer ways, but defends it as a necessary act. If they are going to kill you, can't you fight back to save yourself? <br />This question, whether it's right or wrong to kill and what exactly does it mean to be `good' or `evil' drive the plot of the story. Can two such diametrically opposed people stay together, or will their world-views rip them apart? This first book sets up the characters and a little of their back story before flying forward into confrontation and conflict. I really liked that this will be a fast moving story since it's only a 4 book series. On the other hand, I am enjoying the characters so much, and the questions they represent are so complicated, that I am a little concerned that they can be successfully concluded in such a short work.  Nevertheless, The Demon Ororon is proving to be a promising series with unique art and a meaty story filled with complicated, engaging characters.	2004-06-16
US	51815624	R2ZYSTHW9ZS23O	1592220193	178224632	Balance Of Trade (A Liaden Universe Novel)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	On Balance, A  Fine Return to the Liaden Universe	Fans and newcomers alike should thoroughly enjoy Lee &amp; Miller's latest adventure set in their ever-engaging Liaden Universe. Taking a break from all things Korval, they bring us a tale from an earlier time when Terrans and Liadens were still relative strangers to each other. Our young hero is Jethri, from a human trading ship burdened with a cold, distant mother, and an enigmatic, dead father but blessed with a deft hand for trade. He stumbles into a Liaden matter of honor and his own sense of fair play and justice bring him to the regard of Master Trader Norn van'Deen, Clan Ixin. She decides that there is trade and profit to be made by championing him as her apprentice.<br />Whisked off to learn Liaden ways and trade far from everything he has ever known, he has an uncertain start but gradually finds his footing and his mettle. He conquers Liaden bows, makes friends as well as enemies and for a spacer born and bred, even manages to find his footing living on a planet.<br />Jethri is a compelling young man, real enough to not be perfect, but with enough integrity and kindness to make you root for him. His tour through Lianden life is interesting, focusing much more on trade than any of the previous books. Fans of the space opera style romance of previous books will be find little of that here, nonetheless they won't be disappointed since Lee &amp; Miller write as great a story as ever. Familiar trademarks also show up: scouts, cats, librarians and dramliza all play a part, but respectfully take a back seat Jethri and his journey.<br />The only nitpick I had was the book spends so much time building to various plot points - the mystery surrounding Jethri's father, the existence of old tech, his admittance to the Liaden trade guild - that the ending, when it does come, falls somewhat short of satisfying as it just started to get really interesting. If only there had been another 400 pages!  As it is, the story provides a very agreeable time and certainly leaves room for more adventures with Jethri. I'll definately look forward to reading more about him.	2004-04-16
US	51815624	R1CIIUEZRL8O2B	0765307456	426788127	Daughter of Exile	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Everything Except the Kitchen Sink	Somehow Isabel Glass manages to shoehorn in nearly every element of fantasy going and yet somehow manages to keep it from overwhelming her story. She's got your standard medieval setting, a king in peril, a kingdom invaded, elves, enchanted forests, schools of magic, giants, shapeshifting, torture, plotting heirs, deformities, drug addiction, snotty nobles, adolescent rebellion AND a spunky heroine. <br />What allows this book to suceed is that Glass keeps the book straightforward, in both plot, tone and page count. Rather than wax poetic on the strange magic-wielding/shape-shifting women of the forest for four chapters, they are introduced, help our main protagonists and come back to give a twist to the story towards the end. Interactions among characters are similarly blunt. There isn't of romantic prose on offer, but there also isn't a lot of overheated melodrama either.  <br />Those looking for something new to sate their jaded fantasy palate should probably look elsewhere, although I found it a reasonably enjoyable and quick read. At least you won't feel cheated of hours of you life at the end. Newer readers getting into the genre and teens will likely find this an engaging read. Overall Glass shows she can put a story together. If she can narrow her focus and develop an original concept or a twist on something old, she could definately go places.	2004-04-15
US	51815624	R1KJZL3Y4A5RX9	0756400414	388527482	The Complete Ivory (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	A Text on Alien Culture and Encounters by Theodora of Pyrene	The Ivory series is one of my favorite trilogies and I was thrilled to see them back in print, for those who missed them the first time around. It's hard to described the Ivory series exactly. There are magical elements. Ran Cormallon for instance, is a sorcerer, and magic does play it's part, but it's almost used almost off-handedly, since to the Ivorians, it is an everyday fact of life. For rational, Athenian scholar Theodora of Pyrene though, it's a uncomfortable thorn in the side of her scientifically based world-view. In any case, magic isn't really the main issue, nor are the science-fiction elements (interstellar liners, life on other planets, etc.) The real focus of these books is on following the adventures (and occasional mishaps) of Theo, a detached scholar, trained in myths and folklore, stuck on the backward planet of Ivory. Bribery, murder and a psychotic level of distrust is the norm, as is sorcery. Half the fun of the ride is reading about her coping with numerous challenges and seeing a new and exotic culture through her eyes. It's so enjoyable because Theodora of Pyrene is as individualistic and as interesting a voice in SF as you're likely to meet. She has a wonderfully wry way of looking at things and if sometimes she identifies a little too closely with anyone and everyone she meets, say outlaws for instance, well she can be forgiven seeing as she's just a tymon - or foreign barbarian without manners.<br />The first book introduces Theo and her plight. She's stuck on Ivory, telling fake fortunes in the marketplace and trying to figure out how many years she'll have to work before making enough to earn her passage home. Imagine her joy when she's offered a wealthy commission by Ran Cormallon- but it's not without it's dangers! The book follows Theo as she's has her nice, neat world-view changed, learns to live in her own body, meets a wanted outlaw, and discover some truths about herelf she maybe would prefer not to.  A cultural tour de force through an alien land. <br />Books two and three continue Theo's adventures, although she's half-married to Ran (local custom) and adjusting her worldview to a permanent stay on Ivory and debating whether Ran is really the same species. Could they have kids? Book two is a favorite, as Theo and Ran, only partially married, are shanghied into helping a notorious band of outlaws. Only Theo could integrate herself so well in so little time with a ruthless band of thieves and murderers - they like her stories. When she tells them all about Robin Hood, the Northwest sector and outlawry will never be the same.<br />The third book is probably the weakest of the three, but still enjoyable, as Theo and Ran work a little closer to home. They are plunged into solving a murder-mystery. Friends from their outlaw days make an appearance and poor Theo will have to suffer through her allergy to cats. Make that an 'aversion to' since on Ivory they don't understand allergies. And of course, Theo makes more inappropriate friends, much to Ran's despair. But all's well that end's well and Egan leaves the third book open-ended enough to suggest sequels, however I wouldn't get my hopes up.<br />If you were charmed by Theo and enjoyed the Ivory series as much as I did and are clamoring for more, I highly recommend Egan's other book, writing as Jane Emerson, called City of Diamond. It might not be in print anymore, but it's a great book and worth picking up if you see it. I hope more people will find Egan/Emerson's books. Maybe increased sales will lure her away from tv writing and back where she belongs, telling more stories about Ran and Theo, or Tal and Adrian....	2003-12-23
US	51815624	R2BOJ9509B615K	0425191788	301916690	Sunshine	Books	3	264	316	N	N	"Beauty and the Vampire"	Sunshine is destined I think, to be one of those books people either love or hate. As a McKinley fan any new book by her is to be welcomed, but having finished this I'm left in the curious position of having liked it in spite of it's flaws, and thus sympathetic to a number of reviewers who have NOT enjoyed reading it at all. Part of the problem is likely to be the disconnect between the familiar, young adult novelist and fairytale re-teller we've come to love and that author departing, so to speak, from the text to try something new. Although I had problems with Sunshine, I'm inclined to give McKinley the benefit of the doubt because I'm always glad to see authors trying to stretch beyond their comfortable niche. Also, I think McKinley has managed to find that most elusive of things, a new take on an over-saturated genre.  Don't get me wrong, I've enjoyed my Anne Rice, Laurell K. Hamilton, Tanya Huff, et al. but the field has gotten over-crowded with similar stories about sexy, bad-boy vampires and the women that love them. <br />McKinley's vampires are genuinely loathsome creatures that aside from being human-shaped, don't share a lot of similarities with humans. I was convinced Constantine was really was an alien creature who wasn't wild about having anything to do with a human. Not only that, he's ugly, smells funny and generally has a terror-inducing presence. He's definitely not the in-humanely handsome, charming, sexy, and powerful vampire figure that is currently in vogue. And although Sunshine and Con develop a \\"bond\\" it is more in the nature of an obligation where the two parties would be just as happy to have nothing to do with one another under better circumstances. Although it doesn't get explored in depth, Sunshine is legitimately concerned about the morality of choosing to let such an evil creature exist. Now Con is a bad guy who has chosen a different way of un-life than other vampires, but McKinley never really forces Sunshine to confront what that means. He's obviously less bad than the villain, but by how much? We don't know because Con never really does anything \\"evil\\" except to kill the doe. We don't know much about his history and that's a flaw on the author's part. Depending on how she explored it, his concrete actions would have framed a more compelling dilemma for our heroine than what  her generalized understanding of the evil of the Others gave her. But on the whole, I thought her take on vampires was interesting enough that it boosted the book past some serious flaws.<br />I also liked the thought that went into Sunshine's element. A really nice, fresh twist that explores the opposites attract theory in the sense that she is the embodiment of daylight while vampires are the embodiment of darkness, and that by being so much of one she is drawn to the opposite element, much as one coin has two different but connected sides. At the same time, her association with the dark possibly `taints' her by incorporating vampiric elements like seeing in the dark and sense of direction to her arsenal. Whether the same is true for Con is left open, or perhaps hopefully to be explored in a sequel. <br />The biggest problems with this book were the narrative. Sunshine's first person voice was difficult to connect with. She too often came across as whiny and pathetic, making her hard to sympathize with. When the whole book rests on the singular voice, you want to make an effort to give someone the readers can relate to, though they don't have to be perfect. The other glaring problem with Sunshine's voice is that it was too often the vehicle for large exposition dumps. The information was necessary, but I think there were cleverer ways to do that didn't so obviously break up the flow of the plot. Also, the sentence structures and word choices McKinley uses as Sunshine were awkward to the ear, consistently throwing me out of the flow of the story. I especially was annoyed by the phony slang that felt forcibly inserted tohelp differentiate this world as futuristic. `Sheer\\" really bothered me until I decided that it was slang for kosher. The lack of dialogue between characters was equally problematic. I don't think there was an actual conversation at all between Sunshine and her mom for instance, and without conversation between Sunshine and the other characters, they never really got a chance to become fleshed-out. Mel was a prime example. He's this intriguing guy, little bit bad-boy but a cook and you know he's got something going on, but what? Heck, we don't even get to see inside Con's head. I just wish that there has been more to connect me to the other characters. I will say there were some funny comments and observations but on the whole, the structure of the writing was very disjointed. Perhaps that fact I felt compelled to struggle past those flaws should be attributed to the strength of the basic story.<br />When Sunshine tells Con the tale of Beauty and the Beast, I think McKinley is definitely alluding to Sunshine as being a modern re-telling of the Beauty and the Beast, inserting the vampire for the Beast. I was also reminded of two of my favorite books by her, The Blue Sword and The Hero and the Crown, both structurally and in similar characters. This is definitely a book that with more polish and trim could have been a McKinley classic. As it stands I think this book is symptomatic of a writer's growing pains as she tries to explore some familiar themes in a new way. Sunshine is a strong story that ultimately fails in it's execution. I'd definitely read a sequel, one where hopefully McKinley's very well-deserved story, character building and writing skills can really shine.	2003-12-08
US	51815624	R15HS0V0QZJU8E	0553803484	307659188	The Murder Stone	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Good Writing, Characters &amp; Plot Sacrificed on Murder Stone	Ok, maybe it's not quite as bad as my title suggests, but this is a weak effort all around. I've previously enjoyed Todd's Ian Rutledge mysteries, which is partly why this one has come as such a disappointment. Todd has a proven record of well-written, intriguing mysteries that excel at capturing the world-weary, soul-draining experience that was WWI, and the effects, especially on the survivors. This is not one of them.<br />Where in previous books the war's experience has been a crucible to shape the main character/s, in the Murder Stone it has affected only the periphery of the protagonist, Francesca Hatton, who has lost her five cousins to bloody battles and spent time tending the wounded as a Red Cross worker. Her antagonist, Richard Leighton is himself invalided out of the war and expected to die, yet his experience seems to have touched little of his character. <br />While uninteresting main characters aren't going to completely derail a good mystery, the lack of that, as well as an entertaining plot is sure to sink a story.  Supposedly there are many dark secrets that Francesca's beloved grandfather has kept hidden from her, which are now only coming to life after his death. Unfortunately the dark secrets aren't terribly compelling, aren't well presented, and are downright melodramatic. He was the sponsor of an orphanage! He might have cheated a man out of his estate! Francesca is menaced by mean men and fortune-hunting women! Rather than use a well-written narrative to let the secrets unfold, Todd chooses the clumsy insertion of first-person chapters by the deceased cousins and grandfather (who are shamefully reduced to stereotypes: The Engineer, The Explorer, The Soldier, etc as if Todd couldn't be troubled to actually make them compelling minor characters), which were as pointless as they were irritating.<br />Numerous side stories are planted to provide some cover for the mystery, but they are weedy, ill-grown things and amount to little in the end. Thewhole, Cousin-Peter-May-Be-Alive-But-Deranged plot was useless, diversionary and unfulfilling. The infamously named Murder Stone turns out to have little significance considering that it warranted a mention in the will and the absurdity of having it shipped to Scotland. Also, I find it difficult to buy that a woman of Francesca's breeding would ever considering marrying her half-brother, no matter how much her need to make him happy, and the less said about that overtly melodramatic and unlikely plot device, the better.. <br />Perhaps the book's biggest sin (besides being uninteresting and poorly written) is that it raises, but ultimately neglects, the most potentially complex and substantive issue: exploring the idea the `adopted' cousins were better men than the blood sons of Hatton. The World Wars were the shock that helped dismantle the class-consciousness of Britain and that theme again would have tied in nicely with the adoption angle and could have really fleshed out the plot, besides fitting in well with Todd's own earlier explorations of the ramifications of WWI. Alas, that is not to be.  Instead we get The Murder Stone.	2003-11-26
US	51815624	R2NE310TBHTGIG	0060528052	99496212	Death's Jest-Book	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Death Gets The Last Laugh	I loathed Dialogues of the Dead and so I didn't have high expectations of this direct sequel. Imagine my suprise to find it enjoyable. It certainly doesn't measure up to Hill's finest, but I think overall this is an improvement on Dialogues, and is headed in the right direction of getting the Daziel and Pascoe series back on an interesting and rewarding track.<br />Hill tackles some weighty themes: death, revenge, father-figures and obssession, not necessarily successfully. Still, his writing and wit are in top form and do much to disguise that this book and it's various conceits are riding on the insubstantial coat tails of what is essentially a heist mystery. The actual plot proves too thin to support the weight and the book ends rather flatly as a result.<br />For those who love or loath Franny Roote, Hill tried to be coy about his ultimate rehabilitation. His letters to Pascoe were initially intriguing, but they ended up interrupting the flow of the narrative too much and became intrusive. I do think Hill did an excellent job of leaving Franny's motives ambiguous. He could be reformed, or he could be a murderer. The denouement at the end is not by any means final, neither answering to Roote's motivations or in any way ultimately deciding his fate. I suspect that Roote will continue to plague Pascoe and unfortunately the readers for some time to come.<br />Other less successful elements include wrapping up the murderer from Dialogues. It is here that I think Hill copped out, big time, as if the entire Dialgues wasn't a cop out, he fails to satisfactorily resolve the fate of the villain in the piece, who not only is NOT brought to justice, but who is provided a physical reason for their behavior, essentially saying it wasn't in their control, so oh well. That really bothered me.<br />  *SPOILERS AHEAD* you've been warned!<br />The one theme I do think Hill succeeds in imparting is that death is a jest on us all, readers and characters alike. Whether we like it ornot, we don't always get all the answers we want, because sometimes they go to the grave. Rye Pomona the murderess not only is exculpated through a physical malady, she gets to die without being brought to any justice regarding her many Wordman crimes. Indeed, her death doesn't definately answer anyone's questions about her involvement, so only Death will know for sure. The same scenario applies to Franny Roote, as we end the book with him clinging to life by a thread, leaving Pascoe unsure til the end, not only about Franny's guilt but also his true motivations. And does his self-sacrificing act to save Rosie provide the evidence we need to declare his guilt or innocence one way or the other? Again, only Death will know. Death cheats again with the killing of Lee. Although his story is much less ambiguous that the Rye and Roote subplots, his passing still leaves Wield with unresolved questions that now will never be answered.<br />Now that ostensibly the two biggest unresolved plotlines of the last two books have been addressed, I look forward to seeing our crime fighting duo back on track for more interesting and well-written mysteries. Whatever other faults Hill may have, you can't say he doesn't have ambition and daring to try for something more than an English cosy. Whether you liked or hated Dialogues and/or Jest, there was certainly food for thought mixed in there. Sometimes intigrating it with the conventions of the murder mystery/police procedural works, sometimes it doesn't.	2003-11-17
US	51815624	R1D9TCDX5UU7T5	0441010601	193642929	In The King's Service (Kurtz, Katherine)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	More Genealogy Than Story	For fans of Katherine Kurtz's Deryni series and Alaric Morgan fans in particular, this is the start of a long-awaited trilogy dealing with the enigmatic and powerful half-Deryni Duke of Corwyn, who we first met in Deryni Rising. Alas for us, Alaric doesn't make an appearance until the very end of the book, and then only as a babe. Kurtz uses an entire book to delve into, the admittedly, complicated relantionships surrounding the Gwynnedd court, as well as Deryni bloodlines and alliances. Sprinkled with armed incusions and many births, deaths, and weddings, this book reads more like a genealogy than a story. It's a credit to Kurtz's writing that she makes all this as interesting as she does, however, this is a difficult book to like because it's essentially setting the stage for the REAL story we've all been waiting for - Alaric's childhood and youth as King Brion's ally and friend.<br />She drops some tantalizing hints to lure the reader in - bringing up the heritage and legacy of Lewys ap Norfal's kin, who initially play a fairy big role at the start of the book, only to have them fade into the background. The Camberian Council appears again as well, but prove to be impotent. Considering the consternation they were having over Donal's child (...), I found it intriguing that they acquiesced to the marriage of Alyce to a human, thus ensuring that any of her children would be hated \\"half-breed\\" Deryni. Yet none of these intriguing points is ever carried through with, although with two more books to go it could be these dropped plot threads will be resolved down the road. Still, it doesn't leave much meaty story to keep reader's interest engaged.<br />The majority of the book has to do with Alyce de Corwyn, who is Alaric's mother. She's a fine enough protagonist, but the book lacked a lot of what I loved most about Kurtz's earlier Deryni works - the sense of history come alive, the derring-do of the knights and the secret and magical workings of the Deryni sorcerers. Iattribute much of this to the lack of a strong villian. Our heros have to have worthy (and evil) opponents in order to really shine in comparison. Where is this era's frothing Archbishop Loris? The rogue priest, brother to a bishop is meant to be one - but he's  a strawman. He's evil without substantial motivation and thus has no true impact on our heros. Much of the book's plot then boils down to two questions: 1. Will Donal Haldane get a magical protector for his heirs? 2. Who will inherit the Duchy of Corwyn? Interesting questions, but not really interesting enough to devote an entire book to.<br />Overall this was a disappointment. After waiting all this time for a new Deryni adventure, Kurtz seems to have been too busy with diagramming her genealogy trees to remember how to actually write a story. In most cases I would say, unless some of the tangled relantionships are of interest to you, you could safely skip this book and pick up the second (upcoming) one without missing a beat.	2003-11-17
US	51815624	R3DVRXUPVYDCCN	0553801309	768428518	A Place of Hiding	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Where's George Hiding Her Next Good Story? Not Here.	As an Elizabeth George fan I find her one of the more frustrating authors to follow. When she's in top form (A Great Deliverance, Playing for the Ashes) no one writes better character-driven mysteries. When she's off, her efforts are at best, uneven. After a spate of so-so books, I was looking forward  to A Place of Hiding as a return to form. I was disappointed.<br />What's become a common problem with George is her sheer abundance of words. She's been too wordy and too long for several books now, and a merciless editorial pen would do her a world of good. Do we really need an entire paragraph devoted to describing the relative whiteness of a person's laundry? I'm all for detail and I love long books, but there is a limit. When the writing bogs down the momentum of the story and muddles it into an incomplete mess, it's time to do some judicious trimming. <br />The other problem I had with this book is the focus on the main characters. Lynley and Havers are given a book off to concentrate on St. James and his wife Deborah. As minor characters interacting with Lynley and co. I find them interesting enough, but sadly their turn at the spotlight proves just how shallow they are. St. James comes off as a cold, controlling bastard who is STILL agonizing about his disability, and Deborah comes off as a whiny, immature brat. This story serves neither character well, and only illuminates the fact that they can't carry a story on their own.<br />My other problem was the less than subtle interjection of The Main Theme, i.e. people's unrealistic expectations of each other, and what they feel they are 'owed.' An interesting idea, but one that wasn't intergrated very well into the main mystery. And the mystery? There really wasn't one. George's attempts to plant red herrings and focus attention on other suspects never really pans out, weakening the whole story at the expense of her moral. There were also loose threads aplenty, for instance, what was Val hiding from her husband exactly? We get hints but then the entire subplot never goes anywhere. <br />I wish George has taken some time to really polish this story, since I think it could have risen to the middle/upper tier of her better works, however this was not to be. As it stands, this is a mediocre effort that will likely only appeal to die-hard fans of George, or St. James/Deborah devotees. Plus a little back story on where the heck Guernsey is would have been very helpful. I managed to deduce quite a bit from the context of the book, but a better explanation of it would have served her many American fans well.	2003-09-15
US	51815624	R2FYMMWK8PPKUJ	1931514542	418650581	Marmalade Boy, Vol. 1	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Marmalade Boy Tastes Pretty Bland	I know this is a well-loved and well-reviewed series (how do you think I ended up reading it in the first place?) but my overall assessment is that it doesn't live up to the hype.<br />The reviews and blurbs tout it as a \\"wacky\\" romantic comedy but aside from the fact that Miki and Yuu's parents swap partners, which I actually found kinda creepy, it didn't really bring the \\"wacky\\" for me. Sure, it's unusual, but the storyline doesn't really go anywhere with it except toward the end which I won't get into since I don't want to spoil anyone.<br />Miki is likeable but her love triangle didn't interest me much. Ginta is her best friend and Yuu is her step-brother but frankly I don't know what she sees in either of them. Ginta is an immature hot-head and Yuu is a mysterious ice-man. Blah. The auther then proceeds to throw in alternate love interests for all three but since I didn't really care enough about them in the first place, who they ended up with didn't matter. <br />The only marginally interesting storyline was Miki's friend Meiko, who has a relantionship with her teacher. Ok, maybe that's kinda creepy too, but it was slightly more interesting than the main plot. Miki's life is full of typical Shojo problems: multiple love-interests, sports, best-friend woes, weird parents, school trips, and part-time jobs. I haven't read tons of manga, but this already felt like a well-worn storyline that just didn't offer anything different enough to catch my interest. Definitely manga lite and suitable for a younger crowd.<br />If your looking for angsty teen romance of a more realistic and dramatic sort I highly recommend Mars by Fuyumi Soryo.	2003-09-03
US	51815624	R3IZ1FS7ESAK63	159182155X	736197877	Demon Diary, Book 2	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Dreamy Demons	If you can get past the fact that Raenef looks way too much like a girl I think there is a lot to like in Demon Diary V.2. The story continues with Eclipse, the older, wiser and presumably more frightening demon continuing his tutelage of Master Raenef, former thief and current demon lord. Their dynamic is one of contrasts since Eclipse is everything a demon lord should be: evil, ruthless and merciless and Raenef....well, let's just say Eclipse has got his work cut out for him. Still, you see that Raenef is pathetically eager to please Eclipse and manages to get himself into plenty of trouble as a result. Although Eclipse seems rather forbidding, you also get the sense that he might have a soft spot for his charge.<br />Raenef's unexpected trip places him in no small amount of danger and he ends up gaining yet another \\"pet\\" to add to his \\"zoo\\" much to Eclipse's chagrin. We also get a flashback detailing how Eclipse met Raenef, which is a cute story and looks to be continued in the third volume.<br />So what's not to like? The artwork is nice although Raenef could look stand to look less like a girl, and frankly there is plenty of humor here at work, both visually and storywise. The potential plot seems filled with lots of excellant possibilities as newcomer Raenef continues to adjust to his power and status while trying to maintaining his kind heart. Eclipse's frustrations are doubtless going to be legion and provide plenty of humor as well. The fact there are demons, gods, clerics and fate involved should only add spice to the mix. I enjoyed this volume and am looking forward to seeing the story pick up some momentum in volume 3.	2003-08-14
US	51815624	R1D3878GOH8KFX	1931514585	750887337	Mars #1	Books	4	16	18	N	N	MARvellous!	I picked this up after reading a lot of positive reviews and overall I was pleasantly suprised. Although you wonder what good-girl Kira sees in bad-boy Rei, the first volume quickly dismisses those easy steorotypes. Even though Kira is shy and rather withdrawn, after a hazing incident she shows she has more mettle than you might think and Rei, for all his rebel ways has more going for him than he or indeed any of his friends think. Brought together by a chance meeting in a park these two very opposite yet equally wounded people recognize a strength in the other that they would like to have in themselves. Without even being aware of it, they are drawn into a friendship, supporting one another, especially as this out of the ordinary relationship causes waves in school and at home. Their budding friendship is tested as the girls harass Kira and Rei uses violence to solve his problems.<br />Mars v.1 sets up the story and the main protagonists nicely. You know things won't be easy for these two and Soryo plants the seeds of future storylines with throw away comments that hint that both these teeneagers have plenty of past secrets yet to be revealed. Whether they can use each other's strengths to overcome their demons, or whether their pasts will drive them apart remains to be seen. I was impressed that although some of the events seemed slightly outrageous, I thought the overall level of realism was a strong foundation for what otherwise could have been a cookie cutter high school romance. Teachers who sexually harrass their students, hazing, violence, cliques, and dysfunctional family relationships sound pretty par for the course.<br />In addtion, I found the artwork rather pleasing. I enjoyed the more realistic, sketchy quality of the artwork, i.e. the hair is flowing, the noses and chins less rigidly pointed. There isn't a lot of background clutter either which makes for easier reading. Lots of intense emotion is conveyed through the large (and large-lashed!) eyes. Still, it's easy to tell what the people are like just based on their posture and dress. Kira's shy status is easily discerned by her refusal to look anyone in the eye and her conservative wardrobe with lot's of long-sleeved shirts and long dresses. Rei is confident and slightly dangerous,wearing ripped jeans and t-shirts with his long-hair. He smiles readily, walking with confidence and riding a motorcycle.<br />With 14 volumes yet to go you know that there is going to be some ups and downs for these two, as well as the revelation of painful past secrets. Despite their cliched exterior, discovering what makes Rei and Kira unique individuals is what makes this an above-average story. I recommend staying with this series as it's only going to get better.	2003-08-14
US	51815624	R1LV0QXKE5J6SK	0312890451	308571229	Snare	Books	2	15	18	N	N	Snare Failed To Capture My Interest	Despite an intriguing premise, Snare was ultimately a disappointment. Katherine Kerr is an accomplished writer and I've enjoyed both her Deverry fantasy series and her occasional forays in science fiction such as Polar City Blues. What's even more frustrating about Snare is that it's hard to identify just what didn't work. The plot about various factions of humans who end up stranded on an alien world is an intriguing one. How those various cultures have survived, i.e. Islamic, scientist, and \\"comnee\\" or specially designed humans, and interacted with each other and the alien ChaMeech seems like it would make for compelling reading. There are a number of interesting and sympathetic characters such as Zayn, Ammi, Loy, Jerzo, the Sibyl, etc. Yet as much as I cared about them, the story just dragged along.<br />One of the reasons things dragged was the split story. The reader follows two main groups of people as they both race to locate Jerzo Khan, a potential ruler in exile. Along the way the two groups occasionally interact but they are kept so conveniently seperated that it's hard to generate much conflict to drive the story. The one group is hoping to stop (they think) a deadly assassin and yet as we follow the assassin's tale, you realize that he isn't this bad person after all. You know he'll never kill the Khan, so the worries of the other group seem trival. <br />The plot is further stewed by the arrival of the alien ChaMeech who add more complications to the plot but never any real danger. They supposedly slaughtered a whole community of humans ages ago hich everyone knows about and resents, yet the characters are so noble they never have any doubts about hooking up with the aliens to hammer out their difference. Admirable? Certainly. Interesting? Not so much.<br />Ultimately the lack of real danger for most of the characters makes for boring reading. And the fact that they were almost all too good and noble for them to be interesting either. The crazy sorcererdoesn't seem to serve any purpose. He's sort of 'bad' without any motivations. I was also troubled by the haphazard feminist message that was once in a while tacked onto the plot. The culture Zayn was raised in is a patriarchal one, the woman kept secluded for the most part or relagated to minor roles, yet he doesn't have any problem with being the Spirit Rider's servant - I find that hard to believe. I find it also hard to believe that the Khanate would be so tolerant of the Tribes and their ways, yet they are.  The reason the crazy sorcerer is 'bad' is because he not only does he attract followers and lead them on with false hopes for the future, he also rapes little girls too. At the beginning of the book there is a flashback to a woman saying the horses are freedom, a point that is dropped for the next 500 + pages, only to reappear at the very end as a point that the horses had made the women of the Comnee free. What!? I'd buy it if that had played a significant role in the story, but it doesn't really, so why was it included in the first place? As with the plot, potential cultutal conflicts ripe for drama end up coming to nothing.<br />So why, you're probably asking yourself, did I finish it? Mostly because I was intrigued by Zayn. He had actually done some bad things and in a way was trying to find himself, or maybe reinvent himself is a better desscription. The other stories felt incidental to his journey of self-discovery. He was the character with the most hang-ups, the most past, the most problems, therefore his story was worth readng about. An extremely flawed novel that could have been much, much more.	2003-05-05
US	51815624	R2QDS5TH30LDN8	1892065738	779466904	Blood And Ivory: A Tapestry	Books	3	40	40	N	N	Blood and Ivory: A Curiosity	If your reading this review, you probably want to know, should I buy Blood and Ivory? I guess it depends on how you feel about Hodgell's writing and her amazing heroine Jame. If you're a fan and a completist you'll want to own this no matter what. Even if the quality of the stories is uneven, you'll want to support P.C. Hodgell's writing by buying her work. If you're a casual reader looking for a quick introduction to the Kencyrth and Jame, I suggest you immediately purchase Dark of the Gods and Seeker's Mask instead because these short stories don't do her justice.<br />\\"Hearts of Woven Shadow\\", \\"Lost Knots\\" and \\"Among the Dead\\" are the new, never been published stories and they fill in some gaps in the Story So Far. HoWS and AtD are the best of the new collection. In the first we meet Ganth and find out how he became the Highlord and the terrible price he paid. He's a much talked about figure in the books but is seldom seen, so it was very interesting to read about events in his early life. AtD fleshes out the sketchy childhood picture of Jame and Tori's youth in the shadowlands, as well as the progression of Ganth's madness. I liked this less since I felt much of what Jame's childhood was like had been sufficiently hinted at in the novels. Still, it makes concrete several things about Jame that were implied before. LK is more a bridge between the two stories than a story in itself. Not even three whole pages, it doesn't add much except again, to make explicit what has already been implied.<br />Next comes \\"Child of Darkness\\" which is a look at a prototype Jame before Hodgell got a handle on her character and how she wanted to set the tale. While it wasn't particularly compelling as a stand alone story, it was fascinating to see how important elements such as Jame's claws and The Book Bound In Pale Leather are embedded like lost gems in this embryonic piece of writing. \\"A Matter of Honor\\" provides similar interest. This is Jame's tale much closer to how it is realized in Godstalk. Hodgell's writing is vastly improved from CoD, and you can see how Godstalk grew, in slightly changed form, from this short story. Again, the interest here  is to trace the evolution of what eventually becomes part of a full-blown novel rather than the story itself.<br />This collection also includes \\"Bones\\" which is about Penari's Maze, the labyrinth that plays a prominent role in Godstalk. A decent story, but it can also be found in Dark of the Gods. \\"Stranger Blood\\" is perhaps the most interesting of the lot, since it is the only one set after the events of all the published novels. Everything else is either back-story, or concurrent with timeline so far. For the people interested in what happens next, SB is a tantalizing tidbit set after Seeker's Mask and the presumed fourth novel, Jame Goes to the Citadel.  Again, a good story but nothing earth-shattering is (unfortunately) revealed.<br />The last story, \\"Ballad of the White Plague\\" is a Sherlock Holmes story incorporating vampirism. It's been a few years since I read any Doyle, but her style seems fairly accurate. What's fascinating is that even in a non-Jame story she consciously, or unconsciously, incorporates similar themes from her Kencyr novels. Here Watson discovers Holmes has rather sinister blood-ties, echoing the less-than-savory family that is Jame's. Hodgell also makes good visual use of Holmes' ancestor's portraits, again, echoing the tapestries that permeate the Kencyrth novels.  And what is vampirism other than eternal life at the cost of another's?  Doesn't that aptly describe Gerridon and his lot, who live on indefinitely, drinking the souls of the Kencyr?<br />In addition the book contains 8 maps, most of which I believe have been included in the novels already published and some artwork that P.C. Hodgell has done over the years. The sketches don't really add any value to what's been already written - Hodgell has a very rigid and stylized approach - and are included here moreI suspect for curiosity sake's and page filler than any intrinsic merit. All in all, Blood and Ivory is an uneven effort which is best read not so much for the actual stories, as for the insights they provide into the thought processes of a much-loved author, P.C. Hodgell.	2002-12-16
US	51815624	R39JENHGCOC462	0399237968	249940838	Water: Tales of Elemental Spirits	Books	1	45	65	N	N	Damarian Disappointment	If you are thinking of reading this because you want to read new stories by Peter Dickinson, be my guest. If you want to read this because you've heard that there is a new story about Damar, or you love McKinley's writing don't get your hopes up. This collection is flawed with any number of problems, the two largest being -<br />Problem number one: Peter Dickinson. I've never read any of his novels but from the short stories I read here, I won't be buying anything by him anytime soon. Boring, plain and simple. Assessment: Taking up valuable space that should feature McKinley.<br />Problem number two: McKinley is a very gifted writer, her Damarian books are among my all time favorites because she knows how to use language and she creates compelling,action-oriented female protagonists who get to have their fairy-tale wishes come true and have some adventure too. Aerin and Harry are both troubled girls, partly because of who they are. They both go on journeys of self-discovery where they rely on themselves (with a little help from their friends) and conquer their fears as well as their enemies. And that is why her last story, A Pool In the Desert is such a disappointment.<br />We have a down-trodden daughter Hetta, in a patriarchal household who is being suffocated by her souless existence of cleaning house, taking care of her mother and giving up everything she wants in deference to her father. In a classic McKinley tale, the daughter would discover that she needs to do something, would screw up her courage and take some action to make things better, preferably by getting herself a good horse and a magical sword. Instead she drifts around, passively accepting until she has a dream where she somehow ends up in Damar. Discovering this wonderful escape she longs to return, but isn't able to summon up the resources to do much about it. <br />So basically she moons after this guardian she meets and mopes around until she manages to fall head first into a pool of water, ismagically transported to Damar (back in time, too)and lives happily ever after. <br />McKinley's newest Damar story basically betrays the wonderful and strong heroines of her past novels and for that there can be no excuse. Hetta is pathetic. She escapes yes, but she doesn't confront her circumstances, actively seek a way out or seem to worry at all about the fate she abandons her younger sister Ruth to. She is the apothesis of everything McKinley's previous heriones have stood for and I can't understand why she chose to write this lackluster, heretical story set in, of all places, her beloved Damar.<br />The only partially redeeming thing about the story was the twist at the very end, which I won't give away for future readers, as to how her sister discovers that Hetta achieved her escape. The rest of McKinley's stories rate equally low on the disappointment scale in that I didn't care an iota for any one of the characters and was bored.<br />Assessment: Strictly for hardcore McKinley fans who must read everything she's written.	2002-10-07
US	51815624	R1P2MQNL6Q7LYZ	0380974908	25473859	The Isle of Battle: Book Two of the Swans' War	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Book 1= River; Book 2=Swamp. River Good; Swamp Bad	I really enjoyed Russell's opening book in the Swan's War Trilogy, The One Kingdom. It had a meandering pace that paralled his water and river themes with action coming fast and unexpected like rapids, or twisting through a quiet backwater and reveling some interesting character developments. If book 1 is about the magical River Wynnd, then unfortunately book 2 is all about a swamp, the aptly named Stillwater. And just like a stagnanting swamp his plot goes nowhere, his character development is as stunted as the trees and you are left thinking did I really need to spend 400+ pages slogging through this morass?<br />For all that the plot basically goes nowhere, the book does read suprisingly fast. Quick shifts to multiple story lines and short chapters disguise the basic dearth of plot. His language and descriptions are first rate and manage to carry you, if not the plot, along. Still, characters so well drawn in Book 1, particularly the Valemen and Alaan, phone in their performances here. Russell basically appears unable to juggle his growing cast of interesting characters and rather then give a few top billing, gives everyone short shrift. Which is sad because I think Russell is one of the few original fantasty writers working today. Perhaps his biggest problem is he's always been a two-book writer. Having to expand his story into three may be why number two feels as if it's just a placeholder. Let's hope the third book crawls out of the swamp and moves on to, oh, let's say an ocean. Deep, vast, mysterious and mercurial. I'd like book 3 to be like an ocean. Here's hoping Russell is listening.	2002-10-04
US	51815624	R2169TBR0OU6W4	0064471837	962868136	Sabriel (Old Kingdom)	Books	3	13	18	N	N	What's All the Fuss?	Right, here it goes then. I'm a big fantasy lover and think there is a lot of great fantasy being produced for the Teen/Young Adult market and I've seen tons of press about how wonderful Sabriel is so I decided to give it a try. And it was...ok. I didn't think it was awful but on the otherhand I could recommend a stack of other novels that I enjoyed much more than this. For one it failed my 're-readability' test because the characters and the story where simply not interesting enough to warrant a second go around. There has to be enough depth to the characters and remaining mystery or ambiguity to make me go back and re-read. Really good books will reveal something new everytime. It also fails my 'gotta read something else by this author/sequel' test in that Garth Nix's writing is competent, but not compelling. His writing and descriptions are workmen like, keeping the plot moving, but there are no brillant passages of description that truly convey the horror of the land of the Dead or probe the awesome power and responsibility Sabriel must feel ringing one of her necromancer's bells.<br />I am mostly disappointed by the fact that Nix has come up with an interesting twist on necromancy and a wonderful new way to work magic (the bells) but hasn't really done anything with them. It was as if having the idea was enough but he couldn't be bothered to flesh out the complexities or history behind them. There are other intriguing ideas such as the Charter Magic, but you never find out how it works or what it's purpose is. Extremely frustrating! I'm not saying he has to spell out everything, but it's a shame to let it a great concept die unexplored. Another thing that bothered me was how did two such opposite lands develop in the same world? One uses magic exclusively while the other has both technology and magic?? Again, Nix presents the idea but never illuminates it. Mostly I was suprised that at the end of reading so long a book (with rather large type)I didn't feel as if I really had read all that much that was all that great.<br />I can't say I recommend this book whole-heartly although if you want to check it out your time won't totally be wasted. ...f I really had read all that much that was all that great.<br />I can't say I recommend this book whole-heartly although if you want to check it out your time won't totally be wasted. ...	2002-07-18
US	51815624	RVHALL7JXI213	0345347633	165652185	Deryni Rising (Chronicles of the Deryni, No 1)	Books	4	35	35	N	N	A Rising Star	If you haven't discovered Katherine Kurtz's now epic saga of the Deryni, then you're missing out on one of the best fantasy series out there. Deryni Rising is the first book in the series and the first novel for Katherine Kurtz, and while I still recommend this vociferously, I have to admit that on re-reading the writing style is still in its formative stages and the overall tone and plot aren't...perfect. But the strengths are there and you'll be quickly pulled into her alternative Medieval European world, mostly by the fact that her alternative world is basically exactly like reading exciting history, except there are those select few blessed (or cursed) with magical abilities, aka the Deryni.<br />While nowdays alternative historial fanatasies fill the genre, Kurtz's was among the first and still the best. Trained as a historian, she gets things right. From the latin phrases, the heraldic elements to the powerful and not always benign church, you'll believe you're simply reading about the medieval ages as it should have been, complete with powerful but persecuted magical practioners. She's basically said, so what if magic was real..? And run with it<br />This opening novel introduces the main characters, Kelson a young boy-king trying to come to terms with both his temporal and magical powers, as well as his staunch allies, Alaric Morgan, a powerful Duke and a feared sorcerer and Morgan's cousin Duncan Mclain, a priest and also secretly Deryni. Kelson's kingdom, Gwynedd is beset with internal political maneuvers as well as magical threats from other Deryni kingdoms. There is plenty of intrigue, as well as her interesting take on the magical systems of the Deryni. The fact that to be known as a Deryni is practically a death sentence, let alone to use those powers openly, places Kelson and his friends in a precarious position trying to maintain their hold on the kingdom.<br />Basically I fell in love with the medieval setting and the amazingly well drawn characters. Although Kelson isn't as compelling, mostly because of his youth (and how refreshing to actually read about a teenage character that doesn't act and think like he's thirty!) but if you follow the series he definately matures in books that follow (The Bisop's Heir, The King's Justice and The Quest for St. Camber). This trilogy is really more about Morgan and Duncan which is fine because they are both worthy characters. Morgan is the barely tolerated Duke of Corwyn, known to be a sorcerer and the King's Champion, yet he is hampered in his efforts to help Kelson against his Deryni enemies and his very Deryniness threatens the King's standing among his fearful human nobles. Duncan is a Deryni priest when no Deryni are admitted to the priesthood because of their 'evil' powers. Needless to say the conflict between the church and the magical Deryni plays a major role in the milieu of Gwynedd. Although Kurtz's view of the church is harsh (foaming at the mouth fanatics, powerful men who use their priestly offices for personal gain, hatred, bigotry and prejudice) it is also realistic. She balances the negative with Mclain and others whose behavior and beliefs contradict the fanatics and shows what a very real and everyday part religion would have played in such a society.<br />All in all a really great book that sets the stage for the ones to follow. Unlike some more contemporary authors (Kate Elliot springs to mind) who have mined medieval settings for their epics, no one compares with Katherin Kurtz for realism. And she doesn't use her knowledge of history to show off fancy or obscure details since the information forms, as it should, a strong and compelling background that supports, but never overshadows, the characters and story.	2002-07-17
US	51815624	R1XMBV93AG1L6D	0441009166	27938824	Dragon Bones (The Hurog Duology, Book 1)	Books	4	122	125	N	N	Oh No!  Another Dragon Book? Yes, But It's Good.	This is my third Patricia Briggs novel and all the things she has done so well - interesting and sympathetic characters, a fast-moving story that doesn't need 500+ pages to get started, let alone finish a story, and new territory every outing - were all in Dragon Bones. The two central characters definately carry the story. Ward is an honorable man making do under trying circumstances that include the death of his tyrannical father, an ancient curse, a family ghost and some rather twisted political manovering. He deals with all this while attempting to preserve his land and family. The other standout, Oleg, is the family ghost/wizard/bastard cousin/?  and if you thought Ward had problems wait til you hear Oleg's. Briggs' characters always draw you into the story, so that even if the plot isn't perfect you are willing to overlook it to find out what happens to your favorite characters.<br />Another thing I enjoy about Patricia Briggs' books is her sense of humor. The chapters all have headers of rather wry observations by Ward that add nice commentary to the story that follows. Or take Ward's horse. Ward decides to rename his father's vicious battle stallion from Stygian to Pansy and then enjoys using it to confound his uncle's attempts to have the horse put down -how can he be a frightful beast? His name is Pansy = ) I enjoy little touchs of the absurd like that.<br />The quest to restore Ward's birthright forms the bulk of the story and many, though not all, of the secrets that are hinted at are resolved. Fortunately for us the sequel, Dragons Blood, is scheduled for publication in 2003 and will hopefully provide us with another enjoyable story as well as clearing up some lingering questions. I recommend Patricia Briggs' Dragon Bones and her other works (When Demons Walk, Hobb's Bargain) and I think she should definately get more recognition. There aren't a lot of fantasy writers out there today who are willing to write good, short novels that don't rely on the reader investing huge sums of cash or time to slog through 12 volumes at 600 pages each. Not everyone has to write (nor read) the Grand Epic. I for one enjoy a refreshing sip of a light wine before my heavy meal.	2002-06-12
US	51815624	R1FLFSVMCONC97	044100895X	937988765	Ombria in Shadow	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A return to the best of Mckillip	Patricia Mckillip's best prose returns as she renders this tale of an ancient city teetering between present and past in a rich and satisfying read. She draws you in with her wonderfully rendered language and holds you throughout with this story of tavern-keeper's daughters, ancient sorceresss, bastard princes, amoral tutors and scheming nobles as they via to bring their vision of the city of Ombria from off the pages of history and fairy tale to waking life. Sound like any number of stereotypical fantasy conventions? Think again. Patricia Mckillip is never anything less than original, even when borrowing the trappings of convential fantasy.<br />While each person is interesting the city itself is another character, one afflicted with duel personalities, and Mckillip renders its odd corners, endless layers and hidden depths much as she would another person.  The essential mystery is whether Ombria is two cities, one identity dominant while the other lies dormant. The conflict between the two halves of the city is mirrored in the opposing forces of the two sorceress, Dominia Pearl, regent to a powerless boy-prince (and a pirate to boot!)who is determined to bring the shadow city to life for her gain. Faey, a power so old she has forgetten more than any remember goes her own way in the hidden undercity of Ombria, sending her \\"waxling\\" Mag into the world to fetch her needs. Only when Mag decides to meddle in the affairs of the Black Pearl and join with those opposing her is Faey moved to act.<br />Mckillip's tale winds through secret passages in the castle, between the covers of old children's tales and in the sketches of the bastard painter Ducon as the stuggle for power and possession of the city unfolds. Only through unlocking the mysteries of their own shadowy pasts will Mag and Ducon hope to tip the balance of Ombria to the side of light. The end, when it comes is a bittersweet one, for both the characters and the reader. A thoroughly engrossing tale.	2002-05-09
US	51815624	R14A1FGPIQA8CZ	0345435273	192644371	A Caress of Twilight (Meredith Gentry, Book 2)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Houston... We have a plot!	Okay, it isn't a big plot or an even terribly interesting plot, but at least there is a reason for the story to exist other than for Laurell K. Hamilton to prove she should be writing screenplays (do they have screenplays?) for porn films. <br />Merry and Co. are enlisted by an exiled Seelie court fairie turned movie actress who is so desperate to have a child she risks her life and the wrath of the Seelie court King. It is a situation pregnant with possibilities as Merry herself is also desperate to have a child and win the Unseelie throne from her evil aunt, the Queen of Air and Darkness. Unfortunately the delicious ironies such parallel stories might suggest go wasted in this lightweight plot.<br />A short book in total page length, it is also short on plot and action. Basically you could probably skip the second book and move right on to the third (whenever that may be) since number two does little to advance the overall story arc other than some revelations about Kitto and some more magic for Merry. Where is the conflict that drives the narrative? Merry's chief foe, Cel, is conveniently locked away and his partisans only have small roles, all off-stage. The evil whirlwind of lost fairie magic, good and bad, that has been unleashed is supposed to be frightening but it just felt like another routine thing for them to defeat. And Merry borrows a page from Anita when she decides that it isn't enough to save her own skin, but that the men of her guard need her protection as well. Although on the whole I dislike this conceit I admit I thought the scene with Frost that prompts this was rather affecting.<br />On the upside it is short on the meaningless sex-scene filler that marred A Kiss of Shadows - hurrah! And frankly Merry is a much more appealing protagonist than Anita. Anita may be the more complex character, but her angsty whining was annoying. Merry is more self-aware of who she is and what it means to  be a fairie princess. While not yet in a position of power, she is gaining not only in magical gifts but in political astuteness. By taking charge of her guard and the dealing with the consequences she is setting herself up to seize the power she will need to rule. Anita, never comfortable with her powers and roles of leadership (see the werewolves and pards)suffers by comparision. Merry has a lot of potential, as does this series but Hamilton seems intent on churning out meager plots and endless descriptions of clothing, hair and assorted accessories. Longtime fans of Hamilton, of whichever series will probably enjoy this story. A little something to tide them over until the next installment.	2002-05-07
US	51815624	R1BJV1ZJVNG8A0	0886778778	790232584	The Morgaine Saga (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	61	61	N	N	Unforgettable Mythic Fantasy	These books have shot to the top of my all-time favorite books list because of Cherryh's wonderfully controlled and spare writing style, her complex and interesting characters and a story  that has all the grandeur and tragedy of myth. I remember seeing these books many years ago and shying away from them. Morgaine, the main character seemed too much like a cliche of the female sword and sorcery genre (perhaps it was the cover art) and so I passed these by. I'm only sorry that I waited so long to find these wonderful stories, whose characters, good and bad are so compelling you want to reread whatever has been written about them again and again. Not to mention, like all classics, the story never gets old. Each rereading revels a nuance that I missed before and thus every time I've gone back for another drink at the well, I've been amply rewarded with new insights as well as the joy of visiting an old friend.<br />In three short, fast-paced novels (Gate of Ivrel, Well of Shiuan and The Fires of Azeroth) we meet the principal characters, Morgaine, a dreaded figure out of legend whose sole mission is to close and destroy world- and time-spanning gates and who will stop at nothing to achieve her goal. She is neither human nor qhal and her origins remain shrouded in mystery. Nothing about her is soft or feminine. Her goal is noble but the means she uses to achieve it are horrible. She wields her gate-sword Changeling much as she wields whatever people are convenient, ruthlessly and without mercy to the purpose that she serves.<br />Nhi Vanye is a bastard, an outcast warrior, and kin-slayer whose path accidently crosses Morgaine. Swept unwilling into her service he becomes her liegeman, bound to do her bidding while fighting to preserve his personal honor. He knows that he is simply an means to end with her, and that she will sacrifice him without hesitation. Yet whatever her crimes, past and present, Vanye finds with her a place and purpose that he could never find within his family. No matter how terrible the price may be.<br />Interwoven through all these stories run tangled themes of honor, duty, and trust, family, good, evil, right and wrong and every shade of grey in-between. Morgaine does murder, betrayal and worse yet her purpose is good. Her qhalur nemesis through the books has undeniably done evil, yet in the end it is possible he will be redeemed. Cherryh wastes no words, action compelling the narrative at an often times dizzying pace. The reader is kept waiting and watchful for whatever scraps of dialogue or insight that is doled out. The many mysteries that surround Morgaine are only obliquely hinted and thus careful reading and rereading are rewarded. <br />Although on each world Morgaine's and Vanye's purpose remains the same, each novel explores a uniquely different world, from doomed, drowning Shiua to fair and prosperous Azeroth. All the people, human and qhal are memerorable and distinct characters, fair or foul. In all cases we see the careful unfolding of Morgaine's and Vanye's relantionship, the strength of which just might see them through to the end of their mission and the ultimate gate itself. When they eventually ride through Azeroth Gate, leaving behind Morgaine's enemy and Vanye's cousin, your sorrow will be tempered with joy since you know that their adventures yet continue on into Exile's Gate and that your final farewells will thus be delayed a little while longer.	2002-03-28
US	51815624	RQZZB9P4U5MMZ	0440920728	917261227	Dogsbody	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An Enjoyable Fantasy - With Dogs!	As a fantasy loving child I somehow overlooked Diana Wynne Jones and as an adult and I have been slowly trying to rectify that. I recently read Dogsbody, intrigued because I am interested in astronomy and a dog lover. The story of the dog star, Sirius falsely accused and sent to earth in dog form to try to save himself sounded appealing and on the whole it was an enjoyable story, although I would hesitate to call it a classic.<br />While the story of an unwanted puppy who is rescued by an equally unwanted little girl could easily have descended into smaltz, Jones, deft writer that she is, manages to sidestep that with a certain matter-of-factness about their shared circumstances. Her characterizations of the inner lives of dogs and cats will ring true with anyone who is an animal lover. Their mannerisms, personalities and cleverness are just what we always suspected in our pets! I also enjoyed the appearance by the Master of the Hunt and his unearthly hounds - a little Celtic mythology to give the story some depth.<br />On the otherhand, I was also disappointed with the rather weak mystery that drives the plot. Obviously Sirius needs to find the Zoi but I never felt as if Jones did a very good job of describing what it was, or giving a very good idea of its power. The involvement of his companion in his predicament is also not very well explained. We know what her role was, but we never get a sense of why. And while Sirius' quest to find the Zoi is filled with interesting incidents and people, Mrs. Smith for example, as a mystery it just didn't hold up very well. I also wanted to know more about the luminaries and how they came to be but we only get the barest glimpse of their society and powers.<br />While I personally think that a little more detail and background would have made a better story, maybe Jones, just by coloring in the barest outline and freeing the reader's imagination to fill in the rest achieved exactly the kind of story she thought readers would want. Judging by the enthusiastic reviews posted here a lot of other readers agree. I am happy to be able to recommend it as well to kids and adults alike. Enjoy!	2002-03-22
US	51815624	R20V8V46KC662E	0743411412	467619413	Safe House (1-800-where-r-you)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Lame Plot, Sloppy Writing	I had moderately high hopes for this series and definately enjoyed the previous two books (When Lightning Strikes and Code Name Cassendra), however this book is a disappointment. The first third of the book basically rehashes everything we already know, while ruining Jess' tomboy image. Suddenly she is wearing mini-skirts and sweater-sets. Yuck. And although she is still throwing punches I mourned Jess' transformation into some sort of girl that cared about what she wore, especially since it seemed aimed at getting guys.<br />The plot was pretty lame. A girl from her school is found murdered and subsequent classmates go missing. Can Jess use her powers to find them? You'll spot the villian a mile away and the time you spend waiting for Jess to figure it out will bore you. Where the first two books had a twist to the situation, such as Sean was missing but didn't want to be found for very good reasons, this is a straight forward, afterschool-special type scenario. I also have to point out that Espirit clothing was fashionable when I was a kid, like 15 years ago, and some of her other expressions are equally dated. 'Cherried out\\", \\"mint\\", etc. are old, (one hesitates to say old-fashioned) and at one point she used the word \\"propers\\". No, no, no! It's \\"props\\"! This is an area that could use some work.<br />There are also some sloppy writing errors having to do with continuity from the previous books that probably aren't the worst things to have happened but they bothered me and that affected my overall enjoyment of the book. Do Ruth and Jess practice in their bedrooms or the living room? Does Rob wear a jean jacket, a leather jacket or a jean jacket? I realize that Carroll is trying to juggle multiple series here but it isn't exactly like she's writing War and Peace either.<br />If you've read the other books in the 1-800-WHERE-R-U series you'll probably want to read this one anyway as there are major developments in the larger plot arc of the series, such as: will thenew dimensions of Jess'powers help her or hurt her? Will her mom find out about Rob? Will the nefarious FBI duo of Johnson and Smith finally trick her into working for them? You'll have to read the book to find out. Still, if you're new to the series start with the first book and go in order. And please Jenny, if you decide to write a fourth installment, turn off the writing auto-pilot.	2002-03-22
US	51815624	R2O71X04XVY02X	0385336004	587637152	Dialogues of the Dead	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Too Clever For Its Own Good	Normally I love each of the books in the Dalziel and Pascoe series. They usually have everything you could want in a good mystery - interesting main characters who grow throughout each novel, a suprising and logical conclusion to the mystery itself and a gripping story to tide you over along the way. Unfortunately I'd have to say this is the weakest entry in a very deep series. Dialogues of the Dead ends up abandoning the hallmarks that have made previous stories stong in favor of a conceit, i.e. the murderer is a word game fanatic. The reader is then challenged, as are Dalziel, Pascoe, etc., to sift through the clues the author has provided and try to discover the identity of the murderer. <br />Sounds good right? I thought so to until I picked it up and started reading. Maybe it would have come off better if I hadn't already guessed who the murderer was just from reading the synposis of the book!  (And I make no claim to being particularly good at puzzles so if I could solve it...) Who needs to plow through 300+ pages to discover something they already know? Besides the fact the murderer is easily guessed, the other characters that Hill tries to trick you with are too obvious to be credible. The ending was a cop out as far as I was concerned, leaving the characters in the dark but allowing the reader to know the true identity of the murderer. I also thought that the motivations of the murderer didn't seem to really make sense given their portrayal in the book. <br />A good idea badly executed. Skip this installment and wait for Death's Jest Book, the next (and one can hope) better installment.	2002-03-04
US	51815624	R17560SVO975UG	0609808656	269597282	Chained: A Sam Jones Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Sam Rattles A Few Chains	Take-no-prisoners Sam Jones, sculptress and sleuth returns in her  latest misadventure, Chained. Sam is not your average heroine, giving as good as she gets, whether it is with prima donna boyfriend Hugo or miscreant, low-life animal rights kidnappers. A sassy, tough, riot-grrl for the art set, she tends to wander straight into whatever crime might be happening in her vicinity. Usually it's murder. Relying more on her determined attitude and luck than any great intellectual or problem-solving skills, nevertheless her adventures are usually hilarious, spiced up with views of the seamier side of the art/theater world. <br />This time Sam is working in a tv production with her boyfriend Hugo. When she is mistakenly kidnapped for an actress on the set who she happens to resemble the plot swings into motion. Unfortunately for the would-be kidnappers, they didn't realize just what they were getting into. Sam, determined to free herself and figure out just what is going on, drags the reader into the close-knit world of hunt sabbetours and tv productions. Along the way Henderson fills in with a realistically drawn cast and crew. It would have been easy for her to make the secondary characters little more than carictures, but she manages to make them interesting without being teeth-achingly quirky. Although perhaps the percentage of vegans and animal rights activists is slighly high. A throw away murder and an, \\"Oh, *he's* the villian!\\" feeling at the end mar the story but it still is an enjoyable read.<br />A word of caution, however. Fans of tradional mysteries where the author sprinkles abundant clues throughout and challenges the reader's puzzle-solving skills will be disappointed. As will those hoping for a lap dog of the British cozy variety. The Sam Jones mysteries are more than a little like a pit bull, stalking through the back alleys of London's seedier streets. They are less concerned with a tightly executed plotlines or clever clues than they are about chronicling the sassy and independent Sam, who drinks, drugs and copulates copiously. Despite her party-hard lifestyle, Sam is a genuinely interesting character, not without flaws, but also not without her redeeming virtues. If girls with attitude appeal to you, you won't want to miss Chained or any of the other Sam Jones mysteries(Black Rubber Dress, Freeze My Margerita, The Strawberry Tattoo).	2002-03-01
US	51815624	RX17L1C5R1J18	1892065037	904953442	I Dare (Liaden Universe Novel Series)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Satisfying Conclusion - Next Please!	While not as strong as some of their other work, I Dare provides a satisfying end to the Agent of Change sequence (read Partners In Necessity and Plan B to bring yourself up to speed). Breakneck pacing and multiple plot lines abound which Lee and Miller almost bring off. I Dare felt like it could have easily used 200 more pages to fully flesh out all the details. Perhaps because Pat Rin finally gets his own plot line (and the majority of the pages) other Clan members and assorted allies get somewhat short shrift, but you'll be ok with that because Pat Rin proves to be something other than the &quot;lesser&quot; of Korval. Plus, his story will set up what hopefully, will prove to be the next set of Liaden Universe adventures (hint, hint, Meisha Merlin).<br />In addition to the reapprearance of all your favorite characters, including the family tree, some black sheep relatives show up to join the non-stop party that is Korval. Some old family retainers will revel suprising resources, Aunt Kareen gets left out in the cold, and a centuries-old burden will finally be lifted. But Will the peril of the Passengers be averted? Will the Department of the Interior's mutiny succeed? You'll have to read I Dare to find out.<br />If there are a few too many convenient life-matings, and if toward the end as the story is racing to bring everyone (and everything) together the storyline starts to slip a little out of control...well. The series' strong suits more than overshadow a few nit-picking comments. Filled with wonderfully realized  characters, witty dialogue, honor, high adventure and constant peril, it'll be the best book you'll read all year. And since the Clan increases, perhaps can even be said to prosper, and since the last page has yet another crisis for Delm Korval to solve... you can rest easy knowing that more madcap adventures can't be far behind. If you haven't read, or more importantly purchased, all of the Liaden books yet I can only ask, &quot;what are you waitingfor?!&quot;	2002-02-26
US	51815624	R2UMMHCUX47SHU	0743411390	549642303	When Lightning Strikes (1-800-Where-R-You)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Cut Above...	...typical series aimed at teens. Jess Mastriani is the flawed but likeable teenaged heroine in When Lightning Strikes. A motorcycle-loving tomboy, Jess develops an unexpected 'gift' - the ability to find missing children after seeing their picture. How she copes with this ability which on the surface seems totally harmless forms the story of this book. When her gift ruins the lives of two people and threatens to harm her family, Jess is forced to rexamine whether just because she can find kids, she should.<br />In an effort to fix her mistakes and protect her family, we met her friend Ruth, her Danish-eating guidance counselor,a kid on the lam, a few Hell's Angels, plus the back row of the W's, guys she spends time in detention with. When her ability attracts unwanted interest from the government it adds an X-Files like conspiracy subplot that puts in the story into high gear. Plenty of humor and with lots of adventure, there is still a lot about Jess we don't know that will hopefully be explored in her further adventures. I also recommend Code Name Cassandra, book 2 and am eagerly awaiting publication of the third, Safe House.	2002-01-25
US	51815624	R3D1ABZMZXNAMB	0743411404	122451940	Code Name Cassandra (1-800-where-r-you)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Pleasantly Suprising	I started with the Mediator books and liked them well enough to try Jenny Carroll's other paranormal series, 1-800-Where-R-You and was pleasantly suprised to discover that I liked them better, maybe because Jess appeals to me more. Gifted with unwanted psychic abilities, something of a tom-boy with \\"anger-management\\" issues, she seemed much more believable than Suze the mediator.<br />Certainly not great literature, but Code Named Cassandra offers a fast-paced story, appealing characters and humor. Trying to lie low Jessica takes a job as a counselor for gifted child musicians. Unfortunately no one who knows who \\"lightening girl\\" is wants to leave her alone. Hounded by incompetent FBI agents and  a desperate father looking for his daughter, Jess is just trying to survive a cabin full of bratty boy campers and maybe get her sort-of-not boyfriend Rob to call her. A fun, fast-paced book to pass a winter day.	2002-01-22
US	51815624	R19961DRIF0BPY	0425181685	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	2	48	63	N	N	Ick! I need a bath...	As a long-time Anita Blake fan I've hung in while this series has headed down-hill and with Narcissus in Chains I think Hamilton has finally hit rock bottom (if she has, then the only place to go is up, right?) We can only hope. I've felt the quality of the entire series has degenerated, not because I didn't like Jean Claude, or didn't like Richard, but because the foundations of the series have eroded. Like plot. This entry has zero plot. Admittedly the previous books tended to rely on the formula of Anita and/or her friends, allies, lovers, etc. being threatend and Anita saving the day,  but it was something. I also am tired of the endless and boring descriptions of clothing and personal appearance which more and more take the place of solid character development. I remember previous characters more by their penchant for short-shorts then whether they've contributed anything meaningful to the story.<br />I was also bothered by the endless and pointless sex. The Anita Blake series has always been highly sexual but when barely three pages go by and Anita is naked or having sex with a complete stranger it just gets old. I'm fine with it if it advances the plot or adds to the character's development or relantionship but this seemed like overkill. Filler in place of any real action or plot development. I was also bothered by the use of repetitive descriptions and phrases such as &quot;our beasts rolled through each other&quot; and frankly I thought there were several scenes borrowed from her Meredith Gentry series. The healing hand of flesh - or tongue if you will, makes a cross-over appearance. It all smacks of lazy writing on her part and I think her fans deserve a better effort.<br />In closing I won't say there wasn't anything good about the book.  Anita seems to have grown up a little bit, knows herself and has come to terms with a lot of things that had been bothering her. I enjoyed her character more since she seems to have left the whiney, self-pitying Anita behind. I was also glad to see the whole Richard issue finally resolved and there were some tender moments with Anita showing her softer side that worked well. I wished that Dolph's wife had called Anita, I want to read about that conversation. I wished Edward had shown up since any book without Edward in it is a little less interesting. I wished it had been a book worth reading.<br />Hopefully now that some lingering issues have been cleared up and the weakest book written the series is ready to get going again, full speeed ahead, with non-stop action, a wise-cracking Anita and more bad guys around the corner to slay.	2002-01-14
US	51815624	R10GRLUS3FEGXX	0756400082	857098729	Take a Thief (Valdemar)	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Better Than Expected!	A long-time Valdemar lover, I've lately been disappointed in the stories Lackey has been writing. I thought Brightly Burning was fairly horrible and in consequence I was not exactly looking forward to Take A Thief. I'm happy to report it was an enjoyable read but I don't think it ranks up there with the best of Valdemar novels.<br />I thought the idea of telling Skif's story was a good one. He's been a reliable second string character from the beginning and he has an intriguing past, ripe for a good story. While the story is interesting, it doesn't show much about life in the slums that we haven't already gleaned from previous novels. By all accounts, Skif got off fairly lightly, happening on a 'good' band of thieves led by an benevolent and legless ex-mercenary. I can't fault that too much, this is, after a fantasy, but a little more  realistic detail would have added a lot of texture. I did enjoy seeing the roots of Skif and Lord Orthellan's mutual disdain for each other but it added up to a thin premise to hang a story on.<br />My biggest complaint throughout was the lower classes' &quot;speech&quot; which frankly Lackey didn't do a very good job rendering. A minor point but when you think that almost the entire book concerns Skif living in the slums talking like that and living among those who do - it does invade the whole novel and make for an irritant. I also thought Alberich's speech patterns equally unconvincing and annoying.  I just re-read Arrows of the Queen and yes, his speech is slightly altered but not to the extent it is here.  Let's just hope Lackey can come up with a reasonable compromise before her new novel about Alberich comes out.<br />My last beef is Lackey's completely gratuitous mention of herself as Herald Myste, the Herald Chronicler. Get over yourself!  A mention and nothing more I might have forgiven as a wink to the reader but at almost a page's worth, and implying Myste has some sort of relationship with Alberich? YUCK. <br />I'm not alone in wondering if Lackey hasn't milked all she can out of Valdemar. This is was an enjoyable read but seems a long way from the earlier, more compelling novels of Valdemar. Oh, the writing has gotten more polished but the story just didn't catch me the way her others have. Maybe it is because I am a jaded veteran. An ok read but I won't be buying it to add to my Valdemar collection.	2001-12-26
US	51815624	R38BT62FCU0PDX	0312875827	667527293	Enchanter (The Wayfarer Redemption Trilogy, Bk 2)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Cut Above	Douglass' Enchanter is definately a stronger effort than her first book, Wayfarer's Redemption. I found this book on the whole more satisfying as well. The writing and plot and character development showed more maturity - maybe because all of the setup had been taken care of and we're can finally get down to business.<br />Enchanter clips along at a good pace and keeps the usual &quot;cast of thousands&quot; of fantasy epic to a manageable number, although if you haven't just finished WFR it might take you a couple of chapters to reconnect with all the characters. I liked that the expectations Douglass developed in the first book were often turned on their head, yet at the same time some of the changes of direction seemed forced. <br />The Icarii names she uses continue to grate as juvenile and lazy.  And a particular example of this  tendency became my pet peeve. Here you have this exotic race of magical creatures and she calls their bathing pool, &quot;The Chamber of Steaming Waters&quot;? Please, don't even bother if that is the best you can do. But I digress...<BR> <BR>Overall a cut above some of the fantasy out there, and I especially liked the storyline involving WolfStar, a powerful enchanter from the past who may just have turned up disguised as an intimate of Axis' camp and not necessarily there to help...I am especially looking forward to seeing how his role plays out.  Although Faraday seemed to be the heroine based on WFR, it is definately the mysterious Azhure who is coming into her own and the majority of the book really revolves around her. The ending will reveal some of Azhure's mystery but there is plenty of story left to make the conclusion of the trilogy something to look forward to.	2001-11-20
US	51815624	RVWJP71RG4C55	067003004X	149763335	The Blue Last: A Richard Jury Mystery	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Disappointing...	I usually like Martha Grimes' Richard Jury mysteries, even if the  mystery isn't all that involving, her odd-ball cast of characters is usually amusing to spend some time with. Unfortunately, The Blue Last was a disappointment. The writing was ho-hum, the plot non-existent.  There is an entire section devoted to a Melrose and Marshall Florentine trip, and while the reader will be more knowledgeable about the place of Massaccio in Renaissance art, it does nothing to advance the plot or story. Shame on the editor for allowing this ego-gratifying piece of writing to remain.<br />I am also by now getting tired with the endless procession of precocious children who seem to pop up with regularity. While most writer's don't give children enough credit for what they see and hear, Grimes always manages to take it over the top. Plus, the ever intelligent dog-companion makes an obligatory appearance. This is another worn out device of hers that could stand to go to the dust bin. <br />Fortunately we don't have to spend too much time on Jury's pathetic romantic relantionships with women in this outing (huzzah!) but a promising examination of Jury's war-time memories for no discernable reason ends up going no where, much like this  book. The book meandered but the ending came out of no where and made no sense, as if Grimes had suddenly woken up and said, &quot;Gotta wrap this one up!&quot;. Ultimately a hollow book, full of tired Grimes cliches and no substance. For the die-hard Jury fan only, and only from the library.	2001-10-17
US	51815624	R3VISVNQ4JY5VV	0689838840	55864534	Twenty-four Hours	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Ellis Does the Underworld	Margaret Mahy always turns out interesting and thought provoking young adult work, although with this particular outing she mostly eschews the magical overtones that characterize her earlier works (The Changeover, The Tricksters...). Basically, this looks at the life of Ellis, a good kid (going to college, trusted with his mom's car, etc.) and how he gets mixed up for 24 with kids his own age, but who are leading very different lives. Mahy does a good job of portraying these less fortunate kids in a realistic, unsentimental way. They often have harrowing stories to tell, yet their personal resilence and determination to make something of their lives is quietly inspiring. Ellis' journey is not so much about a 'good' kid having a quick taste of another side of life as it is about him stretching his personal horizens. He isn't just along for the ride, a cynical observer, but is actively caught up in helping his new-found friends overcome some of their pressing problems and is able to help them out of his own resourcefulness. It would be interesting to read a sequel and see how it all turns out, though if we can believe the crystal-ball wielding Fox, Ellis will indeed return to the Land-of-Smiles.	2001-09-24
US	51815624	R2JY7IY9E2P4K5	0670864552	222026862	The Other Side of Silence	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Inner and Outer Lives	Another fine book from Margaret Mahy dealing with the complex emotional lives of teens. Hero, the silent one, struggles to deal with her loving, but clueless family of geniuses. Mom is well-known author on childhood genius (based on her own children's lives), Dad is a stay at home mom, her older sister uses her gift for math and physics to wreck cars and her brother is a secret script writer for a steamy soap opera. Amid this chaos Hero lives two seperate lives, an inner life of fantasy adventures and outer life mostly defined by her voluntary decision not to speak, which puzzles and frustrates her family.<BR>A chance encounter with a mysterious neighbor lady at once expands Hero's scope for innocent fairy tales while at the same time forcing Hero to confront the darker side of the fantastical. As her curiosity takes her into the neighbor's own bizarre life she learns the awful consequences of living a fairy tale and the differences between voluntary and involuntary silence.<BR>Plenty of plot and not without touches of humor, Hero's quest to unite her innner and outer selves provides a thoughtful look at growing up and finding one's own voice in the world.	2001-09-24
US	51815624	R10D3EXZCF7LDA	0380979012	84144543	The Curse of Chalion	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Not Miles But Worth a Look	While I enjoyed this book it was certainly no Vorkosigan Saga, but then again, it shouldn't necessarily have to be. The story was interesting enough and the main character, Carazil was a nice variant on the reluctant hero. I can't find any direct link between Carazil and Miles except that both suffer from physical deformities (interestingly enough the back seems to be a popular location - Miles is twisted and hunchbacked - Carazil has the scars and adhesions of whippings). Nevertheless, Carazil is his own man. I liked him and rooted for him although a romance with a woman 15 years younger??? C'mon! I also thought that while Iselle was a strong female character, there really wasn't anything special about her. I've read dozens of fantasies with 'strong' female characters and frankly Iselle was a little to cookie-cutter for my taste. Too perfect. A good student, clever, not tempted by the flatterers, etc. Some flaws would have made her much more interesting. As for her world building, it was serviceable. A somewhat prototypical medieval world even if borrowing heavily from medieval Spain, still has its castle and hierarchy of power (I agree with a previous reviewer that the titles were unnecessarily complicated). What I did enjoy was her take on religion and magic in this world. The idea of a 'professional saint' was quite novel and fit well into the story. Bujold's writing is polished but I had trouble with some of her dialogue, the emphasis and accents seemed misplaced to my ear. This will doubtless improve as she continues to develop her characters. Overall a servicable work but nothing that will knock your socks off. A pleasant diversion for a rainy afternoon.	2001-09-17
US	51815624	RN5B9I9NDOU1O	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Diverting	I enjoyed reading Dead Until Dark. I liked Harris' twist on Sookie's mind-reading abilities and all the problems they cause her. I also liked the tounge-in-cheek humor. It was quickly paced, the characters were interesting and I wouldn't be at all suprised if this develops into a series. On the otherhand, Harris is treading over ground that has already been staked out (pun intended) by other, more successful authors - Laurell K. Hamilton and Tanya Huff - both of whose urban vampire books I have enjoyed. I couldn't help but notice that Dead Until Dark shared obvious parallels with both series, and is likely to fall into the same traps. There is the whole vampire boyfriend vs. werewolf(shapeshifter since Sam can choose) boyfriend triangle. This threesome in the Anita books has painted the plot into a corner which Hamilton has not always been successful in working her way out of. At least Sam and Bill are more civilized about their interest than Richard and Jean Claude. And again you had the three-way relationship with Vicky, Henry (the vamp) and Michael, who at least was human. I think it is the human versus supernatural worlds that make it interesting, so my biggest problem is where do you go with the story? Sookie already runs the risk of becoming a vampire herself with repeated blood drainings and donations. At the end she was changing appearance and gaining in strength, though admittedly she is something more than human with her mind reading. Still, part of what is interesting about Anita is her constant struggle to remain human (or at least not one of the monsters). When Vicky becomes a vampire, the series didn't have anywhere to go and just died. If Harris can keep Sookie anchored in the human world she should be ok. I also think she has to be careful to distinguish her other southern mystery series (Shakespeare) from these because reading about working-class, anti-social, mystery-solving, bad-boyfriend choosing Sookie was also a lot like reading about Lily Bardwithout the supernatural elements. If she can keep the tone light and interesting and avoid duplicating other's work I predict a successful series of new books.	2001-09-05
US	51815624	R3AKLSUULHPYJC	0441008135	331795325	The Hob's Bargain	Books	3	20	25	N	N	Pleasant Fantasy	Hobb's Bargain is a light, pleasant, but ultimately forgettable tale. A cleanser for your palate, if you will, before you take a deep drink of some doorstopper fantasy. It has a satisfyingly plucky heroine named Aren, a little action, a litle romance and some fey. I appreciated that Briggs borrowed some traditional Celtic fey, but didn't feel compelled to adhere slavishly to convention in how they looked or acted. The Hob was mysterious and had a sense of humor and his tail was definately his best feature! <br />Unfortunately his 'bargain' wasn't all that horrible or difficult . I also found the world -building and magical systems development adequate but nothing to write home about. Obviously in a short novel like this you can't expect the same depth as you might get in a 600 page one, still a little more thought and creativity would have gone a long ways towards improving the book. I was also confused on a few points, including what the whole deal was with Kith and the boodmages. As nasty villains go, the bloodmages were rather ho-hum,standard evil fare without any distinguishing features. <br />Despite all this, Briggs is short if nothing else, and her writing is certainly competent, which can't be said of everyone selling fantasy/sci-fi out there. For some reason Doranna Durgin came to mind when I was reading this, perhaps the mountain-community setting.  For the reviewers recommending War for the Oaks by Emma Bull, I highly second their opinion. Really interesting fey with an attitude and if you like the somewhat mischievous Hob, you'll love the phouka!	2001-07-31
US	51815624	R2YSHL2YACHXBI	0061052604	173162111	Hammerfall (Gene Wars)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	It Didn't Fail By All That Much...	I must confess I have a love-hate relationship with C.J. Cherryh. I either really like her books or I can't even get through them.  Favorites include the Morgaine Cycle, Faded Sun Trilogy, her Rusalka books, Cyteen, the Fortress quartet and Foreigner series.  This book won't be a favorite but it intrigued me enough to finish it. Her writing was elegant and understandable in this offering which is important. Sometimes I find her writing rhythem strange, and I have to concentrate extra hard to follow the story. This means I have to be in the right mood to tackle Cherryh, and her accessible writing in this book allowed me to finish it and have a more positive opinion of it overall.<br />I thought the plot was solid and intriguing. The idea of having two women fight a galaxy-spanning war with their own brand of nanotechnology whose outcome affects an entire planet's people and ecology that is fought on the intimate battleground one man's body was especially novel. Sometimes a single battle can prove to be the winning or losing of an entire war and no where is this more true than in this book. I also enjoyed Cherry's exploration of a hero who is a warrior and a disinherited son and is also considered a mad-man by the very people he is charged with saving. Marak's problems make him seem all the more human and accessible. You can't help liking and rooting for him to succeed.<br />Unfortunately, I found his viewpoint too limiting to effectively convey the entire scope of the story. He lacked the education and experience to flesh out the galactic and scientific themes that Cherryh hints at through the warring women, the Ila and Luz. They themselves are kept in the background throughout the story even though they propel the action. They never explain much, even to Marak, perferring to keep him (and thus the reader) in the dark. Obviously one can draw conclusions about the Ondalet and what means they used to inflict the hammerfall, but I think the story could have expanded onthis some more and been the better for it.<br />My other problems were with the details and pacing of the story.  There IS a lot of riding around on camels - and Cherryh doesn't make much of an effort to distinguish or dress the Beshti up, they are basically camels.  Nor does she elaborate about the  'vermin' in any great detail which makes their threat ring rather hollow. I guess I thought there would be more close calls and more struggles for Marak in doing what appears to be an impossible task. I also expected the Ila, Marak's main foe and power on the planet, to be more of an antagonistic to him and the subplot about his father didn't do anything for the story, especially since he was a two-dimensional villain at best. Overall the story lacked a certain grandeur and melancholy I would have expected in an epic about a dying planet and one man's effort to save an entire people.<br />I am of two minds about the book and therefore can only suggest you borrow a copy.  Cherryh fans will probably want to check it out and newcomers, unless the story sounds particularly intriguing, might do well to try something else of hers first. Meanwhile I'll be waiting for Defender.	2001-07-26
US	51815624	R25TO80VBM8TBX	0446528323	753255172	1: The Ill-Made Mute: The Bitterbynde Book I (Bitterbynde, Bk 1)	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Get it from the library	I have to take exception to the mostly glowing praise this book is garnering.  After reading the book and comparing my impressions with the reviews I even wondered if we had read the same book!  My biggest complaints are, in no particular order : The story is slow.  Like another reviewer I skimmed over whole pages in an effort to get to something interesting.  The author's sentences while descriptive, tended to run on and her use of unusual words, while commendable, felt forced and pretentious. The backstory was non-existent and her world-building had intriguing possibilities but was marred by an an attempt to integrate &quot;historical&quot; Celtic source material on wights.  You would think that Imrhien's encounters with various magical creatures would be interesting, but when the way to &quot;defeat&quot; them consisted of not being scared, it got old. Fast.<br />Hmm. What else? I was baffled by Thorn's apparent interest in Imrhien, and not because she was horrifying to look at and he naturally wouldn't be interested in her. If, however, her looks didn't intrigue him the next obvious choice would be her personality, yet she spent most of her inital interactions with him casting her eyes down and not doing a lot in action to make him think that she especially capable or intriguing. Imrhien even in the book felt uneasy with Thorn because he seemed contemptuous of the weak (see the trow dance) so why would her situation warrent a different attitude in him?  Oh wait, it's DESTINY...<br />Lastly, I was disappointed that it took almost the entire book to get to an exciting point in the story.  The last 40 pages were the best as Imrhien meets up with Thorn and gets closer to her goal of seeing the carlin.  What I couldn't understand is why the author so abruptly wraped up this major plot point.  One minute she is apprehensively wondering if her face can at best be made less hideous (because it was supposedly so damaged that only Maeve One-Eye had even a prayer of beingable to help her) and then wham! her face not only is fixed - she's beautiful!  Why couldn't she just have been average?  The ending wrapped up a little too neatly and tritely for my taste.  <br />My advice?  If you want to read it, get free from the library.	2001-06-19
US	51815624	R1ALSCDZ5VGKNM	1892065002	443799825	Plan B	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Speak to me of danger, do!	The biggest danger posed by this book will be your inability to put it down and the immediate need for another fix of Liaden Universe novels!  I don't know how this series escaped my attention back in the 80's, but I started with Partner's In Necessity (omnibus of the first three novels, Conflict of Honors, Agent of Change and Carpe Diem) and was instantly in love.  I read the whole book in under a week and immediately had purchase all the available books, including Plan B, which follows hard on the heels of Carpe Diem. I spent a weekend reading them all together in order, and even though I think Plan B is well-crafted enough to be read on its own,  the background information and hints that you pick up in the earlier books makes it worth your while to start at the beginning and work your way to Plan B.<br />I was impressed that Plan B fit so seamlessly with the previous novels. The action picks up right where it left off, and the characters words and deeds are so consistant with what has been written before you never would have guessed there was a ten year publishing gap between them.  The strengths of these books is in the wonderful cast of characters. Val Con, Shan, Nova, Anthora, Priscilla, Miri, Edger...they are all so well drawn with their own mannerisms and speech.  Part of the dramatic tension in Plan B is getting the various members of Clan Korval all in the same place/space at same time since many of them haven't even met each other.  You just know that Shan will approve of Val Con's lifemate Miri, but you want them to meet and talk to each other and interact, though perhaps it would be better to save Aunt Kareen for later...<br />While Plan B isn't strong on technological details, it is big on heart. The driving force is to preserve Clan Korval from the evil  Department of the Interior, a xenophobic and power-hungry shadow organization within the Liaden government.  They fear and resent Clan Korval's power and influence and the current clan members' partial Terran heritage.  This sets the stage for planetary invasion, conspiracy, sabatoge, family reunions, long-lost heirs, galatic mobs, eccentric ancestors, talking tress, truces with enemies and a host of other difficulties to be overcome and it all makes for great reading.<br />By my measure, any book that makes you want to buy the sequel and/or prequel(s) sight unseen must have something going for it, and for all the faithful readers who had to wait 10 years (!) to get Plan B in their hands, well, they have my deepest sympathy.  Right now I'll be re-reading my copies until I Dare makes its appearance. Thanks to Meisha Merlin Publishing for picking up this series, and let's hope there will be many more adventures yet to come!	2001-06-12
US	51815624	R2DG70E9IA28UH	1892065347	595281017	Seeker's Mask	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Exceptional Fantasy	If you haven't read the first two books in this series (published together as Dark of the Gods) I cannot recommend that you read them enough, first for their own merits as exceptional fantasy works and because you really need the background to fully enjoy Seeker's Mask. <br />Seeker's Mask opens shortly after the end of Dark of the Moon.  Jame's quest has ended.  She is reunited with her long-lost brother Tori and has returned their father's sword and ring.  Unfortunately before she and Tori have a chance to reconnect,  she is bundled off to learn how to be a Highborn lady. Although this section of the book takes an opportunity to explore the Women's World with its own hidden powers and politics, it isn't long before Jame has shed her mask and is off on a quest with Jorin in tow, creating mayhem where ever she goes. <br />Like DoG, Tori is featured intermittently in his own sections, and little is resolved between brother and sister which I felt was a missed opportunity. Their relantionship, while complex and requiring a realistic resolution to their many misunderstandings, hardly advanced from the previous books. They remain seperated until the end of Seeker's Mask, and the next book hints that this trend will continue (and let the next book be here soon!)<br />Despite this quibble, this is an excellent book.  Hodgell's plot will keep you turning through 400 + pages without fatigue and Jame the heroine never fails to retain our interest.  She is the most complex heroine in fantasy today. Conflicted by honor and the demands of her religion and upbringing, she nevertheless takes charge of her actions. While striving to be true to herself, she also makes mistakes, sometimes pulling down entire cities in the process! Many characters are carried by events or react only to situations created by others but Jame is a catalyst for change in her own right, as perhaps a Tyr-Ridan should be. Her stuggles with the good and evil in her nature, the expectations of her society andwhat she expects of herself makes for a flawed but real person whom you can't help but connect with and want to succeed.<br />Written with a sense of style, and full of danger and intrigue, Hodgell never loses her, or Jame's sense of humor. Full of fresh concepts (arboreal drift comes immediately to mind) and offering plenty of future plot points, characters (new and dead), and a destiny for Jame that is only hinted at in oblique references, Seeker's Mask will make you look forward to Jame's continued adventures. Buy a copy - or two ! for yourself and get one for your fantasy loving friends as well.	2001-04-24
US	51815624	R1483I694MT3NC	0345440773	552837090	The Redemption of Althalus	Books	1	20	30	N	N	Avoid At All Costs	I have to say this is the worst book I've read in 2000, and I can't believe I am saying this about David Eddings, whose work I've loved for many years.  Sadly put this is a tired rehashing of characters, mannerisms, dialogue and plot that was fresh 20 years ago in the Belgariad and just sounds tired here.  I confess I didn't even make it through the whole book because I thought I'd scream if I read one more &quot;Em&quot;, &quot;Emmy&quot; &quot;Althie&quot; and &quot;Yes, dear&quot; Beside the treacly dialogue between the main characters, there were glaring inconsistancies.  Althalus was described as a drunkerd (ala Belgarath) yet later in the book, he is shown as drinking in taverns only for information and pouring his drinks on the floor. The heros were never in any peril despite having scary opponents whom seemed curiously impotent.  You knew Althalus and the others would win through, so why care?  The perfect matching up of men and women was sickening, and if Andine wasn't a dead ringer for Ce'Nedra with her screeching fishwife voice and impassioned speeches (hello, speech to rally the troops in Castle of Wizardry?) I don't know who was. Did I mention the generic fantasy land this is set in?  You never get a sense of place like you did in his other works, even inferior ones like the Elenium. A terrible disappointment.  I don't recommend this book to long time fans because it will leave a bitter taste in your mouth and taint any fond memories you may have of his ability to write and create exciting fantasy epics. I certainly don't recommend it to new readers since it will likely scare you away from Eddings for good and that would be a shame. The greatest gift Eddings could have given fans is his complete silence if this was all he had to say.	2000-12-26
US	51815624	R2V4XGTDLCGSXD	0886778964	579829556	Valor's Choice (Valor Novel)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Undeveloped Potential	I am a big fan of Tanya Huff, and one of her best qualities is exploration of new settings for her stories.  She never lingers overlong in an already developed world unlike some other writers.  I was very excited to see a new  book set in a new world and see her trying her hand at science fiction.   <br />While I found the book adequate, it never really engaged me completely  and I felt cheated by the ending.  The writing moves you right along, but  the plot was weak.  It felt unfinished, as if this was the prologue to a  bigger, better story with better characterizations and a more adequate  backstory.  Another problem I had was her use of a combat or other military  unit filled with oddballs.  A standard cliche, even if the oddballs include  alien species. I thought her protaganist was too smart and all-knowing to  be completely believable and the possible storyline that could have come  from the friction with her new commanding officer, so promising at the  start, was never explored to its full potential.<br />The ending was  disappointing since it did little to wrap up the story, despite leaving the  door open for more adventures. I also thought the conclusions the main  character's came to about war were so slight as to be non-exsistant.  They  were both too intelligent not to have been affected by what they saw and  did. I'm not saying it needed to have been pro or con, ambiguity is fine,  but if Huff didn't have anything worthwhile to say about the situation,  then the book would have benefited from the silence of saying nothing at  all.  Overall a disappointing outing from this dependable writer.	2000-04-17
