US	51811385	R2R2EACKJIBKTG	0553575651	331407913	Ship of Destiny (The Liveship Traders, Book 3)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	It really is too long	This is a review of the entire series.<br /><br />I cannot fault Robin Hobb as a writer of characters. There are a number of characters in the Liveship series, and almost all of them are fleshed out. It is easy to identify with, sympathize with, and hate the characters; some, like Kennitt, you can do all at the same time.<br /><br />However, this is one of the downfalls of the book. There are too many characters, and even though they are well drawn, their purpose is not necessarily always clear. There are some characters who exist only to provide further obstacles to an already obstacle-ridden series. After a few hundred pages, I found myself thinking, \\"What, something ELSE is going wrong with Wintrow's (or Althea's, or Paragon's, or Kennitt's, or Malta's, etc.) life?!?\\" As a result some of the characters become annoying rather quickly, like Davad Restart, whose death comes as a relief because any time he shows up in the book, something awful is about to happen. Grag Tenira is fleshed out and made sympathetic only to be used as a lovelorn sap. What was the point? The protagonists had enough to deal with already!<br /><br />It also became hard to distinguish the villains from one another. Page after page of depraved slavers, rotten shipmates, bad first or second mates, evil merchants, etc., etc., blurred together, and the sheer volume of them almost became inadvertently funny. \\"Look, a slave owner,\\" I thought to myself. \\"I wonder how many paragraphs it'll be before he does something depraved or wicked! Ah, a first mate, wonder how long before he beats up (molests, brands, scars, attempts to murder) someone?\\"<br /><br />There were also subplots that were frankly completely aimless and annoying. I cared not in the least about the sea serpents. It would have been enough to use up a chapter to establish that they were sentient and that they were searching for something. Having the \\"tangle of serpents\\" have the same conversation, over and over and over, for agonizing page upon page, was too much. After a certain point I began to skim, or even skip, the serpent chapters entirely. They really weren't interesting, especially not when compared with the storyline involving Kennitt, or the storyline involving the Vestrits and Vivacia.<br /><br />This is a series that needed to be severely edited, and I mean severely. There is, if anything, too much detail and too many characters. When the writing gets into a rhythm, when the characterizations and plotlines of one story arc really begin to gel and draw me in - that was the exact point where Hobb would derail the flow and go into another dreadful sea serpent dialogue, or spend endless pages describing the details of someone's dress or someone's heraldic insignia or a society ball, or some other piece of florid and ultimately insignificant detailing. Hobb did it well, mind you. The distractions and details are well written. But there are far too many of them and in the long run they damage the overall storyline by pulling the reader away from characters they care about and preoccupying them with minutiae.<br /><br />I have to admit that at several times during the series, I started to skim and even to skip chapters. In short, I got bored. I am not a person with a short attention span and I have waded through some immense books, but there were parts of the series that were just unbearably long and tiresome.<br /><br />This could have been several good individual novels. The story of Kennitt, Emma and Wintrow could have stood on its own as a separate volume, as could the story of the Vestrits. The plot about Brashen Trell and Althea eventually became histrionic, but I guess it could have made a decent fantasy/romance. And the sea serpents that turned into dragons - well, I could have lived my whole life without reading yet another fantasy novel involving dragons. Dragons are one of the more played-out conventions in the fantasy genre, and unlike other reviewers I found nothing particularly enlightening or interesting about the way Hobb handled this overworked and over-written-about mythical beast.<br /><br />Overall I wanted to like this series. There were times when it was exciting and engaging, and then...another miserable sea serpent dialogue, or another 10 pages with the spoiled Satrap emphasizing what a horrible, horrible, horrible person he was. And wait, in another 100 pages, you'll get to stop the storyline you're loving and get *another* chapter detailing what a dreadful, awful person the Satrap is! (Did I mention that the Satrap is really a horrible, depraved person? Well, don't worry, another 100 pages will *really* convince you! But first you have to have your required dosage of 50 pages of Waterlogged Reptilian Angst.)<br /><br />To sum up, this could and should have been three separate novels with ONE storyline each. Then perhaps a fourth book to draw all the threads together. As it is, the Liveship books are not epic, as they would like to be, but simply unwieldy and cluttered, and ultimately more aggravating than satisfying.<br /><br />It's hard not to say enough good about Hobb's ability to make great characters, but it's difficult to find anything good about the shambolic tangle of plot that she inflicted on these great characters.ing particularly enlightening or interesting about the way Hobb handled this overworked and over-written-about mythical beast.  <br /> <br />Overall I wanted to like this series. There were times when it was exciting and engaging, and then...another miserable sea serpent dialogue, or another 10 pages with the spoiled Satrap emphasizing what a horrible, horrible, horrible person he was. And wait, in another 100 pages, you'll get to stop the storyline you're loving and get *another* chapter detailing what a dreadful, awful person the Satrap is! (Did I mention that the Satrap is really a horrible, depraved person? Well, don't worry, another 100 pages will *really* convince you! But first you have to have your required dosage of 50 pages of Waterlogged Reptilian Angst.)  <br /> <br />To sum up, this could and should have been three separate novels with ONE storyline each. Then perhaps a fourth book to draw all the threads together. As it is, the Liveship books are not epic, as they would like to be, but simply unwieldy and cluttered, and ultimately more aggravating than satisfying.  <br /> <br />It's hard not to say enough good about Hobb's ability to make great characters, but it's difficult to find anything good about the shambolic tangle of plot that she inflicted on these great characters.	2005-07-21
US	51811385	R2JHDRCG06CS1Y	1585423475	18196092	Evolutionary Witchcraft	Books	5	73	80	N	N	evolve, already!	There are a lot of pagan authors who write books that are simply rearranged versions of the knowledge that they acquired from other books, with the result that their books are either overly academic or completely 'fluffy.' Evolutionary Witchcraft is neither of these. T. Thorn Coyle is a serious, longtime practitioner in the Anderson Feri tradition, and she also brings her work with Sufi tradition into play as well. Evolutionary Witchcraft is a book for people who wish to go beyond 'Wicca 101' and start to peer into the mystery that is the Self in relation to the Divine. It is a book that will take people who are witches much farther down their path. It is a quantum leap ahead of most books on Witchcraft and Paganism. Engagingly written and powerfully motivating, Evolutionary Witchcraft is not for the unserious or the beginner, but for someone looking to deepen their path and their relationship with the Gods, it's a must-have.	2005-01-27
US	51811385	RK0MONLOBOMVE	0831400447	229062382	001: The Structure of Magic, Vol. 1: A Book About Language and Therapy	Books	1	109	201	N	N	A Complete and Total Fraud	Hideous mishmash of linguistics, hypnosis and pseudo-psychology written by two college students in the 1960s who had no experience or degreed work in any of the mental health sciences, and both of whom engaged in conduct that is very possibly unethical, both at the time of the book's publication in the 1960's and subsequently.  Bandler, in particular, has had a checkered career that the reader should research before investing in this book, or in any of the \\"ideas\\" that comprise NLP.<br />The book consists of a series of self-invented formulas that use bits and pieces of linguistics and psychology to present \\"concepts\\" that were already laid out clearly by other authors years before.  The book uses these pseudo-scientific diagrams and many unnecessarily complex, wordy explanations in order to (a) confuse the reader and (b) impress the easily impressionable as to how intelligent they are.<br />This book belongs in the same category as L. Ron Hubbard's books on Scientology or Werner Erhard's \\"EST.\\"  Bandler and Grinder based this book on their observations (which were apparently not very good) of Milton Erickson's psychotherapeutic techniques, which are outlined in much more comprehensible detail in other books.  This book, however, is hogwash.	2004-07-14
US	51811385	R3U7ZIN13CGXA1	0933224095	365835433	Burns Book	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Classic book - needs to be reprinted	Jim Burns was a true original in the world of the electric guitar. Burns guitars were like no other, and he was rightfully compared to Leo Fender.  Both men had the same questing, innovative spirit, and both were utterly ingenious in their approach to creating electric guitars.  Paul Day's &quot;The Burns Book&quot; is a wonderful tribute to and overview of these British guitars, and features comprehensive info on the Bison, the Hank Marvin models, the Jazz Split-Sound, the Scorpion, the Steer, and other beloved (at least on British shores) instruments.  There is also some information on the Baldwin years, when American organ manufacturer Baldwin bought out Burns, and on Ormston and Hayman guitars, both companies that Jim Burns was associated with.<br />Overall this is a fantastic book, especially for fans of rare guitars.  The unfortunate thing about this book is that it is somewhat dated.  More information about the Burns company and Jim Burns has surfaced since it was initially published, and the Burns Company itself has staged a comeback, with its unique guitars finally being available again in the United States.<br />It is way past time for this book to be revised and reissued, with more (and better quality) photographs. Until then, this book will have to suffice, but it's still a great overview of a unique man and his innovative, distinctive guitars.  Highly recommended for guitar junkies.	2004-04-30
US	51811385	RE7HAVK7TAOLT	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	3	4	8	N	N	lotsa flash, but is there substance?	The book is quite a rollercoaster ride.  It's mostly a showcase for images and ideas, tons of them, thrown at you a mile a minute.  The breaks in the narrative, and even the Sumerian mythology dissertations, didn't distract me. I even liked those parts, and felt they gave more substance to the book than it would have otherwise had.  Granted the &quot;language is a virus&quot; riff was copped straight from William S. Burroughs, but Stephenson played it well.<br />The characterization and plotting reminded me very much of an anime, something that other reviewers have pointed out accurately.  Unfortunately, I don't care for anime very much.  Most anime is thinly plotted and poorly characterized, and Stephenson's book suffers from the same problem.  To be honest with you, the character I sympathized the most with was the cyber-dog.<br />Stephenson created an interesting world that I liked spending time in, but he didn't seem to know quite what to do with it, and overall &quot;Snow Crash&quot; is overwhelmed by its author's florid imagination. Sadly, Stephenson followed this tendency in his subsequent writing instead of focusing on learning how to write plots and characters. His work since &quot;Snow Crash&quot; is imaginative, but didactic to the point of being incomprehensible, and plots and characters are low on his priority list.<br />&quot;Snow Crash&quot; is by far Stephenson's best work, and because of this it remains the only one that most science fiction readers know him for.  Hopefully one day Stephenson can get his imagination under a bit more control, learn more about plot and characterization, and produce more humanistic and less manic work.  Until then, this is his best, and it's worth reading.	2003-10-07
US	51811385	R1JY9ZSZKK0O31	1563895285	625882755	Superman for All Seasons	Books	5	11	12	N	N	a myth retold	I should say here that I am not a comic book reader on a regular basis.<br />This book took me by surprise. It made me realize what I loved about the Man of Steel when I was six years old and spent every penny I could beg from my dad on buying Superman comics.  It made me realize, also, what Superman means to me now, thirty some-odd years later, and how there is still resonance and life for this great literary creation (and I'll back that up with detailed arguments if I have to) all these years since his creation.<br />Superman, here, is a man, and a man of conscience.  His greatest power has never been his strength or his speed or his invulnerability. It has always been his conscience, his need to set things right, to save lives, to basically \\"do the right thing.\\" In \\"Superman for All Seasons,\\" his humanity and his conscience are brought out and emphasized.  It is easy to lose sight of those two attributes, and even DC has lost sight of them before.  Not here.  They are front and center, for your attention.  And you should pay attention.<br />Loeb, Sale and Hanson put Superman/Clark Kent back in his roots, showing his life on the farm, his first love, and the tragedies and triumphs that make him who he is.  He is not simply a \\"big blue boy scout\\" here.  He is a man of conscience, and someone who broods a lot, and someone who doesn't have all the answers. But what he does have, he gives freely, and he does his absolute best at all times.  Other readers have commented on the differences between Batman and Superman, but they all come down to this: Batman is motivated by vengeance.  Superman is motivated by responsibility. Responsibility is underrated. Vengeance is more sexy, but what quality would you rather have in a fireman?<br />This is a \\"corny\\" story. It's about responsibility, and caring for people, and doing the right thing. And yes, there's even a dog. I hate to use the word \\"values,\\" since it has been co-opted by people who have no interest in the true matters of the heart, but this story has them.  It's worth reading if you're six or if you're forty-six, regardless of whether you care about comics or not, simply because it finds the heart - the essence - of this hero, and it reflects the heart of what is good about Superman. And by extension it shows what is good about the society that created Superman as a literary figure.<br />I cannot recommend \\"Superman for All Seasons\\" more highly; it is essential for students of American culture, for people who still dream, and for people who want a good story well told.ters of the heart, but this story has them.  It's worth reading if you're six or if you're forty-six, regardless of whether you care about comics or not, simply because it finds the heart - the essence - of this hero, and it reflects the heart of what is good about Superman. And by extension it shows what is good about the society that created Superman as a literary figure.  <br />I cannot recommend \\"Superman for All Seasons\\" more highly; it is essential for students of American culture, for people who still dream, and for people who want a good story well told.	2003-08-25
US	51811385	R3LNAIQO5YE622	0786901446	703327589	Buck Rogers : A Life in the Future	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Abysmally, unbelievably bad	This is probably one of the most abysmally bad science fiction books I've ever read in my life.<br />I can't figure out if Caidin was trying to be nostalgic and write in a 1930's pulp-fiction style, or if he thought he was trying to update '30's style writing to the present day, but in either case, the book is an astonishing failure, like trying to build a nuclear reactor out of styrofoam, wood chips and Elmer's glue.<br />The book is quite frankly racist, to begin with.  It's embarrassingly racist.  No racial stereotype is left unmolested.  You would think that someone at the publishing house would have spotted this gigantic faux pas, but apparently they were blithely blind to it.  Secondly, the author is frighteningly enamoured of technology in general, and rhapsodizes for literally paragraph upon paragraph about things like polished mirrors, laser beams, and obscure parts and pieces of World War II aircraft.  His techno-fetishism finally becomes hilarious.  \\"Oh look, a bolt! Wonder how many pages he could write about it?\\"<br />Third, the plot is a huge mess with no point.  Fourth, the characters have about as much depth as your average business card.  Fifth, the book is sexist as well as racist.<br />But let me be positive.  What good things can I find to say about this book?<br />Well, it's easy to read, except for the parts where Caidin starts going on and on about technical details of Messerschmitt ME 109 aircraft.  And, um...it's funny, although inadvertently so.  And the hardback copy I found, had a copy of Phil Nowlan's original 1933 \\"Buck Rogers in the 25th Century\\" novelette bound in the back.<br />The sad thing was that Nowlan's novelette, which was originally offered as a prize for mailing in your cereal boxtops, was far more interesting at 31 pages than Caidin's entire novel. And since Nowlan's \\"Buck Rogers\\" is being sold here at Amazon without the dead weight of Caidin's book attached to it, you now have no reason to buy Martin Caidin's \\"Buck Rogers: A Life In The Future.\\"<br />Thank whatever gods you believe in that this enormous mess of a book is out of print.  And if you see it in a used book sale at a library, like I did, LEAVE IT THERE!  I wish I had...Rogers: A Life In The Future.\\" <br />Thank whatever gods you believe in that this enormous mess of a book is out of print.  And if you see it in a used book sale at a library, like I did, LEAVE IT THERE!  I wish I had...	2003-04-03
US	51811385	R3NWEDD0T1JHIM	0425184978	107328132	Words of the Witches	Books	2	12	16	N	N	Wish I liked it better	I'll preface this by saying that I am a Pagan.  I was definitely hoping for a lot from this book, and I was sorely disappointed.<br />To be honest, most of the stories are thoroughly mediocre, and some are purely abominable.  Maggie Shayne's \\"Anytown, USA,\\" which starts the book, is an example.  \\"Anytown\\" is almost frightening in its adherence to cliche and histrionics.  A minister's wife, who of course is physically and mentally abused by her husband (Rotten Men! Rotten Christians! Now everybody: Boo, hiss!) finds her inner strength and faces down a town full of nasty ole rotten witch-haters at a school chorus festival.  Shayne lets no point remain anything less than obvious, and hammers each moral lesson home with a verve betraying her background writing scripts for soap operas.  I almost stopped reading the book after this first story.<br />The second and third stories were not much better: a half-written, half-plotted cyberpunk object, and a \\"Love Story\\" based tearjerker almost made me throw the book out again.  Charlotte Brisbon's \\"Psyche's Tears\\" was better; at least there was something going on that seemed semi-realistic, and the characters were actually fleshed out.  \\"The Spelling Error\\" by Jen Sokoloski is nothing more than a romance, but a good one.  \\"Tambourine Moon,\\" by Zelena Winters, was a significant step above the rest, with its depiction of a Gypsy mother trying to reconcile with her daughters.  I'm not sure how to take Celia Moon's \\"The Letter,\\" which is more about marriage, family, betrayal and healing than anything else.  I can't say it's one of my favorites, but again, the characterization is good, and the message, for once, is not bluntly hammered home.  It still reminds me too much of the stories I used to read in my mother's \\"Woman's Day\\" magazines.  Valerie Taylor's \\"The Reluctant Psychic,\\" seems incomplete; the story needs a larger treatment.  As it stands, it's fine, but it seems quite incomplete.  \\"A Solitary Path,\\" by Evelyn Vaughn, is quite good.  Witty and fanciful yet realistic, her Tobi is a character I liked and would follow into a novel.  Rosemary Edghill's \\"The Iron Bride\\" is the bright spot in the book; an acerbic mini-mystery that is less about witchcraft and murder than it is about power and responsibility.  Definitely the shining light in this collection.<br />Overall, this collection suffers from several flaws.  One is the excessively preachy tone taken by several of the stories.  Second is the political correctness angle; men in these stories are either (a) absent, (b) Evil, or at best untrustworthy, or (c) dying. Third: most of these stories are romances in one form or another.  Looking at the author profiles in the back of the book, I note that many of them make their living writing romance novels. Too much of their daytime work leaked over into the stories they wrote here, and not always with good effect.  I find it hard to believe that the editor could not have found authors who write outside the romance genre to contribute to this book.  I also wonder why no male authors were included.<br />In summary, this is not an indispensable book.  If you like your fiction heavily on the romantic side and don't expect too much, this book is...acceptable.  But if you're looking for some real literature about modern-day witches and how they live and work in real life, this isn't going to work for you.  It definitely didn't work for me.s quite good.  Witty and fanciful yet realistic, her Tobi is a character I liked and would follow into a novel.  Rosemary Edghill's \\"The Iron Bride\\" is the bright spot in the book; an acerbic mini-mystery that is less about witchcraft and murder than it is about power and responsibility.  Definitely the shining light in this collection.<br />Overall, this collection suffers from several flaws.  One is the excessively preachy tone taken by several of the stories.  Second is the political correctness angle; men in these stories are either (a) absent, (b) Evil, or at best untrustworthy, or (c) dying. Third: most of these stories are romances in one form or another.  Looking at the author profiles in the back of the book, I note that many of them make their living writing romance novels. Too much of their daytime work leaked over into the stories they wrote here, and not always with good effect.  I find it hard to believe that the editor could not have found authors who write outside the romance genre to contribute to this book.  I also wonder why no male authors were included.<br />In summary, this is not an indispensable book.  If you like your fiction heavily on the romantic side and don't expect too much, this book is...acceptable.  But if you're looking for some real literature about modern-day witches and how they live and work in real life, this isn't going to work for you.  It definitely didn't work for me.	2003-03-09
US	51811385	R29JVTA58COWHF	1887472649	694390550	Kali Puja	Books	3	19	24	N	N	very complete and very traditional - but how useful is it?	This is a good book, but it is not exactly an easy book to use.  The various sections are not clearly separated from one another, and the book really almost reads as one continuous piece from beginning to end at first glance.<br />The method of Kali worship outlined here is very traditional and very particular.  There are many Hindu terms used, even in the English translation, where no explanation is given, and this is not particularly helpful either.<br />In short, this is really a book that is designed for the person who wishes to worship Kali in the way that the authors do, and the book probably goes well with their teachings.  It will not be useful to someone who is not already familiar with Kali worship and Hinduism, and may in fact confuse them terribly.<br />The problem with the book and the teachings within is that they are not practical for the person who has to deal with everyday life.  Very few people have the time, or can make the time, to do these worship exercises in the way this book recommends.  The poetry that appears throughout the book is beautiful, but it is difficult to read, given the line by line translation of the text, which is given first in Sanskrit, then in phonetic Sanskrit, then in English.<br />Overall, I must admit, I found this book to be a disappointment, and I certainly would not recommend it for someone who is just being introduced to the Dark Goddess.  This is a book that is very definitely oriented toward a particular type of Kali worship, and very specifically Kali worship as it is practiced and taught by Shree Ma and Swami Satyananda.  If you are not a follower of those people or that particular path, this book may not be what you are looking for.<br />If you are a follower of Shree Ma and Swami Satyananda, this book of course will go well with your studies - and you will also have the benefit, I suppose, of other material provided by them that will explain some of the terms not translated in the book, as well as the reasoning behind why the rituals are conducted in this way.<br />However, without this knowledge, this beautiful book is quite difficult, and I suspect even if one was a student of the teachers named above, the lack of any sort of layout, section, or chapter separation would be daunting.  Perhaps it would have been better to release the book simply with the English translation by itself, and provide a separate section with the Sanskrit and the phonetically translated Sanskrit text.<br />For someone discovering Kali I would probably recommend Lex Hixon's &quot;Mother of the Universe&quot; before this.  This book is primarily useful for disciples of Shree Ma and Swami Satyananda; others will find it difficult.ning behind why the rituals are conducted in this way.<br />However, without this knowledge, this beautiful book is quite difficult, and I suspect even if one was a student of the teachers named above, the lack of any sort of layout, section, or chapter separation would be daunting.  Perhaps it would have been better to release the book simply with the English translation by itself, and provide a separate section with the Sanskrit and the phonetically translated Sanskrit text.  <br />For someone discovering Kali I would probably recommend Lex Hixon's &quot;Mother of the Universe&quot; before this.  This book is primarily useful for disciples of Shree Ma and Swami Satyananda; others will find it difficult.	2003-01-06
US	51811385	R2T5DSXNFT3U69	0879303298	868892831	The Rickenbacker Book: A Complete History of Rickenbacker Electric Guitars	Books	3	2	3	N	N	not nearly complete	The real complete history of Rickenbacker is found in Richard Smith's &quot;Rickenbacker: History Of The Rickenbacker Guitar,&quot; which I would recommend over this book.  This book, like most of the Bacon and Day books, is fine, as far as it goes; the only problem is that they never go quite far enough.  There's never enough hard info in a Bacon and Day book, and that's true of this one as well as all their others.  I will say one thing though, lots of terrific pictures.  But that's about it.  If you want to know the story behind one of America's foremost guitar companies, you need to pick up Smith's book.  This is mostly useful as a picture book.	2002-09-30
US	51811385	R309ZIS3Q1IQL6	1882692012	688184433	The Secret Science: For the Physical and Spiritual Transformation of Man (Hermetic Philosophy, Book 1)	Books	1	119	141	N	N	Buyer Beware	First of all, this writer's real name is Dario Salas Sommer and he's from Chile.  He claims to have knowledge of the secret teachings of Hermes Trismegistus, an ancient Egyptian mystic.  Interestingly enough, there is another John Baines, an Englishman, who is REALLY an Egyptologist, but has nothing to do with these books.  That's not a good sign.<br />The second thing that should make you lift an eyebrow is the fact that Mr. Salas is a bit of a cottage industry in his native Chile and elsewhere, as the Founder and Spiritual Master of the Dario Salas Institute For Spiritual Science.  Which undoubtedly you can gain enlightenment from.  For the right amount of money, of course.<br />There is nothing in this book that cannot be discovered in other, older, and more legitimate works.  The material in this book that isn't in other older works is not worth reading, because Mr. Salas has MADE IT UP out of whole cloth.<br />Give this one a pass.  Try The Kybalion, by &quot;The Three Initiates&quot; instead.	2002-07-16
US	51811385	R135DFUMYE3F2I	1578631602	14025534	Cosmic Doctrine	Books	3	46	58	N	N	Extremely peculiar, to say the least	Many claim that this book was channeled from a spiritual entity, or entities.  It may well have been, or not; in her introduction to the book, Fortune states with admirable honesty that she doesn't know if it was channeled or if it came from her subconscious on overdrive.  She does lean toward the &quot;channeled&quot; theory.<br />I am sorry to say that, although I am a student of the occult, I find much of this book incomprehensible.  This does not invalidate the worth of the book; perhaps I'm not &quot;ready&quot; for what it offers, or perhaps it would only make sense to someone who was involved in the same magickal tradition that Dion Fortune was involved in.<br />In any case I can say for sure that this book is not for the casual student of the occult, nor is it even for the average person who reads Dion Fortune's works and learns from them.  To be honest, this book mystifies me completely, although I have to admire the thoroughness with which Fortune and/or the Entities create their cosmology and the apparent &quot;rightness&quot; of some of the more comprehensible statements in the book.  That is what the three stars are for.<br />However, I have to be honest and say that I don't understand what she's getting at (or what the Entities are getting at) here, and I seriously doubt the general reader will either.  Nonetheless its cryptic nature makes it an interesting curiosity, and perhaps much more than that to those more adept than I in Dion Fortune's tradition.	2001-09-13
US	51811385	R2KMF0O1V6BO70	0192854496	279569564	The Triumph of the Moon: A History of Modern Pagan Witchcraft	Books	5	20	25	N	N	Absolutely essential for the serious Pagan &amp; Wiccan	Having given up in defeat after attempting to wander through other alleged &quot;histories of modern Wicca&quot; that turned out to be nothing more than the author's pet fantasies, I asked a well-known Wiccan author and teacher what would be her recommendation.  She recommended this book.  She wasn't wrong.<br />This book is every bit as good as the positive reviewers say it is, so I won't comment in that area.  What I fail to understand is the vehemence of this book's critics, especially those who seem fixated on defending their favorite authors.  Hutton is not terribly kind to some authors, yes.  But the negative reactions seem to indicate that some people take the words of those authors as a kind of &quot;gospel.&quot;  Is that wise?<br />What I do find fascinating is that even though some of the great sacred cows of Wicca/Paganism are done away with, other, even more surprising facts raise their heads.  Why is it, for example that even in the most repressive of times, the Goddess will not be effaced?  If She will not be worshiped in the churches, then She appears to the poets of the Romantic era.  A country cleric, for no good reason, becomes infatuated with Pan and erects a statue to Him in front of a church, simply based on a mis-hearing of the shouting of a group of villagers.  There are many such oddities scattered throughout the book.  Doesn't it strike anyone else as very odd that the Old Gods and Goddesses keep manifesting themselves, in multitudes of ways, no matter what?<br />The histories of the &quot;major occultists,&quot; are interesting, but behind Hutton's exploration of the lives of people like Graves, Gardner, Crowley, Dion Fortune, Mathers, et. al., there is a subtle running stream of continuity.  The Old Gods manifest throughout Hutton's history; not in the traditional common ways that many Wiccans and Pagans were taught, but in even more mysterious glimpses, working through historical figures who have otherwise been forgotten, dropping hints and ideas in old books that somehow magically are picked up by the right person at the right time and read...<br />Perhaps in this book some of our Wiccan and Pagan idols are knocked off their pedestals.  Some survive the fall and some do not.  But if you look behind all this remarkable scholarship and read the facts that Hutton has put here, you find an astonishing record of how the Old Gods, working behind the scenes, continue to manifest themselves by any means necessary.<br />Is this too religious a view of this book? Probably.  I'm sure Hutton's intent was never to show such things.  But he has, will he or nil he.  It's there to be seen.ts and ideas in old books that somehow magically are picked up by the right person at the right time and read...<br />Perhaps in this book some of our Wiccan and Pagan idols are knocked off their pedestals.  Some survive the fall and some do not.  But if you look behind all this remarkable scholarship and read the facts that Hutton has put here, you find an astonishing record of how the Old Gods, working behind the scenes, continue to manifest themselves by any means necessary.<br />Is this too religious a view of this book? Probably.  I'm sure Hutton's intent was never to show such things.  But he has, will he or nil he.  It's there to be seen.	2001-07-31
US	51811385	RUKJBOQ18JRFN	1567185606	190661921	The Mysteries of Isis: Her Worship & Magick (Llewellyn's World Religion & Magic Series)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Worthy of its subject	In my reviews I tend to criticize Llewellyn, but publishing this book is one of their better moves recently.<br />DeTraci Regula knows a lot about her subject, and the book is thoughtfully and beautifully written.  There's a lot of information presented here, and it's presented in a clear and direct manner.  She teaches well, but avoids being didactic.  <br />The various aspects of Isis are examined in a very readable fashion, and many excellent exercises, prayers, and rituals are included.  This is a book of great depth, and the more time you spend with it, the more you will get out of it. I am rereading it now and I am astonished at how much I missed the first time around.  <br />One of the things I enjoyed most about this book is Ms. Regula's writing style.  She seems to invite you into the book and walk with you through the chapters; it is almost as if you were visiting a temple of Isis and she was your guide and tutor.  She has a lot to say and she says it with grace and warmth.<br />I would recommend this book very highly, both to those who are already acquainted with the Goddess of 10,000 Names and to those who are simply seeking information about The Lady of Words of Power and her worship as it continues today.	2001-06-18
US	51811385	R2IBN2J8JHO29U	1567185606	190661921	The Mysteries of Isis: Her Worship & Magick (Llewellyn's World Religion & Magic Series)	Books	4	46	48	N	N	Worthy of its subject	In my reviews I tend to criticize Llewellyn, but publishing this book is one of their better moves recently.<br />DeTraci Regula knows a lot about her subject, and the book is thoughtfully and beautifully written.  There's a lot of information presented here, and it's presented in a clear and direct manner.  She teaches well, but avoids being didactic.<br />The various aspects of Isis are examined in a very readable fashion, and many excellent exercises, prayers, and rituals are included.  This is a book of great depth, and the more time you spend with it, the more you will get out of it. I am rereading it now and I am astonished at how much I missed the first time around.<br />One of the things I enjoyed most about this book is Ms. Regula's writing style.  She seems to invite you into the book and walk with you through the chapters; it is almost as if you were visiting a temple of Isis and she was your guide and tutor.  She has a lot to say and she says it with grace and warmth.<br />I would recommend this book very highly, both to those who are already acquainted with the Goddess of 10,000 Names and to those who are simply seeking information about The Lady of Words of Power and her worship as it continues today.	2001-06-18
US	51811385	R1QUFAZ40N1JTS	1567186483	643738765	Origins of Modern Witchcraft: The Evolution of a World Religion	Books	1	19	26	N	N	Well-intentioned but confusing and ahistorical	I hoped for a good exposition on the history of Paganism and Witchcraft.  Instead, I got a book that was very typical of what Llewellyn is releasing these days.  Ms. Moura's idyllic view of the Indus Valley civilizations is not accurate, and does not agree with the archaeological evidence.  It isn't possible, from the archaeological evidence, to determine exactly who or what the Mohenjo-Daro civilization worshipped or believed, nor is it possible to say how they lived.  In fact, one structure that Ms. Moura identifies as a &quot;temple&quot; is believed by a great many archaeologists to be a public bath.  This kind of pick-choose-&amp;-fabricate interpretation of archaeology is the kind of stuff that frankly makes Wiccans and Pagans a laughingstock among serious researchers.  Ms. Moura's interpretations of archaeological evidence get more convoluted and peculiar from that point, and evolve outward into pure fantasy by the middle of the book.<br />Other reviewers have pointed out the more specific flaws in the history and science of this book.  I was disappointed to note the innumerable typos, typical of Llewellyn books, and even clumsy grammatical errors that made parts of the book impossible to interpret - or to take seriously.<br />At one time, the Llewellyn symbol on a book meant something, and in their back catalogue Llewellyn has a great many triumphs of publishing in the Pagan/Wiccan/Occult field.  Unfortunately, in recent years, the desire to make money has taken hold at Llewellyn, and they have published a great many books that are unreliable, full of errors, and even dangerous, not to mention badly edited and poorly written.  It is terrible to see how far down Llewellyn has fallen in their pursuit of the almighty dollar.  Although Ann Moura seemingly means well and does not obviously mean to misguide or misinform, &quot;Origins of Modern Witchcraft&quot; is more of a work of fantasy than fact.  If Llewellyn continues to publish books of this poor a quality, they will erode what little credibility they have left in the Pagan/Wiccan community.  It would be a shame to see that happen.  But it's also a shame to mislead and misinform people by publishing inaccuracies and outright fantasies about Wicca and Paganism, so perhaps the loss of credibility is the price you pay for sacrificing integrity for money.y, they will erode what little credibility they have left in the Pagan/Wiccan community.  It would be a shame to see that happen.  But it's also a shame to mislead and misinform people by publishing inaccuracies and outright fantasies about Wicca and Paganism, so perhaps the loss of credibility is the price you pay for sacrificing integrity for money.	2001-04-12
US	51811385	R3TASA3D2LRKYW	1572810319	324434608	Mini Motherpeace Round Tarot Deck & Book Set	Books	2	5	9	N	N	not necessarily the best	The Motherpeace Tarot, as some have stated, has not aged well.  The hyper-feminist views expressed in the book, and to a lesser extent in the deck, turn off a lot of people, both women and men.  The sentiment that &quot;if women ruled the world, things would be better,&quot; is nice, but it is not borne out by the careers of women like Margaret Thatcher or Elizabeth Dole.  However, if someone agrees with the political views of this deck, it may work for them.<br />But putting aside the politics, the problems I have with this deck are many.  The drawings are crude and occasionally clumsy.  More important to me than anything else is the way the symbolism diverges dramatically from the traditional Tarot symbolism.  This is where I think this deck falls short for me.  The &quot;traditional&quot; symbolism of the Tarot is there for a purpose, and it's part of what makes the cards useful for divination.  If you change the symbolism radically, you are really not using a Tarot deck any more; you are using a deck of cards to perform divination, but you are not using the Tarot.<br />The traditional tarot symbolism is important because it is based on archetypes, which work with the unconscious mind to contact the Divine and produce a reading, which is then interpreted with the conscious mind.  If you introduce a new set of images there is no guarantee that this deck will relate to the subconscious archetypes in the human mind, and no guarantee that you will be able to make contact with the Divine in order to produce a relevant reading.<br />I am told that people have used this deck with some success, and I am sure it is possible.  For me, however, this deck violates the traditional Tarot symbolism too much to be useful.  I feel that anyone considering buying this deck needs to keep that in mind.	2001-02-05
US	51811385	R2XW77QCUSLFAM	0875428940	33860849	The Robin Wood Tarot	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The Tarot I use the most	I appreciate this deck because of its Pagan symbolism. I will admit that up front.  I also appreciate the artwork, which others have criticized.  I find the artwork to be quite good, and more importantly, very true to the traditional symbolism of the Tarot.  As a result, this deck is pleasing to my eye and to my mind, which makes readings more fruitful.<br />I fail to understand the criticisms leveled by some that the art is not &quot;dark&quot; enough.  Certainly the Ten of Swords still holds its power.  The symbolism of The Devil, of course, has no horned boogeyman with ridiculous medieval overtones, and maybe that's what some of these people are referring to.  However, the actual symbolism of the card, the idea of being in bondage to something that is negative, is still intact.<br />Overall I find this deck eminently useful and very well done.  I would recommend it highly as a first deck, or as an addition to a collection.  Either way it is highly commendable.	2001-02-05
US	51811385	R1MF7JOZT7HOT9	0802130356	221065624	Five Decades: Poems 1925-1970 (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	1	3	7	N	N	Abominable translation	This was my first exposure to Neruda's poetry and it left an extremely bad taste in my mouth. It seemed nonsensical and adolescent, like a teenager who thinks he's smarter than he actually is, writing poetry to impress his 9th grade English teacher. I was ready to conclude that Neruda was not worth wasting my time on until I got on here and discovered all the other one-star reviews berating the quality of the translation. For now I will reserve judgment on Neruda until I read a decent translation.  This is a dreadful book.	2000-12-20
US	51811385	R3VAKNCYAN6E3W	034542719X	870723409	Armies of Light and Dark (Babylon 5: Legions of Fire, Book 2)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	More of the Episode That Never Was...	Once again, as in the previous book in the series, I had absolutely no trouble seeing this played out in my mind's eye.  The characters and dialogue are again very consistent with the TV series.  The book moves swiftly and there are several striking scenes, impressive even if I had never seen the series.  I was fascinated by the growth and the depth of Vir Cotto, who I always thought was an underused character on B5.  Unlike other reviewers I thought that the treatment of Vir Cotto, and the changes he goes through here, were entirely consistent with the character and with the B5 storyline.<br />One of Straczynski's recurring themes (and his imprint is all over this book) is that sometimes good people must do horrible things in order to accomplish what must be done for the good of all.  This book explores that theme deeply.  Vir's interior dialogue and the conflict between his heart and mind, as he does what most be done to save Centauri Prime, are well written.  The book is darker and more sober than the first volume in the series, but the subject matter deserves the treatment.  There are parts of the book where the action seems a bit hurried, but this does no damage to the overall storyline.<br />As with the first book, I ripped through it; I couldn't wait to find out what was going to happen next.  This book is entirely worthy of the Babylon 5 imprint, and like the first in the series, it's probably one of the best spinoff-of-a-TV-series novels I've ever read, if not the best.  I highly recommend it for B5 fans, and even for those who are not familiar with the series, it's a great page-turner.	2000-11-02
US	51811385	R104ZBJ5WLAZ68	0345427181	274183498	The Long Night of Centauri Prime (Babylon 5: Legions of Fire, Book 1)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Almost like watching an episode that never was...	OK, let's be blunt.  This is not &quot;Stranger in a Strange Land,&quot; but it's pretty darn good.  It may be the best book of its type (novelized spinoff of a successful TV series, that is) that I've read.<br />The odd thing about this book (and the second book in this series as well) is that while I was reading it, I could almost see it play out as an episode in my imagination.  The plotting, the characters, and the dialogue are very, very consistent with the series.  In spite of the fact that the book is allegedly done by Peter David &quot;from outlines by J. Michael Straczynski,&quot; some of the dialogue seems almost certainly taken from unpublished or unused B5 scripts.  There are many instances where Vir or Londo says something that has the ring of Straczynski's writing to it.  Not to short Peter David in any way; his writing is quite adept and vivid, and keeps the story moving.<br />I ripped through this book in a day; I couldn't stop reading it! I can't really say that about most books I read, but for me this one was a real page-turner.  I thought the world of B5, although I'm not one of those fans who dress up as Minbari to go to science fiction conventions, and for me this book was an entirely satisfactory and very interesting expansion on one of the many unfinished storylines of Babylon 5.  I would recommend this book unreservedly for any B5 fans, and even for those who are not familiar with the series (and shame on you if you aren't; it was the best science fiction series ever, and I've seen 'em all) it will prove a fascinating diversion.	2000-11-02
US	51811385	R2ZBJHJU13NCNN	0451191137	325409950	Anthem	Books	2	4	13	N	N	A Child's Garden Of Objectivism	Like all of Rand's books, &quot;Anthem&quot; is loaded down with her self-created &quot;philosophy.&quot;  Fortunately for those of us not suffering from insomnia, you can actually read this book without falling  stone cold asleep in the middle of chapter two.  This isn't because it's  such a great book; it's because it's so painfully simple and transparent  you could almost have written it yourself.  If you will, this is her  &quot;Cat In The Hat,&quot; but where Dr. Seuss wanted to get kids to read,  Rand here wants to get people who are ignorant of her  &quot;philosophy&quot; to agree with it.  It's less a work of science  fiction than it is a religious tract for her cult.<br />There is nothing in  this book that is new, original, or particularly interesting.  It stands  mostly as a classic example of Cold War paranoia, comparable to J. Edgar  Hoover's books on how to fight those dirty godless Reds at home or  McCarthy's radio and TV interviews about how the &quot;Communist  menace&quot; has infiltrated society.<br />The best thing that can be said  about this is that unlike &quot;The Fountainhead&quot; or &quot;Atlas  Shrugged,&quot; it is blessedly brief, and Rand's sentences, paragraphs,  and plotlines don't become as ridiculously murky as in her other works.  But that's pretty much all you can say about this book.<br />I find it  interesting that the only people who seem to take this book seriously are  Rand cultists and heavy metal band drummers who write bad concept albums  about the book (see Rush's &quot;2112&quot; for details).<br />In the final  analysis, &quot;Anthem&quot; is a quaint artifact of Cold War paranoia, and  nothing more.	2000-06-08
US	51811385	R1APT8E9FBHBDX	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	1	30	72	N	N	The very definition of &quot;didactic&quot; - good cure for insomnia	Rand doesn't have characters; she writes archetypes of the gods of her own personal Objectivist universe, and sets up stilted, histrionic situations where they bounce off one another clumsily like bumper cars at a  second-rate carnival.<br />There aren't any likable characters in this book,  and no one comes even close to displaying anything like humanity.  The  plot, hackneyed as it is, groans under the weight of pseudophilosophical  pretention that Rand heaps on it.<br />In a way this book is very much like  the newly-revived religious classic, &quot;What Would Jesus Do,&quot; in  that both books are not meant to entertain the reader, but rather browbeat  the reader into accepting the religious tenets of the author.  In  &quot;WWJD&quot; it is born-again Christianity; in &quot;Atlas  Shrugged&quot; it is Rand's &quot;Objectivism.&quot;<br />In both cases, the  burdensome theology heaped on the reader's head makes both these books  absolutely unbearable.  I forced myself to finish this book - twice -  because I had friends who sincerely thought there was something to Rand's  philosophies, and something good about this book.  There isn't.<br />I beg  you, dear reader, spare yourself this mutant monstrosity of a  &quot;book.&quot;  Twenty minutes after starting to read this, if you are  any kind of normal person at all, you will experience an overwhelming urge  to pitch it across the room and go find something better to do, like  clipping your toenails or calling your mom.<br />Follow those urges.	2000-06-08
US	51811385	R2PH5QDZTR05PX	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	1	48	82	N	N	Another cure-all for insomnia from Ms. Rand	Like all the rest of Rand's fiction, &quot;The Fountainhead&quot; clonks along like a 1956 Chevy pickup with flat tires on a dirt road.  It exhibits as much literary grace as a hippopotamus on waterskis, splashing didactic  Objectivism in its wake and nearly drowning laughing observers in waves of  pedantry.<br />I first read this book at age 15 and at the time it certainly  seemed brave and inspiring.  I read it again at age 25 and was far less  impressed, and the last time I tried to read it I couldn't finish it.  The  plotline is painfully simple.  The dialogue has no trace of authenticity,  or any of the rhythm of normal human speech.  The characters are cardboard  cutouts with little or no subtlety.  The less said about the agonizing  length of the book, the better.  Nothing happens but talk for enormously  long stretches, and then when something does happen, it seems  anticlimactic, because the characters have already signaled what is going  to happen.  And afterwards they analyze each event in excruciating detail,  never forgetting to put a nice Randian Objectivist spin on everything.<br />Rand could have taken a lesson from Robert Heinlein.  Heinlein was  another objectionable, obnoxious person with a semipolitical/philosophical  axe to grind, but Heinlein knew that you couldn't talk your reader to  death.  So he had the good grace to put in the occasional explosion, alien  invasion, or sex scene in between his philosophical rants.  He also had a  sense of humor, which Ayn Rand's books completely and absolutely lack.<br />This is primarily a very dull book.  It appeals to misunderstood  adolescents because it addresses their concerns: being misunderstood,  wanting freedom, wanting to be the big hero who triumphs over all through  sheer force of will, etc., etc.<br />But those who have left adolescence  behind, who are not as self-absorbed or as self-righteous as Rand and her  characters are, will not find much to like in this book.  The positive  reviewers in the &quot;Synopsis&quot; section above harp on how much Rand's  novels have sold, but if large sales guarantee high quality, then V.C.  Andrews must be the new Shakespeare.<br />I advise anyone with good sense to  give this book a pass.  There are thousands of other good books you could  read, including the New York City Telephone Directory, before you try to  tackle this unreadable, lumpy mess.ewers in the &quot;Synopsis&quot; section above harp on how much Rand's  novels have sold, but if large sales guarantee high quality, then V.C.  Andrews must be the new Shakespeare.  <br />I advise anyone with good sense to  give this book a pass.  There are thousands of other good books you could  read, including the New York City Telephone Directory, before you try to  tackle this unreadable, lumpy mess.	2000-06-08
US	51811385	R26QS5ZPMS6827	0875421717	936724956	Maiden, Mother, Crone: The Myth & Reality of the Triple Goddess	Books	2	22	30	N	N	Nothing that hasn't been done better elsewhere	This book might -- MIGHT -- be of use to the beginner or the casual practitioner, but anyone who has been involved in paganism or wicca for any length of time will not find much here that hasn't been covered elsewhere.  And, I am sorry to say, covered in more depth. The illustrations are nice,  though, and for someone who is not very familiar with wicca or paganism  this might be helpful, but ONLY as a start down the path.  If you're  further on down the Way, there's not much of any interest here, sad to say.  And what is it with Llewellyn and spelling errors?  This book is loaded  down with them.  People, Microsoft Word includes a spellcheck function -  USE IT.	1999-10-14
US	51811385	R1HO4S6TKD235Q	0931759153	503388015	Rickenbacker	Books	4	12	12	N	N	The definitive text on the definitive American guitar	Richard Smith's book is simply the best available on Rickenbacker guitars.  The Rickenbacker story is presented directly and simply.  Of course there are lots of insanely cool pictures of Rickenbacker guitars.  An invaluable  source of information for the collector, or for the normal guitarist, a  great book to just plain read.  I gave this four stars instead of five  because of the spelling errors that reoccur throughout the book.  As  opposed to the Bacon/Day Rick book, this is not just a quick gloss of the  company's models but an indepth look at the company.  I hope Smith updates  this book every so often.  As it stands it is the best reference on this  subject in its field.	1999-10-14
US	51811385	R33TDUMWFK6J4T	0875423248	629408406	Modern Magick: Eleven Lessons in the High Magickal Arts (Llewellyn's High Magick)	Books	3	18	26	N	N	A good intro to Ceremonial Magick	This book is a good introduction and explanation of Ceremonial Magick. Everything is laid out precisely and clearly, and by reading it, I became absolutely sure that Ceremonial Magick was NOT the path for me.  But I came  to understand the mindset and the practices of the ceremonial magickian by  reading this very accessible and user friendly book.  It contains some very  good explanations of practices that every practitioner of magick, whether  Ceremonial or not, can use, and is very helpful as a reference even if,  like me, you choose not to walk the challenging path of Ceremonial Magick.  A worthwhile book.<br />I would like to add to the young lady who wished to  use this book to &quot;cast spells&quot; on her ex-boyfriend: there is such  a thing as the Law of Three, which states that you will get back three  times over whatever energy you send out.  I suppose you will learn from  experience what magickal backlash is all about.  Enjoy the lesson.	1999-10-14
US	51811385	R2TW9MDXMEYU4D	0877283346	781642352	Book of the Law	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A supreme work of mystic poetry - but really not much more	Crowley's work has little to do with &quot;hating God&quot; or &quot;being your own god&quot; or &quot;the whirling of the electric void,&quot; etc., etc.  This is a book of mystic poetry, allegedly dictated to Crowley by a  supernatural being of some sort.  Like much of Crowley's work, there is  sublime beauty here, interspersed with sheer nonsense and the man's  obnoxious egotism.  However, it is the basis for a great deal of magickal  thought and theory.  Crowley was obviously a man of insight, and, it must  be said, a great magickian, but he was hampered by his need for attention  and his addictive nature. All those qualities are here displayed in this  book, which is why it draws its share of demented worshippers as well as  wise people who can objectively study it to discern his insights. And make  no mistake; the book does take study, and thought.  It is worth reading,  especially for the student of occult thought, but remember to take your  extra-large grain of salt with you at all times when venturing into  Crowleyland.  That being said, the Invocation of Nuit is purely beautiful.  Aggravating but profoundly enlightening.	1999-10-11
US	51811385	R3NIO13QMZZ71J	1561840351	779111841	Aha !	Books	1	9	21	N	N	Unbearably bad poetry	Crowley is a maddening author, full of wisdom and insight and equally full of outrageous lies and obnoxious egotism.  This is one of the examples of the latter; it's basically just extremely bad poetry pertaining to his  particular teachings, at least the ones he was trumpeting at the time he  wrote it.  If you want to find out more about Crowley, &quot;Magick Without  Tears&quot; and &quot;The Book of the Law&quot; are far more enlightening  and inspired than this book, which is quite frankly tripe, and very rank  tripe at that.	1999-10-11
