US	51823461	R2TY4HBFB3H4PO	0060921684	129944646	Dust Tracks on a Road: An Autobiography	Books	3	41	46	N	N	eventually satisfying	I've just finished reading this book as a summer reading assignment for school, and to my surprise, I found myself actually enjoying it. I went into the reading of this book with reluctance. I've read THEIR EYES WERE WATCHING GOD, and while I enjoyed that book at first, I was always frustrated that the main character had to find herself through dependence on men, namely Tea Cake, whom I despised because of his controlling nature and ultimate betrayal. However, despite my prejudices against it, this book managed to grab my attention.<br />That is, in the last three chapters. I did not think this book was mostly an account of the other books Hurston has written, as some other readers have stated.  Hurston only focused one or two chapters toward the middle of the book on other works, but even then it was only to list when she wrote which book, not to go in depth on the process and motivation. However, it seemed to me that it was an account of Hurston's journey through life, including details on her childhood in Eatonville. This is all well and good, except, especially as Hurston gets into the adult years, she tends to gloss over much of the details, omitting names, and mentioning events which obviously impacted her life yet for some personal reason or another, refusing to describe to the reader these events for fear of who knows what. <br />This was only the first confusing element. I also had a difficulty with Hurston's writing style. She tends to jump from one anecdote in the middle of another with no explanation before returning to her original story, which left me as the reader, feeling befuddled. The sequence of the chapters, out of her childhood, also does not really seem to follow a sequential storyline. <br />I was also bothered with Hurston's portrayal of herself, especially her childhood self. She seems to portray herself as the only child there ever was with an active imagination. Perhaps I am actually a member of the privileged minority, but I know that I told myself stories and had imaginary friends when I was a child. I was also very devoted to literature, and reading, as I still am, though Hurston's individualities in that area are more understandable, perhaps, considering the circumstances.<br />Despite all this, I walked away from this book with a respect for Hurston that I hadn't felt before because of the last three or so chapters in the book where Hurston discusses her thoughts and feelings on her race, and the inter-racial strife which hurt the African-American Civil Rights movement. I also enjoyed the appendix in which the reader is allowed a glimpse at Hurston's more controversial writing. <br />I don't hold a grudge against Hurston's perhaps unorthodox method of writing an autobiography, far from it. In fact, I think this book would have benefited greatly if Hurston had included more of her personal view points on the world as she did in the last few chapters. Hurston was often criticized for writing African-American literature that was not a rousing cry for Civil Rights, in this book, Hurston finally explains WHY. It also would have been helpful if Hurston either would have detailed the events in her life which were so groundbreaking, or simply not mentioned them at all, instead of saying \\"Then this happened and it changed my life and for that I will be forever grateful, but I'm not going to tell you anything about what it was.\\" The strange presence of such passages was much more disquieting then their absence would have been.<br />So in conclusion, I'm glad this book included an appendix, and I do feel Hurston deserves some plaudits for writing what was eventually a stimulating autobiography.	2002-08-14
US	51823461	R16PEX5HYJL2HL	0802133908	163605681	Pedro Paramo	Books	5	16	18	N	N	IB you did me good (er, well).	... I'd like to say that never in my life have I read a book for school that I have enjoyed more. Never have I seen one human man create so many flowing tangents of possibility using so few words. PEDRO PARAMO is a story told between the lines, as Rulfo said his life was made by the silences. And what's between the lines? The question is left almost completely up to the reader to answer. I've never read a book that is so wonderfully and easily its own inverse. This is not a book to keep as a beach companion, it's a book that makes you think. And though my fellow students might argue that Rulfo's ambiguity is frustrating (I would agree with them at times), I also find it to be so liberating. Rulfo is an author content to lay the framework for the story. He puts his readers down on his forest path and lets them hack their own way through his trees (I know some of us wished we had had machetes at times, hence the hacked). But, to be cheesy, no matter what rout they take, they all reach the other side of the woods in the end.<br />My advice when reading this book...don't take it too seriously. Let it stimulate your mind, but don't try too hard to figure it out. Sometimes I tend to think that Rulfo would be most disappointed if we actually figured him out. I think he meant to leave this book open-ended to encourage independent reader interpretation, and that if someone sat down and said \\"this book means this and only this,\\" then he would be disappointed. Yes, this can definitely be upsetting to some people because we like knowing the end to the mystery. But hey, maybe it's nice to know for once that no one's wrong here. The one rule with this book is there are no rules, life is death, death is life. So if death isn't the final answer to the question of life (is life the answer to death?), then why is there an answer to Ruflo's question? Perhaps his question is the answer... hah hah.<br />I'm done being all pondery now. In closing, this book rocks. It's innovative, it's mysterious, it's interesting, and, even if you don't like it, it makes you think.	2002-01-30
US	51823461	R2R4E3XVADG4GJ	0061068225	689856473	Cindy's Bold Start (Thoroughbred Series #48)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Much Better	I would like to give a huge, huge round of applause to author Mary Anderson for turning Cindy, one of the worst TB characters ever written, into a person I actually liked. Though I wasn't too thrilled that this book had almost absolutely nothing to do with Whitebrook, and I also wasn't thrilled that Cindy's still in love with Boring Ben, I enjoyed reading this book simply because it was written well. It was nice to have Cindy think a FEMALE jockey was a bad rider, and it was nice to see Cindy actually having to get her hands dirty. I give props to Mary Anderson for knowing Cindy's REAL last name (Blake), and for writing this book in a realistic, enjoyable manner. I was also thrilled that Sierra was mentioned, even though it was only for one sentence.<br />Of course, there were sill the little technical errors (Since when is Sierra a gelding, Honor a chestnut, and Wonder an orphan?) But then again, I'm too nit-picky. Plus, those errors are, unfortunately, to be expected.<br />My only complaint about this book was that there wasn't enough about Whitebrook. I thought the purpose of these past two diary specials was to fill us in on what happened during the ten year black hole that seems to have sucked up most of the series' old characters. I enjoyed reading the book because it was well written, but I'd much rather read about Mandy, Max, Heather, Princess, Shining, Fleet Goddess, Mr. Wonderful, etc. We still need about two more books to fill us in on what happened to all our old favorites.<br />And what's the deal with Samantha and Ireland? I still feel like there was absolutely no reason for her to move there. Oh, Tor and I get to train with a top eventer, so we're just going to leave Kentucky and horse racing and both of our families, plus our well-established careers, and move around the world so that the new authors won't have to deal with us. Yay! What I think is that the next Super Edition should be about Samantha and Tor's move to Ireland. Hey, maybe Tor's long lost mother (remember her? His parents divorced and his mother remarried) moved there, and her second husband died so she needs some help? I also agree that the diaries should have been Super Editions. Then they could have been longer and more in-depth. I mean, this is a best selling series with devoted fans (I've been reading the books for 8 year). It's not going to hurt the publishers that much to shell out for the extra paper.<br />But for what it was, this book was well written and enjoyable, and it was nice to hear about Honor, and read that bit about Sam and Sterling in the beginning, though there are still some huge questions that have been left unanswered.	2001-08-14
US	51823461	R1OKQE9KQ67P41	0061058734	445881053	The Bad Luck Filly (Thoroughbred Series #42)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Yesh	I'll start by saying I don't like the way this book began. You're just thrust right in. There isn't an introduction. Nothing is really explained. When you are told the details they're spat out and harried sounding. This whole book is rushed. I understand that if you write these books they have to be condensed due to lack of time and to the readers they're aimed at. But still, they didn't used to be like this. Ever since #36, that's when it really started. It's like you start reading the book in the middle of chapter three. I don't think a lot of it is the writer's fault, I just think they're given really dumb plots. This plot's just overused. Its obvious that eventually, even if it doesn't happen in this book, Melanie will end up with Image. I'd love it if she actually got sold off to Brad and there was no way Melanie could get her back...and another thing, here is no way a two-year-old would be racing a mile and a half. It might happen, but I doubt it. That's why such a big deal is made out of the Belmont Stakes, its usually the first time and the only time horses are asked to go a mile and a half. Two year olds do not race that long. At least not that I've heard, and I will say I could be wrong b/c I'm not exactly the big expert on racing. I just wish they'd get the facts straight. Like when they had Star in the Debutante, and that race is for fillies. Star is a colt. This book was just a let down and very anti-climatic. The plot didn't really go anywhere, you keep waiting for something to happen and it never really does. I'm probably being too harsh because this is a children's series and its not supposed to be great literature, but they publishers could at least make an attempt. I know the authors try, and the actual quality of writing in itself has not gone down. In some cases its gone up. But, the books are all too hurried, there is still no connection whatsoever between Star and Chris. In fact, there's more between her and Gratis. Also, what happened to Parker and Lyssa and their Olympic dreams? They're important enough to have their own book and now they're dead. Its horrible. You don't leave loose ends. I wish the editors would sit down and actually read the books, and catch the mistakes, like the mile and a half thing. And another thing, Pride was mentioned as being the best horse in Whitebrook's history. Um, excuse me, what happened to Champion? He only won the Triple Crown and the Dubai World Cup, that's all (though personally I liked Pride A LOT better then I liked Champion). Happens every day you know. I just...it's not the writers fault so much as the publishers need to stop being so lazy about it. There are hard-core fans out there like me who notice these things and get upset, and we're the people who are making them money. I feel a lot of the blame is unfairly being put on the authors when, most of it should go to the publishers and the editors, who really aren't doing their jobs. I'm just disappointed with this book and it's clich theme. I am, however, very very glad that Melanie finally gets her own horse, and the author did a good job of writing Image. The books are realistic. I also like the way Alexis has been developed. So keep up the good work, the important things like character development. SHOW us, don't TELL us. In these books there is just so much telling us, not showing us. Nothing is allowed to develop and blossom before our eyes. It just happens and we're expected to believe it. I should probably stop now b/c I'm running out of room. All in all the writing wasn't bad, the publishers just need to give the authors more time and information and the editors need to pay attention.	2000-08-16
US	51823461	RD7G6EJRVCWXM	0061066354	292595386	Close Call (Thoroughbred Series #41)	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Why?	I would like to know, as I put above, why? Sure it was interesting to read a book from Parker's perspective, but I thought we'd established that eventing went bye-bye. And who was this Lyssa girl? Not only was she  obnoxious, she was annoying and unnecessary. Sure the writing quality in  this book was good, but once again the editors and publishers fumbled. If  Star is only two, there is no way he'd be training for the Bluegrass when  its in April next year. Sure it could be on the schedule, but I don't think  they'd be pointing him toward it so firmly. And little details were off,  such as saying that Wonder won the Derby and Preakness, another editing  flaw. I don't blame the writer for that, there's so many little factiods  that are so hard to keep straight. Campbell herself did it with Blues King  on occasion. The problem with this book is that once again it was  unnecessary. The plot sort of sputtered along, and don't think it was the  author's fault. I've read books by this author and usually they're fine. As  I said, the quality it writing in this book was good. Detail was good.  Character development was good (you got a feel for Lyssa). This book, for  all I'm concerned, could have been from a series about fishing boats, not  the TB series. Please please please stick the racing. And remember, not  just races, racing. We want character development outside the track. At  least Cindy's coming back (though it took twenty books).	2000-06-01
US	51823461	R2WODMSKTZBAE9	0061066346	462611957	Ultimate Risk (Thoroughbred Series #40)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Okay	This book was okay. I still think these books should be about WHITEBROOK. I wasn't pleased with the Gratis plot line one bit. I thought Christina was so dedicated to Star and wanted to ride him so much, so in my opinion, in sticking with the character that's she's been created as, she would have ridden Star. But the plot twists were interesting. The books are much more realistic then ever. However, some parts were still lacking in detail. Also, there still seems to be a lack in relationship between Star and Christina. Too much time is focused on the races, there's little character development outside the track, and there aren't really subplots any more. Subplots make the book interesting, and can be insightful. Other then that, this was an okay book, but I think that two weeks of the series' time shouldn't have been wasted on this plot. Please oh please more Whitebrook! We wanted racing, not just races!	2000-04-04
US	51823461	R3GGBGN7X7INP2	0061066338	933353403	Living Legend (Thoroughbred Series #39)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	An Improvement	This book is much better then the other books that have been written lately.  It's very realistic, and gives more insight into the horse racing world then any TB book ever has before.  I give props to the author/editors/publishers for limiting Chris's wins.  But Star still hits  me as a slacker.  There is no real development between horse and rider.   You see that he won't perform for anyone but Christina, we understand that,  but the relationship is completely one sided.  Christina dotes on Star,  that's quite clear, but for a colt who's supposed to be in love with one  person, Star seems to completely ignore Christina.  Another thing, the book  relied a little too heavily on races for a plot. Inbetween the book seemed  to sag. Having lots of races in a book is all good, but there was little  character development outside of the races.  There were also some minor  detail problems. Ashleigh didn't jockey Wonder in the Derby and Belmont,  Jilly did.  Ashleigh's first Triple Crown victories were in the Kentucky  Derby and Preakness aboard Wonder's Pride. Recent authors of the series  seem to be challenged by simple facts like that.  It's really not that  hard.  Just make up some sort of spread sheet with each horse's name, what  races they won/lost, and who was riding them.  That should make it easier.  Another helpful thing might be to read all the previous books. Townsend  Acres colors are green and gold, not red and black, though I can let that  one slip seeing as there's always the possibility that Brad changed the  colors.  However, if that was the case, this should have been explained to  readers by the authors, or the author should have known the correct colors.  Research help.  You might not think people will notice small slips like  that, but they will.  The editors also need to work better at catching mess  ups like that.  Another thing is that Christina's hair color keeps  changing.  First it's strawberry blonde, then it's brown, then it's  strawberry blonde again.  Make up your mind!  I can understand someone's  hair getting darker as they get older, mine certainly did, but I don't  believe someone's hair changing back quite that fast.  Your hair color can  lighten in the summer, but not that much. You'd have to dye it.  But, other  then the small detail flaws, and the slight lack of character development,  this book was overall, good.	2000-02-16
US	51823461	R3L22NX3JFC6NV	0061066338	933353403	Living Legend (Thoroughbred Series #39)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An improvement	This book is much better then the other books that have been written lately.  It's very realistic, and gives more insight into the horse racing world then any TB book ever has before.  I give props to the author/editors/publishers for limiting Chris's wins.  But Star still hits  me as a slacker.  There is no real development between horse and rider.   You see that he won't perform for anyone but Christina, we understand that,  but the relationship is completely one sided.  Christina dotes on Star,  that's quite clear, but for a colt who's supposed to be in love with one  person, Star seems to completely ignore Christina.  Another thing, the book  relied a little too heavily on races for a plot. Inbetween the book seemed  to sag. Having lots of races in a book is all good, but there was little  character development outside of the races.  There were also some minor  detail problems. Ashleigh didn't jockey Wonder in the Derby and Belmont,  Jilly did.  Ashleigh's first Triple Crown victories were in the Kentucky  Derby and Preakness aboard Wonder's Pride. Recent authors of the series  seem to be challenged by simple facts like that.  It's really not that  hard.  Just make up some sort of spread sheet with each horse's name, what  races they won/lost, and who was riding them.  That should make it easier.  Another helpful thing might be to read all the previous books. Townsend  Acres colors are green and gold, not red and black, though I can let that  one slip seeing as there's always the possibility that Brad changed the  colors.  However, if that was the case, this should have been explained to  readers by the authors, or the author should have known the correct colors.  Research help.  You might not think people will notice small slips like  that, but they will.  The editors also need to work better at catching mess  ups like that.  Another thing is that Christina's hair color keeps  changing.  First it's strawberry blonde, then it's brown, then it's  strawberry blonde again.  Make up your mind!  I can understand someone's  hair getting darker as they get older, mine certainly did, but I don't  believe someone's hair changing back quite that fast.  Your hair color can  lighten in the summer, but not that much. You'd have to dye it.  But, other  then the small detail flaws, and the slight lack of character development,  this book was overall, good.	2000-02-03
US	51823461	R3SGLZ25BTU9AW	0061066095	961685990	Down to the Wire (Thoroughbred, No. 38)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Disappointing	Where as the previous books were slightly entertaining, this one was incredibley dull, boring, and empty of detail.  The weeks and years are flying by too fast, especially for books these short.  Characters have  disappered into nowhere, and details no longer seem to matter. The worst  thing an author can do is leave loose ends, and there are so many loose  ends in this series you could wrap them three times around the earth. And,  as I said, these books are bland and unbelievable.  I give the author props  for having Star loose his first race, but Melanie should have ridden Star,  not Chris.  Plus, because of lack of character development, there doesn't  seem ot be any bond at all between Star and Christina. In my mind I see  Star as a slacker, not a horse missing his favorite rider. No detail, no  elaboration, too many loose ends.  Why I still read these books, I don't  know.	2000-01-06
US	51823461	R3N0J3EQZQGW7S	0061066087	725644631	Star in Danger (Thoroughbred Series #37)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Sigh	This book was an improvement on the last several books.  But I don't like how they skipped a year, I don't like the way Ashleigh was acting, and I don't like that Katie, Dylan and Cassidy mysteriously disappeared.  Is that what these authors do?  When they don't like a character they just stop  writing about them?  They send the characters into oblivion?  I think the  reason people reacted so negatively to the new generation is because the  authors/editors/publishers did not include enough information about  previous characters (equine and human).  And now they've done it again.  It  makes me sick.  Even if these books get better, I will never truly be  satisfied until the old characters are brought back from Nowhere land.  I  mean, come on, every GOOD authors knows that you can't just dismiss a  character.  Once you've created them, you're stuck with 'um.  I also find  it hard to believe that Parker would be allowed to live with Sammy and Tor.   He's a minor, and minors need their parent's permission to be placed under  the care of a guardian. Livinia and Brad didn't seem thrilled about  Parker's sudden departure. Anyway, the bottom line is, the authors who  write these books need to learn the meaning of the word CONSISTENCY.	1999-10-12
US	51823461	R15T7L3HXDZOSM	0061065641	61569367	Dead Heat (Thoroughbred Series #35)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Sigh	Just when these books were getting better, this one came along.  This plot is jsut a repeat of what happened to Cindy and Ashliegh, with the exception of Melanie's problmes with Kevin.  The author who wrote ths obviously  doesn't know much about racing because when she was writing about the race  she didn't do that great.  I dunno, but this book jsut rubbed me the wrong  way.  Also, Sierra was never gelded.  In book #9, He was almost sold ot a  stud farm, and for that he had to be a stallion.  Mike thought about  gelding him in #8, but he never did.	1999-06-05
US	51823461	RIE69EWYX0WJM	0553492470	700217598	Shying at Trouble (Pine Hollow No. 6)	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Boring	This book was almsot exactly like the last one. It was just an extension of all the problems in the last book.  Only one problem, AJ, was somewhat resolved.  But Bryant, even when she has enough unresolved sub-plots and  plots to make plot soup, she creates even more plots.  I think she's afraid  of letting ill befall on her characters, and that's why nothing ever  happens to them!  Well I say enough is enough!  I'm tired of hearing these  characters think &quot;but on the other hand,&quot; or, &quot;still,&quot;.   These books are going nowhere fast.  Bryant needs to rethink her plot line  soon, and resolve a lot of these plots, or else she will be left with a  bunch of tired plots, overacting characters, and no readers.	1999-05-18
US	51823461	R2XMP4GZY8985C	0061066079	859417253	Without Wonder (Thoroughbred Series #36)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	It had to happen	Sad as it was, Wonder had to die eventually. Though this series has, in recent years, taken steps beyond fiction into pure fantasy, those in charge have not gone so far as to eradicate mortality. The fact is, that, though Wonder did indeed have to die, she did not have to do so in such a pointless and embarassing manner. Her death was contrived simply to pump some life into a faltering series, and was written by an anonymous author who had no right to be penning the last breaths of such a beloved character. And she died to give birth to a boring colt who would be loved and doted upon by his bratty rider, Christina. I had thought that this series had hit a low point when Christina was turned to eventing in book #24, but then again, it can always get worse.	1999-05-15
US	51823461	R1J396U0XE6BTT	0061065633	817033240	On the Track (Thoroughbred Series #34)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Much Better	I liked this book for many reasons. One it was written well, with that facts kept straight. Ashleigh did win the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness on Pride. It was Jilly who rode Wonder in the Derby. I love how this book included Pride, 'cause he was always one of my favorites. But I'd still like to hear more about Cindy. Just because Karen Bentley ruined her, doesn't mean that she has to fall off the face of the earth. I agree with the reader from Virginia, Christina is the Queen of Snobs. Also, they should have gone to Whisperwood and talked about Christina's lessons, and included Parker more since they made such a big deal out of them. Oh well, nothing's perfect, but this is a definite improvment.	1999-04-10
US	51823461	R1RHYGOG2VJA59	0553492462	896506149	Conformation Faults (Pine Hollow(TM)) (Book 5)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Boring!	Please, make the torture stop!  You've heard of authors not developing their characters enough?  Well this one over develops her characters to come off as a good writer.  The whole book is repitition with most of the  paragraphs begining with &quot;on the other hand&quot;.  Yuck.  If you cut  out all the parts that were basically repeating something from an earlier  book or the same book, this book would be 50 pages instead of 264.  I'm so  tired of the same old problems.  There is no purpose to Carole and Lisa's  fight, just the author trying to make her book interesting.  The plot is  boring and horrible, and this book is on my used bookstore shelf.  I'll say  it again, this book was so boring and predictable (I could have told you  what was going to happen in the whole book by reading the first couple of  pages) that you should not waste your money.  I thought this series was  getting better.  Oh groan!  Oh, and this book is nowhere near an accurate  portrayal of teen life.  If it was, these girls would be much more involved  in High School, in fact, they wouldn't have much time to do anything else.   Okay, I don't have enough room to say how bad this book is.  If you're  still not convinced, email me or something.	1999-03-09
US	51823461	RO2A60R2R1PYM	0061065625	195109676	Racing Parker (Thoroughbred Series #33)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Slow trek up a tall, icy hill	Slowly, painfully slowly, these books are getting better.  I liked that the Townsends are back, but the new authors still didn't explain why the Townsends don't seem to have any interest in Wonder or her foals any more.   I like that Samantha is back also, because she was always my favorite  character, but some how I have this feeling she would have been more  devoted to racing.  This book still had a little too much romance in it for  my tastes.  I really don't care if Christina ends up with Dylan or whoever  she ends up with.  And I don't know about Parker being a constant  character, he's just too strange for me.  All we need is another boy to  distract Christina.  I also don't like how the authors did a whole book on  Cassidy and in this book she had about two pages.  This series still needs  some work, but it looks like the authors are really trying now.  Oh, one  more thing, why can't they talk about Cindy a little more?  I mean, she  wasn't my favorite but I'd like to hear about her, and maybe Pride too.	1999-02-10
US	51823461	R2167FMTKMJV1N	0553492454	240977796	Changing Leads (Pine Hollow No. 4)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Okay, a little better	So it took four books of Bonnie /Bryant to find her stride, at least she found it.  But this book stil wasn't great.  I am jsut sick and tired of Alex and Lisa's romance, it's jsut so silly and frivilous.  Lisa is  supposed to be a straight &quot;A&quot; student and she comes off as an Air  Head to me.  This book included more about horses, which was why it  improved, and Bonnie finally began to move away from the accident.  The  writing actually seemed to have some thought in it, and the book wasn't  like a cheap Soap Opera or something.  Even though there wa one thing that  bugged me.  At the begining of the series Emily was a ig part of the story  line, but now Mrs. Bryant only leaves PC and never talks about Emily.  Also  Bonnie sorta writes aboutthe same things over and over again, just in  different words.  The series is a little monotonus, but if bonnie moved on  to a different topic, it has the potential of being excellent.  One other  thing, these girls horses need to get ridden and taken care of better.  I  would have called the ASPA on them by now.	1999-01-18
US	51823461	R24UE6XAXPDCQZ	0061065420	144429136	A Horse for Christmas (Thoroughbred: Ashleigh, No. 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent piece of writing!	For a childrens book, this book I found, was very mature.  In this book, Ashleigh has been nursing Lightning back to health for 5 months, and finally, Lightning is well and beginng to trust.  Ashleigh learns that she  will probably get to keep Lightning and is estatic, but then she learns  there's a catch.  The Humane Society also wants to give Lightning to a  cancer treatment center that houses children with and recovering from  cancer.  Ashleigh really wants to keep Lightning, but at the same time she  wants to help the kids with cancer.  To make matters worse, the Humane  Society is making her choose what to do with Lightning, and its Christmas  time!  What will Ashleigh do, and will she make the right choice?	1998-11-16
US	51823461	RWP78W6BE67LY	0553492446	63009466	Reining in (Pine Hollow #3)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	This is sooooo fourth grade	Okay, the fact that Lisa and the &quot;Saddle Club&quot;  are still running around with and being chummy with &quot;famous&quot; movie stars makes me sick.  Can we say unrealistic?  This book reminded me of books I  read in fourth grade.  I mean, come on?  Carole &quot;dating&quot; a star,  Lisa considering dating a star.  I can't see a difference in this series  from the other one except that the Saddle Club can drive.  This sould be  called &quot;The Saddle Club After They Went Through Puberty and Got  Drivers Licenses.&quot;  I gave this book two stars because Bonnie told us  about Veronica, and a little about Maxi.	1998-11-09
US	51823461	RS90VJNMWZJYG	0396068081	265625121	Wild horse running	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great Book!	I thought this book was wonderful!  The descriptions and illistrations  were beautiful.  I first read it from the libary then was delighted to find  it at a used bookstore.  I immeadiately bought it and read it many times!	1998-08-22
US	51823461	R2OA1R6TYZDT7P	055348625X	268437562	Painted Horse (The Saddle Club #75)	Books	1	0	9	N	N	I am disapointed........	And I thought the new TB books were bad.  Yuck.  Mrs.Bryant did so well with #74 but then she just went back to her own riding style.  I don't know about the rest of you but I&quot;m more interested in real horses, not fake ones.  I've always hated Stevie and this book just proves that not everyone is a great writer.  I	1998-04-12
US	51823461	RGQRFEVNUWSHB	0061067997	278972949	Sterling's Second Chance (Thoroughbred Series #26)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	I don't know what to think........	I know that when I haven't ridden a horse in two weeks after injuring myself I can just climb on my horse and win a three day event, especially if, b/c I didn't get right back on after I fell off, I had become terrified of horses.<br />I hate Cassidy. Where in the world did she come from and WHY is she here? Why did she even have her own book? Did anyone else ever really care about her THAT much? I don't see anyone crying themsevles to sleep because they loved her so much.<br />Unorginal and unbelievable. I disliked this book.	1998-04-12
US	51823461	R1MKQ22AY22PIV	0553486268	914481138	Horse Care (Saddle Club, No. 76)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	I don't know........	A small improvement from #75.  I love the cover bu the book, well.  I think these books reley to heavely on snobs for the plots.  Seesh, I mean, how many Veronicas can you have?  The fact that Lisa, being a &quot;great&quot; horsewoman would do something as stupid as not paying atention to where she was going is just, humph.  I hate how Mrs.Bryant adds charcters and then never talks about them again, like the new boy in this book, whats-his-name.  If Max is so strict why does he let the Saddle CLub around on such a lose rein?  Oh well, at least Mrs.Bryant did another horse/rider bond in this book.	1998-04-12
US	51823461	R3DNDUMQCWYN7H	0061067989	949722130	Melanie's Treasure (Thoroughbred Series #25)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Better.................	I am N-O-T not going to say I am in love with this book.  It is in fact a small improvement on the authors part.  Melanie is better behaved then Christina, while Christina is still a brat.  Wonder's Pride is actually mentioned in this book but none of the other horses are.  Cindy is still not mentioned.  For those of you who don't know Melaine is Christina's &quot;cousin&quot;.  The next book looks really stupid and I bet it stinks.	1998-03-06
US	51823461	R38SGFAS7A3IUH	0061067970	654655350	The Horse of Her Dreams (Thoroughbred Series #24)	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Hated It	When the editors were having their meeting on what to do to the TB series, one of them stood up and said \\"Hey, I've got an idea. Let's completely change the theme of the whole series from racing to eventing, ignoring that fact that this series had something original and different going on (which is why it's doing so well), meanwhile stabbing all our devoted fans who love racing in the back. And while we're at it, why don't we have the level of quality go down, the books get stupider, and the become characters more two-dimensional then ever? Plus, since no one loves Wonder, even though without her this series wouldn't even exist for us to ruin, why don't we just get rid of her last foal? And while we're at it, I never liked Samantha, and since everyone agrees with me, I'm sure no one else did either, so let's just have her move to Ireland with no explanation. Oh, and have her take that stupid husband of hers with her. And, let's make Ashleigh into a total and complete middle-aged... who's as dumb as a rock, and overprotective to boot. While we're at it, I'm tired, so let's just never mention any of the old characters again? Okay. Let's go out to lunch.\\"<br />This \\"new generation\\" was probably the stupidest marketing ploy ever in the history of books. And now the publishers are paying for it with their lives as they try their best to find a reasonable excuse to turn the eventing crazy Chris into a racing fan, meanwhile alienating all the new eventing fans they've gotten.<br />Sure did a great job, didn't they?	1998-01-26
US	51823461	RXDOW7IO59TL3	0553486241	284827009	Horse Whispers (The Saddle Club, Book 74)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Really, really good!	I read the Saddle Club books because they're about horses.  I have them all, two copies of #1 but they are kinda silly.  I mean most  of it is pretty stupid and retarded but I REALLY LIKE THIS BOOK!  Rarely does the Saddle Club go into the bond between horse and rider.  The books are usually about really stupid thigs with dumb plots.  But this one explored the bond between horse and rider.  It was well written.  Very well thought out.  The parts where Stevie and Lisa were learnig to cook weren't all that good but the parts when Carole was with Chance were so totally awsome.  I really like dhte parts about horse whisperers and when the named the mare Carole's Chance.  Since the Thoroughbred series has been ruined I have not read a book of this caliber.  I only hope that Mrs.Bryant will keep it up.	1998-01-19
US	51823461	R1H3YP280O8Q1Q	0061067989	949722130	Melanie's Treasure (Thoroughbred Series #25)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Oh No!!!!	Another random book about two random characters who will, strangely enough, become dear to the TB series fans, probably because Melanie actually had a personality unlike her cousin Christina. Technically though, Melanie shouldn't even exist because, you know, Mike never had a sister. The editors could have made it much easier on themselves if they had made Melanie Rory or Caroline's child but, oh no, I forgot, it's forbidden to write about old characters!<br />Too bad they've ruined Melanie now too. She's turned into a paranoid, greedy freak. Seesh.<br />It gets three stars for the pretty cover and because I liked Melanie until recently.	1998-01-15
US	51823461	R2TZKZK7WMDSB8	0679813462	241862195	Black Stallion and Satan	Books	5	0	0	N	N	MY FAV BLACK STALLION BOOK!	Though there are many books in the Black Stallion sreies, htis is my favorite.  I have read this book so maany times my copy is falling apart.  I recoomend all BS books to everyone of alll ages.	1997-12-03
US	51823461	R2T06GULQ73AKH	060608293X	530952759	Wonder's Yearling (Thoroughbred)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A classic that will keep you coming back for more.	In third grade, I purchased this book because I liked the picture on the cover. Now, eight years later at age sixteen, I'm still reading these books devotedly, and even have my own website dedicated to the series (...). These books are unique not only because they're about racing instead of the usual eventing, but because Joanna Campbell was so good at developing the bond between girl and horse. Readers of the Thoroughbred Series become as close to the horses as the main characters do, and Ashleigh and Sammy are definitely people I'd like to have as my best friends. Even though in more recent years the quality of these books has suffered due to changing authors and constant factual errors, the first twelve books remain classics.<br />In this book, we see through the eyes of Samantha McLean as she watches the horse she loves, Wonder's Pride, grow from a gangly yearling to a beautiful racehorse. However, trouble is brewing at Townsend Acres where Sammy and the colt live. Mr. Townsend, the colt's co-owner, has fallen on hard times, and it looks like he might be forced to sell his half of Pride! It's no help the Mr. Townsend's arrogant son, Brad, would love nothing more then to see Pride sold, since he still bears a grudge against the colt's dam, Ashleigh's Wonder, for beating his colt, Townsend Prince, in the Kentucky Derby, among other races. It's up to Sammy and Ashleigh Griffen, a Townsend Acres Legend, and Pride's co-owner, to find a way to keep Pride at Townsend Acres.<br />This book establishes Pride as a horse worthy to fill the horseshoes of his dam, the famous Ashleigh's Wonder, and shows that Sammy is just as likable a heroine as her predecessor, Ashleigh. It's easy to fall in love with the big chestnut colt and his fiery-haired groom, and this book will have you rooting for Pride and Sammy all the way.	1997-11-08
