US	51823888	R1GNUMEJ85F6I4	0471159638	305427596	The Origin of Language: Tracing the Evolution of the Mother Tongue	Books	3	10	12	N	N	OK, now comes the hard part.	This book, written for lay readers, ventures two arguments.  One, which seems plausible enough, is that existing linguistic families correspond to genetic markers in the peoples who originally spoke them, and are related in a similar tree that relates human populations.  The other, far more controversial, is that just as *Homo sapiens sapiens* is the offspring of a single stock and a common group of ancestors, so also are all human languages related; and in fact some root words of Proto-Human can be reconstructed by the comparative method.<br /><br />Amateur philologists like myself will naturally jump at such a tantalizing suggestion; and perhaps one test of how good an amateur you are is to see how many problems you can find with his development of the themes.<br /><br />His basic method, like Joseph Greenberg's, is bulk comparison of vocabulary.  Few attempts to reconstruct underlying forms are made here, with some conspicuous exceptions.  His method is to present words in lists, and invite readers to perceive similarities themselves; an interesting rhetorical ploy that makes the reader the accomplice in setting up the main thesis.  In these lists, reconstructed forms from protolanguages appear unmarked next to vocabulary items taken from wide ranges of existing lnaguages; there's no reassurance that any of the words in one of his rows are from the same language, or are actually attested forms.  The same is true of the long lists of words cited in text: protolanguages appear besides dozens of obscure languages.  Nouns, verbs, and grammatical particles or inflections appear alongside one another in the same list.<br /><br />The rest of the book is taken towards presenting an argument that explains why reconstructions or analyses of the history of his roots will not be forthcoming.  Ruhlen argues that no such analysis was necessary to identify Indo-European, which was discovered on the strength of word lists alone.  One flaw in this argument is that scientific hypotheses are not thumbs-up or thumbs-down propositions; rather, they gain or lose confidence depending on the depth, power, and detail of their explanatory power.  It isn't that these word lists aren't enough to get to \\"maybe,\\" it's that they aren't enough to go further than that.<br /><br />In any case, phonological and historical rules *do* appear in the text.  Ruhlen notes correctly that often a /k/ sound is voiced to /g/, or that /t/ sounds can be palatized to /c/ or /s/ sounds.  These phonological rules let Ruhlen cast a wider net, allowing more and more words from different languages to be mustered as evidence.  They *never* appear as historical grounds to reject a purported cognate, on the ground that the inherited form in this particular branch must have changed in an intermediate stage prior to the observed form in one language.<br /><br />The bottom line is that Ruhlen's hypothesis stalls at the \\"maybe\\" stage.  Someone is going to have to do the harder work of actual historical linguistics here if this hypothesis is going to be able to move past that stage.entific hypotheses are not thumbs-up or thumbs-down propositions; rather, they gain or lose confidence depending on the depth, power, and detail of their explanatory power.  It isn't that these word lists aren't enough to get to \\"maybe,\\" it's that they aren't enough to go further than that.   <br /> <br />In any case, phonological and historical rules *do* appear in the text.  Ruhlen notes correctly that often a /k/ sound is voiced to /g/, or that /t/ sounds can be palatized to /c/ or /s/ sounds.  These phonological rules let Ruhlen cast a wider net, allowing more and more words from different languages to be mustered as evidence.  They *never* appear as historical grounds to reject a purported cognate, on the ground that the inherited form in this particular branch must have changed in an intermediate stage prior to the observed form in one language.   <br /> <br />The bottom line is that Ruhlen's hypothesis stalls at the \\"maybe\\" stage.  Someone is going to have to do the harder work of actual historical linguistics here if this hypothesis is going to be able to move past that stage.	2005-09-23
US	51823888	R3KJVO5O7GVMCC	0738700142	27017662	Ancient Tarot of Marseilles	Books	4	32	32	N	Y	This Conver is easiest to find in the USA	Nicholas Conver's 1760 woodcut Tarot was the basis for Paul Marteau's Grimaud Tarot de Marseille pack that appeared in 1930.  It was Marteau who named this particular style the \\"Tarot de Marseille.\\" This deck, or a deck very similar to it, was the deck that was discovered by Antoine Court de G&eacute;belin and written about in his treatise \\"Le Monde primitif;\\" he was the first to propose the theory, ultimately shown as historically unsound, but deeply influential, that the tarot were \\"arcana\\" that preserved Hermetic or Egyptian secret wisdom.  Court de G&eacute;belin's theories were picked up by Etteila, founder of Tarot divination, and by Eliphas L&eacute;vi, whose version was passed on to British Rosicrucians and ultimately to the Golden Dawn.<br /><br />This Conver deck, therefore, represents the root and origin of all later systems of Tarot divination and all occult theories about this deck of cards.  This is what Pamela Colman Smith and A. E. Waite worked from; this is what Frieda Harris and Aleister Crowley worked from.  This is also the foundation of all of the  rather different Francophone systems of tarot divination and interpretation, systems that have had only slight impact on the English speaking world.<br /><br />Some may not find these cards to be things of beauty; they look genuinely old, and as stated above, they are traditional.  The deck that comes with the \\"Tarot Set\\" is another version of the Conver Marseille.  These are made on laminated card stock, and feel like they are made more soundly.  Of all the several reprints of the 1760 designs, this one is probably the easiest for a U.S. buyer to get.<br /><br />Users should be aware that the original deck from which these reproductions were made was apparently missing the Six of Bâtons.  The Six in this deck was made by erasing the central Bâton from the Seven; this means it does not have the floral decorations that the original deck had.  If your system of interpreting the Tarot de Marseille includes the flowers, you may prefer the Tarot Set edition to this one.es the flowers, you may prefer the Tarot Set edition to this one.	2004-12-18
US	51823888	R10V2C38QKR9AS	0345461509	812787082	The Savage Tales of Solomon Kane	Books	5	21	22	N	N	It's like reading television.  But *good* television.	As the greatest writer of yarns of pure adventure, Howard's stories are excellently paced and never drag.  They grab you by your throat upon the first page and don't let go.<br /><br />Solomon Kane is one of the more likeable characters from Howard's typewriter.  Like Conan, he is a praeternaturally strong fighter.  There's just enough psychoanalyzing in here to make him interesting.  Kane is a \\"Puritan,\\" but Kane's Puritanism means in essence that he imagines himself the instrument of God's predestined vengeance upon the unworthy and unholy, that he might \\"ease them from their lives.\\"  In the grip of a grim wanderlust, he is the kinsman of the Wandering Jew, or of Melmoth the Wanderer.  His determination is not for his own sake.  Unlike Conan, he is driven by more than a will to survive; he is doing the Lord's will.<br /><br />I suspect that Kane is less well known than Conan largely because many of Kane's tales take place in the Africa of pulp fiction, full of witch doctors and violently sensual tribal empresses.  This sort of thing makes people in the twenty-first century understandably nervous.  The daintily politically correct will not have the stomach for this, and people with a jaundiced eye towards racial politics are sure to find many faults; but then these people are unlikely to get a taste for classic pulp adventure.  It isn't as bad as you fear in any case.  Kane's righteousness is such that he willingly unsheaths his sword in defence of Black people as White: this redeems Kane from the worst accusations that could be laid at his charge.<br /><br />The illustrations are nicely done in an appropriately classical style.  Howard's prose is presented without serious editing or tinkering, and the apparatus notes any serious variations.	2004-10-27
US	51823888	R3LMUAKA18BUCZ	1592231381	718630764	The Tarot Set: The Illustrated Book of Tarot	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A bargain at this price	The deck, though inexpensively printed, is the star attraction here.  What you get is a very standard historical reproduction of a Nicholas Conver style Tarot de Marseille, which was originally printed in 1760.  Other reprints of this deck are available, but the one in this set is the least expensive.  This is a historically accurate and traditional deck which has not been remade after the image of any group's specific teachings.  The deck was originally made for playing a card game, and came to the attention of occultists shortly before the French Revolution.  This is the deck that stands at the root of all subsequent esoteric systems; the symbols they contain begin here.<br /><br />Jane Lyle's book, unfortunately, while good enough in itself, is a poor fit for the deck.  She gives mostly Rider-Waite-Smith meanings for the cards without the \\"training wheels\\" of the Rider-Waite-Smith illustrated pip cards.  For a beginner, using that system with these cards is going to involve a lot of memorization.  For learning to read the Tarot de Marseille, a system based on numerology would be more appropriate.  The French \\"tirage en croix\\" system, which uses only the trump cards, could also be taught with this deck.  I gather that the book and deck were put together as a marketing decision.  Still, it's an excellent deck, and a fairly good beginner's book, but the unique virtues of the deck are not mirrored in the book.	2004-10-04
US	51823888	R1NV1NA8I6GVLP	0691006202	703965477	Men, Women, and Chain Saws: Gender in the Modern Horror Film	Books	3	8	25	N	N	Good in spite of itself	The author is obviously an academic, and seeks to dignify her pop-culture subject with ludicrous rhetorical tropes borrowed from the grad school version of pop psychoanalysis.  She says \\"gender\\" when she means sex.  She is capable of writing phrases like \\"the killer's phallic purpose. . .\\" and sentences like \\"What -is- clear is that where there is -Wiederholungszwang- there is historical suffering --- suffering that has been more or less sexualized as 'erotogenic masochism.'\\"  Clarity, it seems, ain't what it used to be.  Charlatans like Gilles Deleuze and hatemongers like Susan Brownmiller appear in the bibliography, and the book is obviously addressed to an audience that has not yet learned to laugh at them.<br /><br />Still, the central thesis of the book is in fact a cogent analysis of the ritual of the 1980s variety \\"slasher\\" film, and if you overlook the bogus jargon she gets it mostly right.  The book convincingly goes through the rituals involved in this highly stereotypical variety of film.  Even the vaguely radical academic version of sexual politics has some purpose in this:  these slasher films, like all accepted exercises in gore and the temporary suspension of tabooed subjects, attempt to justify their existence by claiming in some obscure way to reinforce social norms.  It would be a much better book if it were written in workaday English, but it is nevertheless an interesting read, and insightful almost despite itself.	2004-08-08
US	51823888	R2YQ6ZDOK1EXNV	0310923603	19500251	NIV Spirit of the Reformation Study Bible	Books	5	77	79	N	Y	A study Bible that doesn't insult your intelligence	Not only Calvinists, but all Protestant readers will be able to learn much from this well done study Bible.<br /><br /> I have used the previous edition, the &quot;New Geneva Study Bible,&quot; for about nine years now, and enjoyed it immensely. My old one is full of scribbled notes. This one seems to have expanded the text of the annotations by at least a third, and likely more. The editors have somewhat improved their clarity and style. There is, unfortunately, little room for scribbling in the margins of this Bible.<br /><br /> The focus on doctrine and teachings is what makes this Bible seem meatier than its competitors, and is the chief reason I would heartily recommend it, even to non-Calvinists. With this study Bible you can be referred easily to the Biblical passages that establish, say, the eternity of God or the concept of the Trinity. Brief essays on key Biblical doctrines abound in the text. Most of them do not refer to specifically Calvinist ideas, and those that do are at least honest enough to acknowledge the existence of contrary opinion.<br /><br /> This honesty is found in other controversial areas as well. They don't endorse young-earth creationism, and allow the readers to make up their own minds about geological history. They do recommend the historical interpretation of Jonah, but allow that it might be a parable. They allow that the texts of the books of Moses may have been compiled by other inspired editors. They aren't going to tell you that Gog is Russia, or that the founding of Israel lit the fuse for Armageddon. They are, in short, conservative about the core truths of worldwide Protestant Christianity without timidly following a U.S. fundamentalist hardline. For that, I give glory and praise to God.	2004-07-30
US	51823888	R1YD2MQNIK56UH	0785209301	788128118	King James Study Bible	Books	3	36	55	N	N	Jerry Falwell's KJV Bible	I got one of these because the KJV is my favourite translation.  Not that I believe that this particular translation inspired, or that other translations are somehow sinister or distorted.  Rather, it's that the King James Bible is familiar, poetic, inspiring, and a literary masterpiece in a way that other translations aren't.  It would really be nice to have a fully annotated King James Bible that preserved the traditional beauty of the text without beating you over the head with notes that, frankly, insult your intelligence.  This one, unfortunately, is not it.<br />The opening paragraphs of Genesis 1 are furnished with anti-evolution comments.  Hebrews 6 is annotated with a paean to &quot;fundamentalism.&quot;  The dispensationalist system is accepted without even taking notice of contrary ideas, and treated as part of the gospel, and defined in its most extreme form: &quot;A dispensation is an administration within a period of time that is based on a conditional test to determine if people will be faithful to God. . . &quot;  Whatever happened to &quot;For I am the LORD, I change not?&quot; (Malachi 3:6)  At Ezekiel 38, it repeats the old claim that Gog is Russia.  At least we aren't told that Genesis 1 took place in 4004 BC.<br />In fairness to the book, the index made it easy to find all of these problematic parts in the commentary.  The text of the Bible itself is large without being &quot;large print&quot; ugly, and the entire system is easy to read and use.  Take your text and your cross references from this one; but take your commentary from some other publication.	2004-07-17
US	51823888	R16P0FVK8YEFCR	0807067938	330545771	The Myth of Matriarchal Prehistory: Why an Invented Past Won't Give Women a Future	Books	4	22	30	N	N	The flip side of the Aryan myth	The \\"Goddess\\" was born in the speculative anthropology and philology that came out of the late nineteenth century.  The myth of the Goddess, and the lost matriarchal utopia, is in fact the flip side of the Aryan myth: the long discarded notion that Europe was conquered by blond Aryan supermen who overran and erased prior cultures with their superior military prowess, imposing their language and their folkways upon conquered people.  Tales of an Aryan conquest may or may not be true for India; they are surely not true for all of Europe.<br />The simple truth is that there isn't enough in the archaeological record to give much of any lengthy account of what Neolithic peoples believed in.  Reading complex symbolism into the curlicues on old potsherds goes well beyond what the evidence will allow.  Those records, such as they are, furthermore disclose a number of varied and varying cultural complexes, a pattern that continues well into the time when philologists can be confident that Indo-European languages were being spoken in the area.  The practice of a single religion across wide areas is not supported by what evidence we have.<br />Still, for a book whose title announces that it was specifically about prehistory, discussion of the archaeological record perhaps ought to be fronted, and discussion of the political implications of faith in the Goddess left for the conclusion.  Whether the matriarchy existed or not is independent of whether it is politically useful.  Some note could also have been taken of the means of transmission.  The matriarchy and the Goddess, despite their origin in early 20th century comparative religion, became important literary tropes well after archaeologists and archaeologists concluded that these hypotheses went well beyond what the evidence allowed.  But even after the science faculty came to dismiss them, they remained lively in the humanities department whenever they got around to teaching -The Waste Land- or -Finnegans Wake-.  The Goddess myth was preserved long after its scientific heyday, as a shared literary fantasy; she has waxed or waned depending on how many people found that fantasy attractive or useful.ddess myth was preserved long after its scientific heyday, as a shared literary fantasy; she has waxed or waned depending on how many people found that fantasy attractive or useful.	2004-01-07
US	51823888	R1IJN1FWXGUOKF	1931412537	68909029	Zhuan Falun: The Complete Teachings of Falun Gong	Books	2	10	25	N	N	Translated?  My eye!	I picked this up out of curiosity because I was curious as to what the Chinese Communist Party found so threatening in this stuff.  A book that promised to tell me \\"the complete teachings of Falun Gong\\" might shed light on the controversy.<br />Whoever said that this was translated from the Chinese is guilty of a gross overstatement.  In fact, this book is bristling with Chinese jargon, and those without some background in Chinese philosophy are going to be hard pressed to make head or tail out of large parts of it.  The English text would benefit from thorough editing and proofreading.<br />Apparently demons are after my Qi, and unless I get on board with the sect, they're going to get me.  I hold no brief for religious persecutions of any kind, and think that people ought to be free to practice any sort of oddball belief system they choose, even if it is exclusivist and holds unusual tenets.  Still, I can understand why a government might find a sect making these kinds of claims disturbing.  Looking at this literature helped me understand, at least a little, what the ruckus was about.	2003-06-17
US	51823888	R1JM81QB2FIP0H	052129875X	584276314	The Languages of Native North America (Cambridge Language Surveys)	Books	5	29	33	N	Y	The astonishing diversity of human speech	People who are interested in unusual languages, like myself, probably have some familiarity with Marc Okrand's Klingon, created to be the speech of an alien race.  This artificial language throws in some less than common sounds, and creates a somewhat unusual syntax, and attempts to sell the result as the speech of an alien race.<br />A few minutes with this book will suggest to the reader who takes an interest in these things that Klingon is a profound failure.  Here we have a record of people here on Earth who have created alternative linguistic structures that are even more unfamiliar to English speakers.  This book will open your mind to the astonishing variety of ways human verbal communication can be categorised and organised.  We have languages with no clear distinction between nouns and verbs, and languages that can give tense and conditionality to adjectives.  We have languages that use different pronouns for a 'we' that includes the person being addressed, and a 'we' that excludes that person.<br />For a reader with interests in these matters, this will be a fascinating, if somewhat dry, read.  Your joy at being introduced to this fascinating variety will be tempered, though, by the ever-present elegiac note in these pages.  Literally hundreds of these tongues are still spoken only by a handful of aging people; hundreds more have gone silent.	2003-05-03
US	51823888	R1H8G40ZYOD5RD	0738700266	27017662	Ancient Italian Tarot	Books	5	55	57	N	N	One of the best non-Marseilles traditional decks	Llewellyn and Lo Scarabeo have out 2 different decks that are based on Carlo della Rocca's engraved versions of the traditional tarots.  This is the one I recommend.<br />The other one, they call the &quot;Classical Tarot.&quot;  That one looks newer than this one.  There are some minor variations on the pip cards.  This one looks like a reproduction of a genuinely old deck.  More importantly, they have not narrowed the image areas of the cards in order to fit a set of rather odd keywords on them, which they did to the Classical Tarot.<br />The images here are almost entirely consistent with the Tarot de Marseille symbolism on all the major points.  These, however, are done with fine-lined engraving instead being based on blocky woodcuts. This deck will appeal to those who want a traditional deck but who find the art of the Marseilles deck hard to work with.	2003-04-13
US	51823888	R2QCXQDPVX1N80	067976867X	470087128	Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge	Books	3	7	21	N	N	This will never work. . . .	Ever since reading Martin Gardner's -Fads and Fallacies in the Name of Science-, I've always been troubled by books that lead off with the assertion that various &quot;experts&quot; will dismiss what the author has to say out of hand.  This does not inspire confidence.<br />The &quot;Enlightenment&quot; was doomed from the beginning: doomed, mostly, by the inherited biological traits that Wilson's better work in science shows as putting constraints on human culture.  Derrida and especially Foucault were on to something: it really is all about power.  Humans find it difficult to think with the detachment they'd have to because they spend too much of their time occupied with stupid primate social games.  Nobody is going to be able to herd these apes into coordinating their scientific efforts across disciplines, without each group of specialists wanting theirs to be queen of the sciences, and my contribution to be the brightest gem in the crown.  Chimpanzee politics dooms consilience.	2003-03-07
US	51823888	R1OJA0CFHSH2JH	0195144139	760637737	How to Kill a Dragon: Aspects of Indo-European Poetics	Books	4	62	65	N	Y	Prodigiously learned; but does he make his case?	Your first impression will involve picking your jaw up off the floor.  Here we have examples from Vedic Sanskrit, Old Irish, Greek, Latin, Old English, Hittite, and dozens more obscure, ancient, or dead languages like Umbrian and South Picene, all marshalled in support of the argument that it is possible, not only to reconstruct the language spoken by the ancient Indo-Europeans, but also to reconstruct some of their oral literature, and the cultural role of ancient bards in the courts of nameless chieftains.<br />The marshalled evidence of the rhetoric of these ancient literatures is indeed impressive.  Many parts of it --- specifically, the parts that discuss the various metres of the ancient poems, and suggest ways in which the sound changes of which we have evidence may suggest that these verse forms stemmed from common ancestors --- are convincing.<br />But the difficulty in parts of the book's argument is its failure to exclude other possibilities --- such as borrowing, loan-translations, or simple independent invention --- of the phrases and images it argues are inherited.  Some of them, like the inherited phrase meaning &quot;everlasting fame,&quot; are more convincing than others, if only because not only the idea, but the root words themselves, are inherited.  We know from comparing Classical, Hindu, and Germanic mythologies that some god-names were inherited.<br />But when the book argues in favour of an inherited myth that says &quot;a hero kills a dragon (or some other foe),&quot; we're dealing with subject matters that are known to exist in literatures other than Indo-European ones.  After all, this is what heroes do.  It is unclear even whether these motifs are commoner in Indo-European literatures than elsewhere.  Some attention needs to be paid to the possibility of other explanations, and why the hypothesis of inheritance is the likeliest among them.	2003-01-05
US	51823888	R3AQZUPBS1W6D2	012728270X	412710470	Early Germanic Grammar: Pre-, Proto-, and Post-Germanic Languages	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Derivational grammar of the various Germanic languages	This book is thorough in its coverage of the derivational laws that turned Indo-European words into the Indo-European vocabulary of the Germanic languages.  To find interest here, you will not only have to have a fairly solid background in Indo-European linguistics; you will also need to be familiar with the abstract shorthand used by historical linguists, as it is omnipresent in this book.<br />As a treatment of these topics, it is thorough and comprehensive.  It is silent, though, on the question of whether there is a substantial non-Indo-European element in the Germanic languages, and the relationship of any &quot;substrate,&quot; if it in fact exists, to the sound changes it records.  There is also minimal attempt made here to analyse relationships between the various Germanic languages, even though the book records similar sound changes appearing independently among the different languages of the family.  Some nod to the existence of these subjects for debate would have made this a better book.	2002-11-30
US	51823888	R3TGXZ0H3MUFX2	0764552929	562430664	Network Marketing For Dummies	Books	1	16	150	N	N	"Network marketing" and Christianity don't mix	Something has gone seriously awry with the moral compass of a Christian who is able to countenance the concept of \\"network marketing,\\" a/k/a \\"multi-level marketing.\\"<br />Let's face it: all cold-call sales techniques break the Golden Rule.  Multi-level marketing is worse even than them: in the pursuit of a golden dream of money and glittery respect that elude most of its dupes, it hitches its star to a self-promoting philosophy of salesmanship whose essence seems to be that if you hope to successfully deceive others, you must first deceive yourself.  \\"Network marketing\\" treats our friends, neighbours, church members and other social acquaintances as tools, hoping to sell them a product, or better, recruit them into a pyramid scheme and add them to your \\"downline.\\"<br />What would Jesus do?  If you value humility, if you would not be drawn closer to the world, if you would walk with the Man of Sorrows, I think you should steer as far away from this sort of \\"success\\" promotion as possible.	2002-11-30
US	51823888	R113XIW32V225B	0062516329	128410882	The Spiral Dance: A Rebirth of the Ancient Religion of the Goddess: 20th Anniversary Edition	Books	3	6	18	N	N	Thank you, Starhawk!	Thank you, Starhawk!  You've managed to give Wicca as much embarrassing political baggage as Christianity ever had... Pagans who make their political beliefs so sacred that the thought of compromise with neighbours becomes impossible; pagans who think their neighbours too lost in \\"false consciousness\\" to be worth trying to persuade; pagans who react to questions with rage.  Instead, they too await some kind of apocalyptic social upheaval, hoping it might all lead to utopia afterwards.  And until the apocalypse comes, they lose themselves in a reverie of bogus history as a paranoid fantasy of persecution.  If I wanted that, I'd read Butler's Lives of the Saints.<br />Starhawk's witches and Pat Robertson's fundamentalists deserve each other.	2002-10-29
US	51823888	RYYE5PYB91558	0738702366	827099253	Tarot of the Master	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	An interesting deck from the pre-Rider-Waite-Smith period	This is an Italian deck that was engraved in the last years of the nineteenth century by Giovanni Vachetta.  This puts it about twenty years before the familiar Rider-Waite-Smith deck.<br />The trumps are mostly based on Marseilles symbolism with some Classical touches; Cupid, Apollo, and Diana, for instance, are on the Lovers, the Sun, and the Moon.  There doesn't seem to be any discernible esoteric theory behind the variations, though; there is no visible influence from Wirth, Levi, or the Golden Dawn here.  All the cards are drawn in an attractive pre-Art Nouveau style.<br />The court cards are given personalities and settings; the King of Cups appears to be Bacchus; the Queen of Cups is in the kitchen cooking.  The Queen of Swords seems to be Judith, wandering away from the camp with the severed head of Holofernes in a sack.  Some may find some depictions rather annoying; the King of Coins, for instance, is a [typical]miser.<br />The pip cards are given various illustrations that may have been intended to convey divinatory meanings.  The 9 of Clubs, for instance, depicts the clubs as pipes of an organ, with a Latin inscription \\"Dulce auditum\\" --- sweet to hear.  Others may not be, though; the Coins march through the sequence of the Roman emperors, with the next one depicted on each coin; hard to see divinatory meanings for that.  They are, however, decorative.<br />Unfortunately, the backs are not symmetrical on my copy.  This makes the cards harder to use for reading; you can tell whether the coming card is upright or reversed.  This is to me a flaw.	2002-10-29
US	51823888	R3P0EAYG7OJRFI	0312162944	47550178	A Wicked Pack of Cards: The Origins of the Occult Tarot	Books	4	27	31	N	Y	The re-invention of cartomancy in France	As this book confirms, contemporary interest in Tarot cards was rekindled by a brief mention of the traditional Marseilles deck by a late eighteenth century French writer named Court de G&eacute;belin.  Writing without the benefit of Champollion's rediscovery of the Egyptian language, de G&eacute;belin created a fanciful history of the cards, a fanciful etymology of the word &quot;tarot,&quot; and was the catalyst for a great deal of mystification and malarkey.<br />The authors of this book try to do for the history of this old game what Ronald Hutton did for the origins of neo-paganism in &quot;Triumph of the Moon.&quot;  What they lack, though, is a wider background in the literature and culture, including the popular culture, of the period of French history in question.  A broader grasp of this material would answer the question of why a need was felt for a mystic Tarot in nineteenth century France, and enable them to relate to their subjects with somewhat more sympathy.  This background is given in Hutton's book, and is perhaps the most successful thing about it.  Without it, the discussion of occult cartomancy turns into a round of &quot;liar, liar, pants on fire.&quot;	2002-08-30
US	51823888	R2EX1E71841LRM	0618144757	57483755	Mysteries of the Snake Goddess: Art, Desire, and the Forging of History	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good on the details.  Sketchy for the bigger picture.	Lapatin does a good job in sleuthing through the surviving letters and other documentary evidence.  He reaches the conclusion, mirrored by the lab report contained in an appendix to the book, that the &quot;Boston Snake Goddess&quot; is almost certainly a twentieth century forgery.<br />He reveals that it is impossible to carbon-date the ivory of the figurine itself, because of the techniques used to restore it.  Ivory fragments associated with the find but not used in the reconstruction date back about four hundred years.  The chemical composition of the gold in the find does not match ancient gold.  The facial expression is unlike genuine examples of Minoan art, lacking either the archaic smile or the manga-style eyes of genuine artifacts.<br />His verdict is stated with caution, but the evidence seems to weigh against the authenticity of the Goddess.  He also catalogues a number of similar statues, some of which are definite forgeries, and others have similarly dubious histories.<br />These images nevertheless reappear over and over again, not only in historical, but also in popular literature.  They were adopted into popular culture, in fantasy novels, and as feminist symbols.  They even became the keystone of enthusiasts' attempts to revive the worship of this apparently invented deity.<br />Where his argument breaks down is  when he attempts to present the broader context.  He asserts that Evans, the chief excavator at Knossos, was influenced by prevailing intellectual trends in positing ancient Crete as an idyllic society practicing a goddess-worshipping earth religion.  In fact, though, he presents very little of Evans's own conclusions in making this argument.  Where his theory comes from, and why it was wrong, is treated much less thoroughly in this slim book.  Influential successors obviously influenced by Evans's theories, like Robert Graves, are not discussed at all.<br />For a readable summation of the influence of Frazer's -Golden Bough-, and the other literary sources of the sort of beliefs that apparently influenced Evans, Ronald Hutton's -The Triumph of the Moon- does a much better job., and the other literary sources of the sort of beliefs that apparently influenced Evans, Ronald Hutton's -The Triumph of the Moon- does a much better job.	2002-04-09
US	51823888	R3841MVCTEO03Y	0826321933	707032291	Wisconsin Death Trip	Books	5	25	30	N	Y	The Good Old Days	Ah, the Good Old Days!  that time when the men and women were wrapped like a warm blanket in Christian piety.  When boys and girls grew up straight and tall, amid swimming holes and Sunday schools, and read aloud in the public schools from the Protestant Bible.  When men bore the guns that kept us free on their broad shoulders, and women were demure, graceful, with chaste and untroubled souls.<br />This remarkable collection of photographs --- many depicting funerals and similarly mournful scenes --- and the accompanying anthology of ephemeral journalism will go a long way towards showing that this, like any other lost Eden, never really existed.  These people had other virtues, of course: they lived in the presence of death; they cultivated a sort of stoicism in the face of hard lives made harder by the rise of national capitalism.<br />It seems that people in rural Wisconsin were heirs to the same failures that all flesh is heir to.  People committed adultery back then, and bore children out of wedlock.  People went mad back then, and often expressed their madness in violence.  There was drunkenness, grinding loneliness, indifference to neighbours, and murder.  They coped with problems, too, that we have managed to conquer: most notably, epidemic disease, and wholly inadequte health care.  It is good to remember this when this period is portrayed as a golden age of piety and patriotism.	2002-04-08
US	51823888	R39YPK9RNIGCU1	3822812986	985872536	Leonhart Fuchs: The New Herbal of 1543 (Klotz)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A wonder to behold	It's perhaps rather presumptuous, reviewing a book I can hardly read.  But this book is mostly to look at, though it may be useful to occult herbalists who are well-versed in High German.  Fortunately, Fuchs's text gives Greek and Latin names for the various plants, and the appended materials catalogue them by English and current scientific Latin names.<br />The chief attraction here, though, is the woodcuts.  This is a facsimile of Fuchs's own, carefully coloured, edition of this early printed work.  The line art itself is awesome, easily superior to that found in the edition of Culpeper I own, and allows those plants depicted in it to be easily identified by those who know them.  The added colours, which graced only a handful of costly copies, are delicate and well preserved, and seem usually accurate.  It is as much for these careful illustrations as for Fuchs's own text that this work remains interesting.<br />The text itself is in a nonstandard early version of High German, printed in a beautiful if hard to read Fraktur-style black letter font.  As the prefatory material points out, Fuchs was a medical traditionalist, maintaining that Greek medicine was superior to the newfangled versions imported secondhand from Islamic countries, apparently because it partook of the pure wisdom of antiquity.<br />Fuchs fully subscribed to the doctrine of the four humours and the four elements, and his text is geared towards that theory.  The indications of the medical virtues of the herbs reflect a shotgun approach; it seems there are few human ailments that aren't helped by some, often dozens of them.  Empirically, we know now that some work better than others.  A brief English commentary at the end discusses some of Fuchs's prescriptions, and considers the remaining validity of his theories about the virtues of the various plants in question.<br />This is a feast for the eyes, and at once scientific and arcane.  Lovers of reproductions of classic books will want this, and herbalists or botanists may also enjoy it.s, and herbalists or botanists may also enjoy it.	2002-04-08
US	51823888	R3B4NSMB94GBIM	006029809X	517650990	The Trouble Begins: A Box of Unfortunate Events, Books 1-3 (The Bad Beginning; The Reptile Room; The Wide Window)	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	A malevolent intelligence is at work here	What grabs you first is the prose style.  The elaborate introductory letters on the backs of the books, for instance, signed with the somewhat ambiguous closing, \\"With all due respect --- Lemony Snicket.\\"  The drily witty text of the stories reads rather like Miss Manners has been up all night and drinking entirely too much coffee.<br />The authorial voice intrudes, commenting on events, and providing definitions of words.  These are sometimes congruous to those usually found in dictionaries.  They are occasionally not --- in which that incongruity is usually both a plot element, and the subject of further comment by the authorial voice.  The introduction to the concept of \\"dramatic irony\\" in the second book of the package is memorably amusing as well as educational.<br />I suspect that, as children's books, these will be appreciated mostly by highly verbal and sensitive children, those who have the ability to see behind the text and grasp exactly how their leg is being pulled.  For these children, these books will not only be amusing, but valuable: they are written in a literate style, ironically formal, and the author's intrusions introduce  a fair number of interesting words.  Appropriate adults will find entertainment here too: the literary allusions, the Baudelaires and Poes, add depth to the stories, and clues to the clued-in as to what is really happening here.<br />Children --- or adults --- who can't or won't follow the ironic premise of the series are less likely to enjoy these.	2002-03-10
US	51823888	R21ELZQOK4GXWM	0785108165	994567855	Essential Doctor Strange	Books	5	42	44	N	N	By the Hoary Hosts of Hoggoth, this is great stuff!	Cultists who oppose Harry Potter books and Dungeons and Dragons games claim that those books somehow contain instruction in real occult magic.  'Fraid not.  If you want to learn real black magic spells that actually work, you should start here.<br />The high Marvel Silver Age prose style, rich in polysyllabic adjective and epithet, seems odd and dated anymore in the mouths of mere superheroes.  But it still seems natural coming from the likes of Dr. Strange, the Ancient One, and Dormammu.  In fact, you can't imagine mystic, hyperintelligent characters speaking any other way.<br />The perennial problem with occult themes in comic books is that they seem to be full of arbitrary, drop-in plot devices that lack the campy, contrafactual charm of &quot;scientific&quot; explanations.  But Dr. Strange does it right.  The repeated use of murky characters and symbols like the Crimson Bands of Cyttorak, the Omnipotent Oshtur, the eternal Vishanti and the all-seeing Eye of Agamotto gives the magic presented here internal consistency and the appearance of a system.<br />Steve Ditko's art, of course, defined the look of Dr. Strange; it is vaguely psychedelic, much more impressionistic than the art of Jack Kirby, and well suited to drawing the weird dimensional landscapes seen here.  This material is presented as just the inked line art, without colour.  The art itself is strong enough to stand up to the loss of the original colours, which were made by primitive printing processes in the original books in any case.<br />Other classic artists who contribute here include the much cleaner and more conventionally Marvellish Bill Everett, and the dark stylings of Marie Severin.<br />Most of the important characters from the Dr. Strange mythos, including the Ancient One, Baron Mordo, the dread Dormammu, Umar the Unspeakable, and Clea are included here.<br />This book covers the entire run of Dr. Strange in -Strange Tales-, which he shared with Nick Fury, Agent of Shield.  Many of the covers that are printed here refer to the other stories, but you also get some fine Steranko cover art as a lagniappe here. True believers, assemble.  This is great stuff.y of the covers that are printed here refer to the other stories, but you also get some fine Steranko cover art as a lagniappe here. True believers, assemble.  This is great stuff.	2002-03-07
US	51823888	RTTLLB16WJ85R	0141182342	744273601	The Call of Cthulhu and Other Weird Stories (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	These are the HPLs you want	Even if you already have the Del Rey paperbacks, you may well want these.  Joshi's endnotes give both the chronology and date of first appearance of each story, and more importantly, discuss many of Lovecraft's sources and influences.  These contain many pleasant and informative surprises.  Lovecraft's wide range of interests in science and contemporary literature comes as something of a surprise to those who were brought up believing he was some kind of solitary and isolated genious.<br />The notes and introduction are also illustrative.  Joshi makes the intriguing point that the &quot;Cthulhu mythos&quot; is in fact a sort of anti-mythology; while the world's religious myths seek to justify the ways of god(s) to man, the Cthulhu mythos proposes instead that they should stay as far away from one another as they can, and suggest that the powers that rule the universe are utterly alien and hostile or indifferent.<br />The faithful of Lovecraft's mythos seem predestined by a sort of perverse grace to  seek knowledge they ought not seek.  When they at last know, it destroys them.  This note --- the quintessentially Lovecraftian note --- is perhaps the key to Lovecraft's significance and continuing popularity.  On the one hand, it links Lovecraft to the New England Puritan heritage of Nathaniel Hawthorne and Cotton Mather that runs so strongly through his tales.  On the other hand, it ties him to the broader themes of contemporary U.S. popular culture, the -X-Files-, -The Matrix-, and dozens of similar productions.  HPL deserves more credit than he is usually given for these things.	2002-02-18
US	51823888	R1ORNUZ7XBY3UA	0521425190	781433627	Modern Irish: Grammatical Structure and Dialectal Variation (Cambridge Studies in Linguistics)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An intriguing tour of the Gaeltacht	This book would be of interest mostly to scholarly readers who have mastered the material in the author's -Learning Irish-.  This is not a grammar, in the traditional sense; it is a survey of dialects, touching on the distinctive phonology of each.<br />And for such a dry subject, the book is unusually interesting.  To attempt to summarise its thesis, the author maintains in effect that each speaker of Irish is an amateur etymologist.  In the back of their minds, they have Platonic ideas of the words of the language, to which phonetic rules are applied to yield the spoken form.  The book covers the phonetic rules that guide the several surviving dialects, and explains how the similar Ur-forms of the words yield the different results they do.<br />The book thus argues for the essential unity of Irish as a language, despite the divergence of its spoken forms.  It also generates some sympathetic understanding for the cumbersome and daunting traditional orthography.	2002-01-25
US	51823888	RX3Z7CY32YUM3	091386613X	607156293	The Rider Tarot Deck	Books	5	36	41	N	N	Pamela Colman Smith	A. E. Waite always gets top billing for this.  Too little attention, I think, is paid to the achievement of Pamela Colman Smith, the artist who drew the designs that are now 'standard' and the place of beginning for Tarot card readers.<br />Smith was born in England to American parents, and grew up in Jamaica.  She toured with the theatre company of Ellen Terry and Henry Irving in the late 1890's, where she joined the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, and met Waite.  She also did a great deal of illustration work for William Butler Yeats and his brother Jack, but apart from this deck, her art found little commercial success.<br />Which is a shame, because its blend of Art Deco and Symbolism made her a fine fantasy illustrator, as well as the perfect artist for this project.  She died in 1951, and the chief fame and distribution of the Waite deck unfortunately came after this.  No one knows where she is buried.  Her deck lives on, not only in the minds of Tarot believers, but in those who like lovely things.<br />This is, of course, one of the first mass produced Tarot decks to illustrate every card.  Most of its successors take their lead from her images.<br />The flaws in the deck seem to be Waite's.  If I could find fault in this project, it is in the fact that the images tend to force interpretations onto the cards that might be read differently.  The ten of swords, for instance, could mean the achievement of an intellectual goal, as well as what is suggested by the drastic image seen here.  There is still room for a traditional deck with the simple pictures of the suit cards as well as the trumps.	2002-01-20
US	51823888	R2JEWYX7RKNAKX	0781807751	349415665	Gypsy-English/English-Gypsy Concise Dictionary (Concise Dictionaries)	Books	4	28	28	N	Y	About the only game in town for in-print Romani dictionaries	This dictionary has a number of flaws, but most of them can be worked around. It is about the only game in town for in-print Romani dictionaries. People who are curious about the language have little choice.<br />It does not have much of the scholarly apparatus that Ian Hancock's -Handbook of Vlax Romani- has. That excellent book describes a dialect of Romani from southern Rumania. This dictionary is based on two Bulgarian dialects. The two dialects seem relatively similar in vocabulary and phonology. Whether they are similar in grammar is harder to say, because minimal grammatical information is presented in this dictionary.<br />Both of these Balkan dialects seem to be relatively conservative grammatically and phonologically. They share common features, apparently, like the dropping of -n from the very common word forming suffix -ipe[n]. Their conservatism includes the retention of Indic aspirated vs. unaspirated stops as separate phonemes. As such these dialects are markedly different and more sophisticated than the English-influenced Romani described by Charles Godfrey Leland.<br />The spelling system presented her is Slavov's own. It is apparently English-derived, writing 'oo' for /u:/. No reference is made to any of the attempts to standardise Romani spelling mentioned by Hancock. Worse, the brief pronunciation guide apparently refers to British pronunciation, and as such is likely to mislead the majority of English speakers. For example, most English speakers have the same vowel in GOT and SOMber, two of Slavov's examples. Removing these ambiguities is what the IPA is for. Slavov's spelling does not distinguish between the two consonants Hancock writes as /r/ and /rr/; it is unclear whether the distinction isn't there in the dialects Slavov reports, or whether his spelling does not distinguish them.<br />But the most serious flaw of the dictionary is that it does not give the genders!  Nor does it explain whether gender has been lost in the dialects it uses --- it doesn't look that way.  Many of these are regular, and can be figured from the endings and suffixes, but still, this is important information that isn't there.<br />The vocabularies are brief, and relatively simple. Words from different dialects are occasionally distinguished; it is often clear from flipping through the lists that they differ only on minor points of phonology.<br />On the whole, the dictionary is usable despite its flaws; a sophisticated reader will be able to work around them. Those who want this will also want Hancock's grammar.s --- it doesn't look that way.  Many of these are regular, and can be figured from the endings and suffixes, but still, this is important information that isn't there.<br />The vocabularies are brief, and relatively simple. Words from different dialects are occasionally distinguished; it is often clear from flipping through the lists that they differ only on minor points of phonology.  <br />On the whole, the dictionary is usable despite its flaws; a sophisticated reader will be able to work around them. Those who want this will also want Hancock's grammar.	2002-01-20
US	51823888	R1HAJRR127JTQO	0192836560	164999662	Vathek (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	An exotic dark fantasy	Leaving aside the question of whether this book is a 'gothic' novel or not, it is a dark fantasy.  It shares with its more conventionally gothic brethren a tale of dark deeds in an exotic setting, where an alien and exciting religion is practised.<br />In the standard Gothic tale, allusions to Roman Catholicism, thought of by respectable Englishmen as a dark, oppressive, and half-pagan faith, were part of the conventional apparatus.  Beckford chose instead to imagine the world of Islam, an even more exotic milieu that added some flashes of bright colours to the dark and sorcerous background of his book.  His choice of an even more exotic setting allowed him greater freedom in portraying characters who defied social convention and fell into exotic habits of mind.<br />My understanding is that it is a matter of some debate to what extent the English text of -Vathek- is a translation from the French, or an original English composition.  I do not have the French text in front of me, but it has been represented to me that Beckford's &quot;original&quot; French is rather like the French of Oscar Wilde's -Salome-, and needed extensive editing to be acceptable to a French readership.<br />At any rate, -Vathek- is a prime example of early dark fantasy.  The description, of course, will be richer than you are used to, but Beckford's prose actually seems to move quite quickly.  Fans of H. P. Lovecraft or Clark Ashton Smith will find that it is quite easy to slip into.  And the tale is indeed a vivid one, right up to the exceptional ending when Vathek and Carathis are damned to the halls of Eblis, their hearts seared with unquenchable fire.<br />This is a good edition of the story, and the notes and maps are helpful.	2002-01-14
US	51823888	R2CIS8QQO22JFI	0500280681	86183801	Alphabetic Labyrinth: The Letters in History and Imagination	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Poetic, mystical, and literary associations of the alphabet	This book on the history of the alphabet is focused on Western and Semitic scripts; it pays little heed to the alphabetic scripts of South Asia.  This book seems more concerned with mystical and artistic elaborations of the alphabetic symbols than with its actual use as a writing system.  It focuses on things like the Kabbalah, calligraphic styles, and the changes wrought on attitudes to the alphabet wrought by the invention of printing.  Parts of it seem a history of concepts used by other scholars attempting to determine the history and origin of the alphabet, rather than a new contribution to the alphabet's history.<br />Those who wish a more sober account of the alphabet's history, and tracing the family tree of the various alphabetic scripts, will get more mileage out of David Diringer's -The Alphabet: A Key to the History of Mankind-.  The information presented in this book, however, is interesting, if only for the fanciful ideas various people have devised around the alphabet.<br />My copy seems to have a number of typographical errors and other mistakes in it.  A long passage discusses the thought of &quot;Marcos the Gnostic.&quot;  From the context I am reasonably certain that Marcion, not &quot;Marcos,&quot; was intended.  The people of Mount Seir in the Bible are identified in the book with Kenites and Midianites; if my memory serves me, the inhabitants of Mount Seir were Edomites and Horites.  These mistakes tend to make me less inclined to trust the many passages that present data that is entirely new to me.	2001-12-09
US	51823888	R26UE5SBLMHUPG	0140137327	529290358	The World Turned Upside Down: Radical Ideas During the English Revolution (Penguin History)	Books	5	21	29	N	Y	Let justice flow like water, righteousness like a torrent	It is somewhat ironic that we have to turn to a contemporary Marxist historian for the best account of these godly people, on fire for liberty, justice, and equality.<br />And perhaps a secularising interpretation is best for contemporary readers, many of whom are probably not well enough grounded in Scripture to follow the original writings of these people.  The allusions will be lost to them, and the original texts may just seem like pious screeds without practical application.  The author's secularising interpretations will help them understand.<br />Some of these authors were definitely radical, and all may have been prone to getting carried away.  When men become free to choose what they believe, some will inevitably choose things that seem wrong.  I do think that the author tries too hard to suggest serious unorthodoxy on their part.<br />As a whole, though, they seem steeped in the spirit of the Hebrew prophets.  The very notion of a Christian Left seems almost inconceivable to people in the USA today.  The influence on the revolutionary generation in colonial America seems obvious as well.  To hear the stories of these Diggers, Levellers, and Ranters is to point out a path not taken: an early and Christian counterculture.	2001-11-26
US	51823888	RCBPD4BKC29A6	055338063X	734923060	From Bauhaus to Our House	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Hilarious, edifying, and to the point	After &quot;The Painted Word,&quot; Wolfe's somewhat rambling but perspicacious identification of -theory- as the incubus of contemporary plastic art, Wolfe took on architecture.<br />The result is far more to the point, and quite entertaining to read.  What galls, mostly, is the loss of artisanship.  My state used to have an industry where skilled stonecarvers whacked out Corinthian capitals and Art Deco embellishments in limestone.  We no longer do, and here is why.<br />A word in your ear, Mr. Wolfe. About atonal, serialist, and stochastic music.  Sic 'em.	2001-11-23
US	51823888	RD19OW7G2KFB1	0688029507	561658417	Decadence: Radical nostalgia, narcissism, and decline in the seventies	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Surprisingly prescient	I remembered being quite impressed by this book when I read it many years ago as an undergraduate.  Having picked it up recently, I find it has aged fairly well.  While it probably needs revision to bring it up to date, its core thesis is still cogent.<br />Hougan's &quot;decadence&quot; is actually a conservative critique of contemporary capitalism, and its dance with countercultural style.  He points out how its notion of style and &quot;lifestyle&quot; represent an inheritance from the various cultural movements of the 1950's and 1960's, and chronicles the breakup of the original &quot;counterculture&quot; into its various balkanised subcultures as seen today.  The vast majority of these subcultures, moreover, are coopted by high capitalism, which uses them as marketing opportunities.  This part seems quite prescient.<br />The part that fares somewhat less well concerns his vision of technological stalemate.  There are, indeed, problems that technology cannot conquer; but we don't seem to have hit any of them yet.  Hougan's basic faith is that when technological breakdown comes, the balkanised culture and the people who inhabit it will find themselves unable to cope.<br />Written in a bizarre but readable and indeed vivid style, this book remains a memorable social critique.  His argument contains quite a few gaps, but you can probably fill them in given the inclination; a more connected style would make the book drier and duller.<br />His criticism of subcultural balkanisation, the superficiality of it all, and how it is cultivated by marketing, remains memorable.  These are things that do not feed the soul.<br />A reissue, or better, a revised edition would remain welcome.	2001-11-19
US	51823888	R2PF820X7TXEV	0312873492	161161680	Hope's End (Vel Chronicles)	Books	5	1	4	N	Y	Does William Blake deserve this?  Hmmmmm. . . .	William Blake features as a central figure in this book, and in fact is in some remote sense one of the villains.  The real target, though, is not so much the historical Blake as it is the late twentieth century's versions of nature romanticism and &quot;small is beautiful&quot; ideologies.<br />The dystopian future setting of this book is ruled by an enfeebled monarchy, and an authoritarian Church that forbids reading, and hoards a small cache of remaining technology which it uses to bedazzle an ignorant and oppressed population.  The teachings of this Church seem to stem from this romantic, back to nature philosophy.<br />This critical philosophical and political content lends stature to what is in essence the old story of a thief who learns of his surprising heritage.  As a result, this is a book that can be read on multiple levels, either as straight adventure and mystery or as a philosophical critique.  The slow revelations of more details about both the history of the world, and the history of the main character, are handled well and sustain interest and suspense.	2001-10-03
US	51823888	R3517E6FEBQVD	0895261715	427240337	The Conservative Mind: From Burke to Eliot	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Conservatism seems to have changed remarkably	It is truly astounding how little Kirk's vision of conservatism resembles the versions heard most often in contemporary politics.<br />One repeated note throughout this book is that markets and economic forces are disruptive and need to be tamed.  Alternative sources of human values, other than what they command in a wide-open economy, must be preserved.  The market, left unchecked, has the potential to overrun settled ways of life, to undermine religious faith, and to coarsen standards of behaviour.  While this is not Kirk's only point, it is the one that seems most conspicuous today.<br />This is a remarkable insight, especially coming from someone who obviously rejoices in the name of Conservative.  We are used to seeing &quot;conservatves&quot; as the money party, a body of apologists for entrenched financial interests, interested chiefly in free markets and free trade, and somewhat heedless of the human costs.  Upward mobility is more important than social stability.  Indeed, this viewpoint is so deeply engrained in the United States that it is hard to imagine what form a political challenge to it could take at this stage.<br />The chief difficulty is that conservatism of this sort becomes largely a matter of -taste-.  Human relations take precedence over economies or formal hierarchy.  Understatement, mercy, and discretion are as important as any programme of laws.  How to translate this question of taste into something that can play in a democracy, especially a democracy whose electoral processes are so in thrall to financial powers already, is something I cannot begin to answer.	2001-10-01
US	51823888	R3MRNJ2193QV00	155753134X	567593329	Veil of Fear: Nineteenth-Century Convent Tales	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	Gothic tales of strange rites in our midst	This book contains two reprints of hard to find 19th century books.  The first, Reed's -Six Months in a Convent-, is a factual if unsympathetic account by a former student and novice at an Ursuline convent school in Charlestown, Massachussetts.  The convent was burnt to the ground by a mob shortly before the book was published, after one of the nuns attempted to escape and was persuaded to return, and a rumour was started that she was being held against her will.  Reed died shortly after its publication, of tuberculosis that was said to be the result of the austerities she practised.<br />The second and more interesting of the two books is the more well known -Awful Disclosures of the Hotel-Dieu Nunnery- by Maria Monk.  This is a fictitious libel, but its seriousness is undermined by the fantastic story told.  A warren of secret passages and other Gothic trappings honeycomb the convent.  The nuns are there basically to serve as a harem for Roman Catholic priests.  Bizarre religious justifications are urged on the sisters for this practise.  Any children they beget are first baptised, then slaughtered, and buried in a secret cemetery in the convent.  This lurid tale is better told than Reed's; Monk, or her amanuenses, were better writers than Reed's.<br />Monk's tale, of course, was a deliberate hoax, made to capitalise on the fame and market for anti-Catholic horror stories.  Since Reed's book became a best-seller, an even more extravagant story had every good prospect of making money.  Unfortunately, not for Maria Monk, who made little from her tale.  She had apparently suffered a brain injury in her childhood that left her unable to distinguish fact from fantasy, and as such was a perfect and convincing patsy for her collaborators in creating this tale.  She also died young in distressing circumstances.<br />Roman Catholics were an exotic species in early 19th century America.  They were the subject of more or less traditional hostility from Protestant Americans.  The secrecy of the cloister, and the exotic rituals and language of the Roman Church, made the Gothic literary style a good fit to write anti-Catholic fictions.  Maria Monk's book is in fact largely in the tradition of -The Monk-, Matthew Lewis's lurid fictional tale of a priest who made a bargain with the Devil for carnal pleasure.<br />At this distance, when the right of Roman Catholics to practice their faith stands on a firmer foundation than it did in the early 19th century, those who take pleasure in lurid Gothic tales may also take pleasure in these as well.  They are not great literature.  They are, however, historically significant.  And if you can put aside indignation --- excited either by the tales they tell, or the fact that they were ever published --- they are simultaneously sad, exciting, and ironically amusing, just like the best Gothic fiction.<br />The editor's introduction, unfortunately, seems to advance airy academic notions that are unlikely, but all too familiar.  The hypothesis is ventured that the destroyed convent was a threat to Bostonians and their &quot;patriarchy&quot; because it represented a community of sexually independent and educated women.  Toni Morrison is invoked to support this notion.  Reading her introduction, you could almost forget that she's talking about nuns bound by oaths of obedience to a male hierarchy.  Rebecca Reed's indignant descriptions of debasing penances seem more informed by a spirit of liberation than the introduction.ns.  The secrecy of the cloister, and the exotic rituals and language of the Roman Church, made the Gothic literary style a good fit to write anti-Catholic fictions.  Maria Monk's book is in fact largely in the tradition of -The Monk-, Matthew Lewis's lurid fictional tale of a priest who made a bargain with the Devil for carnal pleasure.  <br />At this distance, when the right of Roman Catholics to practice their faith stands on a firmer foundation than it did in the early 19th century, those who take pleasure in lurid Gothic tales may also take pleasure in these as well.  They are not great literature.  They are, however, historically significant.  And if you can put aside indignation --- excited either by the tales they tell, or the fact that they were ever published --- they are simultaneously sad, exciting, and ironically amusing, just like the best Gothic fiction.<br />The editor's introduction, unfortunately, seems to advance airy academic notions that are unlikely, but all too familiar.  The hypothesis is ventured that the destroyed convent was a threat to Bostonians and their &quot;patriarchy&quot; because it represented a community of sexually independent and educated women.  Toni Morrison is invoked to support this notion.  Reading her introduction, you could almost forget that she's talking about nuns bound by oaths of obedience to a male hierarchy.  Rebecca Reed's indignant descriptions of debasing penances seem more informed by a spirit of liberation than the introduction.	2001-09-09
US	51823888	R1SN34KC73U2EA	0500282498	496178817	The Language of the Goddess	Books	2	18	116	N	N	The last gasp of an aged, dated theory	What Gimbutas offers, basically, is a version of the old Aryan myth with a different spin. She invites you to root for the other side. The Indo-European conquerors were cruel, \\"patriarchal\\" warlords who displaced a universal cultural utopia that once prevailed throughout Europe. At least for the Indo-Europeans, we know what they shared: a language, at least. The construction of this monolithic culture requires that some faceless dolls or the curlicues on pottery must bear a great load of symbolic meaning.<br />If the Aryan myth is wrong, then Gimbutas cannot be right.	2001-09-08
US	51823888	R32JJ72UEGX2OE	0684826305	379927993	The Golden Bough	Books	3	45	55	N	N	A literary monument, but. . .	Imagine a professor who lectured, promising to reveal to you the true meaning of the Super Bowl.  He tells you that the two competing teams represent the battling cosmic forces of Summer and Winter.  The fact that the rite is enacted in January is surely significant; in the dead of winter, it follows the Winter Solstice.  The fact that the game is played on a Sunday is mere Christian veneer over ancient truths.  The various young women who accompany the teams, and who parade around half-naked in January and lead cheers are symbols of the fertility of the coming spring.  Significantly, the ball somewhat resembles an egg.  Obviously, the Super Bowl is a relic of an ancient rite, and hides relics of ancient beliefs which only a professor of comparative religion can reveal.<br /><br />If you find this account of the true meaning of the Super Bowl convincing, you may also find Frazer's thesis appealing.  What it takes is a studied rejection of the explanations various people have of their own customs.  Just about any annual custom, or one that involves fire, or vegetation, can be pressed into the system with a little creative re-interpretation.<br /><br />There are parts of this book --- the parts that deal with taboos, or with sympathetic magic in general --- that still remain convincing.  The large thesis, though, is more important as a literary monument than as anthropology.  It did influence literally hundreds of writers great and small, from T. S. Eliot and James Joyce on down.  Students of these writers need to know this book.  They need not be convinced by it.	2001-09-03
US	51823888	R3I5WN52ZH60CJ	0838634109	152321689	Lunatic Lovers of Language: Imaginary Languages and Their Inventors	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Informative, but not always clear	This is an interesting academic survey of one of my favourite subjects: the invention of private languages: whether to adorn science fiction and fantasy, or for personal use. While the book touches on such creations as Esperanto, meant to be used and useful, this is not its chief focus. There is also a helpful overview of languages invented in works of fiction, such as Jack Vance's -The Languages of Pao- and Samuel Delaney's -Babel-17-.<br /><br /> Its most admirable and useful feature is its convenient synopsis of the basic grammar and morphology of the Martian and other languages created by Helene Smith, as publicised by Theodore Flournoy in -From India to the Planet Mars-. The analysis of the syntax and the sound systems of her creations is intriguing, and should be read by any author wishing to create a fictional language of her own.<br /><br /> The book also discusses at great length the theories of Nicholas Marr, a linguist who had some influence on Stalin, and who hypothesised the natural evolution of a common language for the future. The extensive treatment of Marr seems less in keeping with the subject annnounced in the title. Marr did have some curious notions on the reconstruction of the languages of the past, but the main thrust of his theory seems empirical rather than imaginary.<br /><br /> A more serious flaw is in the writing style, which shows traits of the worst of contemporary academia. It goes beyond being merely formal or pedantic: that much is forgivable, for it is, after all, an academic book. The problems, instead, reflect the failings of the times. Puns are occasionally treated as containing great insights. When the author occasionally gets sidetracked into sexual or political topics, she deploys the tactic of vaguely radical obscurity. Fortunately, these digressions are not frequent.<br /><br /> This book is not for everyone, but for those happy few who are interested in the subject of invented languages, it may well be worth a look.	2001-08-25
US	51823888	R35DW6XO2HMTNU	0500019428	649548304	Hypnerotomachia Poliphili: The Strife of Love in a Dream	Books	5	65	69	N	Y	Gods, and bulls, and naked Greeks	This is fascinating.  It attempts not only to translate Colonna's mixed Latin/Italian texts, but also to reproduce the look and feel of the original 1499 Aldine edition.  Of course, all the woodcuts are there, and the typeface and layout also attempt to reproduce the original, which has long been famed as one of the most beautiful books ever printed.<br /><br />The architectural and other illustrations are strange, but they are perhaps the most intriguing thing about the book.  Some are reminiscent of Beardsley; others bring to mind Baudelaire's vision of a city made entirely of marble and metal, from which all plants have been banished as asymmetrical.<br /><br />It will take quite a while to get through this.  The peculiar mixed-language flavour of Colonna's prose is hard to reproduce in translation.  The work is a long list of vaguely erotic dream-processions of gods and bulls and naked Greeks, with extensive descriptions of the architectural settings they appear in.  With its unsparing strings of superlatives, it often reads like the florid descriptions of dishes found on the menu of an overreaching restaurant.<br /><br />In other words, I may not finish this, but it is fun to look at.	2001-08-09
US	51823888	RN93WW84S375H	0943151341	128562547	Gloom Cookie Volume 1 (v. 1)	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	A supernatural story wrapped in a comedy of manners	What strikes me most about this graphic novel is the skilful plotting, and its skilful blend of a supernatural tale with humour.  It begins as a comedy of manners, satirizing goth clubgoers and their social and sexual mores.<br /><br /> This wrapper, however, conceals an elaborate tale concerning monsters and freaks who seek to escape a mysterious carnival.  Of course, we're dealing with -Dark Shadows- fans, so some of the monsters are sympathetic, even lovable; it is not a tale of trite physical terror.  Various characters introduced as mere humans are revealed to have parts in the supernatural side of the tale.<br /><br />  The clever interweaving of the satirical social vignettes with the ongoing supernatural saga gives both stories stature they would not have on their own.  The art is generally quite good, toony but straightforward, and captures the mood well.	2001-08-02
US	51823888	R2YGWM5ERWYNCC	1582402000	9956773	Age of Bronze, Vol. 1: A Thousand Ships	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A breathtaking vision of the Trojan War	Graphic novelist Eric Shanower here presents a stunning interpretation of the age of the Trojan War in this, the first of a proposed seven-volume set of tales covering the events from the judgment of Paris to the fall of Troy.  This one, the first, covers the judgment of Paris, the abduction of Helen, and the mustering of the Greek forces at Aulis.<br /><br /> The attention to historical detail is well researched and convincing.  The Trojans are convincingly placed within the cultural orbit of the Hittites and Anatolians, making the Trojan War simultaneously a clash of cultures and a geopolitical struggle as well as a jilted husband's quest for revenge.  Supernatural elements and the presence of gods and goddesses are deliberately understated in order to focus on the human element.  The characterisations of the protagonists are vastly assisted by the graphic novel format.  Paris comes off as cocky and chaotic; Odysseus, a crafty elder statesman among the Greek kings; and Achilles is a pretty-boy, convincingly able to hide among the women at Skyros.  Each character is drawn as an individual human being in the outstanding line art.<br /><br /> It is especially welcome to see a literary interpretation of a mythological subject that seems minimally influenced by bogus notions out of turn of the century anthropology from Sir James Frazer, Robert Graves, and their followers.  Instead, as the author-artist's afterword makes clear, current scholars have been consulted in the framing of this tale, and Dr. Manfred Korfman is singled out as having influenced this envisioning of the period.  This is a beautiful book.  I am eagerly awaiting the next of the series.	2001-07-08
US	51823888	R1OGAAUUDFGEHW	0715614703	291018120	Latin Phrase Book (Latin Language)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Roget's Thesaurus for Latin composition	This little book would be helpful to anyone who wishes to write in Latin.  What you are getting is, in essence, a Roget's style thesaurus of Latin idioms and phrases, organised loosely by the topics to which they relate.  Given this fact, calling this a &quot;Latin phrase book&quot; is slightly misleading.<br /><br /> The topical arrangement presents minor problems; it is always possible to quarrel with the chosen classification of any particular phrase, or suggest that it should have been put in another topic.  There is an alphabetical index in the back that may help you find the right place, though.<br /><br /> The idioms in the book are largely geared to classical times.  You get an ample selection of Roman military, political, and legal terms.  Only in a handful of places is there any attempt at supplying terms more appropriate for discussing modern life.  The idioms, moreover, are strongly weighted towards classical Latin; Christian Latin usage is mostly neglected.<br /><br /> It is reasonably helpful for those who would write Latin.  So, despite the misleading title, this is a handy little book.	2001-07-05
US	51823888	R2IBOMC53G99PQ	0285621610	189926765	Latin Can Be Fun	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Misleading title	This book is misleadingly titled.<br />&quot;Latin Can Be Fun&quot; suggests a work that should contain more actual humour than this one does.<br /><br /> Instead, this curious little book seems to be a very conventional foreign language phrase book that just happens to be in Latin.  The author apparently considers this concept to be enough of a joke that little effort was made to make the contents funny.  It is nothing like the &quot;Latin for All Occasions&quot; series; in that series, there is some humour in the Latin translations of contemporary buzzwords.<br /><br /> In fact, some people do speak Latin and attempt to converse in it.  This book has minimal grammatical helps of the kind that would enable a user to try to make herself understood in Latin.  If it ain't already there, you're out of luck.<br /><br /> The best feature of the book is its attempts at coining new words for features of modern life unknown to Cicero.  A dictionary or word index would have been helpful to assist the reader in finding them, though.	2001-06-28
US	51823888	R2CIKE6ENTIZ2E	0140296271	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	4	5	14	N	N	Excellent, but of limited scope	This book does an excellent job of detailing the inadequate response of Pius XII to the Holocaust.  The best thing that could be said about him is that the courage of the martyrs and saints was not his.<br /><br /> What would be useful, though, is a more extensive treatment of the intellectual background of Fascism, especially as it relates to Roman Catholicism and &quot;conservative&quot; movements of the early 20th century.  It seems astonishing to -us- that intelligent and creative people were ever drawn to Fascism; but Gabriele d'Annunzio and Ezra Pound surely were, and many more of their contemporaries admired aspects of it.<br /><br /> Without the context supplied by:<br /><br /> -Quanta Cura- and the Syllabus of Errors, which condemned democracy, secular education, and the modern world in general;<br /><br /> -Rerum Novarum- and -Quadragesimo Anno-, which attempted to respond to the challenge of Marxism by advocating a corporatist state organised around military lines, and governed by a strong executive leader who orders the economy and adjudicates differences between class and ethnic groups;<br /><br /> the intellectual foundation behind Pius XII's apparent sympathy with Nazi Germany is incomplete.  These Papal documents were in fact cited in the constitutions of Falangist Spain and Vichy France.<br /><br /> Of course, the book that covered all these subjects would not be as focused on the Holocaust or World War II, the subjects which the author here chose to address.  It would be a general history of authoritarian right-wing movements in 20th century Europe.  But without this background, Pius's indifference astounds, but seems unprecedented.  With it, you can see more clearly why authoritarian governments appealed to an authoritarian Church.  And with this background, we can update the lessons of history as they apply to cultural conservatism and nostalgia for an allegedly virtuous past today.	2001-06-18
US	51823888	R2D7ARGGZ44W6E	0862414490	469805783	City Of Dreadful Night (Canongate Classic)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Lovely was the grave to me; holy its darkness. . .	James &quot;B.V&quot; (stands for Bysshe Vanolis, a pseudonym he sometimes adopted) Thomson composed this long poem while wandering the streets of London, tormented by insomnia and what he called &quot;melencholia,&quot; what we would probably call clinical depression.<br /><br /> His portrait of his mental state also became a portrait of an industrial society, and the vanity and pointlessness of its various sorts of activity and effort.  His City of Dreadful Night, a true city of despair, held up a dark mirror to the urban England of his day, filled with faithless churches, empty and ultimately unrewarding activity, and the despair of grinding poverty.<br /><br /> In an age so filled with self-improvement twaddle and the cult of positive thinking, such a poem actually seems like a breath of fresh air.  It ends with a splendid portrait of D&uuml;rer's Melencolia.	2001-06-16
US	51823888	R2UVETYECDO5FL	0192862057	210893814	Mapping Time: The Calendar and Its History	Books	5	13	17	N	N	An intriguing compendium of obscure lore	Designing calendars is one of the more difficult tasks that human beings have set themselves.  You first needed to -determine- the lengths of the cycles of the solar year and the lunar month.  This was not an easy task, and it was not achieved until well into recorded history.<br /><br /> The various cycles don't fit into each other particularly easily, either.  With a solar year of just under 365.25 days, and a lunar month of just over 29.5 days, you aren't going to get it to come out even in the short run.  You can stick with the sun and ignore the moon --- the solution of the Roman calendar fixed by Julius Cæsar.  You can go with the moon, and leave the seasons to fall where they may --- as Muhammad, the desert-dwelling prophet of Islam, chose.<br /><br />  Or you can try to keep the moon and sun tied together, necessarily loosely.  This requires a number of cumbersome kludges, as the Babylonians, the Jews, the Chinese, and the Christians who fixed the date of Easter all discovered.  These calendars took a lot more thought than the ones that simply discarded one or the other heavenly lights, and rank among the most intricate and intriguing works of ancient astronomy.<br /><br /> This book contains a complete listing and description of the several solutions people have come up with to this seemingly intractable problem of arithmetic.	2001-06-13
US	51823888	RP7S95N4MVT13	038549890X	211011926	In the Beginning: The Story of the King James Bible and How it Changed a Nation, a Language, and a Culture	Books	5	86	89	N	Y	Focuses on language and doctrine	This book on the origin of the Authorised Version or &quot;King James&quot; Bible contrasts well with another recent book on the same subject, Benson Bobrick's -Wide as the Waters-.<br /><br /> The Bobrick book focuses on history and personalities, and since it must cover a lot of ground, covering virtually the whole period of the English Reformation from the standpoint of its effects on Bible translations, any given sketch must necessarily be superficial.  Bobrick's brief chapter on the period of the English Civil War and its resonance through later English and American history is particularly sketchy, though it would be informative to the too many people who may be exposed to this bit of history for the first time.<br /><br /> McGrath, by contrast, is a professional theologian.  His book focuses only slightly on personalities, but he digs into the texts.  Particularly enlightening is his discussion of the text and annotations of the Geneva Bible; he explains exactly why some of these inoffensive seeming notes actually gave annoyance to high churchmen and royal absolutists.  He also extensively discusses the conservatism of the King James Bible in both language and translation, and contrasts even its grammar with that used by contemporary writers like Shakespeare.<br /><br /> Those who are unfamiliar with the English Reformation may find the Bobrick book more enlightening.  People who have some familiarity with the period, and are interested in the doctrines and language of these Bibles will find McGrath more interesting.	2001-05-17
US	51823888	R3FRV1HCR8TQZV	0824055616	800966454	SHADOW OF DEATH (Degeneration and regeneration : texts of the premodern era)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Pretty little stories of death	Count Stanislas Eric Stenbock was the heir to an ancient Swedish noble house.  During the &quot;Yellow&quot; 1890's, he wrote these tales of sweet oblivion in a florid style, writing in English, his adopted language.  While he is often characterised as a horror writer, his tales often speak less of the struggles of the terrified, and more of a hunger for deliquescence and oblivion.  At its best, his prose is sometimes reminiscent of Conrad.	2001-05-13
US	51823888	R3J3YUIGA6FVHD	0316326593	495047286	Slugs	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Why, there are Slugs that know karate!	Go ahead.  Be a bad influence.  Give this book to a child.<br /><br /> In a day when children's literature seems full of tiresome passivism, and as full of sermons as any Victorian tract, it's a fine and excellent thing to see a children's book that talks about what they want to hear.  Like putting slugs in a blender.  Or gluing them to your sister.  If this seems lacking in Moral Instruction, take note that those who mistreated slugs get their comeuppance by the book's end.<br /><br /> I got this book for my nieces, and it soon became one of their favourites.  And let's face it, this is a lot healthier for them to furnish their minds with than -Bambi-.	2001-05-10
US	51823888	R1BXQ863VB8TOX	0486217612	14173044	The World as Will and Representation, Vol. 1	Books	5	33	34	N	N	The first evolutionary psychologist	What do humans' social wish for power and their instinctual drives do to their attempts to create knowledge?  What does the fact that our minds were created by evolution mean for us?<br /><br /> Schopenhauer thought hard about these issues that remain vital today, and his answers continue to ring true today.  Schopenhauer, it is true, was hampered by writing before -The Origin of Species- appeared, but he managed to have figured out most of the implications of evolution prior to Darwin.  Schopenhauer's evolutionary psychology is far more convincing and cogent than the &quot;social Darwinism&quot; associated with Spencer and Sumner, because he questions whether the struggle for existence -ought- to be given free rein.<br /><br /> And in the same way, Schopenhauer asks similar questions to those that were asked in the 1960's by Michel Foucault.  Given that humans are wilful animals, motivated by power and other desires, in what sense can their attempts at knowledge, or their attempts to express it, ever be reliable?  Or are they all somehow tainted by this wilfulness?<br /><br /> In his notion that all life is the result of a blind, unconscious Will, Schopenhauer also was a major influence on Freud, whose conception of the unconscious owes so much to this work.  His ultimate conclusion, though, is not pretty.  Life is evil because it requires pain: hunger, lust, and anger are goads that whip us into serving life's agenda, which we might not have chosen upon reflection.  The requirement of desire as motivator means that life always carries with it a necessary measure of pain.<br /><br /> Not a happy conclusion, but a seemingly inevitable one.  Schopenhauer is also to be praised for his style: writing about things that most people can in fact understand, he sees little use for jargon, and is rich in example.  He is a pleasure to read after Hegel or Kant.	2001-05-07
US	51823888	R2QT9CAMY6OCAA	091626100X	955940032	Nights Master	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Strong prose and a richly imagined world	Fantasy, ultimately, depends on description to carry it.  The more alien the landscapes and psychologies an author wishes to describe, the more she must rely on her style and vocabulary to carry it off.<br /><br /> -Night's Master- kicks off the Flat Earth series, about a richly imagined, glittering, world of cruel and proud daemons.  What ultimately carries off the story of Azhrarn is Tanith Lee's strong prose style.  You can tell that she must have been the victim of a classical education.	2001-04-30
US	51823888	R37SUUUECKE5IJ	0877791325	839226147	Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of English Usage	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A dictionary to happily leaf through	The witty and drily humourous entries of this dictionary make it one of those books you can leaf through endlessly, learning something on every page.<br /><br /> Those who claim that this usage handbook is too lenient, or defends bad usage, seem to object chiefly to the fact that the authors here state their conclusions in terms of what is really at stake --- &quot;if you write 'X', you are at risk of being corrected&quot; --- rather than simply labelling them &quot;wrong,&quot; as if some kind of moral judgment was being passed.<br /><br />  Fortunately, the many examples of each contested usage set forth in this book ultimately allow the reader to make up her own mind about the prestige and literary precedents that the word or phrase she's wondering about might carry.  This approach strikes me as vastly preferable to Fowler's ipse-dixits and anti-Americanisms.<br /><br /> Of course, a book of this breadth will miss the boat occasionally, as this one does on &quot;gender&quot; where &quot;sex&quot; is meant: objectionable not so much as a genteelism, but as jargon compassing a belief system which the careful writer may not actually mean to endorse.  A number of minor or more recent controversies, like the question of whether to use a singular or plural verb when an 'and' phrase is used to add qualifying information rather than an additional item, seem to have escaped notice.  Still, this is the most thorough and up-to-date usage manual of its kind, I think.	2001-04-30
US	51823888	RVGRHO12O0ZA	0300060769	200041965	The Stripping of the Altars: Traditional Religion in England, 1400-1580	Books	3	32	134	N	N	Interesting, well researched, but ultimately unconvincing	This book attempts to present a revisionist account of the Reformation in England. It argues convincingly that there was a great deal of popular support for Roman Catholic ritual and devotional practises among the people of that time. It does not follow from that fact that allegiance to the Papacy was equally popular. Nor does it take into account the essentially disquieting content of that faith.<br />To be a Christian in those times was to ride a spiritual roller coaster. Those who stumble must be shriven in the Church before they die, lest their entire lives of faith be cancelled out by a single sin. A great deal of anxiety was therefore caused by a Church whose rituals conferred only temporary assurance of salvation, and which swung the faithful in and out of the state of grace, keeping them in constant fear.<br />Many of the devotions whose vitality is argued for seem to rather be quasi-magical practises. Mystic prayers of dubious provenance were circulated, each bearing a warrant of uncertain authority that its repetition frees the devotee's soul from Purgatory, or cancels out so many years of penance in the afterlife.  Even the Roman Catholic hierarchy felt moved occasionally to discredit some of the unlikelier devotions, especially once critical attention was being paid to them.<br />It argues that people were busy purchasing decorations and prayers in their church.  They may well have been, when they were encouraged to believe their donations were purchasing salvation for themselves and their family members.  It still seems obvious that this was a belief system ripe for replacement.<br />Of course, people are naturally conservative in matters of religious worship. Of course, change had to come from the instigation of some advanced thinkers.  It is likely that Roman Catholicism remained popular in certain areas until it discredited itself politically as well as religiously, by such major missteps as Bloody Mary's mass executions, and the attempted invasion by the Spanish Armada.<br />But ultimately, the devotions whose wide circulation is adequately demonstrated by this book display their own spiritual decrepitude and lack of consolation.  This fact seems obvious from the material presented here, and Mr. Duffy ultimately undercuts his own argument by the evidence he presents.  Their failure ultimately had something to do with the content of the belief system whose practice is evidenced here.n by the Spanish Armada. <br />But ultimately, the devotions whose wide circulation is adequately demonstrated by this book display their own spiritual decrepitude and lack of consolation.  This fact seems obvious from the material presented here, and Mr. Duffy ultimately undercuts his own argument by the evidence he presents.  Their failure ultimately had something to do with the content of the belief system whose practice is evidenced here.	2001-04-30
US	51823888	R3E54ANKFSSPGY	0820110213	349591250	Saducismus Triumphatus: Or, Full and Plain Evidence Concerning Witches and Apparitions	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fascinating folklore and strong prose	Joseph Glanvill was alarmed by what he perceived to be a rise of scepticism that accounts of witches and witch-trials were reliable.  He wrote this tome, posthumously published in 1681, to convince his contemporaries that they were still worth sniffing out.<br /><br /> Whether he makes his case or not will ultimately be up to the reader.  But what you will get is a collection of entertaining folklore, concerning not only witches, but also demon drummers and other alleged diabolical manifestations.  All of these stories are written up in a quite good seventeenth century style.<br /><br /> Glanvill strongly influenced Cotton Mather and his -Wonders of the Invisible World-, which clearly owes a great deal to this work.  [Got to hand it to Mather; he came up with a far superior title.]  Students of the Salem witch trials will want to know this book as well.	2001-04-15
US	51823888	RURQTI0DVHFI0	0899416772	55065749	Constitutional History of England: From the Accession of Henry VII to the Death of George II	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Must-read for Constitutional scholars	This book ought to be read by anyone who is interested in the meaning of the United States Constitution and the Bill of Rights.  What it will supply is a view of the meaning of the various contentious phrases of that document, by illustrating the controversies to which the Founding Fathers were replying.<br /><br /> As history, this book is seriously flawed, but even its flaws are enlightening.  Hallam's subject is the &quot;English Constitution.&quot;  Of course, there is no written English Constitution; it is a tacit understanding of the proper limits and aims of power, and as such it has changed remarkably over the many centuries of British history.  Hallam blandly assumes that the consensus of his own period is consensus that has always prevailed.  If it seemed contentious in the past ---- the several tyrannies great and petty, the civil wars and glorious revolutions, and the sundry controversies between King and Parliament --- these were the result of royal or parliamentary usurpations of authority, never reflecting adversely on the Way Things Ought to Be, which just happened to be the way things were at the time he wrote.<br /><br /> This view of things is so clich&eacute;'d that it is often labelled &quot;Whig history,&quot; the claim that the grand powers ultimately assumed by the House of Commons, in derogation of the Royal authority, really reflects an ancient and inherited order rather than a dramatic change from the former status quo.  As history -per se-, it is open to serious doubt.<br /><br /> The point is, though, that whether this history is -true- or not, people believed in it as patriotic myth, and acted as if they believed it.  This is nowhere more apparent than in the pages of the U.S. Constitution and the Bill of Rights.  The very notion of a Bill of Rights was borrowed from the events chronicled in this book.  The various usurpations that Madison thought to guard against in his amendments were aimed, not only at British colonial rule, but also against the alleged abuses of power committed by the Stuart and Tudor monarchs.  To read this  book from 1827 is to get a rare and valuable glimpse into the political habits of mind of respectably liberal English-speaking people in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries.  This gives this work continuing value.<br /><br /> A literary note: Prof. Henry Hallam, the author of this book, was the father of Arthur Hallam, Alfred, Lord Tennyson's friend, whose early death occasioned Tennyson's -In Memoriam-.leged abuses of power committed by the Stuart and Tudor monarchs.  To read this  book from 1827 is to get a rare and valuable glimpse into the political habits of mind of respectably liberal English-speaking people in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries.  This gives this work continuing value.<BR><BR> A literary note: Prof. Henry Hallam, the author of this book, was the father of Arthur Hallam, Alfred, Lord Tennyson's friend, whose early death occasioned Tennyson's -In Memoriam-.	2001-04-14
US	51823888	RS7UWXG8VLBIX	0520227921	854550694	Spectacular Bodies: The Art and Science of the Human Body from Leonardo to Now	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	The art of dissection	This is one of the most fascinating art books to cross my path in some time.  The subject is the artistic representation of human anatomy.<br /><br /> This is the occasion for a fascinating tour of curiosa.  Of course, you have a sequence of Dutch and American anatomy theatre group portraits.  More interesting is the sculptures in wax of dissection, surgical, and anatomical models, handmade by what were apparently a group of mostly Italian scupltors.  A fellow named Clemente Susini was apparently the Michaelangelo of this field.  What makes these interesting is that they are not, as in the -Gray's Anatomy- images, merely displayed.  Many are dramatically posed, in the overdone, theatrical poses of baroque painting.  The image of them gesticulating as they spill their guts is mildly disconcerting.<br /><br /> There is an extensive discussion of &eacute;corch&eacute; figures, flayed figures that display skinless human musculature.  Collections of skeletons and bones, often arranged dramatically rather than clinically, are also featured.  There is a large selection of ethnological portraits, and photographs of the insane.<br /><br /> The text is largely sympathetic to these forgotten creators who sought to combine art and science.  Identity politics and post-structuralist hoodoo intrudes only slightly on the text, much less than you'd fear given these subjects.  A fascinating book for those who are not easily disturbed.	2001-04-03
US	51823888	R37P6FS2DAQLWV	0809308088	583338077	The Most Mysterious Manuscript: The Voynich "Roger Bacon" Cipher Manuscript	Books	3	21	22	N	N	Unlikely his solution is correct	The Voynich Manuscript is a mysterious late mediæval text, written in an unknown script in an unknown language or cypher.  It reads as if written fluently, not by someone who was painfully calculating each next character, but by someone who understood what he was writing.  It looks like a curious herbal or alchemical treatise, full of diagrams of unknown plants, unknown constellations, and elaborate networks of plumbing inhabited by plump, naked, crowned women.  The text seems to contain all the redundancies expected in a natural language and then some. It can be traced back as far as the hands of Athanasius Kircher, the Jesuit polymath, who was but the first of many to have tried and failed to read the text.<br /><br />For a time, this book was the best general overview of the history of the Voynich Manuscript.  It still is a good one, though it has been superseded in that regard by Mary d'Imperio's -The Voynich Manuscript: An Elegant Enigma.-<br /><br /> Brumbaugh proposes in this book a partial &quot;solution&quot; that yields texts like ILEXER ILUS YUS PURUS POURLY ILUY YJSUUS PURUS PLUS URICUS.  These decipherments have the merit of seeming to read like the repetitious text of the manuscript itself.  He interprets this text, though, as &quot;The Elixir is a game, purely, purely a pure game; and European.&quot;  Even if he has deciphered the script, no doubt you can probably think of other interpretations on your own.<br /><br />  His method of reading seems to involve first turning the script into Arabic numerals, reading those numerals as any of several possible letters in the Latin alphabet.  He got this by forcing letters into the script based on his attempts to identify some of the plants in the diagrams, and then attempting to extract a method of reading the characters.  His decypherments are occasionally tantalising, but if this is the actual text behind the symbols, there doesn't seem to be much point in further effort.  The readings appear to be flawed by the polyvalence of the script he believes he sees.e polyvalence of the script he believes he sees.	2001-03-30
US	51823888	R2B37ETUBPFPPI	1886363226	558418633	The History of English Law Before the Time of Edward I. Second Edition. 2 Volumes: The History of English Law Before the Time of Edward I (2 vols.)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Groundbreaking and fascinating historical scholarship	The law of England underwent major changes under the energetic leadership of the Plantagenet kings.  This scholarly work traces and outlines this most fascinating and actually entertaining period in legal history.<br /><br /> Before the acts chronicled here, the business of law enforcement in all its various forms, both civil and criminal, was a rather haphazard and local affair.  Magical ordeals, often administered by the clergy, and probably fixed by them to reach what they thought the proper outcome, were a major method of trial.  Noblemen could fend off charges by their inferiors by swearing they didn't do it, and finding enough people to swear that they believed 'em.  Disputes between nobles were as often as not settled by the sword, in either actual battle or ritual combat.<br /><br /> The Plantagenet kings made this imperfect system obsolete, not by legislating it out of existence, but by offering a superior product.  They introduced the grand and petit jury, whose ultimate origins are obscure, but which may trace back to the Scandinavian ancestors of the Normans.  New forms of litigation were set up beside the old ones, only these led to the royally instituted jury rather than the old forms of trial by oaths, magic, or battle.<br /><br /> And, having this parallel system in place, attorneys were careful to frame their pleadings so as to bring their litigation within the ambit of the new trials, rather than the old ones.  These basic legal reforms, helped along by certain legal fictions made necessary to achieve the desired result, became the foundation of a legal system more suited to a national state with a central royal government, rather than the patchwork jurisdictions of feudalism.<br /><br /> This fascinating story is told in all its detail in these old but still intriguing books.	2001-03-29
US	51823888	R14LB7MRZPC9ZV	1885266847	570632785	The Spectra Hoax	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Anne Knish, I love you!	In 1916, American poets Witter Bynner and Arthur Davison Ficke had it up to wherever with Imagism, Vorticism, and several other minor isms that they thought had infected the literary world.  They set out to concoct an ism to end all isms, and devised &quot;Spectrism,&quot; a new school for experimental poetry.  To that end, they published &quot;Spectra: New Poems,&quot; with an unintelligible preface purporting to explain the name of the new ism.  Each of the Spectric poems was pretentiously titled with an opus number, like a piece of classical music.<br /><br /> Witter Bynner wrote as &quot;Emmanuel Morgan.&quot;  Morgan's persona was full of bacchanalian, bardic blatherskite, a rhyming Whitman.  Here is the opening of his &quot;Opus 6:&quot;<br /><br /> If I were only dafter<br />  I might be making hymns<br /> To the liquor of your laughter<br />  And the lacquer of your limbs.<br /><br /> Arthur Davison Ficke wrote as &quot;Anne Knish.&quot;  The name was meant to be vaguely exotic and Eastern European; apparently not many Americans had heard of knishes in 1916.  Knish is the archetypal poetess, sensual and enigmatic, vaguely scandalous.  She writes free verse.  Here is Opus 118:<br /><br /> If bathing were a virtue, not a lust<br /> I would be dirtiest.<br /><br />  To some, housecleaning is a holy rite.<br /> For myself, houses would be empty<br /> But for the golden motes dancing in sunbeams.<br /><br />  Tax-assessors frequently overlook valuables.<br /> Today they noted my jade.<br /> But my memory of you escaped them.<br /><br /> By now, the basic flaw of the hoax should be obvious.  Having endured much worse in the way of poetic experiment between now and 1916, the Spectric poems aren't that bad.  In fact, they are rather consistently entertaining, and contain some pretty good lines.  They rank among the more memorable work by Bynner and Ficke, and both writers acknowledged as much after the hoax had been exposed.	2001-03-25
US	51823888	R17Y6IMYI64A24	019871064X	479903570	Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia, and The Garden of Cyrus (Oxford Paperback English Texts)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	What song the Syrens sang; meditations on time and eternity	Sir Thomas Browne's works from the first half of the seventeenth century remain worthy of your attention.  He is an essayist, akin in spirit to his rough contemporary Montaigne.  He was yet another prose stylist of those fine days of the Stuart period, when the sun of English prose approached its zenith, only to be eclipsed by the English cultivation of melancholia.<br /><br /> The -Hydriotaphia-, or Urn Burial, is perhaps the most celebrated of these works.  Its nominal occasion is the discovery and opening of an ancient gravesite, about which Browne, a physician, writes with better archaeological method than most of his antiquarian contemporaries.  But this discovery is merely the occasion for what turns into an extended meditation on the funerary monuments of antiquity, and of the great themes of time, eternity, and the frailty of memory and fame.<br /><br /> The -Religio Medici- is a meditation, quite humane and somewhat skeptical especially given his period, on the prevailing religious doctrines and teachings of his day.  It is a prayer for peace in an age that was marked by a great deal of religious strife and contention; not surprisingly, it gave doubts to most of the warring parties as to Browne's orthodoxy.  Despite its generally skeptical tenor, it seems Browne himself was prepared to accept alchemy, astrology, and witchcraft.<br /><br /> The -Garden of Cyrus- is the most curious of these works.  Its nominal subject is the &quot;quincunx,&quot; the arrangement of five units like the fives on dice, and its use in ancient horticulture.  But it treats this slight subject with such various learning, finding quincunxes everywhere on earth and in the heavens, so that when it's over it seems that understanding the quincunx might be the key to the secrets of the universe.	2001-03-23
US	51823888	RKWXM4HNN3GNP	0802205461	358355397	Extinct Languages	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Tales of archaeological decipherment	Originally translated from the German in the late 1950's, this book leads off with the tale of the great decipherments of the nineteenth century: Egyptian hieroglyphs, the various languages using cuneiform, and the Hittite/Luwian native script.<br /><br /> It goes on to give a glimpse at some texts in languages which had not yet been fully figured as of the date of its writing, including languages for which much progress has been made, like Carian, and languages that still baffle readers, like the Rongo-Rongo script of Easter Island.<br /><br /> The information here is dated, but its chief value is to whet one's interest in the intriguing world of archaeological decipherments.  It's no wonder it went through many reprints and is relatively easy to find.	2001-03-22
US	51823888	RVMTVAK069E9T	9991815252	780227799	Biblia Sacra Iuxta Vulgatam Versionem (104208)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The cornerstone of later Latin prose	This is, of course, the Bible of Gutenberg, the version that held authoritative sway in Europe for more than a millennium, and remains, at least in theory, the authoritative version of the Scriptures for Roman Catholics.<br /><br /> As to the text itself, it's the Bible.  Your opinion is probably already fixed.  Of course, it contains the apocryphal or &quot;deuterocanonical&quot; books that are included by Roman Catholics. Jerome's style, though, echos throughout just about all Latin literature that came after this sonorous and influential book; and it is that style I would praise.<br /><br />  Latin literature was trapped in a maze of Greek fiddle-faddle.  The schools of Greek rhetoric, and the reverence paid at Rome to Greek literature, fostered a convoluted prose style that is generally unlike the glimpses of native Roman style that sometimes break through in Caesar, Cato, or Tacitus.<br /><br /> In poetry, the situation was even worse.  Roman poets had to break their metre on the Procrustean bed of Greek prosody, and there are literally dozens of native Latin words that simply cannot be made to fit.  Contrived syntax and distorted grammar are everywhere.<br /><br /> The sonorous literature of the Hebrew scriptures, written by men whose notions of rhetoric were wholly different, and the plainspoken Greek of the Koine New Testament, cleared away the cobwebs.  Jerome was actually the heir to a tradition of several centuries of Bible-writing in Latin; his task, like the task of the King James Bible committee, was as much of comparison and revision as it was of producing an entirely new translation.<br /><br /> Jerome's Bible was call the &quot;Vulgate,&quot; largely because it was intended to be heard, used, and understood by its readers and hearers.  His Latin is occasionally sniffed at by Ciceronians, because its usage follows the popular usage of Christians more closely than those who conformed to the Grecianizing norms of pagan schools.<br /><br /> Likewise, the powerful example of the Psalms went far in creating a new school of native poetry in Latin.  This new poetry revived the accentual metres that had lived on in the twilight since the earliest days of the Saturnian metre.  And, being made by the natural rhythms of the Latin language, it was usually clearer in syntax and freer in image than the poems in the Greek metres.<br /><br /> Late in the Empire, this Bible broke the chains that had held back Latin literature.  Its influence on Latin prose runs as deep as the influence of Tyndale's Bible on English prose.the Psalms went far in creating a new school of native poetry in Latin.  This new poetry revived the accentual metres that had lived on in the twilight since the earliest days of the Saturnian metre.  And, being made by the natural rhythms of the Latin language, it was usually clearer in syntax and freer in image than the poems in the Greek metres.<BR><BR> Late in the Empire, this Bible broke the chains that had held back Latin literature.  Its influence on Latin prose runs as deep as the influence of Tyndale's Bible on English prose.	2001-03-21
US	51823888	R1QHO85ADCIL5U	0198123493	700971368	002: Holy Living and Holy Dying: Volume II: Holy Dying (|c OET |t Oxford English Texts)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	The most beautiful prose in the English language	While this is a rather high price to pay for this now hard to find English spiritual classic, it is worth every penny.<br /><br /> Jeremy Taylor seems to be one of those authors that no one reads anymore; at least judging from the fact that his works are so hard to come by now.  &quot;Holy Living and Holy Dying&quot; was once on every bookshelf, and it deserves to be.<br /><br /> As to its value as a spiritual tract, it was one of the works that John Wesley prized, and a profound influence on his life.  I am no theologian, and have no special competence to critique the doctrine or spiritual presented here, though it seems unobjectionable and thoroughly orthodox, and enjoyable by Christians of any denomination.  Southey's original -Father William- poem tells us that it was once a virtue to think and speak of death.  Jeremy Taylor reminds us why.<br /><br /> It is Taylor's exalted prose style, at once solemn and rapturous, at once lush and austere, that draws me again and again to his writing.  His majestic and mellifluous words, devoted here to the grand themes of the Christian life and hope, of mortality and eternity, are what drew in Samuel Taylor Coleridge and Thomas DeQuincey [upon whom the influence is obvious].  A taste is in order:<br /><br /> &quot;As our life is very short, so it is very miserable; and therefore it is well that it is short.  God, in pity to mankind, lest his burden should be insupportable and his nature an intolerable load, hath reduced our state of misery to an  abbreviature; and the greater our misery is, the less while it is like to last; the sorrows of a man's spirit being like ponderous weights, which by the greatness of their burden make a swifter motion, and descend into the grave to rest and ease our wearied limbs; for then only we shall sleep quietly, when those fetters are knocked off, which not only bound our souls in prison, but also ate the flesh till the very bones opened the secret garments of their cartilages, discovering their nakedness and sorrow.&quot;<br /><br /> --- I envy his chops!  You can -hear- him preaching.  There are few finer masters of the music of English prose than Jeremy Taylor.nd sorrow.&quot;<BR><BR> --- I envy his chops!  You can -hear- him preaching.  There are few finer masters of the music of English prose than Jeremy Taylor.	2001-03-15
US	51823888	R3EX72COWQX6OZ	080612136X	164930677	The Latin Language	Books	4	40	41	N	N	A useful survey	The best part about this scholarly book is Palmer's development of the somewhat constricted literary language of Classical Latin out of the wider context of the dialects and varying usages of Latium and its environs.  Readers should be aware that this is a historical survey of Latin, not a reference grammar or a book to learn the language from.  Prior knowledge of the basics of Latin grammar is assumed.<br /><br /> In tracing the history of the language, the book necessarily gives a history of Roman literary styles, from the age of Cato and Ennius to the Christian period.  While this is not a comprehensive treatment of Latin literature, it is informative.<br /><br /> The extensive etymological and comparative information in this book, on the other hand, is somewhat dated, since it was written in a period before the laryngeal theory had thoroughly penetrated Indo-European studies.  Its treatment of Latin among the Italic dialects fares somewhat better.	2001-03-13
US	51823888	R1WNXDHH793P4H	0300061323	426661364	William Tyndale: A Biography	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Fascinating and learned	This excellent biography brings William Tyndale to life.<br /><br /> Tyndale was perhaps one of the most sympathetic characters to arise out of the religious controversies of the English Reformation.  This book paints him as a warm, sympathetic character, slow to react angrily in the face of gross provocation, and always replying with more genial wit than vehement heat.  A man of monumental learning for his day, he was also a prose stylist of the first water.<br /><br /> It truly is a shame that Thomas More, one of the least saintly saints ever to be named to that company, is well known from stage and screen productions, while Tyndale remains in the dark.  As this book reveals, Tyndale was the true hero of human freedom, and his behaviour in the midst of heated controversy sets a fine Christian example for us all.	2001-03-08
US	51823888	R39RL8E9G5AC7H	0226055450	210719289	Commentaries on the Laws of England (Vol. 4)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Necessary to grasp the Constitution	Every American lawyer ought to read Blackstone.<br /><br />Not that the law he contains is still reliable, although much of it is.  But for the big picture, the history of the development of the English common law, he remains an indispensible source.<br /><br />The American founding fathers grew up with this stuff, and these four volumes were indispensible for a Colonial gentleman's education.  In viewing them, you will gain a new understanding of the meaning of the Constitution of the United States.  As Blackstone develops the law, he sets it against the backdrop of the British struggle against arbitrary rule by the King, the seventeenth century wars of religious fanaticism, and England's long battle to win free from the power of the papacy.  To read Blackstone is to learn what the founding fathers thought and feared, and what they wrote the Constitution to guard against.	2001-02-15
US	51823888	R1WCZLWFMUMTFA	063121481X	658541137	The Blackwell Encyclopedia of Writing Systems	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	A fascinating vademecum	This is the only book that I have yet found that compares to David Diringer's -The Alphabet: A Key to the History of Mankind-.<br /><br /> It is not quite so complete in its coverage of obscure scripts as Diringer, and it makes far fewer attempts to analyse the history of the scripts.  On the other hand, because it covers less such territory, the exemplars of the scripts and the tables of the characters and their values in this book are far more legible.  The alphabetic arrangement of the material makes it easy to find which system you want.<br /><br />  Another of this book's strengths is that at least some attempt is made to explain how the phonemes of the many languages are expressed by the scripts in question; in many languages, from Tibetan to English, the relationship between alphabet and speech is subtle and complex.  Obviously, this information will be cursory and incomplete, but having some is better than having none, and it is at least handy to know whether you are dealing with phonemic or with etymological spellings.  This will help you not only to transliterate, but also to read, them.<br /><br /> If you are fascinated by the history of writing, and obscure scripts and arcane alphabets, you NEED this book, and will spend hours leafing through it.	2001-02-05
US	51823888	R2MQ4RJGUVYC57	9998786118	301068440	Elements of Abbreviation in Medieval Latin Paleography (English and Latin Edition)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Indispensible	If you do any work whatsoever with mediæval manuscripts, this tiny book ought never to be out of your grasp.<br /><br /> What you have here is a compendium of the many little abbreviations and curlicues that pepper late mediæval manuscripts.  It does not purport to be a comprehensive encyclopedia of every such abbreviation ever made; after all, each scribe had his own idiosyncrasies.  Instead, it gives examples of the most common ones, and illustrates the principles by which they are put together.	2001-02-02
US	51823888	R2WFYMBJ4Z31PW	0271017511	622880076	Forbidden Rites: A Necromancer’s Manual of the Fifteenth Century (Magic in History)	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Intriguing bit of Latin esoterica	People who are interested in works in the Latin language ought to take a special note of this book.  It is one of the more curious and obscure things in print, and we're thankful for it.<br /><br /> This reproduces in its entirely a fifteenth century manual containing someone's collection of magic spells. Unlike the fabled Necronomicon, this one's real.  The spells themselves, as Prof. Kieckhefer's commentary points out, fall into a number of predictable patterns.<br /><br />  Their basic premise seems to be that by using a mish-mash of sacred names in Hebrew and Greek, or invoking an even more unrecognisable congeries of infernal spirits, we can invoke the power of God to summon demons and make them do our bidding.  Putting this unlikely theology into practise, though, seems frequently to require the sacrifice of a hoopoe, making the spells  somewhat difficult to use for the North American reader.  Good luck.<br /><br /> What makes this book stand out is that, unlike similar collections of magical material, this one reproduces the entire original text in fairly easy mediæval Latin.  I would have some nits to pick with the editing (it seems unlikely the fellow really meant to write &quot;eciam&quot; so often), but having this fascinating and obscure material to peruse in the original more than compensates for any such minor flaws.  Original pages are often reproduced, showing the all-important sigils and arcane symbols.<br /><br /> Serious diabolists may find this a must-read.  Folks like myself, just interested in late Latin literature, will find it a hoot.  Hope you're not a lip-reader, though.	2001-01-29
US	51823888	RWZ7HARW8RH64	0962988804	941202727	The Geneva Bible: A Facsimile of the 1599 Edition with Undated Sternhold & Hopkins Psalms	Books	4	68	77	N	N	Great Bible; awful preface	This is a well made and readable reprint of the 1599 edition of the Geneva Bible.  Instead of the 1560 commentary on Revelation, it has the rather vehement and anti-Catholic, but historically interesting. commentary of Junius on that book.  The Apocrypha are listed on the table of contents, but were apparently not reproduced, either in the facsimile or in the edition this is copied from.<br /><br /> This Bible would be interesting and useful to people interested in the history of Protestant thought in England, and students of the literature of the period.<br /><br /> The edition is flawed, though, by the [...] prefaces added by the publisher.  They seem to have little to do with this edition of the Bible or its historical significance. Indeed, they seem to misconstrue the doctrine of Grace that is expounded in the pages of the Bible itself.  They are instead filled with amateur lawyering, bizarre political commentary, paranoid conspiracy theories, and attacks on the Authorized Version based on the character of King James [who, of course, didn't write it].  The prefaces are so disturbing that you may have qualms about supporting the operation responsible for this reprint.<br />Great Bible. Lousy introduction. -- &lt;I>This review refers to a previous edition.&lt;/I>	2001-01-21
US	51823888	R6Y92OJ0MX43T	0486213943	982943968	Egyptian Language: Easy Lessons in Egyptian Hieroglyphics	Books	2	26	31	N	N	Obsolete, incomplete, and wrong	This book may have some remaining marginal utility for people who just want to learn to write their name in hieroglyphics.<br /><br /> However, if your interest in the Egyptian language runs deeper than that, you will want to pass this one by.  Budge uses a system of transliteration that is no longer the standard, and now only found in reprints of books by Budge himself.  If you learn it, you will have to unlearn it later on.  His presentation of the grammar is also obsolete and incomplete.<br /><br /> More serious students would be better served by Gardiner's -Egyptian Grammar-, or Allen's -Introduction to Middle Egyptian-, or even Mercer's similarly priced paperbacks.	2001-01-17
US	51823888	R1DUG91QVD6F59	0192836544	469019091	Confessions of an English Opium-Eater: and Other Writings (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	This is the DeQuincey you want	If you are choosing between several editions of the -Opium Eater-, this one is the one you want.<br /><br /> True, it does not have Alethea Hayter's introduction, like the Penguin edition has; that being a point in that one's favour.  But here you -also- get the entire -Suspiria de Profundis-, which is in many ways more beautiful and interesting than the Opium Eater itself.  -Levana and Our Ladies of Sorrow- must surely be the single greatest prose poem ever written in English.<br /><br /> The -Suspiria- was intended as a sequel to the -Opium Eater-, and those who enjoy the one will want them both.	2001-01-10
US	51823888	R3053AE75QRXD8	0192125117	211546906	Romantic Agony (English and Italian Edition)	Books	4	26	29	N	N	A field guide to dying Romanticism	Mario Praz seems to disapprove of much of the late Romantic and Symbolist, mostly French, writing from the late nineteenth century.  It astounds me that Mario Praz would take the trouble to write an entire book about authors he doesn't seem to like very much.  But he was at least thorough about it, and we can share in the fruits of his labours even if we cannot share in his judgments.<br /><br /> In fact, as in all works of this sort, a commentary telling us how decadent, sadistic, and depraved all of the sorts of fantastic fiction he collects is just the thing to whet a reader's interest.  He condemns major authors like Flaubert, for his -Temptation of St. Anthony.-  But he also introduces us to relatively less well known writers like Jean Lorrain; and to minor poets like Maurice Rollinat, the Alice Cooper or Marilyn Manson of fin-de-siecle France.  Without Mr. Praz to tell me how eeeevil they are, I'd never have heard of 'em; and I'd be the poorer for it.<br /><br /> Works like this also serve the purpose of anthologising the more intriguing excerpts from these writers.  Mr. Praz's work is no exception.  Fortunately, entire poems are often quoted, and extensive passages from short stories, in both the original (usually French) and in English translation.<br /><br /> I can't entirely -endorse- this, but it is a fun and informative read, that you should have a look at if you have any interest at all in the period.	2001-01-04
US	51823888	R2AEPJJE6ACCWF	0195083458	119000809	New Comparative Grammar of Greek and Latin	Books	4	51	52	N	N	Strong on etymology and morphology.	This one will take you some time to chew through.  What you are getting here is an extensive treatment of the derivational processes that generate Greek and Latin words.  You will be wasting your time unless you bring some familiarity with current Indo-European comparative linguistics with you.<br /><br /> For those who have the needed background and interest, this will be a fascinating read.  Especially welcome is the extensive discussion of the various changes that went into the making of Latin, where seeing the Indo-European roots behind the several words is a much more complex process, usually, than with Greek.<br /><br /> But for a work of such monumental learning, a bibliography would have been helpful --- even if it would have doubled the book's size, as it probably would.  It would have also been nice to have at least some discussion of the comparative syntax of the two languages; while most Indo-European scholars have focused mostly on the origins of words, some of the more interesting recent work involves reconstructing the larger structures of the proto-language.	2001-01-03
US	51823888	RDYUZ2XVNJXU3	1873982208	519378007	MONSIEUR VENUS (Decadence from Dedalus)	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Trying too hard to be suggestive?	Perhaps the passage of time makes this book no longer as daring as it once tried to be.  On the other hand, it is now quaint, in a way it never was meant to be.<br /><br />Reading this novel gives you a definitely unique experience.  It is as if the schoolgirlish author --- with a decidedly schoolgirlish voice in prose --- wants very, very much to write a dirty book full of all sorts of fascinating sexual fantasies.  So she is all buildup and no climax: she does her best to set up a variety of situations, but her authorial lens always fogs up at the good parts.<br /><br /> Like most other books whose mainspring is sexual fantasy, the plot contains some non-sequiturs and unexpected developments.  These discontinuities lend an ultimately dreamlike quality to the narrative, that is not dispelled by the bizarre --- and truly artificial --- denouement.<br /><br /> Its tale of sexual role reversal was no doubt more interesting in 1884.  Those who would seek to read some kind of political statement into this fantasy are undercut by the noticeable naivete of the story itself.  I also understand that Rachilde re-worked the main themes of this tale in her several later works.  Still, it is definitely a unique experience.	2000-12-27
US	51823888	R1Y99EMNS0YRN7	1873982275	76394487	LES DIABOLIQUES D'AUREVILLY (Empire of the Senses)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Mænads of decadence	The most obvious feature of Jules Barbey d'Aurevilly's collection of novellas is his peculiar horror of female sexuality.  In each of these tales, women, by their erotic wiles and passionate natures, rule and brand the male narrators of the stories.  These women's sexual needs are in each case the mainspring that drives tales of death, murder, or violence.<br /><br /> Another intriguing thing about these stories is their Russian-doll structure.  Each of these stories begins in a setting removed from its chief events, and introduces the male narrator as a character in his own right, as he narrates the tale of his harrowing encounter with the she-devils who give the book its title.  Even as these stories are stories of crime or horror, they are also stories about story-telling.<br /><br /> The author's curious prejudices also are manifest through the tales: Barbey d'Aurevilly was a bigoted partisan of the Roman church, authoritarian and monarchist in politics, and filled with apparent nostalgia for the military life.  These opinions are constantly touched on by the stories.  While they may make his view that female sexuality is a ravenous force somewhat more comprehensible, they make his writing such a disturbingly sensual book somewhat ironic.  In fact, the French authorities sought to suppress -Les Diaboliques-, even as they did with -Madame Bovary- and -Les Fleurs de Mal-.<br /><br /> The bottom line is that each of these tales is a good read.  D'Aurevilly shows himself to be a master of narrative technique, in that the horrors he -suggests- are far more vivid than the horrors he -discloses-.  The stories, then, will make the reader his -accomplice- in visioning a world of sexual violence.  This is the most diabolical stroke of all.	2000-12-24
US	51823888	R1K9DL0HKXFX49	0941478939	105237322	Holy Living (Christian Classic)	Books	2	33	33	N	N	Not what Jeremy Taylor wrote	It would have been nice to have an inexpensive paperback edition of -Holy Living-, suitable for the uses of both those who read it as a devotional manual and as a masterpiece of English literature.<br /><br /> Unfortunately, this is not it.  The text has been &quot;modernised&quot; and &quot;updated&quot; so that large passages of it are no longer recognisable as being in Jeremy Taylor's inimitable literary style.  Devotional readers who cannot handle Taylor in the original may find it useful.  Admirers of Taylor's poetic diction would be better served by the selections in the -Classics of Western Spirituality- edition.  Still, I cannot help but imagine that even those who look at this book as nothing more than a tract would be more improved by it if they also took the time to learn to read it in complete sentences.  If you can read the Authorised Version of the Bible, you can read Jeremy Taylor straight.<br /><br />  Given the editing done here, it is perhaps fortunate that the companion volume (-Holy Dying-) is not also presented in this manner.	2000-12-18
US	51823888	RSBD85LZ5IPW4	1564590038	279279018	Anatomy of Melancholy (2 vols.)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Chock full of curious lore and strong prose	This purports to be a medical textbook, and many of the obviously learned author's quotations are from half-forgotten late mediæval medical writers.  A plausible translation of the title into modern terms would be &quot;A Study of Abnormal Psychology.&quot;  The application of Scholastic methods to this topic --- so similar, and yet so different, from contemporary academic discourse --- creates a curious impression.  He invokes astrology and theology in forming his psychology.<br /><br /> But in fact, Burton uses this arcane subject to go off on a profound and lengthy meditation on the melancholies and misfortunes of life itself.  The author, it seems, was easily distracted, and his distractions are our gain.  The passages on the Melancholy of Scholars, and the Melancholy of Lovers, are themselves worthy of the price of admission.<br /><br /> His prose is unlike anything before him or since him.  It has some kinship to the paradoxical and simile-laden style of the Euphuists, but his individual sentences are often pithy and brief.<br /><br /> This seventeenth-century classic ought to be read by anyone interested in the period, in early psychology, or in the history of English prose.	2000-12-15
US	51823888	R35H5QDB12TOYR	0826411843	813363981	The Sexual Politics of Meat: A Feminist-Vegetarian Critical Theory	Books	2	51	100	N	N	Unintentionally hilarious	This book is interesting chiefly as an extreme example of a rhetorical style that is altogether too much with us.  It will either annoy or amuse you, depending on your taste for irony.<br /><br /> There may in fact be some deep relationship between carnivory and maleness, or vegetarianism and femaleness.  Those who wonder why would probably find more pertinent data in the realm of evolutionary anthropology, rather than in stilted and implausible over-interpretations of advertising and other pop culture ephemera.<br /><br />  You will marvel at the author's faith in the magical power of words and pictures: by changing them, we can change the world.  Believe this, and all social and politcal action can be carried out safely from within the ivory tower.<br /><br /> Both rigorous and eccentric diets born of body-image problems, and a sort of maudlin sentimentality our great-grandmothers would have had no leisure for, are much too close to the stereotypical notions of conventional femininity.  In her zeal to denounce patriarchy and carnivory, this author seems to have embraced them.<br /><br /> Still, it's an interestingly over-the-top example of this type of rhetorical style, and as such has some entertainment value despite itself.	2000-12-15
US	51823888	R3R7XRX2FY7NLQ	0195056523	560641087	Idols of Perversity: Fantasies of Feminine Evil in Fin-de-Siècle Culture (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	21	27	N	N	A worthy heir to Max Nordau and Mario Praz	If you have read Nordau's -Degeneration-, you will find that the most appealing part of that tome to the present day reader will be the fact that it serves as admirable Baedeker to the highlights of late 19th century (mostly French) literature.  It does so in the form of a moralistic tract, founded in the public-healthism of Nordau's era, and specifically Cesare Lombroso's attempt to create a &quot;science&quot; of what might be best termed as forensic phrenology.  [Lombroso maintained that criminals displayed hereditary &quot;atavistic&quot; traits, and that therefore by looking for facial features he deemed &quot;atavistic,&quot; criminal tendencies could be weeded out of the population.  Nordau then applied Lombroso's criteria to identify many literary titans as atavistic moral degenerates.]<br /><br />More people may be familiar with Mario Praz's -The Romantic Agony-, again a tract tinged with moral hostility against the stasis and cruelty of &quot;decadence,&quot; that once again serves as a lovely field guide to Symbolist and late Romantic poetry.  Praz, perhaps fortunately for his present reputation, sticks with non-falsifiable and purely artistic criticisms.<br /><br />The point here is that Nordau's and Praz's books in fact add relish and anticipation to the literary works they describe despite their moralistic thunders against them.  It's applying reverse psychology to the Paglia/Spenser effect --- for Camille Paglia's -Sexual Personae-, whatever other merits or demerits it may have, has won more readers for Spenser's -Faerie Queene- these past several years than the poem probably had over the past century.<br /><br />-Idols of Perversity- purports to analyze images from late 19th century art in the light of feminist doctrine, with an eye to the (rather obvious) thesis that these figures represent male sexual fantasies, often misogynistic, and not flesh and blood women.  Unlike most other tracts of cultural criticism that start from the moral assumptions of identity politics, Dijkstra's at least has the merit of actually persuading its readers that the hypothesis it wishes to develop is true.<br /><br />On the other hand, the moralizing tone of the work gives it a place on the same shelf as Nordau and Praz; more so because the book is of necessity handsomely illustrated with dozens of interesting fantasy paintings, many by largely forgotten artists --- the fact, of course, that first attracted my attention to it in the first place.  If you have any interest in these pictures at all, -Idols- is a handy reference guide, and Dijkstra's text serves the ironic purpose of making the pictures seem that much more wickedly fun, just as his distinguished predecessors do.ions of identity politics, Dijkstra's at least has the merit of actually persuading its readers that the hypothesis it wishes to develop is true.<BR><BR><br />On the other hand, the moralizing tone of the work gives it a place on the same shelf as Nordau and Praz; more so because the book is of necessity handsomely illustrated with dozens of interesting fantasy paintings, many by largely forgotten artists --- the fact, of course, that first attracted my attention to it in the first place.  If you have any interest in these pictures at all, -Idols- is a handy reference guide, and Dijkstra's text serves the ironic purpose of making the pictures seem that much more wickedly fun, just as his distinguished predecessors do.	2000-12-15
US	51823888	R19RRDQQOYKO9T	8121507480	118446665	The Alphabet: A Key to the History of Mankind	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An indispensible guide	This book is one of the most fascinating vademecums ever written.  Just about every alphabet and most more complex scripts ever devised by human beings are given here, with complete tables of the characters and their values.  An attempt is made to trace the history of alphabetic writing back to its origin in the Middle East.  The text itself deserves a five star rating<br /><br /> The production of this edition deserves a one.... mine had apparently been treated rather shabbily in the passage from the Indian subcontinent (where a guide to alphabets must be quite handy) to the USA.<br /><br /> I've wanted one of these ever since reading it on the shelves of the public library....	2000-12-08
US	51823888	R1JYQ3SCHY2L4I	0897330447	688063300	Aesthetes and Decadents of the 1890s: An Anthology of British Poetry and Prose	Books	4	25	28	N	N	A handy but uneven collection of some pretty uneven writers	Almost all of the authors collected here drank deeply of French influence, and wrote under the colossal shadow of Baudelaire, Verlaine, and Mallarme.  Those expecting something equal to those masters will be disappointed.<br /><br /> Some of them came close.  E.g.  Theodore Wratislaw:<br /><br /> I love you for the grief that lurks within<br /> Your languid spirit, and because you wear<br /> Corruption with a vague and childish air<br /> And with your beauty know the depths of sin; . . .<br /><br /> not bad verse, until some spoilsport points out that all Wratislaw has done here is to make a sonnet out of Pater's observations on the Mona Lisa.  And then again, some of these authors fall flat on their face, like Richard LeGallienne, who makes 'Beauty Accurst' say:<br /><br /> The sleepy kine move round me in desire<br /> And press their oozy lips upon my hair,<br /> Toads kiss my feet and creatures of the mire,<br /> The snails will leave their shells to watch me there<br /><br /> lines that surely belong in the -Stuffed Owl Anthology-.<br /><br /> But of course, none of this is the fault of the learned editor who collected all of this neglected Yellow Book material, and who has expanded the helpful introduction and bibliography from the first edition.  There is much worth reading here: Aubrey Beardsley's hilarious dedication of his erotic novella -Under the Hill- to a fictitious cardinal of the Roman church; the poems of Ernest Dowson and Arthur Symons; and of course, the -Ballad of Reading Gaol- and -Salom&eacute;-.	2000-12-08
US	51823888	R3B75REL663WSD	0803283679	256385818	Degeneration	Books	3	28	41	N	Y	An amusing lesson in pseudoscience	This book is almost entirely bunk from its first page to the last.  This is what makes it worth reading.<br /><br /> Nordau was a nineteenth century believer in the supposed virtues of Clean Living.  He thought that the works of contemporary poets and artists were too deliquescent and depraved.  Looking for some grounds to condemn them while maintaining the facade of liberal objectivity, he turned to nineteenth century pseudoscience.<br /><br /> Cesare Lombroso, an Italian anthropologist, had invented a doctrine of what could only be called forensic phrenology.  He believed that criminals could be identified as &quot;atavistic&quot; by their physical features; in practise, just about any feature could be considered &quot;atavistic.&quot;<br /><br /> Nordau turns this starry wisdom against the poets and artists of whom he disapproves.  Not surprisingly, they all turn out to have &quot;atavistic&quot; features in their person, and display equally apish traits in their art.  Fortunately, in the process of condemning these writers, he must necessarily compile an anthology of some of the most interesting passages from the authors and intellectuals he condemns.  This alone may be worth the price of admission.<br /><br /> If you take this twaddle seriously, you will probably be infuriated by it.  But who says ya gotta? (Atavism's got me in its simian clutches!) If you enjoy unintentionally (?) funny rants like Bram Dijkstra's -Idols of Perversity-, you might get some kicks here too.	2000-12-08
US	51823888	R3C2OJ3HQJXATN	0809131757	115381428	Jeremy Taylor Selected Works (Classics of Western Spirituality)	Books	5	25	34	N	N	An astonishing prose stylist	Jeremy Taylor deserves a wider audience than those who are interested only in Christian classics.<br /><br />He is also a prose stylist of the first water.  Read him, and you will see where DeQuincey got his chops.  As he warms to the solemn themes about which he writes, his sentences are like great rivers of poetic and exalted language.  His experience as a preacher also makes him a great master of the -sound- of words.	2000-12-05
