US	51831325	RI80YGLBQ735R	0312307349	605969989	Somebody's Knocking at My Door: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Curves Along the Road of Life	Somebody's Knocking on My Door is the follow up novel to Francis Ray's first Mainstream fiction offering TURNING POINT.<br />Kristen Wakefield falls in love with the handsome but very troubled Rafe Crawford who happens to be related to her sister-in-law.  Rafe's past caused him to become an intravert.  He doesn't like crowds of people nor does he like getting close to others.  The only problem is Rafe is falling hard for Kristen.<br />He's come to her rescue on several occasions and each time he finds himself getting close, he tries to push her away.  Kristen won't allow it.  She knows what she wants and she decided to go after him.<br />Somebody's Knocking at My Door not only tells their story, but also the hot love affair between Kristen's neighbor Angelique and Damien, her bosses son.  Angelique was the beautiful, vivacious and smart who seemed to be angry with all the males of the world.  She and Damien start off on the best of terms, but fire quickly ignited between the two.<br /><br />It also tells the story of the prim and proper Claudette Thibodeaux Laurent.  An heir to an empire, Claudette was always taught how to be a lady and how to hold up the family honor.  These very practices could cost her happiness.<br />This was an excellent book.  It shows us how not to judge a book by it's cover, forgiveness, trust and that it's okay to be in love with someone who has faults, we all have them.<br />Sometimes Rafe made me angry the way he treated Kristen, but I had to remember why he acted the way he did.<br />Ms. Francis always does an excellent job whether she's writing romance of mainstream fiction.  I'm not actually sure why they called this a mainstream because it's definitely a romance.  If this is how she has to do things, fine with me.<br />Way to go Ms. Francis.	2003-04-21
US	51831325	R1FEN9WBB305R3	158314255X	288257101	A Change Is Gonna Come	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Compelling	A CHANGE IS GONNA COME is the story of four friends who all work together in the Family Services Department.  Each woman has to trust God in the midst of their struggles.<br />Cordelia who to me was the main character in the book was a bible carrying goody, goody who always wanted to judge people.  She was at the church each time the door was open.  A debilitating illness strikes and her and she begins to question God faithfulness toward her.  She goes through many emotions throughout her ordeal.<br />Tangie works with Cordelia and seems to be a desent person.  She hates her mother.  Tangie sees her mother as a loose woman and doesn't want to end up like her.  The problem with this is Tangie is just like her.  She has to trust God to deliver her from her lust demon.<br />Bonnie seems to be the person all the ladies go to when they have problems.  Bonnie is a sweet woman who lost her husband and now lives with her dog.  Bonnie loves the Lord and trusts him, but she has a self esteem problem.  She does trust herself to live again after the death of husband. She's very crafty, but doesn't think she's good at it.  She has to find that confidence within herself with God's help.<br />I saved Sabrina for last.  This woman got on my last nerve. LOL<br />She has so many issues, I just felt sorry for her.  First of all she only dated men that could give her things.  Her reward to them was to sleep with them.  She used so many men, I actually couldn't believe she had no remorse.  She lied to her mother all the time.  She told everyone's business she heard and to me was just a low down individual.  She was broken and needed to be strengthen.<br />A CHANGE IS GONNA COME touches a lot of issues people face today, be it illness, brokeness, abandonment, lust and no self worth.  It paints us a picture that only God can deliver you from these issues.<br />Great Job Ms. Jacquie.	2003-03-31
US	51831325	R387S469BNPLI	1583142932	776010600	Atlanta Live!	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Bravo Carmen!!	Evelyn, Jasmine and Malone have been together for sometime trying to make a name for themselves in Talk Radio.  Atlanta Live was the show born to them.  Each host has their own view of the issues discussed.  Things had been going very well for them until one fateful day when a caller tried to harm herself during a conversation with the trio.<br />Jasmine, Dr. Jasmine as she likes to be called is the sassy, arrogant and sometimes two faced individual that pushed the callers to the limit and on that day one too far.  Jasmine didn't look through life through rose colored glasses, but from a I take what I think is mine no matter what the consequences.<br />Evelyn on the other hand looked at life from a victims point of view.  She had made mistakes in the past, but never thought they would come back and her hurt as well as heal her.  Her preacher father and mother were self-rightous folks that in my eye sight let her down as parents.<br />Malone completed this trio.  Men loved to hear his take on subjects and the women liked him because his voice was sexy.  An ex-football player, the thorn in his side was the ex-wife from hell.  He wanted to be a good parent, but the ex always had a road block in his way when it came to his son.<br />The incident changed all their lives forever.<br />Carmen Green is known for her witty characters and her humor as a romance author.  She always makes you laugh and the next moment your heart bleeds for the character.  She did an excellent job writing Atlanta Live her mainstream offering.  A look in and behind the scenes of radio shows everywhere.  The only thing I wonder is what happened to Jasmine after she tried to redeem herself?<br />Great job Carmen.	2003-02-14
US	51831325	R99O3WJ4SWTZE	1583142762	812995873	Closer Than Close (Arabesque)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Totally Involved	Ivy Smith's class reunion is approaching.  After searching the class' website, she finds they have her listed as dead.  This incidents makes her want to go to the reunion even more.  She wants them to see that she is not only alive, but alive and doing very well for herself.<br />Ray Jones is a very responsible guy.  His wife died from a freak accident and he is left with two daughters to raise, one a teen and the other a small child.  With the help of his mom he does a wonderful job at caring for his children.  He meets Ivy at the post office where he works and is attracted to her.<br />Ivy asks Ray to accompany her to the reunion and she would pay for everything.  I believe at first Ivy didn't think Ray could afford it.<br /> At the reunion Ivy meets a classmates cousin and she thinks he's tha bomb!  She decides to go out with him and has a nice time, but when she meets his braty kids, she wants to strangle them.  They really got on her nerve and mine. LOL<br />I think Ivy went out with Mitch because she felt he was more her equal financially.  She couldn't help but think about Ray though.<br />Ray asked Ivy if she wouldn't mind helping his daughter with a school assignment and she agreed.  Ivy finds a kinship with Ray's daughters although his mother didn't necessarily like it.<br />I think money can be an issue in some relationships.  It's the way you handle them that determines if it will work.<br />I like books by Bettye Griffin that have children in them.  They seem to light up the pages which is the case in CLOSER THAN CLOSE.  Bettye's books aren't filled with alot of hot sizzling love scenes and that's just fine with me. I really enjoyed this particular story.  My favorite Bettye Griffin book is A LOVE OF HER OWN.	2003-01-27
US	51831325	RDS0MKZKE2WDI	1583142711	389876114	Homecoming (Arabesque)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	One of My Favorite Families	Tyler Simmons Cole decided not to go into the Family Business, but instead he wanted to go into Medicine.  OB/GYN was his field of choice.  He was involved in a program that targeted areas where infant low birth weight was increasing.  He wanted to give women who would not otherwise receive good pre-natal and post-natal care a chance to become mothers of healthy babies. This assignment took him to a small town called Hillsboro, Mississippi.<br />Tyler was not much on gossip, but the town's doctor killing his wife and then later himself.  The doctor's daughter was in the house when he killed his wife.  Tyler meets the infamous doctor's daughter as he rescues her from the town's known beggar.  Tyler is instantly attracted to Dana.<br />Dana Nichols is an investigative report who came back to Hillsboro to bury her dear grandmother.  She also wanted to put to rest the circumstances around her parents deaths.  Dana an exact replica of her beautiful mother shocked some of the who hadn't seen her since her since she was a child.<br />Dana is taken by Tyler but is hesitant because of her past relationship. She didn't want to get involved with anyone because she was only going to be in Hillboro four months.  Tyler had something else in mind for Dana.<br />I don't want to give everything away, but I do want to end my review with this:<br />I think Dana's fear of abandonment is evident in this story and Tyler was just the person to reassure her he wasn't going anywhere. He would protect her with his own life.<br />It is always good to reunite with family and friends.  I hate we didn't get to see Matthew and Eve Sterling.<br />Ms. Alers is one of my ultimate favorite authors.  I love the way she tells a story.  She always, always, always references a scripture in her stories as does my other favorite author Brenda Jackson.  They both are always on the mark with their scriptures and I love them for that.<br />The last installment for this family and friends saga is RENEGADE and from what I'm hearing this series will go out with a bang!and from what I'm hearing this series will go out with a bang!	2002-11-05
US	51831325	R1Q6GUGHIDPR7P	0060502290	4413918	A Chance at Love	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Chance At Love	Loreli Winters was part of the mail order brides, but she was far different from the other contigent brides.  See, Loreli was a self professed gambler.  Girlfriend had been taking care of herself since she was a teenager.  She had seen alot in her life and knew how to deal with people.<br />When the brides stopped in the small town of  Loreli found her self the target of twin girls BeBe and DeDe.  They were looking for a new mama.  The girls took an instant liking to Loreli and told her about their desires for her to become their new mama.  Loreli felt she wasn't mama material, but was honored by the twins wish.<br />Loreli escorts BeBe and DeDe home and they told their uncle who was their legal guardian now that they wanted Loreli to become their mama.  Of course Jake, the hog farmer didn't want any part of this brazen, independent female. Loreli definitely didn't want to become anyones wife much less stay on a hog farm.  Jake however,wanted the girls to be happy.<br />Jake proposed to Loreli that she be the twins mama for one year, and he would continue to look for a more suitable wife during that time and Loreli agreed.  From that point on noone's life would ever be the same.<br />I loved this book!  Beverly Jenkins is a wonderful writer who always gives you a history lesson.  She didn't short stop on this one.  Loreli was funny and I found myself laughing out loud at some of the happenings in this book.  The characters were vivid and I could visualize every scene.<br />If you've never read a Beverly Jenkins book now is a good time.  I would recommend any of her books.  I would have to say that my FAVO-RITE to date is TOPAZ. (Count for me Chica!) LOL	2002-09-14
US	51831325	R1PWO2459DUCOA	0312300506	197096249	I Know Who Holds Tomorrow: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent Read	I Know Who Holds Tomorrow is a heart wrenching story of a woman who played the hand she was dealt.<br />It wasn't easy for Madison Reed a famous Oprah Winfrey type talk show host to move on with her life after her even more famous husband Wes Reed is killed.<br />As she tries to put her life back together, she uncovers lies, betrayal, mistrust and infidelity.<br />She has to come full circle in order to take care the little girl left behind after the accident even if she is reluctant to do it.  Then there's Wes good friend Zachary Holman.<br />She finds he knows more than he's telling, but can she really trust him.<br />Francis Ray has always been one of my favorite writers.  She is just a skillful writer.  When I heard about this story I was set to dislike the hero, but in a style in which only Francis can do, she changed my mind about Zachary Holman.  I really liked him.  He was definitely someone I know.  The story was vivid and the characters were memorable.  I also liked her secondary characters.  I think I'm still a big Francis Ray Romance Fan.	2002-09-04
US	51831325	R1622CCBQCRK3A	1575669218	509017029	Perfect Timing (Dafina)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Timing is Everything	Perfect Timing was an excellent novel written by one of my favorite writers.  Ms. Jackson always has a way of making the reader feel their right in the midst of the action.<br />In Perfect Timing she helps us to see two old friends heal old wounds, forgive others, clear up misunderstandings and shed some light on situations from their past.<br />I couldn't put the book down.  From my understanding this is supposed to be a Women's Fiction or Mainstream.  Ms. Jackson has said herself that she is a romantic at heart and I believe it.  In Perfect Timing you would think you were reading one of her romance novels.<br />If you have never read a Brenda Jackson book, please try her Madaris family and friends series.  My favorites:  WHISPERED PROMISES, ONE SPECIAL MOMENT, ETERNALLY YOURS.<br />Brenda Jackson has a talent that is only God given.  I pray she continues to tell stories that heal and uplift her audience.	2002-05-21
US	51831325	R3NSIZ926FAIJD	1583143270	933762180	Doctor, Doctor (Arabesque)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I loved it!	Shayla Michaels Crawford is now in her twenties.  She has lead a life of what some would say of a spoiled brat.  Her father Doctor Eric Crawford feels he gave her too much.  After a irresponsible incident on Shayla's part he sends her to work in a clinic in the boondocks.  Shayla is resentful at first, but finds the small town of Alberta Mississippi and its people a wonderful place to be.<br />Shayla meets the handsome doctor that runs the run down clinic Jake Parker attractive.  He thinks she's gorgeous, but they couldn't work because he was poor.  The attraction remained and finally neither could over look it.<br />The Crawford family has been one I've followed over the years.  Shayla is introduced in Silken Love the story of her biological father Eric Crawford and her adoptive mother Lauren Michaels. I was interested to see what Shayla would be like as an adult.<br />She was spoiled as a kid and I suspected she would be spoiled even worse as an adult.  Carmen did a good job at rounded Shayla into a respectable, reliable doctor.  She was still spoiled but learned some important lessons about life, responsibility and love.<br />Carmen Green is definitely one of my favorite writers.  She can tell a great story,make you laugh and cry.  My favorite Carmen novels are:  NOW OR NEVER, COMMITMENTS, SILKEN LOVE.<br />If you have not read Silken Love, please read it before you read Doctor, Doctor.  It will give you insight on Shayla's character.	2002-05-03
US	51831325	R3R15M8DMT1AHZ	1583142738	83827174	When I Fall In Love (Arabesque)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good story	Sean and Logan were neighbors.  Logan was a cop and Sean was an FBI agent.  Logan never looked at Sean as a beautiful woman because she was so tomboyish.  She had a punching bag in the middle of her living room.  Logan felt like she was one of the boys.  He would always want to drink beer and eat pizza.<br />Sean asks Logan to go with her to her step-sister's wedding.  He agrees because he needs a vacation.  Sean had some insecurities when it came to her stepmother and stepsisters.  Logan's sister inlaw took Sean for a makeover and she knocked his socks off.  He couldn't help but look at her differently.<br />There was mystery and lots of sexual tension.  Although this book started out kind of slow, I think Ms. Sneed did a wonderful job mixing the ugly duckling and cinderella type themes in this story.<br />This is Ms. Sneed's third book.  I liked her Love Undercover which Logan was part of and A Royal Vow.  Ms. Sneed has a great sense of humor and is emerging as an author to expect greater things from.	2002-04-25
US	51831325	R3O04878XIP8G3	1583142541	811118172	The Prodigal Husband (New Spirit)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent!	Jacquelin Thomas returns to the Christian Fiction arena with her sophomore release of The Prodigal Husband.  It's is a touching story of a couple whose life is in turmoil, but they find forgiveness, love, and the power of trusting God in any situation.<br />Jake and Tori's story is real and you could feel their suffering and their pain.  I was so happy that Jake realized that God will never leave us or forsake us. Forgiveness is a big issue for a lot of people and I applauded Tori's effort.  Her journey toward forgiving her husband was tough, but she depended on the Lord to help her get to that place in her spiritual journey.<br />The secondary characters were great.  I think Shepard and Charlene have a story to tell themselves.  I loved Aunt Kate, she cracked me up. Then there is Ms. Sheila,(the devil) to stir up the pot.  She has some issues I think she could probably resolve in her own book.<br />Jacquelin Thomas is an excellent writer.  All of her Romantic Fiction works have been great.  She creates believable characters and stories.  She is also emerging as a front runner of the Inspirational or Christian Fiction markets.  I'm sure we'll see more extraordinary works from this writer.<br />Great Story Ms. Jacquie!	2002-04-03
US	51831325	R3AJ5V4BEV3P14	1583142703	54543069	No Compromise (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent!	Rochelle Alers is definitely a master storyteller.  The first book that I purchased written by her was Heaven Sent.  I found that this book was book four in a series called Hideaway.  I went out and purchased all the previous Hideaway Series books.  I found her to be a wonderful, humorous and vivid writer. I've even read some of her story that aren't in the Hideaway Series.  They all can definitely stand on their own.  When her fans asked her to continue the Hideaway Series with the Daughters and Sisters Trilogy, she graciously complied.  We weren't disappointed either.<br />NO COMPROMISE is the first installment in the Sons and Brothers Trilogy.<br />Michael Kirkland the military guru decided to take a long need break from the career.  He was an expert in so many areas.  I found him to be THA BOMB!  He meets Jolene Walker, who is a tall and regal young woman.  Michael is instantly attracted to Ms. Walker. He finds that she is not only beautiful, but smart.<br />Jolene is also attracted to Michael, but isn't trying to get involved with anyone at this point in her life.  Besides, she is married to her job and hadn't had a real relationship in a while.<br />Jolene is the Executive Directory of a place called Sanctuary.  Sanctuary is an excellent place for abused women to come for help and refuge.  Jolene had to admit to herself and to Michael that she was really interested in him.  She started feeling different about herself after she started seeing him.  But she still didn't want to take things too far too quickly.<br />Michael and Jolene embarks upon an adventure full of love and intrigue.<br />It was so good visiting the other family members.  I know Ms. Alers has two more installments in this series.  I guess the question would be will she continue this series with the next Generation of Cole, Kirkland, Delgado.  I guess only time will tell.  I will say if she does decide to continue, I know we won't be disappointed.	2002-01-31
US	51831325	R389ESIEFK071R	0373650736	679637007	A Dad at Last (Maitland Maternity, Book 12)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Finally!	We finally find get the story of the real Conner O'Hara.  Conner was the first born son of the Maitland Matriah Megan.  He is not use to having a family or people to be so concerned about him.<br />When this book opens, Conner finds out that the little baby found on the Maitland Maternity Clinic steps is actually his baby boy.  Born to him and Lacy Clark.  Lacy used to work for Conner's adoptive parents.  When Conner's mother (or the woman he thought was his mother) died, Lacy tried to console him and that is when the baby was conceived.  Conner didn't want to be interested in Lacy and didn't want her to be interested in him.  Conner was so much older than her, he felt she should have someone her own age.  Lacy wasn't trying to hear it.  She wanted Conner.<br />I think this is a good installment to the series.  It was very emotional though.  Megan trying to communicate with her son and vice versa.<br />Be sure to read the book before this one. Toddler's Tale another great one.	2002-01-28
US	51831325	RBUDJZFGEJSPA	0373650655	85668802	Just for Christmas (Maitland Maternity, Book 4)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Good story	Drake Logan and his wife Hope are separated and it looks like they may not be getting back together.  Hope has asked Drake to move back into the house, because his sister has asked if they will keep her son for her until after the Christmas Holiday.  She and her husband want to take a vacation.  Drake agrees to move back in, but only until Christmas.<br />Hope desperately wants a child of her own.  The last time she got pregnant, she lost the baby and almost her lost her own life.  She still wants to try to have a child that belongs to she and Drake.  Drake doesn't want a child, because he feels he won't be a good father.  But he does move back in the house and try to make his house a home to his nephew.<br />This was a really good book. I think Ms. Bagwell did a good job with both the Drake and Hope.  They had emotion that seem to come alive when read.	2002-01-09
US	51831325	R31TW4WI9N1BAV	0515131733	800958503	The Winston Brothers	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Excellent	This book is made up of three novellas first printed in the novellas CHARMED, SINFUL AND HOT CHOCOLATE.  I was so happy to hear that the brothers novellas would be in one book.  The other Winston Brother Zane has his own book called Wild.<br />Cole Winston is the oldest brother of this clan.  He has helped rear his other brothers since their parents death.  Cole is also the owner of Wisnton tavern.  He is quite sexy and kind of quiet, I think.  Sophie owns a lingerie shop down the street from the tavern and she is always in the tavern asking for Hot Chocolate.  Sophie really likes Cole, but doesn't think she will like him, because she is what some might call a PLAIN JANE.  She decides to get his attention and the sparks fly.<br />Chase Winston has a problem, He can hear the erotic thoughts of Allison.  Allison works with Sophie in the Lingerie shop down the street.  Chase works as the bartender at Winston's Tavern.  One day he begins to hear all of Allison's thoughts about wanting him.  Chase decides that he is interested and tries to pursue Allison.  What he finds is Allison in an old Farm House that is haunted.  This story makes for wonderful reading.<br />Mack Winston has almost met his goal.  He wanted to become a school teacher.  He is now waiting on the School Board to get him a permanent assignment.  Mack is asked to model for a Lingerie Catalog for Sophie.  He wants so badly to say no, but she did help him study for some of his classes in college.  He agrees to do the shoot, but can't believe who the photographer is.  A woman he was really attracted to in college comes face to face with him.  He is too irresistable to turn down.<br />This book was really good.  I laughed alot!  I really like that.  I think Ms. Foster is an excellent author.  She has just the right mix to make a story great!	2002-01-09
US	51831325	R3PE2YONIQ5NGO	0373650647	448682985	Married To The Boss (Maitland Maternity, Book 3)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Steamy	Dana has been R.J. Maitland's right hand for years now.  He depends on her, just like he depends on the Sun to rise the next morning.  R. J. is trying to keep his reputation in tack.  Because of this mysterious baby that showed up on the doorstep at Maitland Maternity.  There are rumors now that the baby might just be his.  He wants to try to squash the bad press and he thinks the best way to do that is by getting married.  He can't get married to just any old body, it has to be someone that will go along with the marriage with no strings.  He decided to ask Dana, his secretary.  To his surprise, she agrees, but only on one condition, she wants to share his bed!<br />Hey, you have got to trust me on this one, get the book.  It was really a steamy one.  This book is the best in the Maitland Series so far.	2002-01-09
US	51831325	R2EZ4H2RMRM5KX	1583141324	707061679	With A Song In My Heart (Arabesque)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	What a Wonderful Story	I have been following the Ransom family for a couple of years now.  I was excited to hear that Elle, the youngest Ransom was getting her own story.  Elle makes the announcement in the book UNDENIABLY YOURS that she is pregnant.  WITH A SONG IN MY HEART is her story.<br />Elle Ransom had been in love with Brennan Cunningham III for a while.  She even dreamed about marrying him.  When Brennan started to show interest in Elle and they got involved, he left  Europe and didn't tell her.  He left her hi and dry.<br />At Elle's twin brother Nyle's wedding Brennan shows up.  He is friends with the bride.  Elle couldn't believe it when he approached her to say hello.  He acted as nothing happened.  He even wanted to pursue her again.<br />When Brennan found out that Elle was pregnant he knew it was his child.  He confronted her and then asked to marry her.  Elle knew Brennan really didn't love her, but she agreed to the marriage.<br />Brennan decides to tell his family that they were going to get married.  His father says that he really didn't have to marry the girl, because she was pregnant.  His mother was dead set against it!  She thought Elle was just after his money.  She didn't think Elle was good enough for her son.  Brennan didn't care what his parents thought. His aunt Pookie was happy for him.  His mother relents and says that she wants to give them an engagement party.<br />When they arrive Elle has a funny feeling that all wasn't right!  She was definitely on the money!  Brennan's old girlfriend Charis shows up and announces that she and Brennan had a baby together.  This is the first Brennan heard of a baby.  It was surprising that his mother wasn't as shocked as everyone else.<br />It is so hard to do this review without giving anything away.  After this most surprising announcement by Charis the ex, there is so much other stuff happening that I don't want to give it away.  I will say that it is a page turner.<br />In order to get a vivid picture of the characters in this book, especially the Ransom family, you need to read the following books HIDDEN BLESSINGS, FOREVER ALWAYS, FAMILY TIES, LOVE'S MIRACLE, UNDENIABLY YOURS then read WITH A SONG IN MY HEART.<br />Jacqui Thomas is an excellent writer and a pleasant person.  I think she likes to show the bond of family.  She also addresses real life issues from a family perspective.  I have read all her books and have loved them all. Outside of the Ransom family Saga, she has SOMEONE LIKE YOU, A RESOLUTION OF LOVE that I liked alot.  Pick up any of these books and you will definitely be pleased.haracters in this book, especially the Ransom family, you need to read the following books HIDDEN BLESSINGS, FOREVER ALWAYS, FAMILY TIES, LOVE'S MIRACLE, UNDENIABLY YOURS then read WITH A SONG IN MY HEART.<br />Jacqui Thomas is an excellent writer and a pleasant person.  I think she likes to show the bond of family.  She also addresses real life issues from a family perspective.  I have read all her books and have loved them all. Outside of the Ransom family Saga, she has SOMEONE LIKE YOU, A RESOLUTION OF LOVE that I liked alot.  Pick up any of these books and you will definitely be pleased.	2001-12-05
US	51831325	R311B6SHRCPRLL	0380776839	687083377	It Had to Be You (Chicago Stars)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Funny, Romantic and Enjoyable	Phoebe Sommerville's father has died and she has to come back to Chicago for his funeral and the reading of his will.  Phoebe knows that her father probably left her younger sister Molly a trust fund that will take care of her needs.  He probably also left his precious Chicago Stars football team to her cousin Reed Chandler, who Phoebe hates with a passion.<br />Phoebe gets the shock of her life, when she finds out that her father left the Stars to her temporarily.  She has to get the Stars to win a Championship title in order to keep it.  If they don't win she will get one hundred thousand dollars and the team goes to her cousin Reed.  Phoebe knew her father could be a trip and even in death he gets her goat.  But, she figures she can make the best of it.  Then she meets the Stars coach Dan Calebow.<br />Dan doesn't think Phoebe is up to the job, in fact she is just a beautiful woman who knows nothing about football.  How in the world will she be able to handle a team. Phoebe had a reputation as a vixen.  As Dan gets to know Phoebe better, he finds her be a very lovely, sometimes frightened young woman.  He finds himself attracted to her, not wanting to be.  He eventually faces the facts that she is in his blood and their is no denying the attraction between them.<br />Phoebe decides to keep her sister with her in order for them to get to know each other.  Her sister Molly was always away at school.  Molly didn't like Phoebe.  She felt that Phoebe was the reason she felt her father didn't love her.  Phoebe was determine to develop a relationship with her.<br />This book has alot of relationship mending going on.  Some secrets are revealed.  I didn't care for the cousin Reed!  This is an excellent story done by Ms. Phillips.  I love her work.  This book is book one in the Chicago Stars football series then theres HEAVEN TEXAS, NOBODY'S BABY BUT MINE, DREAM A LITTLE DREAM &amp; THIS HEART OF MINE!  Make sure you pick up these books, you won't miss!	2001-11-06
US	51831325	RH06TESE3XDD2	0380776847	400994620	Heaven, Texas (Chicago Stars)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Good	Bobby Tom Denton the famous jock with the Chicago Stars has been injured.  This injury ended his football career.  He signs a contract to star in a motion picture in his hometownof Heaven, Texas.  Bobby Tom has second thoughts about this movie deal and decides to go to Heaven, Texas when he is good and ready.<br />Gracie Snow was hired by the production company of the movie to escort Bobby Tom back to Heaven, Texas.  They don't care how she does it, they want him there.  Gracie meets Bobby Tom and think he is stuck on himself.  Gracie puts her foot down and tells him he is going to show up to do this movie.<br />Bobby Tom gives in and they go to Heaven, Texas together.  He decides to get this bright idea to tell everyone there that Gracie is his fiance.  There is always somebody there that wants Bobby to meet a relative of theirs, this way Gracie will be his shield.  Some of the towns people think that something is strange about this because Gracie is just a small petite plan Jane, not someone Bobby would go with much less marry.  Once they agree to this plan sparks fly.<br />I really liked this book.  This is the second book in the Chicago Stars football team series.  Ms. Phillips always writes an excellent story.  I really enjoyed it!	2001-11-06
US	51831325	R1P8H8MMMDA0ZB	1583140123	224741395	Summer Magic (Arabesque)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	I love this story!	Caryn Edwards came to Marble Island to get some peace and quiet.  She has been through quite an ordeal with her failed marrige.  She was also looking forward to a break from school.  She taught Home Ec.  She decided to take her friends up on the offer to rent their summer home while they were away.  What she didn't count on is having a housemate.<br />Logan Prescott was getting away for some peace from a shock that changed his life.  He was renting his friends summer home on Marble Island, but was surpised to find a beautiful woman would be sharing the home with him.<br />Summer Magic is actually one of my favorite stories by Ms. Alers.  This is a true romance.  You actually watch the characters fall in love right before your eyes.  Yes, they both have issues, but they find solace in each other.  They then realize they can work through things together.<br />Ms. Alers stories are always wonderful.  No matter what the topic is, she does a marvelous job.  Even her novellas are wonderful.  I have all Ms. Alers published works.  She is very well known for her Hideaway Legacy Series.  Summer Magic, Home Sweet Home are two of my favorite stories outside the Hideaway Legacy Series.  Get them !!	2001-10-22
US	51831325	R1737WQ4IPQ9E6	0380782340	229000740	Nobody's Baby But Mine	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Excellent	Jane Darlington is a 34 year old genius.  She really isn't a very sociable person.  She is a very nice person, but always believed that people thought she was weird because she was so smart.  Her next door neighbors daughter Jodie comes over to borrow some coffee.  She realizes that Jane has been crying and starts trying to find out what is wrong with her besides being a weirdo.  Jane confides in the young girl.  The young woman for her own selfish reasons tells Jane that she can help her with her problem.  Jane's problem was she wanted a child of her own, but didn't want the child's father to have any intelligence whatsoever.  She felt is the father was stupid, her child wouldn't be talked about and critized the way she was.  Jane sees Cal Bonner and football player and she thought he was stupid because of the way he talked to the interviewer.  She said he would be perfect aloud and the young woman said she could set it up.  Jane was going to be Cal Bonner's birthday present.  They even tied a pink bow around her neck.  Jane couldn't believe what she had to do, but I don't think she counted on Cal finding out her little secret.<br />Cal Bonner was nobody's dummy.  Yes, he was a football player, but he happened to be one with a degree in Biology.  Cal came from a family where the men seemed to get caught up with having to marry a woman because she was pregnant.  When he first met Jane, he knew she was no ordinary hooker.  He didn't believe she was a hooker at all.  He overheard Jodie talking about how she set up his birthday gift.  Cal made Jodie tell him who Jane was and everything.  He was so mad he could have hurt Jane.  He confronted her and made her marry him and that's when the fun starts.<br />I don't want to go on because I know I will give it all away.  You will love this book.  The characters were good and you could actually visiualize alot of the scenes in the book.  This is my second book by Ms. Phillips, the first one was First Lady.  I am now trying to find all of her books.  She is a good writer and I enjoy her stories.  They aren't as heavy with issues as some others I've read recently.  I'm glad my friends told me about her.find all of her books.  She is a good writer and I enjoy her stories.  They aren't as heavy with issues as some others I've read recently.  I'm glad my friends told me about her.	2001-10-22
US	51831325	R2VU8OYNNUP44K	1583142444	335269241	Midnight Magic (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Well done Dee	Deidre Savoy did a wonderful job with this story Midnight Magic. The characters weren't new to us, we met them in two of her previous novels ALWAYS and ONCE and AGAIN.  In those stories the couple had been married for several years.  Midnight Magic is their story.<br />Elise and Garrett Taylor met when they were in college.  You would have never thought Elise the prim and proper interior design major would have never captured the heart of Garrett &quot;number 43&quot; Taylor.  But she did and he captured hers.  Garrett and Elise had been through some hard times.<br />Elise didn't seem like herself.  They now had two children and it seems with her interior design career and him being a peditrician that didn't have time for each other.  They decide to take a trip to the Caribbean, maybe this will help.<br />Midnight Magic revisited how the couple got together the triumphs and tragedy they faced together.  It was good to visit with Elise's sister Daphne and brother Michael.  This book also explained why Michael Thorne acted the way he did.  I love books with family themes.<br />I would have to say my favorite book by Ms. Savoy is SPELLBOUND.  To get to know Elise's brother and sister read ALWAYS and ONCE AND AGAIN.	2001-10-18
US	51831325	R1L6JQ6LG1ZUX2	1583142428	298924285	This Time Forever (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Back together again	This Time Forever is the sequel to the refreshing Anthology &quot;Keys to My Heart&quot; in the Mother's Day Anthology of 2000.<br />When we first meet Kerry Everett in KEYS TO MY HEART, we find a career woman.  She stood for what she believed in and didn't let anything or anyone deter her from that.  She and Maceo could  have been together years ago, but her drive to be what she wanted to be and both their pride kept that from happening.  I was happy to see them get back together.<br />I like the way Ms. Sims describes Maceo.  He looks like Damon from Soul Food the Series.  We all love Damon with his fine self.<br />Maceo was headstrong just like Kerry.  I thought it was really sweet how he confessed that he followed her career after their split and that he never loved another woman they way he loved her.  Also like the way he went after her when they met up again.<br />The murder of the towns bad boy was very intriguing.  Kerry was on every lead and let her intuition lead her.  I think that is what made her an excellent sheriff for her small town.<br />It was so wonderful visiting with Kerry's family.  The fact that Kiana and Gabriel were going to have a baby of their own was wonderful also.  I also loved the way they remembered their sister Dionne.  You may loose loved ones, but your memory of them will never fade.<br />I have read all of Ms. Sims work. Ms. Janice Sims a very accomplished writer shows us the closeness of family and the power of forgiveness.  I think she is a very thorough writer that likes to please her readers.  My favorites are AFFAIR OF THE HEART, ALL THE RIGHT REASONS AND FOR KEEPS.	2001-10-18
US	51831325	R1LOP5KDC2VQ56	0380808072	230937958	First Lady (Wynette, Texas)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great Read	First Lady is my first experience with Susan Elizabeth Phillips.  A couple of friends of mine introduced me to her.  They love her books and told me to try one.  I chose First Lady.  This was a book that made you smile in every chapter.  The characters Nealy and Mat were both well rounded.<br />Nealy was the wife of the President of the United States.  He dies and she wants to move on with her life, but her father and the Vice President who is now President have other plans for her.  They ask her to stay on as the First Lady of the United States.  Nealy thinks their crazy and creates a plan to get out of the White House.  She just wants to live a regular life or at  the very least see what a normal life is like.  She dresses up as an old woman and mixes in with the crowd who is on a tour of the White House.  Later she buys a car for a couple thousand dollars and dresses as a pregnant woman down on her luck.  When she stops for gas, she leaves the keys in the car by mistake.  She comes out the car is gone.  She decides she would buy another car, but the problem was her money was in the trunk.<br />Mat Jorik is a journalist that isn't having any luck lately.  He gets a call from his ex-wife's attorney stating she had died and that he was named the father to her two young daughters.  Mat isn't trying to hear it.  He grew up in a house full of women and he had enough of it.  He would try to find the children's grandmother and give them to her.  The attorney warned him that blood tests had to be done to see if he really was the father or not.  Mat decided to take the girls in their old Winneabago and go to their grandmother's house in Iowa.  When they stopped for gas this is where he mets Nealy, but she was going by the name of Nell.  Mat makes a deal with Nealy, she would take care of Button the infant and he would give her a free ride.  They are then off on their adventure.<br />If I keep going I'm going to give away all the good stuff.  Just know that this is a delightful read and SEP is a wonderful author.  This book had me laughing in almost every chapter.  I'm going to pickup another book by her to read next.<br />Excellent.lightful read and SEP is a wonderful author.  This book had me laughing in almost every chapter.  I'm going to pickup another book by her to read next.<BR>Excellent.	2001-10-08
US	51831325	R13RNE6LWCAKDA	0842319409	56075741	Abiding Hope (Genesis House)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Abiding Hope - Faith working with Hope	Angela Benson is a very well known and talented romance writer. She creates wonderful characters and vivid story lines that are not easily forgotten.<br />Abiding Hope is her second installment in the Genesis House Series. Shay and Marvin are both praying people, the only thing about this husband and wife team is that they are both praying different prayers.<br />Shay wants to have another child. Marvin does not. Their son Marvin Jr. was killed in a car accident. Shay wants to have a child that she can love and that will have the characteristics of her and her husband. When their son died, Marvin walked out on her. Since that time, they reconciled and she wants to get their life back. The missing ingredient is a child. Not any child, but theirs. So she prays to God to bless her with another child. They tried for 4 years after their son was killed and nothing happened. She didn't want to give up Hope.<br />Marvin was not encouraging Shay's desire to have another child. He wanted to try to move on with their lives the way it was. It didn't want to feel the pain that comes with loosing a child. His prayer was &quot;well nothing has happened all this time&quot; so evidentally Shay can't get pregnant anymore.<br />When Shay tells Marvin that she is indeed with child, he can't believe that she is. He didn't want to tell their friends until she was past her first trimester. That did not set well with Shay. She couldn't believe that Marvin was acting that way. The Lord had blessed them with this child.<br />Marvin and Shay struggle with their feelings and the new life they are starting in Odessa, Mississippi. They use their prayer life to keep the understanding of how the other feels.<br />This story was a really wonderful story. To keep the faith in a situation that seems impossible. May that is why they say that faith is the substance of things hope for and the evidence of things not seen. Shay believed that the Lord was going to bless her with a child. Marvin finally realized that the Lord was giving them another chance to love a child. It also brought them back together as strong as ever. We must never give up hope. No matter the situation, hope is something we must grab hold to.<br />My favorite Angela Benson novel are Bands of Gold, Family Wedding, A Second Chance Dad and The Way Home.alized that the Lord was giving them another chance to love a child. It also brought them back together as strong as ever. We must never give up hope. No matter the situation, hope is something we must grab hold to. <br />My favorite Angela Benson novel are Bands of Gold, Family Wedding, A Second Chance Dad and The Way Home.	2001-09-25
US	51831325	R2OQJZ4S3DMZ3S	0312978839	908403901	A Family Reunion	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent! Excellent! Excellent!	Brenda Streater Jackson is famous for the sizzling tales of a well known family and the friends that surround them. She seemed to pour love, adoration, and respect into this family. Now here she comes with her debut Mainstream book A FAMILY REUNION. They call the book mainstream, but I really didn't seem to see a big difference except this book was longer. Ms. Jackson just continues to prove to the world that she is a wonderful writer. She tells a story so true to life that we can't help but relate with her characters and put actual faces to them. This book drew me in and I didn't want to put the book down until I was done.  I started reading this book with the expectation that it was going to be a good book. Why? Because it is written by Brenda Jackson of course.<br />A FAMILY REUNION is a not a tale, but reality. It speaks on families and how the people in them relate to each other. While reading, I couldn't help but reflect on situations within my own family. The way the grandfather knew the children so well. The four cousins who are the focus of this story remind me so much of myself and several of my own cousins. Rae'jean, Taye, Alexia and Michael were all wonderful characters. Grandpa Ethan was the bomb! He reminded me of my own grandfather. I loved the way Alexia gave her grandparents the praise they deserved when she won her award. They were the driving force for her to keep singing. I no longer have any grandparents, I lost my last grandmother in March of this year.  I will never forget all those lessons taught to me by her and my other grandparents.  I also believe that scripture that states &quot;Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart from it.<br />If you have not purchased this book, please do so, you will not be disappointed. I am not sure what my favorite Brenda Jackson book is because I love them all. I will say: Eternally Yours, Cupids Bow (A Valentine Kiss Anthology) are right at the top.<br />Great Job Ms. Brenda!!!!!!	2001-09-10
US	51831325	R2KWVCLFCJYS09	1583141561	911971082	Too Hot Too Handle (Arabesque)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	SCORNED	Monica Jackson introduced the Eastman family in the book Heart's Desire.  This book featured a young woman whose mother dies, but tells her daughter that the illustrious Senator Sidney Eastman is really her father.  Senator Eastman turns out to be a low-down person and destroys his own family.  His daughter Jenny is in love with his right hand man.  When he Brent breaks off the relationship, she drowns her sorrows in Southern Comfort.  Jenny's drinking gets out of hand and she is even driving while under the influence.  She has a terrible car accident in which she kills a man and his infant child and almost loses her own life.  Jenny has always been daddy's little girl and really resents Kara Kincaid, when she finds out that Eastman is her daddy too.  Jenny finally tries to get her act together after spending time in jail.<br />Jenny meets her new stepfather's son Dr. Jared Cates.  Jared is a known playboy, but Jenny can't help but be attracted to him.  Jenny also becomes friends with one of Jared's ex-lovers.  Stacie was dumped by Jared and when she finds out that Jenny is involved with him, she warns her of his track record with women.  Well after an encounter with Jared, Jenny doesn't hear from him for days and goes to cry on Stacie's shoulder.  Stacie convinces Jenny to join a club she belongs to called S.C.O.R.N.E.D. (Sisters Committed to Overcoming Rejecting Narcissistic Egomaniacal Dogs)  When Jenny goes to this meeting she finds out that there are alot of women in the group that have dated Jared and he dumped them too.  Well the ladies decide that Jenny can help them get even with him.  They devise a plan to make Jared fall hard for Jenny and then Jenny would dump him.<br />The relationship would be over before he knew what hit him.  Then he would know how women feel when he does that to them.<br />To get to know more about the Eastman and Cates families read Hearts Desire, A Magical Moment and Never Too Late For Love.  My favorite Monica Jackson story is The Look of Love.Look of Love.	2001-09-06
US	51831325	R2LWHV0EDDMG5K	0380819783	207180734	Crazy Thing Called Love	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Debut Novel Cindi	Cindi Louis has proven herself to be a good storyteller.  Her novel Crazy Thing Called Love was a great start to her published writing career.<br />The issues surrounding Judy Jayda Tillman are realistic.  There are alot of women that blame themselves for failed relationships.  There are alot of instances that the real issue in those relationships are on the part of the other person.<br />I was glad to see Attorney Jason McNeal teach Jayda not to be afraid of loving someone.  Their relationship developed naturally I think.  Jayda was really afraid to let her guard down.  Because of the things her ex-husband said and the way he treated her, she didn't even think she could satisfy a man.  She thought she was a disappointment in that area.<br />I think Cindi did a good job with the characters.  The language and interaction of the characters made them seem like you know them or someone like them.  She is well on her way to a successful writing career.	2001-09-05
US	51831325	R14TEUK960VPDL	1583141456	385588690	Surrender (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Surrender	Brenda Jackson is a master storyteller.  Her novels literally pull you in front page 1.  Her Madaris family and friends has become a favorite series on many bookselves across America. When Brenda tells a story everyone is listening.  Surrender is her next installment in the Madaris family and friends saga.<br />Ashton Sinclair has had his eye on Netherland(Nettie)Brooms for quite some time.  The only thing is Nettie won't give the man the time of day.  Ashton decides no matter how hard she tries to resist him, he is going to make Nettie HIS.<br />Nettie was what we call an &quot;army brat&quot;.  As a child, her family moved around alot.  Her father was in the military and was stationed in different parts of the country. This means that each time Nettie got comfortable in a place and found friends they had to move.  She decided that when she became an adult, she would never marry someone in the military.<br />She opens her own restaurant called &quot;Sisters&quot;.  Sisters was a great investment for Nettie.  It became a popular spot and alot of single women met single men at her establishment.  Trevor Grant, Dex and Clayton Madaris use to be regulars, until they got married.  Oh, they returned, but with their wives.<br />Nettie met Colonel Ashton Sinclair through mutual a friend Trevor Grant.  Trevor was in the Marines with Ashton at one time.  Nettie thought Ashton was a very handsome man and tried to ignore his blatant attraction toward her.  She was dead set against going out with him, because he was a military man.<br />Ashton had no shame in going after what he wanted &quot;Nettie&quot;!  He even told her that he loved her.  Nettie couldn't believe it.  He was breaking her resistance and finally she Surrendered.<br />I really loved the way Ms. Jackson brought all of our favorite people back to us. Brenda even introduced us to some other members of the Madaris family. I also was very intrigue by the Christy Madaris and Alex Maxwell relationship.  She put just enough of it in this book to make you wonder what is going to happen between the two.  I am glad Netherland decided to make her decision with her heart.  I don't think Ashton was the kind of man that would give up easily anyway.  He had already waited three years for her.<br />If you have never read a Brenda Jackson book, you better get started (smile).  Start with Tonight &amp; Forever followed by:  Cupid's Bow (Anthology in A Valentine Kiss), Whispered Promises, Eternally Yours, One Special Moment, Fire and Desire, Truly Everlasting (Anthology in Something to Celebrate), Secret Love and True Love.<br />Ms. Jackson, I only had the greatest expectation from you my friend!  Great Job!st enough of it in this book to make you wonder what is going to happen between the two.  I am glad Netherland decided to make her decision with her heart.  I don't think Ashton was the kind of man that would give up easily anyway.  He had already waited three years for her.<br />If you have never read a Brenda Jackson book, you better get started (smile).  Start with Tonight &amp; Forever followed by:  Cupid's Bow (Anthology in A Valentine Kiss), Whispered Promises, Eternally Yours, One Special Moment, Fire and Desire, Truly Everlasting (Anthology in Something to Celebrate), Secret Love and True Love.  <br />Ms. Jackson, I only had the greatest expectation from you my friend!  Great Job!	2001-08-13
US	51831325	R32ZU0SEVLTINV	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	5	6	9	N	N	That You Would Bless Me Indeed!	I received this little book as a gift from a friend.  She said &quot;I hope this book will bless you as much as it blessed me.&quot;  I shall say that I think this book is definitely a blessing.<br />I have read over some of the other reviews on this book.  I really don't think this prayer should replace THE LORD'S PRAYER.  I believe it should enhance the prayer life you already have.  For those who don't have a prayer life at all and this is the start of their prayer life, it should be an enriching experience.  Once you have read this, you will seek more.<br />I believe this book just shows you how an ordinary person can have an extraordinary life in Christ.  Jabez prayed that simple prayer and the Lord heard and answered his prayer.  I am a witness at seeing prayers answered.<br />I think this book was so popular as a cross over because it needs to touch everyone.  Not all people know where to start.  It's popularity reminds me of &quot;WOMAN THOU ART LOOSED&quot;.  It touched the lives of women of every nationality.  The JABEZ PRAYER is doing the same thing.  All I can say is read it, give one to a friend or a loved one.  TO GOD BE THE GLORY FOR THE THINGS HE HAS DONE!	2001-07-16
US	51831325	R36RDWTQ41IPBW	1583141928	663990874	Scarlet Woman (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Love!	Blake Hunter vowed that he would see to it that Melinda Rodgers would abide by the requests in his dead friends' will.<br />Blake always wondered why Melinda married Prescott Rodgers who was old enough to be her father.  Everyone in town felt that Melinda married Prescott for his money.  Prescott's will stated that Melinda had to set up a literacy foundation and married within a year's time.  If she failed to do so, she would loose her inheritance.<br />Melinda doesn't understand why her late husband would put such a harsh stipulation in the will.  She will try her best to do what is asked of her.  The only thing that really made her uncomfortable was working so closely with Blake.  She has always been attracted to the handsome attorney.<br />Blake learns alot of things about Melinda that changes his mind about her.  Melinda is falling more in love with Blake, the more they work together.  Blake also learns alot about his dear friend Prescott.<br />Blake doesn't want to disgrace Prescott's memory by falling in love with his wife.  He also doesn't want to see Melinda marry anyone else.<br />I was glad to see the mending of the relationships with Melinda and her parents.  Also with Blake and his father in Alabama.<br />My favorite novels by Ms. Forster are:  Sealed with a Kiss, Beyond Desire, Against all Odds and Fools Rush In.	2001-07-09
US	51831325	R95U1EGMSXKZY	1585710415	523203044	Subtle Secrets (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent!!	Subtle Secrets is the follow-up story of Nelson and Shelby Reeves friends Jordan &quot;JR&quot; Banks and Starris Gilmore.  Nelson and Shelby Reeves were the couple who lost their baby boy to SIDS.<br />Jordan Randolph J.R.  Banks receives a letter from his wife Gloria who is now deceased telling him that he has a daughter that is a year old.  Of course, J. R. didn't even know he had a child.  But the biggest blow is that the child is a ward of the state.<br />At the same time that Jordan received his letter, another person Lisa Mason who is Gloria's sister receives a letter also concerning this same child.  Lisa who is a drug addict decides to get clean and find her niece.<br />Jordan meets Starris Gilmore at an intrview for a position at R.O.B.Y. (Rescuing Our Black Youth)Starris found out about the position from her friend Shelby.  Jordan remembers Starris from Nelson and Shelby's wedding.  He also remembers how Starris' husband humilated her in front of everyone, after she presents the Reeves with a painted photograph.  Starris is trying her best to get this job because the only way she can adopt the child (Danielle) she has to have a steady job.  Danielle was labeled at the home as a special needs child.  Starris felt the only thing &quot;Dani&quot; needed was love. When she found out that Dani was left at the home, she really wanted to meet and get to know the child.  Dani was really a reluctant child and after living with Starris, she still working on her self-esteem.<br />Starris and Jordan got off on the wrong foot. Jordan immediately decides that the job Starris was interviewing for was already taken.  Starris knows he is lying, but leaves reluctantly. Before leaving she gives Jordan a piece of her mind!<br />Later that day he goes to his daughter Jolie's swim meet, who does he run into but Starris.  He admits to himself the fact that he is attracted to Ms. Gilmore.  He also finds out that Dani is his daughter Jolie's best friend.  He then offers Starris a job.  The girls have another plan in mind. They want their parents to fall in love and get married.  That way they would be sisters for real.<br />I really liked this story.  Jordan helped Starris find out what real love and lovemaking was all about.  Starris felt she wasn't good enough for Jordan.  She kept telling him she just wanted a professional relationship with him. She was hired to redecorate the offices at R.O.B.Y.  Jordan wasn't trying to hear it and told Starris as much.<br />I really loved the girls characters.  They were just like normal pre-teenaged girls.  Ms. Thomas did a fine job with every character in this book.  It was good to hear from Nelson and Shelby Reeves.  My hope is that she will continue with the other friends of Starris and Shelby.  Please read Truly Inseparable before reading Subtle Secrets.  That book was excellent too!Starris a job.  The girls have another plan in mind. They want their parents to fall in love and get married.  That way they would be sisters for real.<br />I really liked this story.  Jordan helped Starris find out what real love and lovemaking was all about.  Starris felt she wasn't good enough for Jordan.  She kept telling him she just wanted a professional relationship with him. She was hired to redecorate the offices at R.O.B.Y.  Jordan wasn't trying to hear it and told Starris as much.<br />I really loved the girls characters.  They were just like normal pre-teenaged girls.  Ms. Thomas did a fine job with every character in this book.  It was good to hear from Nelson and Shelby Reeves.  My hope is that she will continue with the other friends of Starris and Shelby.  Please read Truly Inseparable before reading Subtle Secrets.  That book was excellent too!	2001-07-09
US	51831325	R17XN8NCQV6A3	0786003847	372381049	Hidden Agenda (Arabesque)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	What a Wonderful Love Story	Eve Blackwell desperately wants her son Christopher back.  Christopher's father Alex kidnapped him.  Eve seeks the aid of a man her uncle Harry knows named Matthew Sterling.  What Eve doesn't know is that she will play a part in a plan so dangerous, it could take her life as well as the life of her young son.<br />Matthew Sterling is going to help Harry Blackwell's neice find her son, but this is the last time he will go undercover.  He is going to sell his motel and spend the rest of his life as a farmer.  He meets the lovely Eve and feelings begin to surface that he thought were gone.<br />Eve and Matt play the husband and wife charade.  Well after a while it was no longer a charade.  Now in order to find out what Alejandro Delgado did with Eve's son, they have to find him.<br />Hidden Agenda is book #2 of the Hideaway Series.  This story features Matthew Sterling who appeared in the book Hideaway.  I have read this book many times.  It is one of my favorite's in this series.  If you haven't met Matthew, please read Hideaway to get a good glimpse at him before reading this book.	2001-06-28
US	51831325	RAJG1Q0VRSC2M	1583140492	108232257	Under A Blue Moon (Arabesque)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Love Under A Blue Moon	Angelica wanted to get out of her marriage.  Yes, her husband Phillip was attractive and charming, but he was no good. He was involved in things a ligit lawyer wouldn't be involved in. He talks her into going to dinner with him on the boat named after her.  She reluctantly agrees and this day changed her life forever.  Angie is in an accident and can't remember what happened to her after she is rescued by the handsome doctor Matt and his dog Buster.  Matt is running away.  His wife is dead and they think he killed her.  Matt wants to help Angie.  The only reason he even knows her name is because of a piece of jewelry she is wearing.  In helping Angie get well and regain her memory, they fall in love.  Angie wants to help Matt put his life back together.  Of course, he resists, but when true  love's involved you might as well quit running.<br />This is Ms. Harrison second book.  I purchased this book when it was first published and just hadn't read it.  This book had a lot of suspense and I would like to see Angie's brother Reed with his own story.  If you have never read Ms. Harrison, please read her first book Picture Perfect.  It was excellent.  This one was good too, but I really loved Picture Perfect.	2001-06-25
US	51831325	R2D60A18SQKBZC	0786004541	2971604	Defenseless (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Lots of Drama!	...I really did like the story and the secondary characters made the story even more interesting.  It would be really interesting to see what happens between Laura and Malik.<br />I think my favorite Adrianne Byrd stories are:  I Promise and Say You Love Me.	2001-06-21
US	51831325	R2RPNW6PV88JE5	0786002980	525453747	At First Sight (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Oh MY!!!	So much drama!  Alexandra Jones meets Warren Michaels an old college mate of her brother David in his restaurant.  Warren invites David and Alexandra to his home for his birthday party.  David can't come, but Alexandra assures him that she will be there and will bring a friend.  Warren doesn't remember David having a sister so beautiful.  Alexandra was just 14 years old when Warren and David were in college.<br />Alexandra Jones is a hard-working young woman who is in a relationship that is at a dead end.  Her boyfriend Gerard is really beginning to bore her.  He is not thoughtful or considerate he is just Gerard.<br />Warren Michaels is a successful restaurateur.  He has two restaurants one on each side of the city.  He was in love with his girlfriend Susan, until she started accusing him of cheating on her.  She would even embarrass him in front of his friends with her nonsense.  He knew it was probably time to end this relationship.  He is excited about his birthday party.  Susan started tripping early that morning when Alexandra called to get information about the party.<br />Alexandra kind of felt Warren's girlfriend didn't like other women around him.  She and her best friend Shari went to Warren's party.  Warren asks Alexandra if she would like a tour of his spacious home and she agrees.  While they were in his exercise room, Warren's girlfriend Susan confronts him.  She wanted to know what he was doing down there with Alexandra alone!  Alexandra felt sorry for Warren, but Warren was kind of glad it happened.  He was getting sick of Susan and her sick accusations of him cheating on her.  She threatens that she will leave him and he says GOOO!!!!<br />Warren and Alexandra then start to see each other and the sparks fly between them.  Warren feels good about his relationship with Alexandra.  He wants to be with her all the time.  Well one evening Susan comes to see him at the club and drops the bomb on him that she is pregnant.  Warren can't believe it!  Alexandra asks him what the problem is and he tells her nothing.  Warren knows he shouldn't keep this from her, but if he tells her she might leave him.  Well you know she finds out and not only that she finds out that she is pregnant too!<br />I don't want to tell you anymore, because you have got to read this book.  My goodness!  I wish I would have read this book before now.  It was the BOMB!  I think this is the best book Ms. Faye has written to date.  You have got to read this book, if you haven't already.Alexandra asks him what the problem is and he tells her nothing.  Warren knows he shouldn't keep this from her, but if he tells her she might leave him.  Well you know she finds out and not only that she finds out that she is pregnant too!<br />I don't want to tell you anymore, because you have got to read this book.    My goodness!  I wish I would have read this book before now.  It was the BOMB!  I think this is the best book Ms. Faye has written to date.  You have got to read this book, if you haven't already.	2001-06-14
US	51831325	R1M0VPG05Y4WHE	0786004851	950616504	Rendezvous (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good Story!	Jade Bassett never expected to be broke and certainly not homeless, but after her gambling husband Tim gets himself killed  from a deal gone bad, that is exactly where Jade found herself.<br />Jade Bassett  worked hard and always brought her money home.  She  couldn't believe that her husband had gambled it all away.  Now the people her husband owes some money to is after her thinking she has the money.  She was living on the streets and had been going from shelter to shelter.  She ends up at a church only to find that they could only feed her, but couldn't give her a place to sleep for the night.  While at this church she meets one of its parishoners Jeffery Nelson.<br />Jeffery was bringin food to the church and decided to stay and help them feed the people.  Jeff was a very successful owner of his own Graphics Arts Design Business.  He liked helping others, but his girlfriend with her uppity self, thought homeless people were beneath her.  She always tried to run Jeff's life, but he wasn't havin' it!  He kept trying to break up with her, but she just kept coming back, like a bad case of the hiccups.  While helping in the church he runs into Jade and he immediately thinks she reminds him so much of his baby sister Diane who died 3 years prior.  He was then asked to take Jade to the shelter that was on the other side of town, but when they arrived the shelter had no beds left.  This is when Jeff made up in his mind that he would help Jade get back on her feet.<br />Jeff started by getting his dear friend Trina to come over and take Jade get new clothes and groomed properly.  He didn't pressure her to tell him about her background, he knew she would tell him in time. Jeff started looking at Jade in a different manner.  Jade started feeling the same way about Jeff.  She didn't want to get Jeff or Trina involved in this mess that Tim has gotten her into, but she needed help.  She would trust them.<br />This book got me from the first page.  I was really trying to find out what happened to this money her husband supposedly left with her.  Great job Ms. Andersonto find out what happened to this money her husband supposedly left with her.  Great job Ms. Anderson	2001-06-11
US	51831325	R23C2GV4SBKDK	1583141308	963702103	Through the Fire (Arabesque)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	I'LL GLADLY RISK IT ALL!!!	THROUGH THE FIRE to the limit to the wall, for a chance to be with you I'll gladly risk it all...THROUGH THE FIRE what ever come what may for a chance at loving you I'll taking it all the way...From the famous Chaka Khan tune befits the title chosen by Ms. Hill for the last installment in the life of the successful and talented Quinten Parker.<br />This man's life has spanned three books.  We first meet him in the book A PRIVATE AFFAIR.  This is when we find out that his mother left him and his twin sister Lacy, then the twin later looses her life by a bullet.  Quinn does find the love of his life Nikita Harrell.  Then in PIECES OF DREAMS he looses Nikita and his world is turned upside down when he finds out his has a son by his childhood friend.  Quinten finally finds happiness in Through the Fire.<br />Rae Lindsay has had disaster in her life as well.  She looses her husband and daughter in a shooting.  Her life has never been the same.  How do you live again after loosing to of the most important people in your life.  Well Rae lived day to day.  One day she meets Quinten Parker.  She knew of him because he was a famous musician.  She also knew of the loss of his wife Nikita.  They had a lot in common.<br /> Quinten is attracted to Rae, but is trying to fight it.  He feels that it just wouldn't work out.  One of them would be hurt and he didn't want it to be him.  Even though he told himself this, he still keeps coming around her.  Be it at her apartment or at Encore at night club.  THROUGH THE FIRE was such a great title for this book. Quinten definitely had been THROUGH THE FIRE.  I am sooo glad Quinten finally found peace in the areas of his life.  Rae needed to find peace also, but Quinten had a lot of things to put in perspective.  He needed to realize that everything was not his fault and that forgiveness is a wonderful thing.  I am glad Ms. Hill gave Quinten a happy ending.<br />Please read these books in order to know why Mr. Parker is the way he is.  PRIVATE AFFAIR, PIECES OF DREAMS, then read THROUGH THE FIRE.PRIVATE AFFAIR, PIECES OF DREAMS, then read THROUGH THE FIRE.	2001-06-06
US	51831325	R3LJ2QA6TJKK1I	1583141650	761427881	Three Times a Lady (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent !!	The sophisticated and successful Mia Gordon decided to purchase her own home.  As she was moving in she noticed that her neighbors kids just made them self at home inside hers.  She was wondering who would have 5 kids in this day and age.  Most of her friends were too busy to have one kid let alone have 5.  She found that their father the best selling author Jordan Banks was a clumsy man that kind of reminded you of Steve Urkel.<br />Jordan Banks was so clumsy, I started thinking I hope he doesn't kill himself before he gets the girl (smile).  Well Jordan fooled Mia and me too!  He really knew how to get a girls attention.  Mia couldn't help but be attracted to him.  Jordan had compassion and when Mia found out that he adopted all 5 children she was even more attracted to him.<br />These kids decided that they wanted Mia to become their mother, so they devised a plan to make that happen.  Even when a couple of other people threatened to make their dream a reality, they went into action.  They had to get these people out of the picture, so that they could become a real family.<br />I think Ms. Bryant did a wonderful job at bringing a light-hearted comedy to us. I loved the secondary characters and their budding relationships. The children had wonderful personalities.  I even enjoyed the smart mouthed Tia, the oldest girl.  Even though this is only her second book, she writes well and has brought wonderful stories to us.  Great Job Niobia!!	2001-06-06
US	51831325	R3NLQE9NI78PU0	1583141650	761427881	Three Times a Lady (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Love is Where You Find It---Anywhere	Niobia Bryant has given us another wonderful love story.  <br />You would never think that a classy lady like Mia would fall in love with Jordan Banks A. K. A. Mr. Klutz.  This man was so clumsy, I kept laughing when things would happen.  I kept saying to myself, I know this can't be the hero, he keeps falling.  I also wondered will the man off himself before they even fall in love. Mia thought he was kind of Steve Urkle like when they first met.  Then she started to get to know him better. Well, Jordan Banks provedto me that he may be clumsy, but he was the ultimate lover for Mia.  He would even ask her can anyone else make you feel like this.  All I could think was LORD HAVE MERCY!!!!<br />Mr. Banks 5 children played a lead role in getting him and Mia together.  These children knew they wanted Mia as their mother.  They were determined to do just that!  From, Raj the oldest to the twins each child had a strong bond with their father.  Even when another man and woman threatened their plan, they found a way to get them out of the picture.  Tia the oldest girl with her smart mouth just brought the children's character full circle.<br />This book had me laughing and smiling throughout.  I feel Ms. Bryant is a wonderful storyteller and this is only her 2nd book.  If you have never read any of her books, please pick up Admission of Love (MAJOR!) and this one.  If you don't you will definitely miss a treat!	2001-05-31
US	51831325	R1IXWKJYYAKF18	1583141316	621227054	Undeniably Yours (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Incrediable	Undeniably Yours is the long awaited story of Matthew St. Charles and the lovely Kaitlin Ransom.  In the novel Forever Always,(which is the story of Ray Ransom and Carrie Nichols) we thought Kaitlin died in a fiery plane crash.  Everyone in her family was trying to come to grips with this tragedy, but Matt didn't believe she was dead.  Matt loved Kaitlin so much, he would have known if she was dead.  Kaitlin's family which is a very tight knit group tried to move on with their lives.  Her sister Jillian thought she spotted her at an airport, her brother Laine was having dreams about her.  They both dismissed it.  Laine's sister-in-law Sabrina who has a gift of being prophetic told Ray(Kaitlin's brother) that Kaitlin is alive and in trouble.  Of course Ray who can be a hot headed brother told her to stop her non-sense.  Well UNDENIABLY YOURS answers some questions we have been asking ourselves for the last two years.  One being what happened to Kaitlin Ransom.<br />Kaitlin went to Mexico at the request of a dear friend from college.  What Kaitlin was not expecting was all the drama surrounding this friend and her family.  Kaitlin is soon taken away and was trying to figure out how she got to where she was in her life.  All she wanted to do is go home.  She thought about Matt everyday, but could not contact him.  She is soon reunited with Matthew, but when Matthew finds out that she was married to his arch enemy, he is a time bomb.  Matthew had his own reasons for hating the notorious Hector Rosales.<br />I don't really want to spoil the story, because if I tell you one thing, it will give away some other things in the story.<br />This story had so much drama, passion and intrigue that all you could do was keep turning the pages to see what will happen next.  I was shocked at some points in the story, happy, sad and all around just satisfied.<br />Ms. Thomas presents a very loving God-fearing family.  We get to visit with the entire Ransom gang and their extended family and friends.  I was really happy to see Sabrina end up with a wonderful man like Preacher.  I am not sure what is happening with the baby girl of the family Elle.  I am sure with all the drama surrounding her, Ms. Thomas is going to present another wonderful story about another Ransom.  I look forward to that.  I really like the way Ms. Thomas expressed the belief and faith that she has in God in this story.  Very well done Ms. Thomas!!amily and friends.  I was really happy to see Sabrina end up with a wonderful man like Preacher.  I am not sure what is happening with the baby girl of the family Elle.  I am sure with all the drama surrounding her, Ms. Thomas is going to present another wonderful story about another Ransom.  I look forward to that.  I really like the way Ms. Thomas expressed the belief and faith that she has in God in this story.  Very well done Ms. Thomas!!	2001-05-30
US	51831325	RZCFVBTNKQWB4	1585710407	225076	The Reluctant Captive (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Provocative Debut Novel by Ms. Jackson	The Reluctant Captive was an intriguing tale of a young woman named Katherine who fell victim to mistaken identity.<br />Katherine's uncle Julius Wellington had been appointed to the Board of Directors of the World Bank.  He asked Katherine if she would accompany him to a banquet in honor of this history making event in Kenya.  Mr. Wellington was the first African American to be appointed to the board.  Katherine is crazy about her uncle and accepts.  Julius' daughter JaLisa is going also, but when it's time for the dinner, she is ill and can not attend.<br />Katherine is in the ladies room and is kidnapped by NZee and her accomplice David.  They take Katherine to their leader Jackson Shugaa.  They thought Katherine was Julius's daughter and felt they could use her to influence him to do what they wanted him to do.<br />Jackson wants to return Katherine, but unfortunately there were events that made him have to keep Katherine longer than he anticipated.<br />NZee didn't like Katherine period.  NZee was in love with Jackson and wanted no one else to be near him.  She beats Katherine up and Jackson decides that Katherine will stay with him until she can be returned.  NZee is burning up now! She hates the American!<br />Katherine didn't want to be there, let alone stay in the same place with Jackson.  She just wanted to go home.  She did notice Jackson's golden eyes and was mesmerized.  She didn't like living in the wild life, but noticed she had to survive and did.  Katherine started feeling things that she had never felt before.  Jackson seem to pull her to him anytime they were near each other.<br />Jackson knew NZee and a couple other women in his village was in love with him.  He loved them too, but not in a passionate manner.  Katherine on the other hand, really made him think about things of the heart.  Their closeness every night was very sensual.  I think Jackson was taken with Katherine right away.<br />THE RELUCTANT CAPTIVE was a very romantic story.  I usually don't like jungle adventures, but this one was very well done.  I loved the chemistry between Jackson and Katherine.  Ms. Jackson did a wonderful job bringing adventure and romance together.  Good Job!I usually don't like jungle adventures, but this one was very well done.  I loved the chemistry between Jackson and Katherine.  Ms. Jackson did a wonderful job bringing adventure and romance together.  Good Job!	2001-05-25
US	51831325	R1MX1YO2CSDDY2	0595162029	280455266	Vivid	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Family , Forgiveness and Restoration	Each Beverly Jenkins novel gives you not only a wonderful romance, but a great history lesson.  Vivid was the only book I didn't have in my collection of books by her.  I finally found a one with the original cover.  Dr. Vivica Lancaster was a beautiful, yet bold young woman doctor from California.  She accepts a job in a small town in Grayson, Michigan.  <br />She gets off the train and meets Nate Grayson who thinks Dr. Lancaster is a man.  When Vivica told him she was the doctor, he didn't believe her and they waited almost till the sun went down before they would head by the Grayson.  Nate then after talking to the beautiful doctor told her she would last the first winter.  Vivid felt he had a lot of nerve.  She was not afraid of the cold.  There were others in Grayson who didn't want to have a woman doctor.  Soon some of the people started to take a liking to her.  Vivid did have alot of obstacles to overcome.<br />Her relationship with Nate was one of much passion.  Nate was a very caring and loving man.  He was afraid to fall for a woman such as Vivid, because his previous wife was not true to her marriage vows.  He tried staying away from her at first, but kept finding himself wanted to be in her presence.  <br />Nate had a daughter named Magic, which he found on the steps of the hospital.  Magic was a very energetic child who loved her father very much.  Vivid thought Magic reminded her alot of herself when she was a young child.<br />Vivid was a story of love, family and forgiveness.  It painted a picture of how people really lived back in those days.  I admired Vivid in standing her ground and proving that she was just as good a doctor as the next man.	2001-05-24
US	51831325	REOZY6587CGVX	0595162029	280455266	Vivid	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Family , Forgiveness and Restoration	Each Beverly Jenkins novel gives you not only a wonderful romance, but a great history lesson.  Vivid was the only book I didn't have in my collection of books by her.  I finally found  one with the original cover.  Dr. Vivica Lancaster was a beautiful, yet bold young woman doctor from California.  She accepts a job in a small town in Grayson, Michigan.<br />She gets off the train and meets Nate Grayson who thinks Dr. Lancaster is a man.  When Vivica told him she was the doctor, he didn't believe her and they waited almost till the sun went down before they would head back to Grayson.  Nate then after talking to the beautiful doctor told her she would not last the first winter.  Vivid felt he had a lot of nerve.  She was not afraid of the cold weather.  There were others in Grayson who didn't want to have a woman doctor.  Soon some of the people started to take a liking to her.  Vivid did have alot of obstacles to overcome.<br />Her relationship with Nate was one of much passion.  Nate was a very caring and loving man.  He was afraid to fall for a woman such as Vivid, because his previous wife was not true to her marriage vows.  He tried staying away from her at first, but kept finding himself wanting to be in her presence.<br />Nate had a daughter named Magic, which he found on the steps of the hospital.  Magic was a very energetic child who loved her father very much.  Vivid thought Magic reminded her alot of herself when she was a young child.<br />Vivid was a story of love, family and forgiveness.  It painted a picture of how people really lived back in those days.  I admired Vivid in standing her ground and proving that she was just as good a doctor as the next man.	2001-05-24
US	51831325	R2JQHKMCBNCLVP	1583140514	169377544	A Test Of Time (Arabesque)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Love that Will Stand The Test of Time	A Test of Time is the Second Installment in the lives of Mark and Nicole Peterson.  We first meet them in A Time For Us.  Mark is the owner of a prestigious real estate firm.  Nicole is an excellent Administrative Secretary working for his company.  Mark is smitten by Nicole's good looks and later her wit and her charm.  A Test of Time starts where A Time for Us leaves off.  The resort they built is opening and the architect Ms. Ashlei Brown was there.  We learned that Ashlei wanted Mark the moment she laid eyes on her.  Mark didn't want her though.<br />There is a lot of things going on in this story.  I first read A Time For Us and liked it very much.  Nicole's intuition about Ms. Ashlei Brown was right on the money.  My feeling is that there are a handful of misunderstandings.  This was why I was so excited about reading A Test of Time.  I figured there was going to be more going on with Ms. Brown in this story and I wasn't wrong.  I really don't want to reveal anything, because I think both books are worth reading.  At times I got very upset with Mark and Nicole.  I think what saved me from not really liking them was their daughter Tiandra.  I also liked Nicole's parents and was glad Mark reconciled with his older sister.  If you come across A Test of Time before A Time for Us, please find A Time of Us and read it first.  It will answer alot of questions, you probably would have about the couple and their family.<br />I have read First Love and the anthology in Mama Dear by Cheryl Faye.  I must say she is a very good writer.  I would like to know if Yvonne and Lucien will have their story told?	2001-05-07
US	51831325	RIHKUK4T0LKKI	0786004177	265601482	A Time for Us (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Time for Love	Nicole Johnson starts a new job and never thought she would be attracted to the owner of the company, Mark Peterson.  On a company picnic, they are together and she is really attracted to him.  She decides it wouldn't be a good idea to get involved with him, so she stays away.  Nicole goes on vacation in Jamaica and who does she run into Mark Peterson.  Mark is like a magnet and Nicole just can't help herself.  She talks herself into going along with having a good time with her, besides no one will know their in Jamica.  She hates it when their vacation is over and now how will she get him out of her mind and heart.<br />Nicole Johnson is falling in love with her Boss.  She didn't want to be in love with him, but he is so irresistable.  Mark wants to persue Nicole, but knows how she feels about an office romance.  They are getting closer by the day.  Nicole is going to have to do something.  She just can't live without Mark.  Mark feels the same way.  She decides to quit her job and go to work for another firm.  This way she can be with Mark.<br />Mark and Nicole marry and they seem to have a wonderful life together.  Mark wants to build a hotel and that is when architect Ashlei Brown comes into the picture.  Ashlei Brown wants Mark Peterson bad.  She doesn't understand what he sees in a woman like Nicole.  She thought Nicole was pretty, but she didn't feel that she was good enough for Mark.<br />Please read this book.  It was really good.  I think Mark really loved Nicole, but he didn't really listen to her about Ashlei Brown.  Most of the time women can tell when another woman is after a man. Nicole didn't trust Mark enough to me.  She would make her own conclusions, even after he explained to her what happened.  There is a sequel to this book A Test of Time, please pick it up also.	2001-05-07
US	51831325	ROKCXI0S7AD48	1583141693	176828191	Once And Again (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Congratulations Dee!	Daphne Thorne and Nathan Ward were first seen in the book Always which is Ms. Savoy second novel.  Nathan and Daphne have a past, one that Daphne Thorne would like to forget.<br />As Once and Again opens, Nathan is getting married to his precious baby girl's (Emily) mother Monica.  Daphne takes a seat in the back hoping not to be spotted by Nathan.  Nathan receives a note from Monica stating she just can't marry him.  Nathan is really relieved by this situation and at that moment vows to get his life together and stop living so carefree.  He now has his daughter Emily to think about.<br />Nathan then decides to ask Daphne to allow him to rent her basement apartment to him and his infant daughter.  Daphne wonders what his motives are because Nathan is a famous singer with lots of money.  This man could live anywhere, why here?  She asks herself.  Well, Daphne requests an enormous sum of month for renting the apartment.  She felt that way she could get rid of him quick, but he agrees with no problem.  Daphne would then try to stay away from the smooth talking Nathan Ward and try to guard her heart.  She didn't want him to break it a second time.  Nathan on the other hand had other ideas for Ms. Thorne.  Nathan has always loved Daphne even in her teen years.  He now wants to show her that he is not the man he used to be and that she is the only woman for him.<br />To get a better understanding of the conclusions drawn of Mr. Ward's character read Always first before Once and Again.  Ms. Savoy is only been a published romance author for a couple of years.  Every novel she presents has been great!  My favorite story is Spellbound.  Good job Dee!	2001-05-04
US	51831325	RH97DU3VQP4ZY	158571044X	388573909	Intimate Intentions (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Romance, Drama and Suspense at it's Best!	Sasha Moore wanted to pursue her dream of having her own line of bridal gowns.  Sasha a retired model was in a crunch to start her business, so she took a modeling job with Diva Designs.  She was replacing a model from Diva Designs named Deja, who was found murdered.  Sasha was intrigued by the company president Terraine.  She didn't know he was the president when she met him at a nightclub.  She was kind of turned off by him when she found out that he was the president of the company.  But he was so handsome, she just couldn't help but be attracted to him.<br />Terraine Andrews inherits the family business.  The company is not doing well.  He and his grandfather had an argument some years before and he was some what estranged from him.  His grandfather dies and Terraine steps in to try help the family business.  Terraine is attracted to Sasha's beauty and intellect.  He is usually a player, but she makes him want more out of life.  They really find that they have alot to talk about.  Terraine (Tee) is really concerned when another Diva model is found murdered.  Who could be doing this and why?<br />Intimate Intentions was a book that was kind of like Detective Columbo and Murder She Wrote movie of the week.  There were so many people that I was thinking was the killer.  I then found out that the person I was thinking was not it.  Then you have some underhanded things going in the business itself.  Their god-sister was very nasty.<br />Ms. Daniels did a good job with her debut novel.  This book was full of surprises.  I hope she will purse Jay  (Tee's brother) and Honey's (Sasha's best friend) story.  There is definitely a story there.  Hat's off to Ms. Daniels.	2001-04-25
US	51831325	R52YTH0679M2F	1583141499	596809930	Dream Wedding (Arabesque)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Young Love	Missy Harrison had been in love with Jim T (Jimmy Tanner Scott) since high school.  Missy even use to day dream about what her dream wedding would be like when she married Jimmy T.<br />After graduation Missy and Jimmy T had an argument and she went to Philadelphia to attend college.<br /> Missy returns to Maryland only to get married to Walter Wilson.  Everyone in their small town always thought Missy would marry Jimmy T, even her mother.  Her car breaks down and Jimmy T who is the local mechanic, comes to her rescue.  Missy can't help but remember what Jimmy T was like when they dated.<br />Missy feels it is unfair to Walter to marry him when she has so many thoughts of Jimmy T in her mind constantly.  When she cancels the wedding Jimmy T decides to show her that they belong together.<br />I really liked the older characters in this story.  There is so much wisdom there.<br />This is the second story by Ms. Wootson.  If you have not done so, you should read Snowbound with Love.	2001-04-23
US	51831325	R1KKQQFFSGY0U	1583141286	122822395	Everything To Gain (Arabesque)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Let's Talk About It Please!!	Caroline Duval was really in love while in college.  Caroline decided after finding out the guy had betrayed her, she just cut her losses and walk away from the relationship.<br />She runs into him at a hotel in Connecticut and he offers her a ride home, because she just dumped the guy she had been dating.  Caroline hesistanly accepted the ride home, but would never ask him why he didn't tell her the truth about himself.  Caroline was invited to help out at a community center for a friend of her college classmate and close friend down in Atlanta.  Caroline didn't think she would run into her old love from college.  Ironically, he was working at the same community center.<br />Derek Roberts loved Caroline Duval.  He actually wanted to make her his wife while in collge,  but could never understand why Caroline would trust him enough to tell him her secret.  He overheard some classmates discussing Caroline and he couldn't believe his ears.<br />These people had a communication problem.  This happens in all types of relationships,female/male, male/male and female/female as well.  I believe if Caroline had talked to Derek from the beginning, she wouldn't had to have a second chance with him.m  It was nice revisiting with Zoe and Ian's family.  I loved their daughter Savannah's character.  I am glad Caroline got her man.  Good Story.	2001-04-18
US	51831325	R3J0PVKPE3S53Y	0786004061	549622758	Step by Step (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Love &amp; Trust	Step by Step was a moving story about love and trust.  Leah was a successful accountant who seemed to have a hard childhood.  Her parents were killed in an automobile accident, so she and her sister had to go and live with their aunt.  Leah was the heavy in stature and her sister was slim and beautiful.  Leah's sister dated a man that beat her frequently.  Each time Leah would try to confront her sister about the beatings, she would only tell Leah she wouldn't understand.  Leah felt if she stayed away from men, she didn't have to worry about her heart being broken.  She mets Jason Duval.  Jason is a hardworking architect.  Jason is attracted to Leah and tries to be a gentlemen about it.  He sees that she is not trying to get involved with him and he doesn't want to push it.  But he just can't help himself.  Leah is going through a tough time after her sister who has been in a coma for years after being beaten by her boyfriend takes a turn for the worst.  Leah didn't want Jason's help, but she only finds comfort in his arms.<br />This story talked about domestic violence.  There are many women today that dealing with this issues.  If not for themselves, they have a friend or relative that is.  It was a good story in all.	2001-04-16
US	51831325	R2SA84GOEQYWK1	1583141294	612438703	Dangerous Passions (Arabesque)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Passion!	Marita has never been the same after her fiance Remmy was murdered right before her very eyes.  The man the murdered the love of her life was put away.  Marita tried to move on with her life.  She decided to take her relative up on her offer to stay at her summer home on an island.  She arrives and finds her childhood friend staying in the home also.<br />Shemar has always been smitten with Marita.  After a failed marriage with a woman who loved his money more than she loved him.  Shemar was very cautious of women after that.  He acted very cautiously with Marita eventhough he was attracted to her.  Marita was confused with Shermar's behavior.  He had always been kind to her as they were growing up.<br />Marita and Shemar's love grew over the time they spent at the house on the island.  Valerin comes after Marita and Shermar's ex-wife's cousin was a pyscho.  In order for Marita and Shemar to become one, Marita had to let go of the past and so did Shemar.	2001-04-13
US	51831325	R3HOTOI9L1VHHQ	1585710490	67781815	Eve's Prescription (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Good	Todd and Eve Garrett were on their way to a romantic getaway when Todd lost control of the car.  Todd saved Eve, but couldn't save himself.  Todd died leaving Eve with their young son Sean to raise.<br />Eve was an excellent Prosecuting Attorney.  She took her work seriously and loved it.  She really didn't have a social life.  Now that Todd was gone, she just wasn't interested in becoming involved with any man.  Eve's played Dominos with her friend Ebony and her husband.  Ebony tried to set Eve up with a hunk named Noah.  At their first meeting there was a spark of something between them.  Eve had heard about Noah's reputation as a ladies man and didn't want to become another conquest for him.  She had only been with her husband Todd and they had been married for 14 years.  Noah wanted to get to know Eve and was definitely thinking of a lasting relationship with her, if she would just give him a chance.<br />Eve's Prescription was Edwina's first romance novel.  It was a wonderful story about a woman trying to fight her way back to the world of love and romance.  Great job Ms. Edwina.	2001-04-13
US	51831325	R31CSR9Y45HSJA	0373035314	804512408	Ready-Made Bride (Whirlwind Weddings)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Family Book	Andrew Fielding wanted a new mommy.  Andy's mom died when he was just a toddler, so he didn't really remember her.  His father bought him a book called Andy's Adventures.  It was a series of children's books written by Megan Sanders.  Andy's father Kane allowed him to write Megan a letter.  For about 1 1/2 Andy wrote letters to Megan and they became quick friends.  Andy wanted Megan to be his new mom.  He invites her to spend his birthday with him, surprisingly she accepts.<br />Megan Sanders yearned to be a mother to a precious child.  When she receives her first letter from Andy, she is surprised by the everyday life of this child.  She starts basing her Andy's Adventure books on some of the things he writes about in his letters.  Megan wanted to spend Andy's birthday with him.  When she arrives she never expected Andy's dad to be so handsome.  She finds him to be a little standoffish and angry.<br />Kane Fielding started to rethink his decision to let Megan Sanders the beautiful writer of children's books stay with them while visiting his son.  Megan awakened feelings he hasn't had in years.  But with the turn of events he ends up trying to keep his secret from Megan and everyone else.<br />I usually don't read this type of romance novels, but a friend of mine did a review on this story and I decided to get it.  It was a really good story.	2001-04-09
US	51831325	RRCWEXV5C5JKV	0312978626	299683875	The Turning Point	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent! Excellent! Excellent!	Lilly Crawford was in a very abusive relationship.  After the death of her mother-in-law, Lilly decided it was time for her to get out of the marriage.  Taking care of her mother-in-law was her only happiness, now she was gone and there was no reason to stay.  She packs a few things and leaves the house.  She had to hurry, because her husband Myron was very well known.  Lilly heads toward Lousiana to start a new life, but her car breaks down.  Lilly wonders to a house near by and ends up accepting a job taking care of a man that seems to hate life and everyone around him (Dr. Adam Wakefield).<br />Adam was a victim of an awful car jacking.  Instead of Adam giving his car up, he resisted and ended up blind.  He hated life and tried to keep himself locked up in his room. The once confident and prominent neurosurgeon felt he would never really live again, just exist. When Lilly started to care for him, she didn't know how to get him to eat and regain the confidence he once had as a neurosurgeon in California.  Her first reaction was that he had just as bad a temper as Myron.  Lilly was determined to help Adam despite the bad temper.<br />The Turning Point was a poignant story about some of life's hardest battles.  The story makes you wonder what it would be like to be blind and abused by someone.  Some of the trials of life will make you want to give up.  In this story, you immediately hope the characters in the story find the happiness they deserve.<br />Francis Ray shares with her readers her own testimony about her brush with the possibility of blindness.  She has always been a master storyteller. Her characters are so well written you feel you know them.  I think she has succeeded in making the transition to mainstream fiction writing.  Congratulations to Ms. Ray on a job well done.  But, when I think about it, I couldn't have expected anything less from her.	2001-04-04
US	51831325	R1PLZS0D15YJ4P	158314157X	954021845	His 1-800 Wife	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Excellent	Catherine Carson needed a husband so her mother and sister would get off of her back.  She needed to come up with a plan that would make her marriage look real, but she would only have to keep up with the charade for 6 months.  After that, she could go on her merry way.<br />Catherine sets up a 1-800 number in her home.  She would scan the callers and choose the lucky man from there.  Well one day she recognizes one of the voices.  She couldn't put her finger on who the voice belonged to, but knew it was familiar.  Catherine runs into her childhood enemy Jarrod Greene.  Jarrod has been away for a while.  When he speaks to her, she is reminded of the voice on her answering machine.  Jarrod is indeed the caller from her 1-800 line.  Catherine talks Jarrod into becoming the lucky husband.<br />Jarrod was in love with Catherine.  It seems he has been in love with her since their early teen years. He tries to prove to Catherine that maybe being married to him forever isn't too bad.<br />His 1-800-Wife was not something you would normally see from the Mystery &amp; Intrigue Queen Ms. Hailstock.  This story was really wonderful.  Jarrod and Catherine relationship seem valid.  The secondary characters added to the story.  You could even see a sequel in Elizabeth and Robert.  My favorite Shirley Hailstock books are Whispers of Love, Legacy and Opposites Attract, novella in Island Magic was excellent too.	2001-04-02
US	51831325	R33SZB91BAVFLC	0380813785	402562555	If You Want Me	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I Got You Babe!	Alice Watson had an emotionally unstable family life.  Her only safety zone is her father.  He seems the only one in her family that believes she can do anything. But that would soon fail, because her father died and now she really felt all alone. At school Alice is always laughed at and talked about.  Alice wondered would she ever find any peace.  Well, she found it in acting. When Alice was acting she felt nothing and nobody could harm her.  She had a good friend Marcus Quinn.  Alice always looked up to Marcus for encouragement.  After a while, Alice fell in love with Marcus.  Marcus confides in her and she feels very close to him.<br />One day Marcus tells her that he is going to ask Tanisha one of the most popular girls in school to be his bride.  Alice thought she was going to die... But she didn't she left home after graduation and became an actress.<br />Thirteen years later, Alice was good at her craft and made a name for herself.  After her mother is admitted to the hospital for heart trouble, she has to come back to her hometown of Chicago and face all of her demons including her mother.  She finds Marcus and Tanisha divorced, leaving Marcus a bitter man when it comes to women.  She surprised her ex-classmates with her celebrity status.  She felt good about doing well inspite of what they thought about her.<br />There were alot of things happening in this book.  I like the suspense, but when I found out who done it, I thought the reasons could have been more powerful than they were.  I liked the story very much, but wanted to knock Marcus out!!!!	2001-03-27
US	51831325	R393IDMOB8ZXYU	1583141855	115709634	Love Notes (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Family Drama!	Anthony and Nina Carpenter's marriage was in trouble.  Anthony was part owner in a Jazz club along with his brother Cecil.  Cecil being the irresponsible brother made running the popular night spot hard on Anthony.  Anthony was consumed with the club that he forgot about his wife.<br />Nina being afraid to confront Anthony because she knew she was going to start an argument, started to shut down.  They knew they loved each other, but would wonder why they couldn't get it right.<br />They both seek out the advice of their parents.  Anthony went to talk to his father and Nina her mother at first.  Anthony's talk with his father was very enlightening.  His father told him to take care of his wife and stop trying to take care of his grown siblings.  After the talk with his father, Anthony decides it is high time to get his own house in order.<br />Nina's talk with her mother was not what she expected.  Nina never would have guessed her mother felt the way she did about marriage.  She told Nina things that were unthinkable to Nina.  Nina then talked to her father to see if he could shed any light on what she talked to her mother about.  Again, Nina was surprised.<br />A series of events occurred that would change both families lives forever.<br />This book was so good.  The drama and suspense was great.  I think the characters main and secondary were excellent.  A very well told story.  This is my first full length Leslie Esdaile book.  I did enjoy her in Midnight Clear.  She is an extrodinary author.  I also have her book Slow Burn.	2001-03-24
US	51831325	RTDIVDHAKGGP5	1583141332	230104875	A Reason To Love (Arabesque)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Love, Danger, and Intrigue	Niki Hamilton is a pediatrician in San Francisco.  She has lost three patients in the last couple of months.  The death of the last child leaves Niki so upset, that she decides to visit her friend Kim who lives in New Jersey.  We first meet Kim and Niki in the book Remembrance.  Kim who has been a playboy bunny and has been married so many times, you loose count.  Kim owns a dating services called Coffee Mates. Kim has a family emergency, so Niki ends up running Coffee Mates while she is gone.<br />Cary Thomas is the owner of his own landscaping company.  Cary is contracted to complete a landscaping job for Kim.  He arrives and meets Niki.  Niki thinks Cary is just a common laborer.  Cary wants to get to know Niki better, so the only way to do that is to pose as a customer for Coffee Mates.<br />Niki is being threatened by someone and the turn of events makes her very nervous.  She is confronted with information about some of her closest friends and colleague.  Now who will she trust, when everyone looks guilty.<br />A Reason to Love started out kind of slow, but picked up as the story went on.  I think the mystery was good, you think you've figured it out and something else happens.  To get familiar with Niki and her friends read Remembrance first before A Reason to Love.	2001-03-22
US	51831325	R3MCW6YJIVY5X5	1585710377	278579225	The Missing Link (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Finding the Missing Link	Shanna Taylor caught her husband with his blond blue-eyed secretary.  Shanna couldn't believe that Paul had cheated on her.  When she confronted him, he cleaned out his things from the house.  He left her and their two boys.  Shanna is left with a mortgage and raising the boys alone.  She decides to rent out the small studio over the garage which Paul used as his office.  She retained the assistance of her supervisor for a potential renter.  When her boys assured her that he found the perfect person to rent her studio, Shanna never imagined it would be a man and a gorgeous one at that.  Immediately, when Shanna opened her front door for Craig Boyd, she knew she was in trouble big time.<br />Craig had decided he wasn't going to get involved with a beautiful woman again.  He was in San Francisco to run that division of the company he was working for.  He missed his son Danny, whose mother wouldn't allow him joint custody.  She had her parents raising the child instead of taking care of him herself.  Craig is attracted to Shanna.  She is a refreshing difference between Shanna and his ex-wife Ann.  Craig decided to pursue Shanna.  Shanna was not very trusting of men and he had to gain her trust.<br />The story was good.  I really liked the children's role in getting Craig and Shanna together.  Shanna and Craig found several links missing and together they put those links in place. I think there could have been a little more incidents with the ex-wife to make the mistrust issue more believable.	2001-03-19
US	51831325	R2N7JTKYDKKZ7I	1583141383	541122717	Love Affair (Arabesque)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	The Affair	Desiree Mack was an appraisal agent for resort hotels.  She enjoyed her work very much.  After a recent breakup with her fiancee, she was asked to assist one of the bosses of her company on an appraisal trip to Africa.  Desiree thought it a good idea to get far away.  She was asked to potray the bosses wife.  Desiree thought it part of the job and didn't mind, but soon found herself attracted and falling for her handsome boss Austin Hughes.<br />Austin Hughes thought using Desiree as his wife a piece of cake, since he has been at this for so long.  He used another agent numerous times in the past.  He never thought Desiree would effect him the way she did.  She was so easy going and loving, he found he couldn't see his life without her in it.  He even gave her a nickname Desi.  Desiree got sick on the way back to the United States.  Austin told the flight attendant that his wife was ill.  He later realized he actually thought of Desiree in that way. He wanted to protect and care for her. Austin finds out someone is trying to destroy his business and starts to work on finding out who it is.<br />Love Affair was a simple story about falling in love. I think there could have been a little more intrigue with the person who was trying to sabatoge Austin's business.  I am however,looking forward to Vivian and Zack's story.	2001-03-19
US	51831325	R1HS68DD1DW467	1583141413	701129235	Desperate Deceptions (Arabesque)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Family Secrets Revealed	Erika Edmonds was trying to get through her OB residency and take care of her sick mother. Erika's mother had a disease that usually is diagnosed as Alzheimer's.  She decides to put her mother in a 24-hour care facility.  Erika doesn't feel comfortable about the decision.  A short time later, her mother dies and now Erika only has her aunt Arlene, her mother's sister or so she thinks....<br />Erika met Dr. Michael Mathis who is a popular pediatric surgeon.  Michael is taken by Erika from the first meeting.  Erika is so greif stricken after her mother dies, Michael is a good distraction.  Michael finds out some important things about Erika's parents.  He is told not to tell her and now this secret will jeopardize their love or will it? Why not get the book and find out.	2001-03-15
US	51831325	R3P1QBDP5D1LZA	1585710288	940271784	No Commitment Required (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Sizzling!	Seressia Glass makes her debut and is a big hit!<br />Michael Benjamin is doing a favor for his friend Jeff Maxwell by picking up his sister-friend Yvonne Mitchelson.  Michael didn't know that Yvonne was AA and beautiful beyond words.<br />Yvonne Mitchelson is the owner of several lingerie boutiques.  She is not ready for charm and utterly maleness of Michael. She is warned by a good friend that Michael is a modern-day cassanova and to stay away from him.  Yvonne just couldn't help herself.  She gets to know the real Michael.<br />This story is good and I didn't feel it was about race.  It was a good story about two people who find each other.  Each person has their tragedy and triumphs.  They fit so well.  There are secrets shared, loves won and lost.<br />Ms. Glass did a surperb job in making the characters main and secondary jump off the page.  I didn't see Michael Benjamin as a white man, but a man. Great Job Ms. Glass!	2001-03-15
US	51831325	R11FAGNYKC49U0	1585710296	367579657	Chances (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Second Chance At Love Story	Monica Jones had only one love and now he had been gone for three years.  Her loving husband Keith had died in an automobile accident. She was left with three children and the memories of their life together.  Monica said she would never get married again.  Keith would be her one and only love.<br />Devin Preston moved to New Orleans to start a new business venture.  He had his heart set on Monica from day one.  He bought the house next door to her duplex.  Before he found out that they were neighbors, he saw her a the local health club.  As fate would have it Devin's best friend from college was married to Monica's sister Vanessa.  (Vanessa's story is told in the book Fate)<br />Devin sets out to break down all the barriers Monica has put up since her husband died.  Monica is attracted to Devin, but doesn't really want to be and at times she is mad at herself because of it.<br />This book was an easy read and the secondary characters such as Devin and Monica's family members make the book believable. I was really happy when Devin asked her to tell him all about Keith.  He really and truly loved her and her children. There were a couple questions that were left unanswered.  I wonder if Ms. Starr is planning another sequel, maybe one of the twin brothers? To get to know Monica better read Fate before reading Chances.  All in all this was a good book.	2001-03-11
US	51831325	RK7YS99L3ZKBW	1565073541	74610979	The Power of a Praying Parent	Books	5	24	25	N	N	If I Could I Would Give This Book 10 stars	This book is a wonderful tool to add to your study of the word of God.  She gives you scriptures at the end of every chapter to assist you in your everyday walk on different topics concerning your child.  She talks about things that you would never think about praying for your child. Her topics from Praying for your childs mate, Praying to God to reveal your childs gifts, and teaching your children to choose the right friends. I believe she is truly anointed and I applaud the way she uses her own family as an example.<br />Stormie Omartian has a wonderful gift of writing about the power of prayer.  She has several books on prayer:  the Power of a Praying Wife, Praying Parent, Praying Woman.  I think she does an extrordinary job of focusing on the topics and prayers that you can easily memorize and even use as a reference.<br />If you have children or knows someone who does, pick up this book, it will definitely change your life.	2001-01-11
US	51831325	R18UKGQB5WNT3Z	1583141537	877744404	A Second Chance At Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Everyone Deserves a Second Chance	Toni Shaw and Charles Waters have a history.  In the book All the Right Reasons, Charles finds out that not only did Toni Shaw have his child, but she had twins.  In A Second Chance at Love, Charles is asking Toni for a Second Chance to love her.  He regrets all the things that happened in the past, (his fault or otherwise), but he knows he loves Toni with his whole heart.  Toni loves Chuck, always has.  She is having some trouble forgetting the past, but can't deny that he makes her body sing.  Chuck sets out to help her rediscover what they once had.<br />We get the chance to visit with their daughters Georgie and Bree.  We also get caught up in mystery and some suspense.  With this family there is always some drama going on somewhere.	2001-01-10
US	51831325	R25RRZLBJNC5JK	1583141545	358468315	Good Intentions (Arabesque)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Pleasure	Ivy Daniels is getting married, but just before she and her father are to walk down the aisle, she changes her mind.  Ivy wanted to do some soul searching.  Deep down in her heart she knew she didn't love Keith Jamison.  Her mother kept telling her what a great catch he is and she was lucky to be marrying him.<br />She catches the train and her wedding gown gets caught and this is where she meets Ben Stephens. Ben helped her get her dress and veil free.  Ben is an easy going kind of guy.  Ben invites Ivy to a baseball game.  When they return she finds Keith impatiently waiting for her in front of her apartment.  He feels humilated that she stood him up.  She explains that she doesn't really love him, but I guess he just didn't get it.  He still tries to pursue her.  Meanwhile, Ivy and Ben become closer.  She just wanted to be his friend and he agrees.  Ben knew that he was falling for Ivy spending so much time with her.<br />Good Intentions was an easy read.  Once I started, I wanted to see how it ended.  Ms. Wilson-Harris put a couple surprises in this book.  It made the book more intriguing and made me think, I wonder when she is going to find out about the real Keith.<br />Ivy learned that her life was her own.  She needed to do things and make decisions that made her happy.  If you want a book that is kind of easy going, this is a good one.	2001-01-01
US	51831325	R5S22WDDYPIUZ	1583141510	459508967	Private Passions (Arabesque)	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Extrordinary!	The last installment of the Hideaway Daughters and Sisters Trilogy was great.  I wasn't sure how I would word this review, but I can only tell you that if you don't read this book you will definitely miss a treat.<br />Emily Kirkland has loved Chris Delgado since she was twelve.  Chris has loved Emily just as long.  Emily was a successful journalist and Christopher was a Senator for the state of New Mexico.<br />Emily never thought in a million years she would actually marry her long time love, but as fate would have it she did.  Emily also loved her work as a journalist and was one of the best.  But, Emily is assigned to Chris' rival for the office of Governor and now they have to keep their marriage a secret.  Emily also finds herself a witness to scandal.  Christopher himself has some demons to slay.  Together they learned so of the much precious lessons this life has to offer.<br />I loved the way Ms. Alers combined all of the other characters from the Hideaway Legacy and Daughters and Sisters trilogy.  There were so many lessons in this book that it really gave me joy reading it.  The way she healed the hurt between Chris, his father and even his mother was wonderful.  It was so well written, it seemed so real. I love the way Ms. Alers includes a scripture in the front of the book.  Each scripture she chooses is inspired by God.  Ms. Alers is one of the most talented and seasoned writers in our time.  I am always excited about anything she has written.  To get a full understanding of this book you must read Hideaway, Hidden Agenda, Vows, Heaven Sent, Harvest Moon, Just Before Dawn in that order.  If not for yourself, these books make wonderful gifts.	2000-12-30
US	51831325	RBKZLG1G7YNB9	1583141731	600127665	Destiny's Song (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	GREAT JOB KIM	Destiny's song was a good story.  I really liked the way the author developed her characters.  They were so believable that they reminded me of some people I know personally.<br />Destiny was taking a much needed vacation after her ex-boyfriend was sentenced to jail.  He had stalked and mentally abused her long enough and she was so glad it was over, or so she thought.  She went to visit an old flame in Altanta.  She and Davis had been high school sweethearts.  Davis had become a sucessful systems engineer and had all types of clients.<br />Xavier decided to stop by Davis' place to go over some plans for his new recording studio.  He found Destiny singing and dancing to his music.  He actually caught her off guard and she pushed him down the stairs. As time went on Xavier and Destiny really found themselves attracted to each other.  Destiny trusted Xavier so much she told him about her crazy ex-boyfriend.<br />There was passion, conflict, and yes even the crazy ex-boyfriend.  Eventhough this is Kim's first novel, she did a great job at making her book come to life. I also enjoyed the secondary characters.  I look forward to her next novel.<br />Great Job Kim	2000-12-06
US	51831325	RI0X3LB8888N8	0449004856	68457568	The Passion (Notorious)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	So much Passion	In order to get out of an arranged marriage Lady Aurora married the dangerously handsome Nicolas Sabine.  Nicolas was an American who was thought to be very dangerous.  Nicholas asked Lady Aurora to be his wife, so that she would become the guardian of his half-sister Raven.  She agreed, because she knew Nicholas was to be executed.  What Lady Aurora didn't count on was Nicholas returning from the dead.<br />They spent one passionate night together.  Aurora had not ever experienced such passion.  Nicholas was use to a life of danger.  He lived for the moment.  He never thought he would fall in love with any woman.<br />The Passion was a good, but I must say, I liked The Seduction better. Nicole Jordan really writes well.  She is very descriptive.  I do look forward to the next book about Nicholas' cousin Lord Wycliff next year.	2000-12-05
US	51831325	RB5XKM23IAO9I	1885478178	301829720	Reckless Surrender (Indigo: Sensous Love Stories)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Cleveland Whitney!	Rina Matthews was an accountant.  She was contracted by Abagail Whitney to go over her finances.  She would have to stay at the promonient older woman's mansion.  This is were she met the handsome Cleveland Whitney.<br />Rina was asked by Cleveland to handle his finances for his upcoming campaign.  At first Rina was shocked, but agreed.  Cleveland Whitney and Rina Matthews were meant to be together.  I loved the way he treated her.  He even told her that he wanted her and would wait until she saw the truth about her boyfriend/partner.  Slowly, Rina started to fall in love with Cleveland and he with her.  She would spend as much time as she could with him.<br />I have read this book 4 times.  Each time I read this book it is just as enjoyable as the first.  You know it has to be good, it was written by Rochelle Alers.	2000-12-05
US	51831325	RB2TSKSVG165W	0312975880	939021136	Welcome to Leo's	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great	I knew Welcome to Leo's was going to be a great read because of the authors.  St. Martin's chose four of the best authors.  I love reading all of these ladies books and don't have to read the back or know what to story is about to buy their work.  They have all proven themselves to be wonderful writers with their own unique writting styles.<br />Second Chance by Rochelle Alers was a heart-warming story of a woman given a second chance at love with a sexy doctor named Scott Alexander.  Leigh meets Scott when she twists her ankle crossing a busy DC street.  Even though they are older, I could see the attraction between them.  Scott who has never been married or in love for that matter was really taken with the beautiful Ms. Leigh Walcott.  Leigh on the other hand was fighting her attraction to the handsome doctor.<br />Jae Crawford could go against the best of them when it came to singing.  She was a down home girl who didn't have any fun.  Her girlfriend Tara invited her out to a supper club called Leo's for her birthday.  Jae reluctantly accepted and their is where she met Clyde Burrell.  Clyde was handsome and all of that, but Jae was really skeptical about talking to this strange hunk.  Clyde who is actually the talent director for Leo's liked Jae from the start.  Once he talked to her, he found her to be a wonderful and warm woman he wanted to get to know better.  Their story was beautiful with the fairy tale ending.<br />Raven Anderson and Lincoln Corbain in Main Agenda by Brenda Jackson had been lovers four years ago.  When they saw each other again at Leo's, the fire was still there.  Lincoln had wondered why he let the lovely Raven get away from him after their Rendevous on Spring Break four years ago.  He promised himself that he wouldn't let her get away this time.  Raven promised herself that she wouldn't allow a man to destract her from her life goals.  Lincoln didn't make it easy on her.  Unfortunately, her sisters had the same idea.  Their goals were their main agenda.<br />Sweet Temptation was a great story about a stern Texas Ranger and a Confectionery Shop owner.  Chase Braxton has to teach a class at Howard University and was told by his superior wife to call a friend she knew there and she would bake him his favorite cookies.  He reluctantly agreed, because he knew he loved sweets.  He called the young lady, but theyn kept missing each other.  Finally, the beautiful Julia Ferrington invited Chase to dinner at Leo's.  Chase couldn't believe how beautiful Julia was.  Julia knew she wanted Chase even if it was only for a couple of weeks. The passion between the two was definitely a Sweet Temptation.<br />Each author did a wonderful job at making Leo's come to life.  It is really too bad there isn't a Leo's around.  Congratulations ladies.<br />If you have never read any of these ladies work,and I must say all of their books are good,  I would recommend the following to get you started:<br />Rochelle Alers - Hideaway (series of Cole Family) Donna Hill - Private Affair, Pieces of Dreams Brenda Jackson - Tonight &amp; Forever (series of Madaris Family) Francis Ray - Forever Yours (series of Taggart Family)their main agenda.  <br />Sweet Temptation was a great story about a stern Texas Ranger and a Confectionery Shop owner.  Chase Braxton has to teach a class at Howard University and was told by his superior wife to call a friend she knew there and she would bake him his favorite cookies.  He reluctantly agreed, because he knew he loved sweets.  He called the young lady, but theyn kept missing each other.  Finally, the beautiful Julia Ferrington invited Chase to dinner at Leo's.  Chase couldn't believe how beautiful Julia was.  Julia knew she wanted Chase even if it was only for a couple of weeks. The passion between the two was definitely a Sweet Temptation.<br />Each author did a wonderful job at making Leo's come to life.  It is really too bad there isn't a Leo's around.  Congratulations ladies.<br />If you have never read any of these ladies work,and I must say all of their books are good,  I would recommend the following to get you started:<br />Rochelle Alers - Hideaway (series of Cole Family) Donna Hill - Private Affair, Pieces of Dreams Brenda Jackson - Tonight &amp; Forever (series of Madaris Family) Francis Ray - Forever Yours (series of Taggart Family)	2000-12-04
US	51831325	R21QBYNOGEDWPD	0786001488	887410885	Scandalous (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good	Vaughn Hamilton was a political wonder.  She grew up in the political arena because her father was a judge.  All her father ever wanted was for her to make it in the big leagues in politics.  Vaughn decided to run for congresswoman.  She was running against a despicable man who would do anything to win.<br />Her parents held a fundraiser in her honor and this is where she meets Justin Montgomery.  Justin is instantly taken with Vaughn when he is introduced to her by her father Judge Hamilton.<br />Vaughn and Justin literally go through the fire.  Justin wants to keep no secrets between them, but Vaughn is determined not to let Justin get to close to her.<br />This was a wonderful story that I have already twice.  I re-read it this time to be refreshed for the Sequel Scandalous Affair which I will read next.  You can't go wrong with a book written by Donna Hill.<br />If you like this one make sure you get A Private Affair and Pieces of Dreams.	2000-12-04
US	51831325	R1D75HG7I3X1DF	1575665972	702863233	If I Could	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Great Mainstream Debut	Donna Hill is well known for her sizzling romance novels.  Well, Donna has done a wonderful job in this book, If I Could.  Regina only wanted respect and support from her family and friends, but all they did was tell her how wrong she was about everything in her life.  Only Regina herself could make her life what she wanted it to be.  Sometimes in order to grow we have to stay away from people that have a negative influence.<br />Regina's friends Toni and Vicky had major issues of their own.  They could never see their problems, but was always telling Regina what was wrong with her life.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  I know a couple of people that are just like the characters in this book.  All of us at some point in our lives think IF IF COULD.....<br />Great story Donna.	2000-11-10
US	51831325	R2QR0DI8FEBAN6	1585710245	45506830	And Then Came You (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very Good	I really enjoyed Chi and Parker.  Parker was an entreprenuer who had visions.  He always saw visions about people he was in love with.  He saw the woman he was going to marry get hit by a car two days before their wedding.  After that incident, he decided he would keep his feelings under wraps.<br />Parkers mother had an accident and ended up in the hospital.  There is where he met the beautiful Chi Addams.  She was his mother's doctor.<br />Chi was the single mother of a son with sickle cell.  Her mother was helping her with her son while she worked late.  Chi didn't want to be attracted to Parker, but it was inevitable.  Parker was persistent, sweet and very handsome.<br />There are a large number of African American with Sickle Cell traits or disease.  I have friends that have lost love ones to the disease.  My own grandfather had the trait.<br />I liked the way Chi decided to take control of her own life, instead of allowing her mother to run it.  The way she handed her son's father who had been absent all the boy's young life.<br />Parker is also in the book Whispers in the Night.  Which is a book about his sister Patricia.  Good Job Ms. Love.	2000-11-01
US	51831325	R30ETJS8P6O41V	1583141871	547789899	Holiday Of Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Love's Holiday	Collette Jenkins' career as an artist is finally taking off, but when she receives a letter that was dated over 4 months ago, her life is never the same.  She finds out that her parents aren't really her parents.  She was adopted.  She is so confused, the only thing she can do is go back to her hometown to get some answers to this mystery.<br />Going back home she runs into her old love, who just happens to live next door to her grandmother.  Collette loved Dexter Harris with all of her soul when she was younger.  He broke off the relationship and broke Collette's heart.  Finding her birth mother ended up being more of a task than either Collette and Dexter ever expected.<br />Kayla Perrin is known for writing wonderful romance stories full of mystery.  She has done a great job with this one.  She even has it set around an important holiday for African American.  I definitely thought I knew who was responsible, but everytime I thought I had it, I was wrong.  If you haven't read a Kayla Perrin book you could start with Everlasting Love and Sweet Honesty.  They are great romance &amp; mystery books. Ms. Perrin is a talented writer who just keeps getting better.	2000-10-26
US	51831325	R3PQ1B4SSW5IUG	0380813742	564878630	Always and Forever	Books	5	23	23	N	N	The Closer I Get To You!	If you are a big Beverly Jenkins fan, then you will love Always and Forever.  This books was done in a way that only Beverly Jenkins can.<br />We met Grace Atwood and Jackson Blake in the book Topaz.  I loved Grace, she didn't allow anyone to have her back against the wall.  She could go with the best of them.<br />Jackson was on the run and had been for years.  When Grace asks him to become the wagonmaster for about 35 mail-order brides, he felt this would be his opportunity to go back to his hometown and get his business straight.  What Jackson hadn't planned on was Grace lighting his fire and BOY did she.<br />Some familiar characters from Beverly's previous books are present:  Griffin (Jackson's brother) from the Taming of Jessi Rose and Mr. and Mrs. Dix and Katherine Wildhorse from Topaz.<br />As usual you get a wonderful history lesson.  If you have not read any of Ms. Jenkins books, then start with Night Song, Vivid, Indigo, Topaz, Through the Storm, and The Taming of Jessi Rose.  Make sure you have a cool glass of ice water, you will definitely need it.	2000-10-12
US	51831325	RPFU01B1JRQR2	1583141421	735334232	Love Undercover (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful Debut	Jessica Larson was a go getter.  She felt she didn't have time for a relationship.  She is stranded on an unfamiliar road in a storm.  When she is rescued and taken to a bed and breakfast not too far from where her car broke down, she meets the intriguing and handsome Cary Riley.  Jessica has never had an instant attraction to any man, but Cary was fine!<br />Cary Riley is intrigued with Jessica Larson as well.  Cary is at the inn to get a little rest.  It didn't look as if Cary would get any rest, because he is always feeling guilty about his parents death.  He decided not to allow anyone get too close to him, not even his brother and sister.  Well, he heart betrayed him, when he laid eyes on Jessica Larson.<br />This story was written with action in mind.  Tamara Sneed did an excellent job in making the characters believable.  Her story was well written.  I hope she creates a story for David and Erin. GREAT JOB!	2000-10-11
US	51831325	RUP8XER57X0YR	1565075722	258243903	The Power of A Praying Wife	Books	5	5	5	N	N	We Have Power!	I was truly blessed by this book.  Stormie Omartian really brought this message in a way that any woman, of any walk of life would be able to embrace.  This book was recommended to me by a friend.  I am so grateful that I bought it.  I have given it to family members.<br />This book talks about alot of the aspects of your husbands life.  From his sex life to his relationship with the Lord.  It is awesome the effect we have on our husbands life just by praying for him in a specific way.  I am sure if you are like me, you pray for your spouse anyway, but Stormie really helps you put things into perspective.  She even gives you prayers at the end of each chapter to help you.<br />IF YOU ARE MARRIED OR ENGAGED, PLEASE PICK UP THIS BOOK YOU WILL REFER TO IT TIME AND AGAIN EVEN AFTER YOU HAVE READ IT.<br />BLESSED BE THE NAME OF THE LORD!	2000-10-10
US	51831325	R1O8TDTOBBRLVX	1585710385	136951710	So Amazing (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Jenny Finally Found the Love She Deserved	Jenny Martin was first introduced in the Book The Glory of Love.  This book was about Jenny's friend Nine and Addison Wagner.  In that book Jenny was trying to get away from her crazy, abusive husband.  Jenny really didn't know if she was going to make it through another day, because her was not so unpredictable.  He was so abusive to her that she ended up in the hospital.  This crazy man wanted to sell Jenny's daughter Chloe.  So Amazing is Jenny after she finally got rid of Earl.<br />Because of Jenny's past, she was always paranoid.  She felt incompetent and unworthy.  She lands a job with an Architectural firm owned by Laurence Strong.  Laurence was a handsome and intelligent man, but with one problem, his temper.  Laurence was a friend of Nina and Addison Wager.  Laurence gives Jenny an opportunity in his firm and the sparks literally fly.<br />This book had alot of issues like self-esteem, forgiveness and love.  I liked the book.  Before you read this book though, please give Glory of Love, it will help you understand Jenny's way of thinking in this book.	2000-10-09
US	51831325	R5H9H7WJD9R09	158314126X	578552557	Love's Miracle (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent! Excellent! Excellent!	Laine Ransom wanted a wife and child to love.  The doctor's told him he couldn't have any children.  His family decided to give him a cruise trip as a birthday present.  On this trip, is where he met Regis Melbourne.<br />Regis owned a beauty salon in California. Her sister Sabrina gave her the tickets for the cruise.  Regis was reluctant to go on the trip, but went to please her sister.  She met Laine Ransom and fell in love.<br />Laine and Regis got married and that when all their misunderstandings started.  Regis ends up pregnant, but when she tells Laine, he doesn't believe her.  The doctor's told him he couldn't get a woman pregnant because of his love sperm count.  He and Regis had to struggle to get back to each other.  Everytime it seemed they were going to get back together, something would happen.<br />I love the Ransom family.  They are a loving family from the mother Amanda to the baby girl Elle.  Each family member is unique.  If you aren't familiar with them, you should start with the book Forever Always, Heart to Heart.  Ray Ransom is in the book Hidden Blessings, which was published right before Forever Always.  These stories are definitely keepers.  Don't miss out, get familiar with them for yourself.	2000-10-07
US	51831325	RXA7UMCDQX9UD	1583141359	213423042	Endless Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Crawford Men Are Truly Amazing!	I enjoyed Endless Love.  The story makes you look at love in a different way.  Michael Crawford gave his wife everything a woman could want, but he couldn't give her a child.  Michael thought they could adopt, but April didn't want that, so she decided the best thing for them was to divorce.<br />Terra O'Shaughssey came from a family that always depended on her when they got into trouble.  She didn't want to be anything like them, so she decided to go to college and better herself.  As a course for one of her classes, she became the building manager of an apartment building.  She leased the penthouse apartment to Michael Crawford.  As she got to know Michael and his family she was surprised at the closeness of the family.  She also couldn't help being drawn toward Michael.  He was a strong and caring man, a woman couldn't help to fall in love with.<br />Carmen Green brings the Crawford clan back to us again with a great story.  I love stories surrounding family.  In any family, especially a large one, you have all kind of people.  The Crawford family were strong and together.  This was a great story and Carmen presented the people in a way that you couldn't help but feel that you know them personally.	2000-10-07
US	51831325	R1CVLT1N3FNA7Z	1583141448	732421839	True Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Brenda!! You've Done It Again Girl!!!!	Shayla was determined to get revenge for the hurt her mother suffered.  She was a very educated and well rounded young woman.  She knew she had what it takes to destroy Chenault Electronics and TJ Electronics.  What she didn't count on was falling in love with Chenault's CEO Nicholas Chenault.<br />Nicholas was tired of the same ol' same ol'.  He had not been involved with a woman for about a year.  Nick always loved his own space.  At least that was before he met and embraced Shayla.  Shayla did things to this man that no woman has ever done.<br />This story has so much drama in it, if I continue, I might give away the real good parts.  I will say that Nicholas and Shayla went through alot to be together.  There was 2 other romances in this book that were just as enjoyable and their romances didn't detour you from the plot of this story.  You discover a family secret that should have been buried with Shayla's mother, and a few other things that will not only shock you, but shocked Shayla as well.<br />If you have ever read any of Brenda Jackson's books, you know the book is the BOMB!  Get it, read it, you won't regret it.	2000-10-05
US	51831325	R23YJ4TPQAL9HJ	1583141685	376188102	Always (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Story	Jenny and Michael have known each other for years.  Jenny had a crush on Michael when she was a teenager.  Michael was interested in Jenny too, but knew she was too young.  Fate would have it that Michael would see Jenny again after an accident her father has.  Jenny's father Rusty and Michael's father Jasper have been friends since they were young men.  Jenny could only love one man Michael which she nicknames Mickey.<br />Always is a story about a love that was inevitable.  Jenny always love Michael and ironically Michael figures out why he hadn't really been happy since he had to leave Jenny all those years ago.  This story has family secrets and deception.  A secondary story in which the author has decided to pursue is definitely present.  I don't really want to say more, it might spoil the story.  This is Ms. Savoy's second novel.  Her first Spellbound is one of my favorites.	2000-10-03
US	51831325	RR9XK8C16M63J	0446527920	604788423	Temptation	Books	5	0	0	N	N	PRAISE THE LORD!	Awesome really couldn't describe this book.<br />Jefferson and Ky were successful and in love.  They had been married for over 16 years and had one child.  Ky loved and trusted Jefferson to no end. But, we have to be very careful with the friends we have around our husbands.  Ky's friend Jasmine was a desperate woman.  She was always desregarding the Lord.  She thought she had been done wrong and that Ky always got everything.  She decides she wantes what Ky has and that's Jefferson.  I was really blessed by Jefferson and Ky.  Ky was a woman of strength.  Even when it looked like there was no hope, she came shining through.  Jefferson was lead to the Lord by his wife, then girlfriend.  He was depending on God and prayed to him for strength and assistance in his situation.<br />God definitely gets the glory in this novel.  Victoria did a wonderful job with this book.  I know this is the changed version of this book.  I am so grateful, I had the opportunity to read it and recommend it to many people I know that would be blessed by it.  You really have to put on the whole armour of God to withstand the things the devil puts in our way. If I could have rated it a 10+ I would.  It was defintely the bomb!	2000-10-02
US	51831325	R3QC8USEFSP43E	1583141405	180663696	Soulful Serenade (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Soulful!	Hillary and her best friend Cassie liked to do everything together.  They  hadn't imagined falling in love at the same time and ironically with two  men that were best friends.<br />Soulful Serenade focused on Hillary and  Brandon.  Hillary was a beautiful girl with many talents.  She worked in  the advertising department at a major airline.  She was really successful,  but always dreamed of becoming a singer.  Brandon was too good to be true  in Hillary's eyes.  He was a successful architect with his own business.  He was every girls dream.  The only problem I had with him was his  jealousy.  He was at some points ridculous.  I was proud of the way Hillary  handled his jealousy.<br />Hillary's singing career took off and that when  the really problems with she a Brandon's relationship began.  He didn't  want to share her with anyone.  I am glad at the end they got it  together.<br />This is my first novel from Linda Hudson-Smith that I have  actually read.  I do have Ice Under Fire, but haven't read it yet.  I  really liked this story it was full of love, family and unity.  It was a  very realistic story.	2000-08-07
US	51831325	R1EHYT5LC4MKV8	1583141170	137920667	First Love (Arabesque)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Beautiful!	Lena Caldwell lead a sheltered life.  At twenty-five she has yet to  experience alot of things women her aged had.  She worked hard an kept to  herself.  Lena was not confident of herself.  When Lena meet Quincy Taylor  the handsome man who was applying for a management position at her bank,  she couldn't believe it when he talked to her.<br />Quincy Taylor could have  any woman he wanted.  He met Lena and thought she was really sweet.  He  decided he wanted to get to know her, so that's what he set out to do. He  found her innocence alluring.<br />Quickly Lena and Quincy fell in love and  during that time Quincy taught Lena things she never thought she would  experience.<br />This was a story of a woman's awakening to her senuality  and love for a man.  Sweet story with some drama.  Cheryl just gave it to  us straight.	2000-08-03
US	51831325	R3HJF61L0V6BB	1583141502	439514869	The Business Of Love (Arabesque)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Business	Maya Woodson was trying to find out who killed an elderly woman who lived in the hotel she owned.  Never in a million years did she think finding the  woman's killer would reveal the truth about her own father's death.  Maya  worked with her father's partner in getting the company to go public.  Along with that she had to work with the handsome Trajan Matthews.  Maya  despised this man.<br />Trajan came up poor.  His mother loved him, but all  she had for him was love.  Trajan decided he would make something of  himself and leave the neighborhood he grew up in and never look back.  He  was a successful investor relations expert.  He thought he had everything  he needed until he met Maya.<br />After the inital denial of being attracted  to her, he gave into his feelings.  I think this book could have been  longer.  It seems something was kind of missing.  I did like George the  police officer who grew up with Trajan in the old neighborhood.	2000-08-02
US	51831325	RW4Y6XLEA9A6Q	1583141642	591848411	Admission Of Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What a Love!	Chloe a beautiful &amp; wealthy fashion model was tired of the fast life.  She yearned for something more stable.  She decides to take the land she inherited in Holtsville, South Carolina and build herself a home.  She was  very disappointed at finding her boyfriend in bed with another woman.  It  was definitely time to go.  She didn't anticipate faling hopelessly in love  with the stubborn, but fine Devon Jamison.  Devin and his twin brother  DeShawn would be building her home.<br />Devon Jamison didn't like flashy  real beautiful women.  He was instantly disgusted with Chloe.  He had her  all summed up, before he got to know her.  He had an old girlfriend that  was beautiful and ridiculous.  He felt Chloe couldn't be any different than  her.  BOY WAS HE WRONG!  Chloe was not only beautiful, but could cook and  was really a deep person.  Devon didn't want to admit his growing  attraction to her, but Chloe on the other hand did notice her attraction to  him.  She set out to get just what she wanted HIM.<br />This was a wonderful  family drama with a down home flavor.  I believe this is Niobia's first  book and she did a great job.  If you are skeptical about getting this one,  give it a try.  I liked it!	2000-08-01
US	51831325	R2ELW1AEHD5IPL	1585710172	20264575	Sin (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Interesting!	Nedra was a pastor of Mt. Zion church and knew it was hard to be a prominent woman preacher.  Her mother a pastor herself, always told her she had an image to uphold.  Nedra did a good job at keeping men at arms  length, that is until she met Sin (Sinclair Reasoner). She couldn't help  but notice how fine this man was.  She tried to deny her attraction to him.  She did a good job, but he kept popping up everywhere.  She decided she  needed a vacation and went to Lake Tahoe and who does she run into Sin.<br />Sin knew Nedra when she was volunteering during one of her summer  vacations from college.  He decided to start his import/export business in  California and who does he see in the paper Nedra.  He had always thought  she was an attractive woman.  He had come to her with two young boys who  tried to steal his car.  Sin being from the streets himself knew how  dangerous it could be for young boys.  He wanted her to find them a home.  The attraction to her was electric.<br />Sin found out that someone wanted  Nedra dead because she was driving all of the drug traffic out of the area.  He decided to follow her on vacation.  Their relationship took off from  there.<br />There is so much to this story, I don't want to give it all away.  It was very well written and had you wondering what was going to happen  next.  The secondary characters added spice to this story as well.  Crystal  did a good job with it.	2000-08-01
US	51831325	R3H6NQHGSVJVEF	0786002352	57786862	Home Fires	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The feeling of a real family is wonderful!	Terry Redding was a single mother with a sick child and no job.  She had lots of skills and that was really her problem.  Everywhere she went she was overqualified.<br />She walks into Holden-McNeil Heathcare and gets the  same answer: Your overqualifed!  Terry faints for lack of eating.  Mark  Holden then takes her home and after meeting her daughter Makeda offers her  a job as his live-in housekeeper.  Terry couldn't refuse, because she  needed the money and God help her if Makeda had to go to the hospital.  She  agrees, but Terry had to tell Mark she can't cook.  Terry's wayward  ex-husband pops up from time to time and bullies her into giving him money.<br />Mark Holden didn't believe in marriage.  His marriage to his ex-wife  Marlene ended when he found out she was having an affair and left him and  their little daughter Yvette behind.  He doesn't understand why he is so  attracted to Terry Redding.  She is not like the women he is usually  attracted to.<br />The title of this book says it all Home Fires.  Terry  taught Mark's daughter accept affection and Mark gave Terry's daughter the  attention a father would give to his daughter.  They made a happy family.  It also shows what can happen when that happy family is invaded for any  reason.  It was a good book, no drama or suspense, but just a good book.	2000-07-19
US	51831325	R1DDULXZQNXU4M	0380786605	177750826	Topaz	Books	5	0	1	N	N	My! My! My!	Katherine Love was an excellent newspaper woman.  In order to get the goods on a scam artist, she agrees to be his wife.  At least that what she made him think.  Katherine had planned to escape before the wedding.<br />Meanwhile, Katherine's theiving father Bart Love, was giving Kate to  another man, Dix Wildhorse, the Marshall.  Bart owed Dix for stealing cows  and selling them to the government.  But in order to give his daughters  hand in marriage, they had to rescue her from the clutches of the scam  artist Rupert Samuels.<br />After meeting Mr. Wildhorse, Kate didn't know  which one was worse, Dix or Samuels.  Samuels promised to put her in a  sanitarium after the wedding, so she decided to go with Dix.<br />This is  where the adventure begins.  This story had alot of different feelings:  Happiness, sadness, anticipation, gratitude and courage.<br />I loved the way  Katherine showed her courage in every situation presented to her.  Her  geniune feeling for her husband showing.<br />Dix never in his life showed  an emotion such as love to any woman.  I would really proud of him, the way  he treated Katherine.You could tell Dix loved her.<br />As always in Beverly  Jenkins stories you get a love story, but also you get a wonderful black  history lesson.  I thought Indigo was my favorite, but Topaz just knocked  it to #2.  All of Ms. Jenkins books are definitely something you will  treasure for a lifetime.	2000-07-17
US	51831325	RZPP88DQTXC0	1583141138	161989411	Island Magic (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a Story!	Cassandra Mosley knew what she wanted out of life.  She loved her career as chef and co-owner of a Bed &amp; Breakfast in her hometown of Oakland, CA.  She also knew that she wanted to be the wife of Gordan Kramer.  She  wanted to share her life and bear his children.<br />Gordan loved Cassy (as  she is called throughout the book), but he didn't want to get married  again.  His first marriage ended in disaster.  When one day Cassy walks out  on him and doesn't turn back, he crumbles.<br />We are first introduced to  Gordan and met Cassandra in the anthology Mama's Pearl written in 1996.  Island Magic is Cassandra's story.  This book was interesting.  I was  wondering how could a man love a woman as much as Gordan seemed to love  Cassandra and not want to marry her.<br />Sometimes it takes uncontrollable  circumstances to bring people together.<br />It was suggested to me by a  very informative and credible African-American Book reviewer to read Mama's  Pearl from the Mother's Love Anthology first.<br />I am glad I took her  advice.  If you haven't read Mama's Pearl, please do.  You will get to know  Cassandra's personality then and understand it now.<br />Great job Ms. Ford!	2000-07-11
US	51831325	R2W5T350L87OLC	0786002808	146395064	Affair of the Heart (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great Hometown Loving	Cara Lynn Garrett has fell in love with a man she has only know for a  couple days.  She tries to forget about him, but she cannot.  She meets  Jordan Davidson, her father's neighbor in the small town of Shelbyville,  Kentucky where she grew up.  Cara Lynn's thoughts were always on this  stud.<br />Jordan Davidson was a simple man that had a successful construction  company.  He meets Cara Lynn when she comes to check out a stray dog he had  in his home.  He finds himself attracted to this young woman after only  knowing her for a short time.<br />Each had issues they needed to resolve and  a first it didn't seem like they were going to come together.  They had  alot of interference from a man named Evan Fitzgerald, who wanted Cara Lynn  for himself.<br />The secondary characters and romances in this story were  really good and made the book come together.  It was a well written book,  but what would you expect from Ms. Sims.	2000-07-08
US	51831325	R1IOBLTGXXWEEL	1583141480	30344612	Snowbound With Love (Arabesque)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great First Novel	Charolette Thompson was a photojournalist finishing an assignment.  She  leaves the assignment in a snow storm and has a car accident.  She ended up  in the driveway of a stranger.  He rescues her and takes her in the  security of his home.  Charolette's memory is gone.  He promises to help  her restore her memory and get her id out of her car after the snow crew  starts its clean up and dig her car out.<br />Bits and pieces of her memory  returns and she learns that the handsome stranger is not a stranger at  all.<br />Alice Wootson did a wonderful job with this her first novel.  I  found the story to be refreshing and sensual.  The hero could have been  knocked out a couple of times because he wouldn't listen.  Overall, the  book was good.	2000-07-07
US	51831325	RRCIUK7G24NNT	1583141146	649551422	Family Ties (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent!	McKenzie Ashford vows to repay the man responsible for her mother's death.  She has dedicated her life to AIDS medical research.  McKenzie is a  respected Medical Research Doctor.  She takes a job at Chandler in  California.  Marc Chandler the CEO is the target of her obession to get  revenge.  Only when McKenzie gets to know Marc, he is not at all the man  she thought he was.<br />Marc Chandler has been hurt by the women in his life.  He vows to never trust a woman again.  He mets Dr. McKenzie Ashford and  they start a beautiful friendship.  Marc finds himself in love with her.  He tries to deny it, but he also finds he can't stay away from the  beautiful doctor.<br />I don't want to write too much in this review, because  I want you to get the full effect of the story.  Jacquelin Thomas really  knows how to write a story involving family.  She gives you intimiate  details about the families personalities and they faults.<br />Don't miss out  on a winner.  Get the book!	2000-07-07
US	51831325	R1MW545J9T2CZ6	1885478410	826489440	Rooms of the Heart (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Excellent book!	This is book demonstrates what people do to get what they want. Tempest Grandmother thought she knew what was best for her, but in the end all she did was hurt her. I'm glad Tempest husband got just what he deserved. Lot's  of drama. Congratulations Ms. Hill!	2000-07-06
US	51831325	R1Z99W2W5V6FQ1	078600276X	827506557	Home Sweet Home (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Story	Rochelle Alers is the bomb. Everything she writes is good. You don't even have to read the bad of the book you know automatically that it's good. There were alot of lessons in this book. Also it really explored Catering  Business, trust, love, adoption and friendship.	2000-07-06
US	51831325	R2X0ANLMRIMK4O	0312974973	147873925	Della's House of Style	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Great Follow-Up to Rosies	Four very talented and well know authors come to us again in the follow-up to Rosie's Curl &amp; Weave.<br />Della's House of Style was a great treat.  The four stories were well written.<br />Donna Hill's It Could Happen to You  was excellent.  I really liked Della finding a Love of Her Own.  I was glad  to see a soft side to the hero in this story.  Della just seemed to bring  out the best in him.  Ms. Hill is a thorough writer and gave us a wonderful  story.<br />Francis Ray's story A Matter of Trust was warm and very sincere.  I liked the characters of Hope and Sebastian.  Hope's son and landlord  really rounded out the story.<br />Rochelle Alers' story Sweet Surrender was  touching.  Maria Parker a very young widow was afraid to love.  She meets  Mr. Cameron King, a man that looks tough on the outside, but is a sweet  person once you get to know him.<br />Felicia Mason's story Truly, Honestly  was great also.  I think it shows you don't always choose who you fall in  love with, sometimes it just happens.  No matter where you come from and  what you do in life, love should be the most important.<br />Each story held  its own, but together they made a wonderful novel all surrounding Della's  House of Style.  Great job ladies!	2000-07-04
US	51831325	R38WQUX1OAGW0N	1583141154	294866111	Images of Ecstasy	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Ecstacy When You Lay Down Next To Me!	Shay Hilton had made a name for herself.  A very accomplished magazine editor.  She had started her magazine Love and Relationships.  It was a very informative paper, but the very thing she always wrote about was  missing from her life.<br />Shay had suffered the ulitmate betrayal by her  fiance.  She vowed never to love another man again.<br />Braxton was the  District Attorney and very interested in Shay Hilton.  Ironically he meets  her the night her ex-fiance is murdered.<br />This book was interesting.  The mystery of who done it was intense.  As soon as I thought I had it  figured out, I found out I was wrong.<br />The relationship between the hero  and heroine was electric to say the least.  The secondary characters really  added to the book.  I would love to see what happened to Shay's brother and  her best friend.  Maybe Ms. Bussey will think about a sequel.	2000-06-28
US	51831325	R1YY6QTAUBVFR5	0786005041	895971178	Remembrance (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mysterious	Remembrance opens as Charlie Canfield a popular radio host is being stalked.  This person has really been getting on her nerves.  She decides to attend her Class Reunion.  She had two reasons to be hesistant to attend  the reunion though (1) Tyrek Conners, her ex-husband and (2) Devin Spencer,  the love of her life and the man that broke her heart.<br />Devin Spencer  always loved Charlie Canfield.  He was really confused when he found out  that Charlie had married his ex-best friend Tyrek Conners.  He couldn't  understand why Charlie never answered any of his letters or returned his  phone calls.<br />I don't think Charlie ever stopped loving Devin.  She is  reaquanited with him on the cruise ship for their class reunion.<br />This  book was really good.  I wanted to read it, because Ms. Gamble is coming  out with a sequel.  I wanted to get aquainted with the characters.  This  was her first novel.  She did a good job with the mystery.  I started to  think of one person who could be the stalker and in the next couple of  pages, found I was wrong.  Be sure you read this one before the sequel.  I  have to recommend Eden's Dream and Illusions of Love.	2000-06-27
US	51831325	R2XSBB4PQCY153	188547847X	137479041	Dark Embrace (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good - - But Left Me Hanging	Alexandra St. Clair was in love with her college sweetheart Christopher Mason.  One day Christopher decides they need a vacation, he makes plans for them to have a wonderful ski weekend.  Alexandra's father didn't like  Christopher at all and told them both.  During their weekend Alexandra had  a tragic accident.  From that point her father tries to destroy her  relationship with Christopher.<br />Alex's father made me angry.  He could  plainly see that his daughter was hurt by the breakup.  He was a selfish  man and had secrets of his own.<br />I was disappointed with this book because  some of the questions were not answered.  It was kind of like a movie  cliffhanger with no sequel. For example, once Alexandra found out her  father sabatoged her relationship with Christopher, she never confronts  him.  Now I am wondering if Ms. Wilson-Harris created a sequel to answer  these questions.	2000-06-21
US	51831325	R2SXALECWN37HB	0830718648	604206952	Women of Destiny: Releasing You to Fulfill God's Call in Your Life and in the Church	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Thoroughly Written	I loved this book.  It has been my desire to find out what my destiny in this life is.  This book was a wonderful start as it gave insight on what a woman's destiny.<br />Cindy Jacobs really lays things out in clear view for  you to grasp and understand.  It is biblically based.  She also has her own  personal testimonies interwoven in this book.<br />This book was a gift from  my sister.  I will cherish it always.  If you are wondering what to do or  how to go about finding out what your destiny is, get this book.  It has  truly blessed me.	2000-06-20
US	51831325	R1FW7GRTDHM5MZ	0380776588	536932460	Night Song	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Chase Jefferson Where Are You!	Chase Jefferson was not the marrying kind.  He decides to pursue a lovely school teacher Cara Lee Henson.  Chase was part of the Tenth soldiers.  Cara Lee didn't have a clue what it was like to be kiseed, really kissed by  a man.  Chase showed her how senuous she could be.<br />Some of the towns  people were jealous of Cara Lee.  They were trying to figure out why Chase  liked her.<br />This book had a lot of drama.  Chase was very protective  of Cara Lee.  He was a little stubborn too.  He would always tell her that  he was not the marrying kind.  But continued to show her affection, like  she was a rare jewel.<br />I have just recently read three of Beverly Jenkins  books, Indigo, Through the Storm and Night Song.  I really can't say which  is my favorites.  They are all so wonderful.	2000-06-13
US	51831325	R3CJWNV0DGEK3A	0380786583	49175113	Indigo	Books	5	7	7	N	N	What a History Lesson	Hester Wyatt loved helping slaves become free.  She would allow them to stay below her home.  She came across a man that was seriously injured.  She later found out that he was the Black Daniel.  A man who also helped  the cause for slaves.<br />Galen Vachon was healed by a woman with hands of  Indigo.  He came to really care for Hester who he affectionately named  Indigo.  He wanted to share everything with her.  Hester didn't want all  the expensive things Galen was use to.  She was always overcome when he  gave her expensive gifts.<br />Slaves had a very hard time and when the people  ended up in a territory where they were free, there were still people who  wanted to put them back into slavery.<br />Ms. Jenkins gives a wonderful  history lesson in this book, just as she does in all of her books.  When  you are done reading her novels, you come away with a wonderful love story  as well as a great lesson in Black History.	2000-06-13
US	51831325	R3JIWX8YL5WOBD	0380785617	328917018	Heart Breaker	Books	5	17	19	N	N	What a Heartbreaker	Sloan McCord was reall possessed with his dead wife.  But his wife who was a Cheyenne Indian left him to raise a little girl.  Sloan needed a mother for his daughter and a wife.  He really didn't want to love her, but have  her for looks and for to raise his young daughter.  What he got was not  what he figured.<br />He meets Heather Ashford a once well to do young woman  with schooling and social skills.  Heather now in debt from her father's  careless gambling receives a letter from a dear friend that seems to have a  solution to her problem.  She accepts the offer from Sloan to become his  wife and in return he pays her debts.<br />The electricity between these two  are so awesome.  Sloan denies she effects him in any way.  Heather falls  hopelessly in love with Sloan.<br />Sloan really made me angry with the way  he was treating Heather. I found myself talking to the book.  He was  ridiculous with his comparisons of her and his dead wife.<br />My first Nicole  Jordan novel was The Seduction.  After reading it, I decided to find all of  her books.  She is a wonderful writer that seems to bring her characters to  life.	2000-06-13
US	51831325	R3FDSVGWCKBF5G	1585710091	782559751	All I Ask (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	1	0	1	N	N	I Didn't really understand the plot.	I didn't see the plot in this story.  The relationship between the main characters were really lopsided and didn't really get into the real reasons why the heroine treated the hero they way she did.<br />I hope the next book  Ms. Keaton writes will be better.	2000-06-05
US	51831325	R2RK04LDAN95TO	0449004848	814349004	The Seduction (Notorious)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	OH MY GOD!	Damien Sinclair was something else.  He could use a woman for his own desires and then at the drop of a hat just get rid of her.  He continued to do that all of his adult life, that is until he met Lady Vanessa Wyndham.<br />Vanessa wanted to repay adebt for her brother Aubrey.  Aubrey somehow  was responsible for Lord Sinclair's sister's accident.  Vanessa went to  Lord Sinclair to tell him that he would repay her brother's debt.  She even  suggested that she could be his sister's companion.  Well of course, Damien  with his erotic thoughts decided he would make her his mistress.<br />This  book was so erotic, the pages burned my hand.  This book haphazardly caught  my eye, while I was looking for something else.  Nicole Jordan is a  wonderful writer.  The only historical romances I've ever read were by  Beverly Jenkins.  I even ordered Nicole's book called Heartbreaker.  Take a  bow Ms. Jordan, you deserve it.	2000-06-05
US	51831325	R206BS89B06VGV	0786004436	350530988	The Nicest Guy in America (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Reggie gets his own love	Kimberla Washington was assigned to find the perfect man and she was not happy about it.  She doesn't have a good opinion of men at this time.  What she didn't know was he was just around the corner.<br />Reggie Stevens is  chosen as the Nicest Guy In America and Kimberla has to go out on a date  with him.  Reggie is a man that is ready to settle down and doesn't want to  play games any more.  We first meet Reggie in Bands of Gold.  He is in love  with Christina Marshall and eventhough she is pregnant with another man's  baby he wanted to marry her.  Well, Christina ended up marrying the babies  father and Reggie is left in the cold.<br />This was a funny story.  I loved  the secondary characters.  To get to know Reggie better, read Bands of Gold  first then this book.	2000-06-01
US	51831325	R7A6C578BOC3X	1583141073	992674372	Never Too Late For Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Story!	This book was a wonderful book.  I enjoyed it so much.  Tiffany and Jason were definitely made for each other.<br />This book started out with alot of sensuality and starting over so it seemed.  Then the drama started.  This  book got to be so good, that you couldn't wait to see what would happen  next.<br />This family really had alot of issues that needed to be resolved.  It really shows that you have to face your past and not just ignore it.  Tiffany had to try to be strong for her children and mostly for herself.<br />Jason Cates was a wonderful seasoned man.  I liked him alot.  He had  some unresolved issues of his own.  I am glad they found each other.<br />If  you have not read this book, please do, but first pick up Hart's Desire.  You will get a glimpse of Tiffany, her children and Jason. You won't regret  it.	2000-06-01
US	51831325	RHPQ2CQJ8KLUV	0373240856	365346950	Family Wedding (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Friendship Turns Into an Eternal Love	Patsy is shocked when her life-long frined Kenny asks her to marry him for the sake of his daughter.  Kenny's wife died several years earlier and his daughter wanted a mommy like her other friends.<br />Patsy had been hurt in a previous marriage, but she always loved Kenny.  Kenny didn't realize how  precious Patsy had been to him.  He was fighting the feelings he still had  for his dead wife and the ones he had for Patsy.<br />This was a warm story  of love and family.  Ms. Benson always writes a good story no matter the  plot.	2000-06-01
US	51831325	R2VKEXVCHSXN9F	0373520867	239178089	Bachelorette Blues (Silhouette Yours Truly)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Things Never Come Out The Way We Plan It.	Shayna Gunther made a list of what she wanted in a man. All those traits were in Max Winston, although she would ignore him.<br />Max had other plans for Shayna. He wanted her. I thought Max was really a tender fellow. It always seemed he was rescuing Shayna from one dramatic event or another.<br />Shayna was a little too wishy washy for me. I was glad she got herself together.<br />Ms. Amos is really an excellent writer. I loved her other books Into the Night, True Blue, Promise Me, and Private Lies.	2000-06-01
US	51831325	R4WIMMLOQDLG4	156229122X	485889740	The Planted Seed: The Immutable Laws of Sowing and Reaping	Books	5	18	19	N	N	You Can't Beat God Giving	Juanita Bynum is a truly anointed prophetess sent by God.  I have seen her in person and she eletrifies the audience with her presence.  The planted seed was a wonderful book.  It backs up what the bible tell us about  giving.  Give and it shall be given unto you.  The principals are so  simple.  If you think about it, what if God said give me 90% and you take  10%, we really would have a hard time.  All we need to do it honour God  with our substance, and He will keep His promise to us.  The more you give  the more He'll give to you, just keep on giving because it is really true,  that you can't beat God giving, No matter how you try.  I'm a witness to  this principal.  Get the book and meditate on it.	2000-05-30
US	51831325	RJ8CX4L2VPWLS	0786000732	925117728	No Ordinary Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Ray ! Ray! Ray!	Georgette Willis finally realized it was time to give up on the two timing boyfriend she has had forever.  The bad part about the whole situation is that he was cheating on her with a woman she utterly despised.<br />Ray  Fuschee meets Georgette on a ski trip in Denver. He is captivated by her  beauty and decides that he wants to get to know her a little better.  Eventhough she lives in Philly and he in Chicago makes plans to see her and  for her to visit him.<br />This was a great book with a lot of drama.  Talk  about baby momma drama.  Monique is an excellent writer.  Get the book, I  don't want to spoil all the drama.	2000-05-25
US	51831325	R1BM64TP0MSG61	0786005327	344349773	Heart's Desire (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Talk about family drama	Kara Smith got the shock of her life and on her mother's death bed at that.  Her father was not really dead, but a famous congressman.  All Kara could feel for her father was anger.  He wanted her mother to get rid of  her.  Her mother loved this man to death.  Kara decided she would make him  pay for her mother's pain.<br />Kara met Brent Stevens.  Her father's right  hand man.  Brent was also engaged to Kara's half sister Jenny.<br />Jenny  turned out to be kind of like a fatal attraction when it came to Brent.<br />Kara's half brother Dante, was drooling all over her when they met.  He  had his problems too, with women.<br />Kara's stepmother Tiffany, was a drunk.  But, after I continued to read their story, I see how she was just trying  to drown her sorrows.<br />Brent and Kara fell in love unexpectedly and that  love was truly tested.<br />This was a wonderful story by Ms. Jackson.  I  wanted to re-read this story right before I picked up Tiffany's story Never  Too Late For Love.	2000-05-25
US	51831325	R140SWCOQIDVN0	0786003952	825266789	Soul Deep (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	EXCELLENT!	Yvonne Taylor never thought she would fall in love again after the betrayal of her fiancee Desmond.<br />She decided to go to LA to start a new life.  Her cousin Adrianne seemed to be living the life as an accountant,  or so Yvonne thought.<br />Yvonne unexpectantly met the handsome Sean Germaine  on her flight to LA.  She kept telling herself not to let her guard down  regarding this hunk of a man.  To say the least Sean got under her skin.  Yvonne and Sean were drawn to each other.<br />Yvonne's cousin Adrianne was  definitely another story.  I thought Soul Deep was a excellent book.  It  was definitely power packed and had alot of intrigue.  I admire Ms. Gilmore  and love the way she writes.  This was a wonderful story about making your  dreams come true.  Learning to move on after a devasting life experience is  definitely explored in this book.	2000-05-24
US	51831325	RFB0UU2O64I6X	1585710164	940593130	Bound By Love (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Love Never Ending	Lesley Wells-Evans was a brillant fashion designer.  She was deeply in love with Darren Taylor.  A fashion executive.  One dreadful day some designs were stolen from Darren's company and all the evidence pointed to  Lesley as the person who did it.<br />Lesley tried to explain that she didn't  do it.  Darren didn't believe her.  Lesley left the state and tried to  start her life over.<br />Darren hunted her down.  He wanted revenge.  What he  had not counted on was finding out he had a daughter.  He was then  determined to have Lesley and their little girl.<br />I enjoyed Bound By Love.  I have read all of Ms. Clark's books.  I do think the plot of who stole  the designs could have been explored a little further.  The reason the  person set Lesley up in the first place could have been explored to make  the book even more powerful. Lesley and Darren's relationship was  wonderful. It would be nice to see some of the secondary characters have a  book of their own. All in All it was a good book.	2000-05-23
US	51831325	R1QFACJ6OWUX5Y	0786005602	965204338	Follow Your Heart (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	What a Wonderful Love Story	Meeko Moore knew she had talent.  She just wanted everyone to treat her like she was just plain Tammi in her home town.  She would not compromise her belief and sing songs that go against it.<br />Tamika decides to go home  and visit the place where she grew up.  She found much more.  Rev. Tyler  Barnett.<br />Tyler was a beautiful person inside and out.  He was mesmerized  with Tamika at there first meeting in her mother's kitchen.  He decided he  would pursue her and see where things go.<br />I really liked this book.  It  was very down to earth and believable.  When you think about decisions that  you have to make in your own life.  If you just follow your heart, you  usually make the right decision.  Get the book!	2000-05-22
US	51831325	R27XQ7MXP9ZRHM	1583140115	147487007	Sweet Honesty (Arabesque)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good	Derrick Lawson was an excellent cop for the Chicago PD.  He took his job very seriously. We first met him in Everlasting Love. The story of Whitney and Javar Jordan.<br />When he was assigned to find Samona Gray, who was  wanted in connection of a murder in a jewelry store, he got a little more  than he bargained for.<br />Derrick was always focused on his assignment.  Getting to know Samona better, made feelings surface he had not felt  before.<br />Samona was not good at love.  She always seemed to choose the  wrong men. Her current boyfriend Roger, had her running from the law.  He  took her to an upscale jewelry store.  Samona thinking he was going to buy  her a gift.  Roger had another plan, to rob it.  One of the shop owners is  killed and now Samona is wanted in connection to that murder.<br />Samona  meets Derrick and their relationship starts normally and escalates into  something wonderful.  Although they had some obstacles that made it  together.<br />Good book.	2000-05-15
US	51831325	R73DTMCLKHX5M	1583141049	601174257	Illusions Of Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What a wonderful story	Illusions of Love was a great mystery.  I really liked the love between Creed and Skye.  I think Jed (Creed's father) added a little twist to the story.  It would be nice to know why he left his family and became a bum of  sorts.<br />You think you know who done it and then something else happens and  your wrong.<br />This is the best novel Ms. Marcia has written.  I also liked  her novella in Island Magic.	2000-05-11
US	51831325	R1C0FU8X52OBC7	0786004975	407986869	Sweet Surrender (Arabesque)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good Story	I liked Hayden Campbell and her desire to help her father get the best possible medical care.  When she first agreed to marry a man she hardly knew, I thought she was kind of crazy.<br />Cannon Factor was a very  intelligent man with a goal to help the public better themselves.  Someone  was trying to ruin his reputation.  He thought by marrying Hayden that  would calm some of the rumors down.  He didn't expect to fall in love with  this fiesty young woman.<br />Hayden complimented Cannon very well.  She was  head strong and outgoing.  Someone a person in public office would need by  their side.  I am glad they fell in love and pursued it.	2000-05-10
US	51831325	RJLGEY816M5K3	0786003278	383236824	Now or Never (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I loved this book	I thought Now or Never was a touching love story.  Adam Webster had lost his mother 4 months ago.  He was visiting her grave one rainy day.  There at the cemetery he met the beautiful Mia Jacobs.  She was greiving and Adam  didn't know what to do, but comfort her.<br />Mia had lost her daughter and  her ex-husband was being investigated for her death.  She didn't want to  have anything to do with Adam.  She tried to fight her attraction to him.  Adam was persistent to making her a part of his life.<br />This was an  excellent story and I liked the secondary characters and it would really be  an excellent follow-up story.  This was the first book by Ms. Green and I  think she did a wonderful job.	2000-05-08
US	51831325	R1U8P56N8N4TM6	1583141065	43046138	A Very Special Love: The Key To My Heart\A Mother's Love\Maternal Instincts (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent!	A Very Special Love was a wonderful book.<br />All three stories were good, but I really liked Ms. Sims story the most.  It was so clearly written that you couldn't help but know the families in the story.  I  loved the way the characters were drawn to each other.<br />Each and every  time I sit down to read a book, I always try to imagine myself there.  I  know the book is excellent when I've finished the book and feel that I have  been on a wonderful journey.<br />Get this book and you will be surprised by  the passion these ladies have put in it.	2000-05-01
US	51831325	R2TSGN142IOZBA	1585710040	749081183	Picture Perfect (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What a Wonderful Love Story	This book had so many issues, but Ms. Carter wove them together very well.  The issue of Sickle Cell was the most profound.  There are so many African Americans with this disease.  I liked the way they explained exactly what  the disease does to your body.<br />I loved the little girl Sandy.  It seems  she really loved her mother, eventhough she was not what we could say a  &quot;good one&quot;.  I also enjoyed Cassie and her friend.  Her friend  learned a good lesson about beauty being in the eye of the beholder.<br />This  was a wonderful love story, that I think you will enjoy.	2000-05-01
US	51831325	RWUVH8IPO13MO	1583141057	444345355	Secrets Of The Heart (Arabesque)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Second Chance Story	When I first started reading this story, I thought what is the big secret.<br />I really loved the way Drew treated Amanda.  He was so patient and his ability to be in tuned with her.<br />Amanda had a pretty hard life.  After reading further, I liked the way she brought together the issues together.  I received all the answers to the question I had.<br />Drew's mother was such  a trip.  She really had no real reason to dislike Amanda.<br />I think this is  a good story and worth reading.	2000-04-27
US	51831325	R2D0X0T0LPDTDO	1583141030	115620801	Just Before Dawn (Arabesque)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	What Did You Expect!	Just Before Dawn was a wonderful love story.  Sara Sterling really didn't think a man could make her desire him.  Salem Lassiter proved her wrong.  Sara coming home for some much needed rest was the start.  She was  mesmerized with him.  I was too(smile). Sara really knew how to handle  herself in and out of the court room.  I loved her relationship with her  mother.  Kind of reminded me of the relationship my sister and I have with  our mother.<br />I loved this story.  Salem Lassiter was the BOMB!  His  senuousness and his abiiity to know her emotions, just made him awesome.  He was so attentive, he reminded me so much of Sara's father Matthew.<br />I  was so into their relationship, that the other things that happened in the  story just fell into place.  I am really excited about Emily and Chris's  story.  I can see the relationship forming and Chris is probably going to  play hard to get, but Emily (if she is like her father) will definitely get  her man. Rochelle has done it again.	2000-04-26
US	51831325	RAQ3VO5SKMJYI	034543255X	845640752	Again, My Love	Books	5	3	3	N	N	What a Wonderful Story	Marcia Robertson thought she left her past behind her.  She was living with a handsome rising actor Jackson Reid.  Her own acting career was trying to go somewhere.<br />One day she receives a letter from her  ex-fiance' Gavin Williams.  He wants to meet with her.  Marcia's world  starts to spin.  She doesn't want to see him, until she finds out that  Jackson had been having an affair.  She is now faced with the fact that he  probably had more than one, Marcia seeks the arms of Gavin.<br />Years before,  Gavin gave Marcia an ultimatium.  It was either him or her career.  She  chose her career.  It took her a while to get over the hurt he caused.  Now  here he comes again.  Gavin wanted Marcia and knew he made a mistake when  he let her go some year before.<br />Reading this story, I rejoiced and became  sad.  This is a wonderful second chance story.  This is a good first novel  for Ms. Perrin.  I have read all of her other books, and I have found that  they all are just as good.	2000-04-26
US	51831325	R16HLHINC6CHBT	0345432568	67846635	Passion	Books	5	5	6	N	N	EXCELLENT	Passion was a very sensual book.  It grabs you from page 1.<br />Passion Adams came from the streets.  She had a good heart and was trying to get money to get off the streets.  She was befriended by a preachers wife.  CeCe wanted Passion to be the suragate mother to the child she couldn't  bear.  Passion agreed, but before CeCe could tell her husband the Reverend  Jourdan Watters she is murdered.<br />Jourdan Watters was attracted to Passion  when he first laid eyes on her during a Sunday Morning church service.  He  knew she was temptation, but really couldn't digest that she was carrying  his child.<br />Passion fell in love with Jourdan and wanted him to know it.  Passion was befriended by a young woman who belonged to Jourdan's church.  She ironically worked for the DA's office who was investigating CeCe's  murder.<br />This story had a mixture of mystery, suspense and laughter.  You will get a few surprises.  Get the book you won't regret it.	2000-04-26
US	51831325	R14UYR6XOEOW4R	0786005580	53294742	Commitments (Arabesque)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Book	Fox Giovanni worked entirely too hard.  She had no personal life.  She just tried to forget how tired she was of being alone, that she worked herself almost to death.<br />After suffering a heart attack at a luncheon in  her honor, she decides to visit her foster mother in a small dismal town.  She was ordered by her doctor to get some rest.  What she didn't count on  was her foster mother's nephew Van.<br />Van was once married to a city girl.  After that distaster he had enough.  When he first meets Fox, he believes  she is just trying to use his aunt like everyone else.<br />They get to know  each other and sparks fly.  I thought this book was good and I really liked  the aunt Willow's character. Carmen Green is a good writer and this book is  definitely worth checking out.	2000-04-19
US	51831325	R1QFQ9W9AW0BFT	0786003979	145577944	Mama Dear (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Mother's Day Stories	Mama Dear is a collaboration of wonderful Mother's Day stories written by some very talented writers.  All the stories had some type of medical background.<br />Second Chance at Love by Cheryl Faye was excellent.  It  actually reminded me of my family.  Although my sister and I are adults, my  father died and we are all for our mother finding a special person to share  the rest of her life with.<br />My Mother's Child by Monique Gilmore was  good.  Mother's always want what is best for their child.  Geraldine's  daughter Kasey chose the wrong man to fall in love with.  Their were some  surprises also in this story.<br />Never Say Never by Angela Winters was  enchanting.  I really liked Damon Jordan, the young doctor.  He was so  compassionate and helped Nicole find love again after losing her husban in  a swimming accident.<br />These were really heartwarming stories.  A great  read.	2000-04-13
US	51831325	R32X1N7L4ZC9QK	1583141006	202803461	Destiny (Arabesque)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Family Secrets	Josephine Brennon had a really hard childhood.  She never felt loved after her mother died and she went to live with her Aunt Cordelia.  That is until she met a drifter looking for work and into her life comes Hannibal Ray.<br />Hannibal had his own ghosts to slay.  He never really had anything of  material value and didn't care.  He started thinking about that those  things when he started to get to know Josephine. Aunt Cordelia was a trip.  When I started reading this book, I said to myself &quot;This woman has a  real problem.&quot;  I was right and in the book it reveals all of  Cordelia's past. Destiny, which is the name of a town in Oklahoma was full  of secrets and the people who kept them.<br />This is my first romance written  by Shelby Lewis.  I thought the book could have been a little longer, but  was really good.	2000-04-04
US	51831325	R1VS2P9UU7Z701	1583140980	200645694	Swept Away (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	What an Incredible Story	Veronica &amp; Schyler were meant to be together.  I thought it was really funny that before Veronica's mother Ester died, she told her to find her father and that she was sorry.  Because of Veronica's resources, she found him.  When she went to confront him, she got the surprise of her life.  Schyler opened her father's front door.  This was the beginning of alot of  confusion for her.<br />Schyler was also a person that liked helping people.  He was driven to make sure childrent that were in foster care were treated  with care from those foster parents.  He felted blessed to be Richard  Henderson's son.  He didn't think in a million years that Richard's long  lost daughter was Veronica Overton (the woman he couldn't get out of his  head).<br />I loved all the characters in this book.  I especially liked Jenny  the homeless woman that was actually the Seamtress Extraordinare.<br />Ms.  Forester always brings books to us that not only are senuous, but have  wonderful meanings about family, trust and love.	2000-04-03
US	51831325	R1I9DT026NC9DH	0786000643	195020276	Happily Ever After (Arabesque)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Good Read	Lauren Taylor and Cal Samuels were young lovers.  Cal's grandfather didn't think Lauren was good enough for Cal, so he drove her away.  Lauren and Cal hadn't been married long, but she couldn't take anymore of Cal's  grandfathers unkindness.<br />Lauren had little boy and five years later, the  older Samuels dies and as a part of his will he leaves almost everything to  the young boy.  The ironic thing is that Lauren and Cal has to get married  and stay married for a year in order for the child to collect his  inheritance. Good book.  I don't think Lauren ever stopped loving Cal.	2000-03-28
US	51831325	R7M3EBTLUIGQ6	1885478348	856246014	Pride and Joi (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	What a Wonderful Story	This book was really good.  I loved Joe Pride.  He was just an ordinary guy with extrordinary love to give.  He loved Joi unconditionally.<br />Joi Martin was afraid to really love someone, because she thought they would  die.  She figured if she married well, the money would be enough.  That was  until she met Joe Pride.  Joe showed her what life could be like with a  someone who loved her wholeheartedly. Joi's mother didn't think Pride was  good enough for her daughter.  She always made Joi think that marrying well  would be better for her.  OH, how wrong she was.  You need to read this  book to get the full effect.  I guarantee, you won't put it down.	2000-03-28
US	51831325	R22XQN2HSLQMKN	1583140875	479084569	Body And Soul (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Book	I really enjoyed this book.  We all know Felicia Mason is an excellent writer.  This book just confirms our belief.<br />Ms. Toinette Blue was an exceptional woman.  She had been through the storm and rain after her  husband left.  She came through and still made something of herself and  helped her children through college.  Robinson Mayview was attracted to  Toinette when he met her the first time in the book &quot;For the Love of  You&quot;.  He knew this was the woman for him.  Convincing Toinette was a  horse of a different color.  There were alot of people to consider in  trying to win Toinette's affections.  Her son Russell, Jr. was a trip.  I  was glad Robinson beat the daylights out of him.  There were alot of  issues in this book.  Some were drug addiction, stealing, homeless woman,  and abandonment. If you have not read this book, it is time you did.  You  won't be sorry.	2000-03-27
US	51831325	RUHFXFRLQM9SP	0786006048	729454733	A Resolution of Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What Your Heart Knows	Daryl knew in her heart that Sheldon Turner would be herhusband and her forever love when she met him at a New Year'sCelebration.  Her two friends Audrey and Margo thought differently. Sheldon is an ex-basketball star and is smooth with the ladies.  He really lusts after Daryl not realizing he was actually falling in love with her.  Not just sex, but the whole package.<br />Jacquelin Thomas can bring a story together that makes the reader know the characters in an intimate way.  You start feeling what Daryl is feeling.  I found myself talking back to the book. This story had some surprises.  I loved it.	2000-03-20
US	51831325	R2U599OL4IW8UR	1583140581	201241744	Spellbound (Arabesque)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What a Wonderful Story	Ariel met Jared on the Ferry  on the way to Martha's Vineyard.  What she didn't know was he was going to the same place she was(her grandmother's house).<br />Jared was mesmerized with Ariel upon their first meeting on the  Ferry.  It surprised him that she was the same little girl he use to rescue  in the past.  He heard of the curse of the Ludlow women from some of the  other men in Ariel's family.  They said the Ludlow women could make you  fall in love with them within six days, only you then have to convince them  they love you too.  Jared couldn't believe this could possibly be true.  Well it was.<br />This was a wonderful story from a newcomer.  Deirdre did a  really good job in creating all the characters in this novel.  Love, trust,  family are all in this book.	2000-03-16
US	51831325	RRK43ZRS5T984	1583140832	763386051	Precious Heart (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent, Excellent, Excellent	I couldn't put this book down.  I really enjoyed it.  Diamond Drew was a wonderful girl.  She was devasted when her mother was struck and killed by a car.  By the time she got to the hospital they had taken her mother's  heart and given it to another.  Diamond couldn't understand why.  She then  found out that her mother had signed her donor card.  Diamond wanted to  find out who had her mother's heart.  She found her and sought employement  from this rich widow woman.  She was not at all like Diamond's mother.  Her  mother was a kind spirit, this woman was contrary and mean.  Her son was a  doctor and he was attracted to Diamond when he first met her.  Steven tried  to pursue Diamond, and Diamond tried to resistant him.  After a while she  couldn't anymore.<br />There are so many things going on in this book with  Steven's family.  This still didn't take away from Diamond and Steven's  story.  There is an inside look at the reactions of families of people who  have donated and received organs. Great book Doris.  I really loved it.	2000-03-16
US	51831325	R3KNF967F3CMVD	1583140298	179120335	A Taste Of Love (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Book	I liked this book. Nia was a beautiful girl.  She really tried to make something of herself.  I also liked all the other characters except for one.<br />I really disliked Suzanne.  She was evil to the bone.  I was really  getting disgusted with her.  I wish there was a follow-up book where she  found real love.  I do believe there are people out there that are really  evil just like her.  It is too bad though.  Everyone deserves to find their  true love.  But you must have love in your heart in order to find that true  love. This is a very steamy book. It is truly worth reading.  Ms. Bussey  accomplished creating very thorough characters.	2000-03-15
US	51831325	RKHDE5DS1173S	1885478879	663134478	Caught In A Trap (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Something to Think About	Caught in a Trap was a book that really gave you an inside look at domestic violence.  Her husband was crazy and he always felt she was the cause of his problems.  He was an alcholic and to me just a crazed  maniac.<br />Jayna life started to change when she met Kyle.  Kyle was  divorced himself.  He was kind of arrogant, but all in all a wonderful man.  I was happy to see he and Jayna get together.<br />Jayna almost lost her life  each time her husband beat her.  The scene at the hospital was awesome.  I  wanted to cry. If you have not read this book you should.  You may know  someone that is in this same position.  Although in the book she came out a  winner, everyone is not as fortunate as Jayna.	2000-03-15
US	51831325	R39UJWYDI91IEY	1585710075	796804897	Best of Friends (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Lovers/Best of Friends	Mariah McCleary and Ramon Richards have been friends since college.  After Mariah's devasting breakup with her fiancee, Ramon was right there by her side.  When Ramon reveals how he really feels for her, Mariah doesn't want to except the fact that he really loves her.<br /> Ramon is a very caring  person.  He is truly someone you can call a friend.  He definitely wanted  Mariah to be more than just his best friend.  It took a tragedy to make  Mariah realize she was really in love with Ramon. I like the characters in  this book.  They have stories of their own that could be told book of their  own.Natalie Dunbar's first attempt at romance is definitely a good one.  It  was definitely worth reading.	2000-03-05
US	51831325	R186FL5UF0ZHQD	1583140506	345408604	Forbidden Heart (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Read	Mallory Heart was spoiled, selfish and didn't really know that much about life in the real world. In walks Ellis Carson, a man who made his own way in the world.<br />Ellis touches Mallory in a way no other person has ever  done.  I think helps her realize you have to communicate and trust another  person.  Mallory doesn't really know about real love, because she was never  shown real love by her mother Justine.  Mallory only knew about revenge and  playing hard ball. This was a wonderful story and I am glad Ms. Mason  softened Mallory.  When she was first introduced in her cousin Cole's  story, I didn't like her at all. The only bad thing I can say was it was  too short.  Hopefully, the next Heart's story will be longer.	2000-03-03
US	51831325	R3NT6216VJ2K96	1583140840	393756427	A Bittersweet Love	Books	5	1	1	N	N	MY GIRL !	A Bittersweet Love was a very good book.  I loved Teddy.  She was married to Adrian (a selfish man who she thought loved her).  When Teddy gets pregnant and tells Adrian, his response is abort it.  (I was thinking, this  guy is crazy).  His own mother didn't understand what happened to him.  She  raised all of her children to have compassion.  Teddy wouldn't have the  abortion and Adrian divorced her.  That was the best thing that ever could  have happened to her. Teddy is a photojournalist and is assigned to  interview the handsome Joachim West.  He is a fiction writer and is in  Northern Ireland writing his next book. Teddy and Joachim meet in  unexpected circumstances in Northern Ireland  and fell in love.  I loved  Joachim.  He was so understanding, but had nightmares about the death of  his wife Suzanne. This was an excellent story, if you haven't picked up  this book, please do so.	2000-03-02
US	51831325	R3TKMP51B5R6H3	1583140778	833487913	A Forever Passion (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	MAJOR DRAMA!	In A Forever Passion we met Sydney Tanner.  A hardworking college student trying to forget the uncaring, crazy people who raised her.  Her biological father was in prison.  Her mother and her husband were just down right  hateful toward her. Sydney decides to take a fellow student (Gabrielle  Hart) up on her offer to stay at her home and research her families history  to win $500 in one of her college classes.  Well Sydney got more than she  bargained for.  She meets Gabrielle's older brother Marcus.  Sparks  fly.<br />This story had so much drama, I couldn't stop turning the pages.  Everything was woven together and the characters were something else.<br />We  all know that every family has secrets and people don't like it when  something or someone threatens to reveal the family secret.  Members of  this family took desperate measure to ensure their family secret was not  told.  It actually backfired, because nothing is a secret for long. If you  have not read this book, please go out and buy it.  You will be glad you  did.	2000-02-24
US	51831325	R3CAQ04SFPX48S	0312973004	553367757	Island Magic: Far from Home/An Estate of Marriage/Then Came You/Enchanted (Romance Anthology)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Let's Go to the Islands Mon	Island Magic was just what I thought it would be.  All four stories were wonderful.<br />Felicia Mason's story was about a young woman looking for a little fling when she fell in love unexpectedly with an older man.  Eventhough this story was short, Ms. Mason told you enough about the  characters to form a solid opinion of them.<br />Shirley Hailstock's story was  one of my favorites.  I wouldn't mind sharing a house or condo with a  gorgeous man.  Her character had some serious decisions to make regarding  marrying a disabled man.  She didn't think she would come to the Island off  of Hawaii and fall in love with her housemate.<br />Ms. King-Gamble's story  brought some mystery.  It was well written.  A girl was betrayed by her  soon-to-be husband. After she broke up with him, she decided she would take  their honeymoon anyway. She met the hero on the island and didn't know he  lived in America as a cartoonist.  She thought he was just a jack of all  trades on the island.  I immediately thought &quot;Don't judge a book by  its cover&quot;.<br />Lastly, but definetely not least Ms. Alers story. I  loved this story.  A 47 year old woman found the love of her life by taking  an Island vacation.  I loved the way the Senator swept her off her feet.  She was always taking care of her children and even her ex-husband.  Now  she was going to take a chance at love again.<br />All these stories were  wonderful, but what else would you expect from these seasoned  authors.<br />Keep them coming ladies!	2000-02-01
US	51831325	R3UEHZBMSJMZPW	1583140735	387524936	Secret Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Wait Is Over	What a way to fall in love.<br />Diamond and Jacob Madaris fell in love unexpectedly. Diamond was coming to Whispering Pines to rest not fall in love.  Diamond was a people person.  She just loved people.  She was so  down to earth that Jacob just couldn't help but fall in love with her.<br />Diamond didn't like all the attention she was getting from the press,  that's why she wanted to keep Jacob a secret.  She soon saw the problems  that caused with his family.  They decided to come out of the closet.  I am  glad their story was told.  It would be wonderful if we could all have a  loving relationship like theirs.<br />If you have never read any of Ms.  Jackson's books, you are definitely missing a treat.  All of her books are  so well written that you know these people as well as your own family.  Each story individual does give you a wonderful story, but together it's a  continuing saga on one family and their close friends living in  America.<br />All the best to Ms. Jackson on a superb job.	2000-02-01
US	51831325	R2VS8EDQDDTJCS	0786004665	866917551	Moonlight and Mistletoe	Books	5	2	2	N	N	All Three Stories Were Excellent	I thought Moonlight &amp; Mistletoe was an excellent read. Keepsake by Ms. Reeves was a wonderful story about Gary and Kim.  Gary who was much older than Kimberly.  But, he proved to be just what she needed.  It was a tender  story that kept you turning the pages.  Next was Imani by Ms. Anderson.  I  think this was my favorite.  It spoke about abuse and healing.  A city girl  found just what she needed in a small town.  Her boyfriend was a jerk in  the biggest sense of the word.  It didn't know what I don't want to see you  anymore meant.  Lastly New Year, New Beginning by Ms. Poarch.  It thought  this story was really good also.  A woman found herself in love with her  deceased husband's best friend.  She found that her life could go on. All  the stories were beautiful.  It you have not read this wonderful book, I  suggest you do.	2000-01-19
US	51831325	R34LA0L2LMJYQC	1885478194	279162360	Glory of Love (Indigo Sensous Love Stories) (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great Read	Nina Sterling had been in love with Addison Wagner since they were in high school.  He intervened when some thugs were going to attack her down the street from where she was living with her foster parents.<br />Nina beat the  odds and made something of herself.  She wanted to make a difference  because of the way the Foster Care System treated children in their  care.<br />Addison Wagner was a man that had his heart broken.  Because of  that he treated all women as just conquests with no commitment. His  relationship with Nina started that way, but he started to feel something  more for her.<br />In this story, people learn to love, trust and depend on  each other.  Good job Sinclair	2000-01-05
US	51831325	R1LNHFRDDQRP1N	1583140719	473511981	Say You Love Me (Arabesque)	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Good Follow-Up Story	Say You Love Me is the follow up to I Promise.<br />Christian felt her husband (Jordan) of 15 years was neglecting her.  He would always forget important dates, like anniversaries and birthdays.  When she reminded him,  he would always shower her with gifts.  She didn't want that. She wanted  HIM.<br />Jordan was successful at running his software company.  He had  broken any communication with his father because he did not want to be a  part of the family business.<br />This story Say You Love Me is just what the  title says.  Sometimes it just takes you to say the words I LOVE YOU.  It  has so many lessons in it.  I was so glad that there were old wounds that  were healed in this story.  I am glad his twin brother Malcom and Alex  finally got together.<br />It was sad that there father died, but at least  he died with a smile on his face, because he righted some of his wrongs  with his children Jordan and Malcom. Again this is a good story.  If you  have not read it, please do so.	2000-01-04
US	51831325	R2CPAR2YACODKA	0786006072	634359079	Beyond Desire (Arabesque)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	My first Romance Novel	Beyond Desire was my first encounter with romance.  What a wonderful choice.  Since that time I have everything Ms. Forester writes.  She is such a skilled author.  You are never disappointed when you purchase any of  her work.  I loved the characters in this book.  I really was impressed  with Amy the little girl.  She seemed to seal the relationship with Marcus  and Amanda.  Amanda was a very intelligent woman with alot going for her.  Marcus was smart, but he was really stubborn.  I loved his brother too.  Can't wait for his story.<br />You Go Gwynne!	1999-11-30
US	51831325	RJKNDNNA862JT	0786005238	7023260	Hidden Blessings (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Read	Brandeis was really courageous.  Martin was crazy.  He had a spirit of possessivness.  Carrie poor Carrie.  She was trying to be liked.  She thought Martin really loved her.<br />I am glad that Brandeis and Jacksons  love was strong.  Just taking on the topic of rape was courageous of Ms.  Thomas.  The lesson is even is your body has been invaded, you still can  have a chance at love.<br />Keep up the great work Jacquie	1999-11-29
US	51831325	RU3N2T8K06CB6	1583140972	365665776	Whispered Promises	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Second Chance At Love	Caitlin and Dex were born to be together. Caitlin's father should have told her before he was on his death bed about them not being divorced.  But, better late than never.  When they got together the second time, I  think Dex new this was a more mature Caitlin.  She was very smart and could  hold her own.  Dex was a successful businessman.  He worked even harder  when he thought he had lost her.  I am glad they worked everything out.  Jordan was an added joy. Another Great story by Ms. Jackson	1999-11-29
US	51831325	R1PF6M62O6KK6O	0786000716	629957914	For the Love of You (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful Story	I love the attributes Ms. Mason puts in her characters.  Kendra had to overcome some serious obstacles in her life.  She pulled her self together and made something of herself.<br />Alot of young women today find themselves  in Kendra's position.  This story just reminds us that getting pregnant is  not the end of the world.  You can be truly loved by someone.<br />Ms. Mason  you Go girl!	1999-11-29
US	51831325	R164I3SZUXQYP6	1583140697	360508043	The Look Of Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Her Best Work Yet	Monica Jackson really put her heart in this book.  I don't know her personally, but reading this story, I can feel just what she was trying to say in the book.  Carmel Matthews did not only have a beautiful face, she  was beautiful all over.<br />Because she felt insecure with herself, she felt  that a man as prominant as Steve could really love her.  She was really  good at taking the critism Steve's mother was dishing out.  I think I would  have kicked her but before she got as far as she did with Carmel.  In all  reality Steve's mother was afraid that she wouldn't be beautiful if she was  a plus sized woman.<br />The moral of this story is that you can be truly  loved no matter what size you are.  You have to believe and love yourself  first.<br />GO MONICA! GO MONICA! GO MONICA!	1999-11-29
US	51831325	R36RH7WW0TRANW	0786003197	707803944	If Only You Knew (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Realistic Story	Anna May Justice's wanted to have a baby.  It was medically necessary for her to do it right away.  What better person than her best friend.  The man she's loved for so long.  Her friends were supportive, but had man problems  of their own, which made the story even more interesting.<br />Ric had some  family issues he had to sort through. With Anna May's help he came through.  I am so glad that he resolved his issues with his aunt and uncle.  I am  glad he helped his brother. Great read.	1999-11-29
US	51831325	R2RSI30YYFO942	0786005335	992395486	Everlasting Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This Book was the Bomb!	Everlasting Love was a book with many twists in it.  When you think you know who was trying to hurt Whitney something else happens to change your mind.  I have Ms. Perrin's other books and they are equally as intriguing.  Keep up the good work Kayla.	1999-11-23
US	51831325	R3D9PMOURQQU9N	1583140530	624882833	A Love Of Her Own (Arabesque)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Very well written	Ms. Griffin did a wonderful job in writing a story like this.  She created the characters so well that you felt you knew them personally.  I love the way she connected the famillies.  I especially think it was wonderful  exploring the issues that some women face today.  You never know whose life  you touch when you write these novels.  Ms. Griffin is a wonderful writer.	1999-11-23
US	51831325	R1XWPXKRA1T1M3	0786004339	310980483	Second Time Around (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great Second Chance Story	Olivia and John-Michael love each other.  Olivia wanted to get her education.  John-Michael wanted a successful farm.  His mother was a trip.  All the years John-Michael was growing up, he thought his father walked out  on him and his mother.  John-Michael's mother loved people to the point she  ran them away.  It was a wonderful story with a great ending.  Lessons on  forgiveness was big in this story.	1999-11-23
US	51831325	R3CUGG9FJLLLM5	0786004940	986913740	Keeping Secrets (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	GREAT READ	I am glad Ms. Green decided to write the story explaining how Marie died.  I think it was a wonderful story and Nick and Jade fell in love.  Each person had great characteristics.  Great story Ms. Green.  It would be  good if she did a story about Eric's daughter.	1999-11-23
US	51831325	R1MHYH82P6BPO	1583140379	271319125	Fools Rush In (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	MS. Forester Will Never Let You Down	I loved this story.  Like all of Ms. Forster other stories, it was precise, throrough and passionate.  I loved the storyline of Justine and Duncan.  It was also good to see characters from her earlier novel Against  All Odds.  This is a great story and if you haven't read you definitely  should.	1999-11-23
US	51831325	RF6HJDGWOFXN0	1583140565	792675407	Harvest Moon (Arabesque)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	BEAUTIFUL!	You wonder why a young woman would marry a man old enough to be her grandfather.  Regina Cole had a wonderful story.  She had love for two men.  Her love for the older man was one of compassion, gratitude and loyalty.  The love for the younger man was one of passion and trust binding them  close together. Regina was a courageous young woman and Aaron was not only  handsome, but was caring.  Ms. Alers has done it again, providing us with a  story that is senuous as well as spellbinding.  Keep on keeping on.	1999-11-23
US	51831325	R1YP9REDGZ2OAI	0786000724	175552843	Bands of Gold (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	GREAT STORY	Angela Benson is a very thorough writer.  this story was wonderful.  It had lessons so loves lost, secrets and forgiveness.  Christina finding out about her father was terrific.  I know Ms. Bensons christian romances are  going to be just as wonderful.	1999-11-23
US	51831325	R3M4CLHPQLZTYS	0786004568	532445366	Most of All (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	ENJOYABLE	Even through tragedy, love prevails.  This was a good book with mystery.  The hero and Heroine were a great match.  I was so glad her sister wasn't dead.  Ms. Bussey is a good writer.  Keep on writing great stories.	1999-11-23
