US	51834077	R35Q31SUNF9VOU	0821813579	661802401	Algebraic Geometry 2: Sheaves and Cohomology (Translations of Mathematical Monographs) (Vol 2)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A good book, but not Hartshorne	This is a good book on important ideas.  But it competes with Hartshorne ALGEBRAIC GEOMETRY and that is a tough challenge.  It has roughly the same prerequisites as Hartshorne and covers much the same ideas.  The three volumes together are actually a bit longer than Hartshorne.  I had hoped this would be a lighter, more easily surveyable book than Hartshorne's.  The subject involves a huge amount of material, an overall survey showing how the parts fit together could be very helpful, and the IWANAMI SERIES has some terrific, brief, easy to read,  overviews of such subjects--which give proof techniques but refer elsewhere for the details of some longer proofs.<br /><br />But it turns out that Ueno differs from Hartshorne in the other direction:  He gives more explicit nuts and bolts of the basic constructions.  Overall it is easier to get an overview from Hartshorne.  Ueno does also give a lot of \\"insider information\\" on how to look at things.  It is a good book.  The annotated bibliography is very interesting.  But I have to say Hartshorne is better.<br /><br />If you get stuck on an exercise in Hartshorne this book might help.  If you are working through Hartshorne on your own, you will find this alternative exposition useful as a companion.  You might like the more extensive elementary treatment of representable functors, or sheaves, or Abelian categories--but you could get those from references in Hartshorne as well.<br /><br />Someday some textbook will supercede Hartshorne.  Even Rome fell after enough centuries.  But here is my prediction, for what it is worth:  That successor textbook will not be more elementary than Hartshorne.  It will take advantage of progress since Hartshorne wrote (almost 30 years ago now)  to make the same material quicker and simpler.  It will include number theory examples and will treat coherent cohomology as a special case of etale cohomology---as Hartshorne himself does briefly in his appendices.  It will be written by someone who has mastered every aspect of the mathematics and exposition of Hartshorne's book and of  Milne's ETALE COHOMOLOGY, and like both of those books it will draw heavily on Grothendieck's brilliant, original, but thorny Elements de Geometrie Algebrique.  Of course some people have that level of mastery, notably Deligne, Hartshorne, and Milne who have all written great exposition.  But they can't do everything and no one has yet boiled this down to a textbook successor to Hartshorne.  If you write this successor *please* let me know as I am dying to read it.every aspect of the mathematics and exposition of Hartshorne's book and of  Milne's ETALE COHOMOLOGY, and like both of those books it will draw heavily on Grothendieck's brilliant, original, but thorny Elements de Geometrie Algebrique.  Of course some people have that level of mastery, notably Deligne, Hartshorne, and Milne who have all written great exposition.  But they can't do everything and no one has yet boiled this down to a textbook successor to Hartshorne.  If you write this successor *please* let me know as I am dying to read it.	2005-10-05
US	51834077	R2RG9197CPZ6PW	082180863X	661850888	Number Theory 1: Fermat's Dream (Translations of Mathematical Monographs) (Vol 1)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An accessible path from numbers to the sophisticated methods	This brilliant prcis of algebraic number theory goes from the simplest basics up to suggestive outline proofs of the most important theorems.  It is probably not a good first book on the subject although it is pretty self-contained in principle.  You should already be comfortable with groups, rings, and fields.    <br /> <br />Its great strength is connecting easily stated questions about Diophantine equations to more sophisticated methods.  Chapter 0 quickly relates Pell's equations x^2+Ny^2=1 to square and triangular numbers, and both to the groups of units of algebraic number rings. Chapter 1 on elliptic curves is illustrated throughout by a handful of typical examples, and it proves many steps, but not all, in the Mordell theorem: the rational points on an elliptic curve form a finitely generated Abelian group. <br /> <br />There are many insightful comments on how to think about the ideas overall.  These rise to poetry when we learn that the p-adic numbers are like the night sky, beauty obscured when the \\"sun\\" of the rational numbers blots them out. <br /> <br />The high point, typifying the book's style, is the last chapter explaining how arithmetic in an algebraic number field K is captured by the kernel and cokernel of one group homomorphism (the group map that takes each unit of the field to its principal fractional ideal-kernel is the unit group and cokernel the class group).  The remark is lightly made.  Examples are given.  But in fact the stage is being set for cohomological methods. <br /> <br />All this in 140 pages.  Plus there are exercises, and answers to them.   <br />	2005-07-23
US	51834077	R20O5BZS79ABUT	0387571167	292644555	Cultural Competency Training in a Global Society (Universitext)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Terrific companion to the SGA	This book is aimed at readers who want to know etale cohomology--it spends little time on motivation.  If you have not already heard of the SGA (Grothendieck's S&eacute;minaire de G&eacute;om&eacute;trie Alg&eacute;brique) then you probably don't want to read this.  It is in effect an introduction to the SGA, especially SGA 4 (and 4 1/2). It is very helpful as a concise summary giving an overview in many fewer pages than the SGA do.<br /><br />A special virtue is the quick introduction to spectral sequences, and the many examples using them. Specialists will note these are all Grothendieck spectral sequences, relating the derived functors of a composite to the derived functors of the composed functors. So in one sense they are a special case more used in algebraic geometry than in topology perhaps. But a widely useful case.<br /><br />This book does not say a lot about the &eacute;tale fundamental group of a scheme and in general it does not go far into algebraic geometry. It is a companion to other books that do that.<br /><br />It is a splendid short peek at Grothendieck's view of cohomology.	2005-07-14
US	51834077	R1LN67EJ2P84ZO	0140511512	575901307	The Penguin Atlas of Ancient History	Books	5	61	63	N	Y	A fine book, somewhat mis-titled	This is a very nice piece of work but not exactly an atlas of ancient history. It is a cultural geography of Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East. It has far fewer place names than I wanted from an atlas and much of it is pre-history beginning some 40,000 years ago.<br /><br />It starts with a brisk and entertaining account of the author's methods for interpreting scanty archaeological and linguistic evidence. This is at once accessible, learned, detailed, acerbic, and engaging. There is a funny bit about how archaeologists will say \\"a major new civilization\\" when they mean \\"a particularly disappointing dig\\", or will say \\"earliest known\\" when they mean \\"undated\\", and more. There is a terrific account of what it took to re-settle humans in Europe as the last ice age retreated. The effects were strong on Northern Europe into historical times (indeed Scandinavia and some of Russia is still rising and drying out today). The author estimates the human population of all of Europe and the Middle East was only about 100,000 in 9,000 BC.<br /><br />The book describes movements of peoples, languages, technologies, and writing systems. It maps out the earliest known trade relations. It includes many maps but with few place names. Rather they indicate where various ethnic groups lived and what technologies were used where. As it enters historical times the book describes the campaigns of rulers and empires. It is a beautiful piece of work and beautifully concise.<br /><br />On the other hand, if you are reading Euripides and you want to know where Lemnos was, you won't find it here. You will find the most famous places: In Greece, besides<br /><br />Athens and Sparta, are Mycenea, Lesbos, Argos. That is like finding Chicago and San Francisco in an atlas of the US.  But you will not find general Meno's birthplace of Larissa--which you would read about in either Plato or Xenophon.  It is like not finding St. Louis in a US atlas.  Those places are found in the Atlas of the Greek World (Cultural Atlas of) by Peter Levi.  And they are found in another book you should read anyway, namely the Landmark Thucydides.  It is a terrific edition available in paperback and it shows these places in detailed maps.the Greek World (Cultural Atlas of) by Peter Levi.  And they are found in another book you should read anyway, namely the Landmark Thucydides.  It is a terrific edition available in paperback and it shows these places in detailed maps.  <br />	2005-05-04
US	51834077	R2LKAEH7YXIMQP	0444823751	166135393	History of Topology	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A lot of very good essays	This book collects 40 essays on various themes, events, and personalities in the history of topology. I have browsed half of them and carefully read 6 or 8.  Plus I have used the book as a reference, and so gained isolated facts from many of the essays.<br /><br />The essays assume various amounts of background, proportionate to their subjects.  In generally they are very clear and if you have any knowledge at all of a topic you can read an essay on it here at least well enough to decide if you want to work harder on it.<br /><br />The book concentrates more on manifolds, fixed point theorems, algebraic topology, and homological algebra, than on issues in general or point set topology. It covers Poincare, Brouwer, Weyl, and gets up to derived categories.  It could not possibly cover everything in that range.  For one, Lefschetz is mentioned often but he could well have deserved a whole article on himself.  Or there could have been an article on the Princeton school. But incomplete we must all resign ourselves to be.<br /><br />The book is a huge amount of information, very well organized and presented.	2005-03-03
US	51834077	RSKSNFBH34HDK	019852496X	742526826	Sketches of an Elephant: A Topos Theory Compendium 2 Volume Set (Oxford Logic Guides)	Books	5	44	45	N	N	An easy call	Very simply: if you want to know a very great deal about topos theory, buy this book. I mean, seriously, if you plan to make real work on topos theory a part of your life, then grit your teeth and come up with the money. If you do not want to know a very great deal about it, do not buy this book. You can use it at the library as a reference.<br />If you merely want a professional understanding of what topos theory is, then read Johnstone's earlier TOPOS THEORY. That far shorter book gives a better overview. My Amazon review of it discusses others on the subject. Most are more accessible than Johnstone's books and go more into particular aspects of the theory.<br />This book is a reference on all the methods, and the latest results, in topos theory. If you want the definition of \\"split opfibration\\", it is here, along with some 80 pages of background, examples, and motivation. Johnstone does an heroic job of unifying the terminology and organizing the theorems.<br />More than that, Johnstone has written down an expert, encyclopedic view of the subject today. It is rare for a top mathematical researcher to give so deep an account of their field. It is rare for anyone to even work out such an explicit, coherent, extensive account of the whole. Not everyone will agree with his view. Some would like to see much less of such logical topics as \\"allegories\\", others would like to see the logic more formalized from the start. But Johnstone builds a case for his choices: partly implicit in his success at explaining things this way, and partly by explicit reasons.<br />If you want to know that much about the subject then you want to immerse yourself in this book.	2003-07-23
US	51834077	R28WVAYG266RS9	0299088146	988413141	A History Of Education In Antiquity (Wisconsin Studies in Classics)	Books	5	18	25	N	N	An Historic Work Of History	Walk down the Boulevard St. Michel in Paris, past walls pitted with bullet holes, marked by plaques commemorating Resistance fighters from WW II. Stop on a stone bench beneath the massive stone walls of the Sorbonne. Or take the narrow streets up to the Pantheon temple to the great men of France (the first woman elected to it was Marie Curie in 1995). Who lived in this already-ancient and recently bullet-ridden carved-stone world in 1948?  Well, Henri Ir&eacute;n&eacute;e Marrou, for one.<br />Marrou was a great product of French education and a great thinker on it. What he says of studying the Greeks, we can as well say of studying him today: \\"The fecundity of historical knowledge lives above all in the dialogue it creates in us between the Same and the Other\\". (I hope you did not think that \\"the Same and the Other\\" were postmodern ideas. The phrase is already in Plato's Timaeus.)<br />Present and past illuminate each other. Hitler's Germany teaches us not to naively admire the militarist slave-state of Sparta. Other ancient examples were just the thing, in 1948, to \\"reanimate the flame of liberty in the hearts of the young\\". Here is tremendous erudition aiming at the love of freedom. Not a bad idea today either.<br />This book is a history of Greek education and is still frequently cited. No more recent study seems to have supplanted it yet and none seem to still be in print. For the content of the book you can look into it here at amazon.com.<br />The French history I stress is mostly found in the introduction but for Marrou it is all our history. If you read the book in French (you can get it at amazon.fr) you will feel like you are in Paris, indeed an austere post-war Paris which no longer exists.  But that is not necessary. Read it in any language to learn something of:<br /><br />\\"Wisdom---this admirable word which we have forgotten and which the example of the ancients may help us to recover.\\"	2003-07-21
US	51834077	R28JP1256IOPKL	3540669132	491167918	Mathematics Unlimited	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	If you are interested, buy it.	Maybe you like the idea of this book but you are wondering, does it live up to the promise, will you actually read much of it, is it just too big? The answers are yes, probably yes, and no.<br />I've browsed maybe half of the chapters.  Each one is clear, easy to skim through, with a lot to dig into if you want.  So far I've found not one &quot;book report&quot; just summarizing recent work.  I've found fascinating helpful interpretations of subjects I don't know -- and challenging positions on subjects that I have my own view of.<br />Of course you can find fault.  The book leans more to applied math than I'd like.  And what about functional analysis?<br />Overall, I am stunned to think I wavered on buying this.  I almost passed it up.  It would have been a big mistake.	2002-04-02
US	51834077	R1SWWJNGBWBJYY	0123878500	210079349	Topos Theory (London Mathematical Society Monographs, 10)	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Still the standard text	You understand topos theory when you understand this book. I cannot say the same of any other.<br />Mac Lane and Moerdijk SHEAVES IN GEOMETRY AND LOGIC is a beautifully written book, a long and well motivated book packed with well chosen clearly explained examples. Both those authors have a rare gift for conveying an insider's view of the subject from the start. My own book ELEMENTARY CATEGORIES, ELEMENTARY TOPOSES goes quickly and simply to the key ideas (if I say so myself). Barr and Wells TOPOSES, TRIPLES, AND THEORIES uses the most efficient tools to get at the central theorems.<br />But no other book goes as concisely and comprehensively to all the aspects of toposes as this one. Category theory, algebra, logic, arithmetic, geometry, and cohomology all come in, in a well chosen perspective. This book is hard to read in places, especially at the start. It cannot serve alone as an introduction unless you are really gifted. But it remains the best single text on the subject.<br />Johnstone has a three-volume set on the current state of topos theory due to appear later this year. It may well become the standard reference. But it will not replace this book.	2002-02-14
US	51834077	R3S22A2HZIRVJY	0444703683	722582269	Categories, Allegories, Volume 39 (North-Holland Mathematical Library)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A work of genius, take it or leave it	This brilliant idiosyncratic book conveys a crystalline insight into category theoretic accounts of structure. The most original aspect is the theory of relations.  The approach is spartan in its simplicity.  In effect we assume that each relation Rxy has an opposite (as &quot;x is less than y&quot; has opposite &quot;x is greater than y&quot;) and suitably matched relations have composites (as the composite of &quot;x is brother to y&quot; with &quot;y is a parent of z&quot; is &quot;x is uncle to z&quot;).  We make a few more assumptions none of which involve set theory, and we get a very powerful theory with applications in many situations in logic and category theory.<br />The main technical tool is representation theorems which in effect show how closely our abstract categorical theories capture various set theoretic ideas.<br />It is distinctively Freyd's view of category theory, with fine contributions by Scedrov.  The worst thing about it is the thoroughly private terminology.  Even such standards as pullbacks get renamed here (as &quot;levels&quot;).  So you more or less have to read the book from the start even to understand it on topics you already know.  But it conveys one powerfully original and creative view of the subject, with significant applications.	2002-02-14
US	51834077	R3A318T4Z4E8T6	354063293X	698807760	1358: The Red Book of Varieties and Schemes: Includes the Michigan Lectures (1974) on Curves and their Jacobians (Lecture Notes in Mathematics)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	The nearly Royal Road	In a nutshell, reading this book is like reading the mind of a great mathematician as he thinks about a great new idea. Anyone interested in schemes should read it. But a review needs more detail:<br />The RED BOOK is a concise, brilliant survey of schemes, by one of the first mathematicians to learn of them from Grothendieck. He gives wonderfully intuitive pictures of schemes, especially of &quot;arithmetic schemes&quot; where number theory appears as geometry. The geometry shines through it all: as in differentials, and etale maps, and how unique factorization relates to non-singularity. There is a bravura discussion of Zariski's Main Theorem (the algebraic property of being &quot;normal&quot; implies that a variety has only one branch at each point) comparing forms of it from older algebraic geometry, topology, power series, and schemes. Mumford cites proofs of these but does not give them. In fact, this theorem was one of the first things Mumford could use, to get Zariski to respect schemes.<br />Many accomplished algebraic geometers say this book got them started. But you probably cannot learn to work in the subject from this book alone--you either have to work with people who work with it, or use some other books besides (maybe both). The other book would probably be Hartshorne ALGEBRAIC GEOMETRY, which is far more detailed, has far more examples, goes very much farther into cohomology--and is very much longer and denser (though also clearly written).<br />Eisenbud and Harris GEOMETRY OF SCHEMES covers a lot of the same ground as THE RED BOOK, with fewer advanced topics but many more details and examples, including classical geometric constructions like blow-ups and duals to projective plane curves. They use slightly more category theory than Mumford, more like Grothendieck.<br />Probably none of these books will work for you unless you already know some algebraic geometry: how polynomials define a variety, the Zariski topology, what regular and birational maps are. There is more than enough in Myles Reid's humorously titled UNDERGRADUATE ALGEBRAIC GEOMETRY and UNDERGRADUATE COMMUTATIVE ALGEBRA with vividly geometric ideas in slightly scheme-theoretic language.<br />The RED BOOK now includes the Michigan lectures, which are reputedly terrific, but I have not worked through them.ps are. There is more than enough in Myles Reid's humorously titled UNDERGRADUATE ALGEBRAIC GEOMETRY and UNDERGRADUATE COMMUTATIVE ALGEBRA with vividly geometric ideas in slightly scheme-theoretic language. <br />The RED BOOK now includes the Michigan lectures, which are reputedly terrific, but I have not worked through them.	2001-12-10
US	51834077	R2ERM212DGV95U	0387989803	434207153	An Invitation to Algebraic Geometry (Universitext)	Books	5	58	60	N	Y	Wow!	This could be your only book on algebraic geometry if you just want a sound idea of what algebraic geometry can do. If you actually want to know the field, and you do not already have a lot of expert friends telling you about it, then the advanced books will go much more easily with this expert around. It is a terrific guide to the key ideas--what they mean, how they work, how they look.<br />The only book like this one in brevity and scope is Reid UNDERGRADUATE ALGEBRAIC GEOMETRY--with its highly informed, highly polemical, final chapter on the state of the art. Both are very good. This one is more advanced. Beyond what Reid covers, Smith sketches Hilbert polynomials, Hironaka's (and very briefly even De Jong's) approach to removing singularities, and ample line bundles. You do need a bit of topology and analysis to follow it. Smith has very many fewer concrete examples than Reid. They are beautifully chosen classics, like Veronese maps and Segre maps, so they teach a lot. And the more you know to start with, the more you will see in each.<br />The book does geometry over the complex numbers. It is good old conservative material, with terrific graphics of curves and surfaces. The proofs and partial proofs are very clear, intuitive and to the point. But, in fact, just because the proofs are so clear and to the point they usually work in a much broader setting. Long stretches of the book apply just as well over any field or any algebraically complete field. This generality is only mentioned a few times, in passing, but is there if you want it. Smith describes schemes very briefly, and mentions them at each point where they naturally arise. You will not know what schemes &quot;are&quot; at the end of this book. You will know some things they DO. She has no time for fights between &quot;concretely complex&quot; and &quot;abstractly scheming&quot; approaches--for her it is all geometry.	2001-12-09
US	51834077	R2R0YVRJA48XGZ	0821819984	371746854	Geometry and the Imagination (AMS Chelsea Publishing)	Books	5	66	66	N	N	A glimpse of mathematics as Hilbert saw it	The leading mathematician of the 20th century, David Hilbert liked to quote &quot;an old French mathematician&quot; saying &quot;A mathematical theory should not be considered complete until you have made it so clear that you can explain it to the first man you meet on the street&quot;. By that standard, this book by Hilbert was the first to complete several branches of geometry: for example, plane projective geometry and projective duality, regular polyhedra in 4 dimensions, elliptic and hyperbolic non-Euclidean geometries, topology of surfaces, curves in space, Gaussian curvature of surfaces (esp. that fact that you cannot bend a sphere without stretching some part of it, but you can if there is just one hole however small), and how lattices in the plane relate to number theory.<br />It is beautiful geometry, beautifully described. Besides the relatively recent topics he handles classics like conic sections, ruled surfaces, crystal groups, and 3 dimensional polyhedra. In line with Hilbert's thinking, the results and the descriptions are beautiful because they are so clear.<br />More than that, this book is an accessible look at how Hilbert saw mathematics. In the preface he denounces &quot;the superstition that mathematics is but a continuation ... of juggling with numbers&quot;. Ironically, some people today will tell you Hilbert thought math was precisely juggling with formal symbols. That is a misunderstanding of Hilbert's logical strategy of &quot;formalism&quot; which he created to avoid various criticisms of set theory. This book is the only written work where Hilbert actually applied that strategy by dividing proofs up into intuitive and infinitary/set-theoretic parts. Alongside many thoroughly intuitive proofs, Hilbert gives several extensively intuitive proofs which also require detailed calculation with the infinite sets of real of complex numbers. In those cases Hilbert says &quot;we would use analysis to show ...&quot; and then he wraps up the proof without actually giving the analytic part.<br /><br />If you find it terribly easy to absorb Hilbert's THEORY OF ALGEBRAIC NUMBER FIELDS and also Hilbert and Courant METHODS OF MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS, then of course you'll get a fuller idea of his math by reading them--but only if you find it very easy. Hilbert did. And that ease is a part of how he saw the subject. I do not mean he found the results easily but he easily grasped them once found. And you'll have to read both, and a lot more, to see the sweep of his view. For Hilbert the lectures in GEOMETRY AND THE IMAGINATION were among the crowns of his career. He showed the wide scope of geometry and finally completed the proofs of recent, advanced results from all around it. He made them so clear he could explain them to you or me.thout actually giving the analytic part.<BR> <BR>If you find it terribly easy to absorb Hilbert's THEORY OF ALGEBRAIC NUMBER FIELDS and also Hilbert and Courant METHODS OF MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS, then of course you'll get a fuller idea of his math by reading them--but only if you find it very easy. Hilbert did. And that ease is a part of how he saw the subject. I do not mean he found the results easily but he easily grasped them once found. And you'll have to read both, and a lot more, to see the sweep of his view. For Hilbert the lectures in GEOMETRY AND THE IMAGINATION were among the crowns of his career. He showed the wide scope of geometry and finally completed the proofs of recent, advanced results from all around it. He made them so clear he could explain them to you or me.	2001-11-08
US	51834077	R2G5FA6XEQKGRM	3540586555	446795462	Basic Number Theory (Classics in Mathematics)	Books	5	70	73	N	N	A warning to beginners	Experts find this a very good book, and I rate it on their advice. But others need to understand that Weil is making a bit of a joke with the title. This book is &quot;basic&quot; in the sense that it proves the theorems that Weil feels organize and clarify all of number theory--the &quot;basic&quot; theorems in that sense. It is an introduction to class field theory.<br />As Weil says at the start of the book, it has few prerequisites in algebra or number theory, except that the reader is presumed familiar with the standard theorems on locally compact Abelian groups, and Pontryagin duality and Haar measures on those groups. This part is not a joke.<br />If you want to really understand class field theory this may be a good book. (I am reliably told it is.) But Weil deliberately avoids using many ideas that are now standard: geometric ideas such as group schemes, and especially cohomological methods.<br />Beginners studying algebraic numbers do not need this book. Weil recommends Hecke ALGEBRAIC NUMBERS for such readers, and that is a terrific book. To learn class field theory today you'd probably do better with and Cassels and Frohlich ALGEBRAIC NUMBER THEORY, which Weil also recommends in a note to the second edition of this book.	2001-11-06
US	51834077	R2L2HUVAFH53S4	052145901X	304049289	Algebraic Curves over Finite Fields (Cambridge Tracts in Mathematics)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Informative, oddly organized	This is really two booklets put together, one for mathematicians and one for computer scientists or electrical engineers, with the more accessible one put second. Throughout, the method is very algebraic, as opposed to geometrical. The author explains that he wants to require as little geometry as possible. And this book assumes you have your own motivation for the material. So it gives few examples or explanations until after the theorems are proved. Probably the best source for introductory examples and geometric motivation for Zeta functions on finite fields is chapters 7, 10, and 11 of Ireland and Rosen's CLASSICAL INTRODUCTION TO MODERN NUMBER THEORY.<br />  Moreno's chapters 1-4 aim at math grad students. Chapters 1-3 prove the Riemann-Roch theorem for curves on finite fields, and then use it to give Bombieri's proof of the Riemann Hypothesis for those curves. The treatment is on the level of Hartshorne's ALGEBRAIC GEOMETRY and often refers to that book for an alternative account. But Moreno's book is just on dimension one, and only over finite fields. So he proves the Riemann Hypothesis for this case by page 69, while Hartshorne gives the proof as an exercise on page 368. Ireland and Rosen prove only some special cases, notably the case of elliptic curves on their page 302.<br />  Chapter 4 continues the first three, with a very long and attractive discussion of L functions and exponential sums on these curves, with applications in number theory. I have not learned this material yet but I'll tell you this is the most encouraging treatment of it I have seen.<br />  Chapter 5, which is over one third of the book, does not assume the earlier chapters. It aims at computer scientists interested in the theoretical limits on efficiency of Goppa codes and practical ways to approach those limits. Here are much more elementary explanations of the methods used in earlier chapters. It explains the &quot;birational&quot; viewpoint where a curve is studied by way of the field of rational functions on it, and in fact that field takes on a life of its own. The original curve is forgotten and &quot;points&quot; are defined to be &quot;discrete valuation rings&quot; of any function field. Moreno explains how, in clear cases, these correspond to the points of geometrical curves. But, as a key example, &quot;points&quot; at infinity are automatically included on this approach, even if you do not include them in the geometric curves.  He explains what the Riemann-Roch theorem actually says about curves. This chapter does not give complete proofs, and indeed it cites other books for the proof of at least one theorem that was already proved in chapter 1.<br />  You can learn a lot from this book but you'll have to dig for it.the field of rational functions on it, and in fact that field takes on a life of its own. The original curve is forgotten and &quot;points&quot; are defined to be &quot;discrete valuation rings&quot; of any function field. Moreno explains how, in clear cases, these correspond to the points of geometrical curves. But, as a key example, &quot;points&quot; at infinity are automatically included on this approach, even if you do not include them in the geometric curves.  He explains what the Riemann-Roch theorem actually says about curves. This chapter does not give complete proofs, and indeed it cites other books for the proof of at least one theorem that was already proved in chapter 1. <br />    You can learn a lot from this book but you'll have to dig for it.	2001-10-28
US	51834077	R3OXB8US0868FZ	0198502583	985599813	The Mathematics of Plato's Academy: A New Reconstruction	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A brilliant, sprawling book	Two things are certain if you really want to know what mathematics was done in Plato's Academy, and before Euclid: Your heart will break at the lack of evidence, and you will have to read this book.<br />Fowler details how thin the surviving evidence is, even for such basics as when Euclid's ELEMENTS were written. Drawing on other careful classicists he demolishes now traditional stories about the Pythagoreans and the irrational, Plato's Academy, even Euclid's own style in the Elements. He shows them coming from heavy interpretations of extremely vague (and often late) sources. Plates in the book show how desperately scanty are the physical remains of any mathematical writing within centuries of Plato's death. Even the first and second century AD leave us only a few scraps of Euclid.<br />On the positive side, Fowler gives a persuasive account of a method of reciprocal subtraction which he calls &quot;anthyphairesis&quot;. It lay within the grasp of Athenian geometers, and suits some remarks Plato makes on mathematics, and suits traditions on geometers Plato knew, and goes far to unify and explain much of Euclid. It was apparently cited by Aristotle (under the name &quot;antanairesis&quot;). Probably, it really was used in the period. It also makes some very pretty geometry. Regular pentagons make a lot of sense anthyphairetically. Anyone trying to read the later books of Euclid, especially books X and XIII, will get tremendous help from this book. Conversely, you can hardly read much of this book without reading Euclid.<br />The book is not well organized. It spends many pages at a time on mathematical reconstructions that could not possibly have been used by the Greeks, so as to show beyond question that they could not have been. And it probably pushes its point too far. That is what classicists do. They push a point for all it is worth and perhaps more. These flaws are inevitable when you work on such important questions on so little evidence. Fowler assembles enormous amounts of classical textual evidence and later scholarship. He gives some nice mathematics including an appendix on the later arithmetized incarnation of anthyphairetic methods as continued fractions.<br />If you are determined to ask what math Plato knew and promoted, and what existed before Euclid--and so you are determined to break your heart--then you must read this book.ormous amounts of classical textual evidence and later scholarship. He gives some nice mathematics including an appendix on the later arithmetized incarnation of anthyphairetic methods as continued fractions.<br />If you are determined to ask what math Plato knew and promoted, and what existed before Euclid--and so you are determined to break your heart--then you must read this book.	2001-08-17
US	51834077	R354BXET4P9OH1	0387986502	706418861	Geometry: Euclid and Beyond (Undergraduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	37	37	N	Y	A stunning book	Hartshorne is a leading mathematician known for work in rather abstract geometry (see his book ALGEBRAIC GEOMETRY). He takes Euclid's ELEMENTS as great mathematics, no mere genial precursor, and collates it with Hilbert's FOUNDATIONS OF GEOMETRY.<br /> Of course Harshorne proves that Euclid needed the parallel postulate, by exhibiting a non-Euclidean geometry. He gives a very pretty compass and straight-edge Euclidean theory of circles, which then turns into the Poincare plane model for hyperbolic geometry. He also proves that Euclid needed the method of exhaustion for volumes of solids: he gives the agreeably simple Dehn invariant proof that even a cube and a tetrahedron of equal volumes are not decomposable into congruent parts. It is a famous proof, rarely seen, and a beautiful use of the modern algebraic viewpoint in classical geometry. I had always supposed it must be hard but it is not.<br /> Hartshorne also develops the contested &quot;geometric algebra&quot; of Euclid as a modern axiomatic algebra. Many commentators have shown it is wrong to think Euclid was doing &quot;algebra&quot; in the sense of a disguised theory of the roots of quadratic polynomials. But (unless and until Fowler's THE MATHEMATICS OF PLATO'S ACADEMY changes my mind) I think it is reasonable to say Euclid is doing algebra in this sense.	2001-07-14
US	51834077	RX2MH7LZ3SWI7	048660747X	507442350	Elementary Concepts of Topology (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Gem	A great book, born in a great moment of mathematics. Alexandroff explains, and shows in pictures, what topology is basically about and why &quot;homology groups&quot; are the way to do it.<br />Anyone can follow this who has had multivariable calculus, plus seen the definition of a group (as in, say, arithmetic modulo 2).  In 55 profusely illustrated yet rigorous pages Alexandroff shows how to define topological manifolds, cut them into &quot;simplices&quot;, and keep track of simplices algebraically. He proves the two founding theorems of topology: the dimension of manifolds, and their homology groups, are both preserved by topological isomorphisms.<br />Alexandroff was a favorite student of Emmy Noether, and L.E.J. Brouwer, and followed Hilbert's lectures. The greatest algebraist, the greatest topologist, and the greatest mathematician of the early 20th century all had direct input into this book. All believed the most important, deepest mathematics can be made the clearest. They were right.	2001-02-23
US	51834077	ROBJ6GSX8S04C	0896081508	203148811	On the Necessity of Bestializing the Human Female	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the funniest books in existence	This is a wonderful parody of &quot;scientific&quot; explanations of sex roles, and the funniest book on biology ever. Feminists will probably like it more than Will Cuppy fans will. But anyone who likes feminism, or sex, or cartoons, or science humor should read this. The back cover alone is a treat. And don't worry if you suffer from &quot;heterosexuality&quot;. Sims takes a very understanding view of it.	2001-02-18
US	51834077	R1TVEJC60Z37XF	0195130871	230292965	What Is Mathematics, Really?	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Really philosophy of mathematics	The book offers the best kind of live, seriously thought out, philosophy of mathematics--in real contact with mathematical practice and teaching. Hersh writes from a deep love of mathematics and a deep concern to make it accessible to others, and for him both of those motivate philosophic reflection on the nature of mathematics.<br />Hersh notes that mathematics is a social enterprise. People may pursue it alone in their rooms, and even do the greatest thinking that way (as Andrew Wiles did some great thinking in near secrecy on the way to proving the Fermat theorem). But what they think about is not their sole creation (witness the many enthusiastic citations Wiles gives to what he owes others). What we call &quot;proofs&quot; in actual practice are not complete deductions in formal logic, nor simply &quot;whatever persuades you&quot;. They are reasonings that live up to a socially recognized standard.<br />Hersh believes, and argues, that students who understand the social nature of mathematics will approach it with more interest and less fear than those who think it is inhuman perfection. Actually, I think he is wrong about that. Students today generally believe literature is a social product, but they still too often think that &quot;getting it&quot; is an arcane and uninteresting skill of English teachers. But Hersh's view deserves careful consideration and you can learn from him whether you agree in the end or not.<br />I will also say that Hersh's descriptions of earlier philosophies of mathematics are not always historically very accurate. And though he has genuine concern to give sympathetic accounts of them (before giving his own refutation) he does not always succeed. But neither are his versions notably worse than the versions in other similar books. For accurate accounts of Plato or the 20th century giants Poincare, Hilbert, Brouwer, and so on, you have just got to read the originals.<br />Anyone interested in philosophic thought about math, and not just solutions to one or another specific technical problem in the philosophy of math, should read this book. But don't only read this one.t solutions to one or another specific technical problem in the philosophy of math, should read this book. But don't only read this one.	2001-01-05
US	51834077	R2BW9QTC5ZBW8B	0133397483	829514332	Ancient Greece: State and Society	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Concise, vivid, and generous	This is a short lively book on two centuries in one city - 5th and 4th century Athens. The first 50 pages give quick context on the Greek world from 6500 BC. This is very helpful towards understanding the great stories of the past that Athenians all knew, and explaining the origin of the Athenian city plan and political order. Jones's vivid account of Mycenean palaces gave me a whole new sense of Homer and the characters in Greek tragedy.<br />Then the book settles into the city. Jones describes its physical arrangement, government and religion, the main political and economic groups, family structure, and the life patterns of typical occupations: farmers, laborers, craftsmen. Jones has a great way of picking lively details. My favorite is his account of archaeological finds on a street that Socrates used to frequent. It is a very good balance of overview and detail, for a quick look at Athens.<br />One striking feature of the book is how clearly Jones describes other interpretations competing with his own, and how he uses that to make the book more lively and attractive. It does not come across as bickering, but as exploring possibilities. He is generous enough to give sympathetic accounts of many other views (though I suppose the people he disagrees with may not agree with me!). Much of this material is necessarily conjectural, as the sources are quite sparse. Jones makes a few very helpful remarks on the the extent of existing archaeological evidence.<br />And of course the book gives good suggestions for further reading on many topics.	2001-01-02
US	51834077	R3H5EXLZPAT8PW	088432138X	684388233	The Pronunciation and Reading of Ancient Greek: A Practical Guide (Living Voice of Greek and Latin Literature Series)	Books	4	26	26	N	Y	Valuable for self-teaching	Daitz comes across, to me, as a gifted and even passionate teacher. And he is well known for his long time devotion and expertise on reconstructing the sound of ancient Greek. The tape is clear and covers all the basic sounds of letters and accents in ancient Greek, plus some treatment of sentence rhythms. It deserves the attention of anyone interested in ancient Greek pronunciation. And it is indispensible to anyone studying Greek on their own because you have to say the words to yourself somehow.<br />In fact Daitz's English pronunciation is very odd on this tape, as another reviewer complains. But I think he is trying to help you learn. He pronounces English with faint but discernible pitch accents! The note of his voice rises and falls as in Greek. And he speaks in meter, as in Greek only less obvious. I'm not sure it is a successful technique. The few attempts at humor are awkwardly jammed in too. But that is his passion for the subject and for making it attractive to learn.<br />The main thing I wanted after listening to this, was simply more. More on pronouncing whole words. More on whole sentences. The tape gives complete explicit instructions on these, plus extensive readings from ancient authors, but a lot more step by step examples would be useful.	2001-01-02
US	51834077	R29ULZYN4VPDQQ	0679764046	215482713	Shadows on the Rock (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Wonderfully evocative	I have never been to Quebec city, but I feel like have because of this book. Reading the book I felt like I lived there. I knew what was around each corner and what was down the hill. It was years ago and I don't recall the story very well any more. But I still know the feel of the streets. A wonderful sense of place. This is one of the few books that has most stayed with me. I'll have to re-read it.<br />Probably, the people who found it boring had to read it for a class. That is a real problem. Even with a fine enthusiastic teacher, if you're forced to read a book, which you did not choose at that time, you are apt to find it boring. This is in fact a wonderful book.	2000-12-21
US	51834077	R202YJTVPZS1Z	0679764046	215482713	Shadows on the Rock (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Wonderfully evocative	I have never been to Quebec city, but I feel like have because of this book. Reading the book I felt like I lived there. I knew what was around each corner and what was down the hill. It was years ago and I don't recall the story very well any more. But I still know the feel of the streets. A wonderful sense of place. This is one of the few books that has most stayed with me. I'll have to re-read it.<br />Probably, the people who found it boring had to read it for a class. That is a real problem. Even with a fine enthusiastic teacher, if you're forced to read a book, which you did not choose at that time, you are apt to find it boring. This is in fact a wonderful book.	2000-12-21
US	51834077	R247PT3FAI3VM0	0486210103	378403677	Essays on the Theory of Numbers (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Accessible genius	This is not a book of &quot;number theory&quot; in the usual sense. It is a book combining two essays by Dedekind: &quot;Continuity and irrational numbers&quot; is Dedekind's way of defining the real numbers from rational numbers; and &quot;The nature and meaning of numbers&quot; where Dedekind offers a precise explication of the natural numbers (using what are now called the Peano axioms, since Peano made so much of them after reading Dedekind). They are essays in logic, or foundations of mathematics, or philosophy, as you like. And they are brilliant, readable, works of genius.<br />Probably the main value of the book is as an introduction to Dedekind's way of thinking about mathematics: his clarity, precision, and way of cutting to the bare core of a subject. You can find the same genius in Dedekind's THEORY OF ALGEBRAIC INTEGERS (available in a fine English translation by John Stillwell) but of course that is a more advanced text. The same style of thought works powerfully in all of Dedekind's mathematics. But most of it is very hard stuff. Here you see it in easily accessible form, suitable for even a smart high school student willing to think hard.	2000-10-13
US	51834077	R1WIDJPNGXBJ3Q	0816614490	980851702	Male Fantasies, Vol. 1: Women, Floods, Bodies, History (Theory and History of Literature, Vol. 22)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Richly and persuasively detailed history	A deeply felt and extensively documented look at the lives and times of these men in Weimar Germany. The author looks unflinching at the Freikorps men, precursors of the Nazis, with all that they have very different from most of us today--and all they have that is all too common with us today. But here I am stressing the conclusion. The point is, he honestly gets his conclusions out of huge amounts of documentation on everyday life. These men represent an extreme, of course, but their motives and life-conditions were very close to many people in the Weimar Republic. It is a great book on that period, which also relates that time to our own.	2000-10-06
US	51834077	R3RKD9PGHDNZEO	0521565189	458423848	Theory of Algebraic Integers (Cambridge Mathematical Library)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Emmy Noether called it a must-read	This is Dedekind's famous creation of the theory of (algebraic number) rings and modules, which he presented as an appendix to his edition of Dirichlet's LECTURES ON NUMBER THEORY. In fact it went through several editions, and the translation here is from another article he wrote to make the ideas more accessible. Anyway Noether had her students read every versiom of it. Her watchword was &quot;It is all already in Dedekind&quot;, meaning largely this work. And she was right, in a very deep sense the whole modern approach to abstract algebra is in Dedekind, though it took her phenomenal genius to *find* it there.<br />Dedekind (most of the time) explicitly limits himself to modules of algebraic numbers, but Noether correctly saw that Dedekind already knew (many of) his theorems held for the whole abstract range she would explicate and develop. Benefitting from her, we can even see this generality peeking through in some of his remarks.<br />Anyone knowing the basic modern ideas of rings and modules can read this with pleasure, both as the origins of abstract algebra with many fine insights to offer, and as a connection to the concrete motives. Of course Dedekind wrote for people who did not know such things. But he assumed they would think very, very hard. He also assumed some arithmetic ideas not widely taught today, but nicely explained in Stillwell's preface. Dedekind is a wonderful writer, well served here by a clear translation. You are apt to fall in love with this book, and want to accompany it with Dirichlet's own LECTURES ON NUMBER THEORY, written up by Dedekind, and also translated to english by Stillwell.	2000-10-04
US	51834077	R1HT946IFJD0CV	0387533427	528733656	From Number Theory to Physics	Books	4	12	13	N	N	I'm no expert	Since no one else has reviewed this I'll say a bit about it. The book consists of extensive notes, written up after lecture series on each topic, and for the most part they are very clear and useful as introductions. Only the notes on Zeta functions seem to assume you were in the audience for the lecture!<br />Bos on Riemann surfaces, and Stark on algebraic numbers and Galois theory, are tremendously clear and informative, on the basic math and also on the farther reaches relating it to number theory and physics. Those happen to be the ones I've read most. The chapters on elliptic curves, modular forms, p-adic analysis, are all very nice. I have not looked at the more physical chapters.<br />The chapters assume basic real and complex analysis, but not very much. You need to be able to work with abstraction on the level of non-Archimedean metrics. If that is the limit of your background, then you'll have to be able to read about math that is not explained in full detail all the time, but is clearly layed out.	2000-10-04
US	51834077	R1H43AI45822E	0521565189	458423848	Theory of Algebraic Integers (Cambridge Mathematical Library)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Emmy Noether called it a must-read	This is Dedekind's famous creation of the theory of (algebraic number) rings and modules, as an appendix to his edition of Dirichlet's LECTURES ON NUMBER THEORY. In fact it went through several editions, and Noether insisted that her students read every edition of it. Her watchword was &quot;It is all in Dedekind&quot;, meaning largely this work. And she was right, in a very deep sense the whole modern approach to abstract algebra is in Dedekind, though it took her phenomenal genius to *find* it there. Anyone knowing the basic modern ideas of rings and modules can read this with pleasure, both as the origins of abstract algebra with many fine insights to offer, and as a connection to the concrete motives. Of course Dedekind wrote for people who did not know such things. But he assumed they would think very, very hard. He also assumed some arithmetic ideas not widely taught today, but nicely explained in Stillwell's preface. Dedekind is a wonderful writer, well served here by a clear translation. You are apt to fall in love with this book, and want to accompany it with Dirichlet's own LECTURES ON NUMBER THEORY, written up by Dedekind, and also translated to english by Stillwell.	2000-10-02
US	51834077	R3QEGPUEADD7G7	1568810938	305394625	The Incompleteness Phenomenon	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A good simplification for teaching	This is an interesting simplification of Goedel's first incompleteness theorem. The book assumes there is a standard model of the Peano axioms, so that in effect it assumes the axioms consistent and even true. Then it shows nonetheless the axioms cannot decide every sentence. This brings out the main point of incompleteness, I think. But it is far weaker than Goedel's proof in two ways: it uses stronger assumptions, and it proves incompleteness only for the standard Peano axioms. There is a brief discussion of how this kind of proof would work for any consistent extension of the Peano axioms but I did not find it very helpful to my class. Of course the assumptions pay off in a very much quicker proof and much less concern with syntax.<br />In fact, the main problem with the book is that the assumptions are never made quite clear. The authors say several times that their result is weaker than Goedel's, but never say why. A discussion of this somewhere in the book would be helpful--both to students and profs. Presumably they do not use the full strength of a standard model of the Peano axioms, but it would be a chore to go through and see just what they do use.<br />I taught this book as a one semester course for students who had previously seen predicate logic in an intro course. To fit it into a semester I skipped the chapter on model theory (not needed for the incompleteness theorem) and the material at the end on recursive functions. The book gives a very pretty account of induction, stressing from the start that the natural numbers are just one case of an inductive structure. This made later inductions on, say, well-formed formulas, very clear to the class. The students got the compactness theorem very easily, as they had not in other class I've taught from other books. The short account of non-standard models for arithmetic is helpful in showing that Goedel's theorem is *not* about whether the Peano axioms say all there is to know about arithmetic--the fairly simple compactness theorem already shows no first order theory can do that. I expect to use this book again the next time I teach the subject.imple compactness theorem already shows no first order theory can do that. I expect to use this book again the next time I teach the subject.	2000-10-02
US	51834077	R22B5837TV6WXY	0387941266	933771025	Homology Theory: An Introduction to Algebraic Topology (Graduate Texts in Mathematics) (v. 145)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Masterful	This introduction to singular homology combines a strong historical sense with an easy mastery of modern methods. The massive contributions of Poincare and Brouwer are credited, and their geometrical motivations are clear. At the same time the book neither minimizes nor apologizes for modern algebraic machinery, but treats categories and acyclic models and more as natural means to simplify the subject. The book goes through Poincare duality and a good account of the Lefschetz fixed point theorems. It is at once very visual and algebraically slick.  The only problem with this approach is that the author seems a bit uncomfortable descending into the nuts and bolts of the longer proofs of two key results (the acyclic model theorem, and the duality theorem). He handles the details unevenly and makes some actual mis-statements. Here the reader needs the experience and confidence to make some corections.	2000-09-30
US	51834077	RPUG3A8XG5KFW	0387986375	325272743	The Geometry of Schemes (Graduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	43	47	N	Y	A very good start	This book is clear, well written, and has a nice balance of generalities and examples. If you know the basics of rings and modules, this book will show you what schemes are and why they are useful for several different problems: for example, number theory, or studying singularities. I find it a helpful companion to Hartshorne's ALGEBRAIC GEOMETRY. But this book does not get to cohomology, and so cannot actually get to the working methods in the subject. For that, you need Hartshorne.	2000-09-24
US	51834077	R2FJ7OSFR09BHJ	0387984038	147752729	Categories for the Working Mathematician (Graduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	59	62	N	N	One of the great books in mathematics	This book is a classic. Clearly written, drawing on a vast number of different applications and motivations for the subject. Eilenberg and Mac Lane created category theory and this book is alive with the very style of thought Mac Lane brought to it in the first place. It is obvious that Mac Lane wrote each page, and each exercise, with a view of the whole book in mind. He starts with the very basics, assuming indeed that you know nothing of category theory. He goes on to adjunctions, limits, the adjoint functor theorems, monads (triples), monoidal categories, Abelian cateories, Kan extensions, higher dimensional categories, and categorical foundations. It is a masterpiece and one of the great books in mathematics.	2000-09-24
US	51834077	R1V9G6Z0H88MY1	0521458897	168335411	Undergraduate Commutative Algebra (London Mathematical Society Student Texts)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	&quot;Undergraduate&quot; in the best way	The material in this book is not usually considered &quot;undergraduate&quot;: Noether normalization, spectra of rings, discrete valuation rings, and more. But this book makes them very clear. It is more geometrical, and has more motivation, than Atiyah and MacDonald INTRODUCTION TO COMMUTATIVE ALGEBRA. It is briefer and more surveyable than Eisenbud COMMUTATIVE ALGEBRA. If you go on in the subject you will certainly need Eisenbud's book. This is a very good starter, and a good companion to Eisenbud if you are learning the material on your own.	2000-09-24
US	51834077	R1K2CM0UYIQAXH	0387902449	207047398	Algebraic Geometry (Graduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	56	62	N	N	Terrific, if you want it.	This book hardly needs a review on Amazon, because if you have as much math background as it needs, then you must already know it is indispensible for learning about schemes in algebraic geometry. The book is clear, concise, very well organized, and very long. If you do not already know the Noether normalization theorem, and the Hilbert Nullstellensatz, then you do not want this book yet--you want an introduction to commutative algebra.	2000-09-24
US	51834077	R2DIHH1I45QWV3	0520078446	710601507	Introduction to Attic Greek	Books	5	100	104	N	N	Terrific second book for self-teaching	If you simply adore rules of grammar you could begin learning Greek from this book. But you will memorize 57 pages of complicated noun declensions and prepositional phrases before meeting a single Greek sentence--a one-word sentence that means &quot;I see&quot;. Most people would do much  better beginning with ATHENAZE, which has you read whole paragraphs of  simple but correct Greek in a few pages.  But you will eventually want to  learn grammar more systematically than the immersion method of ATHENAZE  allows. Mastronarde loves Greek grammar and his love is almost infectious.  He does it in considerable detail from the start, and makes it all more  attractive than I'd have thought possible. This book is not a reference  grammar, as it does not discuss the many, many variants that actually  occur. It is a terrific systematic introduction.	2000-05-02
US	51834077	RNPJMW1NDJMIK	0387977104	481717507	Sheaves in Geometry and Logic: A First Introduction to Topos Theory (Universitext)	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Clear explicit descriptions	This book is written in the best Mac Lane style, very clear and very well organized. It also benefits from Moerdijk's extensive work organizing the theory of Grothendieck toposes by elementary means. The reader should have  basic graduate knowledge of algebra and topology. The book is long because  it gives very explicit descriptions of many advanced topics--you can learn  a great deal from this book that, before it was published, you could only  learn by knowing researchers in the field.	2000-03-28
US	51834077	R312V0UJAJ7MXG	0521624010	636638247	A Primer of Infinitesimal Analysis	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	Engaging, novel approach	A recently developed approach to calculus lets Bell go very quickly from the basic definitions up to several interesting applications in geometry and mechanics. This version of calculus bypasses a lot of technical details  to focus on the geometric meaning. If you have had analytic geometry then  in principle you could read this book. It would be better if you have had  some exposure to calculus but you do not need to remember much of it, and  this book can quickly take you farther.<br />Readers who want to get to the  applications can skim through much of the first chapter, on historical and  philosophic motivations for the approach.<br />But a word for specialists:  the book is also valuable as an exploration of this approach, called  &quot;synthetic differential geometry&quot;. This was created to make  calculus more accessible but most people writing about it have focussed on  theoretical investigations, as it involves a number of very new ideas. By  writing on the introductory level, with rather advanced geometric  applications, Bell has brought out novel aspects of the approach. Logicians  and mathematicians interested in this foundation for geometry, or in  elementary topos theory, should see what he has done.	2000-03-27
US	51834077	R2P16J1CH4ZQC8	0195056213	425791138	Athenaze: An Introduction to Ancient Greek: Book I	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Get this book	If you want to learn ancient Greek, you want to read this book. If you were looking for a sophisticated novel, the reading exercises here will disappoint you. And of course as you progress in Greek you'll want a reference grammar and good lexicon. But to get started learning the  language, get this book.	2000-03-19
