US	51838149	RX9PP1WABMY76	1588160297	708661753	Esquire's Things a Man Should Know About Sex	Books	2	8	10	N	N	a magazine article re-packaged as a slick book	This slim, shiny volume can slip into the palm of your hand or into your pocket but not on your bookshelf b/c i don't see how you can read it after flipping through it more than once. It has the feel of one of those mini-books you see on display at the local Borders, like The Little Book on Zen. In short, it's a novelty book.<br />I bought this book because I enjoy the show \\"Queer Eye on the Straight Guy\\" and was intrigued to find out that Ted Allen (the Food guy)co-wrote this book. But I was disappointed to learn that it is basically a bunch of pithy aphorism-like setnences that is ALWAYS followed by a cheeky joke or sarcastic comment. While amusing to read in a magazine article format (why, like Esquire!) I was looking for something more substantial a la Queer Eye. Y'know, some tips, some ideas with the overall goal of improving your sex life and getting your mojo back on track.<br />Instead, it's a multi-font joke book with \\"advice\\" like don't wear black socks in bed. Wacka wacka. <br />Think I'll stick to watching Queer Eye. That seems to do more to help a guy's game than this weak book.	2003-09-18
US	51838149	R2K3A8KXP2GWTK	0312190301	690185410	A Cab Called Reliable: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	no model minorities here	The main character, Ahn Joo, writes a short story in middle school which wins first place. In it, she lists phrases that her Korean mother, who has abandoned her, says to her as a child--sharp, mean, and brutally vicious words. Afterwards, a classmate whispers to her that it was way too dark, depressing, weird. In a sense, so is this novel.<br />This is not a book for children, although the protagonist is a child. But it really is a portrait of a dysfunctional immigrant family with lots of sexual, mental and physical abuse. At times, Kim almost goes overboard with the listing and the descriptions, but she always pulls back a little and you find it to be a pretty engaging read, and short enough to not get bogged down in despair.<br />She apparently wrote this for a college literary journal, and it does have that morose, over-obsessive quality to it; but make no bones about it, this novel somehow pulls it off despte being bleak, bleak, bleak. I think she portrays the alcoholic father, especially toward the end, with some sympathy and affection as he struggles to carve out a living and a home for the two. I actually enjoyed reading how he manages to save money and keep trying to work his [backside] off for the two of them. And the mother's psycho behavior is explained with a little twist at the end, a perfectly dark explanation for all this dysfunction.<br />In the end, I would say it was a very well-written and interesting read. Unfortunately, it points more toward the author's own neurosis and mental health than anything else--you wonder if any of this is autobiographical b/c it's so spare and brutal--and what major issues she must have undergone to come up with someting so utterly dreadful and dysfunctional. The child is definitely gonna need counseling since she's a bit cuckoo already. But it does have power and it is different from your average Asian American fare. For bold, fearless venturers, it's a short detour through immigrant hell.	2003-09-08
US	51838149	R9Y7I3IYKKSDW	0394741188	525592680	Ransom	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A great novel for the most part, but then...	This is was actually a very enjoyable and engaging read. I enjoyed the keen descriptions, the insights of an outsider in Japan and some of the clever dialogue. The disturbing flashbacks to the Pakistani border, a hint of some past trauma, reminded me of Hemingway's &quot;The Snows of Kilamanjaro.&quot;<br />But the ending was strange, almost dream-like. Without giving it away, there is a violent martial arts duel. Was it real? It was disappointing. Give credit to McInerney for trying to do something different and unusual, but he didn't quite pull it off. It felt like the characters and the plot were left a little too unresolved, disjointed.<br />Overall, a very talented, funny writer with a good skill for fluid, engaging reading. I hope to read his other works.	2003-07-11
US	51838149	R1QTNZOON06KPN	0802137725	144667176	Fat Bald Jeff	Books	2	5	10	N	N	a poor attempt at a british comic novel in chicago	I read this book on the basis of a Critics Choice recommendation in the Chicago Reader where the reviewer said that he kept laughing aloud when he read it in public. I usually trust their opinions on books and movies, but they dropped the ball on this one. A friend read the first couple of pages and said,\\"Why would I want to read about such a mean person?\\" Exactly. If it were a kind of nastiness that makes you like the character, then fine. But if it's just a kind of forced look-at-me-riding-with-no-hands type of character description of that oh-so-zany eccentric character straight out of \\"Absolutely Fabulous\\", then we've got problems.<BR>I got the feeling that the author was trying to write a a Chicago-based screenplay based on too many British comedies she saw on TV.<br />First of all, Stella is not David Sedaris, but more importantly, she is not Sue Townshend. Townshend wrote a hilarious series of novels based on fictional diaries by one Adrian Mole, a british lad of 13 who grows up in each of the successive novels. They were so enjoyable because Adrian is such a wonderfully drawn character, an endearing prig with a dysfunctional family; you can't help rooting for him and his pretentious attempts to be a (poor) fiction writer with all his idiosyncrasies and quirks.<br />Leslie Stella tries to do something similar here with Addie, but the book is not as clever or as witty by half. The plot is pretty dull and jarringly immature (the idea of getting revenge on your boss and officemates by posting a website? hardly subversive or as deliciously sneaky as the author makes it out to be). And meanwhile, the protagonist's distinctively bumbling character is portrayed in a hamhanded way: Stella makes sure we know *wink, wink!* that Addie is supposed to be such a poor, drudgery-working, likeable snob, a pretentious princess wannabe born to hippie parents and stuck in office politics a la Dilbert or the movie \\"Office Space.\\". But you never really like this character, especially when the reader is supposed to think how cute she is for failing to realize that she left her sandwich in her own purse while accusing others of stealing it. That's a clever joke? You get the feeling that the author is so intent on pointing out what a wonderfully nasty and quirky character Addie is--when really, it's just over-the-top silliness that is hardly believable. \\"Isn't Addie a scream?!\\" is the message Stella seems to be pounding over the reader's head. \\"See? She gets drunk and faints at parties, isn't that a riot? Have you heard of anything so OUTRAGEOUS?!?\\" Er, actually not...<br />The reason why Adrian Mole worked is that the character had a touch of reality to it, some sympathy that could be elicited from the reader who relates to his human failings and unself-conscious pretentions. You really believed that there was such a character that maintained his integrity to the bone, even in the midst of his crazy framily and friends. Here, Stella is too forceful and direct with her attempts to get us to like Addie. The other character, fat bald Jeff, is likewise just another weird character without any real interest drawing us in. <br />I admit that I found myself reading through this book at a fluid clip, and remained mildly interested throughout. But kept thinking how much more interesting it would be if it were a short story for Lumpen, the underground zine in Chicago that Stella helped found. But the limp lot and the excessive atttempts to portray an eccentric and quirky character lacked all the wit, charm and credibility of Adrian Mole. Addie is just plain silly.  But it wasn't painful to read through, & it did make me smile a few times; but given the preposterousness of it all, it was kind of empty and light. I kept wishing it were better.	2003-05-16
US	51838149	RGDRB18P3C0NW	0944031595	568564703	If You Want to Be Rich & Happy Don't Go to School: Ensuring Lifetime Security for Yourself and Your Children	Books	1	21	43	N	N	A Great Salesman!	I enjoyed reading this book, because it was an exercise of being enticed, stimulated, drawn in, and then forced to ask what is ABSURD and yet appealing about this book. And I found the \\"right answer\\"! He's a great salesman!!!<br />First, I just gotta mention: This has got to be one of the lamest book covers I've ever seen. Couldn't he choose on a single font or better colors? And the clumsy, ungrammatical phrasing of the title itself made me laugh.<br />I kept thinking, What school did he go to? He describes an educational system that I've never heard of. It's laughably simplistic and a caricature of a real school, as if all schools cared about were grades and right answers. Who really thinks this? Kiyosaki is describing Pink Floyd's 'The Wall' and not reality. It's too simplistic of an analysis, too reductionist of the problems AND the solutions.<br />Consider his laughably over-exaggerated and melodramatic statements about education. Using bombastic language, he writes that education is 'a nightmare,' a 'silent, insidious virus' that 'infects almost every aspect of your life'' ;'a cancer that silently eats away' at humanity. Education today is so 'inhumane and barbaric,' that he compares it to the Jews in the Holocaust where children get slaughtered. How offensive is that?<br />Instead, he praises lessons learned from the Chinese Cultural Revolution (an assertion that staggers the mind given the human rights abuses and upheaval that took place there), that Columbus is a great model for 'discovery' (oh really? What about the racism, slavery and genocide that followed?), and his Vietnam experience as a fighter pilot (he admits on page 65 he basically deserted, abandoning ship during combat and was called a 'traitor' by his fellow pilots, and yet he still touts his 'combat experience' as a former Marine throughout the book and on the back cover bio). Can we really seriously take what this guys says without a major grain of salt?<br />This is a man who uses the outdated term 'Oriental' (and this is the mid-1990's when he wrote this!) as a self-referential term and then has the gall to complain that the West doesn't keep up with the 'Orient' in terms of modern technology and efficiency. Hey, why doesn't he update HIS archaic, politically incorrect use of term 'Oriental'? 'Asian' or 'Asian American' has been the operative word of the day for quite some time or hasn't he heard?<br />But Kiyosaki is very effective at making you think he has the answers (ironic, isn't it?) How? Through his EXPERT SALESMANSHIP!!! He convinces you that you are bored and dissatisfied with your job (exploiting a truth that is all too common), uses statistics detailing the wretched financial shape of most Americans who are in debt and hate their jobs (also true), and then offers 'new' paradigms and ways of thinking which are so commonsensical and enlightening that wham! It slices, dices and pays for itself! But these ideas are NOTHING NEW. <br />Overall, this book is about as substantive as all the amazing grills, self-sharpening knives and vacuum-sealing bags and other assorted TV Infomercial clutter you store in your attic. Save your money. Now that's creating wealth!	2003-04-29
US	51838149	RTAWPD1DUVEYF	0374177139	55529285	The Interpreter	Books	2	16	23	N	N	Some promise, but ultimately boring...	First, the good points: Kim has talent as a writer; some of her descriptions shine, and you can see that there is clear potential somewhere in there. But not with this bummer of a book.<br />First of all, the character: Are we supposed to care about her? Brooding and morose, it's hard for the reader to sympathize with Suzy Park, the nondescript Korean American female protagonist who has all the emotions of a jellyfish. She seems to be an automaton, who, by her own admission, has an affair with a married man at the age of 20 followed by a whole string of affairs for the next decade as she seems to float through life in a comatose state. Why? What compels her? Kim goes into excessive descriptions into how emotionally catatonic, frozen and traumatized Suzy is without explaining why (she is often depicted feeling detached and spaced out--in the rain, in a feverish swoon, throwing up, during a deposition) that I wanted to shake her to her senses! And yet, we are asked to believe that her lover Michael, a disconnected character who calls her \\"babe\\" and uses glib \\"love talk\\" (with a laughably clumsy use of profanity) is madly in love with this dazed and confused woman. Yeah, right.<br />Secondly, the plot: it hints at being a quasi-murder mystery, but rather than follow any aspects of the crime genre, Kim merely uses it as a device to delve into narcissistic angst and excessive self-moping. The clues, hints, and encounters lead nowhere, like a bad David Lynch film. It functions instead as a meditation on detached, empty existence of an ethnic minority. Anyone expecting to get a satisfactory resolution to this \\"mystery\\" will be disappointed.Meanwhile, the promising theme about being an \\"interpreter\\" between two worlds is lost. <br />Other Korean American writers like Chang-rae Lee and Leonard Chang have used the ethnic minority as a \\"spy within the body\\" motif quite well. There could have been a good opportunity here for employing themes of trauma, mystery and immigration/ethnic identity, but Kim doesn't quite have an adequate plot or narrative structure to pull it off. At times, Kim also makes reference to American pop culture references as an example of Suzy's longing to assimilate, how she wants to have the ideal American TV family home and how her reality jars with that. But when she goes into needless descriptions of Manhattan and dialogues about Van Gogh, Nabokov, and Kurosawa's \\"Ran\\", it just comes off as pretentious and self-serving dribble. <br />\\"The Interpreter\\" delves into an unpleasant block of depression that goes nowhere. I guess the worst thing I could say about this book is that it's boring--imagine the movie \\"Memento\\" without the plot structure. But it's a debut novel. With a tighter, more cohesive plot and less heavy handed bleakness and pretentiousness, Kim may be able to pull off a better novel in the future.	2003-04-15
US	51838149	R25LZLJUBNRIP9	1877727938	326362574	Sketch of the Fading Sun	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Korean women in contemporary S. Korea	Pak Wan-so (or Wan-suh Park here) is one of the most famous writers in South Korea. Her stories revolve around women who have grimness, determination and resolve in their attitude toward life. Like much of post-War Korean lit that has been translated, these are not \\"happy\\" stories. There are depressing moments at times, brutal and harsh depictions of survival and despair. But the writing shows through depite a number of minor, albeit annoying, spelling and punctuation errors, the translation is smooth and readable overall; just a bit more proofreading on the part of the publishers would have helped things out even more. Park is a powerful storyteller and should be enjoyable to read for those interested in Korean literature in translation. Check out her novel \\"The Naked Tree\\" as well as one of her short stories published in the Korean anthology \\"Land of Exile\\" formore of her translated work	2003-02-17
US	51838149	R2LCHLRV48RG9S	0231106424	322531697	Sex Among Allies	Books	4	18	19	N	N	an important work	This book gives an excellent history of US-ROK relations re: the US military troops in S. Korea. It also gives a vivid and detailed snapshot of the harsh, and sometimes brutal and tragic lives, of military prostitutes in the \\"camptowns.\\" And finally, it provides international backdrop, context and setting of the Nixon doctrine, S. Korea's regime during the 1960's and 1970's, and aspects about the political economy. There is such a dearth of information on all these subjects taken from the POV of these women and on this topic, that I give this book 4 stars because it finally sheds light on a little-known area. It is indeed very well-written and informative. I felt I learned much about the macro and micro worlds of the US military in S. Korea from a very different and neglected perspective.<br />Unfortunately, it's not a history book, but a sociological study. There, I would have to say is the book's weakness. The author's argument is that the women are not just \\"passive victims\\" but rather, \\"players\\" who played an indispensable role in US-ROK relations. She builds her argument by pointing out that typical state-to-state relations involving elites, government institutions, and \\"men in suits\\" fail to address how non-elite, lower-level \\"actors\\" play a role and how international policies not only impinge on their bodies but also how they express some \\"agency,\\" or autonomy by the women themselves. This comes off as a somewhat exaggerated argument, tenuous at best, and only plausible in the ideal world of academia. It seems more like she is trying to set up a \\"straw person\\" argument that combines feminist theory, organizational theory, and sociological analysis. All fine and good for the acedmics, but I wasn't very convinced as a lay reader. What agency can you really give to women who are forced to prostitute their bodies? What power and resistance can one have by selling sex? To her credit, she does admit that their power is limited and that they are don't have much say. But still, the argumentis more to convince her advisory panel for her Ph.D dissertation than the general public. I think the power of her book remains the fact that she has given voice to an \\"invisible\\" segment of women who have been discriminated and neglected, and shown how the US-ROK military relationship very much involves them. I wouldn't use the word \\"player\\" because it connotes or implies more \\"agency\\" than they have, but again, this seems more to be a political academic thing that the author is trying to make that is irrelevent to the very major contribution she has made. I think that as long as you learn something from this book, which you will, it is definitely a must-read for those who wish to examine US-ROK relations.. But still, the argumentis more to convince her advisory panel for her Ph.D dissertation than the general public. I think the power of her book remains the fact that she has given voice to an \\"invisible\\" segment of women who have been discriminated and neglected, and shown how the US-ROK military relationship very much involves them. I wouldn't use the word \\"player\\" because it connotes or implies more \\"agency\\" than they have, but again, this seems more to be a political academic thing that the author is trying to make that is irrelevent to the very major contribution she has made. I think that as long as you learn something from this book, which you will, it is definitely a must-read for those who wish to examine US-ROK relations.	2003-01-28
US	51838149	RDWI2RYLFMTH8	0140280464	18229976	My Year of Meats	Books	2	56	61	N	N	such a great beginning, only to deteriorate into ground beef	It is quite rare for me to be so completely enthralled and delighted by the 17th page of a book, and one from a debut novelist to boot. Which is why my disappointment at the appallingly bad last half of the book is so acute.<br />First, if I had to rate the first half on creativity, humor, style, etc. I would surely give this book FIVE stars. Ozeki is a beautiful writer, the phrases and descriptions are exquisite and delightful.The humor sharp, acerbic. In particular, the depiction of cultural clashes between the Japanese crew in America was extremely funny and well-done. Much insight, real honesty and real verisimilitude. And the segments on American families--beautiful, glorious, heartwarming.<br />But what happened?! As I moved toward the end, my grief was palpable: I cringed. I wailed. I wanted desparately to go back to the beginning. For me, everything went downhill after the silly relationship with Sloane. The main character Jane, who WAS so brash, funny and aggressive, starts to become wimpy, wishy-washy and clueless in the arms of Sloane. Should she have the baby or not? Should she commit to this guy or not? It became a case study of post-feminist angst and it tired pretty quickly.<br />Secondly, what happened to all those three-dimensional characters? While I agree with the author's views on the beef industry, the characters came off as fake, superficial and cliche. Evil cattle rancher. Busty, young stripper-wife of cattle rancher. Evil wife-beating Japanese man. Timid Japanese housewife. She pits heroic, \\"good\\" stock characters against the \\"bad\\" cardboard villains of the beef industry. For e.g., the quiet. principled truck driver Dave who points out all the evils of the slaughterhouse seemed less like a solid character and more like a convenient plot device to get the anti-beef lecturing across. Akiko and John start off as delightful characters who also disintegrate into a syrupy soap opera cliche. Ultimately, Ozeki insults our intelligence by not lettingus make our own decisions and does an injustice to the characters she originally created; the effect is as jarring and disturbing as a cattle prod.<br />That was the main problem of this novel. It started off as cynical and witty, but couldn't escape from sentimentality and a need for self-righteous closure. Bunny, Rose, the lesbian couple, etc. all cram themselves in to fit into a plotline that is more ideological rant than art. Ozeki backs off from her challenging narrative to give us a nice, fake bow at the end--somuch like TV! Despite the \\"hard-hitting documentary\\" style she professes, Jane (and Ozeki) are really just ... for the \\"happy ending.\\" That means constructing a villain (the beef industry) at the expense of a good story. Even the graphic violence and bloodiness of the beef industry she tried to gruesomely convey, is all just conveniently part of a sugary-syrupy plot in the end. After Jane loses her baby, reunites with her lover, comesto terms with her Japanese mother, I felt like throwing this book into the offal and refuse of the cows she was describing--BUT not because it was bad! In fact, the first half could be described as 'brilliant'. But because this book let me down so much. That is an even bigger betrayal to me than to have written a bad book from the start. What could have been a promising debut has deteriorated into the plot of a soap opera with an ultimately dissatisfying ending.	2003-01-24
US	51838149	R1MGFC08OM2F9J	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very nicely done	I would have given this book 5 stars, but I have to agree with another reviewer--there is a &quot;New Yorker&quot; style of fiction that has now become its own genre. If you read too many of them in a row, you feel like blowing up a Pottery Barn warehouse. To her credit, Lahiri writes very well--very evocative, sophisticated and lyrical. And she doesn't write about Indian American yuppies or their upper-middle class sensibilities...at least, not all the time. She also writes about a poverty-stricken woman in India, and the subtle clash of culture, class and identity for immigrants and transnational characters. She is an effective storyteller and I found the stories very nice. There is a sense of trauma and mourning in most of the stories, a loss that has to be negotiated. I think she conveys this very well, even beautifully. Also, as my Asian Indian friend once complained to me, she avoids the cliche of other Indian/Asian American writing that focuses on &quot;spices&quot; as a metaphor for asimilation/acculturation. ha!	2003-01-09
US	51838149	R39POO0DM556G9	0312210914	915024431	Korea and Its Futures: Unification and the Unfinished War	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A "thicker" description of Korea if you will	You don't necessarily need to have an anthropology degree to read this \\"psychocultural analysis\\" of Korea--the author is an excellent writer and I found his approach, style and analysis to be very intriguing, provocative and powerful. At any rate, a work like this is precisely (desparately) what is needed. There is such a dearth of material that examines how north and south Korea think about each other as similar/different in terms of unification. Most people just assume it is a given without looking at it more closely. I found it fascinating and informative to catch a glimpse of how post-war south Korea problematically depicted the north through school books, student demonstrations, and museum exhibits. And yes, I agree with the other reviewer: The chapter on the thoughts of north Korean defectors was something I was hungry to learn about it and it didn't let me down.<br />It is so hard to think about the two Koreas--they are placed in such a reductionist, bi-polar context that any nuanced or multifacted view or outlook is hard to discuss. The author demonstrates how complicated, contradictory and ultimately unprepared Koreans are for this \\"sacred goal\\" of unification. I was struck by how limited and \\"stuck\\" Koreans have been in their assumptions about national identity, defining themselves in opposition to each other all the while pushing for unification. A great virtue of this book is that it avoids the typical approach of other scholars, pundits and news commentators who take a dry, \\"political science\\" approach to north Korea, limiting their analysis to geopolitics, regional power dynamics, diplomatic strategies, nuclear prolliferation issues, blah blah blah. The author uses museums displays, children's textbooks and TV shows, as well as real life interviews with defectors. Quite a good book with excellent analysis that will leave you feeling that you learned to realize something oh-so-human and fascinating about a deadlocked political situation in an illuminating way.	2003-01-09
US	51838149	R2OI94B7AUVW1W	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Fantasy, a World Created	I can see the point of some critics who disliked the book. I was also surprised that it was \\"lighter\\" than I had thought given all the accolades, hype and awards. The characters are drawn lightly, humorously; quirky little vignettes about their past like John Irving's _The World According to Garp_ i.e. the president who is addicted to soap opera, the accompanist who is in love with the singer, etc. But to be fair, I think for the average reader out there, it is an enjoyable and engaging book to read. And if you allow yourslef to be swept away by it, it's a delightful romance of art and life. Patchett weaves a fantasy, a world of her own. There might not be anything very heavy, profound in the vein of THIS IS SERIOUS LITERATURE, but Patchett successfully, in my opinion, has created a world and I found myself drawn into it. Taking a step back, I can see how others don't want to get into the surreal, unrealistic and implausible aspects of it. Though inspired by a real event, the entire premise--terrorist-hostage relations in a South American country at the home of the vice-president--kinds asks you to read sympathetically with the drama. I kind of viewed it as a delightful little soap opera; take it for a spin.	2003-01-09
US	51838149	R2UE9LTHZAUI8D	007138426X	324908542	Fit from Within: 101 Simple Secrets to Change Your Body and Your Life--Starting Today and Lasting Forever	Books	2	16	25	N	N	Disappointing	The cover and text are nicely designed, and the writing is clear, concise. But the &quot;secrets&quot; aren't really secrets, and the advice consists of commonsensical, everyday things that you could come up with yourself. I found most of her suggestions to be useless; other &quot;tips&quot; have been discussed in other books in more depth and detail than these pithy chapters. Only a sliver of the 101 chapters are okay. She could have called it &quot;12 Tips on How to Lose Weight&quot; in a pamphlet and charged less money. A newspaper article or pie chart has about the same substance as this book. In that sense, this book is more of a &quot;feel-good&quot; self-esteem book that offers very little applicable advice, some of which is hardly related to weight loss. As a male, I also found the author's assumption that her readers would be female a little excluding. Of course, male writers do it all the time, but she should have realized that men would also be interested in this book and should have written it with both genders in mind.	2002-05-31
US	51838149	R1MO0NWDJHQZ74	0743437357	148737074	The Lucky Gourd Shop	Books	1	8	10	N	N	disturbing	The book's opening chapter starts out great: I would have loved to have heard more about the three children. But once the fictional reimagining begins, I became incredulous. Scott knows nothing about a real Korean family and makes disturbing generalizations that wouldn't bother me if it weren't for the fact that many adoptive parents will be reading, and believing, this book.<br />First, the notion that a young girl could be orhpaned in the back of a shop and \\"raise herself\\" through a succession of \\"Ama's\\" (Scott's mistransliteration for mother, \\"Omma\\") is preposterously unbelievable. The depiction of this Korean girl as a primitive savage who views TV as \\"people inside boxes\\" like Tarzan meeting civilization is outrageously offensive. I won't even go into the depiction of the father as a cruel Oriental patriarch. But her assertion that Korean women are passive, servile slaves to men, who don't even have a name except in relation to her role as mother is distorted and wrong. Men are often addressed as \\"So-and-so's father\\" (my own father, for e.g., Jeong-suk Appa) just as women are!; Koreans often do NOT address each other by their personal names but by their relationships: uncle, teacher, sister, etc. But Scott takes the tag of the \\"mother of such child\\" and makes it seemas if this is due to sexism in Korean culture. This only perpetuates the worst stereotypes of Korea and makes adoptive parents feel better for having \\"rescued\\" Korean babies from that terrible country. I feel sorry for adoptees who read this and will grow and up and feel self-hatred for their horrible country of origin. Does anybody want to talk about America's responsibility for the devastation that took place in Korea that necessitated international adoption? Does anyone really know that Korea is the 14th largest economy in the world? I suspect Ms. Scott has her own personal issues with Western feminism. Korea is a convenient place for her to dump her own hang-ups, at the expense of dignity and truth. Take the advice of the other reviewer: study Korean hisotry and culture on your own, not from this awful book.	2002-05-13
US	51838149	R1EMSEL9CIW86P	0393323080	755196723	Yellow: Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	At Last	Finally an Asian American work that avoids cliches and writes about such things as Asian American men and Asian Hottie fetish mixed with racism and sexual politics to boot--and all with real intelligence. Lee pins everyone to the wall--men and women--explores their issues, their sexuality, their prejudices, and their hang-ups in a subtle, but engaging and realistic way. The prose is top-rate, Lee is a masterful storyteller on par with some of the best fiction writers out there. The stories \\"Casual Water\\" and the eponymous \\"Yellow\\" are poignant, well-written stnadouts; but check out \\"Domo Arigato,\\" the story of a Korean American male and his white lover in Japan, and you get the feeling of Finally! Really great writing that has finally broken past the cliched Asian American streotypes of the past!	2002-05-11
US	51838149	R1T7NZIXVUOD0E	0609609343	366644236	In the Absence of Sun: A Korean American Woman's Promise to Reunite Three Lost Generations of Her Family	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Highly Recommended	This is a very engrossing story that moves along like an action-adventure story. I think the fact that Helie Lee wrote it in such a personal way only helps the story: you come away amazed by her courage and resolve. The style is quick-paced, absorbing and captivating. Most importantly, the book raises the awareness of North Korean refugees and shows the world that it is a human story that affects millions of Koreans and Korean Americans. Lives were at stake and big power politics recede into the background, but the commitment, love and dedication of a family triumphs. <br />And the author's personality and character are really impressive. Helie Lee is a plucky Korean American gal who has to put up with a lot of cultural conflicts and dangers. Through it all, she is vulnerable, sensitive, determined, strong, quick-thinking, courageous and ultimately full of love and devotion for her family. She is even witty. In the end, the reader comes away respecting Helie for pulling off such an courageous journey. I highly recommend this book for its overall quality, readability, and genuineness in revealing the power of a family's love to overcome divisions and scars that have haunted Korea for 50 years.	2002-05-10
US	51838149	R1PUODFBSG9XGL	0465024114	516590408	Finding Flow: The Psychology of Engagement with Everyday Life (Masterminds Series)	Books	2	55	72	N	N	over-general, trite and obvious	I write this review as one who was initially impressed with his first best-selling book, FLOW. Back then, I thought it was interesting, insightful, and even helpful to be reminded about what we already know: that we are most happy when we aren't worrying whether we're happy or not. But now almost a decade later I have become more ambivalent towards Mr. Csikszentmihalyi.<br />This \\"sequel\\" about \\"finding FLOW\\" seemed to acknowledge that the first book wasn't of much practical help or use. But unfortunately, he doesn't really offer any real steps to \\"finding\\" this elusive FLOW. Instead, he litters the book with the overly-general and obvious, like \\"To live means to experience-through doing, feeling, thinking.\\" Or this: \\"A person who grows up experiencing most of the day as neither important nor enjoyable is unlikely to find much meaning in the future.\\" Really! Or the trite and clichéd: \\"We can tell quite a lot about what Susan will experience just by the fact that she is human.\\" Duh. And his advice for workers to pay attention to the details is laughable: \\"a trivial job can turn into a memorable performance that leaves the world in a better shape than it was before.\\" If this were true, we wouldn't find Dilbert cartoons so darn funny.<br />Moreover, for a professor, his research doesn't seem to be all that rigorous; despite the jargon of words like \\"autoeletic\\" and his use of some graphs and pie charts, they seem very subjective and \\"un-scientific,\\" things you might read in the bottom left-hand corner of USA Today. Most unsettling is his constant use of famous scientists and brilliant, successful people like Nobel Prize winners as examples of people who are happy. Then to compare them with the Average Joe, in this case, \\"Rico,\\" a factory worker who tackles his job with all the zeal of an Olympic athlete, is a false comparison. I'd like to see the average educated reader of this book try to tackle his or her office job in that way and see how far it gets them.<br />OK,so I am disappointed by this book because it says nothing new, is overly general and obvious, and becomes aggravating to read after he makes the umpteenth comparison to Linus Pauling or some Poet Laureate and asks why we can't be happy utilizing the same kind of approach or work attitude. <br />I can agree with him on one thing, though. He mentions that the average American only works 30 hours a week, and not 40, because ten hours are spent daydreaming, talking, making lists, and other things. I just wasted two hours reading this book. Oh well, back to work now.	2001-08-03
US	51838149	R3TLJKOFQAGD9D	0877738807	557919738	Start Where You Are: A Guide to Compassionate Living	Books	3	79	110	N	N	start where you are...but bring a pen and a notebook	i've had this book for over a year now, and periodically peruse it whenever i feel spiritually listless (which is often). now some might argue that if i say that this book hasn't really helped me much, i'm missing the point. start where you are! stay with the discomfort! open your eyes and see! well, yeah, but i can't help but feel that in the end, all the listing of the numerous compassions and the tibetan terms and listing and labeling this and that gets so confusing that it won't be of much help unless you write it down and study 'em with the devotion of a true believer. it's just too much: different kinds of emotions, different kinds of reaction, in her other book, she lists 6 different kinds of loneliness. ach, my head hurts!<br />i'm not so wary of chodron as i am of other westerners who have joined the mystic east bandwagon in search of spiritual enlightenment, because she does seem to be practical. but still, for me the question is HOW to practice, not a bunch of half-obvious truths that i can agree with but can't apply. <br />i think we just need to sit and stop reading. i mean, how can you go through a day if you're thinking about labeling something as boddicitta or prajna or some other strange term??? might as well go back to the Catholic catechism and start memorizing the saints again. so i'm happy for all those who find it inspiring and helpful. i, too, turn to it every now and then to reaffirm that all is not lost. but still, i can't say that it is very helpful in the long-term.	2001-07-22
US	51838149	R3S87TW5DIU1LM	0060193395	744363528	Body for Life: 12 Weeks to Mental and Physical Strength	Books	5	15	21	N	N	from a fat slob's point of view	As I perused this book, I kept thinking to myself: Do I REALLY want to look like these guys? Actually, the answer is probably yes, but it all seemed a bit silly. Take, for e.g., the \\"Before/After\\" pics pasted on the inside of the cover and around the book in a neat little photo strip. They're amazing, but the men have laughably shaved the hair off their chest and belly and slathered Vaseline over themselves so they look as plastic as He-Man action figures. They all have perfect, dental teeth and blow-dry hair under better lighting. Open the book and the text has a simplistic, breezy, infomercial style with lots of \\"life-stories\\"-style of phrases that you can find in Reader's Digest. All the feel-good philosophy behind the inspirational stories scream \\"Oprah!\\" The people in the pics would probably say I'm jealous. Well, actually, they probably DO feel better than me. They'e certainly in better shape.<br />So sarcastic thoughts kept coming up as I flipped through the book, trying to find reasons to not like it. Sigh. But I hafta admit: it's a really good, solid book, one that is not bad to have even if you never lift a finger. The advice is practical, even insightful, and I was impressed with some of the ideas. While the inspirational stuff sometimes tends to be on the cheesy side, the author is so sincere and straightforward (for e.g., donating funds to the Make-A-Wish Foundation or offering his $200,000 Lamborghini Diablo as the reward in a competition), that you can't help but like him, even trust him. So buy this book. Why do I say this? Because in the end, despite my complaints, I'm still a fat slob and Bill Phillips is not.<br />By the way: The only thing is that I don't think I will do is repeat the cadence out loud of \\"I am building my Body-for-Life!\\" while lifting dumbbells. Sorry, but that's on par with the girls in Judy Blume's \\"Are You There God? It's Me Margaret\\" who chant, \\"We must-We must-Increase our bust!\\" Other than that, this is probably one of themost straightforward and practical books I've read on fitness. It's worth it.	2001-07-19
US	51838149	R114F5WQYIEUK1	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	3	4	4	N	N	plain indeed, ah reckon	There was this man named Haruf and he wrote in a terse style that reminded you of Hemingway or of Carver but then again not like Hemingway and Carver but with a long run-on style to reiterate the fact that this was a plain novel with a plain theme and plain people living out on the plain. And there were little epiphanies where people reckon this and that and that like a dead horse havin' its belly cut up and the profound feeling the kids have watching this dead horse with its belly cut up and some of the other scenes were touching and made you smile but never mind that you could skip whole pages of dialogue because quite frankly you know nothing happened but a this sparse, dry style with sentences that reminded you of Hemingway or Carver but then again not really Hemingway or Carver and oh well this was an OK book but if you're sick of this style then skip this book.	2001-07-10
US	51838149	RQS2JQ82CYC5N	0060198397	908669447	Over the Shoulder: A Novel of Intrigue	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Blown Away	This absolutely terrific novel totally subverted my expectations of what an &quot;Asian American&quot; or crime novel ought to be. It's engrossing, fast-paced and intriguing in ways that you won't expect. The crime format provides Chang an opportunity to explore race, class and family without being bogged down by the weight of those issues. And Chang fleshes out Allen's character and touches upon racial issues without ever derailing the fast-paced storyline. And yet, at the same time, this is NOT simply a crime novel, either. It's a blend of both--something really innovative and different.<br />Don't be put-off because Chang has the courage to move away from stock issues played out by other KA writers. While some people think that Chang Rae Lee is be the best KA writer out there, let it be said: Leonard Chang is BETTER than Chang Rae Lee. In fact, he's a better fiction writer than most of the Asian American writers out there as well. Beacuse he's a WRITER'S writer, i.e. he cares about his craft and not about selling out to mainstream tastes of what an Asian American novel should be. Of course, because he doesn't write about KAs whose mothers happen to be comfort women, intergenerational conflict or &quot;honor killings,&quot; Chang will be somewhat underrated and underappreciated by those who prefer sappy melodramas about Asian Americans. Which is a shame because he's one of the most talented and interesting writers to ever come out of Korean America. Read Over the Shoulder. It's truly an immensely enjoyable and exciting novel that will be sure to blow you away.	2001-02-07
US	51838149	R3IDHA3PO9FDLE	0684835339	160386834	GREAT BOOKS	Books	2	18	42	N	N	Great Books there are; unfortunately this is not one of them	OK, I think I can shoot my mouth off here since I attended Columbia University at the same time as Denby and was forced to take the same classes that he took. I give it one-star because I think the book is fluff and that you should read the texts themselves in context and not in a self-serving, self-congratulating work such as this. First of all, while I do agree that some of the works were great, the fact is a lot of us simply didn't read or understand most of them. Columbia is full of uptight, competitive students who went out and bought Cliff's Notes-type study aides to ensure they got an &quot;A&quot; in class rather than absorb anything substantive or meaningful. Secondly, I had two T.A.'s teaching the classes--one who nearly swooned when she quoted a passage from Thackeray--and they couldn't teach worth jack. I spent most of the time doodling and trying to make the time pass during those excruciatingly boring classes. I'm sure the 19-year old Denby felt the same way. Finally, we have to realize how much power Denby yields as a writer who can give the final say while nominally addressing their arguments. For e.g., he dismisses an African American student, a Comp Lit Prof and others who have legitimate complaints about the Core Curriculum by being able to reconstruct and present the dialogue and conversations from HIS point of view. That's part of the problem with CC inthe first place, isn't it? It's always the opinion of a select view that gets the most visibility and credence. For an insightful critique of the Western Canon, read Robert Scholes' &quot;The Rise and Fall of English.&quot;<br />While I do think much of the works of literature in the program are important and great, Denby's opinion and evaluation of them are still contrived, constructed opinions problematically dressed up as an argument for a &quot;Greatest Hits&quot; of Western Literature curriculum. As one of the many students who found the courses boring and uninspiring, his argument for institutionalizing a Western canon in colleges strikes me as humorous given my real-life experiences with it.	2000-12-01
US	51838149	R3SFKZL06J3PHQ	0915144948	75302384	On the Advantage and Disadvantage of History for Life (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	4	14	N	N	Recommended	A great primer on the problems of history and a great introduction to a brilliant mind.	2000-11-30
US	51838149	R2VM9RVZLO47JI	0375704868	595270144	The Accidental Asian: Notes of a Native Speaker	Books	1	16	19	N	N	Smells like Mean Spirit	An assimilated Liu takes it upon himself to speak about race and ethnicity to mainstream readers while he disavows any legitimacy to the Asian American political cause at the same time.  Basically, he claims that race doesn't matter while devoting an entire book about it. So I guess it does matter, but only to the world according to Liu. Meanwhile, a large Asian immigrant population that isn't as fortunate enough to have Liu's English skills are going to be &quot;represented&quot; by his oh-so-comforting &quot;riff&quot; on what the world ought to be. Oh well, Asians are too busy working their fingers to the bone to read this book anyway. In fact, they're providing an education for their kids to become just like Liu someday; hey, maybe someday their OWN kids can dismiss their struggles as well!  <br />While well-written and highly readable, it has about as much substance, style and integrity as a Clinton speech videotaped for a grand jury. I simply cannot agree with Liu's views. As someone who has worked with the immigrant community, I resent the subtle imposition of his opinions from the distance of his smug, comfy and privileged background. To be fair, I did think he was effective when writing about his father, his family, his personal experiences, etc. But his &quot;success&quot; by assimilation notions are deeply problematic and injurious to many Asian Americans by ultimately disregarding and dismissing their very real struggles.  While becoming a Clinton speechwriter or matriculating into Harvard Law School (as his bio makes a point of noting) may seem like proof positive that Liu has achieved a measure of &quot;success,&quot; it only convinced me that Liu is merely a clever brain with polished rhetoric. Take a look at the reality of immigrant lives and you'll find Liu's ideas to be pretty stale and whitewashed.	2000-11-30
US	51838149	RWEO2MFBDQMG2	0679776591	578664297	Fugitive Pieces: A Novel	Books	2	0	2	N	N	overrated	As many reviewers have already pointed out, Michaels is a wonderful poet, but not a great fiction writer. The descriptions overwhelm, but the plot is virtually non-existent. The only thing I have to add is that Micahels invests much of her energy in depicting a highly idealized world of epicures, scholars, intellectuals: they go for quaint strolls around the city, ruminate upon history and memory, talk about poetry, geography, jazz, coffee shops, and food even in the midst of war and trauma. The main character is a literary savant, and receives the classic, one-on-one mentor-apprentice type of education from Athos that you only read about in hagiographic literary biographies. He and others speak in implasuibly ponderous statements that are weighty and pretentious. Perhaps, given the tremendous gravity of the topic, Michaels intended to be reverent to the history/memory of the Holocaust; but the Leonard Cohen-esque emphasis on the life of the mind, of the somber poet wrapped in shrouds of sorrow, does not make for a compelling story. There are a few times where Michaels seems able to pull it off (e.g. the heart is the size of a handful of earth, says Athos), but on the whole I was bored and frustrated throughout much of the reading of this tedious book. A stronger plot and less emphasis on the deep, oh-so-profound world of pensive, reflective intellectuals engaged in sollipsistic self-musings about the mysteries of life would have made this a better book.	2000-11-29
US	51838149	R238WIMAXSARWE	0679776591	578664297	Fugitive Pieces: A Novel	Books	2	4	11	N	N	overrated	As many reviewers have already pointed out, Michaels is a wonderful poet, but not a great fiction writer. The descriptions overwhelm, but the plot is virtually non-existent. The only thing I have to add is that Micahels invests much of her energy in depicting a highly idealized world of epicures, scholars, intellectuals: they go for quaint strolls around the city, ruminate upon history and memory, talk about poetry, geography, jazz, coffee shops, and food even in the midst of war and trauma. The main character is a literary savant, and receives the classic, one-on-one mentor-apprentice type of education from Athos that you only read about in hagiographic literary biographies. He and others speak in implasuibly ponderous statements that are weighty and pretentious. Perhaps, given the tremendous gravity of the topic, Michaels intended to be reverent to the history/memory of the Holocaust; but the Leonard Cohen-esque emphasis on the life of the mind, of the somber poet wrapped in shrouds of sorrow, does not make for a compelling story. There are a few times where Michaels seems able to pull it off (e.g. the heart is the size of a handful of earth, says Athos), but on the whole I was bored and frustrated throughout much of the reading of this tedious book. A stronger plot and less emphasis on the deep, oh-so-profound world of pensive, reflective intellectuals engaged in sollipsistic self-musings about the mysteries of life would have made this a better book.	2000-11-29
US	51838149	RI7X3FTWTHAGC	0767900766	336167274	The Emperor's General	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Ha! Surprised I liked it so much	Seems to me that the people who would read this book are white, middle-class conservative men with some link to the military--sorry about the generalization if it seems unfair. Moreover, the book is written in that unsophisticated prose style that I usually associate with popular consumer fiction, not &quot;real&quot; literature. But I thoroughly enjoyed this work and was surprised at Webb's historical accuracy and addressing of themes in US-Japan relationships--unpleasant facts that have only been written about in recent scholarly books about collusive ties between the US and post-War Japan (cf. Dower's &quot;Embracing Defeat&quot; and the new Hirohito biography).  Well, seems like Webb and others in the US military are well aware of MacArthur's personal and political faults as well (or maybe just the Marines). Happened to run across an obituary in the New York Times of one of the US defense attorneys of the wrongfully indicted Japanese general, which verified every one of Webb's narrative details! Gen. MacArthur's character comes to life and his arrogance is inextricably linked to the way he established US military policy toward East Asia's Pacific Crescent, a restructuring of Japan's own WWII Economic Co-Prosperity Sphere imperialism, but this time American style. The prose is smoothly-paced and highly readable; I whipped through this book in no time. As someone who has no connection to the world of men like Webb (whom I assumed represents the military elite who served in Vietnam and came to public attention in the Reagan-era Iran-Contra scandal), I was not only pleasantly surprised, but extremely impressed. I think this is an engaging, intriguing piece of work. Webb should be commended for producing a fascinating narrative that will stimulate and satisfy the minds of both lay reader and history buff alike.	2000-11-29
US	51838149	R29N1G5C7ESXCZ	0300080840	170174560	The Rise and Fall of English: Reconstructing English as a Discipline	Books	5	10	18	N	N	Loved it	Tired of eggghead profs and \\"scholards\\" (scholar + dullard)? Does Barthes make you barf? Will you blow up your university libary if one more person mentions words like \\"discourse,\\" \\"interpellaton,\\" \\"the signified,\\" or \\"technologies of self\\"? Ah, then you must be in \\"grad skool\\"! My deepest condolences.<br />I found many of his insights to be refreshing and right on the mark. Some scholars will disagree with Scholes and criticize his strategies (that's why they're dull eggheads after all), but he identitifies a very real problem in English and humanities departments today (and academia in general). He attempts to address it in simple, highly readable prose--and with humor as well--while avoiding the jargon and the pretentiousness that plagues most scholary writing. I found myself staying up until the wee hours of the night to finish the book in one sitting. It was a wonderful respite for me during my first year in grad school, and it lifted my spirits considerably. As many of you already know, graduate school is an experience that basically chews you up and spits you out, destroying your self-esteem, dignity and health in the process. While it may not prevent you from throwing your Foucault and de Certeau books out the window, it may give you back your sanity--remember, it's not you, it's the system's power structure and its discursive effects!	2000-11-06
US	51838149	R1I7VPKO8VEEWL	1573228281	454004836	A Gesture Life: A Novel	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Not as good as his first	A Japanese/Korean war veteran haunted by memories of Korean comfort women; an immigrant trying to be a model minority; an affair with a white woman; an adopted Korean daughter. Hmmm. A bit too much to handle in one book. Lee was stronger when he stuck to the Asian American immigrant experience with the motif of spy in his first novel. He does a good job of writing about the excessive concern over formality, propriety and behavior (similar to Kazuo Ishiguro's _Remains of the Day_) in the protagonist's attempts to be a model citizen, but the other elements involving flashbacks of the war and the troubled adopted daughter seem extraneous to the plot. Overall, Lee writes as an American impersonating an Asian impersonating an American, but doesn't quite pull off a convincing portrait. I could see what he was getting at but the results are more miss than hit. Oh well...I can see why some are impressed with his &quot;quiet&quot; writing style, and there is much to commend about that alone. Still, not as compelling as I hoped it would be.	2000-10-30
US	51838149	R3N8V51MJ2HFLC	0385423446	508605258	Turning Japanese: Memoirs of a Sansei	Books	3	11	13	N	N	interesting	As an Asian American who has lived in Asia, I could certainly identify with some of Mura's insights. As for his writing, he is a poet, but also an intellectual, and so his insights do at times appear to be excessive self-brooding. While I don't dislike the book, I found myself having trouble agreeing with some of his conclusions. For one, Mura links problems with his sexuality with his racial identity. Fine. But then he links it with his parents' silence in the internment camps, a more tenuous and less convincing argument. After all, many Asian American men feel anger and resentment about emasculation in society, but why does Mura focus mainly on the internment camps and not on other factors?  But I'm nitpicking here. Mura is a progressive liberal intellectual who has come up with a well-written memoir. I must say that it did lose steam, however; after awhile I began to wonder if Mura spent most of his grant money going to bars and having intellectual dinner parties with his Japanese friends.<br />I appreciate Mura's brutal honesty. He admits his sexual frustrations and fetishes of even his white wife. At times, one might wonder why Mura feels compelled to be so revealing, but it becomes clear that it is because his pain as a racial minority has been so extreme. Interestingly, I sympathized with his parents, whom he describes as having been somewhat taken aback and hurt by his words and actions (he discusses this more in his next book). While I can understand why Mura felt he had to include the private details of his life, his parents maintain their stoic dignity. Whether you like him or not, ultimately, he writes about something few others are willing to write about. For that, this book should be given some credit.	2000-10-30
US	51838149	RNMXFAKT8OM9U	0140291946	615727611	House of the Winds (Penguin Readers Guide Inside)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A series of vignettes	This book is noteworthy because it is one of the few books &quot;about&quot; Korea that is not written in a &quot;fortune-cookie fiction&quot; mode; the passages are lyrical, fluid, and evocative. She writes more like James Joyce describing a Dublin childhood rather than a &quot;this-is-how-we-do-it-in-Korean&quot; cultural guidebook. No broken-English, Charlie Chan aphorisms here.<br />Yun describes life in Korea in the '50's and '60's in a series of vignettes; there isn't a single, linear plot that unfolds, but a series of &quot;snapshots&quot; taken from the author's memory (or so I presume). There is a definite sense of loss and mourning as well as nostalgia for the past now that the writer is in America; a sense that she wishes to recover the past by looking back across that chasm one takes once one crosses over to another land. In a sense, you never go back. &quot;Preserve your memories,&quot; she says. The real kicker in the story is at the end, when the narrator, in America, recounts her mother's life in very sad, beautiful hues and tones. <br />For anyone who would like to take a retrospective look back at a time and place in Korea that is slowly fading from the memories of the still-living, this is a good place to start.	2000-10-30
US	51838149	R3968VRMKEJY8K	0375409378	878672615	The Night My Mother Met Bruce Lee: Observations on Not Fitting In	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful book	Well, you have BOTH Ha Jin AND Arthur Golden praising it on the back cover--what can you expect? (I like one and not the other). While the cover made me think that this was going to be a &quot;wacky,&quot; irreverent account by a young, half-Chinese woman, the book is instead an extremely well-written, thought-provoking colletion of essays on ethnicity and identity. Rekdal is a poet, and it shows in her evocative descriptions, in her lyrical passages, in an effortlessly beautiful line rendered for the reader's benefit. Grappling with the vexatious issue of personal identity, Rekdal comes up with great insight and meaning into the problem without being narcisstic or excessively introspective; the book succeeds brilliantly wihtout offering any simple, pat conclusions. Though the essay's topics are somewhat disjointed--they go from America to Korea to China to childhood, etc--the disconnected structure seems to be part of the point: as the subtitle suggests, these are &quot;observations of not fitting in.&quot; I liked her juxtaposition of the uncanny, the frustrating, the disappointing things along with the beautiful, the personal, the &quot;mini-epiphanic&quot; aspects.<br />And yes, she is also very witty. The humor is very sharp. I found myself laughing hysterically at an Elvis reference and I normally don't find him amusing. Finally, as someone who also spent a year teaching high school students in a small city in Korea, I was delighted and amazed to read about experiences that I related to. I'm grateful for that alone, but it's a great book in all other aspect as well.	2000-10-25
US	51838149	R2ZMD37NW8244O	0375409378	878672615	The Night My Mother Met Bruce Lee: Observations on Not Fitting In	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A wonderful book	Well, you have BOTH Ha Jin AND Arthur Golden praising it on the back cover--what can you expect? (I like one and not the other). While the cover made me think that this was going to be a &quot;wacky,&quot; irreverent account by a young, half-Chinese woman, the book is instead an extremely well-written, thought-provoking colletion of essays. Rekdal is a poet, and it shows in her evocative descriptions, in her lyrical passages, in an effortlessly beautiful line. Rekdal pulls it off without being narcisstic or excessively introspective; the book succeeds brilliantly. Though the essay's topics are somewhat disjointed--they go from America to Korea to China to childhood, etc--the disconnected structure seems to be part of the point: as the subtitle suggests, these are &quot;observations on not fitting in.&quot; I liked her juxtaposition of the uncanny, the frustrating, the disappointing things along with the beautiful, the personal, the &quot;mini-epiphanic&quot; aspects.<br />And yes, she is also very witty. The humor is very sharp. I found myself laughing hysterically at an Elvis reference and I normally don't find him amusing. Finally, as someone who also spent a year in a small city in Korea, I was delighted that she related experiences that I shared myself when I taught high school students in South Korea.	2000-10-25
US	51838149	RO5Z0P1FOSRUT	0385496338	428029467	Ten Thousand Sorrows	Books	1	5	12	N	N	Ten Thousand Sorrows	Doubleday has publicly released a press statement that retracts the claim of a tradition of honor killings in Korea. And the Associated Press, Korean Quarterly and KoreAm Journal have all published articles debunking much of Kim's claims. But the damage is already done. They should be ashamed of themselves for publishing such a distorted and misleading book. Korea does have a strong patriarchial tradition, and it should be criticized and probed in an honest, thoughtful manner. But to make such a ridiculous claim of honor killings without the basic fact-checking by Doubleday is an insult to the entire country that amounts to slander.<br />Kim is obviously divorced from Korean culture, but the book would have you believe that this is the &quot;real&quot; Korea, a country trapped by &quot;Confucianism,&quot; &quot;bloodline,&quot; &quot;honor,&quot; &quot;tradition&quot; and in need of rescue from the more civilized and enlightened West. The entire thing is patently false just from the descriptions of her mother alone. I can only assume that the book is catered to voyeuristic viewers who enjoy reading about exotic cultures where bad things happen &quot;over there.&quot; And the writing style is just plain bad to boot.<br />Most people defending the book know little to nothing about Korea. But ask the overwhelming majority of Korean Americans or Korean experts and you can confirm for yourself. Don't be duped. Ask as many Koreans as you know whether her details make any sense. Don't just recite them; show them the book. The cultural packaging is what is most offensive and ridiculous, where Kim essentializes and reduces Korean society to a backwards, primitive &quot;culture&quot; that would accept the murder of women without prosecution. Show them the descriptions of her Korean village. Show them! Ask them whether a Korean woman's sole purpose in life was to produce male children, to perpetuate a cycle of &quot;mindless cruelty,&quot; to wait their entire lives for the mothers-in-law to die. Ask them if a Korean woman wouldn't know about the armistice that ended the Korean War and the division of her own country and would have to be told of these incredible events by an American GI several years AFTER the war has ended. Puh-leeze!<br />In the final scene, Kim espies a Korean family at a Korean restaurant in San Francisco. She longs to be part of that &quot;inviolate circle,&quot; to be accepted. This is an honest and genuine emotion. Then, a Korean girl walking out catches Kim's eye and bows to her. Tears springing to her eyes, Kim is overcome by a tremendous wave of grief and love. She explains: &quot;In Korea, the bow is everything.&quot; Yeah, right. While I understand the emotion and her desire to claim Korea for herself, statements like this are more a gesture for non-Korean, mainstream readers who need a comforting, assuring, Americanized &quot;stand-in&quot; such as Kim to grant permission to &quot;peek&quot; into the &quot;culture&quot; and to confirm their ideas about the East without really looking at it closely. <br />Doubleday's role in this is reprehensible. I'm disgusted with them for publishing such a blatantly Orientalist, distorted work that exploits &quot;ethnic suffering.&quot; And I'm dismayed that so many of you are actually reading it without knowing the truth about Korea.	2000-10-11
US	51838149	R3DV34E7C353VG	0786866470	768395268	When My Sister Was Cleopatra Moon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Recommended	Hip, glib, fast, and funny.  As a KA male, I was expecting NOT to like it, but I found myself laughing out loud.  A book about the Korean American experience during the '70s, the characters are very Americanized. But they experience loss, racism, and sadness just like everybody else. One note: although this novel is breezy with snappy dialogue, there are really poignant descriptions of her father. It's very moving, stirring to see her father's letters to the daughters--beautiful.	2000-10-10
US	51838149	R4WI0F7PC1I0V	080142867X	696721467	State and Society in Contemporary Korea	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A major contribution to Korean Studies	Although I am not a social scientist, this book offers well-written, insightful articles on contemporary Korea. In particular, Chapter One's \\"Political Cleavages in South Korea\\" by Jang Jip Choi is clear, concise and elegant, and a wonderfully accessible introduction to Korean history and politics. The other articles are also well-written. Highly recommended for East Asian scholars who do not specialize in Korea.	2000-05-09
US	51838149	R2K5LGFJ2BTDNN	0375406530	663303744	Waiting	Books	5	8	8	N	N	stunning	I stayed up until 3 am reading this novel.  When I was done, I got up and started cursing and shaking my head: I couldn't believe it.  It was so beautiful I wanted to cry.  The sustained and meditative style of _Waiting_ is quite different than his other works, which can be quite bleak.  But  this novel is utterly, utterly beautiful.  Haven't read a book this good  since Kazuo Ishiguro's _Remains of the Day_.	2000-05-09
US	51838149	R3OP9AG2S2LR0U	0452277175	999717966	Memories of My Ghost Brother	Books	5	11	11	N	N	powerful, moving	I don't know why I like this &quot;novel&quot;/memoir so much, but it is a terribly moving and poweful story.  Much of it is written in the deceptively simple prose of a child-narrator, though the older self &quot;looks back&quot; in reflective, lyrical passages that reminded me of  Hemingway.  I was at first put off by the first chapter: elements of  haunting, mysticism, a child narrator. . .uh oh, where are we going?  But  as the story rolls along, I found myself more and more immersed in the  story of a young, biracial child growing up near a US military base in  Seoul.  Descriptions of life at school, in the streets, in the GI camp were  engrossing, and Fenkl's refusal to transliterate and translate some Korean  words or expressions and not others was fascinating for me as a Korean  American.  The ethnographic folklore included here are always grounded in  the harsh reality of a dim bulb in a spare room, the humanized character of  a drunk, coarse uncle, and through all the traces of American culture that  have infiltrated Korea.  There are psychological and literal  &quot;displacements&quot; described here that have produced painful  cleavages in the family.  The personal impact of social and historical  realities are portrayed here in all their harshness, but this is absolutely  not a sentimental &quot;victim&quot; story of oppression.  I found myself  identifying with the child-narrator, absorbed by his story, and in the end,  powerfully moved.	2000-04-24
US	51838149	RRON1S3EFA7TD	0140263357	728659407	Comfort Woman	Books	1	16	26	N	N	ORIENTALIST MUMBO JUMBO	So much of Asian American feminist fiction writes from an American sensibility (i.e. the female protagonist/narrator is an Americanized Asian American) that it Orientalizes or exotices Asia as the primordial homeland, usually using the mother as a link to a mystical, ancient world.  Prof.  Sheng Mei-ma has called this &quot;ethnographic feminism.&quot; <br />Despite the fact that Keller has been prominently featured in the media and testifies that she has done &quot;research&quot; for this book, she obviously knws very little about Korea or shamanism.  One could say she exercises a creative license, but unfortunately, Keller only succeeds in offering a mishmash of witch-doctor mumbo-jumbo.  For eg, she conflates a comfort woman with a shaman (why? completely unbelievable given the social class realities of the time) and moreover portrays the immigrant mother's shamanism in a schizophrenic state of mental illness.  The mother speaks an offensive caricature of broken English that embarrasses the young protagonist.  Sloppy transliterations from Korean language and ridiculous scenes like the waving of a chicken over the head made me want to cringe.  The immigrant never has a valid subjectivity, but is always portrayed as mystical, exotic and &quot;other.&quot; There are moments of fine descriptive writing in some of the descriptions, but the overall teleological thread of the story--daughter reconciles with mother by understanding and coming to grips with the mystical homeland--is trite by now; much contemporary As Am fiction has now gone beyond this terrain already mapped out by Amy Tan.  Although I appreciate the fact that this book raises awareness about the comfort woman issue, the contrived, Orientalist rendering of the Korean woman/immigrant as schizophrenic outsider detracts too much attention away for me. This is NOT about Korea at all, but about a Korean American author trying to image and construct a Korea she knows very little about.  For a good KA novel, check out Susan Choi's _The Foreign Student_ instead.	2000-03-07
