US	51839559	RFJP84S48MELO	1876175702	541158628	The Motorcycle Diaries: Notes on a Latin American Journey	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	An epic tale of the making of a passionate revolutionary	\\"Motorcycle Diaries\\" fashions itself as a road trip buddy comedy. Ernesto Guevara  is an Argentinean medical student in 1952. Instead of finishing his last semester at school, he, along with his bio-chemist friend Alberto  climb on to a broken down Norton 500 motorcycle and tour South America. The trip is meant to free the human spirit within them, which in young person terms means to find as many women as they can. Only they learn much more about the way of the land than they probably expect too.  <br /> <br />They come across peasants and poverty stricken farmers muscled off of their land by the rich. They also experience such injustice firsthand as they are turned away for having no money. Seeing the harsh realities; no longer is Ernesto thinking of becoming the doctor his family and he wanted him to be. He is more confused and up in the air about the direction his life should take. As he says at the end of the film, \\"This story is not about heroic feats. It's about two lives running parallel for a while.\\" One life is becoming a doctor, while the other is becoming a freedom fighter.  <br /> <br />This book is not about a revolutionary or a doctor; instead it is a coming of age story about a complex young man finding his idealism. You see the seeds of change and the humanitarian good nature and think that maybe this guy could have been more than what he became.  <br /> <br />This story has a resemblance to the  \\"Epic of Gilgamesh\\" and \\"The Odyssey\\" but it is not a fiction; but a tale of a real journey. <br />	2005-09-13
US	51839559	R22QTHODPZA1UI	1844670252	684964165	A Sultan in Palermo (The Islam Quintet, Book Four)	Books	1	12	13	N	Y	A novel unbecoming of  "The Islam Quintet"	Taris Ali's quintet series is a telling response to anyone accusing muslims as having no culture and civilization.  The series is a sincere attempt by Tariq to convey the magnitude of the contribution made by muslims in the past 1400 years; which has so easily been forgotten.  It was the insightful writings of muslim scholars that inspired Europe to greater heights and helped it transgress towards the Renaissance. <br /> <br />Sultan in Palermo revisits the Middle Ages, this time in Sicily, an island conquered by the Aghlabids in the 10th century then reconqured by the Normans in 1092. It takes as its main characters two major historical figures, Sultan Rujeri of Siqillya - or, as he is otherwise known, King Roger II of Sicily, and his protg, Muhammad al-Idrisi, a cartographer.  The book is set at a time where the sultan is at the end of his life and is maneuvering through politics insecuring the throne for his future generations. In a cavalier compromise the sultan had accepted the demands of the barons to persecute General Phillip (sympathetic to the muslims) on trumped up treason. The equilibrium on the muslim-christian nexus gets shifted. A peaceful society so far; is embroiled in tension and is gripped with the anxiety of persecution.  In this atmosphere al-Idrisi seems torn between his affiliation with the king and his people.  <br /> <br />I felt that \\"The Sultan of Palermo\\" failed to meet the penetrating and encompassing story of the earlier three novels. The disturbing fact is that in the perverse environment; where destiny is at the cross roads.  Al-Idrisi was expected to be sagacious; exhibiting maturity; intellect and in-tune with his people. Instead he is a disdainful aphrodisiac enamored with the art of love than politics. On the eve of the execution of General Phillip; his gravest concern is whether to spend the night with his wife or his sister in law. There are more bedroom heroics than courtroom guile. <br />	2005-08-17
US	51839559	R3W9PM5WCPGZ8	0316172324	968642731	Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Innteresting read in the power of decision making	Blink is about rapid cognition, about the kind of thinking that happens in a blink of an eye. Making a decision within the first two seconds of looking-the glance that knows and interprets the fact in an instant.  Gladwell emphasizes the first two seconds, because in that instant conclusions that we reach are really powerful and really important and, occasionally, really good.  Unlike intuition, what goes on in the first two seconds is perfectly rational; it's just thinking that moves a little faster and operates a little more mysteriously than the kind of deliberate, conscious decision-making that we usually associate with thinking. <br /> <br /> <br />Drawing on cutting-edge neuroscience and psychology, he shows how the difference between good decision-making and bad has nothing to do with how much information we can process quickly, but on the few particular details on which we focus.  Gladwell reveals how we can become better decision makers--in our homes, our offices, and in everyday life. The result is a book that is surprising and transforming. Never again will you think about thinking the same way. <br /> <br /> <br />Gladwell, campaigns for snap judgments and mind reading with a gift for translating research into splendid storytelling. Building his case with scenes from a marriage, heart attack triage, speed dating, choking on the golf course, selling cars, and military maneuvers, he persuades readers to think small and focus on the meaning of \\"thin slices\\" of behavior. The key is to rely on our \\"adaptive unconscious\\"--a 24/7 mental valet--that provides us with instant and sophisticated information to warn of danger, read a stranger, or react to a new idea.  <br /> <br /> <br />The book is well rounded as it presents the limitations with rapid deductions. There are obvious caveats about leaping to conclusions as: marketers can manipulate our first impressions, high arousal moments make us \\"mind blind,\\" focusing on the wrong cue leaves us vulnerable to \\"theWarren Harding Effect\\" (i.e., voting for a handsome but hapless president). Then in explaining the Pepsi challenge he elaborates how people can be attracted to Pepsi (which is sweeter than coke) in taste tests. However if the entire drink is taken Coke is markedly more attractive to the same group. In a provocative chapter that exposes the \\"dark side of blink,\\" he illuminates the failure of rapid cognition in the tragic stakeout and murder of Amadou Diallo in the Bronx. He underlines studies about autism, facial reading and cardio uptick to urge training that enhances high-stakes decision-making. <br />	2005-07-24
US	51839559	R24MMDMFMDUY0	1400079179	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Perfect for history buffs; conspiracy theorists and puzzle lovers	While in Paris on business, Harvard symbologist Robert Langdon receives an urgent late-night phone call: the elderly curator of the Louvre has been murdered inside the museum. Near the body, police have found a baffling cipher. While working to solve the enigmatic riddle, Langdon is stunned to discover it leads to a trail of clues hidden in the works of Da Vinci--clues visible for all to see, yet ingeniously disguised by the painter.<br /><br />Langdon joins forces with a gifted French cryptologist, Sophie Neveu, and learns the late curator was involved in the Priory of Sion--an actual secret society whose members included Sir Isaac Newton, Botticelli, Victor Hugo, and Da Vinci, among others.<br /><br />In a breathless race through Paris, London, and beyond, Langdon and Neveu match wits with a faceless powerbroker who seems to anticipate their every move. Unless Langdon and Neveu can decipher the labyrinthine puzzle in time, the Priory's ancient secret--and an explosive historical truth--will be lost forever.<br /><br />The Da Vinci Code heralds the arrival of a new breed of lightning-paced, intelligent thriller... utterly unpredictable right up to its stunning conclusion.	2005-04-25
US	51839559	R1V7WKDFB4HSUA	0415149665	9853196	Jinnah, Pakistan and Islamic Identity: The Search for Saladin	Books	5	8	17	N	Y	Jinnahs Pakistan is as valid today as it was in '47.	I am indebted to Mr. Jinnah for the gift he gave us all in the form of a state where we can freely partake in the pleasures of life often denied to the muslims to the east. If it had not happened I would be reading Anandamath (a tale of Hindu lords massacring muslims).    Mr. Ahmed has accomplished a marvelous effort in the writings of Jinnah. He very clearly presents the general situation and tensions prevalent during the times; and the decisions that were made.	2005-01-30
US	51839559	R2YZSK8M2UCW7L	0465016154	406165084	The Mystery of Capital: Why Capitalism Triumphs in the West and Fails Everywhere Else	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A Pragmatic approach to the socio-economic issues	Outside the Western borders; capitalism is in crisis not because international globalization is failing but because developing nations have been unable to channel capitalism in their countries.  Most people in these nations view capitalism with skepticism.  To them it is a private apartheid system that benefits only the West and the elites of the developing countries.  The fact that more people throughout the world wear Nike shoes; flash Casio watches; drive Ford cars and dine at Mc Donalds; is not an indicator of capitalism. <br />The Issue:<BR>Latin Americans do not have to be reminded.  On at least four occasions since their independence from Spain in the 1820's, they have tried to become part of global capitalism and failed.  They restructured their debts; stabilized their economies by controlling inflation; liberalized trade; privatized government assets; undertook debt equity swaps and overhauled their tax systems.  At the consumer level they imported all sorts of American and European goods.  But their lack of success is in their misplaced directive.  Fact lifeblood of capitalism is placed in nothing but Capital. <br />The Resolution:<BR>Desoto has taken a very pragmatic approach to the problem; by taking both a historical approach as to how the West traveled the path of Capitalism and undertaking a detailed research in the extent of dead capital stagnant in the developing world.  He professes that just like the west in the early days; in the developing world there was a migration of people to cities during the industrialization. This migration created squatter colonies; and around them developed supporting economy.  Bureaucracy and painful property registration system (taking 14-17 years); prevents registration of property.  In essence creating dead capital;  in such a system nobody can identify who owns what; addresses cannot be verified; people cannot get credit or debits; resources (land assets) cannot be converted into money or securities, description ofassets are not standardized and cannot be easily compared; and rules of property law changes from neighborhood to neighborhood. By streamlining the registration of dead property lying outside the legal system eliminates all the issues above; and benefits the people by making credit/debit easily accessible to them, by taking loans with property as a security.<br />Facts:<BR>Desoto from his years of research of underground economies taken from a very varied group of countries (Haiti, Egypt, Philippines, Peru) has found some very startling facts about dead capital.<BR>In Egypt the Dead capital is 241,2 Billion, which is 55X foreign direct investment (FDI) up to 1996, 30X market value of Cairo Stock Exchange; 13X accumulated foreign reserves; 6X total savings in commercial banks in Egypt.  <BR>In Philippines the Dead capital is 132,9 Billion ; which is 14X total FDI; 7X total savings in commercial banks; 4X market value of Philippines Stock Exchange.<BR>In Peru the Dead capital is 74,2 Billion; which is 14X FDI up to 1995; 11X capital of the largest public enterprises in Peru; 8X total savings in commercial banks in Peru.	2004-04-02
US	51839559	RNSPE4VLUDEAE	047192587X	679540895	Testing Semiconductor Memories	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The bibel of memory test	Over 30% of today's designs implements embedded memories and continuously consumes more and more die area. While embedded memory presents significant system performance and cost reduction advantages, it brings its own testing issues. Test vector style tests are not suitable for verifying embedded memory arrays because it is too costly. This is because the time spent in the manufacturing tester grows exponentially as the embedded memory die area increases. Sometimes it is impossible to create a set of vectors that can detect all possible types of memory defect.<br />Implementing embedded memory built in self-test (BIST) can alleviate these problems. In simplistic terms, memory BIST is an on-chip utility that enables the execution of a proven set of algorithmic style verification tests directly on the memory array. These tests can be executed at the design's full operating frequency to prove the memory array operations and identify errors caused by silicon defects.<br />Embedded memories are the most dense components within a system-on-chip (SOC), accounting for up to 90% of its real estate.1 Memories also are the most sensitive to process defects, making it essential to thoroughly test them in the SOCs.<br />Because memories are used as test vehicles for monitoring the silicon process and improving its yield, extracting additional diagnostic data to determine the causes of failures now is required in the testing strategy. In addition to diagnosis, many embedded memories are designed with built-in redundancy, which provides spare rows and columns that can replace failing locations. Redundancy enables the manufacturer to repair a number of otherwise defective devices to ensure maximum production yield.<br />Characteristics of today's SOC designs include the following:<br />1. Typically more than 30 embedded memories on a chip.<br />2. Memories scattered around the device rather than concentrated in one location.<br />3. Different types and sizes of memories.<br />4. Memories doubly embedded inside embedded cores.<br />5. Test access to these memories from only a few chip I/O pins.<br />A deep-submicron test strategy will have to handle all of these memory issues.<br />These issues are being addressed by the use of built-in self-test (BIST). BIST is the methodology of choice for testing embedded memories within SOCs. It offers a simple and low-cost means to test for failures of embedded memories without significantly impacting device performance.<br />While it has been used primarily for production pass/fail testing, BIST can be extended to provide the diagnostic data required for process monitoring and repair. Although the area overhead required by the BIST circuitry is increased, designing the diagnostic circuitry into the BIST provides many advantages in terms of time for both setup and test.<br />This book will take you intensively through all the memory BIST algorithms and ways to test them.  I consider this as the bible for mbist testing.ies doubly embedded inside embedded cores.<BR>5. Test access to these memories from only a few chip I/O pins.  <br />A deep-submicron test strategy will have to handle all of these memory issues. <BR>These issues are being addressed by the use of built-in self-test (BIST). BIST is the methodology of choice for testing embedded memories within SOCs. It offers a simple and low-cost means to test for failures of embedded memories without significantly impacting device performance.  <br />While it has been used primarily for production pass/fail testing, BIST can be extended to provide the diagnostic data required for process monitoring and repair. Although the area overhead required by the BIST circuitry is increased, designing the diagnostic circuitry into the BIST provides many advantages in terms of time for both setup and test. <br />This book will take you intensively through all the memory BIST algorithms and ways to test them.  I consider this as the bible for mbist testing.	2004-03-02
US	51839559	R3QU29ZPQ59SUD	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A satirical social commentary	This Utopian/dystopian future offers soma and other carnal pleasures, while manipulating the people into mind-numbing dependence. Huxley explores the evils of a seemingly satisfied and successful society, because that stability is only derived from the loss of freedom and personal responsibility. Part of what has made this book so controversial is the very thing that has made it so successful. We want to believe that technology has the power to save us, but Huxley shows the dangers as well.<br />John claims the &quot;right to be unhappy.&quot; Mustapha says it's also &quot;the right to grow old and ugly and impotent; the right to have syphilis and cancer; the right to have too little to eat; the right to be lousy; the right to live in constant apprehension of what might happen tomorrow...&quot;<br />By getting rid of all of the most unpleasant things, the society also rid itself of many of the true pleasures in life. There's no real passion. Remembering Shakespeare, John says:<br />&quot;You got rid of them. Yes, that's just like you. Getting rid of everything unpleasant instead of learning to put up with it. Whether 'tis better in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, or to take arms against a sea of troubles and by opposing end them... But you don't do either.&quot;<br />These men have realized that fear and intimidation have only limited power; after all, these tactics simply build up resentment in the minds of the oppressed. Subconscious persuasion and mind-altering drugs, on the other hand, appear to have no side effects. Add to this the method of genetic engineering, and soon almost all &quot;pre-Ford&quot; problems have been wiped out permanently.<br />The caste system of this brave new world is equally ingenious. Free from the burdens and tensions of a capitalistic system which separates people into social classes by natural selection, this dictatorship government is only required to determine the correct number of Alphas, Betas, etc., all the way down the totem pole. There is no class warfare because greed, the basic ingredient of capitalism, has been eliminated. Even Deltas and Epsilons are content to do their manual labor. This contentment arises both from the genetic engineering and the extensive conditioning each individual goes through in childhood.<br />Freedom (as well as art and religion which are results of freedom) in this society has been sacrificed for what Mustapha calls happiness. Indeed almost all of Huxley's characters, save Bernard and John, are content to take their soma ration, go to the feelies (the superficial substitute for actual life), and live their mindless, grey lives. The overwhelming color throughout Brave New World is grey. Everything and everyone seems dull to the reader, except perhaps the Savage, who is the only bright color in the novel. This grey happiness is the ultimate goal of the World Controllers like Mustapha.<br />Yet Mustapha has incorrectly associated lack of pain with happiness. Only the Savage knows that true happiness comes from the knowledge that one has value. He alludes to this when he describes his childhood in the Reservation where the only time he was happy was after he had completed a project with his own two hands. This, not soma, gave him the self-confidence to find happiness. The Savage knows his own value is as an individual, not a member of a collective.<br />Other characters in Brave New World, however, have no concept of self-worth. This results in their inability to find the happiness known to the Savage and the rest of the pre-Ford world which lives in the Reservation. True happiness is a consequence of freedom, not slavery. No slave can experience happiness until he is free. Yes, any slave can experience the contentment of a full belly and a full supply of instant gratification, but this doesn't lead to happiness.<br />Bernard suffers throughout the book, being caught between both worlds. Although he has been conditioned to accept his servitude, he is constantly longing for freedom. He sees this freedom in the Savage, and envies him for possessing the inner happiness- genuine happiness- which Bernard's society outlaws. Huxley uses Bernard to exemplify this struggle between freedom and slavery. Huxley argues that a genuine, free life requires suffering and pain. Men without anguish are men without souls. Huxley's future describes a world without pain and a world without soul.t his servitude, he is constantly longing for freedom. He sees this freedom in the Savage, and envies him for possessing the inner happiness- genuine happiness- which Bernard's society outlaws. Huxley uses Bernard to exemplify this struggle between freedom and slavery. Huxley argues that a genuine, free life requires suffering and pain. Men without anguish are men without souls. Huxley's future describes a world without pain and a world without soul.	2004-02-27
US	51839559	R31PPMZXAFTURN	0804717117	615794550	The Epic of Gilgamesh	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A riviting tale about bravery honor and adventure	Gilgamesh is a Babylonian king, two-thirds god and one-third man. He is tyrannical and conceited. Enkidu is a hairy creature, half man and half animal, who lives in the steppe. Enkidu opens a trap set by a hunter, who reports this illicit activity to Gilgamesh. Gilgamesh sends a prostitute to put Enkidu to shame in front of the animals. The prostitute brings Enkidu to the city and \\"humanizes\\" him. Enkidu and Gilgamesh meet, fight, stalemate, and then befriend each other, \\"seeing each other in their eyes\\". Gilgamesh persuades Enkidu to travel with him and fight to the evil monster Humbaba in the tall cedar forest. They go, and Gilgamesh kills Humbaba, but Enkidu is wounded. A maddened goddess Ishtar sends a bull to kill Gilgamesh because he refused her proposal, and Enkidu saves Gilgamesh from the animal. <br />Enkidu's condition worsens. He prophesies that Gilgamesh's life and world is changed forever, and dies. Gilgamesh mourns and travels to seek Utnapishtim, the survivor of the universal flood, in the hopes that he will be able to bring Enkidu back to life. Gilgamesh is able to get past the Scorpion people at the gate of Mashu, he treads the dark Road of the Sun, and enters a valley. He lives for a while with a barmaid named Siduri on the coast, and she tries to persuade him to stay. He leaves her, however, and in a rage destroys the stone images that might have led him across the sea to Utnapishtim. Ultimately Urshanabi the boatman permits him to cross. Gilgamesh finds Utnapishtim and they become friends. Utnapishtim does not like immortality, and tells Gilgamesh about the flood. He later becomes annoyed at Gilgamesh's insistence on finding immortality for Enkidu, and sends him back without his friend. At the last minute, Utnapishtim is convinced by his wife to tell Gilgamesh of the immortality plant at the bottom of the sea. Gilgamesh finds it, but it pricks him as he grabs it. He places it on the shore while he bathes. Unfortunately, a serpent eats the precious plant while he is in the water. Gilgamesh returns to his city of Uruk, where all have forgotten who Enkidu was. Gilgamesh decides that he must abandon his own grief as well.<br />The tale of Gilgamesh is interesting because it addresses many of humanity's eternal questions, including the meaning of friendship and the desire to be immortal. It also reflects ancient history, religion, and culture	2004-02-22
US	51839559	R15VDBB6JYWX8Q	0375726276	872371639	Warrior Politics: Why Leadership Demands a Pagan Ethos	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A pragmatic reflection of our times	This is the second time I have undertaken reading this book and like before I am impressed with the potent observations Kaplan has placed in `Pagan Ethos'.  We live in very uncertain turmoil times and it is imperative that prudent decisions be made to retain the sensitive balance of stability.  America's expedition into Iraq and the tacit support for democracy in the Middle East has noble bearance; but the question remains will it really prevail stability or transgress the region in un-chartered chaos.  <br />Western policy makers believe that dictators can be defeated by merely replacing them.  Jacob Burchardt said \\"Like bad physicians, they thought to cure the disease by removing the symptoms; and fancied that if the tyrant were put to death, freedom would follow of itself\\".  In 1990s, Western government demanded elections throughout the developing world; often in places with low literacy rates; weak government institutions and raging ethnic disputes.  Dictators were replaced by elected prime ministers.  But because the dictators themselves were manifestations of bad social and economic development; their removal permitted the same uncivil practices to continue in democratic clothing, as for an example Pakistan and Cote d' Ivory where elected leaders stole vast amounts of money and played one ethnic group against the other.  By the end of 1990s the military in both the countries staged coups. which the local population greeted with demonstrable relief.  The democratic structures placed in these countries created weak government and open press, both of which have limited benefits for overall good will.  With the weak government from democracy, peace making will become increasingly difficult, as they would lack the structures of centralization of power.  Only strong rulers can justify the historic about-face necessary for peace; often with a compliant media and minimal opposition.  Without centralized powers, Anwar Sadat of Egypt and King Hussein of Jordan could notmake peace with Israel.  Today President General Pervaiz Musharraf has given peace overtures to India and has on occasion provided tacit support for recognition of Israel.  Neither of which would be possible under a weak unstable democratic regime.  The democratic and liberalization in places like Middle East will provide a mandate to the extremist forces that in near term will destabilize the region.  There is nothing more volatile and more in need of disciplined enlightened direction than the vast populations of underpaid, under employed and badly educated workers divided by ethnicity and belief.<br />Virtue is more complex than it seems. Because human rights are self-evident good, we believe by promoting them we are being virtuous.  But that is not always the case.  If the United States pressed for human rights in Jordan, King Hussein might have been weakened during his struggles for survival in 1970s and 1980s.  The same is true in Egypt; where a United States policy dominated completely by human rights concern would weaken President Hosni Mubarak; whose successor would likely have even less regard for human rights.  A point in example, Balochistan and North West Frontier province in Pakistan; where free and unhindered elections got the extremist right wing into the provincial government and overtime they dismantled the few prevailing human rights and freedom of expression.  For Machiavelli; virtue is the opposite of righteousness.  With the innocent harping on values; today's western leaders sound less like the Renaissance pragmatists and more like medieval clergymen; dividing the world between good and evil.	2004-02-20
US	51839559	R28XKVYTOECXY3	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Parody of our intolerant behavior	To Kill A Mockingbird is told in the first person by a six-year-old girl with the prose style of a well-educated adult. The book's setting is a small town in Alabama, and the action behind Scout's tale is her father's determination, as a lawyer, liberal, and honest man, to defend a Negro accused of raping a white girl.  The most important theme of To Kill a Mockingbird is the book's exploration of the moral nature of human beings-that is, whether people are essentially good or essentially evil. The novel approaches this question by dramatizing Scout's and Jem's transition from a perspective of childhood innocence, in which they assume that people are good because they have never seen evil, to a more adult perspective, in which they have confronted evil and must incorporate it into their understanding of the world. As a result of this portrayal of the transition from innocence to experience, one of the book's important subthemes involves the threat that hatred, prejudice, and ignorance pose to the innocent: people such as Tom Robinson and Boo Radley are not prepared for the evil that they encounter, and, as a result, they are destroyed. Even Jem is victimized to an extent by his discovery of the evil of racism during and after the trial. Whereas Scout is able to maintain her basic faith in human nature despite Tom's conviction, Jem's faith in justice and in humanity is badly damaged, and he retreats into a state of disillusionment.<br /> The moral voice of To Kill a Mockingbird is Atticus Finch, who has experienced and understood evil without losing his faith in the human capacity for goodness. Atticus understands that, rather than being simply creatures of good or creatures of evil, most people have both good and bad qualities. The important thing is to appreciate the good qualities and understand the bad qualities by treating others with sympathy and trying to see life from their perspective. He tries to teach this ultimate moral lesson to Jem and Scout to show them that it is possible to live with conscience without losing hope or becoming cynical. In this way, Atticus is able to admire Mrs. Dubose's  courage even while deploring her racism. Scout's progress as a character in the novel is defined by her gradual development toward understanding Atticus's lessons. There is a maturity in Scouts observation as she finds contradiction in Mrs. Faust's intolerable racist manners towards blacks, but utmost compassion towards Jews massacre by Hitler.	2004-02-10
US	51839559	R39FWF0W3L68HW	0805017224	775070185	The Complete Phantom of the Opera (Owl Books)	Books	4	8	18	N	N	Desire and Passionate	Christine, a young singer in the Paris Grand Opera, is loved by Raoul DeChagny. The employees are terrified by stories of a weird Phantom who is supposed to inhabit the sub-cellars under the opera house. Guided by a strange and commanding voice that she hears from the walls, Christine finally achieves success as a singer. Then the mysterious voice summons her and she finds its owner is a huge man wearing a mask. He takes her to his hiding place and demands her love in payment. Tearing off his mask, she finds a horrible and grotesque monster. Due to her pleading, he allows her to sing once more and breaking her promise, she manages to communicate with Raoul, who plans to save her. The monster, who is the Phantom, learns of the plan and again kidnaps her. Raoul, aided by Ledoux of the secret police, seeks to rescue her, but they are trapped in fiendish ways by the Phantom, who has been identified as an insane musician and magician. The Phantom finally captures them but the brother of Buquet who was murdered by the Phantom leads a mob to the hiding place. The phantom realizes that love cant be snatched but won; releases Christine to her true love Raoul. <br />This is an emotional moving read.	2004-01-26
US	51839559	R3LDHL6IPKDFPX	0471415138	357136031	Clausewitz on Strategy : Inspiration and Insight from a Master Strategist	Books	1	7	18	N	N	A shameful endeavor in quick profits	5 Stars for Clausewitz<BR>0 Stars for the authors<br />Impression on Clausewitz:<BR>Strategy has been defined as 'the employment of the battle as the means towards the attainment of the object of the war'. Properly speaking it has to do with nothing but the battle, but its theory must include in this consideration the instrument of this real activity -- the armed force -- in itself and in its principal relations, for the battle is fought by it, and shows its effects upon it in turn. It must be well acquainted with the battle itself as far as relates to its possible results, and those mental and moral powers which are the most important in the use of the same.<br />Strategy is the employment of the battle to gain the end of the war; it must therefore give an aim to the whole military action, which must be in accordance with the object of the war; in other words, strategy forms the plan of the war; and to this end it links together the series of acts which are to lead to the final decision, that is to say, it makes the plans for the separate campaigns and regulates the combats to be fought in each. As these are all things which to a great extent can only be determined on conjectures some of which turn out incorrect, while a number of other arrangements pertaining to details cannot be made at all beforehand, it follows, as a matter of course, that strategy must go with the army to the field in order to arrange particulars on the spot, and to make the modifications in the general plan which incessantly become necessary in war. Strategy can therefore never take its hand from the work for a moment.<br />That this, however, has not always been the view taken is evident from the former custom of keeping strategy in the cabinet and not with the army, a thing only allowable if the cabinet is so near to the army that it can be taken for the chief headquarters of the army.<br />Theory will therefore attend on strategy in the determination of its plans, or, as we may more properly say, it will throw a light on things in themselves, and on their relations to each other, and bring out prominently the little that there is of principle or rule.<br />If we recall to mind from the first chapter how many things of the highest importance war touches upon, we may conceive that a consideration of all requires a rare grasp of mind.<br />A prince or general who knows exactly how to organize his war according to his object and means, which does neither too little nor too much, gives by that the greatest proof of his genius. But the effects of this talent are exhibited not so much by the invention of new modes of action, which might strike the eye immediately, as in the successful final result of the whole. It is the exact fulfillment of silent suppositions, it is the noiseless harmony of the whole action which we should admire, and which only makes itself known in the total result.<br />The inquirer who, tracing back from the final result, does not perceive the signs of that harmony is one who is apt to seek for genius where it is not, and where it cannot be found.<br />The means and forms which strategy uses are in fact so extremely simple, so well known by their constant repetition that it only appears ridiculous to sound common sense when it hears critics so frequently speaking of them with high-flown emphasis. Turning a flank, which has been done a thousand times, is regarded here as a proof of the most brilliant genius, there as a proof of the most profound penetration, indeed even of the most comprehensive knowledge. Can there be in the book-world more absurd productions?<br />It is still more ridiculous if, in addition to this, we reflect that the same critic, in accordance with prevalent opinion, excludes all moral forces from theory, and will not allow it to be concerned with anything but the material forces, so that all must be confined to a few mathematical relations of equilibrium and preponderance, of time and space, and a few lines and angles. If it were nothing more than this, then out of such a miserable business there would not be a scientific problem for even a schoolboy.<br />But let us admit: there is no question here about scientific formulas and problems; the relations of material things are all very simple; the right comprehension of the moral forces which come into play is more difficult. Still, even in respect to them, it is only in the highest branches of strategy that moral complications and a great diversity of quantities and relations are to be looked for, only at that point where strategy<br />Impressions on the Authors:<BR>The authors should be banned from all literary circles and their works be renounced as a shameful endeavor in easy profits.  In this text they have voided Clausewitz rich text; by presenting the matter in a haphazard; confusing lacking form style and sense.	2004-01-22
US	51839559	R19YQ2EVT9YVPU	0226264211	218317724	Capitalism and Freedom: Fortieth Anniversary Edition	Books	4	11	41	N	Y	I am at disagreement on your opinions	Respectfully Dr. Friedman, you are a world known scholar and an intellect, and I lay claim to neither.  But nonetheless I find myself in disagreement to some of your opinions; perhaps a result from my limited knowledge.  In the first chapter you meticulously detail the direct relation between increased economic prosperity to greater personal freedom. This view certainly holds true to the western world; but a broader look into Asian countries show a contrary picture. At first United Arab Emirates (GNP per capita $20,000),<BR>Kuwait (GNP per capita $24,000), Singapore (GNP per capita $27,000) have strict restrictions on personal freedom and are ruled by an absolute monarch. The said countries have economic indicators comparable to the countries in the west as United States of America (GNP per capita $30,000), United Kingdom (GNP per capita $20,883) and Spain (GNP per capita $16,700). On the other spectrum India with an instilled democratic state for the last 50 years has its economic indicators comparable to a third world nation (GNP per capita $2140). <br />Further along the reading you profess the need for smaller governments; with lesser intrusion from the government into the workings of a free market. But I feel disheartened that even with the government interventions there have been cases of utmost corruption in the corporate arena e.g. Enron, Martha Stewart. In the same breath I feel that with minimal government intervention we would eliminate the spirit of a free market; as corporations like Microsoft and Intel would in a flash wipe out their smaller competitors and create a monopoly.  <br />In your suggestion for the elimination of minimal wages; are guarantees that the workers at the lower end of the scale are not left further in poverty. With no such barriers there would be a greater glut of cheap labor ready to work at lower wages. This creates an endemic of poverty and social/society ill-will. In addition I believe in the utter greed of capitalist who would pressurize the congress to allow more cheap labor for them to fatten their pockets. At present the economic divide is significant; I feel with the elimination of minimum wages would create a greater disparity.<br />The concept of providing parents with the vouchers is a great idea; at present being adapted by President Bush with the program \\"No child left behind\\"; but steps need to be ensured that the vouchers are only provided to lower income families.  As the system can be abused by kids already going to private schools getting subsides for their education.  <br />I find it difficult to comprehend your belief to unilaterally eliminate trade barriers. This gives a great edge to foreign competitors to move in their products. This would be comforting for the consumers; but placed at the expense of increased trade deficits. I believe the elimination of trade barriers not unilaterally but in a multilateral approach.	2004-01-15
US	51839559	R1CX9S28020HL5	1404320032	742051546	The Mystery of the Yellow Room	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	An intelligent plot	The plot by itself is very intriguing; an attempted murder has been committed; in a sealed room and the culprit has vanished without a trace.  Loroux keeps you on the hinge; by feeding the reader with tid-bits of information which keeps the curiosity and suspense elevated through out.  He does not reveal everything the detective is thinking all at once; but leaves the reader creating their own theory, based on all the clues that are collected. In the end all the knots are tied.  The novel is also about the rivalry between detective Frederick Larson and a young investigative journalist, Rouletabille. Larson finds a suspect who is put on trial, only to have him cleared by Rouletabille, who dramatically reveals the identity of the real murderer. The Mystery of the Yellow Room is a novel which consciously tries to outdo the traditional detective novel with classic intellectual conundrums.	2004-01-13
US	51839559	R3J5IPPG13QAAD	1740594568	759849602	Lonely Planet Yucatan (Lonely Planet Cancun, Cozumel & the Yucatan)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	helpful guide	This is a detailed well documented guide for a traveler to explore and better understand the region.  The guide has a list of all cities in the region and can easily get the tourist acquainted with the area. The introduction to the cities begins with a historical background; has an orientation and information section; followed by the tours of the city; places to stay; restaurants  and things to do.<br />My stay in the region was predominantly in Playa del Carmen; which is less crowded than Cancun and has the same to offer.  Its location is ideal as it is centrally located in proximity to Cozumel and all the Mayan sites in the region.  During my stay it was a very helpful guide.	2004-01-12
US	51839559	R3Z9MRRVE5ZYZ	0192893203	139889737	Logic: A Very Short Introduction	Books	1	21	40	N	Y	Waste of time	About the only positive statement I can make about this book is that it has a snappy, small format and a stylish design.  Mr. Priest seems to be in a great hurry to end the book; as he brushes and jumps from one topic to another without giving any serious time to explain anything.  Most of the concepts presented are quite elementary and anyone with a college degree would be aware of most of what is said. <br />So to sum it up; this is not a text to read if you're attempting to understand logic; and you wont learn anything new if you have read another introductory book on Logic.	2004-01-06
US	51839559	R3CB1QSBM8UA3V	078949194X	301408099	Cancun & The Yucatan (Eyewitness Top 10 Travel Guides)	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Reasonable reference but lacking in depth!	This is quite a convenient guide fits perfectly in a pocket and easy to carry around.  The book highlights the Yucatan region by listing the top 10 sights of all touristic cities in Yucatan. Besides it also lists the top 10 hotels, diving/snorkeling places, restauraunt etc. at the end.  What it offers in convenience; but it lacks in depth.  There is not much detail on any city; if prior reservations are not made or traveling on budget; it is best to stay away from this book.	2004-01-06
US	51839559	R38M2A19H7YOR2	0812967119	114213287	Hadji Murad (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Courageous Warrior	The action takes place in the middle of the 19th century. Then, as now, the Russian army was engaged in a major, and exhausting, offensive in the Caucasus, in the area now known as Chechnya. The hero, Hadji Murad is a Chechen war lord and freedom fighter, who wants to liberate his people from oppression by the Russians. But he first needs to defeat Imam Shamil a Chechen leader, who controls a part of the country, and has imprisoned Hadji Murad's wife and son. In the attempt to do this, he enlists the support of the Russians by defecting to them.  Murad informs the Russians that he won't be able to assist them unless he gets their support in getting his family safely back from Shamils grip. Who are (naturally) suspicious of him, but willing to use him as a way of extending their control of the area.  Some of them incline to do so, but others fear he might be just spying on them. The action drags on, with no resolution arrived at, until Murad makes his final dash. <br />The narrators eye become a film camera, meticulously recording the movement of characters, creating the terrain capturing sounds and images in motion, coaxing the reader into following each move around each bend.  The world Tolstoy describes has an air of brilliancy about it.  He has the ability to portray the most mundane scenes and ordinary gestures as if they have just been discovered by him.  In the text Hadji Murad moves from Chechen village to the Russian military posts, from ballroom and houses to the woods and open fields, all the scenes arise magically.  <br />On the while it was a fun read and very descriptive in details.	2004-01-06
US	51839559	R2BVNLUONOA0YO	0192853953	712376652	The Russian Revolution: A Very Short Introduction	Books	2	11	38	N	Y	Haphazard and un-organized	To understand the history and complexity of the Russian Revolution requires a book of over a 1000 pages.  This brief essay does no justice to the topic. I find that Stephan does not have a flow of both thought and prose.  There really is no continuity in his writing; throughout the book he jumps back and forth in timeline. It does get very confusing and frustrating to follow. I personally didn't learn anything new; than what I already knew about the subject. So I was really not pleased with this book.	2003-12-18
US	51839559	R1D9BVSV8IUS5C	0140280197	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	5	27	32	N	Y	Insightful	The book deals with each of the 48 laws with a very wide selection of parables, myths, anecdotes and stories from all over the world and form all times, illustrating the unchanging dynamics of power over the centuries. It features Chinese warlords, Roman and renaissance-Italian power-mongers, American and European conmen, famous courtiers from the French courts before the Revolution, and even musings by Thomas Edison. And of course, the book pays tribute to the power-writer of all time, Niccolo Machiavelli.<br />Learning the game of power requires a certain way of looking at situations and shift of perspective. To master the art takes effort, which requires certain basic skills, once mastered one is able to apply the laws of power.  The most fundamental of this skill is the ability to master your emotions.  An emotional response to a situation is the greatest barrier to power, a mistake that will cost you a lot more than any temporary satisfaction you may gain by expressing your feelings.  Emotions cloud reason, and if you cannot see the situation clearly, you cannot prepare for and respond to it with any degree of control.<BR>Anger is the most destructive of the emotional responses, for it clouds your vision the most.  It has a ripple effect that invariable makes situation less controllable and heightens your enemy's resolve.  Love and emotions are potentially destructive in that they blind you to the often self-serving interests of those whom you least suspect.<br />The writings by Greene are an essential guide to power play.  They can help one be astute, alert, manipulative, cunning and provide an ability to strategize with the end goal in mind.  A clear grasp and understanding of the situation is a must.  The rhythm of power requires an alteration of force and cunning.  Too much force creates a counter-reaction; too much cunning no matter how well thought makes it predictable.<br />The 48 Laws of Power is very cynical and depicts a world without mercy. The bookis written in a manner so as to inspire the reader to achieve great power with an iron fist by talking directly to the reader, much like a self-help tape. Despite this belligerent and unabating tone, and the fact that it takes over 500 pages to get through all the laws, it is very readable, very clear in its message and the laws in it are not to be easily refuted.	2003-12-02
US	51839559	R35RGCYBO9XQ06	0142001813	492038533	Homo Zapiens	Books	3	4	8	N	N	An abstract style	Victor exposes the disorder of his beloved country Russia with biting wit and black humor. In his latest dystopian novel, \\"Homo Zapiens,\\" Pelevin focuses on the world of Russian advertising, often with hilarious results.<br />Babylen Tatarsky, a sales assistant at a Moscow newsstand, stumbles onto a job as a copywriter in Yeltsin's Russia, where the shady, wealthy clients often get shot by the mafia before they can pay him for his work. The challenge of his new job is tailoring Western ads for a Russian market unaccustomed to the values they represent. The slogans crafted by Tatarsky (\\"DIAMONDS ARE NOT FOREVER! THE BROTHERS DEBIRSIAN FUNERAL PARLOUR\\" ).<BR>Looking for meaning in a country with a drunken president, daily assassinations of prominent social figures, a bloody conflict in Chechnya and a tightly controlled media oligarchy isn't easy, so Tatarsky turns to unconventional sources. In his search for guidance, he uses an Ouija board to channel the ghosts of Che Guevara and Dostoevski. Tatarsky comes to view reality as an illusion -- one as insubstantial as a television transmission.<br />Homo Zapiens is probably great fun for Russian readers, who know their realities and can appreciate the author's distortions. For American readers, though, the novel may seem a collection of stereotypes culled from American movies about contemporary Russia. On the whole the writing style is at times difficult to follow.	2003-10-31
US	51839559	R2ZTG6J56EC1TP	0415095336	246082145	Routledge Philosophy GuideBook to Locke on Government (Routledge Philosophy GuideBooks)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Explanatory and Indepth work on &quot;The Second Treatise&quot;	Routledge Guide book has taken efforts to concisely introduce its readers to works of John Locke. The text is intelligible to beginners and is an easy read.<br />The Second Treatise details the state of nature; the development of society; the contract between the government and its people and the right to rebellion.  The issue of rebellion has considerable interests especially to the residents of California with the event of the recall of the Governor Gray Davis. According to Locke if the government fails to enforce the law of nature; fails to further the common good of people; loses trust of people; and fails to act within the bounds of the law the people have the right to rebel. If the above conditions were met then the recall of the governor was a justifiable action by the people.<br />The Second Treatise has immense relevance to all democratic state as it has been stated by political scholars that it was one of the first all encompassing profound document; advocating for democracy. <br />This was an easy to understand read and the authors have done great justice to the works of John Locke. I highly encourage readers with an interest in John Locke to give this a chance.	2003-10-30
US	51839559	R2ZAXXZ2FU85UJ	0142002577	652192300	In the Name of Identity: Violence and the Need to Belong	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Identity crisis and its impact	Fate can best be described as, what fate is to man is what wind is to a sail. The wind cannot be controlled; it is unpredictable. A helmsman can take his boat to a disaster; while another can use the same wind and maneuver to a safe harbor. Everyone is given circumstances and situations (fate) and it is how one can overcome them and use them to be at an advantage. However the relationship between this environment and us are more in depth than it may seem; as at the core of this lies our identity. The arrangement of how aware and melded one is with the environment; surroundings and society; to the point of being integrated into it seamlessly is the image of a successful person. It is when our identity is in conflict is when one will seem to be on a path to disaster. Identity is the core of it; as Mallouf states that each one has a vertical identity that we inherit from our ancestors; culture; religion; upbringing and a horizontal identity that we inherit from our surroundings; society and environment. The two must be at harmony for any lapses of identity; for it is when our identity is at stake then one will be in a state of rebellion to get recognized. To state an example; Turkish migrants to Germany who are more fluent in German than their heritage language would be in direct conflict; while a American migrant to England would find the same norms in his new environment where he has a sense of acceptance and can identify himself with the masses. It seems that Karl Marx statement `It is not the survival of the fittest but the survival of the most adaptive' has a lot of relevance in our times.<br />Our times are marked by an absolute estate of bewilderment or a web of confusion.  The rapid pace of technological development, information dispersion and accessible transportation, has not shrunk the world but gotten cultures in proximity.  The interaction of cultures; the voices of the minorities may not be heard creating rebellion to prevent their identity to be forced into extinction. With the present trend of globalization, which too many is a camouflage, masquerade more like a Trojan horse concealing an attempt for domination of the western culture.  A means to impose on the whole world one language, one economic system, political and social system, one way of life one scale of values. At the heart of this conflict is our identity crises; many of the fellow beings see globalization not as a great enriching amalgam with advantages for all; but as an improvishment; a threat that each individual needs to fight against in order to preserve his own culture, identity and value.<br />This book attempts not is sociological but on a philosophical way the breath of ills in form of terrorism the world is facing. Amin being from the area has a clear grasp of the isolation and aloofness a significant portion of the world is facing from the decision making process of our times.  For the above said reasons it is a helpful guide in some way to understand us.	2003-09-26
US	51839559	R3G7E4EC7EN6OF	0879753374	994997736	The Second Treatise on Civil Government (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A reflection to the Declaration of Independence	The Second Treatise of Government provides Locke's theorizes the individual rights and involvement with the government; he categorizes them in two areas -- natural rights theory and social contract. 1.Natural state; rights which human beings are to have before government comes into being. 2.Social contact; when conditions in natural state are unsatisfactory, and there's need to develop society into functioning of central government. <br />Political Power and Natural state: He explains the need for civil government; by detailing life with the absence of civil government. This is the premature state of an entity; through this one can see the need and a role for a government structure.  He begins by defining political power; which is the right of making laws with penalties varying with the nature of transgression. The laws are maintained for the preservation of property; the enrichment of the community and its defense.<BR>He determines the need for civil government by expressing the state of society without a government.  To maintain harmony; there is a need to maintain equality; this is the state of nature. The chief end for the human species is survival; to attain it we need life, liberty, health and property. These are natural rights that we have in a state of nature before the introduction of civil government, and all people have these rights equally. <BR>The Natural State personifies a state of utopia; as it does not account for the realistic issues of violations of this natural state. There are no police, prosecutors or judges in the state of nature as these are all representatives of a government with full political power.  In addition to our other rights, we have the rights to enforce the law and judge on our own behalf. We may intervene in cases where our own interests are not directly under threat to help enforce the law of nature. Still, the person who is most likely to enforce the law under these circumstances is the person who has been wronged. The basic principle of justice is that the punishment should be proportionate to the crime. When victims are judging a crime; they likely to judge it of greater severity than an impartial judge.  As a result, there will be miscarriages of justice. <br />Slavery:  Is the state of being in the absolute or arbitrary power of another. On Locke's definition of slavery there is only one way to become a legitimate slave. In order to do so one must be an unjust aggressor defeated in war. The just victor then has the option to either kill the aggressor or enslave them. Locke tells us that the state of slavery is the continuation of the state of war between a lawful conqueror and a captive, in which the conqueror delays to take the life of the captive, and instead makes use of him; only in this condition is slavery legitimate.  Illegitimate slavery is the state in which someone possesses absolute power over someone else without just cause. Locke holds that it is this illegitimate state of slavery which absolute monarchs wish to impose upon their subjects. <br />Property:  In evolution of the state of nature to civil government. It is the account of nature and origin of property, which leads to the explanation of why civil government replaces the state of nature. In discussing the origin of private property Locke begins by noting that God gave the earth to all men.  Locke holds that we have a property in our own person. And the labor of our body and the work of our hands properly belong to us. The state of evolution for property is hunter/gatherer to agriculture to introduction of money; each development provides more flexibility and removes limitations of trade; creating economical inequality. The inequality may cause quarrels which increases the numbers of violations of the law. <BR>The institution of civil government comes about because of the difficulties in the state of nature. Rather clearly, on Locke's view, these difficulties increase with the increase in population, the decreasein available resources, and the advent of economic inequality which results from the introduction of money. These conditions lead to an increase in the number of violations of the natural law. Thus, the inconvenience of having to redress such grievances on one's own behalf become much more acute, since there are significantly more of them. These lead to the introduction of civil government. <br />Social Contract Theory:  Locke's argument for the right of the majority is the theoretical ground for the distinction between duty to society and duty to government. When the designated government dissolves, men remain obligated to society acting through majority rule. It is entirely possible for the majority to confer the rule of the community on a king, oligarchs or an assembly. Thus, the social contract is not linked to democracy; still a government must perform the legitimate function of government. <br />Civil Government: The aim of such a legitimate civil government is to preserve, so far as possible, the rights to life, liberty, health and property of its citizens, and to prosecute and punish those of its citizens who violate the rights of others and to pursue the public good even where this may conflict with the rights of individuals. In doing this it provides something unavailable in the state of nature, an impartial judge to determine the severity of the crime, and to set a punishment proportionate to the crime.	2003-08-28
US	51839559	R3RX1D3Z5TJ0T0	0671708635	783953685	The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Principles for a successful life	There is a gap or space between stimulus and response and the key to both our growth and happiness is how we use the space.  Many of us myself included have gone through life without realizing how our actions or words may be perceived by others. We are witness to a fact that many of us work hard but it is a few who proceed to the top. There is a very fine line difference between the two categories; and by sheer awareness one can overcome the slack.  Stephan has taken a jab at this by outlining seven essential to a happy successful life.<br />1. Proactive<BR>2. Begin with the end in mind<BR>3. Prioritize<BR>4. Think win/win<BR>5. seek first to understand then be understood <BR>6. Synergize<BR>7. Health and fitness<br />I could ramble on each point summarizing partially the jist but the wisdom and broader context would be lost. What I can say is that it will take a short span to read this book, but the benefit if followed closely will be for a lifetime.	2003-08-28
US	51839559	RZ6GWTRL60P7S	1843910071	777387744	The Last Day of a Condemned Man (Hesperus Classics)	Books	4	6	10	N	N	A statement on death penalty	Victor Hugo `The last days of a condemned man'; more than a distressing tale, is a social comment at the atrocity of the death penalty.  He brings a moralistic debate of the authority of government to take life of its citizen. Through the first narrative of the main character whose name and crime is unknown, he describes the torturous moments the captive undergoes up until his time of death.  Through these moments he transforms the death penalty from a means of punishment to a state sponsored torture.  In the novel he places a sublime message that it is mans tasks to save lives; and its gods to take life.  The death penalty becomes a challenge by man to god's authority.	2003-08-22
US	51839559	RC5KIWQPD76CC	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	political statement	Nineteen Eighty-Four is not and never has been just a year. Nor is the world portrayed by George Orwell in Nineteen Eighty-Four a place or even merely a set of political or social circumstances. Rather, Nineteen Eighty-Four is a state of mind, a way of being, an atmosphere in which the dark side of our nature lives and turns all around it darker still. It is a time or place which we create when we turn away from the light that is within us, within each individual self, to the empty darkness of group will and psychology; of \\"massmindedness\\". Thus do we create for ourselves to live in the world of Nineteen Eighty-Four.<br />Orwell's \\"fiction\\" of a world in which, but for a lingering echo, individuality had all but passed into extinction, could have been set in any time or place where \\"massmindedness\\" is paramount and where the individual exists merely to serve the group. Throughout history, most religions have preached, most governments have practiced and most societies have been organized around such \\"massmindedness\\". It is only the calendar which might confuse and comfort us, which might convince us that Nineteen Eighty-Four was merely a gruesome story about a time and place that never was nor could ever be. But nothing is further from the truth. And the simple truth is that Nineteen Eighty-Four is NOW.<br />In Nineteen Eighty-Four, there are no heroes, except as an idea, an ideal may be said to be a hero. All of its characters are exceedingly human, and this is what makes Nineteen Eighty-Four both timely and timeless, both powerful and profoundly pathetic. Nineteen Eighty-Four is often upsetting, sometimes disheartening, but, when its main lesson is learned, never depressing. It is fundamentally a story of hope, of a truth which can be discovered (although too late for all concerned); a truth which can be seen by us and taken as not only our ideal, but as the practical guide by which, to a greater or lesser extent, we can avoid the very pitfalls which consumed Winston and Julia and O'Brien and Big Brother, and liberate ourselves from the tyrany and ultimate destructiveness of the group and its massminded stranglehold on our minds, our hearts and our souls.<br />Nineteen Eighty-Four is a simple story of faith wrongly placed. Winston Smith, its main character, searches to escape the suffocating and oppressive world manipulated by and for a ruling group, The Party. He believes that he is seeking a political, a social solution with which he can combat, can destroy the evil of group-think and the \\"massmindedness\\" in which he lives. Instead, he finds the most exquisitely human, individual \\"weapon\\" with which to pursue his salvation: love. But, as we humans are too often prone to do, Winston overlooks what is simple and obvious, what is at hand, and, even as do those he disdains, he puts his faith in another group, The Brotherhood. (It is not for Winston to realize that his answer lies in the idea and practice of \\"brotherhood\\", rather than in the imaginary purity of \\"The Brotherhood\\".) In the end, Winston is betrayed not by his enemies, but, in a real sense, by himself, by his failure to see the worth in the object of his own worship; the individual and the emotional life with which he or she can find their own peace and presence, even in a world gone apparently mad.<br />Winston, with his male oriented solution, seeks one group to combat another group, while Julia, a woman, brings the possibility of true salvation to him (and them) in the idea and practice of individual love. Julia knows the truth, and what is worthwhile, but Winston (the very name of the great male war leader of Orwell's recent past) plunges on ahead, seeking a \\"political\\", \\"social\\" solution (not unlike the many male \\"leaders\\" of all time past). This may be a small (or maybe the greatest) point of the book.<br />It is an instructive book; there is a good deal of What Every Young Person Ought to Know - not in 1984, but 1949. Mr Orwell's analysis of the lust for power is one of the less satisfactory contributions to our enlightenment, and he also leaves us in doubt as to how much he means by poor Smith's \\"faith\\" in the people (or \\"proles\\"). Smith is rather let down by the 1984 Common Man, and yet there is some insinuation that common humanity remains to be extinguished.	2003-08-15
US	51839559	R1I0Y2UIOFSABT	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Trotsky vs. Stalin	Animal Farm allegorizes the rise to power of the dictator Joseph Stalin. In the novella, the overthrow of the human oppressor Mr. Jones by a democratic coalition of animals quickly gives way to the consolidation of power among the pigs. Much like the Soviet intelligentsia, the pigs establish themselves as the ruling class in the new society.<br />The struggle for preeminence between Trotsky and Stalin emerges in the rivalry between the pigs Snowball and Napoleon; the idealistic but politically less powerful figure (Trotsky and Snowball) is expelled from the revolutionary state by the malicious and violent usurper of power (Stalin and Napoleon). The purges and show trials with which Stalin eliminated his enemies and solidified his political base find expression in Animal Farm as the false confessions and executions of animals whom Napoleon distrusts following the collapse of the windmill. Stalin's tyrannical rule and eventual abandonment of the founding principles of the Russian Revolution are represented by the pigs' turn to violent government and the adoption of human traits and behaviors, the trappings of their original oppressors.  The novella critiques the violence of the Stalinist regime against the human beings it ruled, and also points to Soviet communism's violence against human logic, language, and ideals.<br />Animal Farm illustrates how classes that are initially unified in the face of a common enemy, as the animals are against the humans, may become internally divided when that enemy is eliminated. The expulsion of Mr. Jones creates a power vacuum, and it is only so long before the next oppressor assumes totalitarian control. The natural division between intellectual and physical labor quickly comes to express itself as a new set of class divisions, with the &quot;brainworkers&quot; (as the pigs claim to be) using their superior intelligence to manipulate society to their own benefit.<br />One of the novel's most impressive accomplishments is its portrayal not just of the figures in power but also of the oppressed people themselves. Animal Farm is not told from the perspective of any particular character, though occasionally it does slip into Clover's consciousness. Rather, the story is told from the perspective of the common animals as a whole. Gullible, loyal, and hardworking, these animals give Orwell a chance to sketch how situations of oppression arise not only from the motives and tactics of the oppressors but also from the navet&eacute; of the oppressed, who are not necessarily in a position to be better educated or informed. When presented with a dilemma, Boxer prefers not to puzzle out the implications of various possible actions but instead to repeat to himself, &quot;Napoleon is always right.&quot; Animal Farm demonstrates how the inability or unwillingness to question authority condemns the working class to suffer the full extent of the ruling class's oppression.<br />In Animal Farm, the pigs gradually twist and distort a rhetoric of socialist revolution to justify their behavior and to keep the other animals in the dark. The animals heartily embrace Old Major's visionary ideal of socialism, but after Old Major dies, the pigs gradually twist the meaning of his words. As a result, the other animals seem unable to oppose the pigs without also opposing the ideals of the Rebellion. By the end of the novella, after Squealer's repeated reconfigurations of the Seven Commandments in order to decriminalize the pigs' treacheries, the main principle of the farm can be openly stated as &quot;ALL ANIMALS ARE EQUAL, BUT SOME ANIMALS ARE MORE EQUAL THAN OTHERS.&quot; This outrageous abuse of the word &quot;equal&quot; and of the ideal of equality in general typifies the pigs' method, which becomes increasingly audacious as the novel progresses. Orwell's sophisticated exposure of this abuse of language remains one of the most compelling and enduring features of Animal Farm, worthy of close study even after we have decoded its allegorical characters and events.its allegorical characters and events.	2003-07-10
US	51839559	R3UJ7DB62OYTK5	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Relevance to our times	\\"Fahrenheit 451\\" a metaphor on the freedom of speech. It is not in literary terms that knowledge can be controlled by burning books; there are other ways to accomplish that. As the world is full of people; running with lit matches.  Ray Bradbury is basing his attack on every editor; censor; lobbyist; government that see themselves as the caretaker of knowledge and literature; and they control by shackle the words of an author who dare to speak out.<br />The question is very relevant to present times. The news is splattered with stories of doctored intelligence documents; on the bases of which dreaded events occurred.	2003-07-09
US	51839559	R236R3YXHMHR47	0618219196	513328313	The Seven Sins of Memory: How the Mind Forgets and Remembers	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Memory fallout	My undertaking of \\"The Seven sins of Memory\\" was more of an intellectual curiosity than for a scientific research.  In this endeavor David Schacter made me more aware of the workings of memory. His work is divided into eight chapters; the first seven dedicated to a specific lacking which he calls sin and the eight to the virtues and vices of memory.<br />Transience: A sin of loosing memory over time.  It may be a vice if one forgets information at a crucial time; but it can work as a gift, for remembering every event with vivid detail would clutter the thinking process.  To prevent loosing key data Schacter suggests using visual mnemonics to elaborate on information they wish to remember.<br />Absent Mindedness: A sin committed when we are devoting our mental resources to more important things like wrestling with a personal dilemma or pre-occupied with an urgent task.  Insufficient attention paid at the time of encoding is an important contributor to absent-mindedness.<br />Blocking: the phrase \\"It is at the tip of my tongue\\" a key indicator to this sin. Information that has not been encountered recently is susceptible to blocking. Names are especially susceptible to be blocked. Encountering a person activates both the conceptual and lexical representation for that person and this strengthens their interconnection.  If we don't see a person for some time the link is weakened.  Name blocking is more common than objects, as objects can be described in multiple levels for e.g., Honda, Accord, Sedan, car automobile, vehicle etc. <br />Misattribution: a sense of dj vu. A strong sense of general familiarity, together with an absence of specific recollections, adds up to a lethal recipe for misattribution.<br />Suggestibility: Relates to an individuals tendency to incorporate misleading information from external sources, other people, sources, media, pictures into personal re-collections.  Emotional stress, combined with social pressure and suggestion, could distract memory to the point at which people falsely believe they had committed a crime.<br />Bias: refers to influences of our present knowledge, belief and feeling on new experiences or memories of them.<br />Persistence: is strongly linked with our emotional lives the relationship between emotion and memory are key. Emotionally charged incidents are better remembered than non-emotional events. Hence these events are remembered and persist over time.<br />On the whole it was easy read. One does not need a medical or psychology degree to understand the message. I liked the fact that Schacter has included numerous experiments and examples to explain his theories.	2003-05-28
US	51839559	R4SJYH8E1XGMP	0967673763	414994066	3: Princess Sultana's Circle (Princess Trilogy)	Books	3	8	17	N	N	Pricess Sultanas circle	My first impression from this writing is that it is more of a fiction than a reality. As there are many parts of this story that seem contradictory and do not make sense. Whether this text is fiction or fantasy is debatable; but what is certain is the known truth of the utter disregard and violations of women's rights in the Middle East.  From having met and spoken with a few friends the confessions are much the same; their subjection to being a secondary class citizens. In many cases animals have more rights than the women there; the preceding statement may sound very insensitive; for which I apologize. It is something that we should expect from a closed society where all issues are buried in the hearts of people. On the whole I found it an entertaining read as it opens ones eyes to the conditions faced there.	2003-05-27
US	51839559	R1OYZGEC53Y9QW	087975558X	971265870	Beyond Good and Evil (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A very frustrating read	Beyond Good and Evil from the start is a book concerning moral philosophy.  The title leads the prospective reader to believe that Nietzsche is dealing essentially with ethical issues, but the scope of the text is much broader, encompassing reflections on religion, and current affairs.<br />Beyond Good and Evil opens with a section on the `Prejudices of Philosophers', in this he under takes a critique of the philosophical traditions.  Unlike previous philosophers, Nietzsche does not select an issue or notion and analyze it, in the process distinguishing his views from those of the previous writers and erecting a body of concepts that form a system of thought. Instead he calls into question the very basis of philosophizing. His targets are philosophers themselves.  He claims that philosophers merely pose as persons seeking the truth.<br />Nietzsche considers religion as `neurosis', it involves an unnatural self-denial and sacrifice.  He is not unaware of the advantages that religion brought to human society, even as it has debases human nature.  He believes it has helped create a variable social order.  By demanding we love each other.  However his attitude towards religion is that it represents a stage in human development that must be over come.<br />Beyond Good and Evil is not an easy task to read. I admit that there are parts of this I I had trouble understanding and often it was a frustrating read.	2003-05-27
US	51839559	R2CN3NIBMMR8IL	0679642811	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	4	9	14	N	N	A poignant reality	The Crisis of Islam is a poignant criticism of the realities faced by the lands of Islam. The Islamic civilization just a few centuries ago was threatening the existence of Europe; now appear as a tame hibernating mouse. <br />The apparent clash of the two civilizations (west and Islam) has roots in centuries of mistrust and misunderstanding. Presently the west, have developed a matured approach with an outlook for the preservation of their security, freedom and economy. The people in the region of Islam eye the west with a level of mistrust, and a perception that the west final objective of occupation of their lands. This mistrust is not subdued by the West imperialism of region during the World Wars and unquestioned support for Israel; a state against which they suffered a humiliating defeat in the late 60s. The west to attain their outlook has created stooges with unsupported democracy or dictators, which fuels a further malice by the people. They see the rulers as shadow of the western rule creating an outright cry for and anti-west sentiments. Hence a vicious cycle has emerged to almost a revolt. <br />What is wrong? The society faces significant ills democracy; lack of human rights abuses; lack of freedom of speech and expression, corruption. Can these ills cause the lack of development, the entire Middle East GDP equates to 1/4th of the GDP of Spain. China, Hong Kong, Singapore that suffers from similar social ills is more developed. The basic cause of the ills I feel is education and lack of focus. A country like Saudi Arabia with its immense wealth has not been able to create 1 university that is to the caliber of Harvard. <br />What is wrong?. The interference of the west in their political systems their advocacy for democracy; equality and human rights. Agreed these are essential for a flourishing society; but they forget that their political system took centuries to develop the initial beginnings of which is traced to the French Revolution. In contrast the middle eastern countries have only 50 years understood the concept of nations. Historically the systems prevalent in the region were a very hierarchy approach; the people need to develop their own governing systems instead of being scolded by the west at every international forum. <br />What is wrong?. Fanaticism and anti-west sentiments are resonance from the economic and literacy deprivation of the region. The few right wing groups are able to market their extremist views to the populace on a hope of a better system. Without true grass root development; I believe there will be minimal achievement in eradicating terrorism. For an employed man with hope of success will not pick up a gun to make a point. <br />I thought this book was somewhat harsh but true to the spirit of  Crisis of Islam; I have read other writings from Bernard Lewis and find him to be a partial scholar in the region.	2003-04-22
US	51839559	RUPRPIL6IM5Q9	0393008479	328023412	Five Lectures on Psycho-Analysis (The Standard Edition)  (Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud)	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Lectures on repression; its analysis and relation to erotism	In this study Freud delves into the studies of psycho-analysis and prepares a prognosis that stipulate his observations.  He confesses that this series of lecture are not the entire studies of psycho-analysis but provide just a glimpse into the subject.<br />In the Study of  Hysteria: hysterical patients have been noted to suffer from prior reminiscences. Their symptoms are residues and mnemonic symbols of particular traumatic experiences. Not only do the patient remember the painful experiences of the remote past; but they still cling to them emotionally; they cannot free themselves of the past and for its sake they neglect what is real and immediate.  The fixation of this mental life to pathogenic traumas is one of the most significant and practically important characteristics of neurosis.  Typically in the pathogenic situations; the patient is emotionally overwhelmed and is obliged to suppress a powerful instead of allowing its discharge in the appropriate signs of emotions, words or actions. One is driven to assume that the illness occurred; because the affects generated in the pathogenic situations had their normal outlet blocked and the essence of the illness lay in the fact that  these `strangulated' affects were then put to an abnormal use. In short they remained a permanent burden upon the patient's mental life and a source of constant excitation for it.<br />Freud disagrees with Pierre Janet's thesis that hysterical patients; are inherently incapable of holding together the municipality of mental process into a unity; arises the tendency of mental dissociation.  Janet in his experiments showed that in hypnosis the lapses of the supposed lost memories could be brought back.  On the contrary Freud suggests that forgotten memories were not lost.  They were in the patient's possession and were ready to emerge in association to what was still known by him; but there was some force that prevented them from becoming conscious and compelled them to remain unconscious.  The force that was maintaining this the pathological condition became apparent in the form of resistance on the part of the patient.<br />What Freud has found out about pathogenic complexes and repressed wishful impulses of neurotic traces back the symptoms of the patients' illness with really surprising regularity to impression from their erotic life.  Even before puberty extremely energetic repression's of certain instincts have been effected under the influence of education, and mental forces such as shame, disgust and morality have been setup, which like watchmen, maintain these repressions.  So that when at puberty the high tide of sexual demands is reached, it is met by these mental reactive or resistant structures like dam, and make it impossible for it to reactivate the instincts that have undergone repression.	2003-03-31
US	51839559	RO2XZKNYC850C	0006157629	583301746	4:50 From Paddington	Books	1	12	29	N	N	Not much of detective work	What Mrs. McGillicuddy in fact saw, as the American title says, while riding the 4:50 train from Paddington to the West, was a murder being committed in a passing train on the neighboring track. At first, the only person who believes her is her friend Miss Marple; as Miss Marple's investigation proceeds, the police become involved. The action centers around Rutherford Hall, the home of the Crackenthorpe family. Miss Marple is growing more frail, and has to enlist the help of her grandnephew David, who works for the railways, as well as the Lucy Eylesbarrow, who poses as a maid in the Crackenthorpe house and her protg Inspector Dermot Craddock. <br />Personally I found the solution more of an intuition and guess work than detective work. The story tends to drag on unnecessarily; and magically in the last chapter Miss Marple has a hunch and the mystery is solved. Miss Marple could have just as well have called in an oracle or a psychic and solved this mystery. An extreme disappointment.	2003-03-18
US	51839559	R30S9HJ3LV5MUA	0312979479	493632041	And Then There Were None	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Interesting plot	Each of the ten guests are invited by U.N. Owen to spend a weekend at Indian Island which is located one mile off the coast of Devon. None of the guests know anything about U.N. Owen but they take the offer anyway. When everyone arrives at the island, U.N. Owen is no where to be found. No one is on the island except Mr. and Mrs. Rogers which are the guests butlers (they are included as the ten guests). Anyway, each of the ten guests spend a little time to get to know one another, and get settled into their rooms. And in each of the ten bedrooms a framed poem hangs on the wall entitled Ten Little Indians. It says:<br />Ten little Indian boys went out to dine;<br />One choked his little self and then there were nine.<br />Nine little Indian boys sat up very late;<br />One overslept himself and then there were eight.<br />Eight little Indian boys traveling in Devon;<br />One said hed stay there and then there were seven.<br />Seven little Indian boys chopping up sticks;<br />One chopped himself in halves and then there were six.<br />Six little Indian boys playing with a hive;<br />A bumblebee stung one and then there were five.<br />Five little Indian boys going in for law;<br />One got in Chancery and then there were four<br />Four little Indian boys going out to sea;<br />A red herring swallowed one and then there were three.<br />Three little Indian boys walking in the Zoo;<br />A big bear hugged one and then there were two.<br />Two little Indian boys sitting in the sun;<br />One got frizzled up and then there was one.<br />One little Indian boy left all alone;<br />He went and hanged himself and then there were none.<br />This is pretty much how the entire story goes. Each of the visitors die off one by one (each dying in a way somehow related to the poem) until there are none. After the first death occurs, all the guests prepare to leave on the boat which is supposed to come each morning to deliver food and other goods, but the boat comes once (to bring all the visitors to the Island) and never comes back again. From the very first night all the guests arrive, strange things start to occur. First, they hear a gramophone that accuses each of the guests of committing murder (which for some of the guests is a surprise) and then someone actually dies the first night. At first, everyone thinks the people die from committing suicide, but later they realize thats not the case. Someone (one of the guests) is indeed the murderer killing all the houseguests, one by one. And the horrible thing is that there is no chance of escaping the Island because the boat will never return. Who is the murderer killing all of the house guests? Will anyone on Indian Island make it out alive?ll the visitors to the Island) and never comes back again. From the very first night all the guests arrive, strange things start to occur. First, they hear a gramophone that accuses each of the guests of committing murder (which for some of the guests is a surprise) and then someone actually dies the first night. At first, everyone thinks the people die from committing suicide, but later they realize thats not the case. Someone (one of the guests) is indeed the murderer killing all the houseguests, one by one. And the horrible thing is that there is no chance of escaping the Island because the boat will never return. Who is the murderer killing all of the house guests? Will anyone on Indian Island make it out alive?	2003-03-17
US	51839559	RAWS7G4CRADD3	0792392701	428405691	The Boundary-Scan Handbook	Books	4	8	15	N	N	Informatinal guide to IEEE1149.1	Since the mid-1970s, the structural testing of the loaded printed circuit boards (PCBs) has relied very heavily on the use of the so-called in-circuit \\"bed-of-nails\\" technique. This method of testing makes use of a fixture containing a bed-of-nails to access individual devices on the board through test lands laid into the copper interconnect, or other convenient contact points. Testing then proceeds in two phases: the power-off tests followed by power-on tests. Power-off tests check the integrity of the physical contact between nail and the on-board access point.  They then carry out open and shorts tests based on impedance measurements.  Power-on tests apply stimulus to a chosen device on a board, with an accompanying measurement of the response from that device.  Other devices that are electrically connected to the device-under-test (DUT) are usually placed into a safe state (a process called \\"guarding\\").  In this way, the tester is able to check the presence, orientation, and bonding of the DUT in place of the board.<br />Fundamentally, the in-circuit bed-of-nails technique relies on physical access to all devices on a board.  Such was the technique in the mid-1980s when a group of concerned test engineers got together to examine the problem and its solutions.  The method of solution was based on the concept of a serial shift register around the boundary of the device - hence the name \\"boundary scan\\".  <br />Principles of Boundary Scan<BR>Each primary input signal and primary output signal is supplemented with a multi-purpose memory element called a boundary-scan cell. Cells on device primary inputs are referred to as \\"input cells\\"; cells on the primary output are referred to as \\"output cells\\". The input and outputs is relative to the core logic of the device.  The collection of the boundary cells is configured into a parallel-in, parallel-out shift register. A parallel load operation, called a \\"capture\\" operation, causes signal values on device input pins to beloaded into input cells and, signal values passing from the core logic to the device output pins to be loaded into output cells.  A parallel unload operation called an \\"update\\" operation causes signal values already present in the output scan cells to be passes out through the device output pins.  Signal values already present in the input scan cells will be passed into the core logic.  <br />Data can also be shifted around the shift register, in serial mode, starting from a dedicated device input called TDI and terminating at a dedicated device output pin called TDO. The test clock TCK, is fed in via another dedicated device input pin and the mode of operation is controlled by a dedicated TMS serial control signal. At the device level, the boundary scan elements contribute nothing to the functionality of the core logic.  In fact, the boundary scan path is independent of the function of the device.  On board the four; boundary scan devices are connected from one to the next in a serial format. The TDI input to the board is connected to the TDI input of the first device; the TDO output of the first device is connected to the TDI input of the next device; and so forth; creating a global scan path terminating at the TDO connecter output. TCK is connected in parallel to each device, TMS the control pin works similarly.<br />In this way, particular tests can be applied to the device interconnects via the global scan path by loading the stimulus into the appropriate device output scan cells via the edge connecter TDI (shift-in operation), applying the stimulus (update operation), capturing the responses at the device input scan cells (capture operation), and shifting the response values out to the edge connector TDO (shift-out operation).  Essentially the boundary scan cells can be thought of as the \\"virtual nail\\". <br />There are four modes to be aware of normal, update, capture, and serial shift. During normal mode, data_in is passed straight through to Data_out. Duringupdate mode, the content of the output register is passed through the Data_out.  During capture mode, the Data_in signal is routed to the shift register and the value is captured by the next ClockDr state.  During shift mode, the scan_out of the register flip flop is passed through to the scan_in of the next via a hard wired path.	2003-03-13
US	51839559	R1324CGTQHUC09	0425174727	41460816	Poirot Investigates (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	3	3	8	N	N	14 cases	The colorful Belgian detective with the waxed mustache and the egg-shaped head uses his little gray cells to solve 14 of his most baffling cases. It is an interesting read; but none of the crimes were proven beyond a reasonable doubt	2003-03-13
US	51839559	R1DJJC6CCCYDQH	0375726276	872371639	Warrior Politics: Why Leadership Demands a Pagan Ethos	Books	3	45	48	N	N	political ethics and moraility	Anyone wishing to see what is to be must consider what has been; all the things of this world in every era have their counterparts in ancient times<BR>- Machiavelli<br />In Warrior Politics, Kaplan explores the wisdom of the ages for answers for today's leaders. While the modern world may seem more complex and dangerous than ever before, Kaplan writes from a deeper historical perspective to reveal how little things actually change. Indeed, as Kaplan shows us, we can look to history's most influential thinkers, who would have understood and known how to navigate today's dangerous political waters. <BR><BR>Drawing on the work of Sun Tzu, Thucydides, Machiavelli, Hobbes, among others, Kaplan argues that in a world of unstable states and an uncertain future, it is increasingly imperative to wrest from the past what we need to arm ourselves for the road ahead<br />Kaplan says about Western foreign policy pretty much what one wag once said of Queen Victoria: we have pursued goodness to the point of self-indulgence. The result has too often been bloody chaos. Take East Timor, for example. Before the UN insisted on conducting an independence referendum in the region, two things were clear. First, the people would vote for independence from Indonesia. Second, Indonesian partisans would exact revenge violently, unless a foreign security force was placed on the ground to keep the peace. The UN, or rather its members, would not provide such a force, but the do-gooders of the world nonetheless insisted on the international norm of self-determination. The result was disaster.<br />Particularly since the end of the Cold War, the West in general and the U.S. in particular have been guilty of many such exercises of catastrophic good intentions. We punished military governments in places like Pakistan and Nigeria because they were not democracies, though we knew those countries could unravel if civilians took over. We imposed economic sanctions on nations with imperfect human rightsrecords, even though we needed their help in combating forces that were lethally disposed toward us. Often enough, such policies have been driven by nothing more than the irresponsible harping of the press. We could not have continued to conduct foreign policy like that forever. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, we haven't been. Warrior Politics does not directly discuss those attacks, but it does <br />The \\"warrior ethos\\" that Kaplan endorses takes something from each of them: Churchill's animal spirits, Thucydides' caution against arrogance, Machiavelli's injunction to \\"anxious foresight,\\" Hobbes' assessment of man as a dangerous predator, and the willingness of Malthus to consider that history need not tend toward the increase of human happiness. Inspired in part by an unpublished essay by Michael Lind on the \\"honor paradigm\\" in international relations, Kaplan says that the wise statesman of the twenty-first century should be guided by something rather like the code duello.<br />In civil society the state protects us, but in lawless regions we must look to self-help, or to strong protectors. The safety of the weak, in fact, depends on the willingness of the strong to use violence on their behalf. In such an environment, the strong dare not suffer insult, lest their credibility diminish and so invite further attacks against them and their clients. There are limits to violence, however. The strong act from self-interest, but only to the point dictated by necessity. To use more force or cruelty than the occasion demands provokes one's enemies to unite in self-defense.<br />Kaplan imagines a world in which conventional military conflict is rare but continues through \\"asymmetrical\\" means. Terror and assassination will become, he thinks, the preferred methods of attack, not by the weak, but by the ambitious. The leaders of the West, and particularly the United States, must be prepared to function in a world in which democratic mass armies no longer ensure security. Future wars \\"will feature warriors on one side, motivated by grievance and rapine, and an aristocracy of statesmen, motivated, perhaps, by ancient virtue.\\"<br />The role of the United States in all this is unique. While not quite a world Leviathan, it is clearly a planetary hegemon. It does not have the luxury that Great Britain had after the Second World War of handing its place in the world over to a compatible power. If anyone is going to embed human rights and the rule of law in the world system, it has to be us. As Kaplan puts it, \\"Global institutions are an outgrowth of Western power, not a replacement for it.\\" At least on a military level, that power lies almost exclusively with the United States.<BR>Kaplan suggests that the world is moving to a greater level of institutional unity. He dwells on an analogy between modernity and the Warring States Period in China. That era resulted, after three appalling centuries, in the Han Dynasty at the end of the third century b.c. Kaplan characterizes the dynasty as a loose system of \\"governance\\" for the newly unified but highly diverse Chinese world. Inevitably, he also makes the analogy between the United States and Rome; the point of departure is the frequently made comparison between the Second Punic War and World War II.<br />Warrior Politics does not propose a formal system of ethics, not even an ethics of statecraft. Still, while describing an ethos is not quite the same as elaborating an ethics, we may note that the ethical systems that come down to us from the ancient pagans have little to do with the \\"ancient pagan ethos\\" of international relations that Kaplan submits for our approval. The eminently pagan Epicureanism and Stoicism were very much philosophies of self-cultivation, not blueprints for empire-building.	2003-03-13
US	51839559	R27UC9VNPUAF5T	0425173755	126736904	Murder on the Orient Express (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A true thriller	There never is a dull moment in Agatha Cristi's mystery novels; and certainly \\"Murder on the Orient Express\\" is no exception.  On his way to Paris famed detective Hercule Poirot has made reservations on the famous Orient Express.  Amongst the assortment of varied people; there is an American passenger who holds the distinction of having found dead in his compartment. The thirteen travellers each having the comfort of an alibi at the time of the murder.  Methodically detective Poirot continues his investigation; noting every detail along the way. Interestingly enough he makes the shocking; extremely improbable revelation to the identity of the murderer	2003-02-25
US	51839559	R3GFE66NRVFJQ4	1840845228	726115131	Essential Dali	Books	4	0	2	N	N	The Essentials of Dali	Dali is to surrealism what Picasso is to abstract; Kirsten Bradbury has presented a fair collection of Dalis famous work. However I was quite dissapointed that she didn't include the all famous \\"Swans reflecting Elephants\\" and \\"Gala Contemplating  the Mediterranean sea which at twenty meters becomes the portrait of Abraham Lincon\\".  Dali is most certainly the all time genius in depicting his art for his time and time to come.	2003-02-25
US	51839559	R2K5LS7V2IV4RD	0060516054	433958284	What Went Wrong?: The Clash Between Islam and Modernity in the Middle East	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Death of a civilization	In a news clip covering the Iraq crisis; I read a statement by President of Egypt Hosni Mubarak; which is a sad but true statement of the realities of the Islamic world. The president said; \\"The Muslim nations will be fooling themselves if they believe that Iraq war can be averted by their efforts. The power to wage war and the power to peace lies in the west\\".  It is this dismal state of events that transcribe the middle east; at some period in history the Islamic civilization were a threat to the existence of Europe. At present the same region is shadowed by the will of the west. I have sensed that there appears a great urgency in the moderate intellect of the region to put forth a study to understand \\"What went wrong and why they are in a state of despondency\\". <br />Bernard Lewis observes that the initial wave of modernizers in the early 19th century focused on military, economic and political. It was a sham modernity; as it resulted in defeats on all fronts; they area from these developments got humiliating military defeat; corrupt economy and tyrannical rule. The same state of events persist till today; they deprived development by giving lucrative contracts to foreigners instead of instilling the passion for learning in their own regions. The countries in the region can wrongfully lay blame to western imperialism; the consequences of World Wars; Turks blaming the stagnation of their civilization to the Arabs; and Arabs blaming their deprivation from the Turk rule. The question arises do these arguments have weight; the answer NO. These arguments provide a lazy means to avoid self blame; we at present are witnessing the rapid growth of Singapore, Hong Kong, Korea, Israel, Japan, China; these regions were occupied just like the Islamic lands were during colonism. <br />Blame Islam?. There have been many arguments put forth that Islam is the cause of the decline; if this was so then during the Middle Ages; the major centers of civilization, progress and discoveries emerged from this region.  Bernard Lewis brings forth an interesting question; \\"What have the Muslims done to Islam?. It is apparent that in the Muslim nations there is ample evidence of lack of freedom in speech, in liberty, in pursuit of thought, in expression of ideas. Any breach from the norms is stated as an enemy of Islam; an infidel. To support my case I refer to Abdus Salam nominated for the Nobel Peace prize in physics; was denied representation by the Government of Pakistan on account of his being a Qadiani (sect of Islam regarded as heretics by the government).<br />I would highly suggest anyone trying to answer the Question \\"What went wrong\\" read this book	2003-02-20
US	51839559	RQLTE4HXPX9CZ	0440204887	988703853	Illusions: The Adventures of a Reluctant Messiah	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A Guide to life	Bach's : Illusions the adventures of  a reluctant Messiah, could easily have been a self help prophecy. Through out the book by symbolism and bizarre events; Illusions has an underlying tone of self confidence and self belief. I believe in a surreal manner he is preaching his audience to have faith in ones self rather than look outwards for a Messiah to answer all the intricacies of life.  To provide justice to this theme he early on states \\"Within each of us lies the power of our consent to health and to the sickness, to riches and to poverty, to freedom and to slavery. It is we who control these and not another\\".	2003-02-20
US	51839559	R2D0NGLC428Q7A	0300097603	41990114	Pakistan: The Eye of the Storm	Books	4	15	23	N	N	A Good analysis on Pakistan	From humble beginning Pakistan came to existence in 1947, for the first 55 years of its independence it was internationally regarded as an obscure muslim state and a pesky irritant neighbor to India. Only recently after September, the prevalent perception has not changed; but only with an addition that Pakistan is a frontline ally for the fight against terrorism. It is this event that caused a great desire for west to gain understanding of the region. The fight for Pakistan came from the people under the leadership of Muhammad Ali Jinnah; a dynamic savvy intellect and statesmen who placed the need for an independent muslim nation to the British colonizers. I claim Jinnah as dynamic savvy intellect not from a feeling of reverence; but more from the following two facts. Jinnah is the only leader who carved a nation peacefully without firing a bullet; also Jinnah is the only statesman to have created a nation without getting arrested. Interestingly Jinnah is an Oxford law graduate, who campaigned for Pakistan by applying British laws and customs against the British rulers and emerging with his objective.<br />At its inception Pakistan was faced with the following issues:<br />1. Defense.<br />2. Kashmir.<br />3. Economy<br />4. Distance between East and West Pakistan.<br />5. Domestic divisions.<br />6. Immigrants from India.<br />Defense and Kashmir are synonymous to the politics there; since its inception the state has felt threatened by India; lacking the strategic depth the government went all out to create a meaningful defense mechanism with its meager resources. This threat evolved the foreign policy of being a countering agent to India. Pakistan is analogous to a small puppy which to compensate its size barks at every threat. The defense of Pakistan is in a very complex way tied to the Kashmir issue; unsettled over the last 55 years. India with having more resources was able to close its differences and began a pre-partition diplomatic negotiations to gain the state of Kashmir, while Jinnah with an air of confidence would state that \\"Kashmir will fall in our lap\\" were caught off guard. This cause of contention still exists even after having fought three wars.<br />The integrity of Pakistan was also threatened by the distance between the East and West; causing a central government nightmare. After the creation the East Pakistan was ethically divided into Sindhi, Pukhtoon, Punjabi and each group was more keen on self-autonomy than join the nation. This over time had caused considerable dissention, especially since the muslim immigrants from India were more educated and were able to fill the void of the beau racy vacated by the British. The locals treated them with utmost suspicion and without a political clout were unable to forward their views as debate in the assembly houses. This lead to a division along ethnic lines.<br />Taking into perspective the lack of resources and structure prevalent at independence; Pakistan has come a long way but still further development has to be done. It still faces from a sense of insecurity from India and at present there is an irritant factor of fundamentalism.mir, while Jinnah with an air of confidence would state that \\"Kashmir will fall in our lap\\" were caught off guard. This cause of contention still exists even after having fought three wars. <br />The integrity of Pakistan was also threatened by the distance between the East and West; causing a central government nightmare. After the creation the East Pakistan was ethically divided into Sindhi, Pukhtoon, Punjabi and each group was more keen on self-autonomy than join the nation. This over time had caused considerable dissention, especially since the muslim immigrants from India were more educated and were able to fill the void of the beau racy vacated by the British. The locals treated them with utmost suspicion and without a political clout were unable to forward their views as debate in the assembly houses. This lead to a division along ethnic lines. <br />Taking into perspective the lack of resources and structure prevalent at independence; Pakistan has come a long way but still further development has to be done. It still faces from a sense of insecurity from India and at present there is an irritant factor of fundamentalism.	2003-01-30
US	51839559	RBZCU740BYYU2	0452010713	652873235	Strategy: Second Revised Edition (Meridian)	Books	5	12	19	N	N	An authority on War and Strategy	Adjust your end to your means.<br />Clear sight and cool calculation should prevail. Do not bite off more than you can chew. Keep a clear sense of what is possible. Face facts while preserving faith. Confidence will be of no avail if the troops are run down.<br />Keep your object always in mind, while adapting your plan to circumstances<br />Recognize that alternatives exist but make sure they all bear on the object. Weigh the feasibility of attaining an objective against its contribution to the attainment of the end in mind.<br />Choose the line (or course) of least expectation.<br />Put yourself in your opposition's shoes and try to see what course of action he will see as least probable and thus not try to forestall.<br />Exploit the line of least resistance -- so long as it can lead you to any objective that would contribute to your underlying object.<br />Seize on opportunity -- but not any opportunity. Tactically, this refers to following up on success; strategically, it refers to the management and deployment of your reserves.<br />Take a line of operation which offers alternative objectives.<br />Choose a single course of action that could have several objectives; do not let your actions reveal your objectives. This puts your opponent on the horns of a dilemma. It introduces uncertainty regarding that which is to be guarded against.<br />Ensure that both plans and dispositions are flexible -- adaptable to circumstances.<br />Include contingencies or next steps -- for success as well as failure. Organize and deploy your resources in ways that facilitate adaptation to either.<br />Do not throw your weight into a stroke whilst your opponent is on guard -- whilst he is well placed to parry or evade it.<br />Unless your opponent is much inferior, do not attack until he has been disorganized and demoralized. Psychological warfare precedes physical warfare. Similarly, physical warfare can be psychological in nature.<br />Do not renew an attack along the same line (or in the same form) after it has once failed.<br />If at first you don't succeed, give up. Your reinforcements will likely be matched by the enemy. Moreover, successfully repulsing you the first time will morally strengthen him for the second.e same form) after it has once failed.<BR>If at first you don't succeed, give up. Your reinforcements will likely be matched by the enemy. Moreover, successfully repulsing you the first time will morally strengthen him for the second.	2003-01-27
US	51839559	R1K3R86XTBWA2Y	0195102835	527953671	Cultures in Conflict: Christians, Muslims, and Jews in the Age of Discovery	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Islamic Civilization outflanked	Bernard Lewis the world's leading authorities on the Middle East discusses the eclipse of the Middle East in their last three centuries in power and how their decline is still felt to this day.  For many centuries, the world of Islam was in the forefront of human achievement--the foremost military and economic power in the world, the leader in the arts and sciences of civilization. Christian Europe, a remote land beyond its northwestern frontier, was seen as an outer darkness of barbarism and unbelief from which there was nothing to learn or to fear. And then everything changed, as the previously despised West won victory after victory, first in the battlefield and the marketplace, then in almost every aspect of public and even private life. In his three essays Conquest, Expulsion, Discovery he examines how the Islamic world was transgressed from conquers to conquered.   Lewis bases the expansion on three significant areas weaponry; education and navigation. <br />The Europeans gained significant advances in the field of weaponry; with the discovery of gun powder in the Far East. The Christian traders bypassed the middle east and bought this product home where it was adapted to deadly fire arms. <br />In 1492 the Spanish monarchs captured Granada, the last Muslim stronghold on the peninsula, and also expelled the Jews.  The Jews got with them the knowledge of printing; but the rulers fearful of desecration allowed the Jews to publish books in any language except Arabic. This caused a significant regression in the transfer of knowledge to the masses; which the West took the maximum gain of. <br />Navigation was a major contributor for the economic development of Europe. The European ships were built for the Atlantic and were therefore bigger and stronger than those of the Muslims , built for the Mediterranean. The muslims also had the Atlantic coastline along Morocco. One obvious answer for the absence of Atlantic faring muslim ships were for the lack of ports on theAtlantic and also Morocco had the Atlantic to them selves in comparison the Europeans had to compete with one another. The sea faring enabled the West to gain the riches from America and colonize it. <br />Islamic civilization was eventually overshadowed by the achievements of European Christendom, and much of the Muslim world came under the direct or indirect domination of the West.	2003-01-27
US	51839559	R3K6VN9RDSQVJ0	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Analysis of a sociopath	Dostoevsky's Crime and Punishment is the story of a poor man in czarist Russia who can only purge himself of his guilt through suffering. It deals with the mental and physical tribulation brought upon him by his crime. His troubles are compounded by the conflicting personalities which he possesses. <BR>The central conflict in Crime and Punishment stems from Raskolnikov's crime of murder and his struggles with his conscience over whether or not he should confess to the police. At <BR>one level, therefore, it is a kind of detective story where the police seek the criminal, and he evades arrest until the last pages of the novel. <br />On a deeper level, the conflict springs from Raskolnikov's exaggerated theories of \\"the extraordinary man\\" and how such western ideas are opposed to the Slavophile concepts indigenous to Russia. The novel also highlights the eternal conflict between the <BR>forces of good and those of evil. <br />Raskolnikov, the protagonist of Dostoevsky's novel, is a handsome and brilliant law student who holds firm but unusual views. He believes that certain superior people in a society stand <BR>above the ordinary human and moral laws. To test his thesis, he murders an old woman that is a greedy moneylender. He feels her death is no great loss to society because she preys upon the misery and poverty of her fellow humans. <br />After the deed, he is seized by alternate moods of great cunning with which he tries to outwit the police and moments of nagging guilt when he resolves to confess his crime. Through this fascinating study of a criminal's conscience. <br />On the surface level, the antagonist is apparently the police force of St. Petersburg, especially Porfiry Petrovitch, who investigates the murders that Raskolnikov has committed. All through the novel, the murderer attempts to evade arrest and to mislead the police. However, on a deeper level, the very order of autocratic society in Tsarist Russia seems to be the antagonist against whom Raskolnikov is pitted. He theorizes that vicious, predatory humans like the pawnbroker are evil and deserve to be eliminated in a society that permits such vile people to prosper. <br />Raskolnikov also believes that some \\"extraordinary\\" humans like himself have the right to transgress and oppose ordinary social laws in order to create a new and more just social order. At another level, ironically, Raskolnikov himself may also be looked upon as the antagonist of conventional society and its unjust system. <br />Throughout the novel, Raskolnikov toys with the idea of confessing his guilt. However, he never manages to do so. He brings himself to reveal to Sonia that it was he who murdered the moneylender and her half-sister, Lizaveta. Although she is deeply shocked by his terrible revelation, Sonia promises to share in Raskolnikov's future sufferings and punishment in a Siberian prison camp. <BR>The apparent theme of the novel is that of planning and executing the perfect crime, as well as the subsequent suffering on the part of the criminal and his obsessive need to confess. Only the first part of the novel deals with the careful planning that precedes the crime. The other five parts are concerned with Raskolnikov's intermittent moments of remorse and his overwhelming desire to confess and to rid himself of the guilt. However, he is unable to do so until the end of the novel. The act of murder and its effects on the mind of the killer form the central subject of Dostoevsky's <BR>Crime and Punishment. <br />Linked closely to this cycle of crime and confession is the motif of all-encompassing fear. This fear reduces Raskolnikov to a quivering mass of indecision, subject to spells of illness, emotional <BR>outbursts of anger and horrible nightmares. The crime and its long-term effects on Raskolnikov's behavior and peace of mind become the very punishment itself. Only in Siberia does he overcome the fear and begin the difficult process of social rehabilitation and moral regeneration. <br />One of the important minor themes of this novel is that of the emotional estrangement and social isolation suffered by Raskolnikov, especially after he turns into a criminal. He feels terribly lonely and utterly devastated by his inability to turn to anyone after the double murder. He feels some sympathy for the unfortunate Marmeladov, who dies in a street accident and for the woman who attempts suicide in the River Neva. Sonia's patience and profound understanding finally help him to bring himself to confess his crime and ultimately to reintegrate into ordinary human <BR>society. <br />To reinforce the theme of isolation and alienation, Dostoevsky makes Raskolnikov often think of \\"the square yard of space\\" to which his crime has confined him. In addition, the novelist frequently introduces the motif of \\"fresh air\\" as a cure for the criminal's isolation and intermittent periods of sickness.<br />Raskolinikov justified his act as follows. Napolean attracted him tremendously, that is, what affected him was that a great many men of genius have not hesitated at wrong doing, but have over stepped the law without thinking about it. He seems to have fancied that he was a genius too-that is he was convinced of it for a time. According to him he has suffered a great deal and is still suffering from the idea that he could make a theory, but was incapable of overstepping the law, and so he is not a man of genius. And that was more humiliating for him a young man with pride than a murder he had committed.	2003-01-23
US	51839559	RD57P6VSAN24J	0613366964	280553264	The Tell-Tale Heart, and Other Writings (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Balance in the human nature	Lately I have been interested in the psychological state of socio-paths. In undertaking this study I was recommended \\"Crime and Punishment\\" by Fyodor and \\"Tell Tale Heart\\" by Edgar Allan Poe. I would not agree with my friends thinking that Edgar Allan Poe's writing entail a socio-pathic behavior; as quite contrary the aggressor is faced with immense guilt and contemplating the actions taken; in the end confessing to the crime. <br />In this collection of very short stories which manifest them in tales of dark horror; Allan I believe is suggesting that human nature is a delicate balance of light and dark or good and evil. Most of the time this precarious balance is maintained; however, when there is a shift, for whatever reason, the dark or perverse side surfaces. How and why this \\"dark side\\" emerges differs from person to person.	2003-01-03
US	51839559	R2NX64BSJKNV1I	0393001512	836511093	An Outline of Psycho-Analysis (The Standard Edition)  (Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud)	Books	5	7	18	N	N	A study on human behavior	I would do great injustice if I attempt to provide my thoughts on the works of Sigmund Freud. I admit my knowledge in this area is shallow and limited; and I took this read more out of curiosity than a scientific study. With this said I would ask you to bear with me in the following paragraphs and at the same time suggest taking this read with a caution that undertaking this read requires immense patience. <BR>The ego has the task for self-preservation; it performs that task by becoming aware of the stimuli, by storing up experiences about them in the memory. It handles it by avoiding strong stimuli, by dealing with moderate stimuli and finally by learning to bring about expedient changes in the external world to its own advantages.  It performs that task by gaining control over the demands of the instincts, by deciding whether they are to be allowed satisfaction, by postponing the satisfaction to times and circumstances favorable to the external world or by suppressing their excitation entirely.  It is in this activity that tensions are produced by the stimuli. The raising and lowering of these tensions cause unpleasure and pleasure.  It is probable however that what is felt as pleasure or unpleasure is not the absolute heights and lows but something in the rhythm of the changes in them.  The ego strives after pleasure and seeks to avoid unpleasure. An increase in unpleasure which is unexpected is met by a signal of anxiety.<BR>In contrast to ego; the id expresses the true purpose of the individual organisms life.  This consists for the satisfaction of its innate needs.  No such purpose as keeping itself alive or protecting itself from dangers by means of anxiety can be attributed to the id.  That is the task of the ego to figure out the most favorable and the least perilous method of obtaining satisfaction; which entails taking the external world into account.  The forces which hide behind the tensions caused by the needs of the id are called instincts. Freud proposed the existence of two basic instinct Eros and destructive instinct.  The aim of the first is to establish greater unities and to preserve them thus in short to bind them together. The aim of the second is to undo connections and to destroy things.   Modifications in the proportions of the fusion between the two instincts have the most opposite result. A surplus of sexual aggressiveness will turn a lover into a sex murderer, while a sharp diminution in the aggressive factor will make him bashful or impotent.	2003-01-03
US	51839559	RGP0SS4M4MIO7	1859843980	415848956	The Trial of Henry Kissinger	Books	4	29	40	N	Y	Trial of Henry Kissinger	Christopher Hitchens in this well document book, gives an indictment sheet for crimes against humanity committed by Henry Kissinger; the charge sheet is as follows:<br />1. The deliberate mass killing of civilian population in Indo China.<BR>2. Deliberate collusion in mass murder.<BR>3. Arming and encouraging the government of Pakistan for the murder of over a million civilians.<BR>4. The personal suborning and planning of murder, of a senior constitutional officer in a democratic nation Chile with which the United States was not at war.<BR>5. Personal involvement in a plan to murder the head of a state in the democratic republic of Cyprus.<BR>6. Personal involvement in a plan to kidnap and murder a journalist living in Washington D.C.<br />It is for these reasons and others, according to Hitchens, that Kissinger has gone to great lengths to cover his tracks, by censoring documents or bequeathing them to the Library of Congress under the condition that they remain sealed until his death.  In my opinion the Trial of Henry Kissinger in a court of law may create a precedent for other leaders as Saddam Hussein, Atul Vajpaiee, Ariel Sharon to stand trial for their acts against humanity.	2002-12-27
US	51839559	R3TVQ621JYV1SD	0385498357	280251010	The Beggar, The Thief and the Dogs, Autumn Quail	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Socio-political impact from the Revolution	The underlying theme in the Trilogy details with courage and delicacy the crisis of identity and conscience suffered by the Egyptian intellectuals during the period of malice and dissatisfaction. It is a nice read for anyone wanting to understand the fame of mind of Egyptian society at that time.	2002-12-27
US	51839559	R13WBCN86AMZF1	977424107X	994368324	Autumn Quail (English and Arabic Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dynamics from the New Egyptian order	In the Autumn Quail Mahfouz traces the relationship of the past and present within the Egyptian Revolution and the possibilities of co-operation and coexistence in the future. Autumn Quail provides the reader with the sentiments and insights on the Revolution put into play by the language of the characters which are from different social background and varying political affiliations. It plays on several themes of alienation; downfall; morality and responsibility.	2002-12-27
US	51839559	RGSLM5Y8OTRF2	9774241355	790656117	The Beggar (English and Arabic Edition)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Description of conflicts within self and society	Set in Cairo in the early 1950s, this novel portrays the psychological torment of Omar, an ardent revolutionary in his youth who in middle age has been left behind by Nasser's 1952 Revolution. His conscience has died. As he struggles for psychological renewal, he gives up his work and his family to a series of love affairs, which simply increase his alienation from himself and from the rest of the world. <br />In The Beggar, the lawyer Omar seems confined in his uneventful life. The doctors are helpless; as he seems in good health, but he is being eaten away by anxiety and a feeling of futility. As a way of escape, he sets out to experience everything that goes against norms of respectable married life, he in hope of  discovering his illness; looses himself in himself in licentiousness and sexual pleasure . However, his nightly adventures themselves disappear in the morning light, and he remains absent to the world. He wishes to be in the heart of a lover -- he seems to have become a dead man among the living. Even when he meets his old friend the militant leftist Osman Khalil as the latter leaves prison, he cannot find himself again. He admires the energy of his friend, whose militant ardour years in prison have done nothing to cool, but he, Omar El-Hamzaoui, is undermined from within, like a body that has neither natural impulses nor desire. A dead beggar among the living, he now calls upon death to give him a taste for living again and the feeling that he belongs in the world. <br />The value of The Beggar does not lie in the dialogue it contains about the superiority of science over art in the technological age, which is a theme that is in any case exhausted. Instead, it lies in the fact that this novel introduced the Arab reader to the opposition between nihilism, or a life without horizons, and the belief that the world and society are open to change. In this novel, the latter belief is no longer tenable, being neither as full nor as positive as reforming discourse would have it be. Instead, the 1960s citizen has discovered his insignificance in the face of the nationalist State's repressive machinery. Not even free to be himself, he is forced into evasion, silence and the silencing of his conscience.	2002-11-29
US	51839559	R1UGDNWE0C8WEO	0385269331	36712065	The thief and the dogs	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A very dry read	In The Thief and the Dogs; Naguib Mahfouz explores some of the disappointments in the failure of the revolution to bring real change. His characters live in a world rich in emotional and political colour. Anyone can identify with their dilemmas, their passions and their frustrations. The Thief and the Dogs deals with the experience of Said Mahran, a burglar and smalltime political activist who goes to jail before the revolution in 1952 and emerges four years later to find the world he used to know has completely changed. Both in personal and political terms Said feels betrayed: his wife has married his old sidekick Ilish, and his former political mentor Ra'uf has given up his student radicalism for a comfortable job with a newspaper.	2002-11-29
US	51839559	R3A4WDDTKKSGQO	0393001423	458565028	The Ego and the Id (The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	An intro into ones self	Id- Unconscious part of the mind which consists of natural instincts, urges, and drives that are repressed. It includes \\"internal events\\" which stem from the influence of heredity. Although the id is the cause of all activity, the thoughts are often unconscious and repressed. The id represents biological forces. It is also a constant in the personality as it is always present. The id is governed by the \\"pleasure principle\\", or the notion of hedonism (the seeking of pleasure). <BR>Ego- A defense mechanism that is partly conscious and contains the capacities to calculate, reason, and plan. As the Id relates to internal events, the Ego is occupied with the external world. Its task is to regulate and control the instincts provided by the id. However, in times of sleep, the ego detaches itself from the outside world and changes, its organization. The prime function of the ego is determined by the individuals experiences. The ego is the surface of the personality, the part you show the world. The ego is governed by the \\"reality principle ,\\" or a pragmatic approach to the world. For example, a child may want to snitch a cookie from the kitchen, but will not if a parent is present. Id desires are still present, but the ego realizes the consequences of brazen cookie theft. <BR>Super-ego- the connection between the id and ego. The super ego is the minds link to reality and society. It contains the influence of what is learned from other people. The super-ego, unlike the id, is not intuitive from birth, but acquired from childhood. Once established, one begins to feel guilt. The superego consists of two parts, the conscience and the ego-ideal. The conscience is the familiar metaphor of angel and devil on each shoulder. The conscience decides what course of action one should take. The ego-ideal is an idealized view of one's self. Comparisons are made between the ego-ideal and one's actual behavior. Both parts of the super-ego develop with experience with others, or via social interactions. According to Freud, a strong super-ego serves to inhibit the biological instincts of the id, while a weak super-ego gives in to the id's urgings. Further, the levels of guilt in the two cases above will be high and low, respectively.<br />The ID strives for the needs, wants desires; as the ID strives for pleasure it encounters experiences of frustration. The desires and needs of the ID do not get responded to as soon as the individual would like; in essence the reality of life; this results in the development of personality that governs orientation to reality.  During early development of a person there are other influences as moral and ethical expectations of family and society. As the ID strives for gratification it encounters these moral and ethical expectations that tend to frustrate the ID; as a result of this the SUPER-EGO develops which represents the individuals moral orientation. Also known as the conscience. Family and society play an important role in defining for a person what these moral and ethical expectations include. Unresolved conflicts between ID-EGO-SUPER EGO can lead to fixation or blockage in development and can result in excessive dependence in manipulation. The resolution of each crisis depends on the interaction of the individual's characteristics and the support provided by the social environment.<br />Quote from Dr Freud: <BR>\\"...the ego seeks to bring the influence of the external world to bear upon the id and its tendencies, and endeavours to substitute the reality principle for the pleasure principle which reigns unrestrictedly in the id. For the ego, perception plays the part which in the id falls to instinct. The ego represents what may be called reason and common sense, in contrast to the id, which contains the passions. \\"	2002-11-20
US	51839559	RQ0214WYJ1YDN	0966862309	797506852	How Cars Work	Books	3	97	105	N	Y	A Basic Understanding of Cars	This book contains very basic material on the operation of the car; it appears to be a decent read for teenagers looking to grasp the basic; but the more mature readers will find this very shallow.  The text contains the fundaments of auto mechanics; it is split into seven chapters; and each chapter describes a major automotive system. It has a test section at the end of each chapter to gauge how much you have learned. This book does not cover details on 2-stroke or 4-stroke engines; how the engine starts spinning after turning the ignition etc.<br />I must admit that it was enertaining reading this books with all the descriptive pictures.	2002-11-20
US	51839559	R1PK6GV7E3TT6S	1860644392	173367288	The Cyprus Conspiracy: America, Espionage and the Turkish Invasion	Books	4	23	29	N	N	Cyprus Betrayed	Stemming from its strategic position; Cyprus became an obsession for the quasi-party's self serving interests at the behest of the Cypriots. Cyprus a divided stated emerged from relentless back room politics between the U.S, Britain, Turkey and Greece.  Hidden away within its unassuming territory lies an overworked highly active agency mandated to keep track on advances in enemy nuclear missile technology; early warning of attacks and controlling the passage of water ways for the free flowing of oil for the free world.  All this attained at a minor price of gross negligence of human rights.  <br />Cyprus has suffered for its strategically important position in the eastern Mediterranean. Colonized by the Greeks in the second millennium BC, it was tossed from Persian, Roman, Byzantine, and finally to Ottoman empire. The Turks retained possession of the island until it was annexed by Great Britain in 1914. From the 1930s onward Greek Cypriots agitated vociferously--and after 1955 militarily--for independence from Britain and union with Greece. Reeling under the pressure for independence the British sought a way to accommodate and still retain control by dividing the two communities and giving them a constitution. In 1960, the Greek and Turkish Cypriots agreed on a constitution for an independent Cyprus, with the Greek Archbishop Makarios III as its first president and Kutchuk as its Vice President. This agreement came into being with the Treaty of Establishment, Treaty of Alliance and the 1960 constitution and Britain as the guarantor of unified Cyprus.  This setup was fatally flawed, as it established  a system of government envisioned by outside powers neglecting to address the deep rooted divisions within the Greeks and the Turk Cypriots. In late 1963, after Makarios made 13 constitutional changes that would abolish the Turkish power of veto over legislation on defense, security, foreign affairs, elections, municipalities and taxation lead  the Turks withdrew from the government.  A decade of internecine warfare and assassinations followed between the two communities that were mediated or, more precisely, \\"observed\\" by the United Nations.<BR>Ultimately--and some would argue, inevitably--the two most interested powers were drawn toward direct intervention: first Greece, which attempted to unite the island under its own form of benign military dictatorship on July 15, 1974; and then Turkey, which responded far more effectively and invaded the place five days later. Cyprus constitutes one of the great unresolved conflicts of the late 20th century.<br />The Greek Cypriots feeling betrayed by the Western  began to look towards the Soviets for help. With this realization and a long-standing plan to save its strategic assets on the island from what U.S. officials feared might be a left-wing takeover if the crisis in Cyprus were not resolved. Cyprus, became invaluable to Washington for monitoring both Soviet nuclear missile activity in Central Asia and potential military threats in the Middle East. Ongoing instability threatened these assets. By mounting an invasion, Turkey saved them.  The Americans had judged that to let Greece and Turkey fight it out would be disastrous for the Western interests, would destroy the NATO's southern wing and leave the entire eastern Mediterranean vulnerable to Soviet take-over.  According to McNally the Turks had threatened that if there was any military intervention against their invasion, they would leave NATO.  Since the Americans badly needed an insurance policy against the Soviets; Kissinger put \\"no credible pressure\\" on Turkey \\"not to go ahead with an invasion.\\" He then did \\"everything\\" he could \\"to help the Turks make up their mind that intervention was the only way they could get satisfaction.\\" And having quietly encouraged the Turks to invade, while systematically \\"ignoring the advice of his own experts,\\" he played what even the Turks called a \\"constructive and helpful role\\" by not protestingthe invasion and the subsequent division of the island.<br />The Greeks have suspected that there was a conspiracy and insist that Turkey could not have acted alone. The Greek sentiment was described by  Makarios after the Turkish attack: \\"The United States is the only country which could have exerted pressure on Turkey and prevented the invasion.\\". The charge itself is perhaps based on circumstantial  events by observing that  the United States tilted toward the more powerful and stabler Turkey over Greece for their interests; and that Kissinger not only knew about Turkish plans to invade Cyprus but may have tacitly approved it. Kissinger's main concern was to control the invasion and force Turkey to assume defensive postures in order not to flare up a direct confrontation Greece and Turkey two key NATO allies. United Kingdom being the guarantor of Cyprus unity considered placing their between Cyprus and Turkey to deter the Turks; but was vetoed by U.S. However U.K decided against such an action to prevent a confrontation with a NATO ally (Turkey) and create a rift with U.S.  <br />In a report submitted by the MP's of  British parliament it was stated that Britain had a legal right, a moral obligation and military capacity to intervene, but choose not to do so. Britain had considerable forces at hand, and could have intervened with or without Turkey, to reverse the coup and had little doubt that either alone or as part of the U.N force, Britain could have forestalled the first Turkish invasion. The chairman declared that Cyprus crises had been a true test of Britain's standing in the world, which should be measured not by its military might or economic wealth, but by its standard of justice, integrity and humanity, and by the way it protects the weak, On all these counts Britain had failed Cyprus for reasons which the Government refused to give.	2002-11-15
US	51839559	RQ8WF1CJDPWF9	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A clever novel	Joseph Heller began work on Catch-22, the story of a US airman's attempts to survive the madness of the Second World War, shortly after returning from the conflict himself.<br />The book - tells the story of Captain Joseph Yossarian, a member of a US bomber crew stationed on the Mediterranean island of Pianosa. Yossarian is convinced that the military is trying to get him killed, and that those around him are insane, and he spends the book trying to get out of flying any more seemingly suicidal missions.<br />Yossarian is surrounded by a cast of bizarre characters, including Colonel Scheisskopf, obsessed with winning military parades at the expense of just about everything else, the newly promoted Major Major, who spends most of the war trying to hide from his men, and the profiteer Lieutenant Milo Minderbinder, a pure capitalist whose only ambition is to make money out of the war, and who ends up charging a commission on every military engagement.<br />Using satire, black humour and seemingly undefeatable logic, the book argues that war is insane, that the military is insane, and that, quite probably, modern life itself is insane too.<br />As Yossarian struggles against the self-serving bureaucracy at the heart of the military machine, Heller argues that the individual will always struggle against the vested interests that control the world. And, perhaps, that madness is an entirely relevant reaction to this.<br /><br />Yossarian's dilemma is summed up by &quot;Catch-22&quot; of the air force's code of practice, &quot;which specified that a concern for one's safety in the face of dangers that were real and immediate was the process of a rational mind&quot;. What this means, as the book's Doc Daneeka explains to Yossarian of another flyer's situation, is that &quot;Orr would be crazy to fly more missions and sane if he didn't, but if he was sane he had to fly them. If he flew them he was crazy and didn't have to; but if he didn't want to he was sane and had to&quot;.  In other words, the only sane reaction to war is to recognise its madness. But in doing so, and proving his sanity, Yossarian makes himself eligible to fight. As Yossarian puts it: &quot;That's some catch, that Catch-22&quot;. The doctor, whose job is to save lives only so that they can be put in danger again, can only agree that &quot;it's the best there is&quot;.	2002-10-16
US	51839559	R36ALZEIPDNZJZ	0789480662	503105432	Eyewitness Travel Guide to Europe	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Helpful guide on tours through Europe	I recently took a backpack trip through Europe, which lasted close to a month; before heading out there I went through a few guidebooks and at that moment this one appealed the most. I cannot say if it was the presentation with the colored photographs; maps of the cities with visitor information or that I was just to plain sick of spending time searching for a guide book to take me though my journey. Nonetheless I am quite pleased that I took this guide with me. I had planned initially to visit a friend in Netherlands and spend some time scrolling through the cities; I left my guide there to my host; but off and on I would reference the book with places I visited; I must admit that this book covered all the places. Now of course I personally feel the best way to visit a place is to have some one show you around as like any other travel guide will not detail the places where the locals would head over to; like the bars, restraunts and night clubs.  My visit from here lead me to Paris; it hit me with all its charm and glamour; here too I was fortunate to be taken around by friends. The real use of the guide came when I went on a solo journey to Belgium Austria and Italy. I found this guide an immense source of information. On my way to the city mostly by trains; I found the chance to orient myself and somewhat have a time frame as to how long I would stay in each city. I found that even though the book has information about hotels and hostels but at the train station's Hotel Guides; I was always able to get better deals. Pretty much I carried this heavy 800 pages book with me where ever I went. <br />Even though this book provides immense information I would highly recommend getting additional reference books on cities, which are known, for immense sightseeing and historical attractions. One such place where the guide fell short was Florence; even tough it has considerable information and provides all the most popular sites. It literally will take a 1000 pages to detail all the places to visit; as a comparison there are over 78 places to visit which have historical importance but the book has listed only about the best 14 of them; well visiting all the places would take a few weeks of stay in comparison to a typical 3-4 days that tourists generally spend; which is sufficient time to visit the places listed in the book. Another important place not mentioned in this test was the \\"Museum of Arsenal\\" in Vienna; here on display is the car in which duke Ferdinand traveled with in Sarajevo. <br />On the whole this covers only the most western countries of Europe and leaves a lot of East European countries and Turkey as well.	2002-10-04
US	51839559	R1N7N984EN1X1P	0761535810	405735166	Bin Laden: The Man Who Declared War on America	Books	1	11	21	N	N	On the Contrary	Contrary:<BR>His book, Bin Laden: The Man Who Declared War on America, was sort of a quickie meant to exploit the huge interest in the Saudi-born Islamist at the time. It may have sold well but scholars meticulous about facts and those knowledgeable regarding bin Laden quickly detected mistakes in the book and pointed them out. One such scholar is Peter L Bergen, an American journalist who had interviewed bin Laden near Jalalabad in 1997 as member of a CNN crew.<BR>In his authoritative book, Holy War Inc: Inside the Secret World of Osama bin Laden, Bergen wrote how Bodansky misinformed readers while describing bin Laden. \\"Bodansky describes the teenage bin Laden visiting Beirut to drink, womanize and get involved in bar brawls. Those who know bin Laden, however, describe him as a deeply religious teenager who married at the age of seventeen. Perhaps Bodansky confused Osama with one of his twenty or so half-brothers.\\" Another Bodansky blunder is narrated in the following words by Bergen: \\"Bodansky also writes that in 1994 bin Laden traveled to London, where he 'settled' in the London suburb of Wembley, a notion that Arab dissidents and journalists living in London find amusing.\\" All accounts of bin Laden's life to date missed out on this vital piece of information and it was left to Bodansky to report, while failing to provide any evidence that the alleged terrorist mastermind had once settled in London.<BR>That is not all. Bergen highlighted another example in his book to show that Bodansky never really cared about checking his facts. Over to Bergen again: \\"Bodansky makes another fantastic assertion: that the 1996 crash of TWA flight 800 in Long Island Sound, which killed 230 people, was a joint operation between Iran and bin Laden. However, an exhaustive two-year investigation by the National Transport Safety Board and the FBI ruled out terrorism in the TWA 800 crash.\\" Mercifully, the investigation was carried out by the National Transport Safety Board and the FBIand not by someone like Bodansky, otherwise the US would now be raining bombs and rockets on Iran.<BR>The above examples, pinpointed by a respected American author, about Bodansky's shortcomings as a scholar have damaged his reputation. Few, if any, would believe his latest disclosures about bin Laden keeping in view his lack of credibility. For Bodansky to make such claims when the world's only superpower doesn't know bin Laden's whereabouts is ridiculous. It also shows Bodansky's anti-Pakistan bias. It would be naive on the part of any scholar of standing to believe that the ISI would shelter bin Laden when the government of President General Pervez Musharraf is going out of the way to cooperate with the US in hunting down remnants of the al-Qaeda and Taliban. Lt Gen Ehsanul Haq, a trusted lieutenant of General Musharraf, commands the ISI and to think that it would disobey the Army chief's orders is absurd. The ISI in the past may have been more loyal to the Army chief than the civilian prime minister but it is now an altogether different situation. The armed forces are fully entrenched in power and the ISI is just an extension of the military government. There cannot be any dichotomy in the policies of President General Musharraf and the ISI chief because they are one and the same.<BR>Beside, it must kept in mind that bin Laden has always been very critical of the Musharraf government owing to its close ties with the US and it would be suicidal for him to trust Islamabad. In fact, bin Laden in an interview with the writer in 1998 bitterly asked why successive governments in Pakistan trusted America instead of God Almighty. Bodansky's claim that bin Laden was being protected by the ISI debunks the commonly held belief that there have never been intimate ties between him and recent Pakistani governments.<br />Pakistan as a forefront nation:<BR>The delay in getting bin Laden is beginning to unnerve the US authorities and President George W Bush, who earlier accusedthe Saudi-born Islamic militant of being the sponsor of acts of terrorism worldwide, is now saying that the war on terror isn't about an individual. The failure of the American troops in killing or capturing bin Laden in Afghanistan despite being fully in control of that country is prompting Washington to pass on the buck to Pakistan. In fact, search operations for al-Qaeda and Taliban operatives in Pakistan are proving less costly, easier and successful compared to those in Afghanistan due to the fact that Pakistani soldiers and militiamen rather than the Americans are in the forefront of the campaign and are taking losses. In Afghanistan, the US is spending much more by paying off the ill-disciplined Afghan fighters and also exposing its soldiers to risks while hunting down al-Qaeda and Taliban members. The Pakistanis are doing the job rather cheaply and then there is no real risk to the Americans who stay in the background and provide technical know-how and intelligence on the wanted men and their likely hideouts in Pakistan. It also pays to get scholars such as Bodansky to put more pressure on Islamabad by authoritatively speculating that bin Laden was being protected by the ISI and was. <BR>Pakistan has taken a great risk of allying itself with the U.S in their war on terrorism. The fact of the matter is that the Pakistan military and not the American forces undertook all key arrests of al-Qaeeda. We have lost considerable number of forces; as well as attacks on foreigners in Pakistan by disgruntled Al-Qaeeda forces. It is quite disheartening to read a text as this and find such unappreciation. <br />Conclusion:<BR>I respectfully state Mr. Yossef Bodansky that your assertions are incorrect and untrue. You do not provide facts and proof to support your assertions.	2002-08-08
US	51839559	RTAYFBXPCPLXE	078795019X	798887078	The Dynamics of Conflict Resolution: A Practitioner's Guide	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	The Essentials of Conflict and its Resolution	To understand conflict, attention needs to be paid to the differences in ways individuals approach it. The way people handle conflict is definition of who they are and how they relate to others.  People approach to conflict derives not only from their upbringing and how they have been taught to deal with conflict, but their culture plays a key role.  Conflict often is generated when people feel disempowered.  Power is the currency for conflict whether its exercise is intentional or not; when people are in conflict their power is in play. The choice in conflict is not whether to use power but how to use it. When people try to meet their needs in face of resistance, they are exercising power.  The success of conflict depends on part on how much power they are able to muster and how wise they are in using it.  The use of power can escalate or deescalate a conflict.  It can create resistance or overcome it.  People can employ their power to create momentum for constructive dialogue and collaborative negotiations; or they can use it to beat others down and to prevent co-operation. Everyone has a choice of how to use power or how to respond to power; the one choice participants don't have is not having any power at all.<br />This is a very theoretical study on conflict and its resolution. Unlike other texts this delves into the core of conflict and explains it to the detail.	2002-06-24
US	51839559	R2P344LQRINCFK	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	The Taliban - as clear as it gets	The brilliance of the Islamic Empire, which at its peak ranged from Vienna till the Arabian Sea, had been achieved with the respect and tolerance to other cultures, pursuit of knowledge, Philosophy, Science, Arts and Aesthetics. At present it is disheartening to look at the stunning and numerous state failures abound in the Muslim world today. The Islamic civilization in ways has abandoned its fore sight, inspiration, vigor and tolerance; in favor of very narrow minded theology of fundamentalism or by brute force dictatorship. In ways we are regressing into the dark ages. The Taliban are the new group, which has soiled the values of the religion they proclaim to follow.  Like many fundamentalist groups they have divested Islam of all its legacies (science, arts, navigation, astronomy) except theology.<br />Afghanistan, both as a state and society has been orphaned over the last two decades. It was orphaned with the U.S abandonment after the Soviet departure; Pakistani interests and Saudi export of Wahabism (Saudi Fundamentalist).  <br />The Western nations especially the U.S having achieved the objective of communism annihilation forsake Afghanistan. The people there took this abandonment as a betrayal.  With the departure of the Americans a power vacuum was left behind. The country had fallen to anarchy as various Afghan warlords backed by regional states fought each other to gain control of the country.  The society along the way got divided along ethnical lines. The Taliban (religious students) stood up to eliminate the mass killings. Interestingly their first clash was against a warlord for having kidnapped and raped a few women. As the Taliban were expanding their influence in the South; Gulbedin Hekmatyar supported by Pakistan was at a stalemate in gaining control of the country. Frustrated the Pakistanis dupe Hekmatyar for the new force Taliban. Pakistan's interests in Afghanistan were three folds; first was for a safe passage to the Central Independent States; second was the use of Afghanistan as a launching pad for fighting a proxy war in Indian held Kashmir and third was for defense security. Pakistan being a long narrow strip faces an enemy seven times its size on the eastern front. The understanding of the military was that in an eventuality of war with India, they would use the bases in Afghanistan to launch retaliatory attacks. This shortsighted support to the Taliban has created more problems than solutions. A de-stabilized Afghanistan has created an influx of 3 million refugee; a flow of drugs and weapons which has polarized a moderate society; an inflow of smuggled foreign goods through ATA (Afghan Transit Authority) which has bankrupted the local industries and caused a loss in tax revenue; Pakistan almost being labeled as a state sponsoring terrorism; and lastly tense ties with Iran. Besides this the Pakistan government spent millions for the upkeep of the Talibans.<br />The Saudis used the Afghans for their own agenda. The Saudis rulers adopting very pro-western policies are controlling a society, which has an underlying tone of anti-west sentiments. To legitimize their rule supported the Talibans and exported their extreme form of Wahabism in an attempt to satisfy their society that they had retained their true Islamic views. With their support in a short time a very dark lethal form of government came to appear.<br />Mr. Rashid has done a superb job of bringing the history of Afghanistan, Pakistan, the Central Asian Republics and the rest of the world to life. I found his book spellbinding because of the events going on now and also his clear style. He does not talk down to his reader. He expects us to follow along closely. He describes the history and thought processes in several different ways. Economic, cultural, military and diplomatic histories are laid down, one after another. Any one of them was a great learning experience. All of them together weave a complex web. There is no single clear answer at the end but there are many partial answers that will be much better than hoping the Taliban will go away by themselves. Mr. Rashid has done the world a great favor with his first-hand accounts. I highly encourage everyone to read his book.	2002-06-03
US	51839559	R3VSS9LV5CG1OF	0517162016	841726186	The Supernatural Tales of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle	Books	3	5	10	N	Y	The super natural tales by sir Arthur Conan Doyle	I must admit these series of stories took me by surprise.  Surprise because my impression of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle has been of a detective author. This appears to be written earlier in his career when he was experimenting with supernatural being. Initially I was somewhat disappointed as I it didn't meet my expectations; but nonetheless it is an interesting read.	2002-05-21
US	51839559	R1I17CIJMMJ3LD	0471399736	543893298	States of Mind: New Discoveries About How Our Brains Make Us Who We Are	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An informative read to unravel our personality and mind	This is a concise set of eight papers; which present to us with a mental and biological bases for our mannerisms. Although we generally manage to carry out without worrying too much about such philosophical conundrums, most of us at some point in our lives have been drawn with a desire for the need to understand our identity its formation and how our thinking process is set in place.  Far from academic sciences, these questions and the answers we seek not only bear on the quality of our relationships with friends, family and associate but also has implications to our interactions with society. Our perception and analysis of events lie within this structure we call mind. To what extent is a bad temper or a joyous moment, a function of will and to what extent are they complex interactions between our genes and our environment. Ever wonder how some people react to situations with fear and hesitations while others react to the same situation without hesitation and care.<br />With advances in research over time, now it is known with certainty that a number of mental problems, such as obsessive-compulsive disorder and schizophrenia are associated with structural abnormalities in the brain and can be cared for with proper medication.  The interconnections of the 100 billion nerve cells define our personality. If these nerves in their respective regions get damaged, we can loose our ability to speak, make memories, and feel emotions and recognition.  The balance or imbalance of these nerves disposes us to act or react differently from others with the life's ups and downs.<br />I highly recommend everyone to take the time to read this; it is highly informative and does not need any knowledge of biology or chemistry; just a curious mind	2002-05-17
US	51839559	R3FCNI2BQR0OQ4	0486270556	793545830	Six Great Sherlock Holmes Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	The super sleuth	In detective literature Sir Arthur Conan Doyle with his Sherlock Holmes series is undoubtedly one of the best authors ever. His character Sherlock Holmes has a remarkable power of observation and his deductions from minutest details are plainly stunning. I feel there never is a dull moment in his stories; which are concise to the point. This compilation of six stories is no exception.  My favorite from this list is \\"The Adventure of the Empty House\\"; in which Holmes busts the remaining group of Prof Moriati's gang. I will not divulge further for fear of giving up the plot.	2002-05-16
US	51839559	R1T86NCE404S09	0700712283	547503850	The Book of Government or Rules for Kings: The Siyar al Muluk or Siyasat-nama of Nizam al-Mulk	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Rules and Conducts for Leaders	Synopsis:<BR>Nizam-Al-Mulk drew up a set of protocols for the governance of the empire called the Siyasat Nameh under Malek Shah. After administering the affairs as a vizier for Malek Shah for some thirty years Nizam-Al-Mulk was overthrown and impeached after he had rashly declared that his cap and ink-horn, the badges of his office, were connected by divine decree with the throne and diadem of the Sultan. <BR>On Deliverance of Justice:<BR>Justice is the most important virtue, and Nizam al-Mulk recommended the king hold court on two days of the week to hear complaints personally and redress wrongs so that oppressors would curb their activities from fear of punishment. Tax collectors should take only the amount due and with civility. Officers should be investigated secretly and if impropriety is found, they should be removed from office and be replaced by the learned and pious.<BR>On Generosity:<BR>A ruler should be generous in his acts. nothing is better than generosity, and kindness, and hospitality. Any peasant in need of oxen or seed should be given a loan to keep him viable. The story is told of how Sultan Mahmud, afraid that he was not handsome, was advised by Ahmad Ibn Hasan to take gold as his enemy so that men will regard him as their friend. Mahmud then became generous and charitable, and the whole world adored him.<BR>On Knowledge and Wisdom:<BR>Luqman the Wise noted that knowledge is better than wealth, because you have to take care of wealth, but knowledge takes care of you. Nizam al-Mulk believed that sound judgment is better for a king than having a powerful army. Nizam al-Mulk believed it was the perfection of wisdom not to become angry at all; but if one does become angry, intelligence should prevail over wrath. The wise have said that patience is good, but it is even better during success. Knowledge is good, but it is even better with skill. Wealth is good, but it is even better with gratitude and enjoyment.<BR>On Armed Forces:<BR> Nizam recommendedhaving different races among the troops so that they would compete with each other to excel. He described Alp-Tegin's rise to power from a slave and page of the Samanids to a commander. He punished a page for taking hay and a chicken from a peasant without paying for it as he ordered. This made other soldiers afraid, and the peasants were safe. His justice led the citizens of Ghaznain to take Alp-Tegin as their king. Because the Samanids tried to destroy the worthy Alp-Tegin, they declined and were overcome by Alp-Tegin and his successor Sebuk-Tegin, who founded the Ghaznavid empire.<BR>On Appointment of Ministers:<BR>He wrote that two appointments should not be given to one man nor should one position be given to more than one person. He complained that many worthy people remain unemployed when some persons are given several positions each. He lamented that it used to be that those hired followed the Hanafi or Shafi'i teachings and were from Khurasan or Transoxiana; but now Taj al-Mulk wants to economize by reducing 400,000 men on the pay-roll to 70,000 in order to fill the treasury with gold. Nizam argued that a larger empire required more employees and that even more men would enable them to govern India too.<BR>On Qualities of King<BR>He believed the Sasanians fell from power because they entrusted important affairs to petty and ignorant officers and because they hated learned people. Thus instead of having wise officers, Buzurjmihr said he had to deal with incapable officers. Buzurjmihr Bakhtgan advised the king to banish the bad qualities from himself, which he listed as \\"hatred, envy, pride, anger, lust, greed, desire, spite, mendacity, avarice, ill temper, cruelty, selfishness, hastiness, ingratitude, and frivolity.\\"The good qualities he should exercise are \\"modesty, good temper, clemency, forgiveness, humility, generosity, truthfulness, patience, gratitude, mercy, knowledge, intelligence, and justice.\\"<BR>Nizam cited the early caliph 'Umar's response to the last Sasanian king Yazdijurd Shahryar to show that the latter's empire was declining, because his court was crowded with complainers; his treasury was full of ill-gotten wealth; and his army was disobedient. <BR>Conclusion:<BR>Nizam told stories from history to show that a sick era replaces good times when a just king does away with evil-doers, has right judgments, and a vizier and officers of virtue; every task has the proper worker; heretics are put down, and the orthodox are raised up; tyrants are repressed; soldiers as well as peasants fear the king; the uneducated and base are not given positions; the inexperienced are not promoted; advice is sought from the intelligent and mature; men are selected for their skill, not because of their money; religion is not sold for worldly things; everything is ordered according to merit; thus all people have work according to their capability; and all things are regulated by justice and government by the grace of God.	2002-05-14
US	51839559	R14D9CU6BZI4AC	0833024698	836045758	The Implications of the Possible End of the Arab-Israeli Conflict for Gulf Security	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	A case study on Arab-Israeli Peace and its implications	The security of the Persian Gulf remains a vital national security concern for the United States. Vital, as over 30% of oil imports are sent from the region. A disturbance in the supply caused by internal or external conflict may diminish the economic growth of not only the U.S but will have ramification worldwide.  Post Desert Storm the political landscape of the region has changed dramatically.  With the Soviet Union disintegrated, the U.S remains the sole power to dictate its term. This new reality has forced nations in the region to accommodate the change in this reality.  A significant shift in policies occurred by both Syria and Jordan, which were once supported by Soviet Union and later moved from confrontation to compromise in the relations with U.S. This change occurred after it became evident that Russia could no longer support them financially and militarily. Call it direct or indirect but peace in (how shallow a form) came about after Soviet Union was dismantled.  Till the mid 1990's significant dialogue and energy was placed by both Israel and the Arab nations.<br />In this study the authors have identified the region of conflict in the Gulf, and the access available to the forces from friendly countries. The authors do comparative analysis on military forces, bases and equipment between all the countries. There were two facts mentioned in this study, which I do not concur with, which are:<br />1. Security and Intelligence sharing between Arabs and Israel.<br />2. Iranian Opportunism.<br />I disagree with first on the mere premise that there exists much mistrust between the two nations. The present example is relations between Israel and Egypt. Having made peace in the late 70's the relation has not progressed; it is at best a mere recognition and a non-war pact. True peace cannot be achieved in my perception till the Palestinian cause for a homeland is not addressed and their rights of independence are not respected. In the second case Iranian Opportunism in the region remains a very unlikely scenario.  The Iranians like all the people in the region have witnessed the devastation brought onto Iraq after if began its incursion into Kuwait. Besides at present Iran remain both militarily and financially very weak. In the late 1990 the Iran government decided against an attack on Afghanistan (under Taliban) after it was evident that the latter had murdered its diplomat.	2002-05-02
US	51839559	R2VM6XJ2ZRW483	0451523938	732800244	Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde (Signet Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A unique case of dual personality	The book begins with two men, Mr. Utterson and his cousin Mr. Richard Enfield, on a walk in London. Although the two men are initially silent, after passing a mysterious cellar door in a basement, Mr. Enfield launches into a strange occurrence that centered around the door. Late one night, while he was on his way home, he chanced upon a deformed, short man who trampled a girl in the street who was on her way to get a doctor. The girl's family and Mr. Enfield catch the mysterious man and instead of getting the police, they decide to blackmail him and force him to give the girl's family money. Agreeable, the mysterious man disappears into the same cellar door and comes out with a check bearing not his own name, but that of the respectable Dr. Jekyll. Surprisingly, the check was not a forgery. <BR>After hearing the story, Utterson returns to his home where he removes Dr. Jekyll's mysterious will, which he recently filed with Mr. Utterson. Jekyll's will stated that in case of his death, his substantial estate will pass to Mr. Hyde, but even stranger, in case of his disappearance for more than three months, Hyde will assume Jekyll's life without delay. He also realizes that the mysterious door is connected, in an L shape way, to Jekyll's home. Utterson decides that Jekyll is being blackmailed by Hyde and seeks to search to see his face in order to understand why. After tracking him down, he is initially civil but turns angry when Utterson proceeds in the conversation. <BR>One year later, Hyde murders Sir Danvers Carew with a cane. With help from Utterson, the police find Hyde's apartment ransacked. After leaving, Utterson proceeds to Jekyll's and confronts him for harboring a murder. Jekyll claims that he is done with Hyde and promises that he has nothing left to do with him. He does, however, have a farewell note from Hyde. Utterson examines the note and his clerk, Mr. Guest, later discovers that the handwriting from the note matches a dinner invitation written by Dr. Jekyll. Angrily, Utterson assumes that Jekyll has forged a letter for a murderer. <BR>More time passes, and we learn that although Hyde has not been located, Dr. Jekyll becomes more and more social until one day Utterson attended a dinner party at Jekyll's where Lanyon was present. Shortly there after, Jekyll secluded himself and Dr. Lanyon fell ill and died. After his death, Dr. Lanyon left Jekyll a letter than instructed him not to read it for ten years. After these mysterious events, Enfield and Utterson again walk by the mysterious door. Through one of the windows, they witness Jekyll having a frightening seizure through the windows of the cellar. <BR>About a week later, Poole, Jekyll's butler, approaches Utterson, who is afraid because Jekyll has locked himself in the basement and the only things that hear is strange sounds, including crying. The only communication that has come is letters desperately asking for a specific type of salt. Utterson follows Poole to Jekyll's house and breaks down a red cabinet where the body of Hyde is found. In the laboratory, the two discover a large envelope addressed to Mr. Utterson. Inside, Jekyll urges Utterson to read the package from Lanyon and if he wished to know more, read the further description that Jekyll provided within the envelope. <BR>Lanyon's narrative begins by describing a strange letter he received from Henry Jekyll, the night after a dinner party at Jekyll's residence. The letter urges Lanyon to go to Jekyll's house and get the contents of a drawer in the laboratory. Afterwards, a strange caller will come to Lanyon's house in Jekyll's name and recover these same items, powder, a phial, and a paper book. Lanyon does as much, thinking that Jekyll is crazy, and Mr. Hyde appears at the subscribed time. He gives Hyde the ingredients; Hyde mixes them into a potion, and after drinking it transforms into Dr. Jekyll. This shock, the pure evilness of the situation, was what brought about Lanyon's subsequent death. <br />After reading the account of Dr. Lanyon, Utterson then reads Jekyll's own account of his failed experiment. Jekyll believed that the soul is made up of two separate distinctions: evil and the good. These two separate beings live in continuous and inherent conflict with each other. Slowly, Jekyll begins an experiment where he makes two potions and transforms himself into Edward Hyde. Shortly after becoming Hyde, he drinks a second potion and once again becomes Henry Jekyll. This experiment begins Jekyll's exploration of his other self, a side that he freely explores and feels no remorse for the negative and evil actions of Mr. Hyde. <BR>For some months, this behavior continued until one moment, \\"I had gone to bed Henry Jekyll, I had awakened Edward Hyde.\\" Alerted that the character of Hyde might irrevocably stay, Jekyll chose to give up the freedom of Hyde and for two months his decision held weight. Unfortunately, he was tortured with Hyde's longing and he once again took the potion and brutally murdered Carew. Because of the manhunt for Hyde, he swore this character off forever and set out to try to remedy the evil...it is an intriguing combination of fantasy and thriller and moral allegory, Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde depicts the gripping struggle of two opposite personalities one essential good, the other evil - for the soul of one man. Its tingling suspense and intelligent and sensitive portrayal of man's dual nature reveal Stevenson as a writer of great skill and originality, whose power to terrify and move us remains, over a century later undimihnished	2002-04-19
US	51839559	R13VN2Q0AARJCS	0385237847	482888213	The Art of Strategy: A New Translation of Sun Tzu's Classic The Art of War	Books	3	58	71	N	Y	Explanation on Strategy & Politics	5 star for SunTzu's work<BR>0 star for R.W.Wangs annotaion<BR>3 stars over all<br />Sun Tzu's strategy is based on the laws of nature - both human and environment. His treatise is a universal template that shows the way to triumph over conflicts from interpersonal to international. The strategy follows a direct path that escalates until victory is assured.  From analysis and projection, through planning and positioning and on to confrontation.  Sun Tzu explains such techniques as the use of camouflage the creation of illusion and gathering intelligence.  A true victory can be won only with a strategy of tactical positioning so that the moment of triumph is effortless and destructive conflict is averted.  Sun Tzu pointed out \\"Those who win one hundred triumphs in one hundred conflicts do not have supreme skill. Those who have supreme skill use strategy to bend others without coming to conflict\\".<br />Sun Tzu explores the psychological motivations for power and discipline in `Art of War'. His work is ostensibly about tactics and day-to-day practice of warfare. As Sun Tzu was a keen observer of human nature, `the Art of war' is filled with advice useful not only for those engaged in war but also for those carrying on their normal lives.<br />The strategic and tactical doctrines expounded in `The Art of War' are based on deception, the creation of false appearance to mystify and delude the enemy; the indirect approach; readily adaptability to the enemy situation' flexible and co-ordinate maneuver of combat elements and speedy concentration against point of weakness. The best policy is to attack the enemy plans to prevent him from acting; then disrupt his alliances; creating a wedge amongst the people in state. <br />In the `Art of War' the underlying tone is discipline.  The general has to spend considerable amount of energy in emphasizing the need for discipline. Discipline via fear is however useful only up to a point. There must be a motivating force for all people who aspire to succeed, whether in the field of business, politics, administration, government or warfare. Wars cannot be won by just mere strength but it is on a conglomeration of factors, which need to be accounted. Sun Tzu emphasizes the need to take the moral of oneself and its enemy, the environment and other barriers into consideration. The moral strength and intellectual faculty of men were decisive in war, and that if these were applied war could be waged with certain success. Never to be undertaken thoughtlessly or recklessly, war was to be preceded by measures designed to make it easy to win.  The master conqueror frustrates his enemy plans and breaks his alliances; he creates cleavages between the sovereign and minister, superior and inferiors, commanders and subordinates.  His spies and agents are active everywhere, gathering information, sowing dissention and nurturing subversion. The enemy needs to be isolated and demoralized and his will to resist broken, thus without battle his army is conquered his cities taken and his state overthrown.<br />Sun Tzu is a very vigilant and keen observer on human psychology.<BR> <BR>The commentaries and annotations inserted preceding each chapter by R.W.Wang were lacking in depth; thought and any structure. They are more of an irritant than interesting read. I found myself skipping over his annotations. I found that his annotations had grammatical mistakes and I didn't find an introduction about the author.	2002-04-11
US	51839559	R2BEJ5HCIXWLYX	014028852X	93644243	Difficult Conversations: How to Discuss What Matters Most	Books	5	140	148	N	Y	Very Informative and helpful	Everyone of us has gone through difficult conversations, arguments that were leading no where or felt that we were unjustifiably being taken advantage of. The solution - read this book. The authors have done a remarkable work in presenting conversations (real examples) that we can relate to.  They educate the reader with the pitfalls and means o avoid them.<br />In difficult conversations the participants generally fall trap to the three common crippling assumptions which are:<BR>1. The Truth assumption : I am right you are wrong<BR>2. The Intention Invention : When the other persons intentions are unclear a common perception is <BR>                                                  that they are bad<BR>3. The Blame Frame : Blame the other produces disagreement, denial and little learning<br />The authors map a path by showing how to avoid the pitfalls when facing a difficult conversation and come out as a winner. In our life we prepare for almost every thing, like schooling and college for career etc. it is somewhat surprising that conversations that truly are a means to progress we spend little time on; this is one of the books in this area. I highly recommend that you read it.	2002-04-10
US	51839559	R1EU7R5ZMKX704	0870239759	72929359	The Rebel's Silhouette: Selected Poems	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	The rebel within	Only a rebel can say words as deep and meaningful as<BR>Aaaj Ka Naam Aur Aaaj Ka Gham Ka Naam<BR>Zard patton ka Gham jo mera Dees hai<BR>Zard ki Anjoman jo mera dees hai<br />Faiz is a poet of beauty and love. His message is the reign of beauty and love in the country. The passion for enjoying the beauty of life, his deep attachment to love of self and the agony of the world, his love of humanity, his patriotism, his passion for revolution, his sense of justice, are all metaphors of the agony of love. That agony of love which is the soul of his imagination and feeling, on account of which he illuminates the beauty of both worlds with the desolation of his heart. For Faiz, the testing power of beauty is in its creativity. Beauty is not mere artistic value, it is also a social and moral value: <BR>The candle of a look, the star of imagination, All these illuminations have come from your gathering.<BR>Whichever be the source of pain, we ascribe it to you,<BR>Whatever complaints we have, are on account of you. <br />If it be the agony of the world, if it is the beloved's face or the hand of the rival,<BR>We responded towards all of these with love. <BR>Faiz wrote a sad revolutionary battle-song, the like of which is not be found in any language of the world: <br />For the love of your flower-like lips, <BR>We were sacrificed on the dry branches of the noose, <BR>For the desire of the candles of your hands <BR>We were killed on half-dark paths. <BR>And with revolutionary dignity: <BR>On our lips the words of the ghazal, <BR>And the torch of misery in our hands, <BR>Gather our banners from the place of murder, <BR>Caravans of other lovers will emerge, <BR>For whose path our feet have shortened the distances of pain.<BR> <BR>In the Lenin Peace Prize speech he had said: <BR>I believe that humanity which has never been defeated by its enemies will, after all, be successful; even now and at long last, instead of wars, hatred and cruelty, the foundation will rest on the message of Hafiz, an old Persian poet: \\"Every foundation you see is defective, except the foundation of love, which is faultless. <BR>And Faiz Sahib prays: <br />Let us too lift our hands, <BR>We who do not remember the customary prayer, <BR>We who do not remember any idol or God except love. <br />This agony of love is not only a part of the human condition but it is a relationship which extends from one end of the world to another. Faiz Sahib's love for humanity is free from the prejudices of race, colour or nationality. The new literature of protest suggests a radical change and, in the words of Faiz, it confers on us the power of \\"forcefully spurning the hand of the killer\\". It does not accept defeat because it is convinced that darkness should and must end. <BR>When personal sorrow drank the elixir of world-sorrow, the lovers' love became doubly strong: <br />My heart repents neither this love nor the other,<BR>My heart is spotted with every kind of sorrow,<BR>Except the mark of repentance.	2002-04-09
US	51839559	R3NEJXW4DK2IU9	1850100225	715838109	Triumph Spitfire '62'81 (Haynes Repair Manuals)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An 8-months project from a mechanically inept idiot	When I was a teenager I watched the movie 'Ferris Bueller's Day off'; it was then I wished to own a vintage convertible. I ended up with not the Ferrari as in the movie but with a very stylish sports convertible Triumph Spitfire (1969). One sunny summer afternoon I was zipping through the windy roads of Big Basin California and it was there I experienced a disaster. Regrettably I was warned about this from a few mature friends and colleagues but I just failed to acknowledge it; the warning was breakdown do happen. With smoke blowing from the engine it was a sign for a bad news. My most capitalistic mechanic quoted me a maximum price for which I could have almost gotten another one of these mobile. I had a hard choice to either cut my losses and walk away or somehow get it fixed. My many memories spent in the car along with my childhood dream prevented the former action. My only choice was to get my hands greasy. Well that was the easy part; my minor limitation was that my<BR>knowledge about working of the car was limited to three steps 1.Put keys in ignition and start the engine. 2. Something happens 3. Wheels rotate and car moves. Very simplistic I agree; but I needed more understanding in step 2. Something happens. So I searched around and I came across this bible for dummies in car repair. Over the last 8 months I have spent much of my free time under the hood and getting my hands dirty; my guide is this 300 pages manual. I have learnt immensely from it and am more aware of the mechanics of the car; I (surprised myself) was able to dismantle the engine diagnose the cause correct it and put it back together. <BR>If you interested I found that I was running low on radiator fluid due to a hose leak; the car was overheating which caused the pistons to blow up. The machinist did a fine job in replacing the pistons and I had them oversized which  adds more firepower to the engine. I have the car running but it needs minor adjustments on timing. My goal is to make thisa high performance car and race with it. In my to-do list I intend to have high performance exhaust system; Side-Draft Carburetor; and an Electrical distributor, all this will add to the horsepower. I highly recommend this book to anyone still afraid of working on cars. The illustrations along with the text will guide you very comfortably and answer all the questions that may arise	2002-03-29
US	51839559	R1XK5GMJAN2BE	1877864463	466774893	Understanding Arabs: A Guide for Westerners (The Interact Series)	Books	1	8	27	N	N	Shallow and lacking depth	Since the September event I have spent much time to read in subjects of the Middle East, in an attempt to better understand the issues and people of that region. In that direction I took to the reading of \\"Understanding Arabs\\". The title of the book is very demeaning, as it suggests a highhanded approach in the subject. The connotation from the title makes it sound that the Arabs are a group of some animal species and the author is a silent observer writing on the social behavior of this species.<br />The Arab culture at present is under going immense changes under pressure from within but more from external influence. The Saudi ambassador to the United States made the following observation.<BR>\\"Foreign imports are nice as shining or high-tech things. But intangible social and political institutions imported from elsewhere can be deadly. Ask the Shah of Iran. A constant problem with so much of the west is the pressure need for short focused solutions and instant gratification, our pace is more for long distance running, for durability. We Saudis want to modernize, but not necessarily westernize. We respect your society even if we disagree on some matters\\".<br />What I understood from the book is that Arab culture is complex but not unfathomable or totally exotic. The Arabs are demonstrative, emotional, subjective, hospitable and full of zest for life; while at the same time bound by stringent rules and expectation. Foreigners need not feel obliged to imitate Arabs to be accepted in their society, it is important to be non-judgmental and to avoid actions that are insulting and shocking.  Arabs feel that the western society is too liberal.  The Arabs have a great deal of pride and are easily hurt, they are sensitive to display of arrogance and to implied criticism. They also resent and disapprove of Western political policies in the Arab world. I felt this book was too generalized and void of depth in the subject. The examples given are not supported.	2002-03-15
US	51839559	RATQ0AM451PQS	0896086119	761007518	Rogue States: The Rule of Force in World Affairs	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	Harsh critic of United States foreign policy	In Rogue States Nom Chomsky is a harsh critic and has highlighted the discrepancies in the United States foreign policy. His definition of rogue states has two uses: a propagandistic, which applies to assorted enemies and a literal use that applies to states that do not regard themselves bound by international norms. In the post WWII era these norms were defined and developed by the United Nations charter, by International Court of Justice decisions and by various conventions and treatise signed by states.  After the end of cold war the U.S being the sole super power, international law today is less regarded by the U.S than at any other time.  This was especially highlighted by the Clinton administration when Madam Albright informed the U.N that the U.S will act Multilaterally when possible and Unilaterally when necessary. In foreign Affairs journal, Samuel Huntington warns that Washington is treading a dangerous course in the eyes of most of the world he suggests, the U.S is becoming the rogue super power and considered the single greatest threat to their societies.  In the same essay he predicts that coalitions may arise to counter the balance of the super power.<br />Chomsky states that on one hand the U.S took stern action against the deplorable invasion of Kuwait by Iraq but stayed silent when Indonesia (its ally) under dictator Suharto annexed East Timor. In this Indonesian invasion within a few years tens of thousands of people died. The U.S also armed Turkey a NATO ally but didnt question their repression on the Kurdish minority. After the Gulf War Washington publicly supported a revolution from within to overthrow Saddam Hussein but their actions were contrary to their speech.  In March 1991 immediately after the war, the state department refused to have any dealing with the Iraqi democratic opposition and they were denied access to media.  While Saddam was decimating the southern opposition, the U.S army aware of this action refused to permit rebelling military officers access to captured Iraqi arms. Ahmed Chalabi the London based head of the Iraqi National Congress said The United States, covered by the fig leaf of non-interference in Iraqi affairs, s waiting for Saddam to butcher the insurgents in the hope that he can be overthrown later by a suitable officer.<br />On March 2, 1998 Foreign Minister prince Saud re-iterated that  the greatest de-stabilizing element in the Middle East and the cause of all the problems in the region is Israels policy towards the Palestinians and the U.S support for it, which might activate popular forces that the Saudi Arabia greatly fears, as this will undermine its legitimacy as guardian of Islamic holy places including Dome of the Rock in East Jerusalem. While a fair treatment to the Palestinians were denied the U.S fought hard so that Afghanistan is liberated from Russian occupation; the U.S also supported the independence of the Central Asian states from Russia.	2002-03-15
US	51839559	R3TPDKGDIHTPYV	0792386698	551163117	Design for AT-Speed Test, Diagnosis and Measurement (Frontiers in Electronic Testing)	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Lacking in DFT concepts	With recent advances in semi conductor process technology companies that design and manufacture leading edge products are quickly moving towards deep sub micron (DSM) integrated circuits (IC) technology.  This transition occurs because DSM technology enables increased functionality, higher chip performance and decreased costs.<br />One obstacle to achieving the full benefits of a DSM technology is the inability of today's design and test methodologies to keep up with continual advances in semi conductor process development.  As more companies experience the testing challenges imposed b DSM technology, there is a growing acceptance that semi conductor designers and manufacturers must use a hierarchal approach to testing.  Leading manufacturers/developers of semi conductor products are adopting hierarchal test solution - embedded test.  Embedded test extends conventional test method with a test solution that hierarchally embeds critical portion of the ATE into the product itself.  This embedded test critical portions of the ATE into the product itself.  This embedded test complements the functionality of the external ATE and addresses the complexity of products based on technology.<br />This text provides the application of one such vendor -Logic Vision.  If the reader is in search of in-depth embedded test application knowledge in DFT, MBIST, LBIST and JTAG then this is not a recommended book, as this is a handy reference manual to Logic Vision tools.	2002-02-24
US	51839559	R1PO3UUJFNB0JV	0300093454	673480068	Jihad: The Rise of Militant Islam in Central Asia	Books	4	55	69	N	Y	Frankenstein VS Monster	The question remains are we the Victor Frankenstein who has turned our back on the monster we created?<br />The Western perception of Jihad, influenced considerably by the crusades in the middle age is one of an Islamic holy was fought against the non-believers.  Contrary to this concept the prophet of Islam Muhammad professed Greater Jihad which is one where each Muslim attempts to become a better person and struggles to improve one self, in doing so benefits the community and society in which they live.  To him Jihad is an inner struggle of moral discipline.  The lesser Jihad takes place to rebel against an unjust tyrant ruler, irrespective of the ruler's beliefs. Today the jihadi movement from Taliban to Osama Bin Ladens Al Qaeda to the movements in Central Asian sates have conveniently ignored the greater jihad and opted for the lesser one, this choice was a means to complete their self-indulgent political gains.  These movements have assassinated the faith and hijacked the religion.  Nowhere in the Muslim writings or traditions does Islam sanction the killings of the innocent.<br />At the heights of the Islamic civilization during, the crusades to moors to Ottoman times Muslims were tolerant and respectful for other cultures and beliefs.  Our present times we witness the lows of intolerance, where fanatics measure the goodness of society by the length of a mans beard or the thickness of a woman's veil.  These new Islamic fundamentalist are not interested in transforming a corrupt society into a just one, they are un-interested in providing jobs, education or social benefits, they have no viable economic agenda or a political manifesto for good governance.<br />The Beginning:<BR>Before the 16th century Central Asian states were the envy of many, there economic might was drawn from trade routes connecting Europe to Asia widely known as silk route.  With the opening of the sea-lanes and diversion of traffic they lost their glitter and revenues to this new competition. Unable to cope with huge armies and luxuries they obliterated into squabbling city based fiefdoms.  In 1861 the American civil war, disrupted the cotton supply to Russian factories, besides the expanding British Empire gave Russians the pretense to conquer this territory.  Afghanistan became the buffer between the two empires.  The Russians drew a rebellious response from the Basmachi (Muslim) revolts.  Stalin drove to isolate this area from the world and strictly prohibited practice of Islam. For the next seven decades they tried to dismember them from their traditions, religion and culture. The spirit  lived within them and they practiced in hiding, the more the soviets tried to stamp out the more it spread.  <br />The Spread:<BR>With their independence came a strong desire for expression of speech, movement and religion.  The government in turn became intolerant to religion, as most of the rulers were used to the ex-communists from the Soviet republic. This repression turned moderate muslims to radical movements.  The growing popularity of militant islam in Central Asia is due to the repressiveness of the regimes.  The government jealously guards their power and refuses to broaden their political base, refuse to institute the mildest of democratic reforms or allow political opposition. Whilst poverty and unemployment increase and economic opportunity decrease along with the misuse of power and blatant corruption adds to the ill.  The people looking for an alternative solution find one in fundamentalists as no political opposition exists.  The following is an observation quoted in Jihad by Ahmed Rashid from European based International Crisis Group.<BR>\\"  The situation is so dire for the vast majority of the population that the patience is beginning to evaporate and unrest to grow sharply.  The likelihood is that dire poverty combined with despair and outrage over rampant corruption, repressive policies and government failure to address local needs could ledto outbreaks of localized unrest with potential to spread into wider conflict\\"<br />There is an abundance of oil wealth in the region, which will bring economic prosperity to the region but may not tackle down to the people at grass roots due to corruption. With this there will be a greater disparity between the poor and the rich, will further cause de-stabilization to the region. <br />The Fix:<BR>The world has witnessed the unjustified acts of September 2001. There is a moral responsibility for the nations to ensure that a smooth transition from soviet isolation to global engagement occurs in Central Asia. There is an immediate need for the regimes there to provide greater political and personal freedom, minimize corruption and provide economic opportunities to the people. There needs to be a greater interest by the nations to build the infrastructure that was laid to ruins by seven decades of soviet isolation.<br />On the whole this is an immensely enlightening book on the future hot spots. Ahmed Rashid has done a brilliant work again after his book `Taliban'.  It is a must read for anyone who is looking for answers or generally trying to understand the area.	2002-02-21
US	51839559	R1WSOOK1Z05OI0	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Towels, Mice, and Spaceships	'The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy,' by Douglas Adams, is a spontaneous comic adventure. To bring out the humorous characters and events, Douglas Adams uses a lot of satire to attract the reader's attention. A scene that brings out much of the satire is at the beginning of the book. Arthur Ford lies in front of bulldozer to stop the demolition of his house so the city can build a bypass. Arthur, having just found out the day before, is annoyed because the plans were buried from the public. To emphasize the satire, Adams destroys Earth to build an intergalactic bypass whose plans were also buried. This is all going on while the construction workers are trying to find a way to get more money out of their union for working with insane people. Adam uses this satire throughout the entire book to give it an added flavor and to persuade changes on earth with certain situations. As Arthur and Ford start hitchhiking their way around the galaxy to find the ultimate answers to life and the universe, they encounter worlds full of trouble.<br /> The story starts out with Arthur Dent protesting his house from being torn down for a bypass, when his friend Ford Perfect, an alien who has been posing as an out-of-work actor on earth for the past fifteen years, drags Arthur away to tell him the world is going to be destroyed. He warns his disbelieving friend Arthur that the planet is soon to blow up, and rescues both of them seconds before its destruction by hitching a ride from the Vogons. After Ford and Arthur are tortured by hideous poetry, Zaphod Beeblebrox, the president of the galaxy, and Trillia, the only other surviving human being, save them. Together they travel the galaxy to lead to the  ultimate answers to life.<br />I would say this book is Random. Sinister. Funny. 'The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy' covers everything from galactic space monsters to far-off planets no one has ever of. This completely random book has the reader on his toes from the very first page tothe last. Totally unpredictable. If you want a joyful, whimsical ride through space, then read 'The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	2002-02-12
US	51839559	R7OIZ6VTVTOX6	0571192343	527213460	My Son the Fanatic	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	The struggle for acceptance by an immigrant	My Son the fanatic is a short story of an immigrant from Pakistan. The underlying theme of this novel is the struggle of the asian immigrants face in an alien society which refuses to accept them, treat them as equals and the ways in which they deal with the alienation. There is a sharp contrast in the way Pervez and his son Farid deal with the sense of belonging and being a part of society. <br />With all the compromises and loses Pervez suffers in his migration; he appears to take them as a part of his experience and adventure of life; to him it seems to be worth the price. He mentions how better his life has been in comparison to having stayed back. He refuses to acknowledge the cold behavior of the local British. <br />His son Farid on the other hand seems to have considerable anger and is not disillusioned by the British cold behavior. He finds the society constraining, limiting and degrading and feels to be a victim in his country. Having been excluded he is tempted to exclude others. He finds comfort with his own people and gets attached towards Islam. Having been brought up in secular Britan , he would turn the to a form of belief that denies him the pleasure of society in which he lived. Having devoted his life to pleasure: the pleasure of sex, music, alcohol and friends; he detracts and spends time in abstinence; for in abstinence he felt strong.<br />Hanif in his short novel has touched the conflicts a lot of asian families feel having migrated to a foreign country. He has outlined the characters brilliantly and this is most certainly a very entertaining novel to read.	2002-02-05
US	51839559	R2HNBCT5FELU9M	0965044823	94958550	Understanding Sonet Sdh: Standards & Applications	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	A reasonable text to understand SONET	Ignoring the grammatical/syntactical errors and inconsistent line tabulations. I feel this is a fairly reasonable book to understand the structure of SONET. He does a satisfactory job in explaining how SONET data is constructed from the PDH structure. I like the fact that he at times repeats the essential details which helped me remember them and not have to refer to earlier pages.  I felt at times he could have done more to explain certain points n more detail; e.g how does positive/negative frequency justification affect the design and buffer threshold. He does not explain how the data (email/telephone/fax) fetches its way across to its destination. I just got the basic awareness of SONET and will have to read other books to get a complete picture.	2002-02-05
US	51839559	R2UJPO1QLHMTD9	0921820712	192512009	From the Big Bang to Planet X: The 50 Most-Asked Questions about the Universe ... And Their Answers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The trivial astronomy question every one asks! answered	The author has succeeded in writing a useful, enjoyable, and eminently readable book. The questions range over the whole domain of astronomy and include those concerned with current areas of astronomical research. . . . In addition to giving answers that are accessible to a general audience, the author often uses easily visualized models to describe, for example, the relative size of the solar system or the thickness of Jupiter's rings. The diagrams and photographs (many taken by the author himself) add significantly to the explanations. Obviously, in a book of this length that covers so wide a range of topics, it is not possible to go into great depth on any particular subject. However, the author has wisely included an extensive reading list for further study, organized question by question.	2002-01-13
US	51839559	R3AXVYBRJMK6SK	0553103741	135474617	The Illustrated Brief History of Time, Updated and Expanded Edition	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Complex universal Issues Simplified :)	This book is the updated version of the international bestseller, so any praise on my part will surely be redundant. As such, I will just summarize what you get with this book: a fascinating intro to major physics theories (including Newton's, Einstein's general relativity, and quantum theories), and a brief overview of cosmological mysteries (including big bang and black holes). As anyone even vaguely familiar with Hawking knows, he's got a knack at making even the most abstract ideas sound remarkably simple and interesting. This book is accessible to anyone, regardless of your academic background (you will understand most of it even if you've never taken a single physics course). If you ever wondered about the physical world around you or the universe at large, you will not find a better introduction anywhere; if however, you're already well read in the subject, head straight to the more in-depth look at essentially the same concepts and more found in Greene's 'Elegant Universe.'	2002-01-13
US	51839559	R2VRQPYLYMHF2Y	0385495617	656343304	Warriors of God: Richard the Lionheart and Saladin in the Third Crusade	Books	4	5	13	N	Y	Detailed coverage of 3rd Crusade	Over a span of two hundred years, the crusader movement unleashed terror and violence through the lands of the Middle East. The wars were fought in the name of religion and noble cause between the civilizations of Islam and Christianity.  Pope Urban II of the Roman church to direct the energies of the warring European barons from their deadly disputes began the call for a quest to relinquish the holy land from the grips of Muslim. Of the five crusade wars fought only the first was successful for the west as they for a short period laid claim to Jerusalem, a revered city by both.  On gaining control, the Christians made the streets of the city run ankle deep with the blood of Muslims and Jews as noted by a chronicle.  The first crusade succeeded only because of a disunited Arab front. Of the five crusade only the third witnessed the largest military endeavor here the two brilliant generals Saladin and Richard faced one other, only to end with a disgraceful exit of Richard back to his homeland.<br />Till this date Saladin remains an epic hero of the Islamic world.  The emperor of Egypt, Syria, Arabia and Mesopotamia; the conqueror of Jerusalem; the unifier of the Arab world and the general who uprooted the invaders out of the Arab lands.  It appears that the Muslim world awaits a general to the caliber of Saladin to recapture the holy land from the present day crusader (state of Israel).  <br />For the West Richard the lion heart has become the epitome of chivalry, the knight fighting bravely for his kingdom and his church with an axe, shield and his horse.  He had a brilliant military mind and a fearsome general who understood the strategy and tactics in facing large well equipped armies. He is remembered for his bravado and chivalry. In words of Saladin<BR>\\"But he is imprudent, not to say foolishly so, in thrusting himself so frequently into danger. He shows too great a recklessness of his own life. For my part, however large the territories are where I am king; I would rather have abundance of wealth with wisdom and moderation, than display immodesty valor and rashness\\"<br />James Reston Jr. by scribing this journal has done a great service by detailing the events that occurred during the third crusade. He has maintained a very unbiased approach in his writing and has stuck with the facts alone. At times the details of this books are somewhat difficult to keep track of; but on the whole I thoroughly enjoyed this book.	2001-12-27
US	51839559	R6HEYEGPEXE97	0425179524	700964452	The True Crime Files of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Real Crime Investigations !	In 1903, there occurred an outbreak of animal maiming; farm animals were found horribly mutilated and left to die.  Obviously a sick hand was at work. George Edalji, a 30-year-old solicitor became the suspect of authorities.  At best George can be describes as a shy, anxious and physically quite frail, not exactly the hardened criminal type.  On the evening of the grave event George returned home from work to take a short stroll before dinner, that night in the field less than a mile from his home, someone disemboweled a pony and left it to die.  The police under pressure to apprehend the culprit arrested George and charged him with the crime. Conan Doyle on looking at the evidence decided a grave miscarriage of justice had occurred. Conan went out on a campaign to set the record straight and in doing so staked his reputation on the innocence of Edalji; condemned to seven years penal servitude by a country magistrate.<br />Oscar Slater a pimp, hustler and a draft dodging German, had abandoned his wife and ran away with his mistress. On the eve of December as Oscar was planning to migrate to America, a few blocks away Marion Gilchrist was murdered by an intruder after he jewels. The case against Slater was circumstantial at best. Oscar was found guilty for the crime and sentenced; despite mountain evidence proving his innocence. In this case Oscar began a letter campaign and appealed to judges to re-open the case and correct the wrongs done.<br />In both the cases Conan Doyle has shown his immense observation and deduction techniques to illustrate the grave injustice done.	2001-11-28
US	51839559	R3GHKJ2F8BZSET	1580631304	957263065	17 Lies That Are Holding You Back and the Truth That Will Set You Free	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	Energize, Create and Discover your True potential	`Immanuel Kant said that enlightment is a persons emergence from \\"Self-imposed immaturity\\", self-imposed immaturity is when we deliberately lie to ourselves and become frightened children in the face of adult challenges, instead of becoming brave men and women who are simply challenged by tasks ahead.<br /> Nelson Mandela said, \\"Our worst fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure\\"'<br /> I am 100 percent moved by this book; moved because like many of us I would lie to myself and justify an inaction with some self-defeating excuse. The fact is to the contrary there is plenty a person can do as we all have the power to do so. I was at Lance Armstrong's website and it said <BR>\\"If You Believe; You can; You will\\"	2001-11-09
US	51839559	R3USGBD1PY56R9	1568581343	371399417	The Keys to Conflict Resolution: Proven Methods of Resolving Disputes Voluntarily	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	An Excellent Survey of ADR Techniques	In The Keys to Conflict Resolution, Ted Kheel details the workings of negotiation, mediation and arbitration: the voluntary techniques of conflict resolution. In easy-to-follow language, citing examples from his own experience, he shows how the techniques can be used to produce positive results in all types of disputes. In basic, straightforward prose he lays out the Ten Commandments for mediators, arbitrators and negotiators: guidelines for generals as well as foot soldiers on the battlefield of conflict resolution - and for those of us who merely want to convince the neighbor to mow the lawn at a normal hour.	2001-10-25
US	51839559	R1SMS1QV3JCT1S	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	203	230	N	Y	Power Politics and Diplomacy	Based upon Michiavelli's first hand experience as an emissary of the Florentine Republic to the courts of Europe The Prince analyzes the often violent means by which political power is seized and retained, and the circumstance in which it is lost. Because The Prince is a political commentary, and not a work of fiction, Michiavelli does not use &quot;characters&quot; in the sense of a novel or a short story. Instead he draws his examples from the current political and social events, as well as from history. His characters are the political leaders of his time. The book is a declaration in plain language the conduct of great men and the principles of princely governments. The book can be divided into four sections.<br />1. The types of principalities. Michiavelli lists four types of principalities.<br />* Hereditary principalities, which are inherited by the ruler.<br />* Mixed principalities, territories that are annexed to the rulers existing territories.<br />* New principalities which may be acquired by several methods: by own power, by the power of others by criminal acts or extreme cruelty, or by the will of the people<br />* Ecclesiastical principalities, namely the papal states belonging to the catholic churches.<br />2. The character and behavior of the prince. Michiavelli recommends the following character and behavior for princes:<br />* It is better to be miserly than generous.<br />* It is better to be cruel than merciful.<br />* It is better to break promises if keeping than would be against ones interest.<br />* Princes must avoid making them hated and despised; the goodwill of the people is a better defense than any fortress.<br />* Princes should undertake great projects to enhance their reputation.<br />* Princes should choose wise advisors to confide and consult with<br />3. The types of armies A prince must always pay close attention to military affairs if he wants to remain in power. A prince must lay good foundation and those foundations includegood laws and good armies. There cannot be good laws without good armies, and where there are good laws there must be good armies. The study of war should be a prince's main goal, for war is a rulers only art.If princes become too refined to study this art they loose their state. The types of armies are:<br />* Mercenaries or Auxiliaries (loaned to you by another ruler) are both dangerous and unreliable, as they will maintain their interests preceding yours.<br />* Native troops composed of ones own citizens or subjects are by far the most desirable kind.<br />4. Italy's political situation Michiavelli outlines and recommends the following<br />* The rulers of Italy have lost their states by ignoring the political and military principles.<br />* Fortune controls half of human affairs, but free will controls the rest, leaving the prince free to act. However, the few princes can adopt their actions to times	2001-10-05
US	51839559	R3UDOUXMCDF2UD	014018435X	311846279	The State and Revolution (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	11	23	N	Y	The communist ideology	Lenin wrote `The State and Revolution' as the task of achieving socialism in modern industrial society. He focused on the relationship between the state and classes both in the past and in the future. He asserted that the government and their subordinate agencies were not impartial in handling conflicts amongst classes.  For him history was largely a record of class struggle and that the state in every society pursues the interests of the ruling class at the expense of society. The state for Lenin was a vehicle of exploiting the oppressed.  No ruling class allows its rule to be abolished without armed struggle therefore revolutions should be expected to be violent.  He professed the working class would have to engage in such struggle if it ever was going to gain power.  The objective for this struggle would be for the eradication of all class based discrimination.  After this privileges and antagonisms and conflicts, which they engendered, would be eliminated classes themselves would disappear.<br />Lenin affirmed the workers should dismantle the bourgeois state once power was seized; and then the state should be re-constructed after the bourgeois overthrow. The dictatorship of the proletariat would follow.  An entire intermediate epoch would separate the destruction of the power of the capitalism and the inception of the fully classless and communist society.<br />He believed to rid the tyrants a violent struggle was needed. Contrary to the beliefs of Karl Marx that socialist may be able to gain power peacefully. Lenin professed that the bourgeoisie state machine must consequently be smashed; this would be achieved with the removal of the standing army, the police, the civil service, the judiciary and the clergy. For him it was a campaign of through repression.<br />He believed that the freedom established in the freest capitalistic democracies was fully enjoyable only by the rich, who were not exhausted by the material and spiritual grind of poverty.  Lenin contended that the economies of capitalism prevented most people from influencing the politics of any capitalistic society.  Under socialism with the inception of dictatorship of the proletariat, the majority of the population would at least gain as distinct from purely formal enfranchisement.  The majority would benefit from policies ending mass poverty and would take their unprecedented opportunity to engage vigorously in politics.  The means of economic production would have stopped being privately owned.  Lenin denied that the material equality was achievable in the first phase of transition to a communist society.  The phase would be the dictatorship of the proletariat and would be typified by a pattern of wages rewarding individuals strictly in recompense for the work done by them for society.ded that the economies of capitalism prevented most people from influencing the politics of any capitalistic society.  Under socialism with the inception of dictatorship of the proletariat, the majority of the population would at least gain as distinct from purely formal enfranchisement.  The majority would benefit from policies ending mass poverty and would take their unprecedented opportunity to engage vigorously in politics.  The means of economic production would have stopped being privately owned.  Lenin denied that the material equality was achievable in the first phase of transition to a communist society.  The phase would be the dictatorship of the proletariat and would be typified by a pattern of wages rewarding individuals strictly in recompense for the work done by them for society.	2001-10-02
US	51839559	R38Y4WVT555W4Z	0195014766	459752409	The Art of War	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	The act of waging and winning Wars	Sun Tzu explores the psychological motivations for power and discipline in `Art of War'. His work is ostensibly about tactics and day to day practice of warfare. As Sun Tzu was a keen observer of human nature, `the Art of war' is filled with advise useful not only for those engaged in war but also for those carrying on their normail lives.<br />The strategic and tactical doctrines expounded in `The Art of War' are based on deception, the creation of false appearance to mystify and delude the enemy; the indirect approach; readily adaptability to the enemy situation' flexible and co-ordinate maneover of combat elements and speedy  concentration against point of weekness. The best policy is to attack the enemy plans to prevent him from acting; then disrupt his alliances; creating a wedge amongst the people in state.<br />In the `Art of War' the underlying tone is discipline.  The general has to spend considerable amount of energy in emphasizing the need for discipline. Discipline via fear is however useful only up to a point. There must be a motivating force for all people who aspire to succeed, whether in the field of business, politics, administration, government or warfare. Wars cannot be won by just mere strength but it is on a conglomeration of factors, which need to be accounted. Sun Tzu emphasizes the need to take the moral of oneself and its enemy, the environment and other barriers into consideration. The moral strength and intellectual faculty of men were decisive in war, and that if these were applied war could be waged with certain success. Never to be undertaken thoughtlessly or recklessly, war was to be preceded by measures designed to make it easy to win.  The master conqueror frustrates his enemy plans and breaks his alliances; he creates cleavages between the sovereign and minister, superior and inferiors, commanders and subordinates.  His spies and agents are active everywhere, gathering information, sowing dissention and nurturing subversion. The enemy needs to be isolated and demoralized and his will to resist broken, thus without battle his army is conquered his cities taken and his state overthrown.<br />Sun Tzu is a very vigilant and keen observers on human psychology.	2001-09-15
US	51839559	R3K88IR70JXK91	0471372471	563425110	The Ruthless Leader: Three Classics of Strategy and Power	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	The Vigilant Leader	Ruthless Leader is a compilation of three separate works `The Prince' by Niccolo Machiavelli, `The Servant' by Alistair McAlpine and `The Art of War' by Sun Tzu.  All three works have indisputably immense knowledge of their surroundings and the ploys to gain advantage over an adversary.  <br />`The Prince' teaches one the politics of holding on to power. For prince, politics is war and any deceit and chicanery is possible.  According to this principle victory must be ruthlessly sought; in the end no matter how treacherous, justifies the means.  As the following passage proves \\"How honorable is it for a prince to keep his word and act rather with integrity than collusion, I suppose everyone understands: nevertheless, experience has shown in our times that those princes who have not pinned themselves up to that punctuality and preciseness have done great things, and by their cunning and subtlety not only circumvented and darted the brains of those with whom they had to deal, but have overcome and been too hard for those who have been so superstitiously exact\\".  In this belief a state must be retained by cunning, shrewdness, deception and continued preparation for war.<br />In `The Servant', the attendant has to believe in the idea - a philosophy developed by the prince as a leader by which the state is ruled.  The servant on the back stage through diplomacy spreads the idea to gain consensus.  The Servant needs to be self-motivated and serves the prince out of loyalty to the idea rather than loyalty to the prince himself.<br />In the `Art of War' the underlying tone is discipline.  Discipline via fear is however useful only up to a point. There must be a motivating force for all people who aspire to succeed, whether in the field of business, politics, administration, government or warfare. Wars cannot be won by just mere strength but it is on a conglomeration of factors, which need to be accounted. Sun Tzu emphasizes the need to take the moral of oneself and its enemy, the environment and other barriers into consideration. The moral strength and intellectual faculty of men were decisive in war, and that if these were applied war could be waged with certain success. Never to be undertaken thoughtlessly or recklessly, war was to be preceded by measures designed to make it easy to win.  The master conqueror frustrates his enemy plans and breaks his alliances; he creates cleavages between the sovereign and minister, superior and inferiors, commanders and subordinates.  His spies and agents are active everywhere, gathering information, sowing dissention and nurturing subversion. The enemy needs to be isolated and demoralized and his will to resist broken, thus without battle his army is conquered his cities taken and his state overthrown.<br />In Ruthless Leader all three writers are very vigilant and keen observers on human psychology. A highly recommended book for all.	2001-09-12
US	51839559	R1EK9JLURX9YRI	1900251027	721716462	The Travels of Ibn Battuta	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	Beware!	First to clarify the warning. 'Travels of Ibn Batutta' is an abridged book for children. In that extent it is a well-written book with decent illustrations, enough to keep a minor entertained.<BR> I in the first place was seeking the original novel from Ibn Batutta &quot;Adventures of Ibn Batutta&quot;.	2001-09-11
US	51839559	R2MFCNMRQ55VLJ	0140245227	818466860	Beyond Machiavelli : Tools for Coping With Conflict	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	Conquering Conflict	How many times we have been in a conflict with others may it be of a personal or business in nature.  I find this text extremely useful in punctuating the loopholes and pitfalls to avoid in a conflict and means to manage it.  When in a conflict we are always trying to send a message to the other party suggesting them that there is something else they should be doing.  The text will help in the appropriate way to transfer this message across.<br />To identify the root cause of a conflict Fisher suggests that one must not be responsive but purposive.  As an example when two children are fighting the adult who breaks them apart may ask \\"why\\" they hit each other. To this the most likely response may be \\"because he hit me first\\".  But that response only explains the cause of the fight not its root cause.<br />Another key ingredient suggested by Fisher is keeping in perspective the situation and mind set the other side is facing. In a ball game it may be easy to not agree with a team change decision a coach has made.  But understanding the dynamics and pressure faced by him, we are then in a better position to critique if the decision made was correct.  If we had a chance him our opinion this added perspective can aid us to be sensitive to his situation.<br />Fisher believes that understanding how others view a conflict is knowledge that gives us strength.  It enhances our ability to influence them.  Through exploring and motivations leading up to a conflict we can increase our understanding of where their perceptions comes from.<br />No matter how much we disagree with someone we need influenced.  It is extremely important that we maintain a level of dialogue; so that we may not push the party away and be faced with a situation we never wish to face.  After the overthrow of the shah of Iran in 1979, the U.S unanimously adopted a resolution condemning the government for a hundred executions conducted by the new government.  Ironically the U.S had overlooked the thousandsof executions of political opponents done during the Shahs regime.  It was in the best interest of the U.S to keep Iran engaged and maintain some working relationship to avoid Iran being driven to the Soviet block and preventing the hostage crisis.<br />This is not a book of answers and solutions to conflicts. The tools suggested in this book are intended to ask or simulate better questions.  Better questions are not about who is right or who is wrong, or about one-hot solutions, but the process of dealing with conflicting views about right and wrong and for dealing with the inevitable changes that lie ahead. For e.g. Fisher suggests that instead of starting with the question \\"What shall I do?\\" you might want to start with such questions as \\"What would I like someone else to do?\\" and \\"What could I do that would make it easier for them to do it?\\".	2001-08-22
US	51839559	R3QJLHT5JAEZZT	8120713885	40563409	The Nautch Girl: A Novel (English and Persian Edition)	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Tale of a Courtesan	A nautch girl's freedom to choose her lover can never have been unambiguous, as Mirza Mohammed Hadi Ruswa's novel on Umrao Jan, the famous courtesan of Lucknow, amply suggests. Ruswa himself described the circumstances under which Umrao Jan Ada came to be written: one evening, at a gathering of his friends where poetry was being read and discussed, a woman from the next door apartment was heard to voice her appreciation of a couplet that Ruswa had recited.Ruswa then had a word with her; she was persuaded to join the group, where she recited a verse whose last lines were:<br /> Who will listen to the tale of my woeful heart?<br /> Far and wide have I wandered on the face of this earthAnd I have much to impart.<br />At Ruswa's prompting, Umrao related her life to him over several sittings, and those narratives Ruswa committed to writing; it is in Umrao's words, that the narrative was to find shape. Umrao had a large hand in the characterization of her own life. She had a command over words and her easy facility with poetry won her a following among the aristocratic literati of Lucknow: with her couplets she stole their hearts. <br />Kidnapped by a ruffian who sought to exact revenge for the term he had served in jail on the strength of testimony given by her father, Umrao was brought to Lucknow, and eventually sold into the establishment of Madame Khanum Jan. It was at this house of prostitution that she was to live out the greater part of her life; it was there that she was transformed from Ameeran to Umrao. Luckily, her education was entrusted to a scholar who combined his refined tastes and not inconsiderable learning with a real affection for Umrao. &quot;From the shapeless log of wood that I was,&quot; Umrao was to say, &quot;he chiselled out a civilised being&quot;; it was the Maulvi who endowed Umrao with the confidence that allowed her not merely to sit with cultured company but to &quot;command the respect and attention of wealthy aristocrats&quot;. Most significantly, the scholar nurtured her interest in poetry until it had &quot;developed into a passion&quot;, and that was the passion with which she was to etch the story of her life indelibly onto the social and cultural imagination of Lucknow.<br />As Khushwant Singh and M. A. Husaini, whose endeavors have brought Umrao Jan Ada to readers of English, point out in their introduction, Umrao Jan Ada conveys &quot;a flavour of all that was Lucknow -- its language, its poetry and music, and the way of life of its citizens&quot;. This was the city that perfected the culture of the social grace and where everyone aspired to be a poet. The very decadence of Lucknow was not merely aristocratic but inimitable. <br />Umrao Jan undoubtedly evokes some of the ambience for which Lucknow was renowned, but it is the complex characterization of Umrao and the life that she led which makes the novel memorable and significant. In Ruswa's rendering of Umrao, the courtesan is most candid about her profession: though it may well be a woman's desire to be loved, a desire that swells as she grows older, it is not given to a whore to live out this desire. A tart's only friend is her money; she is no one's wife, and if she is foolish enough to give her love to some man, she does so at the considerable risk of jeopardizing her livelihood. When Ruswa interrogates Umrao about the place of love in her life, she is quite forthright in her pronunciation of the view that in her profession &quot;love is a current coin. Whenever we want to ensnare anyone we pretend to fall in love with him.&quot; As she adds, no man ever loved her, nor did she ever love any man.<br />While Umrao's relations with the Nawab Sultan appear to belie her own profession of indifferent engagement with men, her surrender could not have been complete lest her very livelihood should have been endangered, for where was the man who would openly risk his lot with her? A 'respectable' man had a home to which he could return, and a wife to embrace, but what was the net of safety around Umrao? Whatever her fame as a singer of laments and as a dancer who could en-trance men as much by the style and substance of her poetic deliveries as by her movements, she would perforce be judged by the refinement of the pleasures that were hers to offer in bed. God might well forgive streetwalkers who repent, Umrao was to reflect, but &quot;good women never&quot; do so. They are &quot;suspicious and contemptuous of women who go astray&quot;, for &quot;however lovely a character&quot; these good women may have, and however good housekeepers these women might be, they find to their great chagrin that men &quot;will fall for a street woman who may have nothing in the way of looks, and may be wanting in all other qualities as well&quot;. Loathed by &quot;good women&quot;, and reduced ultimately by their patrons and clients to tools of their pleasure, what could these courtesans, howsoever beautiful and talented, hope for by way of some secure place within the socio-economic and cultural fabric of Indian society?<br />Umrao emerges finally as a woman with formidable reservoirs of strength, almost ponderously reflective, as she slips into old age, about the strange twists of destiny that carried her from the confined world of the hearth to a realm where, though the regimes of power were just as portent, she could experience herself as an agent. It is this wild horse of ambiguity that Umrao Jan, the novel as much as the character, rides with admirable candor.	2001-08-08
US	51839559	RCVHQO9EJRH07	1852426381	595927657	Emigr Journeys	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A poignant comedy	migr Journey is a poignant comedy of outsiders, trapped in a new culture, living in a new land, seeking an identity for themselves. Amir lured from his small village in Pakistan, looking for a better means of livelihood leaves for England.  There he finds a hostile environment, living under perpetual fear of deportation. During his initial years he dodges his life between shoddy jobs, dilapidated housing, conniving agents and longing for home. He suffers all grief with a desire for belonging to this new land and being able to attain freedom. In his quest for adaptation he compels his wife and children to adopt the English ways of life. Interestingly when years down after his children are young adults. He battles and argues with them over their free spirited and carefree mannerisms as they refuse to do as he wishes. Unable to mould their lives to his way of living; he finds himself torn by the cultural difference enshrined in his house.<br />I felt that Abdullah Hussein did an exceptional job thoroughly depicting real life scenarios that people face when migrating over from South Asia.	2001-08-04
US	51839559	R2IXIJLZ46MBPD	0965231240	931149847	Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	The prose of mortality, temporality and eternal Joy!	If anyone who can so clearly pose the question of mortality and temporality of our existence it is Omar Khayyam.  Khayyam understood the meaning of not being in control of our lives and deaths, and found the limits of our freedom.  He understood what was impotant in life. And through his life, his teachings and his Rubaiyat conveyed the meaning, though in somewhat of a cryptic form, nevertheless complee and intact to us.<br />The worldly hope men set their hearts upon<br />Turns ashes or it prospers; and anon<br />Like snow upon the deserts dusty face<br />Lighting a little hour or two is gone<br />Khayyam understood that it is our fate, our destiny, something beyond our controls to be born into this world. He also understood that death was an inevitable fate for anyone who was ever born. He understood that our bodies come from dust and clay, and return to clay.  He understood the fantasy of concerning ourselves with the future, as well as the neurosis of staying in our past. He saw that all we have is this ever slipping moment, this now, which itself has a timeless quality.<br />And we, that now make merry in the room<br />They left, and summer dresses in new bloom<br />Ourselves must we beneath the court of Earth<br />Descend, ourselves to make a couch for whom<br />He understood that in life what is important is that deeper joy and love for which we have infinite yearning, as well as capacity to both receive and emanate. His Rubaiyat force us to ask those ultimate existential questions, and lead us down a path that, unless we are lost along the way or are destabilized by the abyss which we must traverse, must inevitably reach the same answer.  The ultimate truth that in life all that matters is love and joy.<br />Ah love! Could though and I with fate conspire<br />To grasp this sorry scheme of things entire<br />Would not we shatter it to bits and then<br />Re-mould it nearer to the hearts desire!<br />On the whole Omar Khayam is an over achieving genius; besides being a poet and a philosopher; he is well regarded for this prionciples on mathematics, astronomy; he had calculated the solar calander with precise accuracy. He was knowlegeble and held discussions in sciences as medicine and chemistry.being a poet and a philosopher; he is well regarded for this prionciples on mathematics, astronomy; he had calculated the solar calander with precise accuracy. He was knowlegeble and held discussions in sciences as medicine and chemistry.	2001-07-24
US	51839559	R3KGCWI2NGG049	0312695276	931149847	Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	The prose of mortality, temporality and eternal Joy!	If anyone who can so clearly pose the question of mortality and temporality of our existence it is Omar Khayyam.  Khayyam understood the meaning of not being in control of our lives and deaths, and found the limits of our freedom.  He understood what was impotant in life. And through his life, his teachings and his Rubaiyat conveyed the meaning, though in somewhat of a cryptic form, nevertheless complee and intact to us.<br />The worldly hope men set their hearts upon<br />Turns ashes or it prospers; and anon<br />Like snow upon the deserts dusty face<br />Lighting a little hour or two is gone<br />Khayyam understood that it is our fate, our destiny, something beyond our controls to be born into this world. He also understood that death was an inevitable fate for anyone who was ever born. He understood that our bodies come from dust and clay, and return to clay.  He understood the fantasy of concerning ourselves with the future, as well as the neurosis of staying in our past. He saw that all we have is this ever slipping moment, this now, which itself has a timeless quality.<br />And we, that now make merry in the room<br />They left, and summer dresses in new bloom<br />Ourselves must we beneath the court of Earth<br />Descend, ourselves to make a couch for whom<br />He understood that in life what is important is that deeper joy and love for which we have infinite yearning, as well as capacity to both receive and emanate. His Rubaiyat force us to ask those ultimate existential questions, and lead us down a path that, unless we are lost along the way or are destabilized by the abyss which we must traverse, must inevitably reach the same answer.  The ultimate truth that in life all that matters is love and joy.<br />Ah love! Could though and I with fate conspire<br />To grasp this sorry scheme of things entire<br />Would not we shatter it to bits and then<br />Re-mould it nearer to the hearts desire!<br />On the whole Omar Khayam is an over achieving genius; besides being a poet and a philosopher; he is well regarded for this prionciples on mathematics, astronomy; he had calculated the solar calander with precise accuracy. He was knowlegeble and held discussions in sciences as medicine and chemistry.being a poet and a philosopher; he is well regarded for this prionciples on mathematics, astronomy; he had calculated the solar calander with precise accuracy. He was knowlegeble and held discussions in sciences as medicine and chemistry.	2001-07-24
US	51839559	R11N6CE9W15A1Z	1566562937	130048720	Samarkand (Interlink World Fiction)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Fictional Tale of the Rubaiyaat	The story of Samarkand is woven around the history of the manuscript of the Rubaiyaat of Omar Khayyam, from its creation by the poet and sage in eleventh-century Persia to its loss when the Titanic sank in 1912. Unwittingly involved in a brawl on the streets of Samarkand, Omar Khayyam is brought before a local judge who recognizes his genius as a poet and gives him a blank book in which to inscribe his verses. Thus the head of a great poet is saved and the Rubaiyaat of Omar Khayyam is born. The threads of his life become interwoven with the designs of the vizier, Nizam al Mulk, and of Hassan Sabbah, the founder of the Order of the Assassins who later hides the precious manuscript in his famous mountain fortress. At the end of the nineteenth century the poems fire the imagination of the West in Edward Fitzgerald's evocative translation. An American scholar learns of the manuscript's survival and recovers it with the help of a Persian princess. Together they take it on the fateful voyage of the Titanic.	2001-07-19
US	51839559	R1WOBCO020L5YA	0811212564	55342876	The Dancing Girl: A Novel (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	A courtesans tale	It is in Persian, which then was still the language of the literati, that Hasan Shah penned his tale of a \\"Dancing girl\\". Hasan Shah was, as he himself says, a man of respectable even noble birth, although the family's fortunes had suffered somewhat in the political turmoil following the invasions of Nadir Shah and Ahmad Shah Abdali, the Rohilla and Sikh wars, and the decline of the Mughal empire. He took up a position as aide-de-camp to &quot;Ming Saheb&quot;, described as &quot;a nephew of the celebrated General Coote&quot;. Also in Ming's employ was a troupe of dancing girls and musicians, and it is with a member of this troupe, the nautch girl Khanum Jan, that Hasan Shah fell in love. His love is reciprocated, and though there is an enormous gulf between the courtesan and the clerk from a bourgeois Muslim family, they have a secret wedding. Such a transgression would have been unthinkable, but for the fact that the entire atmosphere of the camp was already conducive to the flaunting of social norms; even then, Hasan Shah is unable to inform Ming of the union he has contracted with Khanum Jan, and eventually the terms of his employment lead to their separation. When at last Hasan Shah is able to effect his departure from Ming's  camp, so that he can join his wife, who had left with her troupe to seek employment elsewhere, he finds upon his arrival that Khanum Jan, unable to endure the pain of separation, has succumbed to her sickness. <br />Hasan Shah had available to him an indigenous genre, the masnavi, for the expression of romantic love and the pain of lovers, but The Nautch Girl goes far beyond the confessional mode. What makes The Nautch Girl an arresting work, in the first instance, is the mode in which it is written. The boat journey which Hasan Shah takes to join his wife is the flight of one soul in search of a like soul, the journey of the lover in search of the beloved, and as we know from the use of such imagery in bhakti poetry, a journey of this kind is fraught with hazards: the sea can be stormy, the navigator may be unskilled, the boat may sink from a leak; and when at all the boat appears to have reached the shore safely, at the very last moment it hits a rock. The path of love is just as tortuous as the road to God. All this is there, one might say, in The Nautch Girl, but Hasan Shah invests his account of the journey with fictional devices that have a most poignant effect. There is the love letter from Khanum, tied to a a bit of driftwood; then  there is the loss of a shoe at Khanum's tombstone, where Hasan Shah, having gone into a frenzy, fell into a pit; and finally a conversation between Hasan Shah and his dead wife. Hasan Shah certainly appears to have understood some of the possibilities of the novel: dialogue assumes a centrality in The Nautch Girl, and the narrative is pushed forward by having incidents which took place in the narrator's absence recounted by other witnesses.<br />The figure and characterization of Khanum Jan, however, are what eventually make the Nautch Girl a compelling work. It is not insignificant that the heroine of the first Indian 'novel' should be a dancing girl, a member of a disreputable profession. In that capacity, Khanum Jan could indulge in behavior denied to women of other classes, and most emphatically to upper-class women. She did not, for instance, observe purdah, while admitting that she found it &quot;distressing to go about unveiled&quot;. She is more compelling still as a woman of considerable wit and irony, resolute in her determination, mindful of her dignity and independence. Of course Hasan Shah places her squarely within the framework of patriarchy: thus Khanum Jan appears as the exponent of the view that men cannot be held to promises of fidelity, &quot;because it is almost impossible for a man [and only a man] to remain monogamous all his life&quot;. As an Indian woman, she will tolerate such lapses on her husband's part as might take place. But KhanumJan is not hereby compromised, for clearly Hasan Shah did not intend to depict her as a feminist; rather, she evokes certain possibilities and limits, and appears as the embodiment of a love that is freely chosen.	2001-06-27
US	51839559	R3L7B7E4PCU5YW	031220471X	123783569	Machiavelli on Modern Leadership : Why Machiavelli's Iron Rules Are As Timely and Important Today As Five Centuries Ago	Books	5	4	10	N	Y	An effective guide for strong leadership	Even after half a millennium, Machiavelli's advice to leaders is as contemporary as it was then.  He goes to the essence of power and the means to achieve it.  The struggle for power begins with the attempt to carve out a zone of freedom from others and continues with the extension of domination over others.  First comes the fight for survival or for freedom from domination, then comes the fight for ambition, which is so powerful in humans that no matter what rank they rise it never abandons them.  For Machiavelli the tools for discipline is to have a well armed force and laws enforced. Without them a nation is enfeebled and the survival of the state is mutually threatened.  In present times the balance of the two distinguishes a successful state.  There are many under developed states, which are facing extinction due to non-enforcement of the laws, as corruption takes precedence.  <br />At times it is necessary for a good man to perform evil acts, even to accomplish a honourable result.  Consider the case of Turkey in the late 1970's when the nation was inundated by a terrorist wave without precedent.  The feeble multi party democracy was unable to deal with the excruciating terror. The military seized power; in the next two years 50,000 people were arrested on charges of corruption.  Turkey was denounced for its repression and violation of human rights.  In all evil methods were used to achieve a noble task.  In the mid 50's-60's, human rights were sacrificed in places like Malaysia, Taiwan, and Singapore by an authoritative rule to ensure the progress of the nation.<br />Ledeen's \\"Machiavelli on modern leadership\\" is an account of Machiavelli's beliefs tied with situations in present times.	2001-06-19
US	51839559	R2FYCLCO18PNXN	0395393884	813383376	The Fourth Dimension: A Guided Tour of the Higher Universes	Books	1	21	58	N	N	Illusion or Reality???	The idea that we live in a world with more than three dimensions is a tantalizing one, and generally, just thinking about the subject for a while can leave one with an achy head.   Rucker attempts to explain the concept of fourth dimension by dissecting the world in lesser dimensions, then using the analogies to expand the world in higher levels of existence. He has done a marvelous effort in depicting the world in higher dimensions.  What is left unanswered is does a Fourth dimension even exist. Is it an illusion or reality?<br />For this review I will briefly explain the grounds on which he describes the fourth dimension. A complex three-dimensional shape is really an infinite number of simpler two-dimensional shapes stacked on top of each other. For instance, if you slice the top off of a pyramid and look at just the two dimensional plane at the top, you see a small triangle. Chopping off another layer results in another, slightly larger triangle. Stacking progressively smaller triangles on top of each other results in our three-dimensional shape of a pyramid. <br />This is the same concept of what a two-dimensional being would see if a pyramid were to travel through its plane. First it would see a point appear out of nowhere, then it would expand into a larger and larger triangle, finally just disappearing into thin air as the pyramid moved on. Actually, what it would see is dependent on the angle the pyramid intersects the plane, and whether it's rotating. It might also see a line appear, morph into a trapezoid, and then shrink into a tiny point and disappear. <br />By continuing our expansion in the same manner as we've been discussing, we end up with a reality of four dimensions. A being in the fourth dimension sees our three-dimensional world as an infinitely thin slice of reality. If you were looking at something from a four-dimensional viewpoint, you'd be able to see not only every outside surface of the object simultaneously, but also whatever's containedin the object. A being with four physical dimensions might travel through our three-dimensional plane, and if we saw it, it would look like a strange object appearing out of nowhere, morphing in shape for a while, and then disappearing. <br />I felt that Rucker has taken an over simplified view of 4D by giving the pyramid (3-D) example. But what he fails to account is when the 3D object is morphing through the 2D space it will create disruptions and distortions in 2D space.  In the same manner an object living in a 4D space will create the same distortions when morphing through 3D space. Such distortions have not been accounted for in any scientific works and if they did occur would have been paid due attention.	2001-05-20
US	51839559	R2KGX6FNNTEGOF	0860916766	501775230	Shadows of the Pomegranate Tree (The Islam Quintet)	Books	4	103	111	N	Y	A historic fiction tale of the Moors in Spain	Ali's \\"Shadow of the Pomegranate Tree\\" provides not only a great reading, but an extremely useful corrective to the general western misconception about Muslim society. His work while a fiction, has clearly been thoroughly researched. The openness, tolerance and cosmopolitanism of Islamic society during the Moorish period is clearly presented with accents and touches that ring true.  While westerners are inclined to view Islam as a monolithic entity, Ali brings out the division and tension that existed within the societies of each period.<br /> \\"Shadows of the Pomegranate Tree\\" is set in Spain after the fall of Granada. The story of the Banu Hudayl, a landed aristocratic family, the book explores the fateful decision that the Muslims of Spain had to make in the aftermath of the Reconquista. Shadows opens with the Muslim community having been recently  shaken by the burning of their books on the order of Ximenes de Cisneros, Isabella's confessor. Sent to Granada to debate theology, Cisneros was verbally bested by the Muslim scholars. Defeated, he ordered all Muslim books to be destroyed two million manuscripts burned. \\"They set our culture on fire...The record of eight centuries was annihilated in one day\\", Umar the head of the Hudayl, laments. The only books to be saved from this wanton destruction were 300 medical and scientific works, spared by the petitions of Christian scholars who realized their superiority, and those books that the soldiers carrying them to the square discarded, judging the books' importance by their weight.<br />Cisneros, a man of the church is hell bent on destroying all vestiges of the Muslim society and culture in Granada. He sees force as the only way to win the conversion of the Muslims to Christianity, unlike his predecessor, who had given orders for the priests to learn Arabic and have Christian works translated. Yet his actions also have a personal element, as others whisper about his apparent Jewish features. Cisneros cruelty is interestingly contrasted to the outlook of Don Ignio, the civilian governor of the Granada region, and a life long friend of Umar's. Don's entrouge consisted of Jewish and Moors, and he tells Umar \\"For me a Granada without them is like a desert without Oasis. But I am on my own\\" When Umar comments that the current situation would never have arisen had the Moors used the same tactics that the Christian were now employing, Dons's response is: \\"Instead you attempted to bring civilization to the whole peninsula regardless of faith or creed. It was noble of you now you must pay the price.\\"<br />The reason I find this an excellent read is because Ali treats western history with the same thoroughness and brutal honesty, he demolishes the myth that the episode was a victory of one sort or the other of western society, simply by incorporating facts into the narrative. The triumphalism and sheer blood thirstiness of the Christian west is underscored most clearly in \\"Shadows of the Pomegranate Tree\\".	2001-05-16
US	51839559	R1Z9XJFUS4GZ7S	0882530763	790637839	The Courtesan of Lucknow	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The courtesan of Lucknow	A nautch girl's freedom to choose her lover can never have been unambiguous, as Mirza Mohammed Hadi Ruswa's novel on Umrao Jan, the famous courtesan of Lucknow, amply suggests. Ruswa himself described the circumstances under which Umrao Jan Ada came to be written: one evening, at a gathering of his friends where poetry was being read and discussed, a woman from the next door apartment was heard to voice her appreciation of a couplet that Ruswa had recited. Ruswa then had a word with her; she was persuaded to join the group, where she recited a verse whose last lines were:<br />        &quot;Who will listen to the tale of my woeful heart?         Far and wide have I wandered on the face of this earth         And I have much to impart.&quot;<br />At Ruswa's prompting, Umrao related her life to him over several sittings, and those narratives Ruswa committed to writing; it is in Umrao's words, that the narrative was to find shape. Umrao had a large hand in the characterization of her own life. She had a command over words and her easy facility with poetry won her a following among the aristocratic literati of Lucknow: with her couplets she stole their hearts.  Kidnapped by a ruffian who sought to exact revenge for the term he had served in jail on the strength of testimony given by her father, Umrao was brought to Lucknow, and eventually sold into the establishment of Madame Khanum Jan. It was at this house of prostitution that she was to live out the greater part of her life; it was there that she was transformed from Ameeran to Umrao. Luckily, her education was entrusted to a scholar who combined his refined tastes and not inconsiderable learning with a real affection for Umrao. &quot;From the shapeless log of wood that I was,&quot; Umrao was to say, &quot;he chiselled out a civilised being&quot;; it was the Maulvi who endowed Umrao with the confidence that allowed her not merely to sit with cultured company but to &quot;command the respect and attention of wealthy aristocrats&quot;.  Most significantly, the scholar nurtured her interest in poetry until it had &quot;developed into a passion&quot;, and that was the passion with which she was to etch the story of her life indelibly onto the social and cultural imagination of Lucknow.<br />As Khushwant Singh and M. A. Husaini, whose endeavors have brought Umrao Jan Ada to readers of English, point out in their introduction, Umrao Jan Ada conveys &quot;a flavour of all that was Lucknow -- its                    language, its poetry and music, and the way of life of its citizens&quot;. This was the city that perfected the culture of the social grace and where everyone aspired to be a poet. The very decadence of Lucknow not merely aristocratic but inimitable. <br />Umrao Jan undoubtedly evokes some of the ambience for which Lucknow was renowned, but it is the complex characterization of Umrao and the life that she led which makes the novel memorable and significant. In Ruswa's rendering of Umrao, the courtesan is most candid about her profession: though it may well be a woman's desire to be loved, a desire that swells as she grows older, it is not given to a whore to live out this desire. A tart's only friend is her money; she is no one's wife, and if she is foolish enough to give her love to some man, she does so at the considerable risk of jeopardizing her livelihood. When Ruswa interrogates Umrao about the place of love in her life, she is quite  forthright in her pronunciation of the view that in her profession &quot;love is a current coin. Whenever we want to ensnare anyone we pretend to fall in love with him.&quot; As she adds, no man ever loved her, nor did she ever love any man.<br />While Umrao's relations with the Nawab Sultan appear to belie her own profession of indifferent engagement with men, her surrender could not have been complete lest her very livelihood should have been endangered, for where was the man who would openly risk his lot with her? A 'respectable' man had a home to which he could return, and a wife to embrace, but what was the net of safety around Umrao? Whatever her fame as a singer of laments and as a dancer who could en-trance men as much by the style and substance of her poetic deliveries as by her movements, she would  perforce be judged by the refinement of the pleasures that were hers to offer in bed. God might well forgive streetwalkers who repent, Umrao was to reflect, but &quot;good women never&quot; do so. They are &quot;suspicious and contemptuous of women who go astray&quot;, for &quot;however lovely a character&quot; these good women may have, and however good housekeepers these women might be, they find to their great chagrin that men &quot;will fall for a street woman who may have nothing in the way of looks, and may be wanting in all other qualities as well&quot;. Loathed by &quot;good women&quot;, and reduced ultimately by their patrons and clients to tools of their pleasure, what could these courtesans, howsoever beautiful and talented, hope for by way of some secure place within the socio-economic and cultural fabric of Indian society?<br />Umrao emerges finally as a woman with formidable reservoirs of strength, almost ponderously reflective, as she slips into old age, about the strange twists of destiny that carried her from the confined world of the hearth to a realm where, though the regimes of power were just as portent, she could experience herself as an agent. It is this wild horse of ambiguity that Umrao Jan, the novel as much as the character, rides with admirable candor	2001-04-21
US	51839559	R2SESAOEV93SIP	014019553X	675572194	The Beloved: Reflections on the Path of the Heart (Compass)	Books	4	21	24	N	Y	Reflections on the path of the heart	For Khalil Gibran, love was a way  perhaps a supreme way of achieving self-realization and completeness as a human being. Anyone can live their life transformed by the all consuming power of an encounter with \\"The Beloved\\". Particularly in the  Eastern cultures there are people trapped in joyless or organized marriages; their passions sacrificed to convention. It is these segments of people that Gibran has brilliantly targeted.  Gibran can write very complex social issues in quite simple terms. He can make these issues in a way that can make the reader feel one is taking a walk in a quiet wood, or bathing in a cool stream.<br />During the course of his reading one can observe that Gibran is a fervernt and outspoken champion of the cause of human rights. He has waged a struggle to strengthen the recognition of youth's freedom of action in love, and abolish from the social structure some of the prevailing ancient marriage customs. He has a strong condemnation of traditions of pre-arranged marriages of children by their parents, in complete disregard of the wishes of those so betrothed.<br />The ill-fated story of Lyla in `The Brides Bed' is an eye witness account recorded by Khalil. Lyla with courage, anguish and heroism broke in fury from this custom. She brought as a result on her self  consequences extremely tragic. This is best described in Khalil's prose:<br />\\"... Come you cowards!  Fear not the specter of death whose greatness will refuse to approach your littleness and dread not this dagger, for it is a divine instrument which declines to touch your filthy bodies and empty hearts. Look at this handsome youth, he is my beloved and I killed him because I love him. .... We sought a bed worthy of our love in this world which you have made so small with your ignorance and traditions. .... Then the bride lifted her dagger towards the sky, and like a thirsty person who brings the edge of a drinking glass to her lips, she bought it down and planted it in her chest...\\"<br />In the `Vision' he describes the social convention issue faced by one:<br />\\".. I am a lost human heart, imprisoned in the foul dungeons of mans dictates; tied with chains of earthly authority, dead and forgotten by laughing humanity whose tounge is tied and whose eyes are empty of visible tears. ...\\".\\" <br />In the `Vision' he describes the social convention issue faced by one:<br />\\".. I am a lost human heart, imprisoned in the foul dungeons of mans dictates; tied with chains of earthly authority, dead and forgotten by laughing humanity whose tounge is tied and whose eyes are empty of visible tears. ...\\"	2001-04-17
US	51839559	R1GWS8PNE6OFS0	1860464467	750150871	Ports of Call	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Ports Of Call	The novel is the story of two ill-starred lovers in the Middle East. Ossyane, the principle narrator a muslim Ottoman prince and a hero of the french revolution and his beloved Clara a jew. Ossyane is a name which means `Rebellion' or \\"Disobedience'. When Ossyane's father gave him that name it represented a protest of an aristocratic but liberal man against history of sectarianism and violence that had characterized the world inherited from his Ottoman ancestors.<br />Ossyane tells of how he went to France, to become a doctor but instead became an accidental hero. He briefly meets Clara whom he meets again back home after the war. They marry in the after math of WWII; unfortunately the chaotic dislocations that ensure keep them apart for quarter of a century, during which time the prince is unjustly committed to a mental asylum of the insane. The marriage is presented here as an exemplary rejection of suspicion and hatred between people, most particulary in the Middle East.	2001-04-17
US	51839559	R2MI6QIZGT6WS2	0805208984	641548887	The Crusades Through Arab Eyes (Saqi Essentials)	Books	5	8	14	N	Y	Saladin - The Machiavelli Prince	Amin Maalouf in &quot;The Crusades Through Arab Eyes&quot; presents an unbiased account of the events occurred from the time crusaders set foot in the East. In this document he has combed the works of arab chronicles, many of them eye witness and participants in the events described. Marred by internal dissent ion and conflicts, the muslin cities became victims to a more organized alien force on their borders preying on the prized Jerusalem. The arabs having lost crucial cities of Syria, Asia Minor (present Turkey) and Jerusalem there was a prevalent sense of disarray and dis-orientation. Saladin a brilliant strategist and tactician, utilized every honorable means to undo the damage done and regain the lost territories. Under this dynamic general the muslims, from Egypt to Syria united under one banner and gave resistance to the ambitions of the alien force. Even thought the fall of Jerusalem is credited to Saladin, the very initial seeds of re-unification were begun by Zanghi and Nur-Uldin both Turkish generals, preceding Saladin.<br />`My uncle Shirkuh turned to me and said &quot; Yusuf, pack your things were going&quot;, when i heard this order, I felt as if my heart had been pierced by a dagger, and i answered &quot;In Gods name, even where i granted the entire kingdom of Egypt, I would not go&quot;. The man who spoke these wordswas none other than Saladin recounting the timid beginnings of the adventure that some day make him one of the history's most prestigious sovereigns.<br />The arab word seemingly won a stunning victory. If the west had sought, through its successive invasions to contain the thrust of islam, the result was exactly opposite. Not only were the Frankish states of middle east uprooted after two centuries of colonization, but the muslims had so completely gained the upper hand that not long after this they would seek to conquer Europe itself. In 1453 they took Constantinople and by 1529 their cavalry was encamped at the walls of Vienna.	2001-03-28
US	51839559	R1PKNFN2P8FB0P	1874166994	349048775	Introducing Descartes	Books	1	7	16	N	Y	Immensely Disappointing	I fail to understand the purpose of this book. My intent for this purchase was to get an introduction to Descarte's philosophy. To my utter disappointment, i found this book lacking any materials to this regards. The illustrations i found rather childish and annoying. There is no mention of Descarte's philosophy or any other subject that can add value or interest to a serious reader. I am extremely disappointed with this book, every page has an unnecessary illustration, these illustrations have no relevance to the subject. If the illustrations were removed the entire book can fit in 3 pages.	2001-03-15
US	51839559	R3283XYMTXQWZV	1562790889	596342953	Thirst: The Desert Trilogy	Books	3	2	6	N	Y	A vivid drama of characterization	In this work, Herevan completes her tales of the Jews' wandering during the time of the biblical exodus. The three novellas included here are linked by theme, setting, and style. In the desert trilogy Hareven brings to life many of the same issues-justice, Jewish identity, application of religious tenets in real life-explored in her nonfiction<br />&quot;The Miracle Hater&quot; deals with the earliest Israelites, the Children of Israel fleeing Egypt under the leadership of the remote and aloof Moses. It involves Eshkar, a young man who is kept from his beloved Baita by strict Jewish elders. When Baita falls ill and dies, Eshkar decides &quot;he wanted nothing more to do with God&quot; until his faith is restored.<br />&quot;The Prophet,&quot; about a Gibeonite who loses his powers of prophecy when his people need them the most, is hindered by the lack of convincing character development.The plot is set in the ancient landscape of the Judean hills, with the Gibeonites and Israelites as antagonists.<br />&quot;After Childhood,&quot; presents a strong female character, Moran-a woman from the mountains who brings strength and purpose to her husband's desert village. This sequence of the trilogy offers a female perspective on life in a Jewish desert village. Moran, a shy young woman from the mountains, agrees to marry a longtime bachelor, Salu, so she can move to the desert she's always dreamed of. When Salu is unfaithful, Moran finds solace in her family and land.	2001-03-15
US	51839559	R1M87GST14EXA2	0385469012	186496546	Arabian Nights and Days: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	Illusion or Reality?	I found myself distracted with a nagging question whether the narration was an illusion or reality. The novel is a loosely set of tales, where each chapter is self contained describing the experiences of a character. The plot converges at the `Cafe of the Emirs'. The characters are faced with an adventure in which they appear to find more about themselves. In this adventure they are tempted with their weakness, there is a self struggle where they determine to take the path of choice. It is this path which can lead to their destruction or bliss. The apparent conflicts are in the nature of corruption, self righteousness, lust, greed.<br /> This is my second read from Naquib Mahfuz, he boldly exposes the true realities and choices one faces and makes in every day life. Due to this i found the book somewhat depressing.	2001-03-14
US	51839559	R1112RL10EZLOC	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	41	48	N	Y	Power Politics and Diplomacy	Based upon Michiavelli's first hand experience as an emissary of the Florentine Republic to the courts of Europe The Prince analyzes the often violent means by which political power is seized and retained, and the circumstance in which it is lost. Because The Prince is a political commentary, and not a work of fiction, Michiavelli does not use &quot;characters&quot; in the sense of a novel or a short story. Instead he draws his examples from the current political and social events, as well as from history. His characters are the political leaders of his time. The book is a declaration in plain language the conduct of great men and the principles of princely governments. The book can be divided into four sections.<br />1. The types of principalities.      Michiavelli lists four types of principalities.<br />     * Hereditary principalities, which are inherited by the           ruler.<br />     * Mixed principalities, territories that are annexed to the          rulers existing territories.<br />     * New principalities which may be acquired by several           methods: by own power, by the power of others by criminal         acts or extreme cruelty, or by the will of the people<br />     * Ecclesiastical principalities, namely the papal states           belonging to the catholic churches.<br />2. The character and behavior of the prince.      Michiavelli recommends the following character and behavior for princes:<br />     * It is better to be miserly than generous.<br />     * It is better to be cruel than merciful.<br />     * It is better to break promises if keeping than would be           against ones interest.<br />     * Princes must avoid making them hated and despised; the           goodwill of the people is a better defense than any           fortress.<br />     * Princes should undertake great projects to enhance their         reputation.<br />     * Princes should choose wise advisors to confide and consult         with<br />3. The types of armiesA prince must always pay close attention to military affairs if he wants to remain in power. A prince must lay good foundation and those foundations include good laws and good armies. There cannot be good laws without good armies, and where there are good laws there must be good armies. The study of war should be a prince's main goal, for war is a rulers only art.If princes become too refined to study this art they loose their state. The types of armies are:<br />     * Mercenaries or Auxiliaries (loaned to you by another           ruler) are both dangerous and unreliable, as they will           maintain their interests preceding yours.<br />     * Native troops composed of ones own citizens or subjects           are by far the most desirable kind. <br />4. Italy's political situation      Michiavelli outlines and recommends the following<br />     * The rulers of Italy have lost their states by ignoring the         political and military principles.<br />     * Fortune controls half of human affairs, but free will           controls the rest, leaving the prince free to act.           However, the few princes can adopt their actions to times	2001-03-08
US	51839559	RM58U42U40VAU	0374213542	594654916	Moth Smoke	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Excellent read	A very refreshing novel. On reading it i could not stop but reminisce of the times i spent back home. Hamid hits the social strata in south asia perfectly. On one hand you have the jet-set (mobile phones, pajeros, personal power generators, industrialists, Johnny Walker, yuppie parties) and on the other there are the rest (analog phones, suzukis, power breakdowns, wage earners, russian vodka, gate crashers).<br />The novel circles around Daru who falls from grace by getting himself fired. After this he finds himself in an endless social decline only to end up with a career in crime. In this endeavor he takes his drug peddler Murad Badshah as a partner in crime. When a long planned heist goes awry Daru finds himself on a trial for a murder he may or may not have committed. ....	2001-02-21
US	51839559	R2NCFKNMJMFZCZ	0451527100	201213691	The Communist Manifesto (Signet Classics)	Books	4	26	39	N	Y	An alternate economic &amp; political system?	Marx's &quot;Communist Manifesto&quot; is a response to human cost of Industrial Revolution. It was a time when Europe was coming of age, with the development of modern industry and the potential world market. This market had an immense development to commerce, to navigation and to industry. These improvements were enacted at a cost of society as a whole divided into two hostile camps -the bourgeoise and the proletariat. Marx immersed himself into the suffrage of the new urban proletariat at the hands of bourgeoise modern capitalist. His solution lay in the abolition of private property living in a society where all are equal.<br />I found this document an interesting read, as this short concise book simply explains the &quot;theory&quot; of one economic system. It should be noted the democracy prevalent at the time of this books introduction closely resembled an oligarchy, in which the rich and powerful ruled the weak. The impact of socialist ideology on this situation was great: labor movements were created, egalitarianism became a greater part of democracy ideology and the lower classes became more significant to the political system than they had ever been before.<br />The greatest weakness one can note of Marx's argument, is his failure to predict the significance of the middle class in the nations. Marx's view was that the middle class would either be absorbed into the working class or proprietors. The success of the middle class in present times accounts for the failure of Marx's theory.	2001-02-20
US	51839559	R1J49SHVGS7SPC	1859842313	407999104	The Book of Saladin: A Novel	Books	4	21	22	N	Y	A superb historical fiction	Tariq Ali's &quot;The Book of Saladin&quot; is a rich and teeming chronicle set in the twelfth-century Cairo, Damascus and Jerusalem. The Book of Saladin is a fictional memoir of Saladin, the Kurdish liberator he Muslim leader during the Crusades, was one of the best known figures of the Middle Ages. The West accepted him as a worthy opponent; Islam was indebted to him for the recovery of Jerusalem. Ali brilliantly weaves a fiction tale around the historical figure Saladin.<br />Saladin grants permission to Ibn Yakub, his jewish scribe to walk to his wife and retainers so that he may portray a complete picture of his memories. A series of interconnected stories follow, tale brimming over with warmth, earthly humour and passions in which ideals clash with realities and dreams are confounded by desires. At the heart of the novel is an affecting love affair between the Sultans favorite wife, Jamila and the beautiful Halima.<br />The novel charts the course of Saladin as Sultan of Egypt and Syria and follows him as he prepares in alliance with his Jewish and Christian subjects to take Jerusalem back from the Crusaders.	2001-02-12
US	51839559	R26HYITD7V6PUY	0385499221	73543922	The Day the Leader Was Killed	Books	5	15	21	N	Y	Life In Egypt	Najib Mahfouz in his compact dry story details the hardships faced by the people of Egypt from the economic liberation. Intifah, Anwar Sadat's open-door economic policy has increased disparities between the rich and poor, creating havoc in lives of its citizens. In this economic meltdown is Fawad and his fiance Randa whose commitment for each other is tested by realities of times.<br />In a subtle undertone, this novel has reflections to the struggle faced by masses presently in the middle east. Interesting aspect of this novel are the personal battles faced between self righteousness vs corruption, advancements vs traditions.	2001-02-07
US	51839559	R1VHKNFGL27ZNX	0394588169	392304217	Jurassic Park	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Quest for survival	Jurassic Park a fast paced eventful nail bitting science fiction adventure by Michael Crichton. Did i forget thrilling. This indeed is an exciting and suspenseful read. It is one of those writing that interests one with its detailed plot and manages to maintain the interest along the way. Crichton explains the scientific detail quite well, which is why it has this addictive allure making it difficult to put down. The novel is a master piece which shy's Spieldbergs movie as an embarrassingly shallow cheap mimic.<br />The setting is at a tropical island off the coast of Costa Rica named Isla Nubla. A determined mercenary John Hammond in midst of realizing his capitalistic dream. An adventure park on a theme of Safari but housing cloned dinosaurs. InGen a silicon valley based company have developed a novel approach for realization of this cloning. Dino's DNA is extracted from blood inside pre-historic mosquitoes that were trapped in tree sap and fossilized into amber. By this means the scientists have cloned a range of these extinct species, allowed to roam freely in their enclaves. To prevent procreation all dinosaurs are cloned females. Added precautions are taken that if by chance one beast manages to escape their demise is eventful due to a purposefully inserted genetic flaw. The flaw is their dependence on an amino acid lysine, which is provided as nutrients in their diet. Unaccounted, uncontrolled events lead to a break down of the defenses on the park. Much to the prediction of the chaos mathematician who arduously argues the infeasibility of the park, only to face a deaf ear of John. From entertainment the quest is now for survival as the carnivorous mammals roam freely preying on the helpless visitors. <br />If amazon would allow me more stars, I would gladly gift them all to rate JP.	2001-02-01
US	51839559	R260HNGBFCZWUT	0134516753	868058013	Verilog HDL	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A useful handy reference	Verilog is my preference in coding HDL. This book is detailed enough for a beginner, and helps the more experienced, as a organized, quick handy reference book. It doesn't go into much gory details in examples, which i feel is helpful. It lacks detail in coding techniques for synthesis. The PLI topics are just breezed through. <br />In general a good guide in Verilog.	2001-02-01
US	51839559	R15F7DQBRL7ZFW	1859847641	437376880	The Stone Woman	Books	5	28	33	N	Y	Seductively Enchanting	A friend recommended this book, and i am so pleased that she did. What a novel i am absolutely swayed by it. Stone Woman my first of Tariq Ali, but certainly not the last. I read with initial resistance, but was lured to it from the first page. Mystically he draws the attention with the words which encapsulates the reader as a silent observer witnessing the developments in the palace of Pasha. One is drawn away from present times and transcends to the era of Ottomon empire's decadence.   <br />I found the characters in this narration to have immense depth, which is delieved in part by confessions. Confessions are made to a small rock resembling a pagan goddess. Secrets are divulged to the goddess which sheds a light on the mental and emotional state of the character. Another luring aspect of this novel are the discussions by the characters. Rational, religion, philosophy and the creation of the future republic to be carved from Ottomon Empire are debated. <br />The narration has an expanse of seduction, rebellion, confessions, betrayal, rational, arguments, religion, treachery and conspiracy. It is to these reasons i find the text rich in prose.	2001-01-29
US	51839559	R1G0DK3R8D0XLR	0425173534	464702962	SSN	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Boringly Repetitive	The SSN's plot is an eye catcher which drew me to read it. A very realisticly tense situation emerges by a daring attack by Chinese to control the Spartly island. This emerges to a confrontation with U.S in shape of an undeclared war in Pacific. With this the chapter ends and so could the novel.<br />I felt Chancy could have elaborated more on the prevalent tension, instead of derailing into a seemingly repetitive plot of the sole submarine USS CHEYENNE which brings the entire Chinese fleet to the ground. Cheyenne could be faced against a chinese task force of sixty ships or the most sophisticated submerged adversary the outcome from the skirmishes were the same. The cowboys embellish yet another victory. The Chinese navy is masked as un-intelligent and un-strategic foes resembling to a navy of a banana republic. These ramblings continue on for the rest of the book until the captain of the submarine is decorated with an admiral rank. <br />I have the utmost regard for Clancy's writing, but this certainly is not his exalted piece.	2001-01-26
