US	51837691	R2YZE2O7S3ZG9V	0684852691	373427782	Hamlet's Dresser: A Memoir	Books	5	9	11	N	N	'It adds a precious seeing to the eye'	BOB SMITH LOVES   Shakespeare, loves words. He observes his mother in the chilly chiaroscuro of the front seat of the family Buick. In snow he stands waiting numb for number 23 cross-town. <br />Bob traverses New York to deliver his own-styled classes on Shakespeare to groups of seniors, making the bard relevant for them, making his words live and breath as he  mines the entire oeuvre with its frequent references to their own life experiences and problems. While seniors nod in recognition, he reads from  Henry V, `A good leg will fall, a stringent back will stoop, a black beard will turn white, a fair face will wither.` <br />While Smith tells of how he found his place in the sun, out of the sun, starting humbly as Hamlet`s dresser in Stratford, Connecticut, he uses quotes so proficiently, they never appear pretentious. He introduces us to his severely challenged younger sister, cleverly quoting the Queen`s speech from Hamlet concerning troubled Ophelia. <br />Remarkable for a young person, Smith devotes endless hours to his sister`s comfort. Coping with her brings powerful emotions to the beginning third of the book. His mother`s mind wanders too, so he dives into Macbeth: Not so sick, my Lord, as she is troubled with thick-coming fancies. <br />In this memorable mélange,  Smith reveals unusual portraits of theatre greats for whom he worked, including Katharine Hepburn, Bert Lahr, John Houseman, Robert Ryan. However, he returns frequently to etch for us another memorable picture of the elderly sinking into the farrago of old age, looking for and finding safety, acceptance and recognition in Smith`s unique propagations.	2002-06-08
US	51837691	R2NA4SXEU40K0P	0743228022	107247897	Dirt Music: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An Australian Masterwork	STEP MOTHER! The words spit from a nine-year-old and affect Georgia Jutland like a blow from a stingray. She can only turn away in tears. She lives in an uneasy relationship with the widowed Jim Buckridge and his two young sons. <br />A strong leader, Georgia`s husband cornered the lucrative local lobster trade, and became rich. Jim is protective of his business, especially against interlopers to whom mysterious accidents happen. He works hard not to become like his sadistic father, and fear of this happening haunts him. We are in rugged Western Australia, where a frontier style of life prevails.<br />This puts Georgia in triple danger when she throws herself into a clandestine affair with an outcast Luke Fox, (known as Lu.) Neither has achieved anything close to self-actualization by age 40, and, worse, unable to conclude what it is they want out of life, and their affair, their pasts burden them like credit card debt. <br />Georgia is a tomboy who leaves home when she finds her father uses her as a display of his own success. Lu is a poacher, and therefore in danger from the fishing community. He is also a musician who tries to run away from his music because of a family tragedy. They come together, and part, like moon-influenced ocean currents.<br />Tim Winton`s skills show in both plotting and writing; this is not recycled Rhett Butler and Scarlett O`Hara, Heathcliff and Catherine, or the old Bette Davis videos, that Jim and Georgie watch, so we do not know where Jim, Luke and Georgie will wind up, in fact we will not find out until we reach the last word on page 407 of the book`s 407 pages! <BR> <BR>Clever!	2002-06-08
US	51837691	R1JPVY5IL9S30T	0066213347	181713269	The Sweetest Dream: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	London's Post-WWII Youth awaken to the mess they made	IN THE SWEETEST DREAM the author creates an irresistible force. She objectively explores the confusion of swinging London`s post-WWII children as they boogie through the night in the 1960s and, exhausted, drift into pot-sweetened dreams before awakening a decade later to clean up the social mess left behind. She demonstrates how this decade was a different experience for men than for women. Lessing`s grasp of the issues and her political thrust prove remarkable. Lessing is 82.<br />Her protoganist Frances Lennox cannot say no. An Earth Mother, she supports an extended family that includes drop-ins and drop-outs, while her loquacious, intellectual ex-husband, a speech leech, avoids family responsibility as he steals their food and lectures them on how to save the world. A journalist, Frances tolerates too much. Through her and Lessing`s other well-crafted characters we see the themes that disturb the author. Action sweeps forward to Africa, and back to the life of Frances`s mother-in-law in the 1930s. <br />All the above is opposite to The American Dream. Doris Lessing unearths the vacuity of dreams that, sad to say, end up mocking us. This provocative novel probes passionately into its subject. Yet, its readability maintains around-the-kitchen-table accessibility.	2002-06-08
US	51837691	R3HFLBNMGA1055	0374168253	585136619	The Haunting of L.	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Morality and Responsibility	CONAN DOYLE WAS AMONG many of the  famous who  believed in Spirit Pictures in the 1920s and 1930s.These pictures consisted of regularly developed photographs onto which -abracadabra!- pictures of dear departed ones attached themselves supernaturally.They gained a Victorian following, and fooled many an intellectual.  <br />Author Howard Norman, of Vermont, visits this strange belief in the last of his welcome Canadian trilogy.It oozes creativity, and lies outside usual mystery formulas.    <br />Peter Duvell, a young Canadian, arrives in 1927 in Hudson's Bay to become assistant to a renowned photographer named Vienna. Vienna's new wife, Kala, seduces Peter (on her wedding night!) <br />Through her, Peter loses his innocence and falls under her spell. He joins her in a passionate interest in Spirit Pictures, and attends her lectures on the subject.<br />He finds out that Vienna is engaged in dubious activities that gradually become more evil. These eventually go beyond what either of the two adulterers can imagine, and involve a strange religious millionaire. <br />Norman creates a strong sense of menace hanging over his unusual characters. His fine novel explores themes of  morality, responsibility, ethics, and of turning a blind eye --all within a suspenseful read.	2002-03-18
US	51837691	R2XGJYMCQ319UJ	0393010430	1686231	The Sisters: The Saga of the Mitford Family	Books	4	3	5	N	N	From Adolph to Omega	'I love the Mitford sisters for their sins,' volunteered a voice on phone-in radio. Debo Mitford learned in 1937 that her sister Unity was smitten with Adolph Hitler. Unity sent der Fuhrer an invitation to her wedding, to be held in the office of a reluctant Goring. Obliging Adolph happily left his duties and trotted along. <br />Hitler and Unity managed, in all, 140 get-togethers. She felt so strongly in agreement with der Fuhrer that she wrote Churchill (a relative) to lay off his fierce speeches in British Parliament attacking Adolph. In Germany she published a newspaper hate-article denouncing all Jews. It endeared her to the Nazi party, as was Unity's  intention. <br />When war broke out with Germany, Unity was so upset with people misunderstanding her sweet petty-pie, that she attempted suicide. She appears the most eccentric of the six clever, talented (four were writers,) and beautiful sisters. Their collective politics, however, amounted to a bouillabaisse with fish hooks in it. <br />Jessica became a Communist. For her outspoken Fascism, Diana was stuffed in jail.  Nancy (the eldest) and Jessica churned out best-selling novels; two of these appeared recently in TV adaptations. <br />There are a generous 24 pages of black and white photographs included in the book. Many of these are dour, especially considering that the sisters were known for their humour. Even the family portrait (photo #24) is severe, and Decca (who later eloped) is an unhappy debutante in her photo, #37. <br />Mary S. Lovell's splendid biography is the definitive saga of this famous family that gripped the English nation for several decades sins and all.	2002-03-14
US	51837691	R900S8IKQ0BAS	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Fleeing the thriller genre,McEwan  creates a literary marvel	A PIVOTAL MOMENT OCCURS IN ATONEMENT WHEN  Robbie, a family friend of the Tallises, decides to search for their young missing cousins.  He does not want the Tallis family to know yet of his love for their daughter, so he separates from her and sets out through the extensive family grounds on his own.  <br />It is a choice that alters the rest of his life. Part one of the book, that the author builds slowly and carefully, ends with Cecelia Tallis's teenage sister, Briony, testifying that during the search, she witnessed cousin Lola's rape. Robbie is suspect number one. <br />Atonement finds author Ian McEwan turning from the restrictions of the thriller genre to create a literary marvel. He chooses an initial setting in and around an English Country Home occupied by the Tallis family. It is Pre-WWII.<br />McEwan ferrets out the anima of his main characters, most of whom undergo radical change by book's end, and not because of the World War. Emily is head of the household, mother to 13-year-old Briony (who is an emerging writer,) Cecelia, and older brother, Leon. Significant guests that fatal weekend include Paul Marshall, who is Leon's wealthy friend, a beautiful cousin named Lola, and the  bratty mischievous young cousins. Also present: Robbie, a friend to the family since childhood. <br />In a romantic episode, McEwan writes an unhackneyed, and appealingly-fresh scene of Robbie and Cecelia making love for the first, awkward, but passionate time. Elegantly done.  <br />Part Two narrates the characters' war service. Part Three concerns Briony's adult life. <br />In course of the book, McEwan subtly reveals a sibling rivalry theme, and shows the dangers that can spring from snobbery and racism. He also deals with how a writer can attempt atonement for their own misdeeds through writing fiction: surely an unusual theme.  <br />A rich and profound work.	2002-03-14
US	51837691	R22T1HJ4MTHO7L	0609610252	558871711	Adam and Eve and Pinch Me	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Suspenseful psychological thriller	I have always known the expression as Adam and Eve and Punch me, this is apparently the British equivalent. It is s a thrilling read.<br />We feel special to  our mates, so it is a shock to discover an affair going on, the plot  many writers use as a resort.<br />However, Ruth Rendell uses it as a recourse of a different colour. When Araminta Knox learns of the death of her ex, (is he really dead?) other women learn too that this dark-haired man, Jock Lewis, fits the description of a man they knew who fleeced them,  a con, a thief, and about as suitable a partner as Bin Laden  to your daughter.<br />Enter a ghost or two, one so scary Minty starts to carry a knife. She is obsessive, and hears voices. Rendell explores the psyche of her characters who reside in and around London, where a serial killer appears to be at gruesome work.<br />Throughout, this is a strong, suspenseful, psychological thriller.	2002-03-14
US	51837691	RLUYFYCHGKVA5	038533611X	738011644	Crow Lake (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	9	12	N	N	NEW AUTHOR MARY LAWSON A NAME TO REMEMBER	A Literary novel emerging from a first-time writer is an event to cherish. Mary Lawson is destined to make a splash with her excellent grasp of novel craftsmanship in this, her first attempt at casting her line over the water. <br />There is fine characterization:<br />'Mrs. Stanovitch arrived at least twice a week, heaving her bulk out from behind the steering wheel of her husband?s battered truck and puffing up the steps to the front door with two loaves of bread balancing on the top of a bushel basket of corn, or a leg of pork tucked under one arm, and a sack of potatoes under the other.'<br />Drama too: <br />'They were outside still, and she was still sobbing with terror. He was holding her, helplessly, helplessness in every line of her body.'<br />Twenty-six year-old Kate Morrison narrates the story of a rural Ontario, Canada  family whose past saturates their present. It would seem that old family sins rise again in the following generation. Even older brainy  brother Matt, whom Kate adores, hides secrets. When she finds them out, she meets them with resentment, and her hero worshipping of Matt evaporates. Life will never be the same.<br />Other characters stand out: Aunt Annie with her wobbling chin, the handsome Pye brothers: This is a novel of depth, it is intoxicating and altogether overwhelming.	2002-03-14
US	51837691	RQPHEODEOH9ZL	0375413006	898368219	Hateship, Friendship, Courtship, Loveship, Marriage: Stories	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Nine stories, most displaying  the depth of  a novel	Alice Munro is the eminent Canadian award winning author of international fame. It is remarkable to find that Alice Munro is the only living author with a full-time professional career spent in writing short fiction. Her standards and her talent are quite breathtaking. <br />She pours into each of her short stories the feeling of various Canadian regions and their characters, while offering appurtenance to the lives of her readers around the world. This is definitely not provincial writing, but worldly. <br />In addition, she delivers the depth of a novel into many of her short works. Her new collection contains seven stories of roughly the same length,each around thirty pages,with two novellas of around 50 pages each serving as bookends.  They are a treat.  <br />First off, Marriage, takes place in a small town when trains still joined communities and people wrote letters. It starts with a woman, Johanna, who wants to ship furniture to Saskatchewan. For why? Everyone is curious. Half the town knows the stationmaster personally, and guesswork pours over coffee cups. By end of the story we learn Johanna could have benefited from the advice a Toronto judge recently gave a neophyte lawyer, Don't ever assume anything.<br />Floating Bridge is next. An Ontario woman named Jinny examines the reasons for her petty anger, out of which she comes to terms with her cancer. In a story called Comfort, religious-right creationists edge their way into a school, and begin to make life uncomfortable for a science instructor teaching evolution. <br />What is Remembered, set in Vancouver and Victoria concerns the chance meeting between a bush pilot-doctor and a woman who has just attended the funeral of her husband's friend who may have committed suicide. Here, while telling a slight story, Munro's writing brilliantly captures the unease between the two. <br />Most of the stories appear to occur in the immediate past, when rental cars had no radios, and many people smoked and spoke ofciggie-boos. Yet, they deal with current high-profile issues such as euthanasia, and coping with old age deterioration. <br />Five of these first appeared in the New Yorker. All are of  <BR>consistent high quality.	2002-03-14
US	51837691	R3CBIJSXZLCF60	0684868733	801984050	Stories and Poems for Extremely Intelligent Children of All Ages	Books	5	108	115	N	N	No Dumbing Down to Children	CHILDREN'S LITERATURE  SHOULD NOT BE THE dumbed-down fare often offered, but splendid writing that appeals to intelligence - and lasts through adulthood. So says Harold Bloom, distinguished author of How to Read and Why. To which, aye aye says I. <br />It is why I have an aversion to the Beatrix Potter stories.  I dislike Potter's crude writing (Graham Greene, no less, pointed out that she can barely write a proper sentence, and as for paragraphing, pphew!) How much better to put the well-written poem, fable or story in front of your child - no matter its or the child's age.<br />Now Bloom puts forth a treasure trove that would  make even a pirate sit up and take notice. Culled from several centuries of writers, not all of whom had children in mind when they took quill to parchment, but rather, -and here is Bloom's point - an intelligent audience. <br />Many of the short entries here come from the nineteenth century. For good reason. It is easy to spot where there is much to be learned by the modern reader from these older tales and poems. For instance, how about the following (from Alice in Wonderland, or is it Alice Through The Looking Glass?) for  instilling a good feeling of self-worth in a young girl?<br /> &quot;Hold your tongue,&quot; said the Queen turning purple.<BR>&quot;I won't!&quot; said Alice<BR>&quot;Off with her head!&quot; the Queen shouted at the top of her voice. <BR>Nobody moved.<BR>&quot;Who cares for you?&quot; said Alice. She had grown to her full size by this time.)<BR>&quot;You're nothing but a pack of cards!&quot;<br />More than once in a lifetime, Bloom points out, every reader will grow to full size by crying out, to the right audience &quot;Who cares for you? You're nothing but a pack of cards!&quot;<br />Even the youngest child responds to this;<br />'The Owl and the Pussy- cat went to sea<BR>In a beautiful pea-green boat. . . .&quot;<br />Bloom omits the obscure, and the backbreaker, but includes what is illuminating, entertaining, andoften humorous. There are thrills too. Sherlock Holmes makes a memorable appearance, and Guy de Maupassant's astonishing - and rarely published - story The Horla jumps off the page like a rediscovered Grimm's Faery Tale. <br />This is a book for your favourite child - and that could be you.	2001-10-28
US	51837691	R3HZ42Q325CQEK	0151005346	180344806	The Nautical Chart	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Sail and Sail with Unshut Eye	PLUMBING BOTH THE   DEPTH OF THE SEAS AND of his characters, Arturo Pérez-Reverte brings us this lustrous adventure tale. In doing so, he reaches beyond his own classic works that include The Fencing Master and The Club Dumas.   <br />Senorita Tánger Soto is a dangerous, beautiful woman. Coy is a sailor and amateur diver. <br />He encounters her at an auction, where in an outlandish manner she outbids all others to obtain a rare, ancient book of maps. Coy is able to point out a serious error in one map in particular. She attracts him, but he correctly senses both the pleasures and the perils that lie in her wake. <br />With the quiet Senor El Piloto making up an unlikely intrepid trio, they agree upon setting out to search for the Dei Gloria - sunk off Spanish waters in 1767 - at a place identified on an old chart, but will it still be there?<br />This starts out not as a treasure hunt per se - although some gold and coins would be welcome to them all - but because Tánger has reason to believe the boat contains secret documents, or valuable information of some kind. Tánger's research covered many angles. <br />Coy must place all his trust in the two others. Are they trustworthy? <br />Then, out on the blue, the fresh, the ever free sea, Coy falls in love. He and Tánger go together like lobster and lobster-trapper. Although Tánger responds to his lovemaking, it is physical, not emotional. A threat looms when other adventurers become curious as to what Coy and company are up to.   <br />Pérez-Reverte references Joseph Conrad, Herman Melville and others in this <BR>tensive adventure.	2001-10-28
US	51837691	R1LV5BD7NLJV3X	0060187271	239322111	The Last Report on the Miracles at Little No Horse: A Novel	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Sizzling Plots	N A ONCE INNOCUOUS river, during the 1997 North Dakota flood, helpers rescued a woman in a billowing white nightgown floating by on the lid of a piano. Fascinated by this aquarelle image, author Goldberry M. Long wrote of a distressed heroine, Agnes, climbing on top of her piano and floating away to a new life.  <br />Further inspired by the image, the author, Louise Erdrich, started work on this intriguing and beguiling new novel, written during the flood.  Louise Erdrich is of both Ojibwe and German-American heritage. This unusual duality surfaces frequently in her creative writings, as with Father Damion Modeste (a modest devil?) a near 100 year-old character in her story. Writer Erdrich states in an interview, Modestes character begs the question, Are the personae we deliver to the world intrinsic to us or assumed by us?  <br />Father Modestes faces a dilemma; the Vatican wants to enquire into the background of Sister Leopolda, a candidate for sainthood. Only Damion knows of her ability to perform miracles, yet remaining capable of evil. For years he wrote directly to the Pope concerning his parish and included details of the miracles occurring at Little No Horse. <br />However, he withheld essential facts until his last report. It reveals the unusual situation concerning Sister Leopolda and thundering facts concerning  himself. <br />Characters from Erdrichs previous works feature in the book. Gerry Nanapush appears in an uproarious sequence involving a mousy moose. <br />In addition to its sizzling plots and powerful set pieces, we learn much from this book about Turtle Mountain Ojibwe culture. Its roots appear in ancient Manichaeism, a religious dissension that built on Christianity and tried to make its practice universal. It died out around the 5th century but revived in the 20th when its ancient scriptures resurfaced in Turkestan and Egypt.<br />Erdrichs style makes for great extracts, several from this book appeared in The New Yorker	2001-07-28
US	51837691	R2E6DTDS91RHPA	0684859726	840593809	Fatal Voyage : A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Footloose and Free of Delicacy	A DISEMBODIED FOOT NOT  belonging to any of the passengers or crew of a crashed plane is one of the puzzles in Kathy Reichs's new forensic anthropologist novel. Again, Temperance Brennan is on the job. <br />She hears about the crash over her car radio while driving in the Great Smoky Mountains of North Carolina,and speeds to the scene. 'Wreckage  and body parts covered the landscape like refuse discarded at a dump.'<br />All passengers lie dead in bits and pieces, excepting two unaccounted-for people. Where are the bodies of the criminal under police escort, and the accompanying officer? <br />Arriving later on the scene is Montreal detective Andrew Ryan. He is Temperance's on-again-off-again boyfriend, who, readers will be happy to note, is more on than off this time around. <br />During investigations, Temperance takes a stubborn stand. She wants to thoroughly investigate the singular incidence of the extra foot. This leads her to a sinister-looking hunting lodge, not far from the plane's wreckage. <br />North Carolina's Disaster Mortuary Operational Response Team (DMORT,) mobilized to investigate the tragic accident - or is it an accident? dumps Temperance from the investigation. The State's influential Lieutenant-Governor Parker Davenport runs interference against Temperance, and pays unhealthy attention to her activities. <br />There are many exciting episodes.  I won't reveal why everyone's hand shakes with fear as they enter the basement of the Arthur house. <br />Fatal Voyage is Kathy Reichs's fourth book. Its continuing adventures are believable because the author's occupation in Quebec and North Carolina is the same as that of her protagonist. It is a gruesome job, that without delicacy she describes in gory detail.<br />This is the best entry in the series.	2001-07-28
US	51837691	R12MEY3CNP71X8	0375506276	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Was the fourth hand really necessary?	A FARCICAL ACCOUNT OF A good looking, womanizing journalist. John Irving's tenth novel tells of Patrick Wallingford, a newscaster for an all-news TV network. This affords the author opportunities to take satirical swipes at the woozy world of world watchers. In all though, it is a silly book.  It is hardly as funny as the author seems to think.  I hope his next book is more meaningful. <br />This novel is also about how some men who have yet to experience real love incline toward misogyny. Patrick describes an Englishwoman in Japan as screeching like an unattended teakettle. His attitude to the female population will improve in the course of the book.<br />On assignment in India, he carelessly exposes his left hand too close to a cage of gourmet lions, and one of them lops it off, chews it and swallows without as much as a thank you. Adding insult, television audiences around the world see the accident broadcast live, and then again on every newscast everywhere in glorious bloody replays. <br />A handsome offer comes from Green Bay, Wisconsin, home of the Green Bay Packers. There, a woman named Doris offers her truck-driver husband's left hand for a surgeon to graft onto Patrick's arm. However, her spouse, Otto, has his hands-full and is not yet dead. Otto moves the plot along by shortly committing suicide. Doris now has a spare hand, on hand. Life though, is surely complicated, and Doris demands a baby by handsome Patrick in return for the deceased's hand. <br />Patrick is (always) in trouble with his women friends, and following the grafting of the hand by a strange Boston surgeon, Doris adds to his grief. She demands visiting rights with her husband's (and now Patrick's) left hand. <br />John Irving ends this weird handiwork on a happy note. Patrick overcomes his misogynist attitudes handily and finds happiness. Put away your hand-kerchief. With entwining fingers, true love saves the day.	2001-07-28
US	51837691	R3VOHSK2LXWSWG	074320395X	785819131	The Body Artist: A Novel	Books	1	12	22	N	N	DeLillo, the Shoddy Economist	What are DeLillo, his agent, editor, and publisher thinking?  DeLillo's Underworld, was a magnificent effort that ran some 800 to 900 pages, its plots engrossed us, and its many characters seared themselves onto our memories.  Fans who waited for his next novel spent three years wondering what it would be like.  Here is the answer.  <br />Don DeLillo's newest The Body Artist is a short story occupying 124 ittsy-bittsy pages slapped between hard covers, with a mediocre dust jacket, no plot, and a cast of characters that could fit onto a postage stamp.     <br />A review in Sunday's The New York Times praises the book's careful choice of words, and recommends savoring them slowly.  Let us examine that.  Looking at a random page in the book, we find a paragraph consisting of four consecutive sentences, three of which start with She.  That is a no-no in writing school - I.  Throughout, the wording is slipshod, unable to stand up to a detailed examination.  Construction is such that if this was a manuscript submitted by a new writer, it would not make it past the mail carrier!  This publication looks like a first draft for a scrapped novel.  It is in no condition to leave anyone's word processor.  If anyone actually edited The Body Artist, they should return to their previous occupation writing advertisements selling used coffins.  <br />It draws attention to itself through contorted construction that, as this book is by DeLillo, may provoke long discussions.  Reading it is akin to experiencing real life, as against undergoing the vicarious situations within a conventional novel.  For example, it opens with a mundane scene in Lauren Hawke's kitchen, describing an everyday boring morning.  Offering details of such a scene is not fiction writing.  It is documentary writing.  True, we learn some more about her at the end of the book, but writing the book backward does not advance the art of the novel. <br />Lauren lives alone in a rented house on a barren seacoast, where amiasmatic atmosphere --it engulfs the surroundings -- surfaces early in the story.  This house is quietly sinister - like the one in Joseph L. Mankiewicz's film The Ghost and Mrs. Muir.  Lauren hears a noise and discovers a spectre living upstairs.  It is male, and talks like her own sub-conscious might.  It can regurgitate convoluted words that are echoes of conversations she held with her film-director husband Rey Robles; he died a suicide.  That is all there is to the book.  Readers must themselves concoct the remaining 226 pages that would make for a reasonable-length novel.  <br />If you must read it, slip into a bookstore, pick it up, read it during one or two lunch breaks.  Doing so exhibits a less Cavalier attitude than do DeLillo and his publisher.	2001-02-11
US	51837691	R3S8GJMT1B9F1F	0060199652	822422067	Prodigal Summer	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Ah! Biology	Ah Biology!  Experimental millipedes in the reeds do it, sentimental centipedes in the weeds do it.  Soon Deanna Wolfe and Eddie Bondo are doing it.  Novelist Barbara Kingsolver (The Poisonwood Bible) does it again, this time in an Appalachian exploration.  <br />Deanna, a forty-year old scientist, returns home to study the biology of the forests.  She finds coyotes, who are strangers to the area, and takes them in charge.  She also meets a human predator, out to do them harm.  Despite his being a bounty hunter, an occupation at odds to Deanna's strong preservation instincts, she starts a relationship with this man, Eddie.  Can it work?  <br />Not far away from them, there are two other stories taking shape.  Lusa Landowski, a widow who is lonely and broke, desperately needs a solution.  Garnett Walker and Nannie Rawley are farmers who feud over pesticides and other complications.  <br />Within these stories, Kingsolver delivers some messages, the most important being that we must nourish our own lives as well as all other forms of life on earth.  Kingsolver brings this off with great aplomb.  <br />Her book differs in many ways from her best-selling The Poisonwood Bible.  Here, her writing is so good she can make peeling tree bark sound appealing.  <br />She brings a sensual touch. Here are her descriptions of the Zebulon Mountains: ...the mountain's breath began to bear gently on the back of her neck.  By early evening it was insistent as a lover's sigh, sweetened by the damp woods, cooling her nape ... In addition, her dialogue rings as true as a triangle in a symphony orchestra.  Her  stories always maintain interest, and her research is formidable.	2001-01-18
US	51837691	RMJ355OOF5634	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Overflowing Novel	Like a great chef who wants to impress, but who adds too many ingredients  and spices to the p(l)ot, Atwood's new book has too many contents, and too  many voices at work. <br />For example, there is a narrative interrupted by  supposed newspaper extracts, and then by two people talking, that itself  turns into a plot, that contains a novel, also called The Blind Assassin.  Why? Were writer and publisher uncertain as to the material?  Why so many  gimmicks?<br />Still, this book keeps a reader turning pages, and some of its  many devices are fun. My test for a book that is gimmicky is to ask if the  story was in straightforward a-z manner, how would I rate it?  My reaction  might have been to rate highly the wonderful writing -- despite what the  New York Times says, her similes are fun -- but as to the plot, when all is  over --so what?	2000-09-08
US	51837691	R2QHJI17J3M0C6	0375502548	684734174	Omerta (Godfather, Book 3)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	In Many Ways, Best of  Puzo's Mafia Series	In many ways Omerta is best of Puzo's Mafia series. There is less bloodshed and more intricate plotting.  That is the way gangsterism has changed.  As last of the old time Dons, Raymonde Aprile says, when he can  legitimately fleece businesses through owning dozens of banks, why take  risks?  (It is a thought that will resonate with many readers who have  dealt with banks.)<br />Using factual accounts, Puzo's Godfather Books and  Screenplays exposed the wide, sinister operations of a criminal  organization with ancient roots -- as did no other more scholarly  work.<br />Omerta is the code of silence enforced as a defense against  Government power.  However preventing betrayal proves about as difficult  for the Dons as squeezing Al Capone into a tu tu.<br />Twin assassins murder  the almost-retired Don Aprile.  Kurt Cilke of the FBI, himself under  suspicions finds himself up against a quiet adversary, Astorre. However,  whoever ordered the Don's death, now threatens Astorre.<br />Other characters  include the unforgettable fresh-faced, fun-loving, tennis-champion Rosie --  as well as the Sturzo twins, intriguingly well drawn.<br />Omerta is a  rewarding finish to Puzo's Mafia works.	2000-07-08
US	51837691	R5PKT1TMA8ZEW	0684859068	302392775	How To Read and Why	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A Profound Engagement	Professor Harold Bloom say that we can never know enough people intimately  to experience an adequate knowledge of what is humanity.  Friendships are  vulnerable, they diminish and disappear.  <br />Reading is the answer, and is  the most healing of pleasures.  Here Bloom teaches how to attain a profound  engagement in reading great plays such as Hamlet, and short stories such as  those by Chekhov and de Maupassant, Robert Browning's poetry, Dickens'Great  Expectations, and novels by Melville, Faulkner and Toni Morrison.<br />His  insights into about sixty books, add to our joy in visiting these classics,  or in re-visiting them, a practice he finds invigorating.  We listen, he  observes, more intently to a book than a person.<br />After reading his  analysis on a familiar work, it becomes difficult not to return to the  original for another journey through it.	2000-07-08
US	51837691	R1F6L9IGKOVCRV	0375504036	46292343	Big Stone Gap	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Back to the Old Home Town for a good laugh	Business is slack in Big Stone Gap, a tiny mining town in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia, near the foothills of Tennessee. So, Fleeta in the local greasy spoon rewrites her recipe-card box of five years standing.   Here is one entry.  With it, Trigiani sets the scene for her delightful  visit and memories of her own home town.<br />'Skin your possum.  Place in a  large pot and boil 'til tender.  Add salt and pepper to taste.  Make gravy  with broth and add 4 tablespoons flour and a cup of milk.  Cook until  thick.  Save a foot to sop gravy. <br />Reading this, Trigiani's protagonist  Ave Maris Mulligan ponders what to do with the other three feet.  She is a  witty thirty-five year-old, not yet 'murried'.  She owns the local drug  store taht apparently has a net value of one dollar.  Being pharmacist  creates access to the town's secrets.  Not that anyone gossips in Big  Stone.<br />We first meet her taking advantage of the Wise County Bookmobile's  weekly visit, as it lumbers down the mountain road.  She learns from a book   how to read faces and starts observing and analyzing the populace.<br />Then  Elizabeth Tayor and her politician husband decend on Big Stone Gap.   Elizabeth books the deluxe suite at the Trail Motel.  'Boy is she in for a  surprise,' says Ave Maria.  Based on an actual happening in 1978, the visit  is hilarious.  A bizarre football game precedes a dinner that boasts a  program printed on lavender paper 'compliments of the Dollar General  Store.'  Liz ends up in Hospital, the culprit: Fried Chicken.<br />Although  author Adriana Trigiani grew up in this drab location, she now lives in New  York, a successful producer and playeright.  This novel revisits choice  hometown characters,  and her experiences there directing local plays that  led her to a wider horizon of opportunity.	2000-05-22
US	51837691	R2OC66IEIDCEX5	0517708604	453014431	Family Houses in the Country	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Extraordinary Genteel Living	Forty-three beautiful summer-type homes appear in large glossy colored format covering more than 250 large size pages that make the book weigh as much as a heavy fire-log ready to sink a coffee table. <br />Author Alexandra  D'Arnoux and award winning photographer Gilles De Chabaneix visit several  continents to pick out outstanding dream homes, that although luxurious,  with stables, gardens and formal dining rooms, nevertheless look lived- in;  loads of lucky children treck through casual libraries, relax, take walks,  celebrate birthdays, and play chopsticks on an old piano.<br />Emphasis here  is on family values and most of the places are furnished to create a  nostalgic atmosphere. It is like 'Conrad in Search of His Youth.' <br />This  is a wonderful book to have and hug.  Whenever a guest opens it up and  peers at a picture, there follows a deep longing sigh.	2000-05-17
US	51837691	RNAOFLANLS3EQ	0375410538	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	5	46	60	N	N	Ondaatje trumps The English Patient	Crafted with complex characterizations, this is Michael Ondaatje's first novel since The English Patient fetched fame and Hollywood acclaim.  Now living in Toronto, he again builds a labyrinthine plot around memorable  characters that this time bestir our cranial amygdalas. <br />Anil Tissera, a  forensic anthropologist from USA alights in Sri Lanka, formerly called  Ceylon.  Her mission from the States is to investigate alleged human rights  violations. <br />Originally raised in Ceylon's culture, she procures her  first name from her brother in return for favors that included a sexual  one. She refuses to feminize her name to its female version Anile.  <br />People killed in Sri Lanka's wars are not her concern.  Tortures and  murders are.  Her reluctant Sri Lankan accomplice  Sarath Diyasena cautions  it is dangerous to spell out the truth concerning corpses in written  reports to authorities.  A dubious assistant, he will enact an off-center  role in Anil's quest for justice. <br />So will two special skeletons.   Through unique circumstances these can help Anil prove widespread cases of  ethnic torture.<br />In 1993 forces assassinated Sri Lanka's President  Premadasa who is thinly disguised in the novel.  This book is less about  politics than gross humanity. <br />To identify one skeleton they name Sailor,  Anil and Sarath hire the somewhat unsavoury Ananda.  His name is that of a  disciple of Buddha's.  Ananda's skill stems from ancient arts.  He is to  construct an image of Sailor's face -- but he has his own therapeutic  agenda.<br />Ondaatje unfolds Anil's past life and romances in the States,  while unveiling Sri Lanka's people, terrain and culture.  It leads to a  compelling climax as Anil prepares to convince her Sri Lanka peers of  shocking truths.	2000-05-15
US	51837691	R1EZOC5ER6BJE	0670891568	739787521	Fiona Range	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Full Range Fiona	Mary McGarry Morris evinces striking skill at creating the vivid character of Fiona Range.  Fiona is hard to admire, but engages interest by her rebel attitude and behavior. She is someone the apparently respectable people of  small town Dearborn near Boston, shun and label as trouble.<br />Some of her  bad behavior is not exactly of her making.  By book's end, readers gain  some sympathy for her.<br />She steps into the book in the worst light.  From  a drunken state where she is beyond knowing what she is doing, she wakens   hungover in her own bed -- but with a hairy arm wrapped around her that  could belong to any male from this small depressing town.  Although she  never misses a day, she is late for work, as a waitress in Chester and  Maxine's coffee shop.  Thirty-year-old Fiona arrives with a throbbing  temple, her hair looking possibly as though cut, dried and fried, her good  looks on vacation.<br />Maxine is Chester's wife, her attempts at waitressing  are hilarious.  She would make Guinness Book of Records for average number  of plates dropped per shift. <br />Life for Fiona sinks further until she  determines to restore it.  It would help if she could identify her  father.<br />Many point to Patrick Grady, a local dysfunctional war veteran.   She harasses him but he refuses to talk to her. Her mother disappeared  years ago.  Brought up by a family presided over by Judge Hollis, Fiona  became persona non grata because of bad behavior, and they evicted her.  <br />Fiona likes to speak truth.  It is not always what people want to hear,  gossip is more their style.  Small communities have a reputation of  everyone knowing everyone else's business.  Like Peyton Place, Dearborn  also houses dangerous secrets.<br />These explode in final chapters that solve  a long standing mysterious disappearance and create an exciting and  surprising  denouement for all that has occurred.	2000-05-11
US	51837691	RXCOWDRPI0YOI	1894012038	274738949	The Big Bamboozle: A Burlesque Novel	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A hundred bawdy laughs and a serious environmental message	The Big Bamboozle is a fresh menagerie of a book that serves up a serious environmental message with a hundred bawdy laughs and a close look at one of the earth's most fascinating creatures.<br />It mixes a moth-eaten,  audience-worn, baggy-pants comic together with an intellectual Great Ape  and throws in a Night Club Stripper -- officially known as an  ecclysiast.<br />What stands out in this new work by Hal Sisson is the way  this writer crawls inside the heads of his disparate cast of characters.   Dwart is a waning stand-up comic running out of steam and self-esteem.   Affronting problems he talks his way out of trouble by using old jokes the  way a lawyer accesses old court rulings. <br />Sisson tackles the thoughts and  feelings of the Great Apes themselves.  He maintains pace, readability and  tension throughout the book, while steadily satisfying our voyeuristic  desire to learn more about the Great Creature.   <br />Its plot plunges ahead,  when Bamboozle's life is in danger from a hot-headed human.  This low-life   has a hilarious hair-brained reason to want to kill the beast.<br />All told,  a refreshing, original work.	2000-02-24
US	51837691	R3IO9UOIEY126G	0375503269	187360775	Anonymous Rex: A Detective Story	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Instant Jurassic Classic	Eric Gracia's hero Vincent Rubio displays many attributes of the noir Private Eye.  He wears a trench coat, and creeps around buildings with a cheap camera performing tawdry divorce work.  He is behind in his rent, his  car repossessed and American Express would rather he please left  home  without it. His partner is dead, under suspicious circumstances.  Still,  there is a difference between Vincent Rubio and Mike Hammer: Vincent is a  dinosaur. <br />This hugely creative book is the work of a twenty-six year old  Miami (now L.A.) writer.  This is one of the funniest books since funny  books. <br />Seems the dinosaur specie disguised themselves as humans -- with  the aid of plastic, and steel belts to hide their tails.  Dinosaur Councils  forbid revealing themselves to humans, sex is a sin with humans  -- and all  this makes for a  roaring plot of rejection, deception, and conception.    <br />Dinosaurs are 5% of the total population of our planet.  They have been  for some time.  Eric Garcias reveals for the first time that Al Capone and  Elliot Ness were only a couple of sly Diplodoci with a grudge to settle.   <br />Anonymous Rex becomes an Instant Jurassic Classic.  -David F. Eustace	1999-07-05
US	51837691	R25B14DTFEPOG5	038533401X	186149727	City of Light	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An unusual, first-class novel by an outstanding new writer	In this accomplished novel, Lauren Belfer's characters are vivid, its story engrossing, its research awesome. Her setting is an electrifying era.<br />In Buffalo, N.Y. 1901, electricity is in the air.  AS the novel  opens, the city prepares to host a World fair where LIGHT will be the main  attraction, perhaps upstaged by an official visit by the President of the  U.S.A.  Both events will prove disastrous. <br />Miss Louise Barrett is a most  progressive school principal, urging her female pupils into worthy  occupations, who spins her appointment into a concurrent influential role  amongst the city's powerful elite.  She harbors secrets from her past, but  discovers that the city Establishment who have supported her school for  girls generously, may have worse secret than hers.  Strange events occur  that could sabotage the Niagara Falls project to supply electricity, and  she suspects the man she loves of complicity. <br /> A long, (500 pages)worthy  and fulfilling read.	1999-04-05
US	51837691	R2EW644NRQSSOM	0805053085	934580598	The Ground Beneath Her Feet: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Visionary Novel of our Extraordinary cracked-up World	Rushdie often rushes in where others fear to.  This great new opus is like a Charles Ives Symphony in novel form.  It reveals a writer at peak of his powers.  He casually toys with facts turned into fiction, and fiction into  facts.  Like Ives adding a quotation from a well-known march, with  distorted notes and in a strange key, Rishdie titillates us with unreliable  quotes and substituted casts in films, and real life.<br />This book reminded  me of a lecturer so at home with her material that she can play with her  audience from her platform, teasing it, amusing it, enlightening, and  disturbing it. Soon into the book, Rushie jerks it out of our hands killing  off his heroine Vina. It is left to her friend, and onetime lover Rai  Merchant to narrate this iliad.  <br />He tells her story and the story of  those around her. Vina has her family wiped out, the consequence of a  violent act.  Ormus is part of a strange congener of relatives, a mad  brother, a twin ghost.  These two meet and mate.  Rushie hits on the Greek  myth of Orpheus and Eurydice. <br />This is a long engrossing read.   One of  the most worthy books I have read.	1999-04-02
US	51837691	R356WOY3EBPM7T	0060193093	931435117	Dreamland	Books	4	3	3	N	N	No Sweet Dreams	Dreamland is a quick-step Ragtime.  They are both novels that become chronicles of New York at the start of the twentieth century.<br />Dreamland displays an even wider focus than E.L. Doctorow's acclaimed work.  Kevin  Baker squeezes History and Fiction until it churns and seethes.  In the  excited, agitated, giant city of New York, colorful characters swirl within  a slew of immigrants, all of them coming to a furious boil.<br />One of them,  Trick the Dwarf, tells us at the start what ties the book together.  &quot;  . . .A young man, the young woman who loved him, and a terrible villain --  A story about a death, and destruction, and fire . . . thieves and  cutthroats . . . and a land of dreams.&quot;	1999-03-13
US	51837691	RU1UH2CSBT9FD	0385493800	934400771	The Testament	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A serious but nevertheless entertaining mixture	One of the world's richest men dies leaving an estate of a mind-boggling amount.  This is the start of the latest John Grisham, so I expected an assassination or two to occur before divvying up the money.  Not so.     It is a more serious but nevertheless entertaining mixture.  Its plot  encompasses the following themes.  Disgraceful behaviour of second  generations of wealthy entrepreneurs.  A look at the awful treatment by the  entire Americas of native people.  Harshness of missionary work.  Power of  prayer.  Crassness of large greedy law firms.  How money influences many  professionals giving testimony.  Shady legal practices when deposing  potential witnesses.   At its heart is Brazil's Indian Affair's Agency.   An investigation in 1967 revealed that it distributed smallpox and  tuberculosis germ-.infected clothing to the Indians.  Deadly bacteria fell  over their villages, dropped from planes and helicopters.  In 1990,  different but still deadly practices continue, and go unpunished.    Grisham drops on us a collection of unforgettable characters.  I found  myself casting the inevitable movie as I went through the book.  Tom Hanks  as the suicidal alcoholic lawyer, Nate O'Riley.  He may be the only one who  can get justice done in the estate case under challenge by dozens of  greedy, lazy, relatives, (and greedy, though hard working, lawyers.)  Jody  Foster as the altruistic missionary who has set aside worldly things to  play a useful role in the world, placing herself in danger.  Michael  Douglas as Josh Stafford, head lawyer and Jack Lemon as the Judge.   Troy Phelan who amassed power of almost fantasy proportions knows his end  is around the corner.  He seeks a way to die in a spectacular manner.  One  that in itself makes headlines, and one whose other ramifications through  his various wills causes an earthquake amongst his unattractive relatives.   Perhaps though, in the end he hopes it will result in doing good for the  world.  It has only a slim chance.  Still, when you are dead, can you be  accused of taking slim chances?   Grisham's new book has wide appeal.	1999-02-01
US	51837691	R2EC1A9R4VDHNN	0374216495	358028755	The Museum Guard	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A remarkable novel with unique features.	Howard Norman's characters have the vividness of a black and white Karsh  portrait. Even his minor personalities become etchings in our mind.  His  allegory of people offering simplistic solutions to DeFoe's girlfriend's  problems --to steal a painting-- are like those foolish solutions proposed  to meet Hitler's pre-war demands.  This is such a fine and well-written  book that it is a shame the author did not research when tape recorders  were in use.  There were absolutely no tape recorders in or out of radio  stations in 1939, yet they are described in detail in the novel. Tut tut!	1998-09-06
US	51837691	R2L63PZIKPPQ1V	0609602535	453276093	The Overseer	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent &quot;Hitchcockian&quot; spy yarn	Hitchcock comes to mind.  Many of his themes turn up in fresh clothing in Overseer.  The &quot;McGuffin,&quot; for example (Hitchcock's name for what everyone is after) is ingenious.  In Overseer, it is an ancient censored manuscript that reveals the secret of total control. All the alphabet soups must find it to prevent world chaos. In particular the COS and heroine Sarah, a James Bond Type female, who is  as cool as Alaska. <BR><br />Another Hitchcock theme; Innocent Hero caught up in events. Jasper is an intriguing, young professor.  He has no knowledge of spying, but is thrown into confusing events and must struggle through by logic and wits. Like many a Hitchcock hero, he finds help from total strangers. His big threat is a mysterious enemy group already in possesssion of part of the deadly manuscript, and prepared to bring about its initial localized holocaust. <BR><br />This novel juxtaposes between intellectual thought  and raw action.  It tweeks our brains and our brawn.  Exciting?  I'll say.  It's bound to be the best spy novel of the year.  E-mail:  bookmarkde@aol.com    Name David F.  Eustace	1998-04-30
