US	51842313	R1WR7DNL3Y1IHA	0465008003	3339591	The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	A New Brave Multi-Polar World	ZB brilliantly analyzes the choices in front of USA, in its dealings with the rest of the World and the kind of role and status it can achieve and risks and feasibility of various possible policies. He is characteristically far reaching, almost mathematically precise and complete.      Though he is objective and does not promote any particular ideology other than the balanced and realistic welfare of USA, he is after all a man of \\"Detante\\".  Those \\"entangling alliences\\" and the beloved NATO template keeps coming to the forefront.  He is no unilateralist.  He makes us aware that unless the current emerging powers such as China and India feel secure, and their vital interests secured, there can not be peace and stability for anyone.  I think he understands dynamics of \\"Great Powers\\" better than most, and that is the World we are moving back to after all.  The great polarization of East and West blocs, and to some degree North and South, have dissolved and a new multi-polar World has been emerging.  He seems to have dismissed altogether that infamous \\"clash of civilizations\\".    It is a good read.  There is a unique piece of insight and wisdom in almost every page.  Well delivered and smooth.  Stands out among many similar works.  Highly recommended.	2005-08-28
US	51842313	R3E9PM4KCV9AYY	0393325318	63882059	Militant Islam Reaches America	Books	2	11	37	N	N	Stoking The Fire	Daniel Pipes does not disappoint here at all.  He is a man on a mission making the most of recent events to make sure non-Muslim World turns and remains paranoid of all Muslim groups and nations.   What makes his kind of scholarship particularly devious is the fact that he is well armed with facts and figures that he uses very selectively and has carved himself a pseudo-academic position.  Though in this book even his usual rather thin veneer of fake objectivity has been thrown away.  His naked dislike of most things Muslim is scary.  Even scarier is how many consider him to be the voice of reason and truth.    The title suggests that USA is about to be overrun and destroyed by thousands of Muslim militants who have penetrated our society.  It is a call for \\"Jihad\\" in a way.  According to Pipes, only good Muslim is the one who has denied his religion and culture.  While any influence of Islam on politics of any kind is evil, the same criteria does not seem to apply to other religions.  While he urges all \\"good\\" Muslims to organize against the extremism, he also categorizes any Muslim organization as a likely front for extremist ideologies.  He seems to have a particular dislike of those groups who have been critical of US Middle East policies.    The fact is Islamic extremists in USA do not even register as a threat to this country.  The political influence of mainstream Muslims in USA, though numbered in millions, let alone extremists among them, is negligible.  There is no measurable internal threat from American Muslims as the author strongly suggests.    The irony and hypocracy of this deeply and militantly Zionist author extolling the virtues of disengaging religious zealotry from politics seems to have been lost on many readers.     Far beyond analysis, Pipes pretty much dictates what exactly everybody should be doing to counter this menace of Islam.  His audacity to lecture UN, US presidents, other World leaders and bodies in the pages of this book is just breath taking.    It is no wonder that Pipes almost completely focuses his wrath on Iran and Iraq (book written before the start of Iraq war), the two states in the region in a position to threaten ambitions of Israel.  One would think if Global \\"Islamic\\" terrorism were the main concern, Pipes would focus our attention more on Saudi Arabia which exports and finances some of the most extreme Islamic ideologies around the World.  None of the 9/11 terrorists were Shiites.    Pipes tries to make us believe that source of terrorism are theological, somewhere in the Islamic culture if not in Islamic teachings themselves.  He laments the attempts at politicization of Islam, while he is not disturbed at all by other ethnic or religious based regimes in the region.       This book is highly one-sided and represents a bigoted interpretation of not just the causes but also the scale of the dangers Islamic(?) terrorism presents to the rest of the World.  Pipes offers not a way out but a way to deepen the crisis in service of his ideology and causes.	2005-07-31
US	51842313	R36KAZHYMCX74D	1566562937	130048720	Samarkand (Interlink World Fiction)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Real Fables	This is my third book of Malouf and I have not been disappointed.   Any more such historical novels, and he is likely to be branded an Orientalist!   It is a wonderful story, where he brings to life some well known names but their not that well known characters.  It is hard to tell which parts he fills in and which parts are historically accurate.  Delivery is smooth and unpretentious, which helped me to finish it in a few days.   He does not really make a great effort at authenticity.  Conversations sound too modern and there is not a lot of scenery details.  Story itself works the magic.  Things do take unexpected turns, or sometimes come to anti-climactic ends, as in real life and as in real history.  Many pay lip service to the great traditions and stories of East, but Malouf gives us a full panoramic view.	2005-07-29
US	51842313	R12FD91LJ06389	1860642225	764851202	Turkey: A Modern History	Books	4	12	18	N	Y	Something Old, Something New	Erik Zurcher has done a service to all who may have an interest in recent history of Turkey, filling a much-needed gap.  This is the second revised edition of the original 93 publication.  It expands even more on the recent and more modern history in great detail. It is a nice compliment to Bernard Lewis' \\"Emergence of Modern Turkey\\".  Zurcher has done a lot more than just reposting known history from other traditional sources.  There is much new insight and analysis.  Most of it is balanced, but he still has failed to refrain from \\"recommending\\" a \\"multi-national\\" state \\"solution\\" to the Kurdish \\"problem\\".  As if there is any possibility of it, or as if, after all he has researched and explained about modern Turkey, he would not know, better than anyone else that the unitary nature of the state is what has enabled it to exist in the first place.  Given all their ethnic mixes, how often does one encounter a successful model of such a \\"state\\" in Europe or Eastern Europe or Middle East?  Why such an enlightened solution is rarely pushed ahead in other similar situations, is a mystery.  Germany still has to this day, purely ethnic based citizenship laws for example.  Besides, why is a democracy that guarantees all individual freedoms to all citizens and makes no distinction among them is still found lacking?      Though he occasionally acknowledges the long history of parliamentary and constitutional rule in Turkey, the judicious and brutally honest study of all the blemishes and imperfections of Turkish democracy throughout decades, creates or more like helps propagate the idea that Turks are in general still not comfortable with the concept of democracy, or that they still do not \\"get\\" it.  It would have put things in better perspective if Zurcher for example had briefly mentioned what was going on in Europe through 20s, 30s and 40s and even 50s while Turkish democracy one way or another managed to stay on track.    While history of various political parties and their roles has been very well covered, not all topics of importance have received the same attention.  Turkey's EU vocation is treated somewhat superficially for example.	2005-04-13
US	51842313	R2LL872NMZFFFP	0618509283	528177434	The Plot Against America: A Novel	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A Political Fiction With A Twist	Though the book starts as an excellent literary fiction, it loses its rudder and sail somewhere in the last third and the ingenious plot unravels.    This was no ordinary fiction, being highly political.  It contemplates what would have happened if USA stayed neutral during WWII.  Of course for that to happen, Roosevelt needs to lose the election to a Lindbergh.  America consequently slides towards the kind of anti-semitic hysteria that gripped Germany in the late 30s.  This is all told from the point of view of a young boy, a Jewish boy, from a working family from the working section of Newark.  Roth did this expertly.  Description of Newark, its blue collar and ethnic neighborhoods during the turn of the century is very authentic.  The whole era is brought to life in Roth's writing.  It was very much like watching an old and grainy, black and white movie.  He seems to have first hand knowledge of the place as a child.  Details of the story and plot need not be reviewed here as many have already done so. It was also revealing to look through a boy's eyes at an America where various ethnic groups are still very much in the process melting and various insecurities and animosities between groups are still at the surface.  A reverse anti-semitism in a sense, where the deep suspicion and distrust of Christians by ordinary Jews was hugely in the background.    The sole focus on the impact of such a political turn of events on Jews alone was rather strange though.  History shows that it would have been Communists and Unions and maybe blacks who would have been mostly at the receiving end of such mass hysteria first.  The story also stands in sharp contrast to today's hawkish neocon driven right wing US policies.  There is also something rather unrealistic about Americans wholesale turning into hate driven anti-semitic mobs.  This was a time of great social change, labor movements, early rights movements and end of the robber baron era in USA.  All this seems fail to get even a glimpse in the book.  As the plot moves on one gets even more curious how it will ever pull back to the real event time line and eventually inevitable happens.  Roth pushes us to a nice climax only to let us fall face first and rather crudely.  He completely fails to tie it up nicely at the end.    In any case, this book was rather thought provoking and there was occasionally some excellent prose.  Roth is a good writer and has an authentic style.	2005-03-28
US	51842313	R269V63393X0SV	0691058547	350618042	e: The Story of a Number	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Best Story of Classical Math	What a masterpiece!  Eli Maor has written a wonderful story of classical math, while mostly centered around logarithms and natural base e, he has also taken us through much of the other essential classical math developments that touched upon this topic such as calculus, limits and analytic geometry.  One can easily sense the author's enthusiasm for the subject and it is contagious.  He has squeezed an amazing number of facts, personalities, history into a modest number of pages and whatever was left over, and there was plenty, he has expanded on them in little abstracts and appendixes.  The path he takes us through is nothing less than a biography of our intellectual development.  It is so interesting to see that some of the very basic math concepts that takes no more than a page in a standard textbook today, had to come into being through such tortuous ways.  One also cant help but admire the pioneers such as Euler, Gauss and Descartes, their immense genius and their creativity and vision so many centuries ago.  Eli puts all these into perspective.  Writing and delivery are excellent.  While the whole book reads like an exciting novel, many chapters can be read by themselves and stand on their own too.  There is also plenty of math and derivations.  Highly recommended.	2004-07-28
US	51842313	R1LWKV70NZQWJR	0201328410	105342789	Six Not-So-Easy Pieces-Book/CD Package	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	From A Great Teacher	Though the title implies it, this book is not really a sequal to the Six Easy Pieces. They can be read seperately. It treats some of the concepts centered around Special and General Relativity that revolutionized physics near the turn of the century. It would be impossible to find another book that can dive so deeply into topics such as symmetry and space-time, while bypassing formalism and exposing the fundemental ideas and signficance in every-day terms. The delivery is in lecture form, and while that makes it more authentic and real, the fact that this is a book and the reader is not really in a lecture, makes it a little awkward. One often gets the feeling that one had to be there to get the full benefit. There is little attempt at explaining the historical context and other niceties and focus is solely on the concepts themselves. One needs to have at least college level math background to follow the derivations. Feynman has done a phenomenal job in reducing such complex concepts into digestable pieces of conversation. There is no abstraction, everything is quantified. I especially enjoyed the chapter Curved Space, as I had never seen it treated so intimately. The self consistency of all these topics and how they are interrelated is elegantly presented.	2004-07-28
US	51842313	R1T90YBLF0Q4PK	0201408252	165980351	Six Easy Pieces: Essentials Of Physics Explained By Its Most Brilliant Teacher (Helix Book)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Master Delivery	Feynman is one of my favorite American heros.  It is hard not to admire any one aspect of his life.  Above all, he was a great teacher obviously.  The book is a collection of his lectures for introductory physics, may be a little too elementary for some.  Note that, nowadays such topics are delivered to students at earlier ages since Feynman first started these lectures. Still, how he uses daily language and examples to explain and highlight the basic principles of physics is impressive.  More importantly, he is very open and clear about exactly what is known and explainable and what we really do not know yet.  This comes in very handy in the last chapter on quantum physics, which I enjoyed the most.	2004-07-13
US	51842313	R1TF5BSIYU4KC8	0375706852	127846038	My Name Is Red	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Closet Orientalist and Palace Mysteries	Pamuk has created an elaborate masterpiece.  The book is a murder mystery on the surface.  Like some of his books though it has many layers interwoven expertly.  The setting, old Istanbul and Topkapi Palace grounds, among court artisans, allow him to dissect seemingly one of his favorite topics, philosophy and essence of East.  What makes East, Orient?  He constantly falls back to the rich history of Ottomans to explore and contrast East vs. West.  What separates the two cultures way beyond religion?  Art, especially visual art, maybe the best and most direct expression of a world view and indicator of where people place themselves with respect to God and all other creations and the story revolves around this theme.  <br />There are no introductions, no prologues, epilogues, first page takes you right in, and you are being murdered.  His use of first person narrative is very effective and very unnerving.  This book took Pamuk many years to finish apparently, three of which was spent on translation alone, and it shows.  The effort he has put in making his work available to World readers has been well worth it, something that other contemporary Turkish writers should emulate I believe.  Though some have complained about the flat prose, this cannot be all attributed to the translation.  He uses a non-elaborate style to simulate realism, which I believe, works well.  Some of the scenes are quite violent and sexual references are sometimes shockingly raw, but this is 16th century and anyone who has read Rumi should not be too surprised.  He paints very rich scenes, and as in a Vermeer painting, one is inevitably looking for that hidden clue, a faint reflection on the mirror for the identity of the villain in the story.<br />Some years ago I had a chance to see the very manuscripts that inspired the artisans in this book and occupy such a prominent place, on display in NY Metropolitan Museum.  Given the time period, these were very bold and very impressive expressions pointing to an era in Islamic culture when the dark curtain of conservatism had not yet descended.  If Sunni Arabs represent the warriors of Islam, surely Shiite Persians represent the artists.  Their wonderful paintings, poetry and miniatures have dominated the Islamic art and literature scene and have set the standard for much more to come.<br />Pamuk has done extensive research and period accuracy is impressive.  Though the writing is smooth and not convoluted, still it is not an easy read, but given the topic, which is a lot more than just a murder mystery, it is a small price to pay for a great book.	2004-06-06
US	51842313	R2CKFZ5YAU2AXB	0743203399	269804839	The Wild Blue: The Men and Boys Who Flew the B-24s Over Germany 1944-45	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	Greatest Generation	The topic is rather narrow but still very interesting.  It was not the aviation aspects that I found most captivating, which is treated so much better in numerous other books and novels, but the make up of men (no women yet) who ended up prosecuting this massive air campaign, the mind-numbing size and scale of the effort, the logistics, the training and the youth of these aerial fighters.  This was highlighted to a higher degree in this book than many other similar works.  Most impressive was the extensive training programs that were implemented in short order that were able to transform so many ordinary citizens into experts at flying these complex machines and delivering their deadly cargoes into the heart of the Nazi empire.  This is in such keeping with the uniquely egalitarian American traditions.  Contrast this with our current reliance on a warrior class to take on these responsibilities.  The book follows the involvement in WWII of a very young McGovern and his crew, which makes it all the more interesting.  Jimmy Stewart and Clark Gable behind the yoke? That was the Greatest Generation!<BR>Though the risks they took were tremendous, it was not nearly as bad as it could have been.  Note that, through none of his required 35 missions, a single German or Italian fighter ever attacks McGovern's ship.   Which is most surprising.  By his entry into war in late 44, Luftwaffe was already cut down to size, and maybe that's why the 8th gets more of the glory, which was mauled heavily by the best of Germans fighters early on.  Unlike American pilots, Germans did not have the luxury of a decent training away from combat zone, and typically flew until shot down.  It was also noteworthy that the heavy bombing of German and Austrian targets continued unabated until two weeks before the surrender of the German Army!<BR>The writing is quite unattractive, as if in one afternoon he just copied all his notes and called it a book.  His sentences are short and stucco, as if using military efficiency himself.  He also paints the characters into larger than life heroes.  Though understandable, it is obviously unrealistic and takes away from the book.  Still, there is no evidence of any one of the men described ever doubting the mission, or why they are so far from home fighting an enemy that does not seem to be an immediate threat to USA.  This is most interesting and also impressive.<BR>It must be noted that the skills in organizing such massive undertakings in USA, from production ramps to training and logistics, and the sheer number of people who experienced such responsibilities at such early age who then joined the private and government sectors must be one of the reasons for rapid dominance of American industry following the war.  Whereas in Germany for example, factories running in underground complexes, with severe shortages of basics and manned mostly by slave labor, did not produce many transferable skills to peace time industrial activities.<BR>It is a good read, not the best of its kind for sure, but worthwhile.	2004-04-21
US	51842313	R20FOWHPJWQFCW	0553278398	525478656	Prelude to Foundation (Foundation, Book 1)	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Foundation of Foundation	Although I am an Asimov fan, this book was disappointing.  As he explained, the sole purpose for this volume was to connect the dots in his previous Foundation series, but I am not sure why that was necessary and why it had to be so dry.<br />Much of the dialogues are contrived and contain Asimov's musings about food, society and state of the Galaxy thousands of years from now.  It is interesting that he projects the kind of social injustices and class struggles that dominated our political discourse during the cold war decades that far into the future.  This theme of challenge of maintaining social order is common in most of his works.  It would be so depressing if that were really the case for future civilizations that have supposedly solved so many of the fundamental problems of humanity.<br />The plot does have a few pleasant surprises, especially at the end and one also detects the innocent romanticism of Asimov throughout.  I do not think it is a must to read this book to enjoy the other books in the series; they were all very well done and memorable on their own.	2004-04-05
US	51842313	R1F1JTSGZPLTP7	0312270828	270992916	The Satanic Verses: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	2	12	29	N	N	Overwhelming	This one goes into my library of shame, among the very few books that I ever failed to finish.  I tried hard but could not connect with the whole theme, topic and the message, whatever it was.  It is not that I expected it to be a breeze, but still, Satanic Verses overwhelmed me completely.  Too many allegories, symbols and chaotic scenes as his mind and writing jumps from past to fantasy to supernatural. It is a shame since the whole experience prevented me from picking up any other writing of his.	2004-04-03
US	51842313	R1TOVZ7BDOGG5T	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Thriller And A Little More	It is a page turner and very smartly written.  The research is excellent and opens a whole tract of thought about religion and women.  In fact, not being trained in Christian culture and history all that well, it was difficult for me to distinguish genuine historical facts from Dan Brown's fiction many times, which made it all the more interesting.  Of course, many of the ideas and research may have been taken from other body of work, but that does not take from the novel in any way.  My only gripe is that, from the very beginning, it became clear that the author had Hollywood in mind for this work.  The chapters are organized in scenes, and the pace is fast and furious, as in many of the current block busters.  In the second half of the book, the endless turn of events, and how the heros always managed to extract themselves from all kinds of impossible situations became a little too much. A highly entertaining and somewhat thought provoking book, well written and well worth it.	2004-01-31
US	51842313	R344IX3PW6VX0N	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Bodacious!	Sure it is over the top.  Sure he is an idealogue and he overstates it.  No matter what one may think of the interperetations and extrapolations though, the facts brought up here remain unscathed.  That is the sacry part.  This is in your face satire. I also think he had either too much help or too much time on his hands writing this book.  It is always good to have some brave soul shaking the establishment a little.  The popularity of the book has a message of its own.  Though it was written before the start of the Iraq war and the avalanche of corporate scandals, he was on target on these issues.  Ironic that the publication of this book was overshadowed by 9/11, and his excellent award-winning movie \\"Columbine Bowling\\" was overshadowed by the Iraq war.	2004-01-20
US	51842313	R39WK1S1BXZUQ5	0060516054	433958284	What Went Wrong?: The Clash Between Islam and Modernity in the Middle East	Books	4	12	16	N	Y	Why did it go wrong?	Prof. Lewis elegantly and with great insight, explains what went \\"wrong\\" with Islam, and how as a culture it failed to deliver many of its adherents to the 21st Century.  Though this is exactly what the title of this book promises, he has diligently avoided getting into why things went \\"wrong\\".  Like many other readers, I mistakenly expected to hear more about the answers to this all-important question, but alas, Lewis has stayed true to his historian form and avoided connecting the dots.  His feeble attempt at the very end falls really short and only highlights the gap.<br />The book is a collection of his various lectures and articles published on this topic in recent years, thus lacks the structure and depth of analysis one would have expected.  He displays a very intimate knowledge of the history and culture of Middle East, for which he is well known.  He was there long before it became a fashionable topic.<br />Lewis was able to unfold what went wrong and when, mostly in comparison to what went right in the West.  This is a very useful tool but also distracts from the main theme.  More objectionable is the fact that it does not quite represent an apples-to-apples comparison, as West is more than just Christianity.<br />Similarly, Islam means more than just the Muslim religion in this context I believe, it also represents East.  Maybe the title should have been \\"What Went Wrong in the East\\".  Is it possible that if it were not the Muslim Middle East but Hindu or Buddhist Near or Far East that bordered West, Lewis would still feel the need to explain what went wrong with Islam?  The way Lewis has framed the whole \\"problem\\" in the context of religion alone is quite disappointing and prevents many other, maybe more interesting, venues of discourse.  Would Islam have taken a wrong \\"turn\\" if there were no West?  How does one define \\"wrong\\"; a set of moral values or military and economic prowess?  If Islam had come before Christianity, would the roles be reversed too?It is for someone else to ponder these questions, which are ultimately more interesting and constructive than what went wrong.  <br />His main focus has been in his career as in this book, on the Ottomans.  They were one of the few Eastern cultures and societies that attempted to reconcile East and West, maybe unavoidably given their geography.  They offer a rich \\"lab\\" to study the interaction of East and West, and not just Islam and Christianity to which Lewis limits himself here<br />He paints Islam into a corner, a dead end, solely responsible for most of the ills of Middle East, which willingly or not, helps deepen the divide, far from explaining it.  Given his qualifications, one expected more from Prof. Lewis.<br />Still, the superb delivery, the way Lewis is able to connect seemingly unimportant details to a bigger picture, and the amusing and informative anecdotes he has generously provided makes this is a very good read.	2003-12-02
US	51842313	RI80COY2TJZTR	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	More Than Brush Strokes	Tracy Chevalier has come up with a very creative and ingenious plot and a very readable novel.  It is easy to understand how she may have been inspired by this particular Vermeer painting and its subject, to tell her story, promise of which was captured for eternity by the most famous of the Dutch Masters.<br />The delivery is less brilliant, and dialogues seem less than authentic at times.  Sure, there are glimpses of the 17th century Dutch daily life, business of art of painting, grind of keeping a medieval house functioning and the fragility of human life, but one does not exactly get transported to the time and place while reading this novel.  <br />Still, it was a pleasant book, worth the read	2003-10-23
US	51842313	R1H7585OJU7EY7	0465027261	922193941	The Grand Chessboard: American Primacy And Its Geostrategic Imperatives	Books	5	9	15	N	Y	Expert Analysis:	Brzezinski is familiarly precinct, efficient and far reaching.  In this book he puts on display his characteristically deep analytic skills on a topic he has spent many years as a professional strategist and lecturer.  Though at the time of its publishing, when the world was in a much more optimistic mood and globalism was on the march, his approach seemed to hark back to a bygone era, nowadays in this time of hawkish politics, he does not seem to be that far off the mark.  His rationalism should not be confused with the views of the current ideologues on the right though.<br />Certainly, his take on US [power], and its logic of inevitability, may not be that acceptable to some, but still, it only reflects reality, not necessarily a moral judgment.  Regardless, rather than simply focusing on and explaining the present based on recent past, like many professional talking heads do, he has actually made some bold projections into far future.<br />He points at Asia as the center of this grand chess game and concludes it is there where the final moves will be played out.  With his excellent knowledge of Eastern Europe, Russia and Far East, he makes an excellent argument.<br />His few attempts at placing Middle East and Islam in the picture fall far short though; he fails to go beyond worn-out clich&eacute;s.  When was the last time an Islamic revolution got exported anywhere, really?<br />This is a valuable and interesting book reveals much about super-power strategic thinking process, written very clearly, and I added the last star for his efforts to draw a map of the future geo-politics.  Highly recommended for anyone interested in these topics.	2003-08-16
US	51842313	RBQ4W6NYV39Y0	039332396X	847218561	The Tragedy of Great Power Politics	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Power Plays and Hegemons	It is a thought provoking book altough it seems a lot more pages were used up than necessary to prove a rather self-obvious fact. It was still interesting as it displayed the raw calculus of international power, its shocking lack of any moral dimension, how it can be quanitified and various factors that influence the \\"efficiency\\" of it.<BR>The timing of the publication, on the eve of the Iraq war/invasion, was also superb of course. Though he comes close, he does not present his \\"offensive realism\\" theory in the context of the current USA policies and actions. That would have been a very interesting test case indeed. In fact, he maintains a rather narrow story line, makes repetitive arguments and fails to expand the discussion into the future instead.<br />Mearshimer claims that the survival instinct and the very nature of power will force international players to seek dominance and influnce at the expense of others. He could have stated somewhere that it has to happen at the expense of others since the global geography is finite. Of course it was not always so, as Spain, Portugal, and Dutch for example, were able to expand their hegomonies and empires on the cheap at a time when this could be done without a cost to the exisiting great powers. This also never gets mentioned specifically, though the author seems to imply it by limiting his analysis to the era following the age of great discoveries. In fact, he uses a rather historically narrow range of examples to make his case, and some of the great empires of the East, Levant and Mongols are completely missing from his analysis. As a result, there is too much repetition of the examples of Prussia, Austria, UK, USA, France, Russia and Japan and their conflicts. Same wars are used repeatedly to explain a large nuber of different aspects of his theories.<br />A stunning omission was the complete lack of any serious reference to international organizations that were set up in the hopes of moderating the very tragedy ofgreat power politics Mearsheimer exposes. Even if he did not think an organization like UN has any significant influence in this matter, and there is much in support of this, this should have been articulated more clearly in a book with such a title.<br />A treatment of European Union's attempts at presenting itself as a great power, and why it fails at this so badly as a result of not having any \\"projectable\\" power would have been a valuable and relevant addition to the book and also support his basic thesis.<br />Aside from his choice of some ear jarring-terms like \\"buck-passers\\" (not clear if these are part of the generally accepted academic lingo), and sometimes too lax and uneven style, the writing is spiced up by some interesting quotes he has sprinkled in between. There are plenty of references, it is well researched and obviously Mearsheimer is an expert on great power dynamics and history maybe with a special personal interest in the 19th century European arena.<br />It is a good read especially given current events and discussions.	2003-06-04
US	51842313	RRL0X3U5NLU3U	006000438X	759689844	The Death of Vishnu: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Passage Through Bombay	A delicious book. A stunning debut.  Manil chooses an average apartment in an average neighborhood as a port hole into the vast Indian lower middle class.  He works in the rich tapestry of Indian culture and daily lore with great efficiency for a modest book.  There are no complex plots, deep thoughts or messeges.  Hindu gods, slum lords, social taboos, Muslim neighbors and even the obsession with Guinness records are paraded through.  To top it off, Manil Suri also delivers all this in an comedy style which is highly entertaining.  I hope there is more to come.	2003-06-01
US	51842313	RKKZ8ZK5JI9XS	0425181642	894540459	E=mc2: A Biography of the World's Most Famous Equation	Books	2	7	9	N	Y	Fluffy but not filling	It is lightly written and easy to read but the title was a little misleading.  While it was deeply appreciated not to be presented another cartoon depicting a white and bushy-haired gentleman situated upside down in a coordinate system, the folksy style, a little forced, was not that endearing.  Bodanis is obviously very knowledgeable about the topic and especailly its history.  Still he does not come accross as a good teacher.<br />It was misleading because he mostly describes the consequences of mass-energy equivalence rather than the biogrophy of the specific equation.  The book is full of historical tid-bits that are so much better treated in many other places.  It is not as if the characters and topics are that well connected either, as he misses more important events and names altogether.<br />Given his deep knowledge of history, his description of Heisenberg's activities was more than just dissapointing.  He completely misrepresents the fact that there was hardly a German Bomb project to speak of.  It mostly existed in the paranoid minds of numerous European scientists, who had the misfortune of witnessing Nazi horrors first hand.  They also had a healthy respect for Heisenber's genius.  Heisenberg got some support for mostly scientific experiments, and this was mostly for the purpose of energy generation which Germany needed desperately.  It never went beyond basic investigation, did not even reach the engineering phase let alone industrialization.  They could not even boil a cup of water.  It turns out they were quite off in their yield estimations in any case and that's why they did not think a bomb was feasible.  Oppenheimer was only competing against himself we now know.  <br />By the way, the excellent play \\"Copenhagen\\" by M. Frayn is not fictitious, it is based on the excellent biographical work by Thomas Powers.<br />There are also some, maybe interesting but unrelated detours.  What is the relevance of the lengthy psychological profile of General Groves?<br />The anatomical description of the equation in question is no substitute for an explanation or derivation.  Detailed description of \\"square\\" function makes very little contribution.  It would have been rather simple to get to the relationship as Einstein did, by exploting the wave nature of matter, photon momentum and conservation rules.  This is another key concept that is so central but completely missing.<br />It is possible that a casual reader will encounter for the first time some of the interesting characters and events surrounding Einstein, which are well known to the scientifically oriented, otherwise the book falls well short of the claim on its cover.	2003-02-17
US	51842313	R2352G9YHUBJN4	0394404289	377400426	The Prophet (A Borzoi Book)	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	A Modern Rumi	A timeless classic.  It is a very demanding and assuming title, but Gibran backs it up with some excellent style and content.  If he had the means to publish it a century or two earlier, he could have inspired a new religion.<br />From the mouth of an old man about to sail away to a far away destination, we hear the wisdom of life and all important aspects of it.  It is a messege.  A guide book.  A Sufi sermon. Much is put in perspective without any hint of a dogma.  There is much that hints at his birth place, Lebanon where many of the old prophets walked the Earth and where this book project first germinated most likely.<br />Probably becuase it was written in English originally, the writing flows, it is pleasant to read, and the charcoal drawings of the author decorating the pages is a plus.  I loved the cover.	2002-10-07
US	51842313	R2UGOO5Q72H49Q	186046890X	750150871	Ports of Call	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Triumph of Love	This is a very pleasant read.  It is how a novel should be, effortless and touching essentially human issues, like love and destiny.<br />His third person narrative makes it interesting and allows Amin to voice his own thoughts throughout.<br />It is full of regional colors, characters and history, so typical of most of his writing. Quintessential Mediterane.<br />I was shocked to find out that his &quot;Balthasar's Travels&quot; is yet to be pubished here.  I read the translation, it is a magnificient epic through medival Europe and Middle East, highly recommended also when it comes out this year.  Amin is a master of historical context.<br />The heros of this book live a love story punctuated by wars, family tragedies and cultural and religious tensions.  Most of the background events are the ones that have actually dominated our news for decades, but these folks actually live through it. In the end, their love seems to be the only thing that survives, or is it?<br />Highly recommended for a relaxing and warm reading that leaves a lasting taste and memory.	2002-05-06
US	51842313	R33W9KQ8K4Q0I2	0195142373	484682074	The Nothing that Is: A Natural History of Zero	Books	2	15	20	N	Y	Should have been a great book	It is on the surface a very interesting book. One wonders why much more was not written about it. Kaplan is obviously very knowledgeble about the topic but he exerts himself a little too much at times to show that he has a lot to say about many other tangential topics as well.<br /> The history of zero, as a concept, as a math tool then beyond it, as a philosophy is covered well, not in great detail but enough to give a flavor of its adventures through our civilizations through ages. He falls on the side of Eastern Mediterranean and Middle Eastern roots of zero as a number rather than India, but the arguments are rather weak and evidence pale.<br /> Kaplan's often very convoluted and meandering prose takes a great toll as you force yourself through the book. His philosophy dripping muses, which seem to have more personal origins than general, creates a fog around the real topic. He takes every opportunity to show off his considerable knowledge of Classics. A good amount of philosophy is to be expected given the topic, but his relentless contortions of language and side thoughts makes it an unpleasant read. Where was the editor?<br /> His discussion of quantum fluctuations of empty space was a very relevant stop along the way, but it seems he has confused it with cosmic background radiation, which is a totally different physical phenomenon, and misses out on a great chapter by itself.<br /> It is a great subject, and Kaplan certainly does not attempt to cover it in more traditional historical style, which is commended, but I wish it had less poetry and philosophical musings of personal nature and more zero in it.	2002-03-13
US	51842313	R2MF6BFEJ7TRN2	1860465137	213374670	Salman the Solitary (Panther)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Classic Yasar Kemal	A good story told vividly, old world setting, unusual people, customs and surroundings.  His writing is like a bright painting.  Even though translation, which done by no other than Y. Kemal's recently departed dear Thilda who did almost all of his translations, inevitably costs some of the luster of the language and depth of expression, it is still haunting. The setting is his beloved Cukurova. People, a mosaic of the Anatolia he dreams, Turcomans, Kurds, Arabs, Armenians, Circassians, and all who have called it home, their customs, rituals, and fears and conflicts parade in the book. What may not be too obvious to someone not familiar is that, he draws a picture of the landscape that is about a century old almost.  Early days of the Republic, institutions and culture in transition, melting pot of the Empire slowly in reverse, turmoils and tragedies of World War I still quite fresh.  A theme that comes up quite often in Kemal's books, and gets a little old.  He seems to have been stuck in a certain time period. The book is pleasant to read.  His style of mixing time slices and simple, non-analytic prose relying more on painting of scenes and people is quite powerful.  Some of those scenes tend to be rather violent and uncut, remiscent of the \\"Koylu\\" writers movement that was so popular in Turkey in the 50s and 60s. Like many of his works, this book also reflects the rich texture and traditions of Anatolia.  Y. Kemal is certainly one of the greatest story tellers of our time.  Recommended read.	2002-01-12
US	51842313	R1HUMRAAJJIC1B	006103004X	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage	Books	2	0	16	N	N	A Tour Album	This was very dissapointing. I expected a reality based novel, but it turned out to be a highly expanded tour book of sorts for the USN Submariners. A forced attempt at dropping as many names as possible so that they may take their due place on stage.    Obvious bait for Hollywood. <BR> Lacks depth or any serious literary skill. Feels like one long newspaper interview. Especially lacking was mention of the moral aspects of having one's finger on the trigger of a doom's day machine. Hard to believe this never occupied any of the thoughts of the men and women manning these marvels of technology and dispensers of indiscriminant destruction. So little mention was actually made of the real hero that enabled these brave men to navigate with such ease in the endless oceans of our planet: 20th Century science and engineering.	2001-12-24
US	51842313	R39HB1D2P25MYZ	0374131430	853021791	Crescent and Star: Turkey Between Two Worlds	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Analysis From Inside: The Real Picture	This one of the best books on this subject recently undoubtedly.  Kinzer has done a great job in exposing the most relevant aspects of a complex country expertly highlighting the interconnectedness of it all that has eluded many other writers.  His journalist intution has kept him in focus and at the same time always sensitive to context.<BR> One really feels that he tells from personal and direct experience in Turkey, not from book or journal research.  He has also done what many have failed: include the common man's view of events in Turkey and their motivations and the historical and cultural factors behind them.<BR> His conclusions that a much more rapid and positive change in Turkey is very much prevented by the very conservative and protective elite rulers is very much on target.  A fact that is now painfully clear to many there also.<BR> It is written with clarity, manages to touch upon all current issues and good use of references are made.<BR> Even though there will always be some who will disagree with his various analysis and conclusions, he could not be so easily dismissed as he writes about facts with great authority.<BR> This is such a rich and interesting topic that a very large variety of readers are likely to find it a very worthwhile read.	2001-12-24
US	51842313	R1ZZNM7UWM5DZ9	0802775624	793239388	The Joy of Pi	Books	2	2	2	N	Y	What's in a number?	This is a cute little book, full of interesting tid-bits, characters and anectodes, but none useful or worth remembering. One does not need to be a mathematician to enjoy reading it, but it would be hard to really enjoy this booklet without some background. <BR> At the end of it all, we still do not really understand the &quot;real&quot; mystery of this most famous number.	2001-10-30
US	51842313	RYE17VNNGUIZZ	0140280553	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Love is Timeless	I was very impressed with Sobel's earlier work Longitude and I was not dissapointed with this book either. Then again, not many may have the stomach to plod through countless pages of daily details of Galileo's and his daughter's life. Sobel has dispensed with the economy of words she had used in that earlier work.<BR> The book follows the letters written to Galileo by his older daughter in chronological order. This way, those who have not read up on this great man previously, get a chance at the interesting details of his struggle with Catholic establishment also. A two for one.<BR> The details of daily grind, the burden of existence even for well to do in Middle Ages, in the middle of Europe, was very educational. The epidemics, home economics, wars and palace politics all there, as a very rich background. In fact, this lively background sometimes has overshadowed the real subject of the of the book quite often, which is the love and affection between a father and a daughter. It is very touching and captured well, but one still gets the feeling that Sobel used it only as an excuse to write about these letters, Galileo and the larger historical picture.<BR> It is not an easy read if you were simply expecting a more personal story. This book is not a novel. It is extremely well researched and historical context is created and told in immense detail. <BR> Dava has a great sense of history. I am waiting for her next project.	2001-10-01
US	51842313	R3ISTLTCPRXJG1	0312187084	100152270	Constantinople: City of the World's Desire, 1453-1924	Books	4	19	20	N	Y	City With a Thousand Husbands	Mansel has done an excellent job in attempting the daunting task of telling the story of this magnificient city, jewel of the world, and my very own town.<br /> It only covers the period from the conquest of Istanbul in 1453 to 1924, the final days as the seat of an empire. Even someone with a good knowledge of the city and its history will be very impressed with the monumental amount of reasearch done and countless details accumulated. He has captured the glory as well as the feeling of decay of this grand old town well. Last days of the Ottoman Empire, having outlasted Russia and Austria-Hungary, two powers who fought bitterly to topple the &quot;sick man of Europe&quot;, is still one of the most dramatic stories of the last century. It is hard to imagine a more rich setting than where Empires rub elbows and East meets West.<br />To be sure, this book is only about Istanbul/Constantinople, and not about Ottoman Empire. It is written strictly from the point of view of Europeans and non-muslims. Heavy reliance on diplomatic correspondence, memoirs of ex-ambassadors and diplomats is obvious. These are excellent resources, as translations of original Turkish works dealing with period are rare and not many have focused on the seat of the Empire itself in any case. <br />His tracking of well known families of Istanbul, Genovese, Venetian, Greek, Armenian, Arab, Jewish and Turkish, from medival times to modern times was most interesting and unique. It highlights the truly global nature of the city and the rich multicultural heritage of the Ottomans. <br />In the book, fortunes of Istanbul have been followed by the moods of Pera, the nest of all delightful and sinful. Beyoglu still has the reputation as the place where boys become men.<br />What feels like a gaping hole is a lack of investigation of the origins of the Muslim version of the name of the city, Istanbul. So much has been said, so many theories spinned, it would have been nice to include an expert's rendition.There is also a general lack of emphasis on the Muslim portion of the population. Mansel never ventures into their neighborhoods and one never gets a picture of the role Istanbul plays in the hearts and minds of the non-Christian masses.<br />The book is well written and well organized. Critiques can always find a missing aspect as it is impossible to cover all that is interesting about Istanbul in one book. It is definiteley not for the light-hearted and the sea of details can be overwhelming for someone not very familiar with region's history. I recommend it as one of the better and more serious books on the topic.	2001-09-20
US	51842313	R1DLZTWINJA43P	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	9	14	N	Y	Need a sixth star here!	Jared Diamond has shown that history can be studied by scientific principles after all. He goes beyond all cultural cliches, norms and prejudices and draws the big picture relying on numerous branches of science and evidence alone.  It really is a big picture, story of our civilizations, expertly and efficiently stuffed into less than 500 pages.<br />It is just fascinating.  The conquest and inhabitation of huge spans of our globe by people who had such &quot;primitive&quot; technology, especially the story of Madagascar was just incredible.  <br />Note that, he was directly involved with only some of the related research, he has mostly gathered and analyzed the works of many who had already done excellent research in the area.  His writing is very readable, enjoyable and also friendly.  His logic and reasoning are solid.  It is just amusing, scanning through some of the commentary below, how many people got it so wrong.  <br />It is quite ironic that he has employed the very &quot;Western&quot; science and technology to reach to the inevitable conclusions that have come under attack by the staunch &quot;guardians&quot; of the Western &quot;castle&quot;.  It is hardly about East vs West as some seem to have perceived it.<br />My 13 year-old son just inhaled the whole book and declared it the best thing he ever read and we had long discussions on it for quite sometime.  What else can I add to this?	2001-08-04
US	51842313	R17W234MF0M3WK	0312262116	594247236	Not Even My Name: From a Death March in Turkey to a New Home in America, a Young Girl's True Story of Genocide and Survival	Books	2	11	51	N	Y	Old World Stories and Prejudices	It is a tragic story, but bad writing and heavy anti-Turkish propaganda have made this book unworthy of the shelf of any serious library.<br /><br />The only worthwile aspect of the book was the fact that Thea actually  embarked on a journey with her mom to trace her roots back to that  mysterious land, Asia Minor.  Still, she struggles even with the most  basic expressions and names, even her mother's Turkish nickname.  Having a very limited knowledge of the land of her ancestors and its  peoples, and most of it acquired during her trip and from traditional propaganda sources, she still feels qualified to  set the reader staright about key historical facts.<br /><br />It is quite remarkable that her mother's little corner of heaven among the Black Sea  Mountains was intact and untouched through 1920.  Note that the period  between 1911 to 1922 was the time of the greatest disaster that ever fell  upon the Turkish nation, meaning the people who made up the core of the  Ottoman Empire, including non-muslims.  The writer, it seems quite purposefully ignores this simple fact.  Read Andrew Mango's  Ataturk for a real good account of all this.  Note that Turks were  fighting Greeks at the time and their country was destroyed by the ethnic cousins of  Thea while they lived in peace in the heartland of  Turkey. Then, once the invading Greek armies  were driven to sea by Ataturk, there were forced population exchanges  which finally brought an end to the wonderful patch of paradise her mom  was born in.  The fact that Pontus had the audacity to declare an independent state in the middle of Turkey and in the middle of  their war of independence did not help matters much.<br /><br />All this is presented as a genocide, a loaded word that many use rather loosely and freely nowadays.  The story itself does not mention  concentration camps, firing squads, mass killings, or killings at all oddly enough.  It is also not clear why would the impoverished Turkish governement go throgh the expense of moving all these people  in the middle of a war if it only intended to \\"eliminate\\" them at the end as she claims?<br /><br />The contradiction comes alive during the trip where she only meets  \\"nice\\"  people and wonders how they could have been so \\"evil\\" then.  The identity  crisis is also much evident as she describes many customs, dishes,  clothing that has more Turkish and Asian origin than Greek.  The Nasreddin Hoca story (ye kurkum ye) transforming into an old  Pontus folk tale is priceless and makes the point well.  The tea and  hazelnut sets, the games she describes, the flowers, harvesting and the  seasons all familiar to me as I have tasted those in the same area decades  later.<br /><br />Turkey lost a large chunk of its heritage when masses of Greeks,  Armenians, and Assyrians left it for better life somewhere else, sometimes  forcibly.  It took away from Turkish identity and culture in ways not many  appreciate even today.  Of course, the departed left a homeland behind and  took mostly the worst memories with them.  Thea somehow never mentions the  ethnic cleansing of Turks and other muslims from Balkans and Aegean  Islands and Crete, leaving all their posessions,  young and infirm behind, just around the same time.<br /><br />It is a shame that Thea felt the need to lace this wondeful story with  such hateful propaganda, dishonering her  mothers tragic experiences.<br /><br />The book will mean little for those who are not very familiar with the  region or its history.  Otherwise, a very interesting and turbulent time period has been captured through a child's eyes. Such time capsules of daily life and ordinary people of rural Turkey of the time are extremely rare and it is likely the author has not appreciated this.<br /><br />It is written  poorly, sometimes trying too hard to exploit the emotions, and the historical tid-bits sprinkled gave away the real aim of this project.h the expense of moving all these people  in the middle of a war if it only intended to \\"eliminate\\" them at the end as she claims?<br /><br />The contradiction comes alive during the trip where she only meets  \\"nice\\"  people and wonders how they could have been so \\"evil\\" then.  The identity  crisis is also much evident as she describes many customs, dishes,  clothing that has more Turkish and Asian origin than Greek.  The Nasreddin Hoca story (ye kurkum ye) transforming into an old  Pontus folk tale is priceless and makes the point well.  The tea and  hazelnut sets, the games she describes, the flowers, harvesting and the  seasons all familiar to me as I have tasted those in the same area decades  later.<br /><br />Turkey lost a large chunk of its heritage when masses of Greeks,  Armenians, and Assyrians left it for better life somewhere else, sometimes  forcibly.  It took away from Turkish identity and culture in ways not many  appreciate even today.  Of course, the departed left a homeland behind and  took mostly the worst memories with them.  Thea somehow never mentions the  ethnic cleansing of Turks and other muslims from Balkans and Aegean  Islands and Crete, leaving all their posessions,  young and infirm behind, just around the same time.<br /><br />It is a shame that Thea felt the need to lace this wondeful story with  such hateful propaganda, dishonering her  mothers tragic experiences.<br /><br />The book will mean little for those who are not very familiar with the  region or its history.  Otherwise, a very interesting and turbulent time period has been captured through a child's eyes. Such time capsules of daily life and ordinary people of rural Turkey of the time are extremely rare and it is likely the author has not appreciated this.<br /><br />It is written  poorly, sometimes trying too hard to exploit the emotions, and the historical tid-bits sprinkled gave away the real aim of this project.	2001-06-20
US	51842313	R2SRSUAG5TWBGN	0815750234	96416491	A Changing Turkey: The Challenge to Europe and the United States (Studies in Foreign Policy)	Books	4	14	17	N	Y	West meets East: A hug or a kiss?	Kramer has very expertly reviewed all of the major forces shaping the internal and external politics and policies of modern day Turkey.  His detailed knowledge and insight of the dominant cultural, historical, and political forces in action, pulling towards and away from EU, is impressive.<br />He has seperately analyzed all major Turkish geopolitical theaters starting with EU, Balkans, USA, Russia, Central Asia, Middle East, Greece and Cyprus.  His analysis is very sharp, balanced and rich until the last chapter where he was supposed to &quot;offer&quot; a recepie for keeping Turkey in the Western camp.<br />A number of points need to be made with respect to some his conclusions and views.<br />Much of his data seem to follow newspaper headlines.  One does not feel that his resources were real people.  Among all the players he goes through, he fails to mention Turk-Is, or DISK or the student movements even once, which was quite puzzling.  These were indirectly responsible for at least two military &quot;interventions&quot; and various government changes.<br />More cultural autonomy to Kurdish part of the population is presented as a very large hurdle since it is expected that the Turkish establishment would not be able to tolerate the political independence movement that would &quot;naturally&quot; result from this cultural liberation.  Question is why would unlimited cultural liberation to a segment or whole of a population should result in a threat against the unitary state?  Is there a &quot;Turkish Party&quot; in Germany?  Is there a &quot;Mexican Party&quot; in USA?  Is there a &quot;Asian Party&quot; in UK?  There is no basis for the assumption Kramer makes that &quot;Kurdish&quot; voters would vote differently than any other ethnic group in any other open democracy.<br />Kramer fails to make a distinction between EU memebership and being part of the Western &quot;camp&quot;.  Turks are what they are irrespective of some organization here or there &quot;decides&quot; what they are or where they belong.  The process of &quot;belonging&quot; is quite out of the control of EU officials and it only looks that way because of the way numerous Turkish beurocrats have been stuck with a stale interperatation of the vision Ataturk developed 80 yrs ago.<br />While Kramer appropriately points out how the Turkish public at large has been kept out of the EU memebership debate, he shies away from making any statements concerning the real benefits to Turks of an EU membership.<br />He is correct also in highlighting how Turkey is missing from any EU policies concerning Middle East, Balkans and Near East, and how this complicates post-cold war policies of Turks, he should have mentioned that such EU policies are non-existent altogether.  They may need to be formulated soon.<br />Last chapter was a let down.  He simply fills the pages with motherhood statements and fails to make some bold and honest statements.	2001-06-15
US	51842313	R22UP2JZCPOK8M	0738202037	697514957	Supersymmetry : Unveiling the Ultimate Laws of Nature	Books	3	12	14	N	Y	Some science some propaganda	An unabashed propaganda for the cause of supersymmetry.  Gordon Kane has written this with mostly the future funding for this field of science in mind, which is obviously very near and dear to him.  A bait in the form of a foreword by Witten completes the picture.<br /> It is a good read and sums up the current issues and frontier nicely and maybe too simplistically.  He has made little effort to include other perspectives or other related activities and places developments in historical context rather poorly.  The habit of referencing to future sections and then continuously referencing to the previous chapters gets a little annoying.  It is not a very dense or thick book.<br /> Only chance Kane gets to make it a little interesting was the description of those engineering marvels, colliders and detectors and he cuts it very short.<br /> One can not help but marvel at the confidence Gordon Kane and his colleagues have in the supersymmetry physics.  Other than mathematical consistency and a sense of &quot;balance and elegance&quot;, little else is there to support it.  Sure, the arguments are very logical and smart but personal beliefs should not pass as science and Kane comes real close to it.<br /> Still, it is good stuff.  Certainly not a waste of time for anyone who was remote to the topic.	2001-03-22
US	51842313	R3UUINJ8EXCL6F	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	Science or Religion?	Brian Greene sometimes sounds like the high priest of Babel of Physics in this book.  It is quite understandable when one attempts to explain the theory of &quot;everything&quot;.  To most scientists, modern physics is truly another way to experience God.<br />He shoud have been a little more aware of his potential audiance though.  It is a sure bet that anyone who picks up a 450 page book on this topic has some appropriate background and some of the cartoons and freshman textbook examples simply do not fit in.<br />It is a very daring attempt and he has tried to cover all aspects and directions without simplifying generalizations that are supposed to help the average reader but in reality a cop out for explaining the difficult.  This was much appreciated.<br />He has obviously penetrated the heart of the issue and writes with authority.  It is very present tense and forward looking as opposed to long historical analysis.<br />It is still a hard read.  Editing could have been better and some sections were obviously added at very different times.  I would also recommend Michio Kaku's &quot;Hyperspace&quot;, which is much better written and with good historical context.	2001-02-10
US	51842313	R26XYBOJCDLCIN	0847685535	896197155	Turkey's Kurdish Question (Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict)	Books	4	10	14	N	Y	Burden of a State	What does one do when there are more nations than states?  Henri Barkey and G. Fuller have done a great service to the citizens of Republic of Turkey with this excellent book.  It is a snap shot of all of the key factors, players and parameters surrounding this deadly conflict that causes tremendous suffering and drags an otherwise a very dynamic, open and vibrant society down a dark path.  They have avoided detailed historical anlysis, assigning blames, pointless ethnic and cultural debates and focused on what scenarios are likely to take these two nations who have no choice but share a common destiny, a country and a flag, to a peaceful coexistence.  The book's time line seems to go back and forth a bit due to different times it may have been edited or modified and there are some small but still dissapointing typos, but otherwise a very professionally done investigation.  The authors know their topic and there are plenty of references.    They clearly point out that it is quite feasible to embark on a path to solving this conflict within the boundries of what is acceptable to both parties.  They point out that the solution of the problem is also closely tied to some key and overdue structural reforms that would address a whole range of other obstacles that hinder the progress of Turkey in the global scene.    Contrary to what is implied in the book though, for most Turks, being a Turk is not an ethnic identity.  Most Turks are well aware that such classification is not possible in the first place as almost all races, religions and ethnic groups are well represented among the citizens of Turkey, including Kurds.  There are those extreme nationalists of course who may believe in a &quot;theoretically&quot; pure nation, but most people do not take these concepts seriously.  Keep in mind that Turks, however one may define them, were the last ones to fall victim to the craze of nationalism, even that was mostly by strong prodding by Ataturk.  Secondly, the authors repeat the age old &quot;neglected South East&quot; excuse among the serious sins of the Turkish establishment.  This notion is quite outdated and contradicts the facts.  Turkish State, hard data proves, has been enormously subsidizing this region and its predominantly Kurdish population, at the expense of all other tax payers.  Some of the largest public works projects (in the World!) and investments have targeted this area and mostly without the support of international financial institutions.  It is also ironic that while preaching decentralization, State is also accused of not &quot;doing&quot; enough.  More weight should have been given to how the minority issues have been exploited shamelessly by Western powers and Russia, at the expense of enormous suffering, to rip apart the Ottoman Empire at the end of 19th century.  The memory and pain of this is burned deep in the Turk's psyche.    It is also source of much frustration and cynisism that countries of numerous Europeans who tend to preach Turks about these matters have explicitly racist definitions of citizenship on their books.  In the final analysis, the solution is actually simpler and easier than imagined.  It does not require any fundemental changes (not in this aspect anyway) to the existing constitution which is already mostly blind to religion and ethnicity.  It does require the state to curb its unlimited powers.  It does require a civil dialog. It does require Kurds to put Turks' minds at ease about their very understandable concerns.  It also requires that no foreign elemements be allowed into this matter.    Given how little sacrifice and leadership it would have taken to step away from this deadly spiral, it really is a shame that things got this far in the first place.	2001-02-01
US	51842313	R1THAVIIZ89733	0465057128	122798525	The Pity Of War: Explaining World War I	Books	2	14	21	N	Y	Too Many Topics	For all the effort, emotion and analysis put in it, this book is a bad read and Ferguson has tried to accomplish too much for a sigle volume.<br />To begin with, the book has at least two books in it.  The first one being the analysis of causes, inevitibility and economics of the Great War.  The second is a hapazardly collected, very subjective ideas on why men fight.<br />The style is too cumbersome and some of the analysis was circular.  Some points are repeated over and over.  The economic data was very through and interesting but maybe overdone. He has done a good job analyzing the very beginning of the war and all the possible exits that various parties, mainly UK missed before the conflict got very much out of hand.  Ferguson has made a very good argument about how Britain did not have a compelling reason to enter the war in the way she did and exploded the conflict into catastrophic proportions.  Britain did not have to waste so many of his young for so little gain.  Kaiser was no Hitler.  <br />He has done great disservice to his thesis by limiting his scope only to continental Europe.  After all, Britain's designs on the spoils of the &quot;sick man of Europe&quot;, Ottoman Empire was a major factor in Britain's policy at the time.  With this vital piece of the puzzle missing, the conclusions about Britain's ability or willingness to prevent a World War is doomed to be inaccurate.  Middle East was the prize Churchill was after and his policies left no choice for the Young Turks but to join up with Kaiser.<br />The carnage of the Great War is well quantified and highlights how inapt the generals were and their Napoleonic tactics combined with modern weapons contributed to incredible loss rates in the field.<br />Ferguson fails to give the book a character and a consistent theme.  There is also his personal involvement with the topic that surfaces occasionally and awkwardly.  His analysis and conclusions are not crisp, most of it buried in lengthy arguments and conter-arguments with himself.  Especially in the second half of the book, he is well out of his depth and expertise while he tries to expand into the topic of war and fighting at a personal level.<br />I would only recommend this book only for the very hard-core World War I buffs.	2000-12-14
US	51842313	R1E56DNWXYKW0	0306810115	304555551	Heisenberg's War: The Secret History Of The German Bomb	Books	5	33	35	N	N	History Done Right	Here we see why Thomas Powers is a Pulitzer class writer.  This is an excellent investigation of a very charged, complex but immensly interesting topic and the tragic life of maybe one of the brightest men in history of science.  Powers takes us through the golden years of physics, birth of quantum mechanics, key figures surrounding this unique period, the international brotherhood and the total darkness and bitterness that shattered it in the wake of WWII.  Having grown up in the aftermath of the Great War, Heisenberg, the smartest pupil of the \\"Great Dane\\", Niels Bohr, finds himself suddenly on the \\"other\\" side again in 1939.  In spite of the fact that he never joins the Nazi party, an arrogance that he can afford due to his immmense popularity and fame, he was still considered to be a very dangerous tool of Hitler's ambitions by almost all of his old freinds.  There was good reason to fear, for he had the means and the knowledge to put fission into the service of his country for peaceful and non-peaceful purposes.  Worst of all, he had refused to jump ship and leave Germany, his country, at the beginning of hostilities.  Powers goes into great detail of so called the German Atomic Bomb project, which turns out to be non-existent.  Heisenberg cleverly plays the establishment to put war in the service of physics not the other way around as he puts it.  Incredibly detailed and solid research Powers has done supports this view of Heisenberg's war activities.  His detractors, old friends, many of them jews who have lost family in concentration camps, hold the view that Heisenberg was asked by Hitler to build a bomb but he simply did not know how to do it. The subject is very rich, full of giants of science and world history, characters small and large who cross from physics, math, chemistry, to military to politics and sometimes to very personal levels but all played out in a global theater.  Thomas Powers shows that it is possible to write decent history even from avictor's point of view.   It is worth noting the recent Broadway play by Michael Frayn, Copenhagen, which was motivated by this very book.  The play is daring but still captures only a fraction of the real drama chronicled in the book.  \\"Heisenberg's War\\" is well written.  One gets a good feel of the time period. Very important Farm Hall records have been finally included which was missing from Cassidy's biography.  It may have too much detail for casual reader but a gold mine for the interested.  The irony of the men, who actually built the bombs and dropped them on non-combatant populations, refusing to shake hands with Heisenberg, who contributed absolutley nothing to the Nazi war effort, is just overwhelming.    It is even more ironic that Heisenberg himself witnessed the total destruction of his homeland by the indiscriminant and incessant Allied carpet bombings.  Imagine the fear his intelligence and understanding of nuclear physics caused on the Allied side at the time, when a quasi-attempt was made on his life while he lectured in neutral Switzerland.    Like all greats, Heisenberg also had an ego to match his intellect.  After a failed attempt or two, he removed himself from the position of having to \\"explain\\" himself and kept his silence, only deepening the mystery surrounding himself and the German \\"Bomb\\" project. \\"But the price of silence was steep.  It buried by common consent the question all should have tried to answer: what should a man do when asked to build an atomic bomb?\\"	2000-12-12
US	51842313	R387RG1Z06IIJW	0375701613	113689382	The White Castle: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Light and layered	This was a real pleasure to read.  For a modest novel, it dealt with a multitude of topics and themes and does it so effortlessly that one is sometimes quite unaware of it.  It is on the surface a history novel, a memoire, East and West, Christianity vs Islam, Orientalism vs positivism, and at the end a search of self, identity.  The style and translation is very breezy, written with good economy, one almost wishes for a few more chapters. The very end is so masterfully done, one is left with a mild shock, disbelief and looking in a hall of mirrors almost. This is a quite different approach from some of his later work, which tends to be much more detailed, specific and heavy reading, like &quot;Black Book&quot;. &quot;White Castle&quot; is what literature should be, fun, thought and most importantly emotion provoking.	2000-12-02
US	51842313	R28CRCE7KX1YV2	1585670111	840921070	Ataturk	Books	5	21	27	N	Y	A Timeless Statesman	Mango has done a great service by providing us all with this Biography.  This book is bound to replace Kinross's classic as the ultimate reference for the international reader and historian.     To be sure, there is not much new information, as the life of this great man was investigated in great detail by many for decades.  Still, the analysis is fresh, more details of the personal life emerge, and much more importantly, the events are related to most recent developments and trends in modern Turkish politics.  Even modern Turks tend to forget how much of the Ottoman institutions have been carried over to the new Republic and how an Ottoman upbringing Ataturk had.     It is still remarkable and inspiring to seee one more time how this soldier, who spent most of his adult life soldiering and fighting to hold a crumbling empire together, also possessed and developed the qualifications and the skills to plan and lead a whole nation to modernity.     He was a genius in identifying the key elements that would define and bind the Turkish nation forever.  It was not religion, race nor ethnicity.  This was his real genius and what makes him timeless.  Much of his ideals are as modern today as they were then.       One understands better why Turks have great reluctance to revise or update even some of his most outdated ideas and institutions since they had such good track record.  Ideas and models that can not be directly attributed to him or to his day have great difficulty in taking hold, which is a serious problem for modern Turks also.     It is also important for the reader to realize that Military Schools were the major venue for higher education in the Ottoman Empire.  Almost all Muslim (even some non-Muslim) Ottoman elite wore uniforms.  Military was the only profession most young Turks aspired to.  This was very much the established Turkish culture for centuries.  Almost all of Ataturk's close friends who shaped and led the new nation were military educated.  This goes a long way explaining the very special role military plays today in Turkish politics and society.  A lot of Westerners have great difficulty understanding this and make very wrong analogies sometimes.     Andrew Mango has used the original sources extensively.  His knowledge and expertise of the topic is admirable.  He did envision this to be a classic obviously.  He has also done a very good job identifying in detail all the names and key characters that surrounded Ataturk on his epic journey from Sultan's loyal officer to Presidency of The Republic of Turkey.  His biographical notes and chronology are extremely valuable additions to the book.       His final chapters were very well written and contain very good analysis.     May be a hard assignment for a reader who has no background on this subject but plenty of help is available in the book.  It is a must for anyone who is even mildly interested in the topic or the area.	2000-12-02
US	51842313	R1QG5KQZTAUJDG	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	4	5	8	N	Y	A Crystal Ball For World Political Geography	It was a pleasure to read this book in the light of current and recent global events.  The author's deep insight into the societies and cultures so different than his own is remarkable. Clearly, he has first-hand  knowledge of this topic. He has tried very hard to quantify and back up his  analysis, a quite welcome for this type of subject area. The attempt was  clearly to investigate the interaction and dynamics of various  civilizations.  It was not about theory of civilizations, definitely not  about cultures.  Many critics seem to have missed this point. The author  also makes some bold statements and does not shy away from reaching some  conclusions.  Predictably, this gets him into a lot of trouble with some of  the readers, and this is the price it seems he is glad to pay. He does not  necessarily push a certain scool of thought, and in fact, correctly  identifies the natural instinct of scholars to anchor such analysis in the  Christian-West-European philosophies.  The book places too much emphasis on  the religious divides, and how the history and development of religions has  positioned various civilizations where they are today.  He does not venture  beyond religion as the main differentiator and ignores the obvious  possibility that religion itself is an effect not necessarily the cause.  There is East, where the group is the entity for which all sacrifice is  made to maintain, and there is West where individual is the entity for  which every sacrifice is made.  This basic difference in relative position  of an individual with respect to the society he belongs to is what has  created and fueled history to most degree. This is the source of all  confusion about human values and why all sincere attempts of many  well-intentioned Western statesmen to unify our world under one standard of  &quot;human rights&quot;, mainly the Western version, runs into such  difficult oppostion from China to Palestine.  The book misses this key  point. The most problematic part of the book where the author seems to have  taken some leave of the good sense he has shown everywhere else was the  section explaining the tie between Islam and terrorism.  His attempt to  quantify and prove this &quot;relationship&quot; scientifically with  numbers was even more apalling.  Especially given the fact that the  previous century has witnessed massive destruction of human lives in  convulsive global wars precipitated by various nations who lead that  &quot;Western&quot; club, this distraction about Islamic terrorism was a  puzzle to this reader.  In so far the author avoids the kind of detailed  analysis which is obviously not his strength, the book gives a good account  of global cultural and political forces in action and how they are shaping  our common political and economic future.  It is written well, has a good  flow and stays focused on the subject.  The analysis is well founded. I  recommend highly.	2000-05-09
US	51842313	R3N0PX1Q5TP6D8	0805040811	883097346	Lords of the Horizons: A History of the Ottoman Empire	Books	5	54	57	N	Y	A refreshing treatment of a topic that has been much abused.	It was a delight to read this book even though the topic was so familiar. One had to contend mostly with very narrow and stuffy academic treatments or blatant propaganda until recently if one wanted to just learn, as an  ordinary interested person, about one of the last great empires, Ottomans.  Even as a student of recent Ottoman history, much new perspective was  gained. It is easy to read and enjoyable. It captures the colors, sounds,  smells and tastes of this fascinating empire, its times and its adventures,  effecting so much of what happens around us even today. How the Ottomans  managed such a huge, multi-ethnic, multi-religious society for such a long  time is also a very timely and relevant topic given the global political  developments following the end of the Cold War. There are some quirks of  style such as notes that lead to no interesting or related facts but seem  to go tangential and comments that seem to just hang in the air, but it did  not distract from the flow of the story at all. Readers without any  background in the topic or region may feel lost a little at times as some  of the reviews suggest. Historical accuracy and references are excellent,  especially for a self-proclaimed travel-writer. It was especially  appreciated by this reader that a strict chronological story line was not  followed, which distinguishes it from other &quot;history&quot; books. Mr.  Goodwin puts real people and events and motives behind the story, which has  understandably frustrated those readers who would like to see Turks or  Ottomans as pure evil and cause of everything ever done wrong. Mr. Goodwin  does not give them much satisfaction. The Ottomans represented for a long  while an alternate path to civilzation, if only world did not have  boundries. I am still perplexed by the very strange epilogue while the very  end of the empire, which is one of its most interesting and relevant  periods, gets a very brief treatment. One only hopes that more of this type  of writing follows this book. The topic is so rich, so poorly treated and  so many lessons are to be learned yet. I recommend highly for all serious  and casual readers.	1999-09-08
US	51842313	R1OXHKZWJ4HK8K	0231103050	872475043	Imperial Legacy	Books	4	37	39	N	Y	Very timely, scientific, relevant and looks beyond cliches.	Imperial Legacy, composing of various chapters contributed by numerous Ottoman experts, sheds light, especially for non-academicians, on the legacy of a great empire and its imprint on current Middle East, Balkan,  Caucases and North Africa geopolitics, culture, religion and daily life.    Most revealing is how the Ottoman history is not synonomous with Turkish  history. Rather, it is a history of a particular dynasty, and the history  of the peoples, of numerous religious, ethnic and racial background it  ruled over centuries. It is a history of Greeks, Armenians, Arabs, Serbs,  Albanians, and many others. In an effort to distance themselves from the  Ottoman past, which was the anti-thesis of that most powerful 19th century  invention of nation-state, all nations that have emerged from the ashes of  the Ottoman Empire have very diligently and actively ignored or denied the  Ottoman heritage. Most zealous among them was the new Republic of Turkey of  course. In many cases the legacy is very tangible and measurable, like the  current political and ethnic borders of lands that directly or indirectly,  at some time or another, came under Ottoman rule. In other cases, it is  intangible but very omnipresent, like very centralized governments, elite  bureaucrats, lack of noble classes, administrative traditions, obsession  with internal peace at any cost etc.. In other cases, the legacy is there  by its absence, like lack of strong free markets, industrial and  technological underdevelopment. It is a delicate matter though at times to  seperate the pre-Ottoman traditions that Ottomans absorbed and carried over  from Byzantine and Seljuk empires, or very regional characterisitcs that  can not be attributed to Ottomans solely, from the true and unique imprints  of the Ottoman Empire. The various facets of the legacy is investigated at  some depth, albeit very unevenly in each chapter. While Maria Todorova  dives into phlisophy and theory of history in the 4th Chapter on Balkans,  Norman Itzkowitz gives a very superficial treatment in Chapter 3. Present  day perceptions, impact on Arab world and Balkans, administarative and  diplomatic heritage, language, education, economics and cultural legacies  have been specifically treated with adequate references. The militray  subject was very lightly covered given its enourmous significance for the  Ottomans. The imprint on the modern Turkish history and how the young  Turks, CUP and CHP and their struggles with opposing forces play out and  shape politics in Turkey even today, does not get the focus it obviously  deserves. Two other areas left out of the picture were music and  architecture. They do fall a little out of the area of expertise of the  historians contributing to the book but still, Classical Turkish Music is a  very living part of the Ottoman legacy. It exists solely because of the  imperial heritage, and it has been refined over the centuries by very  significant contributions from non-Turks and non-muslims alike. There are  experts who could have been called on to fill these gaps. In short, a very  timely and relevant book. A topic that was very difficult to treat  objectively due to the prejudice and heavy emotions surrounding the  expansion of the Ottoman Empire and its disasterous end, has been bravely  and squarely faced. It promises to be a very rich area of investigation and  research in the future too.	1999-07-31
