US	51841920	R1Y1I5AUXUJ0HS	0553801279	337342267	A Traitor to Memory	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Thank you, yet again, Ms George......	The latest entry in the Elizabeth George libretto is a fascinating yarn through Londoners' minds and pasts. This is definitely one of her longer books (I cannot believe it only took her 10 months to write--pure genius, she is), but to this reader, did not drag at one point through the 700+ pages of suspense.<br />I am not a reviewer that needs to recap the story. Amazon does that quite fine. I believe we are here to rate the books and give our opinions, so what it is worth, here is mine.<br />Amazingly enough, Ms. George is always able to create real people out of even the most minor characters. You feel as if you know the lives of someone who is only featured on one or two pages by her magnificent descriptions. She is truly a master at this. One never knows if the person mentioned in two paragraphs on page, lets say, 246 will be a figure at the end. This is how she keeps us hooked. The Character of Gideon is revealed through a diary of flashbacks, much like her character of Olivia in Playing for the Ashes. This weaves throughout the story and helps the puzzle fit together (almost) at the very end. Helen Lynley is thankfully not quite as annoying as she has been in previous novels. (Perhaps her expectant state will mellow her a bit in future novels) and her interaction with Lynley seems as a real marriage for the first time since I have read through the relationship from the beginning. Barbara is back at her most cynical, while Winston Nkata bares some teeth in his first major entry in a George novel.<br />The end???? Read it twice, perhaps three times. The last 20 pages seem to tie the story together. But I will admit myself to being confused on the very last page. Perhaps I looked into in incorrectly, but it seems to put everything said in the final chapters back and focus on a completely new suspect. Or, were we witnessing a flashback to his childhood acted out, unfortunately as an adult? What is the blue door? (I will also admit, I am still confused by this one.It is explored, but not deep enough to find the true meaning). Any help, readers? Email me.....<br />All in all, a wonderful book. I absolutely adore you, Elizabeth George and am now saddened that I must wait another year to read the next installment. Oh well, perhaps I'll go back to In the Presence of the Enemy or Well Schooled in Murder and re-read them. One can never read too much of these characters, can we	2001-07-03
US	51841920	RPT7YL2IKZBEN	0399147195	469684331	P is for Peril : A Kinsey Millhone Mystery	Books	3	16	20	N	N	Not the best of Kinsey's adventures, but fun in parts	I always look forward to opening my new Grafton novel when thye appear in my local bookstore. Over the years, I feel as if I have come to know Kinsey as a friend, and can always expect a good yarn from her. P is for Peril seems to be two novels in one. The side story about the Hevener brothers and Kinsey's involvement in a real estate action, turns out to be far more entertaining than the main story itself. This being the case of Dowan Purcell, a local doctor missing from his community with a shady disappearance being likely. I found myself, wanting the information about the Purcell case to resolve itself, so icould get back to the real story, in my mind (the subplot). I think Grafton missed a golden opportunity to build a great tale around this instead of focusing on the dealings of a reputed shady medical facility. I work in the medical profession and was lucky enough to understand the terminology used throughout. I do think, however that someone new to this, will find themselves drowning in a sea of terms like HCFA or CPT coding respectively. The ending is also a big mistep in my opinion. Too cloudy for my taste and I suspect many other readers as well. All in all, a fun book, but not a caliber Millhone novel.	2001-06-08
US	51841920	R3NFKKLSRC5GNB	0684854341	774490670	HEN FRIGATES: Passion and Peril, Nineteenth-Century Women at Sea	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Interesting ride along......	&quot;Hen Frigates&quot; is such a specific book, one can hardly imagine the time and research it must have taken to pull it all together. Ms. Druett has compiled list after list, diary excerpt after diary excerpt etc. to transport us into days past. Even though the time periods vary with the womens accounts, the stories all seem to ring the same. Each wife suffered through the same torments of life on the sea, but also in time relished with her husband. This is an interesting fact as husbands could sometimes be away for three years at a time with ittle or no contact home. By allowing the wives to share in the shipping/whaling experience, their marriage became all the stronger, or all the weaker in some cases. It is so easy for we in the 21st century to take advantage of all the amenities we use in everyday life, but the brave women portrayed lived as the sailors lived...sparsely. Raising children is difficult enough on land, but to do it on a ship sailing the seven seas, must have proved to be near impossible at times. All in all, a very interesting book on a forgotten subject.	2001-02-27
US	51841920	R2TAB323P4YZ7O	0684854341	774490670	HEN FRIGATES: Passion and Peril, Nineteenth-Century Women at Sea	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Interesting ride along......	&quot;Hen Frigates&quot; is such a specific book, one can hardly imagine the time and research it must have taken to pull it all together. Ms. Druett has compiled list after list, diary excerpt after diary excerpt etc. to transport us into days past. Even though the time periods vary with the womens accounts, the stories all seem to ring the same. Each wife suffered through the same torments of life on the sea, but also in time relished with her husband. This is an interesting fact as husbands could sometimes be away for three years at a time with ittle or no contact home. By allowing the wives to share in the shipping/whaling experience, their marriage became all the stronger, or all the weaker in some cases. It is so easy for we in the 21st century to take advantage of all the amenities we use in everyday life, but the brave women portrayed lived as the sailors lived...sparsely. Raising children is difficult enough on land, but to do it on a ship sailing the seven seas, must have proved to be near impossible at times. All in all, a very interesting book on a forgotten subject.	2001-02-27
US	51841920	R2UJ848434CI3I	0786865296	680967816	The Ice Master: The Doomed 1913 Voyage of the Karluk and the Miraculous Rescue of her Survivors	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Cold just reading this one!!!!	Ms. Niven has pulled together a wonderful account of the survivors of the Karkuk. This book is simply riveting from beginning to end and a must read for survivalist story fans. The sinking of the Karluk is proven to be just the beginning of the tale, but she never lets us miss a detail of the drifting along the ice for several months. The cracking and crushing of the ice as it works its crushing hands against the ship is described so well, you can almost hear it. These men, stranded on Wrangel Island as their brave captain + Eskimo, lived on mere rations more almost a year and still maintained a sense of hope. The fact that many survived showed that chracter and the will to live can sometimes be much stronger than the perils of starvation and frostbite (May I never find this to be true in my own life....) Each day, is lived in such agony, we the reader, are brought along the journeys with them, and feel as if we are leaving a group behind as the men move about the ice and land. A fascinating book, and well worth reading. After this, I promise you, saying &quot;It's cold in here&quot; will have a completely different meaning.	2001-02-27
US	51841920	RYZXWUHPM9OWD	0684864428	417933053	America's First Families: An Inside View of 200 Years of Private Life in the White House (Lisa Drew Books (Paperback))	Books	5	29	62	N	N	Oh, What a Lovely Piece of Work This Is!	I have been fortunate enough to read Mr. Anthony's brilliant &quot;First Ladies&quot; mini-opuses, and highly looked forward to this epic on the lives of our First Families. I sat for three hours stright with an almost constant smile on my face as I ran through the pages. What an amazing acheivement Mr. Anthony has pulled together! I can only imagine the painstaking research needed to find out the tidbits sprinkled throughout. There is so much information in this novel that it almost boggles the mind at times and is a bit overwhelming. I wondered if everything was sinking in, when I saw Mr. Anthony speak at the Richard Nixon library on CSPAN one night recounting the tales found here. Every story he told was instantly recalled and sentences finished before explaining. The sheer knowledge that one can gain from reading this novel is tremendous. (Where else can you find a list of President's favorite movies? By Reagan selecting Rambo, it does nothing but prove what a complete and utter moron we had occupying the White House under his reign).....Point proven further....When listing President's favorite reading options, Mr Anthony lays out beautiful examples of this. President Clinton enjoys biographies of his predecessors, Eisenhower military biographies and TR, anything he could get his hands on. Reagan? Newspaper comics.....I shall leave my review at that.	2001-01-11
US	51841920	RGVG5NVTKU49B	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An Accurate FASCINATING True Yarn	Mr. Philbrick has accompished the greatest of acheivements, that being a historical novel which makes you feel as if you, the reader were floating on the sea with the survivors of the whaleship Essex. (Pardon the run-on sentence :-). This is not only a book for all ages, it is one FOR the ages. To say I was overwhelmed and taken aback would be a terrible understatement on my part. <br />    This ripping tale of 1800's whaling is a modern masterpiece that in my opinion, should be required reading for all high school students. I do fear however that Hollywood will intervene at a point in the near future and attempt to re-tell this tale. I would suggest any reader captivated by &quot;In the Heart of the Sea&quot; to view a History Channel presentation of History Lost &amp; Found, The Essex. I believe we should not do diservice to the lives of these brave men by putting a Hollywood spin on their story. (Mr Philbrick might disagree as the royalties could prove quite lucrative). Let us leave this history where it belongs, through the pages of a book. In this readers' opinion, this book, in particular is the best place to start your education of the subject. Fabulous, Stunning reading and I will guarantee a &quot;one-sitting&quot; finishing!	2001-01-09
US	51841920	R1FI65KRVUI7H4	0446525502	717558254	The Rescue	Books	2	3	4	N	N	As a Sparks Fan, I was terribly disappointed	I have been an avid reader of all of Nicholas Sparks' novels since he was first introduced to me. I must admit sadly, that The Rescue was very mediocre writing at best. I finished this novel in 2 1/2 hours and absorbed every word along the way, but really did not care in the long run about any of these characters. I think Mr. Sparks may have fallen in to a cookie cutter trap as he designed his story, as i felt as if I read this same scenario 300+ times before and in any average Harlequin romance.<br />It does take a rocket scientist to find out where the story is heading after page one of the text. If you read Sparks novels at all, you know the plot: Boy Meets Girl (usually after a tragedy or a mjor event)<br />Boy falls heads over heels for Girl<br />Either loses girl or throws her away for some petty reason.<br />Someone ALWAYS will die (Inevitable in any Sparks novel)<br />This may sound remedial enough, but this is what I felt I was faced with as I read this novel, no better suited for anyone over 18. This is heart tugging, shameless manipulation by the absolute master of his genre. Read &quot;The Notebook&quot; or &quot;Message in a Bottle&quot; for better examples of this writer.	2000-09-29
US	51841920	R30JP82GDQUPO	0151004072	584256950	It's the Little Things: The Everyday Interactions That Get under the Skin of Blacks and Whites	Books	1	53	66	N	N	Perhaps the most Enraging book I have ever Read...	Before I begin this review, I must say that I am sure that my point will be taken and thrown away all the while I am classified a racist. But, I must say that this book provided me with more opportunities to scream aloud than any I have read in some time.       I would not even know where to begin in my criticisms of this work. When I purchased this book, I believed that I would have an even look at both sides of this sensitive topic. How wrong I was. For 260+ pages, I found nothing short of a mass contempt for whites by a society begging for recognition beyond the stereotype, yet NEVER willing to relinquish their victimization status. What did I learn by reading this book? A list follows: (If my points offend, I do apologize. However, since I myself was offended by this book, I believe I have more than a right to express them)<br />1) I cannot flip or touch my hair in public for fear that it will be taken a racist, elitist action by the African American race. Are you kidding me? I seriously doubt that ANYONE who does this is has even the slightest notion of racism going through their minds at that particular moment. Have you ever thought, Ms Williams that maybe their hair is in their face and they wish to remove it?<br />2) I will never be awarded a seat by an African American on a crowded bus even if I were disabled, elderly or nine months pregnant, because of wrongdoings done over the past 250+ years. This is not an issue of race or disrespect, it is one of manners. <br />3) I can never ask anything about the African American heritage, for then I am classified as ignorant about the culture. Now lets see......We are ignorant for not knowing already about the black culture and chided about his in African American circles, yet if I ask a question to find out an answer that I may not know, I am now classified as an oppresser, idiot white girl and a racist for making an inquiry. Hmmm....Sounds like a double standard to me.<br />4) This is my favorite....As you can seeabove, I have used the term African American in all of my points listed above. BUT, I have now learned by Ms Williams' book that some blacks don't like that term as well, because it is a blanket term that whites have adopted in the PC age and now has been watered down one too many times in white society that the meaning is lost. Hang on a second.....Society has been through a PC transformation in the last decade and every word we say is scrutinized and raked through the coals to determine its offending factor rating. The term African American is one of those terms that was thought to be the least offensive and now I cannot say it due to the fact that it is now a &quot;White&quot; term? Ok, I leave it your hands Ms Williams...Am I allowed to address you as anything? I certainly cannot call you by your first name because that is offensive to the race, I cannot call you black or African American because that is now offenisve to the race. I think my solution is to not say anything at all and further compound the problem by staying silent. It is apparent to me after reading this that anything I do say on any subject is taken as a racist statement or an ignorant insight.<br />I wish I could say upon completing this book that I have a better understanding of the race relations between blacks and whites. What I do have is a greater understanding of the absolute contempt of the white race and that EVERY thing we do is not good enough. No matter what we say or even how we move, it will always be taken as a way to keep the black race down where they have been for so many years. I am sure that I will brought up as a racist by anyone that reads my views, so i must ask this. If i am racist, then how is this book seen? If this drivel is not racist, nothing is. So with that, I must thank you, Ms Williams.....Thank you for continuing the racial stereotypes of the stupid white race in black eyes and doing nothing but separating the races even further by offering not solutions to theproblem, but offering a &quot;handbook&quot; for whites to watch their every move, word and action in order not to offend your race. I am appalled and disgusted by your views and will promptly throw your book in the garbage.<br />1	2000-09-28
US	51841920	R2XKT73X4BOSXQ	0679735291	413237642	The Body Project: An Intimate History of American Girls	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Fast Paced Read on an Interesting Topic....	&quot;The Body Project&quot; is a quick study of the plights, lives and loves of adolescent girls throughout the years. Stories are split up into sections, inviting the reader to re-experience their own teenage and early  adult lives. The information is presented clear, unoffensive and well  written. The author obviously went through several sources, such as diaries  to collect different opinions on certain subjects. All of the subjects  discussed are essential discussions in today's society, and one would hope  that the candor and open ways of budding sexuality will remain with us over  the years. People tend to protect their daughters for too long of a time,  not acknowledging their fears, hopes and dreams. Is it better to ignore the  problems, (&quot;The less I know the better&quot;), rather than face them  before embarrassment turns to resentment? A good book for all ages to  explore the psyche of young women through a historical and contemporary  perspective.	2000-06-19
US	51841920	R2NW4HU14YHDDD	0380719088	624970340	Don't Know Much About the Civil War: Everything You Need to Know About America's Greatest Conflict but Never Learned (Don't Know Much About Series)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A great way to pass the time on those long drives.....	My husband and I recently returned from our honeymoon touring Civil War Battlefields. This tape provided us with 6 hours of listening pleasure. Although we are well versed in all aspects of the Civil War, this was still  an enjoyable way to spend our day in the car. Questions are asked, then  answers provided in detail by the reader. A bit patronizing at times (Are  we really that lost, to have to be asked &quot;Who was Abraham  Lincoln?&quot;) but still wonderful information nonetheless about pre-war  conflicts and the events leading up to our nations greatest struggle. The  language and stories are clear and presented in a way that all ages should  benefit. If you are going to listen to an audiobook, why not make it a  learning experience as well?	2000-06-19
US	51841920	R1SQA8QLBDG3KC	0380719088	624970340	Don't Know Much About the Civil War: Everything You Need to Know About America's Greatest Conflict but Never Learned (Don't Know Much About Series)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Pass the car time with a little history.......	My husband and I bought this book while on our honeymoon this year and used it to pass the time while driving through the Midwest. We are self proclaimed Civil War buffs, who actually took a honeymoon touring Civil War  Battlefield Sites, so a beginning lesson in Civil War history was not  necessary. So many details, about the cause, precursors, baettles and  aftereffects of the Civil War are discussed, that anyone can learn  something new from its contents. Asking the questions before laying out the  stories seemed a bit pretentious at time,but the information given is so  valuable, one does not seem to mind. At 6 hours, time slips by without  notice, and gives a history lesson to boot. What more could a person want?	2000-06-16
US	51841920	R3E3TIBL43CQ5P	0895871874	985008478	States of Mind: A Search for Faith, Hope, Inspiration, Harmony, Unity, Friendship, Love, Pride, Wisdom, Honor, Comfort, Joy, Bliss, Freedom, Justice, Glory, Triumph,	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Bravo for a travelogue assisting all people!	I must admit, that I fell into the hype of this book after the whole, &quot;Millionaire&quot; mention, and wondered if this would be another &quot;trek across America&quot;. I am so pleased to say I was completely  wrong. This beautiful collection of stories from the true heart of America  lift your heart, body and soul. I found myself not only envious of the  Herzog's travels, but in a different &quot;State of Mind&quot; altogether.  Americans know nothing more than what is on the other side of their own  fence, and such a shame that is. This land has so many treasures to bestow  on a curious mind, it is mindboggling. Returning from a driving honeymoon  of my own recently to Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana, &amp; Illinois, the  most enriching part of each day, was venturing off the highway to explore  America's forgotten life, the rural town. I am completely enthralled with  this book, and rejoice in some of the lessons it taught me in my own life.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for reason in a hectic  lifestyle.	2000-06-12
US	51841920	R31FSFBCIIN3KQ	0895871874	985008478	States of Mind: A Search for Faith, Hope, Inspiration, Harmony, Unity, Friendship, Love, Pride, Wisdom, Honor, Comfort, Joy, Bliss, Freedom, Justice, Glory, Triumph,	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Bravo for a travelogue assisting all people!	I must admit, that I fell into the hype of this book after the whole, &quot;Millionaire&quot; mention, and wondered if this would be another &quot;trek across America&quot;. I am so pleased to say I was completely  wrong. This beautiful collection of stories from the true heart of America  lift your heart, body and soul. I found myself not only envious of the  Herzog's travels, but in a different &quot;State of Mind&quot; altogether.  Americans know nothing more than what is on the other side of their own  fence, and such a shame that is. This land has so many treasures to bestow  on a curious mind, it is mindboggling. Returning from a driving honeymoon  of my own recently to Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana, &amp; Illinois, the  most enriching part of each day, was venturing off the highway to explore  America's forgotten life, the rural town. I am completely enthralled with  this book, and rejoice in some of the lessons it taught me in my own life.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for reason in a hectic  lifestyle.	2000-06-12
US	51841920	RXSX6B416BERK	0811715159	419403621	The Story the Soldiers Wouldn't Tell: Sex in the Civil War	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Fascinating tale on a taboo subject	Lowry's book, tackles the unmentionable subject,the admission that the men fighting on blood soaked ground, standing up for the preservation of the  Union, valiantly carrying on duties given, were also just men. Normal and  some abnormal sex drives were not only  present but quite commonplace. I  applaud the audacity of a novelist to brave the ridicule and chastizing to  come forth with an important novel such as this. Yes, rape, homosexuality,  prostitution ran wild during the war years, but the point Lowry attempts to  make is, does it really cloud the memories of the time? In a way yes, but  the life although more primitive, we must allow for the carnal desires of  all not to be made feel ashamed, even in those that lived 150+ years before  us when the subject was not spoken of. I found all of the chapters  fascinating and overflowing with interesting facts. A different take on the  Civil war, but a necessary one. Great reading, and highly recommended.	2000-04-19
US	51841920	R35DQ84HSYZHLO	0700607838	523763129	Guide to the Battle of Shiloh	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A must for true Civil War enthusiasts........	My husband and I recently returned from our honeymoon touring Civil War battlefield &amp; presidential sites in TN, KY, IL, GA &amp; IN. In May 1999, we toured eight of the crucial battlefield sites (Gettysburg,  Antietam, Manassas, Chancellorsville, Wilderness, Spotsylvania,  Fredricksburg &amp; Harpers Ferry). What we now know from using these  indispensible guides, has made us ready to go back to the sites visited in  May for the in-depth tours of the battlefields. This guide proved to be  everything we as two Civil War purists could have asked for. As the throngs  of uneducated tourists stopped by each site using the NPS map given at the  visitors center, we enjoyed a peaceful, nearly pristine view of Shiloh. The  NPS maps offer a quick driving tour, stopping at all the major points in  the easiest way to get you around and out of the park not taking into  effect that you are constantly crossing over day 1 and 2 activities without  a true understanding of how the battle unfolded. These brilliant guide  books turned a 1 hour driving tour into a 5 hour comprehensive study of all  events, including tactical and armory information. Beginning with the  approachment of troops, to th first shots fired, to what other battalions  were doing as the battle ensued, this chronological tour is a necessary  edition to anyone wanting to understand the real Shiloh. We found ourselves  on back roads in the woods, off the tourist path, following an old wagon  supply road to a marker tucked neatly inside the mass of wilderness. We  cannot imagine touring a battlefield any other way, and again only wish our  first views of the ones witnessed in 1999, were able to provide the depth  we so much enjoyed with these. If there is one criticism, the quotes were  helpful helping us peer into commanders and soldiers minds, butproved to be  a bit cumbersome at times. The guide for Chickamauga/Chattanooga seemed to  taper on the quotes and instead offered &quot;vignettes&quot; which proved  abit more interesting and put an alternate view of skirmishes on place. Do  not let this deter you in any way from selecting this book if a trip to  Shiloh is in your plans. You will not be disappointed and I recommend it  overwhelmingly over the NPS option.	2000-04-04
US	51841920	R2DG41GL8F3KO5	0688112722	473477955	First Ladies: The Saga of the Presidents' Wives and Their Power, 1789-1961	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A Long Overdue Account	Mr Anthony has pulled together through obvious painstaking research a brilliant guidebook for all history lovers. Accounts of more recent first ladies with the advent of television, radio etc. may be familiar to some  readers, but facts abound on the lesser knowns. Frances Cleveland, Julia  Tyler etc. come alive before your very eyes as the stories unfold. The  position of First Lady (we also learn how that name came about-a tribute to  Dolley Madison at her funeral) was obscure in its development and graduated  into the highly prominent position it is today. Anthony suggests that the  earlier ladies were not as obscure and quiet as one might think. We learn  as we delve into their lives, dressing habits, political views, nicknames,  friends, lovers etc. A foreshadowing element is used throughout hinting at  future events working quite qell as the stories weave around each other. Mr  Anthony must be applauded for an exceptional piece of history. The wife of  a president is not just that as he points out, but a character at times of  strength, adversity, integrity, wit, fear, brilliance, insecurity etc. An  intriguing page turner......	2000-01-05
US	51841920	RUON1LN9PFCTP	051720715X	468476546	Lincoln: An Illustrated Biography	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Breathtaking views of one admired	This gorgeous book is now the crowning centerpiece of my new coffee table. I am the proud owner of several Lincoln books, but none seem to capture the words unsaid in pictures quite like this. We are privy to not only Lincoln  himself, but Mary Todd in her old days (adorned by a pseudo-ghost behind  her), along with Robert and Tad after the White House years. Each page is  filled with stories and anecdotes about our 16th president. Well worth the  money listed. Indulge and enjoy your backstep into history.	1999-12-02
US	51841920	R3UM20X7SOR3B	0809314436	315673634	The Personal Memoirs of Julia Dent Grant (Mrs. Ulysses S. Grant)	Books	3	7	14	N	N	A steadfast reading of a virtual unknown	They say that behind every good man is a better woman. This may not necessarily have been the case with Ulysses S. Grant, but the memoirs of his wife Julia stand the test of time even as if they were written more  recently than 1890. As a rock,Julia remained ever faithful and supportive  to her husband throughout their long, merry union. The love she felt for  her husband is so adequately expressed, it shows that even in the Victorian  time, strong women may not have indeed been an novelty and window dressing  after all. The pages flow freely as she winds through her life with her  dear &quot;Ulys&quot;, but if there is a fault to be found by this reader,  it is this. Given historical writings, although Grant was undeniably the  greatest General to fight for Lincoln's army, he is obviously elevated to  perfected status by his wife. This is understandable, given the resource,  but the facts have stated that Grant was not only a man possesed by the  will to fight, but the will of the bottle. There is nary a mention on  Julia's behalf of Grant's accounted alcoholism. He is also regarded as one  of the nation's least effective presidents (perhaps unjustly, all facts  reconsidered), but in Julia's mind, he was the sole responsibility for  restoring the Union to its former state. Had she put Grant so high on the  pedestal she created for him, she could no longer see his wrongdoings? I  cannot find fault with a wife defending her life partner, but to be so  oblivious when she was purposely called to him in Vicksburg to reduce his  drunken rages, and not mention a thing? Hmmmmmmm...........	1999-11-04
US	51841920	R2RDHV3293E3MT	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The most entertaining read I have had in 1999!!!	I had the pleasure of listening to this novel on Audio tape narrated by the brilliant Michael Beck. Each character came to life through his diverse range of voices, I found myself totally enthralled. In my opinion, Tony  Horwitz has written a masterpiece. I can scarcely remember a time when I  rewound a tape just to re-hear the line I just heard. I laughed aloud so  many times, It is impossible to count. Just returning myself, from a  &quot;Civil Wargasm&quot; of sorts in Virginia, West Virginia, Pennsylvania  and Maryland. I not only re-lived those precius memories, but learned more  about the places I had visited. Each time Robert Lee Hodge was present, my  ears perked up as even though he is a real person, I cannot remember a  character in a book that has stuck with me long after its conclusion than  Mr. Hodge. The &quot;Gasm&quot; is brilliant, along with the discoveries of  Confederate present life in Tennessee and the tensions still prevelant in  Mississippi. I will say this with the utmost confidence, If someone asked  me to recommend the best book I have read in some time to them, I would not  hesitate a moment to say &quot;Confederates in the Attic&quot;. Bravo Mr  Horwitz, I sincerely hope that perhaps some day to will follow this up with  something in the likes of &quot;Federals in the Basement&quot; :-)	1999-06-04
US	51841920	R2C15NK348IH67	0553579754	600228327	Fear Nothing	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The disappointment of the ending, Dean!!!!	I am proud to say that Dean Koontz is my all time favorite science fiction/horror author. I have read everything in his wide libretto and can remember holding onto my seat during masterpieces such as  &quot;Watchers&quot;, &quot;Sole Survivor&quot; and &quot;Intensity&quot;.  I was so excited to read this novel and ended up in a disappointed mood.  The story started out promising and even picked up steam in the middle, but  once I reached the conclusion, to the identity of the monkeys, I was bored  stiff. I thought that Bobby, Sasha and Christopher would be terrified at  the novel's climax in Bobby's beach house. But much to my dismay, they were  cracking jokes, (and not good ones I might add). I was hoping this trilogy  would keep me at Amazon waiting for the next edition. I will read  &quot;Seize the Night&quot;, but as B.B. King said, &quot;The Thrill is  Gone&quot;	1999-06-01
US	51841920	RJKVVOC51YRPG	0380732149	398450731	On the Occasion of My Last Afternoon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Step back in time.....	This was my first experience with Ms. Gibbons writings. I had the fortunate experience of listening to this book on audio. read by Polly Holliday, better known as &quot;Flo&quot; from the 70's series  &quot;Alice&quot;. She had a range with all of her voices which allowed  characters as Emma Garnet, Clarice and the horrible Samuel P. Tate come to  life as I drove down the interstate. I had just returned from a trip  touring Civil War Battlefields in Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland and  Southern Pennsylvania. This book brought me to those places in my mind as  they really were. Gibbons portrays Emma Garnet as a sympathetic, yet strong  woman as she ventures further into her life with her beloved Quincy. If I  had a criticism of this novel, it would be this. Could Emma Garnet have any  MORE people in her life die during the span of the book? As each death  occured (if I spoil anything for future readers, I humbly apologize) I  thought to myself, &quot;Can anyone survive to keep this woman going?&quot;  But all in all, I very much enjoyed the ride. It was portrayed at a brisk  pace and I was spellbound the entire 5 hour length of the audio cassette.	1999-06-01
US	51841920	RBQ7WNOP3N7XI	0553279556	650435497	E Is for Evidence (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	The Creme' de la Creme' of Grafton's libretto!	As a Kinsey Millhone fan, I must say that the &quot;E&quot; installment of the series, is the richest and most suspenseful, (with &quot;K&quot; is for Killer, being right behind it). The book begins almost slowly, but picks up  at a frightening (literally) pace. The middle of this novel is one of the  most surprising I have found in a Grafton novel to date. We are allowed to  glimpse into Kinsey's past marraige to Daniel and find the reason out  behind his abandonment of her. I read through these books the day i receive  them. All I can say, is that when Grafton hits Z, She had better pick up  with 1, 2, 3 etc. because we all would miss Kinsey too much!! Bravo!	1999-04-19
US	51841920	RZGYAF7G7JNTR	0553576089	541516971	In the Presence of the Enemy	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A George fanatic, is speechless with this brilliance!	I have been an Elizabeth George fan since high school, as she is the wife of my former high school principal. She very simply blew me away, with this one. I was in the Phoenix airport waiting for my plane to take off in bad  weather, when approaching the climax of this book. The passengers beside me  must have thought me a fright, when I literally gasped a &quot;Oh No!&quot;  This book had me so completely caught up in the moment, a freight train  could have barrelled through the cab of the plane without a wince from me.  I love the way Barbara Havers begins to come into her own here and as  always, Detective Thomas Lynley is at his charming and sensual best. I have   often said, the idea of a perfect man, is what Lynley possesses. Thank you  Ms. George, for another wonderful glimpse into the Britain that I love so  dearly.	1999-04-19
US	51841920	RMCPQCZG2292G	067101756X	466018903	The Day After Roswell	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Even skeptics must admit validity in this book!!	This book, whether or not you are a believer of what happened that July night over the skies of New Mexico, can make even the strongest of skeptics question their concepts. I truly believe every word of Col. Corso's  testimony. What purpose would this man, close to death have to lie about  the accounts he was privy to? The technology today seems so far advanced  and almost incomprehensible that we could conceive such ideas in 50 short  years. We didn't. We had help. The possibilities are endless and point to  an inevitable conclusion that we are (pardon the cliche') NOT alone. The  discoveries made that fateful night have helped shape the society we live  in today, but I do admit I agree with the coverup. A &quot;War of the  Worlds&quot; scenario is a sure bet, when the country would doubt the world  leaders knowing they cannot defend the skies against visitors from other  worlds. I was thoroughly fascinated and compelled to finish this the first  night I received it. Read this book, again, whether you know about the  conspiracy or not. Your eyes will be opened by the stories of a man who  caught a glimpse of our future, and was brave enough to step forward.	1999-04-08
US	51841920	R2W4FPPB2PCK86	0671520997	982340984	The DIARY OF JACK THE RIPPER	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Intrigiung possibilities surround Mr.Maybrick!	I have studied the Ripper lore for the past few years, and have found any and all suspects difficult to substantiate their motive for being the actual Ripper. This diary, if it is indeed, a true piece of work, sheds a  new light on the inner darkness of one of the most notorious villains of  modern history. The clues, if again they are authentic are unmistakable and  given the circumstances of Mr.Maybrick's twisted life, make perfect sense  and grasp the Ripper's inner torment. I found this book fascinating from  its historical account of Victorian England to the authentification  struggles the author and her colleagues experienced. Even if one thinks the  diary is a hoax, the read in itself is fascinating. Cheers!	1999-04-01
US	51841920	R3835KK4ESN9HU	1854797263	922261060	The True Face of Jack the Ripper	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Well written, but not perfectly convincing in its suspect.	I have studied the Ripper lore for a few years,and always appreciate a good read. The text is extremely well written. However, the scenarios are not adequately described. I have had the wonderful fortune of taking a Jack  the Ripper walk in London and seeing the murder sites in person. Perhaps  after that, my view is a bit jaded, but I have heard arguments on the  killer's identity and have always thought of the suspect named in this  novel a minor one. But, it is enlightening to hear another's opinion. For  the very reasonable price of this novel, I would recommend it, but I do  believe there to be more historical ponderings into this subject. All in  all, an interesting read at the very least.	1999-03-15
