US	51845691	R251E2LNTHLE8G	063404771X	912941572	Hal Leonard Pocket Music Theory: A Comprehensive and Convenient Source for All Musicians	Books	5	134	137	N	N	Everything you'll ever need to know, clearly written, ridiculously low price	I've always liked learning new things about music theory.  But most of the books on the market only teach you so much.  I found this little book in a music store one day, and decided to buy it.  I've bought lots of other general music theory books before, but I've NEVER seen so much packed into such a small volume.  On top of that, the book is written so precisely with the performer in mind, and with practicality as its main focus.  <br /> <br />I gave 5 stars to another book called \\"Music Theory Made Easy\\", and while I don't regret giving it that rating for its own reasons, \\"Pocket Music Theory\\" is about the same price yet covers three times as much material, including how all of it relates to the formal structure of sheet music notation.  It also swiftly addresses the bogus argument that so many rock musicians use an excuse: the myth that learning music theory will limit your creativity.  On the contrary, music theory facilitates communication and lets you better express the creative ideas you have in mind.   <br /> <br />Whether you're a beginner or advanced when it comes to music theory, you're bound to pick up something from this book.  It starts with the most basic fundamentals of sound, and gradually builds off each previous section until coming to composition methods you might learn in a second or even third year course at a music college.  For me, I already long-since knew my scales and modes, but I was still curious about why progressions that go beyond one scale could still sound \\"right\\".  Why do we use a blues scale over dominant seventh chords?  Why do those chord progressions of Beatles songs sound so good even though they go outside of the scale?  This book analyzed the situations and answered those types of questions, and more. <br /> <br />This little book is such an incredible reference manual, and no matter what instrument or what kind of music you play, you're bound to pick up something.  I'm buying extra copies to give to the guys in my band.  Regardless of whatever I reviewed before picking up this book, PLEASE - if you only buy one music theory book in your life, make it this one!  $4.95 is an incredibly small price to pay for becoming a more knowledgeable musician!	2005-06-22
US	51845691	R354ZW8QKZ3WLS	0060963964	873121790	He: Understanding Masculine Psychology	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Mythology as a mirror to the male psyche. Slim,but deep read	\\"He\\" is a book that takes the mythological tale of the Fisher King, and parallels it with stages and traits of the modern male psyche.  Granted the book is a slim one with only about 80 pages, but it's something you can read over and over.  There are so many characters and parts to the classic tale that it's easy to go beyond the meanings and modern examples that the author gives along the way.  After you read it once, I suggest reading it again while sitting down and making notes on the characters and basic outline of the central myth.  It's an insightful read no matter what state you feel your life is in right now. <br /> <br />Not too long ago I saw the movie \\"The Fisher King\\" (Robin Williams, Jeff Bridges) for the first time.  I wouldn't have understood half of what was going on if it wasn't for this book.  As the author even explains, there are different variations to the story, and the movie doesn't match up 100% to the book.  But after you read the book, it might be fun to rent the movie to see another example of the symbols manifested in modern times. <br /> <br />Although the Fisher King story itself deals with the Holy Grail myth, the lessons and over all message are actually quite secular.  The author draws a few religious parallels, but they didn't distract from the main lessons that the myth teaches.  And believe me, I'm talking as a guy who's the furthest from being god-fearing or even a philanthropist. <br /> <br />With so many books on feminism, countless commercials and sitcoms that constantly use the male as the butt of jokes, and universities that even offer \\"Women's Studies\\" majors, it's refreshing to find a book that looks into male behavior without being guilt-ridden and  self-defeating about it. <br />	2004-12-31
US	51845691	R1OCVMR7ANNUDQ	1901447162	822310892	Black Sabbath: Never Say Die! 1979-1997 (Rockdetector)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Finally, the story is told!	We all know about Ozzy Osbourne: sang with Black Sabbath in the 1970s, enjoyed a big solo career in the 80s and 90s, has an immensely successful TV show, and now tours every summer as the headliner of &quot;Ozzfest&quot;, occasionally reuniting with Black Sabbath.<br />But what about Black Sabbath's life without Ozzy?  Ozzy's solo success, combined with the hoopla over Black Sabbath's nostalgic CD re-releases and reunions for the Ozzfest concerts, has sadly led many to assume that Black Sabbath did nothing (or at least nothing worth writing about) in between Ozzy's departure in 1979 and the mark-1 reunions of 1997.  In truth, the band saw an immense INCREASE in new album sales immediately after firing Ozzy in 1979 and replacing him with Ronnie James Dio.  And despite the confusing number of drastic line-up changes that would later hit the band (particularly in 1983-1986), Black Sabbath continued to put out more albums WITHOUT Ozzy than they had ever done with Ozzy, up through 1995.  These and countless other facts are finally set straight in &quot;Never Say Die&quot;, an exhaustive look at Black Sabbath's 1980-1997 history.<br />Like Joe the first reviewer, I've long been a die-hard fan of all things Black Sabbath, and with that considered myself an expert when it came to their 30+ year history.  I've always grabbed and devoured any information I could find -- interviews, web sites, magazine articles, CD liner notes, etc.  I thought I knew just about everything...until I read this book!  There is SO MUCH written here that I had absolutely NO IDEA about.  There's no doubt that much of the information has never been available before.  A good deal of the information is from Geoff Nicholls, Black Sabbath's current keyboard player who's been with them since 1980 (yes, somebody other than Tony Iommi got a chance to play with every other Black Sabbath member!)  It's hard to believe that this guy is still hidden on the side stage during concerts.<br />The format is what you'd expect -- chapters mostly each centered around a particular album or line-up, and arranged in chronological order.  There's a full background of biographical information for EVERY member who was ever in Black Sabbath from 1980-97, plus photos of all the line-ups.  The book also covers every album and tour, why various line-ups didn't work out, the tragic deaths of members Ray Gillen and Cozy Powell, and even the 1985 and 1992 reunions with Ozzy (which is why the book is subtitled &quot;1980-1997&quot; and not &quot;the post-Ozzy years&quot;).  Best of all, the book exhaustively covers Black Sabbath's most confusing and questioned era, circa 1985.  What was the real story behind the mark-1 reunion at Live Aid?  Did evangelist Jeff Fehnholt really write and sing for Black Sabbath, as he claims?  How did Tony Iommi's solo album become Black Sabbath's &quot;Seventh Star&quot; album?  How did singer Glenn Hughes lose his voice?  Read the book and find out.<br />I only have two complaints about &quot;Never Say Die&quot;.  First of all, there are tons of spelling mistakes.  But for some reason, that's typical when it comes to books dealing with some sort of pop culture, so I'll let that slide.  Also, the author seems to speed through the period covering their last two albums, 1994's &quot;Cross Purposes&quot; and 1995's &quot;Forbidden&quot; (which at the time of this writing, is still the newest studio album put out under the name of Black Sabbath).  The last chapter or two definitely feel rushed.  Still, the book deserves 5 stars for being the only one of its kind to cover this history in such depth, and for having an overwhelming amount of information that even a die-hard fan wouldn't know.<br />After so many years of seeing &quot;Ozzy&quot; this and &quot;Ozzy&quot; that, I was thrilled to see a book that acknowledged (let alone fully covered) Black Sabbath's 1980-1997 period.  Even if you're NOT a fan of Black Sabbath, this book is quite an intriguing look at all the crazy stuff that goes on in the music industry that the public never gets to see.  &quot;Never Say Die&quot; is anything but a story about a 70s hard rock band that flopped in the 80s.  It's about a band rich in history, a roller coaster of success and failure, laughter and tragedy, with Tony Iommi AND (even more importantly) Geoff Nicholls bravely staying at the helm, and about a band who kept sacrificing stability for the hopeless success of short-lived reunions.  And of course, it's about 15 years worth of excellent hard rock music that others would like to have you believe didn't exist.	2004-06-17
US	51845691	R1TZKZ0T7PTDF3	0961470178	750006949	002: The New Real Book, Volume 2 (Key of C)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Finally, a legit copy of the jazz musician's BIBLE!	From playing in both my high school's and college's jazz ensembles, it was clear to me that &quot;The Real Book&quot; was the bible of jazz standards.  No instructor was without a copy.  As a bass player, there have been countless times were I was just tossed a photocopy of a page from the Real Book and the instructions of &quot;Here, do a walk over this chord progression.&quot;<br />A number of things made this book the most demanded of its kind.  First of all, it contained hundreds and hundreds of jazz songs in a single volume.  Second of all, it mostly followed a one-page-per-song format, showing the most essential parts: the chord and structure changes, the introductions, and the melody.  If a song seemed to center around something like a particular repeated bass line, then that line was also shown.  And last but certainly not least, the type face and unique &quot;hand written&quot; look made it the by far easiest book to physically read (no eye strain!)<br />Unfortunately, The Real Book was next to impossible to hunt down.  No music stores carried it, or at least admitted to carrying it.  It was pretty much an under-the-counter item that you could only get if you knew somebody.  I guess these $50 books were always secretly copied and bounded in some local guy's basement, in hopes of skirting all the legal copyright issues.<br />Finally, Sher Music Co. has taken the original Real Book, got copyright clearance from each and every living composer, and in so doing even got to correct many mistakes based off the the composers' very own lead sheets.  They also threw in a number of full-page photographs of jazz greats.  The result is the only LEGAL, updated, and widely obtainable version of the original underground book.<br />One of the reviewers here seemed to make the gross assumption that this is a piano book.  It's not.  It's a book for everybody in the band.  The fact that there are C, Bb and Eb versions of the book should tell you this.  I've always been amusedby &quot;Piano/Vocal&quot; sheet music books for bands that never even had a piano or keyboard player.  For rock bands, they usually attempt a bad transcription of the guitar on the treble clef, and an even worse transcription of the bass on the bass cleff (written an octave down, of course).<br />Which brings me to the reason why this book was always called &quot;The REAL Book&quot;: it's because it didn't take the shortcuts that &quot;Fake Books&quot; take.  &quot;Fake Books&quot; are called such because they allow you to &quot;fake&quot; the song, i.e. dumb-down some chord changes, play it in a presumably easier key, and usually even try to adapt the whole song to the single instrument of piano.  <br />It's so great to see a legit copy of this book in print.  If you play jazz, this is the one book always worth investing in.	2004-03-06
US	51845691	R34NID2FXJ59J2	0769248063	243311791	Modern Electric Bass, Revised Edition (Book & CD) (Alfred's Artist Series)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Incredible wealth of exercises.  1/2 the price of the video!	First of all, I'm not a die-hard Jaco fan.  Hell, he isn't even in my personal top 10 list.  So my reason for giving this 5 stars is not &quot;because it's Jaco&quot;; it's because this package contains a WEALTH of bass knowledge and exercises designed for the non-beginner, jam packed into a 36 page book and single CD. <br />The contents of this book/CD package were directly taken from the video edition of the same title.  But the book/CD stands alone as a separate product; you DO NOT need the video to make sense of it.  In fact after I bought this, it was still years before I got to see the video.  <br />The book starts off with a quick review of the scales and modes, and the rest consists of transcriptions of all the exercises and solo pieces found on the CD.  One thing that sets some of these excercises apart from other books is that they're fun and musical, not boring and mechanical.  You may have learned all your scales and modes before, but these exercises have you practicing and playing them in new ways and in new position.  Jaco also covers the use of chords, harmonics, playing in odd beat divisions, and plays a few solo songs that really put it all together with groove.  All of the exercises are GREAT for helping you think-out-side-the-box.<br />Aside from the exercises, the CD also contains some of the band-performed music found on the video and interview clips. Jaco talks about subjects like the importance of reading sheet music (a good reason why this book contains no tablature), how he became a bass player, and playing different musical styles.  <br />Considering this book/CD set has pretty much everything from the video and costs half as much, I'd actually recommend this product over the video itself.	2004-03-06
US	51845691	R2419SMC8KOYUT	0916410668	906820562	Right-Brain Teasers: A Photo Quiz for the Mind's Eye (Brainwaves Books)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A refreshingly different kind of brain teaser book	Being a life-long lover of puzzles and mind games, I've collected lots of brain teaser books over the years.  The title of this book really caught my eye.  After all, aren't all brain teaser books &quot;left-brained&quot; by definition?  Not necessarily so with this book.<br />The format is quite simple: each page shows a house-hold invention from the 18th or 19th century, along with the real life dimensions of the object written at the bottom of the page.  Your challenge is to find out what exactly the device was used for.  This forces you to think about things creatively, not just in a linearly logical way.  Each answer also includes some very interesting history on how the tool was put into overall practice, and other related customs for the times.  <br />There are countless puzzle books in print, most of them dealing with the same old word problems and lateral thinking problems.  But this one offers something creatively different than the rest.	2004-01-26
US	51845691	R3S6U15KHHVVL0	0739029061	542626533	Girl's Guitar Method, Bk 1: Everything a Girl Needs to Know About Playing Guitar!, Book & Enhanced CD	Books	2	24	37	N	N	Deceiving title.  No different than any other modern guitar book.	The far, far majority of rock musicians have always been male.  I honestly have no idea why, but that's the hard truth.  As a result, few companies ever bothered to market something specifically for female musicians.  However, by the mid-1990s a significant number of guitar-driven bands with one or more female musicians had made waves on the scene (White Zombie, The Breeders, Veruca Salt, Smashing Pumpkins, Jewel, Hole, Cheryl Crow, etc.).  And today, a higher percentage of women can be seen in the local music scenes and even in working in musical instrument stores.    Tish Ciravolo took advantage of this new target audience and created Daisy Rock: a line of guitars and basses created for female musicians.  Not only are they made to look more \\"girly\\", but since women are physically different than men, the guitars also have a different contour in the body and the length is scaled smaller.  It was a smart move on Ciravolo's part, and one that was long overdue.  For women who want to start playing guitar or bass, I highly recommend checking these out.      It was all because of Daisy Rock's success that Ciravolo was approached to write a guitar book.  Hence, \\"Girl's Guitar Method\\".  It's a guitar book/CD for beginners with some flowery graphics and...well, unfortunately that's about it.    In and of itself, the book is a decent guitar lesson book.  It includes what you normally find in other guitar books: tablature readings, instructions on how to tune, construction of chords, a chord dictionary, and modern examples (\\"alternative music\\" and the like) to listen and play to, structured into lessons that start at the most basic level and get increasingly advanced.  But strip away the curvy fonts and other girly doodles, and you're left with a book that's really no different from the numerous other guitar books on the market today.  To me, that makes the title rather deceiving, especially to those just starting on the instrument.      In all fairness, I don't see how one COULD write guitar lessons for women specifically.  It would be like trying to write a book called \\"Men's Crochet Method\\", by taking a random crochet book and putting Freddy Kreuger's sweater on the front cover, maybe an irrelevant centerfold inserted too.  Same book, just repackaged in order to market it to a new audience.  Unfortunately, \\"Girl's Guitar Method\\" is no different.  I'm sure some will blindly assume I'm a chauvinist and mark this review as \\"not helpful\\" just out of spite, but for those who value your playing more than fancy marketing, you may first want to check out some of the much more informative (and cheaper) guitar books out there.	2003-09-16
US	51845691	R33MN94JHHT5NX	0769207057	709738312	Led Zeppelin -- Complete: Piano/Vocal/Chords	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Piano/Vocal edition (white cover) is good...for what it is	There are several different editions of \\"Led Zeppelin Complete\\".  I own the one with the white cover and blue clouds, which is basically a \\"piano/vocal\\" edition, so that's the version that I'm reviewing here.  I bought it back in '89 when there seemed to be no other Led Zeppelin music books in the stores.  The book covers all the songs from the first 5 albums, minus the cover tunes (Lemon Song, You Shook Me, Bring It On Home, I Can't Quit You Baby).  Hardly \\"complete\\", but a lot.    All piano/vocal books of rock bands are essentially what are known as \\"fake books\\": they show the vocal melody, the chord progressions, and most of the music transcribed for piano, with the bass staff usually following what the bass guitar is doing, and the treble staff usually following what the guitar is doing.  Little fills and solos are invariably left out.  So for what it is -- a general transcription book -- the book does its job.    I would NOT recommend this book if you're a guitarist or bass player looking for transcribed parts.  Again, this is essentally a fake book for piano.  I'm sure there are other Led Zeppelin books better suited to your needs.  Not to say that the book is _useless_ to guitarists.  Under the chord names of each song are those handy guitar chord diagrams (the ones that look like a little grid, with dots for the figer positions).  And on songs where Jimmy Page used alternate tunings, these exact tunings are described, with the chord diagrams redrawn appropriately.      The book has other information, but it's laid out for only certain tracks and in strange ways.  There are some notes from band members on how they play certain parts.  But this is only for a song or two.  The entire lead guitar part to \\"Since I've Been Loving You\\" is transcribed, but in a strange version of tablature (written as a series of fractions, where the top number is the fret and the bottom number indicates which string -- very weird!)  The Houses of the Holy album is mistitled \\"Led Zeppelin V\\".  The songs are grouped by album, but the order within each group doesn't match the order as heard on the album nor even alphabetical order.  Fortunately there's the table of contents.    I'm a bass player, and the book has been somewhat helpful to me for reference over the years.  I also first learned how to play barre chords on a 6-string guitar by looking at the diagrams in this book.  Besides currently playing bass in a band that does some Zep covers, I also sing back-up vocals and additionally picked up the mandolin.  So I dug up this book from my shelves, and just seeing layout of the chord changes and their transcriptions, along with the lyrics, was exactly what I needed.	2003-08-22
US	51845691	R1D59R7DDOQLKQ	0465037712	688146771	Where Mathematics Come From: How The Embodied Mind Brings Mathematics Into Being	Books	4	80	86	N	N	Traces back all math to simplest observations. Long read.	Whenever a person finds out that I'm a math enthusiast, 9 times out of 10 I get an uncomfortable reaction along the lines of \\"Oh, I HATE math!\\"  In my experience, the mathphobe's biggest gripe is that math is a completely abstract concept, all based on memorization of some strange language, with so much of it having absolutely no comparison to the physical world.<br />This book strives to show that mathematics, from basic arithmetic to more advanced branches, can in fact all be reduced down to mental metaphors of physical concepts.  Early in the book, the authors present the sound scientific evidence that humans have an innate understanding of the concept of quantity, and some degree of manipluation with quantity.  This ultimately leads to an understanding of addition, and then subtraction.  Those concepts, combined with the understanding of how to group objects in like sets, leads to an understanding of multiplication (add like sets) and division (subtract like sets).  The book then introduces a few more fundamental ideas that the human brain can use to make analogies with (motion along a path, rotation, etc.), and recreates more common mathematical concepts in increasing complexity: geometry, trigonometry, logic, set theory, etc.  At the end the book the authors even successfullly tackles Euler's equation (e^i*pi = -1), a classic example of something in mathematics that doesn't make any logical sense at first glance.<br />The book is extremely thorough in the way it presents all this.  Most chapters start off by introducing a new cognative metaphor, then including a table showing the mathematical concepts to be presented and to which cognative metaphor each one relates.  For a book on mathematics, this is actually a rather long read.  It's thorough because it has to be, given the subject and the authors' claims.  But the book might seem to drag around the middle, with a lot of repitition in each chapter as the strategy in breaking down the mathematics is constantly applied.<br />Still, I found this to be an overall very interesting read.  I think the authors succeed in showing how all sorts of  math concepts break down to the simplest fundamentals, which in turn can be mentally assocated with concepts we can understand in the real world.	2002-11-09
US	51845691	R32C9TEKV0TJC4	0962328626	839685831	The Church of Satan: A History of the World's Most Notorious Religion	Books	5	59	60	N	Y	An excellent primer, and more.  A little bit of everything.	Most Satanists, when asked for information about their religion, immediately suggest The Satanic Bible as a place to start reading.  While this does contain the core beliefs and ritualistic practices, I think that Blanche Barton's &quot;Church of Satan&quot; makes a much better introductory book on the subject.  <br />The great thing about this book is that it has a little bit of everything.  This includes some biographical information on Church of Satan founder Anton LaVey, historical information of the Church, comments regarding the many later rival organizations that have come and gone, common questions (and popular misinformation) answered by LaVey, conducting rituals, gottoes, the 9 Satanic Sins, the 11 Satanic Rules of the Earth, and more.  The appendix shows a hilarious sample of letters they've received over the years, plus lists of CoS-suggested books and movies (I've even created a website for that last category).<br />Despite being a CoS member, I didn't buy this book until last year.  I had already read some of the material, such as the 9 Sins and biographical information, on the web.  I assumed that the book wouldn't really tell me anything I didn't already know.  However, I still found some parts of the book very insightful.  I certainly gained some ideas after reading the chapters on the Grotto system and greater magic (ritualistic release).  So in addition to being a great book explaining Satanism, I'd still suggest it to those who already are practicing Satanists.  Barton packed a lot into this little volume.  I give it 5 stars (and no, I honestly don't give that rating to each and every official CoS book).	2001-08-22
US	51845691	R6YAV4ILSQ2PS	1575601540	756729890	Primus Anthology - A thru N: for Guitar and Bass (Play It Like It Is Guitar & Bass)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Great!  Now why didn't they do this about 10 years ago?	Cherry Lane has now released transcriptions of the &quot;Progressive Freak-Out Music&quot; band Primus, divided alphabetically by song title into two volumes.  (For those who didn't know, Cherry Lane published many other transcription books and instructional videos during the late 80's shred-guitar era.)  Each song transcription includes the guitar lines and bass parts in both standard notation and tablature, as well as the lyrics and vocal melody.  A time line of the band's history is included each book.  Everything, note-for-note, is taken straight from the original albums.  Though being a bass player, I mainly bought these books for the bass parts.<br />I was very, very pleased to see them feature many songs from the first two albums.  Songs like &quot;John The Fisherman&quot;, &quot;Jerry Was A Race Car Driver&quot;, and &quot;Tommy The Cat&quot; were the ones that introduced me to Primus, and really intrigued me to sit down and learn how to play Claypool's parts.  Though maybe some of the newer fans will be disappointed that the books do not include the South Park theme, or songs from the last couple of albums.  Nevertheless, the thumb-slapping technique became extremely popular again for bassists around the early 90s, and Les Claypool (along with Flea, Robert Trujilio, etc.) had a lot to do with that.  This brings me to the title of this review: why the heck they didn't print a Primus bass transcription book back then, when such a thing would be in its highest demand?<br />Les also used a variety of basses, including a 4-string with a whammy bar, 6-string basses, uprights, and fretlesses.  He also used a variety of techniques other than slapping, such as left and right hand tapping, strumming, and three finger picking.  But all the transcriptions seemed to have been faithfully done.  (Though I did find tablature to be an odd inclusion for songs like Mr. Krinkle, which features a bowed upright bass!  Where is this &quot;third fret&quot; he's supposedly hitting?)  The only other thing I find odd is the lack of drum transcriptions.  I like Larry Lalonde's guitar style, but let's face it: Primus is mostly known amongst musicians as a &quot;bassist's and drummer's&quot; band.  Though maybe drummers aren't that big into transcriptions; I don't know.<br />I buy transcription books very rarely, but this is one that I've really been waiting for.  That's probably what pushes me to give it 5 stars instead of 4.  Sitting down with these books and my bass has been fun, a bit nostalgic, and challenging.	2001-08-21
US	51845691	R2WDSE3TEGCCE4	0898981514	18389877	Scales & Modes in the Beginning: Created Especially for Guitarists	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Odd layout, lots of typos, but it does have everything.	There are countless numbers of scale books out there, and some are much more informative than others.  For example, a scale book might boast &quot;Learn 36 scales&quot; on the front cover, but when you open it, it's just the same major, minor or pentatonic scale pattern transcribed to each of the 12 keys!  That's really only THREE scales, not 36.  Ron Middlebrook's book, however, does in fact show you the patterns for many, many different scales.  Additionally, it has sections on arpeggios and studying the fretboard.  The book was written for guitar players, but as a bass player I still found it very informative.  Three features I especially love, and which seem to set this book apart from the rest, are 1) the list of 12-bar blues progressions, listed in increasing complexity.  These are excellent for improvised jamming, soloing, creating walking bass lines, or just coming up with better progression ideas  2) A handy table showing every type of chord, the chord's symbol, how it's constructed, and which scales &quot;fit&quot;  3) a listing of &quot;Foreign and Exotic Scales&quot; from all different cultures.  I am not giving it a full 5 stars because some of the layout is just plain strange.  There are a number of typos, fragmented sentences, randomly placed advice quotes, and poorly worded descriptions.  I find it ridiculous that these were never corrected after so many editions.  Never the less, scales are such a fundamental part of music theory and learning how to jam along with others.  I'm a total scale enthusiast, and this is the most complete book of its kind that I've ever found.	2001-07-05
US	51845691	R1W3AIT1XEM0I2	1562220241	675558498	Deluxe Jazz & Rock Bass Method	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Hands down, the most COMPLETE bass book I've ever seen.	I've read and owned lots of bass guitar books, but this is the one book that seems to cover everything.  Starting with the most basic introductory material such as &quot;how to hold the bass guitar&quot;, the book advances all the way down to things like &quot;Lydian Augmented scales in the 12th position&quot;.  Besides the expected subjects (scales, modes, progressions, intervals, key signatures, etc.) there are even lessons on bass duets and general subjects like relative pitch training for your ears.  The book indirectly teaches better sheet music reading by cleverly making each successive exercise more rhythmically complex as the book goes on.  Of course, when you cram so much information into a single book, the material inevitably moves a bit fast (otherwise, you'd have to write the book twice as long).  So my only complaint is that it's not very user-friendly as a beginner's total self-instruction book.  And I know there are many who don't particulary like the typical Mel Bay methods of instruction.  Still, the book is perfect if you have an instructor helping you along, or you're a moderate or advanced player who just wants to review certain sections and maybe pick up something new.  I've been playing bass for over a dozen years, but I still like to occasionally review sections and play some of the exercises for practice.  Despite its fast pace, the incredible span of information in this single book makes me give it 5 stars.  If you had to buy just one bass book to last your whole lifetime, I recommend this one without a doubt.	2001-07-05
US	51845691	RJXNHJ78Y9ANR	0380793741	576703391	For the Record 2: Black Sabbath	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The most legitamite Black Sabbath history book	Most band biographies are inaccurate and poorly done.  This is usually because an author will quote somebody, then insert some of his own thoughts, and continue with another quote, giving the illusion that the band shares all the author's ideas.  But &quot;Black Sabbath : An Oral History (For the Record)&quot; consists of all direct quotes, ordered by subject chonologically.  Maybe not everybody is going to like this style, but after hearing SO many crazy Black Sabbath rumors over the years (like why was Ozzy fired, why did Glenn Hughes drop out of the 7th Star tour, what's this song about, why didn't the such-and-such reunion work out) I'm glad to finally hear the real deal, right from the horse's mouth.  Also, Mike Stark (who conducted the interviews) writes an excellent introduction about the music of Black Sabbath.  His praisingly creative descriptions of Ozzy Osbourne (&quot;the banshee&quot;) and Ronnie James Dio (&quot;The Sorcerer&quot;) were so dead-on!<br />There are many quotes from Bill Ward, which I was very pleased to see.  With all the personal conflicts or collaborations that have gone on between Tony, Ozzy, Geezer, and Ronnie, I always wanted to hear what Bill's point of view was in all of this.  It was also very refreshing to hear Ozzy and Ronnie complement each other.<br />The book covers the entire Black Sabbath history, from their beginnings on the streets of Birmingham, through all their 25 years worth of albums and line-ups, and finally to the Ozzfest reunions in 1997.  I own the first edition, and the only glaring typo I noticed was &quot;Ray Gillen&quot; being replaced by &quot;Ian Gillan&quot; everywhere.  I mentioned it to Mike, and he knew about it, was frustrated about it, but told me that he was hoping to get it fixed in the next edition.<br />Anyway, if you're a Black Sabbath fan, here's where to get the truth of those crazy stories once and for all.  And some excellent anecdotes that I've never heard in any other interviews too.	2001-03-09
US	51845691	R1URWSG7VAJG5A	0918321999	828853165	Music Theory Made Easy New Edition (Reference)	Books	5	73	73	N	N	Title says it all. And don't let the low price fool you.	I firmly believe that a knowledge of music theory is an indispensable tool for any musician, regardless of what instrument or style they play.  Sadly, I see lots of guitarists who don't learn anything beyond downloaded tablature, and even some orchestra musicians who only know how to play what's written in front of them.  But in music, just like any other field, it's easy to learn new things and communicate with others once you know the language.  Which brings me to this book...<br />This book is really cheap, skinny enough to fit in a guitar case, good for any instrument, has some funny illustrations, and (best of all) is written very clearly without going against convention.  The author starts with some information on the science of sound, a brief history of music development, then looks at notes, scales, chords, progressions, applications to various music styles, and in the end some helpful suggestions on writing songs and jamming with other people.  Granted, it's not the complete guide to music theory, and he does get some of the history of Pythagoreas wrong.  But it's the perfect introductory book for the many musicians who haven't learned much, if any, music theory (and don't worry -- you don't need to know how to read sheet music to understand this book).  If you want to learn the basics of music theory in an inexpensive, straight foward, yet fun way, then buy this book.	2001-03-08
US	51845691	RYMOU8SF459RG	093317473X	37564420	More Joy of Mathematics: Exploring Mathematics All Around You	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Countless, clear examples of the math world around you	Many have sadly been led to believe that math is a cold, lifeless subject limited only to homework assignments and balancing your checkbook.  Nothing could be further from the truth, and Pappas books show this.  Her &quot;More Joy of Mathematics&quot; shows a vast amount of instances of where math shows up, some math history, and a few visual brain teasers.  How are exponents involved in the forging that creates a powerful Samuri sword?  How do the properties of an elipse make your car's headlights switch to high-beam?  What math can be found in an ocean wave, the strength of a honeycomb pattern, or a nautilus shell?  How is math vital to the contruction of musical instruments?  Is zero really a &quot;number&quot;, and where does the concept come from?  What are some currently unsolved problems in mathematics?  A total layman could understand most of the book, but to understand all the mini essays you might at least want to have knowledge of math at the high school level.<br />The book is a fast read, and fun to flip back and forth through, because each example is summarized in its own 1 or 2 page section, with illustrations.  The same goes for &quot;Joy of Mathematics&quot; so you don't necessarily have to read that one first; they just contain different sets of examples.  And don't think that all the good ideas were already taken for the first book -- &quot;More Joy of Mathematics&quot; is just as exciting to read.  Plus it has a single index listing the topics from both this book and the previous one, so if you buy both it's easy to find the article you want by only looking it up once.  Perfect gift for a math enthusiast at any level, and it may even covert a few &quot;mathphobes&quot;.	2000-12-19
US	51845691	RFAKA6LNZD1B4	0805001131	884732043	The Rails I Tote: Forty-Five Illustrated Spoonerisms to Decipher (Owl Books)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Not as classic as &quot;Maze&quot;, but still fun.	Christopher Manson is the author and illustrator of the book &quot;Maze&quot;, which is subtitled as &quot;Solve the World's Most Challenging Puzzle&quot; (and it deserves that title, in my opinion).  &quot;The Rails I Tote&quot; is not another &quot;Maze&quot;, and that's why I can't give it the same 5-star rating.  Still, it's another unique book with Mansons' similar avant-garde feel.  <br />There are 45 sections, each containing one page-long short story, accompanied by an illustration.  In each illustration, you have to find the spoonerism.  For those who don't know, you &quot;spoonerize&quot; two words by swapping their first letters or first consonnant sounds (so for example, the spoonerism of &quot;peas and carrots&quot; sounds like &quot;keys and parrots&quot;).  The title of each short story and the story itself lend clues as to what the spoonerism is.  For example, there's one picture showing a scientist tying little tags to the bodies of a bunch of bees.  The title of the related story is &quot;In Hot Water&quot;.  So &quot;bee tags&quot; becomes &quot;tea bags&quot;, and that's the solution. <br />But like &quot;Maze&quot;, these puzzles aren't all as easy as they sound.  I don't give up easily when it comes to brain teasers, but some of these ones really stumped me.  Fortunately the book's last page shows all 45 of the answers.  The answers are encoded by letter where 1 is for A, 2 is for B, 3 is for C, etc., so that you don't accidentally glance at an answer you didn't want to know yet.  I hope this book goes back into print, because it's another example of Manson combining his brainteasers, wild art work, and bizarre stories into one clever little book.	2000-12-19
US	51845691	R3N2AG3ZKIEYC4	0062512668	432644343	The Cube: Keep the Secret	Books	5	44	46	N	N	Simple, excellent mind journey for your own self-discovery	You know those movies that you can't really describe to a friend without giving the whole story away?  Well this book is sort of like that.  But here's my attempt at a &quot;no spoiler&quot; review.<br />The Cube is a little visualization/meditation &quot;game&quot; that you can play by yourself or with any other number of people.  It only takes a minute or two to play, and once you learn it you can play it with others without referring to the book.  The book has quite a few pages, but that's mostly because it's written rather poetically, with only a paragraph or so on each page.  It's divided into 5 main sections: an introduction, the &quot;game&quot; (this part is widely spaced over about 15 pages), reflections on the game (this makes up the bulk of the book, and helps you interpret your results of the game), some interviews from a wide range of celebrities who played the game, and an appendix that can optionally help you along in your discovery.<br />I suggest giving yourself at least a half hour alone to play the game and start reading the main section.  When you're done, sit down with your close friends, s.o., or family and play it.  You're guarenteed to learn something about each other.  Despite the fact that &quot;you can only play it once&quot;, I still think the book is worth buying, and I flip through it on occasion.	2000-12-19
US	51845691	R3DH95UXJJABDN	1587170663	712733644	The Dot and the Line: A Romance in Lower Mathematics	Books	5	52	54	N	N	&quot;To the VECTOR belong the spoils&quot;	When I was a boy, I remember seeing an animated cartoon version of this book.  I think they occasionally stuck it on after &quot;Tom &amp; Jerry&quot; or &quot;The Pink Panther&quot;.  A few years ago, I found the book itself in the stores, so I bought it.  If you are (like me) a math lover, you'll get the couple of math puns and jabs they use (such as the concluding &quot;moral of the story&quot; that I used for the title of this review, and the book's dedication).  But you certainly don't need to be a math enthusiast to enjoy the book.  You also don't have to be a little kid; in fact they use several &quot;big words&quot; that might need clarification from us &quot;grown-ups&quot;.<br />You've heard the story before: Quiet, boring ol' Dick is crazy over the beautiful, bubbly Jane.  But Jane is going out with Otto (the tough, joke-cracking &quot;party animal&quot; guy).  Dick persists, and eventually finds out what it will take to win Jane's heart while maintaining his dignity.  Jane dumps obnoxious Otto, wondering what she ever saw in him, and hooks up with Dick.  I suppose it's a classic romance archtype (maybe there's a thin line between &quot;archtype&quot; and &quot;cliche&quot;, but I digress).<br />Anyway, Juster beautifully tells this story by casting the three personalities as a simple straight line, a colorful dot, and a loud scribble.  Each page has fun artwork to illustrate the story, ranging from geometrically simple to geometrically complex.  <br />It's not a life-changing story, but I find &quot;The Dot and the Line&quot; to be an aesthetically pleasing, short n' sweet book.  I'm glad to see it being reprinted.	2000-10-06
US	51845691	R33MVN675UR6RJ	0944087035	606366716	The Necromantic Ritual Book	Books	3	23	27	N	N	Excellent &quot;death&quot; meditations/rituals, despite tricky font.	In this book, the author talks a little bit about the &quot;Angel of  Death&quot;, how he is sometimes manifested as &quot;death energy&quot;,  and includes 5 or 6 solitary rituals for tuning into and understanding this  energy.  Well, that's at least metaphysically speaking, and I take the talk  about &quot;Azrael&quot; with a grain of salt.  <br />Psychologically  speaking, I think this book is really about personifying death, and then  carefully utilizing that personification to better comprehend and accept  death.  The meditations/rituals increase in complexity and  &quot;effectiveness&quot;, but no real special tools are required for the  simpler meditations (usually stuff like some candles and jasmine incense or  oil, and a place to perform).<br />As with any sort of ritual in the occult  scene, one should be careful of what they're doing so as to avoid  unfavorable results.  I don't mean invisible spirits/demons (as some  believe), but psychological side-affects.  IMO, you should just always be  careful of knowing your expectations and goals of a ceremony, and not to  get too obsessed with it.  But like driving a car, the benefits far  outweigh the risks once you know what you're doing.<br />Anyway, the book is  also very visually appealing, with its ingrained silvery writing on the  outside black covers, deep violet on the inside of the covers, and  &quot;gothy&quot; lettering.  However, the tiny writing in the  gothic-looking font does make a little difficult to physically read.  When  I bought the book, the cashier and I were trying hard to read the listed  price on the back!  I admire the effort for aesthetic appeal, but not at  the complete expense of practicality.  (This moves my vote from 4 stars to  3)<br />Still, I think it's a unique book of intriguing practices, whatever  your religion.  We all know that we're going to die someday, and we've all  feared death at one time or another, so I think that one could get a lot  out of this little book.	2000-09-15
US	51845691	R29WKE8Y9E20W6	0937958344	923691836	Wicca: Satan's Little White Lie	Books	1	77	111	N	N	Propaganda garbage (all non-Christians are Satanists?)	I'm an ex-Wiccan, and while I strongly disagree with some ofWicca's tenets now, I'm not ignorant enough to call Wicca &quot;devilworship&quot;.  Yet this is what the author does.<br />The author calls Wiccans &quot;satanists&quot;, but he calls ALL people outside his denomination &quot;satanists&quot;.  Here is a direct quote: &quot;Put simply, if you aren't a believer in Jesus Christ as Almighty God come in the flesh to save you from your sins, you ARE a satanist!&quot; So the author is saying that this applies to Catholics, Jews, Buddhists, Hindus, and Mulims among others (he even explicitly mentions names like &quot;Krishna&quot;).  But the quote that takes the cake is probably: &quot;Even if you are a purported atheist, you are still worshipping Satan&quot;.  I think the ignorance of this analysis speaks for itself.<br />I guess the only people who would like this book are paranoid Bible-thumpers who already agree with the above, and want to read more books to reinforce this bigotted idea.  What anybody could learn from this, I haven't the slightest idea...	2000-04-22
US	51845691	R30UXDQVM8SWZA	0789201364	526096383	The Devil's Mischief : In Which His Own Story Is Told in Words and Pictures	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderfully Diabolical Artsy Book...also a great gift	A book about that archtype from the Judeao-Christian theology, &quot;the devil&quot;.  Whatever your religious views, Satan has no doubt been an intriguing character in much art and literature, and this book is a  creative work all about him.  The book itself is rather high-quality, with  a velvet-like covering.  Throughout are tons of random pictures of Ol'  Scratch, some very old, some very recent, and from many different  countries.  Most are paintings, but there are also lithographs,  photographs, etc.  <br />The text placed here and there in the book includes  poetry, quotes from famous works like Dante's &quot;Inferno&quot; and Mark  Twain's &quot;The Mysterious Stranger&quot;, as well as original lines as  if written by the devil in the first person.  These excerpts and art work  that make up the entire book are again randomly placed, but the intent was  obviously to make an interesting book in an artistic, poetic, and fantasy  sort of way.  And in my opinion, they more than succeeded.  Makes a great  gift.	2000-04-15
US	51845691	R1JINMHVAMCPLS	0931759013	677292015	Bass Guitar Chords	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Should be called &quot;Arpeggio Chart&quot;	By &quot;chords&quot; they don't mean &quot;double stops&quot; (i.e., playing two or more notes simultaneously). They mean the notes which make up the standard chords. The chart has all of the 12 notes, and the most common chords for each one (major, minor, dom 7th, etc.) Next to each of these is just a picture of a fretboard section with dots over the notes that make up that chord, and that's it! I think charts made like this are redundant. I mean, if you know how to play a G7arpeggio, all you have to do is shift all the fingering up two frets to get the A7 arpeggio. You don't need to copy the same picture 12 times, with an indication of which fret the root is on in each picture! The only way I could see a chart like this helping with playing chords, is that it lets you see which notes are in each arpeggio, and you can pick and choose which notes from there to include when you play your chord.<br />On the back cover is some miscellaneous outlined music theory, but there are one or two mistakes. Plus I don't agree with some lines like &quot;The Dorian scale is one of the most popular scales of rock.&quot;<br />If you really want to help your playing, I would suggest learning some shiftable positions for arpeggios, and using them to make your OWN chart.	2000-04-13
US	51845691	R32F3X4JV4XI29	0879302747	628400955	Bass Heroes	Books	4	9	9	N	N	30 of the greatest bass names, all in one book	A collection of 30 separate articles, each about a big name in the bass world.  The names span lots of styles too.  And whatever your style, I think the whole book is worth reading, because I even picked up some good  ideas from players or genres that I wasn't particularly into.  Some of the  articles focused more on the artists's equipment, for some it was their  band history, others it was more focused on their style.  This is actually  why I didn't give it a full 5 stars.  The Chris Squire article, for  example, is just him explaining what equipment he uses, and as much as I'm  interested in what other players are using to get their sounds, I would  also like to have gotten a few playing tips from Squire.  Still, it's a  great &quot;encylopedia&quot; of sorts for any bass player, and I believe  that any player who reads the articles will learn something helpful.	2000-04-13
US	51845691	R2BN7SBJKEYZJ1	0825623324	136157747	Beginning Bass Guitar (Compact Reference Library)	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Nice book. Don't let the price fool you.	This book (which is made skinny so that it fits in a guitar case) is the one I started on.  I am a strong advocate of taking 1-on-1 lessons for an instrument, but I would also additionally recommend buying a book or two on  the side for reference and to aid practice.  This book covers a little bit  of everything: technique and posture, root and fifth, notation and  tablature, triads, scales, hooks, slapping, pick playing, playing different  styles, etc.  The text is also very well written.  Also includes helpful  diagrams, and pictures here and there of bass players famous for their  individual performance or who they played for.  And the fact that it's  still in print after all these years ought to tell you something.<br />My only  complaint was that the book _looks_ dated.  While examples are given in the  back for &quot;jazz&quot;, &quot;rock&quot; and &quot;country&quot;, you  also find things like &quot;New Wave&quot;.  I would think that this would  turn off a lot of young players today, who might be wondering why all the  pictures were taken in the 80s, what &quot;New Wave&quot; is, and why  there's no section for &quot;alternative&quot;.  But STILL, the variety of  topics introduced in this book makes it an excellent tool for beginners,  and at half of the price of most other instructional books.	2000-04-13
US	51845691	R14L2N9XWCHGCU	0840730349	636156236	Satanism: The Seduction of America's Youth	Books	1	28	40	N	N	Pure propaganda B.S. over events that never happened	In the 1600s it was the Puritans looking for witches in town hall, in the 1950s it was McCarthy looking for communists under the bed, and in the 1980s it was Bob Larson looking for imaginary Satanic Cults, well,  everywhere.  Let me put it this way:  Larson lists a page of  &quot;Satanic&quot; symbols in his book, which include (among others), the  Egyptian ankh, logos of rock bands, and the peace symbol.  You can imagine  what the other 200+ pages and the rest of his books are like.  His mind is  obessed with this &quot;Satan&quot; character, so naturally he sees it  everywhere, and he wants to share his paranoia with the rest of the world.   Please don't buy this book, even for laughs, because this liar doesn't  deserve a cent.  If you're looking for an actual researched book on the  myths and facts of the Satanic Panic, try the book by Robert D. Hicks.	2000-03-01
US	51845691	RXPADG7JJGC0N	0872203433	900533588	Does God Exist?: A Dialogue	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Unbiased and cutting through the old arguments	This little book is in the form of a &quot;transcribed&quot; dialogue between three friends.  It starts off with the trio playing a game of pool, where one person is up at the table and says to himself &quot;Please God,  just let me get this shot.&quot;  Although this man _does_ believe in God,  he says his words were &quot;just an expression&quot;.  Still, one comment  leads to another, and eventually lauches the &quot;God&quot; debate between  himself, his atheist friend, and a third friend who doesn't end up  revealing where exactly she stands on the issue (but seems to be the most  intelligent of the 3).<br />Now there have been lots of specific arguments  (some pro, some con) over the years regarding the existance of God.  Some  are historical and some are still commonly used by most atheists and  theists.  What this book does is go through these old arguments (and old  counter-arguments) and show their flaws, challenging them well.  Whether  &quot;God&quot; is defined as the creator of the universe, or the  controller of all human's fate, or a performer of miracles, an omnipotent  being...these points and more are addressed.  <br />Then it offers some  refreshingly different thoughts on this classic question, and not  necessarily all in the form of more pro/con arguments.<br />Again, this book  is not biased to atheism nor theism (nor even agnosticism).  I see both  atheists and theists who usually fall back on the same trite arguments to  justify their beliefs.  This book gets you to THINK, no matter where you  stand, and might even strengthen those beliefs you already have.  And all  in a rather slim book.	1999-09-16
US	51845691	R1EPACJUM7896D	0922915660	663793688	Satan Speaks!	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Eh [shrug] O.K.	While I loved LaVey's past works, this book didn't  appeal to me nearly as much.  Don't get me wrong- I found some of the essays to be really thought-provoking with great points.  And there was a good dose of humor  too.  But then the other half of the essays had me going &quot;Huh?  What  the hell is he talking about?&quot;  or &quot;You know, I have my  occasional disagreements with this guy, but in this essay I really, REALLY  can't agree with him at all.&quot;  I found &quot;The Devil's  Notebook&quot; to be a MUCH more insightful collection of essays.  <br />Oh  well.  It's kind of like those released rarities and B-sides from favorite  bands: some of them you hear and realize WHY the band didn't want to  release them, and some of them are gems.  But then most fans of the band  are glad we at least _have_ the option of hearing them, and that the only  recordings are not just rotting in a vault somewhere.  <br />So if you're a  completist when it comes to your favorite authors, and/or you want to read  a lot about LaVey's pet peeves and fetishes, I say definitely buy it.  If  otherwise, you might not find it _too_ enjoyable.  (But judging from these  past reviews, it seems like there are lots who _do_ like the whole style of  it.  I still personally rate it, in comparison to his other works, as  &quot;so-so&quot;)	1999-07-09
US	51845691	R1ZP9958NOLFXI	0380013924	24612273	The Satanic Rituals: Companion to The Satanic Bible	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Great book...for Satanists, that is.	This book is a collection of 8 or 9 \\"dark\\" rituals either created by LaVey's Church of Satan or taken and adapted from different cultures.  There are also some interesting introductions and closing remarks on these cultures and the practice of ceremonial-like magic in general.  And that's basically it.  It gets 5 stars for being what it says it is: a COMPANION to the Satanic Bible.  But as a stand-alone book I know it's not going to appeal to many.<br />This ISN'T a book for those who immediately want to read and learn about Satanism.  That would be like trying to learn about Beethoven by looking at the sheet music for his 9th Symphony!  Besides, those who believe everything on TV will be sorely disappointed that these rituals don't involve sacrificing animals, drinking blood, and all that other stuff you see in the B-movies.<br />This IS however a book for those who have already read The Satanic Bible, and are interested in aspects and further examples of GROUP ritual.  LaVey also expands a bit on the subject of ritual magic, whether group or solitary, as discussed in The Satanic Bible.  Other occultists might like the book, if anything just to read another man's view of ritual chamber practices, and to see some more examples of ceremonies taken from different cultures.  I've seen plenty of impractical and uninformative occult books on the shelves that cost two to four times as much.  Being someone who actively performs group rituals, this book was definitely was well worth my $6.	1999-07-08
US	51845691	R3LP116YH4AIPZ	0922915008	485337376	Satanic Witch	Books	5	177	190	N	Y	You can't always judge a book by its cover. People, however...	When it comes to the works of Anton LaVey, many book \\"reviews\\" seem to be done by people who didn't bother to read the book beyond the front cover, and/or just want to regurgitate some rant that has nothing to do with the book contents (e.g. bashing the author himself, defending Wicca and claiming ownership of the word \\"witch\\", babbling a Jack Chick-style Jesus rant, etc.).  So instead, here's a review about the book, from somebody who's actually read the book.  For the moment, let's forget the book's title, the inverted pentagram on the front cover, and the Halloween coloring used in earlier editions, and get right to the question: what's the CONTENT of this book all about?  If you're searching for literature on spell-casting, devil worship, cults, the supernatural, soul selling, or even descriptions of Satanism itself, then this isn't the book you're looking for.    What you will find however is researched (the bibliography is HUGE), refined, applicable techniques on the manipulation of people.  In \\"The Satanic Bible\\", LaVey calls this art of manipulation \\"lesser magic\\"; this book is an expansion on that topic.  There's nothing inherently \\"magick\\" or \\"supernatural\\" about it.  One could say that a lot of it just comes down to psychology.  But in my experience, it works!  I found the contents invaluable in not only things like job interviews, but my own lucrative moonlighting career doing readings as a self-proclaimed psychic.  The book ultimately teaches how to read people, and how to use that information to your own advantage.  LaVey mentions that self-proclaimed psychics don't actually have supernatural powers but rather do great people-reading whether they're consciously aware of it or not.  This comes through picking up cues on body posture, clothing, speech, etc., and using that to make rather accurate guesses as to what their life is like.  And this was published years before James Randi was debunking people like Uri Geller on TV.  But while LaVey doesn't take the mystical approach, he doesn't dismiss it all as useless either.    As the title suggests, this is book was mostly written for women.  The main focus is on how a woman can use the fact she's a woman to her advantage.  And no, that doesn't always mean being sexually seductive.  Though I've seen to many would-be warlocks who mistakenly dismiss this book as being strictly only for women.  Being a man myself, I still find a lot of ways to apply the book techniques, especially the Synthesizer Clock.    In fact, being a man, this book practically scared me when I realized just how much power a woman CAN secretly wield.  In a way, I'm glad the book has a title blasphemous enough to turn-off the average person, because if every woman used this book, they'd completely rule the world overnight (assuming they truly don't rule it already).  But again, despite being for female-applicable, men too can get something out of the book.	1999-07-08
