US	51844291	RSI2LACRVW4C	0756400864	732568675	Explorer (Foreigner 6) (Daw Books Collector, No. 1238)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Finishing the series with a flourish.	n this final volume of the current Foreigner trilogy, the Phoenix returns to the \\"scene of the crime\\" to tie up loose ends. A contingent of humans were left on a space station in a distant star system after their peregrine wanderings violated the territory of mysterious aliens who then apparently attacked the outpost. Why the aliens attacked is unclear. Even more unclear is why the captains of the Phoenix, including the deceased Rodriguez, left humans on the space station when they fled to the atevi world ten years earlier. The possibility that most worries the atevi and the Mosphiera humans is that the hostile aliens might attack the atevi home world after locating it from data on the station or captured humans. As the Phoenix nears the foreign star system, three overlapping but distinct agendas are clear: the atevi, the Mosphiera humans and the ship humans. The situation becomes even more complex when the Phoenix arrives to find that both the humans on the space station and the mysterious aliens have additional agendas. The autocratic Pilot's Guild is firmly in control of the station and clearly wants control of the Phoenix and later the atevi home world. The aliens lurk mysteriously. The question is who can negotiate the treacherous waters and avoid interstellar war? For fans of the series, Bren Cameron is the obvious answer. Peeling the complexity of the situation reveals layers of deception, including mischief by the late captain Rodriguez, that make a peaceful solution seem a near impossibility.<br />The good news for Foreigner fans is that after the dreary \\"Defender\\" novel, Cherryh returns to the strength of the series. Namely, the protagonist must get inside the minds of people about whom he knows virtually nothing. Success or death are the alternatives. The bad news is that the first three chapters are terribly tedious dialogue filling pages that lack any discernible action. Cherryh does shake the lethargy and finishes in fine fashion. Just plow through those first chapters and you'll find a worthwhile story.	2003-07-01
US	51844291	R2NVYQ4XP4FRZD	071483839X	447893093	Portraits	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	The arresting eyes of the Afghan girl and more	I first saw the picture of the mysterious (but now located) &quot;Afgan girl&quot; on a calender 20 years ago. I stopped, stared, walked past, returned and stared some more. I did not see the holes in her shawl or the dirt on her face until the second look. Only then did I realize that this was not the photograph of a model. The eyes are hypnotic.<br />Portraits is filled with other remarkable photos of people. Ordinary people from ordinary places. The color schemes and balance in the photographs are mesmerizing. As one pages through the book, the clear oneness of humankind shows through. Many of the photos of children defy description. McCurry says in the prologue that faces stare back at him from places he will never forget. The book's message to me is that there are people all over the world whom we should never forget.	2003-07-01
US	51844291	RLBX5A0WQLZCU	0812532279	174012911	The Winds of Altair	Books	2	3	5	N	Y	A disappointing book by an accomplished writer	A disappointing book by an accomplished writer.<BR>&quot;The Winds of Altair&quot; portrays a future where the Earth teems with 17 billion mainly poor inhabitants. Crime and vice are rife on a world running out of resources. After making the leap to local space travel, humans discover a mechanism for faster-than-light travel A search begins for planets in other star systems that can be terraformed to allow some of the Earth's masses to be transported elsewhere, thereby alleviating terrestrial crowding. An expedition to the 6th planet surrounding the star Altair sponsored by a strict doctrinaire church and sanctioned by the World Government begins the preliminaries to terraforming a world that is occupied by alien life forms. The church leaders of the expedition see no problem with exterminating the existing life forms that could not survive in an earth-like atmosphere. The problem is complicated by the discovery that one of the species there may be intelligent.<br />The writing style is surprisingly simplistic for someone like Bova. The prose and structure is more appropriate for a &quot;juvenile&quot; level work than an adult novel. The characters are not well developed and appear shallow. For instance, the protagonist is a member of the church that sponsored the mission. The church has no black members, although it preaches racial tolerance. On meeting an African female member of the scientific team, he is initially perturbed by her black skin and exotic appearance. Soon, he comes to feel that she is beautiful despite being black. She is kind and friendly to him, and he then comes to believe that he is in love with her. Nothing is wrong with this evolution of events. The problem is that the development is sophomoric. A more fundamental problem that strains credibility is the idea sending Earth's unwanted away to terraformed planets at enormous expense. A few thousand or a few million people transported to another planet will not help when the problem is billions of poor. A flawed plot combined with puerile writing makes for an uninspiring novel.	2003-05-25
US	51844291	R1WXCBA5VX1CTR	0471251356	970495058	The Knight: A Portrait of Europe's Warrior Elite	Books	3	2	4	N	N	An informative book about an important institution	&quot;The Knight&quot; traces the evolution of an institution that played a key role in the formation of Western culture. Knights evolved from the early mounted warriors of which Charlemagne's cavalry was the archetype. They were powerful factors in the internecine struggles between European kingdoms as well as in the great Crusades. The influence of knights as members of an aristocratic elite persisted into recent history. The fact that West Point training was an expected activity of aristocratic men in the antebellum US South speaks to the widespread influence of knighthood.<BR>Baker's accounts are imminently readable although they are not &quot;searing&quot;. One of the most arresting aspects of the book is the contemporary account of jousts and tournaments. The casual descriptions of encounters that often were blood curdling speak to a very different mindset regarding deadly games during medieval times. Baker covers the first crusade, which shows the merciless treatment of &quot;infidels&quot; by Christian warriors. Baker's discussion of the monk knights, the Templars and the Hospitallars, provides a marvelous opportunity to explore the evolution of the pacifist religion of St. Paul into the militant movement of Pope Urban II. Unfortunately, the book is too short to explore this fascinating twist in history that remains with us to the present. &quot;The Knight&quot; leans toward the style and organization of a traditional academic treatise rather than the more gripping &quot;popular histories&quot;. Despite these limitations, the book is a good overview for anyone wanting to learn something of the evolution of modern warriors.	2003-05-22
US	51844291	R3J89X13OJHE8A	0385495625	656343304	Warriors of God: Richard the Lionheart and Saladin in the Third Crusade	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A historical tour de force	&quot;The Warriors of God&quot; examines the Third Crusade of the late 12th century with a focus on the remarkable opposing leaders: the Sultan Saladin and Richard I of England (the Lionheart). The Crusades are a confusing epoch since they spanned several hundred years and included a shifting cast of characters with equally shifting motives. With the exception of the First Crusade that established the Frankish Kingdom in the Middle East, the Third Crusade was the event of singular importance whose ramifications ripple to the present. A strong Frankish Kingdom would have altered the balance of power in the Middle East in unforeseeable ways. For instance, the Ottoman Turks may not have been able to topple the Byzantine Empire had another powerful Christian kingdom existed nearby.<BR>Reston portrays the events surrounding the Crusade with remarkable clarity. Saladin (who was Kurdish) emerges as a skillful politician and military leader who unites a fragmented group of Islamic principalities into a formidable empire that wrenches Jerusalem and much of the territory won in the First Crusade from the Christians. Richard the Lionheart then bursts on the scene as the most formidable individual warrior and military leader that Saladin and his Moslem force face. Reston brings these events to life using narratives from both Christian and Islamic sources. A remarkable respect between Saladin and Richard evolves as the leaders communicate by emissaries that even include the Sultan's brother. Chivalry clearly exists despite the overall brutality of the conflict. Reston describes how Saladin's shaken emirs at one point suggest contracting with the dreaded Assassins to have Richard killed. Saladin vetoed the suggestion as being dishonorable, despite the fact that Richard had single-handedly driven the Crusaders to the hills overlooking Jerusalem and was poised to shatter Saladin's empire. Few historical treatises are as engaging as this fine book.	2003-05-22
US	51844291	R2V66WIIW8V4E1	1588514331	963532898	Timeshift (The Timeshift Trilogy, Part 1)	Books	1	4	8	N	Y	Interesting Idea; Terrible Execution	Timeshift is an attempt to use a different technique than the standard SF &quot;time travel&quot; to connect different points in time. Phillip Jackson's novel revolves around a future in which the people of Earth are imperiled. Learning about some previously secret events in the past is the only solution. The author creates a concept of &quot;beta&quot; photons that somehow remain in the vicinity of Earth (unlike normal photons). Using a specialized device, beta photons can be captured and used to produce an animated image from the past, like a hologram. This is fine. The problem is that the author lacks some basic knowlege in science which leads to shocking gaffs and makes reading the novel painful. Two examples. The protagonist wanders into the beta photon holograph room and is warned to leave quickly since shortly &quot;billions of gigabytes of power&quot; will be unleased. Billions of gigabytes sounds impressively large, but unfortunately is not a measure of power (that would be watts). When the holograph forms, the individuals are not only seen but also heard to speak. Sound is a function of pressure waves in the atmosphere and would not be captured by &quot;beta&quot; photons. The setup should produce a silent movie. There is nothing wrong with the author coming up with some explanation of sound with beta photon holographs. The problem is that he is apparently unaware of the scientific incongrueity and takes no effort to explain this paradox. The result is an amateurish novel that I am surprised any publisher accepted.	2003-05-20
US	51844291	R3CEKJLBDS6HFT	0441009425	824019804	Revelation Space	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	A tour de force	Revelation Space is one of the best SF novels recently written. A archeological dig on an extinct planet reveals pieces of a puzzle suggesting that humankind could be in danger of extermination by forces eons old. The driven, megalomanical leader of the expedition, Dan Sylvestre, is the fulcrum of novel. Reynolds includes two other parallel story lines which initially are a puzzle as they are out of time sequence with Sylvestre. However, he skillfully weaves these strands together into a coherent whole.<br />Some readers may be troubled by the initial shifts in story line. The first 60 pages or so can be confusing, but the author pulls the events and characters together like asteroids dropping into a gravity well. The pieces come together breathlessly and seamlessly. Each layer removed from the plot reveals another even greater mystery, like a Russia Easter egg. Trained in astrophysics, Reynolds has a superb command of the science as well as an outstanding command of the English language. If you liked  books such as Jack McDevitt's &quot;The Engines of God&quot; or Greg Bear's &quot;Eon&quot;, you will love &quot;Revelation Space&quot;.	2003-05-20
US	51844291	R1IOA2U0PN6E95	0061020060	777994859	Deepsix	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Disappointing Sequel to Engines of God	Deepsix is a rather pale reflection of &quot;Engines of God&quot; a book from about 10 years ago set in the same universe. This universe has very planets with sentient species. The one that currently co-exists with spacefaring humans is an early industrial species that has been mired by incessant wars, including an ongoing WWI style conflict. Engines of God was driven by the discovery of a recently extinct race where understanding the cause of destruction could provide information crucial  to saving Earth from similar disaster. The race to discover the secrets of the planet before it is terraformed for human use makes exciting reading. Deepsix carries over one of the protagonists, Pricilla Hutchins, but has none of the tension of the original. The team lead by &quot;Hutch&quot; is marooned on a planet newly found to have an extinct civilization. However, there is no more to the story than the desparate effort to save the six or seven people on the mission. None of the characters is well-developed so the gripping interest in whether they get off the planet or not is missing. Without a world to be saved or interesting characters to be saved, the book is left flat.	2002-10-20
US	51844291	RXHBJR8M537ER	0671578669	329662424	Cradle of Saturn	Books	1	11	19	N	N	Bizarre non-science Fiction	I bought this book in an airport bookstore between connecting flights. I had not read about the book but generally have liked Hogan's works since he is a good writer and has enough science to create some interesting fiction. The book was tremedously disappointing. The idea that Earth was one of Saturn's moons until as recently as the Jurassic Era and was then blown somehow to its present orbit just makes no sense. Even if you bought the argument that warmth radiated from Saturn was enough to get life started on satellite Earth as it orbited Saturn, what sustained life during what would have been tens if not hundred's of years of interplanetary drifting by the orphaned Earth until it settled into its present orbit? The idea that Jupiter somehow ejected what became Venus from its own mass in the past 10,000 years is equally preposterous. The energy to hurle the mass of Venus out of Jupiter's gravity well would be astronomical. Hogan's superficial  reference to Jupiter's known role as a protostar at during the formation of the solar system is really hoaky. Enjoyable SF requires some suspension of belief. This book requires suspension of intelligence.	2002-10-20
US	51844291	RE1P5B16KEEVL	140003065X	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	3	13	16	N	Y	An Unbalanced View of India	\\"A Fine Balance\\" is a tale of modern India presented through the intersection of lives of four sets of people who struggle to maintain their humanity in an inhuman society. The book opens with the arrival of a pair of tailors from a rural village to the flat of a woman who is looking to begin an illegeal in-home clothing production business to supply one of the large export companies in the unnamed city in India that is the backdrop to the story. They happen to arrive simultaneously with a college student who is looking for lodging during his first year in the city. The author skillfully steps back to fill in their backgrounds and creates a rich context in which the reader can  understand the factors that drive each and that produce the tension and conflict that characterize their first weeks and months together. The landlady/employer is a Parsi, a minority group of Persian background people in India who are Zoroastrians. The author beautifully captures the events and mischances that turn her bright future into a dismal present. He then weaves a gripping story of the tailors who are Hindu of outcast or Dalit backgound who seek escape from their cast-profession of animal tanning and leather work by becoming tailors. Finally, the story unfolds of the student who is from an affluent Parsi family that falls into difficulty due to the vagaries of political and social disruption that grew out of the Partion of 1947 that created India and Pakistan. Even though they were outside the primary Hindu-Muslim conflict, the student's family are swept up by the chaos and violence that ensued. Smaller vignettes bring to life characters who usually are chaff in most tales, such as a legless, fingerless street begger. Mr. Mistry uses the story to convey several messages about the fundamental inhumanity of Hindu society and the caste system which remains in place dispite legal abolition. The government is protrayed as a thoroughly corrupt entity with Indira Ghandi and the Cogress Partyas the major bandits in a society that ignores laws. Ordinary people who struggle to better themselves are helpless in a fundamentally corrupt society that sanctions terror, brutality/beastiality, and nepotism.<br />Having seen the India of which Mr. Mistry writes, I would best compare him to Charles Dickens. Where Dickens succeeds the effort to bring to light the miseries of the dispossesed, Mistry fails. Dickens skewered British society in a series of powerful novels. Mistry tries to do the same for India in one book. The result is that he has characters who figuratively are struck simultaneously by a truck and lightening as a cinder block falls eight stories from a construction site to squash their heads. All of the things that Mistry writes about did happen. To assert that they happened to the small number of people in one novel strains credibilty and leaving the reader exhausted. Despite all its shortcomings, India is a true democracy. It is not perfect, but most people on the planet who live under democratic rule live in India. The country is democratic despite poverty, crowding and disease that usually are fertile ground for authoritarian rule. The fact that Indira Ghandi's attempt to strip the country of democracy failed and her Congress Party has remained out of power for more than ten years is a very positive statement about India. This lack of balance mars an otherwise fine novel.	2002-07-18
US	51844291	RHMPV3ZKXUQBF	0380799154	920423724	Thunder Rift	Books	2	3	5	N	Y	Great start; dismal finish	\\"Thunder Rift\\" portrays a near future Earth in which a wormhole appears in Jupiter's vicinity. The rip in the fabric of spacetime rains energy onto Earth from throughout the EM spectrum disrupting almost all technology that depends on electronics. Taria Spears grows up during the difficult time of rebuilding and develops a fascination for Thunder, as it is called. As a young adult, she is on the first manned expedition (following probes and animal missions) through the mysterious rift. Their goal is to find the undoubtedly advanced civilization that created the phenomenon.<br />Thunder Rift has some strong points, but flaws ultimately overwhelm the book. On the positive side, humans are cautious as they probe the Rift. For instance, the primary explorer ship, Lightbringer, has small and armed escort ships as it moves through the wormhole and across light years of space. When the explorers encounter a planet with life, they minimize direct contact with the environment and conduct extensive decontamination and quarantine of anyone who visits the planet. They expose animals to the alien atmosphere before risking a human. At this point, the novel has the feeling of being carefully thought out and planned. The author shows a realistic approach to something unknown, presumably interesting and possibly dangerous.<br />The devil is in the details, however, and the novel subsequently falls apart. Two major flaws exemplify the problems. The author often alternates chapters between the protagonist's activities on the mission and her childhood. Some of these give us insight into the main character. Later \\"flips\\" disrupt the flow of the action in the future while adding nothing important about the main character.<br /> As annoying as this was, there were many points when the story just failed to make sense. An example is the alien planet that was initially deemed to lack intelligent life by sensor scans from orbiting probes. The planet is described as having very little metal and the probes detect no refined metal that characterizes an advanced civilization. Later in the novel, however, Taria has met the aliens who populate the planet and takes a ride on one of the aliens' ferryboats! With no facilities for refining metals, where did the steam-driven ferryboats come from? Further, why were advanced orbiting probes unable to detect even the heat signature from ferryboats (and presumably other industrial activity)? The novel becomes a fairy tale in the end, which is disappointing after the promising start. [My personal 5 star reference- Dune, Hyperion, Ender's Game]	2002-01-28
US	51844291	R39KK92ZHTTXZB	0812566629	212689501	Darwinia: A Novel of a Very Different Twentieth Century	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A remarkable tour de force	\\"Darwinia\\" establishes Robert Charles Wilson as one of the outstanding writers in contemporary SF. The Europe of 1912 is replaced by a strange, alien wilderness containing previously unknown forms of plants and animals and no sign of civilization. Religious fundamentalism bubbles to the forefront in the wake of the \\"Miracle\\" as most people believe that God sweep the old center of Western civilization out of existence because of its iniquity. Some people see inconsistencies in the theological explanation and seek alternate explanations based on science and logic. Guilford Law, the protagonist of the novel, is drawn into the latter camp and ultimately reaches a stunning explanation of the true nature of the \\"Miracle\\".<br />Wilson's technical writing skills are excellent. He draws a haunting picture of this strange world that was Europe. Wilson creates appealing characters with depth using a mature and well-crafted writing style. The characters behave rationally in this irrational world. Most importantly, Wilson thoroughly understands contemporary history and creates a series of events in the post-\\"Miracle\\" world that are both logical and reasonable. For instance, the obliteration of the British home islands leads Lord Kitchener to set up a rump government operating out of Ottawa that seeks to retain the claims of the British Empire. This is precisely what Kitchener, the hero of Khartoum and victor of the Boer War, would have done. A brief naval war erupts between the US and the British rump government that the Americans easily win. This fits with the deployment of the major forces of the Royal Navy in British home waters in 1912 to counter the growing threat of the German navy. With these forces gone, the American navy would have been easily superior.<br />As the story unfolds, Wilson's tale is not one of a peculiar 20th century Earth history. Darwinia is a story of the history of the universe. Wilson uses some very imaginative speculation in creating an original and daring story. Darwinia is far from the usual alternate history tales common to SF. [reader's reference- my personal five star novels: Dune, Hyperion, Ender's Game]daring story. Darwinia is far from the usual alternate history tales common to SF. [reader's reference- my personal five star novels: Dune, Hyperion, Ender's Game]	2002-01-23
US	51844291	R3CE2VTWK6FCLH	0451457854	265583115	Broken Time	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	A disjointed novel	Broken Time is a murder/horror mystery that is thoroughly grounded in the 20th century. However, the author chooses the 35th century and a human-colonized world about 1,000 light years from Earth as the setting for the story. This contradiction produces strange anachronisms that severely detract from the plot and make the book non-believable. <br />The novel centers around a young woman, Siggy, who encounters fragments of the universe in which the laws of time are suspended. A number of people become trapped in these &quot;time pockets&quot; and disappear from our universe. These people not only disappear, but their friends and family &quot;forget&quot; they ever existed. However, Siggy recalls a lost classmate and is determined to solve the mysery. Her mediocre high school grades consign her to janitorial work in a facility for people who are criminally and homocidally insane. One of the inmates is the key to the mystery.<br />A few of the strange anachronisms show why the book is disappointing: Siggy grew up watching 1950's television shows on what appeared to be a classic reruns TV station. She quotes lines from &quot;I Love Lucy&quot; and the like. This is as bizzare as having a run-of-the mill teen today who reads Beowulf in Old English and loves Homer in classical Greek. No one would understand today's TV in 1,500 years, even if they somehow understood coloquial English and entertainment involved something as crude as TV. After all, how many today people can understand Shakespeare without anotations to explain meanings in Elizabethan English?  Siggy also loves ballroom dancing and teaches this to everyone she encounters, including a member of an alien species. People 1,500 years in the future and 1,000 light years from Earth will likely know as much about ballroom dancing as we know about the mysterious game boards found in King Tut's tomb. At one point, Siggy presses the wrong key on her computer keypad and loses all her work. I almost expected the author tosay that the problem was a glitch in Windows 3500. SF requires both artistic license and suspension of belief in what we know as &quot;real&quot;. The degree of license that Ms. Thomas took just left me cold, however. [reader reference: my personal 5 star novels- Dune, Hyperion, Ender's Game]	2002-01-14
US	51844291	R2VH2941V9BSFC	0886779111	573749813	Defender (Foreigner 5)	Books	2	7	11	N	N	A stolid installment	Defender is by far the weakest book of the &quot;Foreigner&quot; series, and probably the weakest of the many books by Cherryh that I have read. In a complex relationship skillfully painted in four prior novels, Bren Cameron evolved from translator between humans and Atevi to confidante and advisor to the leader of the Atevi people. The key event that overarched the earlier novels was the return after a 200 year absence of the starship, Phoenix, which had dumped and stranded a group of humans on the Atevi home world. During that absence, Atevi and &quot;planet&quot; humans developed an uneasy but working relationship. The returning ship needs help, however, having encountered hostile aliens in another star system who destroyed one of its space stations. In Defender, we learn that humans were left at the station (contray to the initial claims by the captains of the Phoenix), and that the hostile aliens could use them to find the way to the Atevi home world. Prompted by this danger, the Atevi-human alliance moves to launch Phoenix quickly in an effort to rescue the people from that station and, with luck, leave no trail for the aliens.<br />The book moves at a glacial pace. Virtually nothing significant happens in the first 70 pages. Cherryh's writing is uncharacteristically turgid and the plot is flat. There are long passages describing a dinner meal, for instance. This type of information was interesting and informative in the early novels when the Atevi were being introduced and readers had to learn the nature of people very different from humans. By the fifth novel, the characters and their societies are well-developed, however. If the reader does not know why a table for two is anathema for Atevi, &quot;Defender&quot; will unfathomable. Cherry also drags into the novel Bren's difficult relationship with his family and human ex-lover. This is tiring and adds nothing to the plot. Having verbatim whole letters to and from various family members and others is very annoying. The real failing of the book is that nothing *really* important to the series happens. There is tremendous grist for plotting and intrigue (for instance, how did the Atevi leader and the senior captain of the Phoenix begin and then keep secret their plans for re-launching the Phoenix?) Cherryh uncharacteristically misses the ball.<br />I like many of Cherryh's readers greatly anticipated this sequel.  However the book had the feel of a &quot;rush job&quot; and was quite disappointing. Cherryh is quite prolific. Clumsy work by an artist usually skilled in English usage suggests that other exigencies may have come into play. I hope more care is paid to the crafting of the final novel in the series.	2001-12-23
US	51844291	R2N01CNW8TM4SU	031286860X	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	Ender's Shadow over Orson	Ender's Game casts a long shadow over all of the subsequent work by Orson Scott Card. The phenomenally successful short story turned novel was followed by the markedly different, but equally intriguing, Speaker for the  Dead. From there the series went down hill, and apparently ended in a  whimper with Children of the mind.<br /><br />Ender's Shadow is an attempt to  rekindle the fire. Card returns to the scene of Ender's Game, writing what  he terms to be a &quot;parallel&quot; novel, rather than a sequel. Ender's  Shadow is nonetheless a sequel, and not a very good one. A reader could not  understand the basic plot without having read Ender's Game, making it  de  facto a sequel. The novel focuses on &quot;Bean&quot;, a minor character in  the original book. As a character, Bean lacks the appealing qualities that  drew the reader to Ender. Card provides a biotechnical explanation for the  fact that Bean's intellect that overshadows even Ender's prodigious  ability. This removes the David versus Goliath effect that permeated the  original story as talented but young Ender struggled to meet expectations.  Struggled is the key concept. Everyone struggles in some fashion in their  life, meaning that anyone could identify with Ender, even though he  subsumed Mozart's creativity and Einstein's intellect. Bean's effortless  accomplishments are more reminiscent of machine than man. Card's use of  opening dialogue between Battle School commanders at the beginning of each  chapter is much less effective than that in Ender's Game. The most  difficult issue Card faced in writing this novel is the lack of the  surprise element that characterized Ender's Game. He pieced together a  story that was mediocre in the end. Card sets up the scenario for a sequel.  I hope that he will get back to the gritty elements of human existence and  struggle that made Ender's Game such a success.	2000-05-06
US	51844291	R2IV5CWWBQ39A0	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	2	14	39	N	N	Much ado about nothing	Willis fills the book with quotations from great English authors and references to crucial battles throughout history. In my opinion, the title of Shakespeare's play best characterizes all the hubbub. She has taken what  could be a nice 30 page satirical short story and stretched it out for  nearly 500 repetitive pages. The characters are silly and the plot is  preposterous. Chaos theory is interesting, but don't look to understand it  better by reading this book.	1999-11-23
US	51844291	RD43YJ2ZHQ9RU	067157809X	737106039	Earthweb	Books	2	1	10	N	Y	Not very belieable &quot;realistic&quot; web story	This novel revolves around recurrent, regular attacks on Earth by an advanced, mechanical civilization. The aliens send destroyer ships  periodically and the people of Earth desperately seek new ways to defeat  them. The aliens improve their approach with each attack to counter earlier  Earth strategies. The characters harness the WWW to devise strategies that  go beyond the abilities of any single individual. The story is flat, the  plot is dull, and characters are two-dimentional. Numerous obvious plot  holes exist. For instance, detailed tactical commands are beamed from Earth  to assault platoons that breach the alien ship. Split second reflexes are  needed to defeat the aliens, along with innovative tactics. With the delay  required for the Web consensus to develop and the transmission delays  between earth and the alien ships, the commandos would be fried. If you  have some free time, try a &quot;Star Trek&quot; re-run rather than this  book.	1999-11-17
US	51844291	R3VIDD83NU6DVW	0886777992	359194039	This Alien Shore	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	An exciting book that will keep you engaged	This Alien Shore is a story about humanity. Who are we and what makes us human? The theme has been explored by a host of S.F. writers. Friedman's novel has some elements that very closely parallel themes in  &quot;Dune&quot;, for instance. The book is, however, no simple retreading  of roads well-worn. Friedman creates an exciting plot and a gripping  backdrop for her work. She engages the reader as well as anyone in this or  any other genre. The motives and actions of the characters are realistic.  In some ways, the main character, who is immensely interesting, is the most  disappointing. The potential was so great that I would have like to have  seen the character take a bit more control of the action. This is a  relatively minor point in book that ranks in the excellent range.	1999-10-06
US	51844291	R1HJEHNLCZNQQ2	0807083054	640447547	Kindred (Black Women Writers Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An attempt to bring the past alive with SF	Portraying a topic as sensitive as slavery is difficult. Much of the existing literature depicts the Old South's \\"peculiar institution\\" from the standpoint of the white slaveholders. Some of these stories, such as  Margaret Mitchell's \\"Gone with the Wind\\" are wildly inaccurate. In  \\"Kindred\\", Ms. Butler attempts to bring to life both slaves and  slaveholders through the eyes of a young black woman from the late 20th  century who somehow slides back to ante-bellum Maryland. The woman arrives  at times in which she can prevent the death of an ancestor who has yet to  produce the progeny in the line that eventually leads to her. Should the  ancestor die before completing this important task, her existence  presumably would end. The protagonist faces the \\"grandfather paradox\\" of  time travel.<br /><br />Ms. Butler's attempt to put a human face on slaves and  slaveholders is, in my view, weakened by the protagonist's multiple jumps  between modern and ante-bellum times. This device allows us to see the  slave-slaveholder relationship in different lights. However, I was troubled  logical inconsistencies produced by these multiple jumps. For instance, why  did the protagonist not arm herself with an Uzi submachine gun and a few  cases of ammo in anticipation of being pulled back into the dangerous  ante-bellum South. In a society armed with muzzle-loading muskets, she  would have had the firepower to hold off a brigade of soldiers. If she was  not going armed, why not include some penicillin in addition to the aspirin  that she did take. It is cheap and could have cured almost any illness she  might have contracted in the pre-antibiotic era. Ms. Butler is an excellent  writer. The story is interesting and worth the read.	1999-08-23
US	51844291	R2OVXO5Q9QOJIL	0812544749	457759028	Beggars Ride (Beggars Trilogy (also known as Sleepless Trilogy))	Books	2	12	12	N	N	Disappointing	\\"Beggars Ride\\" is both the shortest and the least satisfying book in Ms. Kress' \\"Beggars\\" series. From the standpoint of construction, the book has a number of contrived plot devices. I can't go into those without giving  away parts of the story. Suffice it to say, they will be obvious to most  readers. The author introduces one appealing new character who overcomes  her psychological and emotional difficulties through force of will. In her  earlier books, Ms. Kress explored the impact of both real and perceived  psychological differences on groups of people. The message from this book  seems to be that you can will away shortcomings and change your neural  function at the same time. Had the first book of the series been of the  quality of \\"Beggars Ride\\", I certainly would not have gone further. This  was a disappointing end to an otherwise powerful exploration of social  inclusion, exclusion, and discrimination.	1999-08-07
US	51844291	R283FEIAH897OB	0061051128	498222500	Moonfall	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Bland, disappointing	The book cover describes \\"Moonfall\\" as \\"the Titanic in space.\\" The Titanic was a predictable kid's movie. What does that say about this book? McDevitt used the basic outline of \\"Moonfall\\" in his earlier novel, \\"Engines of  God\\", to much better effect. There, a large object fell into the ocean of a  planet being explored by archeologists from Earth who faced a deadly  tsunami as they rushed to retrieve an invaluable artifact. The difference  is that this action was only one segment of the novel and occurred in,  perhaps, one hundred pages. \\"Moonfall\\" is 500 slow-paced pages filled with  predictable events. McDevitt also used the \\"news bulletin\\" format in  \\"Engines of God\\", again with much greater effect. Finally, he introduces so  many characters in such detail that one begins to lose track of who all  these people are. Each chapter is subdivided into sections labeled with the  time that catalogues events, primarily in space and in the US. The object  of providing these little snippets into the lives of ordinary people is to  give the effect produced by current news outlets as they interview random  citizens to get their reaction. The effect is to draw the reader's  attention from the few characters who make up the core of the novel. The  epilogue leaves open a possible sequel to this novel. I hope it does not  transpire.	1999-07-31
US	51844291	R20VJVI596F1MB	034542140X	650855649	The Tenth Planet (Book 1)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An interesting story, but is it a novel?	\\"The Tenth Planet\\" is an interesting and well-written story involving the approach toward Earth of a previously unknown celestial object. The theme has appeared in SF many times and has been used with varying degrees of  success. The plot is fairly predictable. However, the authors do a good job  with character development and raising suspense. The story flows smoothly,  with people who act and re-act logically (with the exception, perhaps, of a  US president who balks at nuclear weapons when faced with the greatest  threat ever to the human species.) <br /><br />The annoying aspect of the book is  its clear \\"serial\\" quality. \\"The Tenth Planet\\" is not a novel, but an  installment in a story series. Serialization is a very pervasive entity in  SF today. Few novels appear to be written without the possibly, at least,  of a follow-up work. Fortunately, most of the installments are relatively  complete works (e.g., the Honor Harrington series or the Ender Wiggin  series). In contrast, \\"The Tenth Planet\\" stops in the middle of the action,  with a virtual \\"to be continued ...\\" statement. This tactic increases  revenue for writers and publishers as readers buy the next book to find out  what happened. However, the demi-novel format is just unacceptable, and  diminishes an otherwise fine work of SF. This approach is very much that of  today's comic books. The fact that the authors have written for \\"X-men\\" and  the \\"Star Trek\\" series may not be coincidence	1999-07-25
US	51844291	R1YOGSAHXCYZP8	0312862873	531679250	Door Number Three	Books	2	5	9	N	N	A puzzling work of SF	I looked forward to \\"Door Number Three\\" after reading the jacket cover. I like SF that plays on issues of time and alternate realities and the like. This book was not at all what I hoped for. Mr. O'Leary writes well and  fluidly. His story has a staccato quality that must attempt to highlight  the discontinuities of reality that he explores. For me, the result was a  book that was difficult to \\"get into.\\" The main character is appealing.  This was not the case for the others, including the mysterious woman from  an different plane of reality. The ideas are interesting, and the writing  is crisp. The story execution falls short, however.	1999-07-21
US	51844291	RCH1JB1E3X4US	0812550102	170574882	Beggars and Choosers (Beggars Trilogy (also known as Sleepless Trilogy))	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A powerful exploration of human nature	In \\"Beggars and Choosers\\" Ms. Kress continues to pursue questions concerning the role of biomedical technology in \\"improving\\" the quality of the human species. Almost everyone accepts the premise that modern medical  science should strive to eliminate physical and mental defects. What  happens, however, when we have the technology to enhance traits, such as  intelligence, to levels beyond \\"normal\\"? She creates a society stratified  on the basis of genetic enhancements. This society begins to fragment as  the groups grow to distrust and then hate each other. The novel is more  crisply written than its predecessor, \\"Beggars in Spain\\" and the characters  have more depth. This is true even for the SuperSleepless, who may be a  different species altogether. Ms. Kress wrote \\"Beggars and Choosers\\" in the  first person, in contrast to \\"Beggars in Spain\\" which is in the third  person. She writes through the eyes of three characters to give different  perspectives of the new social stratification, and is very effective at  this task. Leisha Camden, the key character in the first novel, has only a  minor role in this work. I was disappointed by her unceremonious exit.  Getting readers to invest this much emotion in characters, however, is the  mark of a good writer.	1999-07-17
US	51844291	RD6KOZ62I7DH	0805061835	523514507	Real Boys: Rescuing Our Sons from the Myths of Boyhood	Books	2	26	33	N	N	First-rate issue; second-rate book	Real Boys has received tremendous publicity in the wake of the recent school tragedies across the country that involved boys with guns. Dr. Pollack has appeared on many talk shows and given many interviews. Our  \\"Dad's Reading Group\\" in Boston eagerly anticipated Real Boys as our  monthly project. We were sorely disappointed.<br /><br />The issues involved in  raising boys (and raising girls) are tremendously important and complex.  Dr. Pollack's treatment is repetitive and superficial. The book is filled  with, \\"as I will discuss in a later chapter\\". Unfortunately, when the issue  is touched upon later, there usually is no more depth than with the initial  allusion. Sweeping statements are made about the separation of boys from  their mothers at early ages as these young men are forced to accept the  \\"Boys Code\\". Sweeping statements, by nature, are inaccurate. The book also  has a self-aggrandizing tone (\\"although many people believe that ...., my  research shows...\\"; with no reference to allow the reader to judge the  quality of the \\"research\\"). The tragedy is that a book that is widely  touted to provide insight into important issues is really only marshmallow  fluff.	1999-07-14
US	51844291	R39Z4S9FFRRX3E	038079439X	431533232	Expendable (League of Peoples, Bk. 1)	Books	4	25	25	N	Y	An entertaining book with some interesting views of society	SF is an excellent vehicle to explore aspects of our human nature or of human society. Expendable examines the definition of \\"humanness\\", the nature of bigotry, and the underpinnings of official corruption. The author  creates a future in which people with appropriate physical defects are  denied available medical care, and become second class citizens assigned to  unpleasant and ultimately dangerous work as Explorers in the human  interstellar fleet. Explorers make first contact with aliens and sometimes  fall victim to injury or death due to misunderstandings. Because Explorers  are physically unattractive, other members of the interstellar fleet can  accept death or injury of these people (or almost people, in their eyes)  more easily. A dark secret is that the Admiralty uses an apparently  hospitable planet as a dumping ground for undesirables, since for unknown  reasons, no one apparently survives or returns.<br /><br />Gardner creates an  interesting tale that has moral underpinnings without preaching to the  reader. The book is well-written and flows nicely. He builds smoothly to a  climax and the characters, including some distinctly alien beings, are  people who you care about. I did wonder why the marooned Explorers, who  have no close attachments in the way of  family or friends, are so anxious  to return to an institutionally corrupt society that has discarded them. A  nice Earth-like world where one could live in peace seemed a pretty good  alternative.	1999-07-05
US	51844291	R25BCE3615JDX8	0553281879	467810654	No Enemy But Time	Books	1	5	12	N	N	Dull and and a bit bizzare	This book is more fantasy than SF, but makes little sense overall. The idea of a modern human interacting with our forebearers from two million years ago is interesting. Palentologists and amatuer enthusiasts speculate  what Homo habilis would be like, given the evidence suggesting many modern  features, although a small braincase. The protagonist interacts with these  people in a very profound way using time travel as a vehicle.<br /> There are  many plot holes in a story that overall has an interesting thesis. With the  exception of the &quot;hardest&quot; SF, a bit of magic is required for the  plot line. The author may use technospeak with anti-quarks, quantum  mechanical tunneling or the like. In other situations, the author may just  us the &quot;black box&quot;, such as an alien device whose workings are  beyond our science. After applying the magic, however, the plot should be  consistent with our general perceptions of reality and allow the reader to  follow along. This is not the case with &quot;No Enemy but Time.&quot; The  bizzare connection between dreams and some ancient alternate, parallel or  whatever world left me confused and dissatisfied.	1999-02-13
US	51844291	R14V04T1YFJURA	0345424611	204504743	Parallelities	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A clever satire	An author should not have to stamp &quot;satire&quot; on the cover of a book to have readers look at it in the proper light. Parallelities is a light satire which has many clever twists. I found this book much more  enjoyable than the lionized &quot;Hitchhiker's Guide&quot;. <br /> Foster  begins with an aura that suggests the standard serious SF genre. However,  the book quickly becomes a light-hearted ride thorough a series of unreal  universes. The writing is crisp, with many &quot;tongue-in-cheek&quot;  situations. I agree that Mr.Foster began to fade a bit toward the end.  However, the book overall provided a pleasant afternoon's reading. This is  not &quot;Dune&quot; or even &quot;Hyperion&quot;, but is not meant to be.	1999-02-13
US	51844291	R1AHJME0WIMP8Q	0684838613	260851577	The Whole Shebang: A State-of-the-Universe(s) Report	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An excellent overview of cosmology for the lay person	Tim Ferris is an excellent writer who uses analogies to explain a variety of concepts in physics and cosmology. The book covers the topics both from the standpoint of physical science as distilled from the myriad of  mathematical equations which he largely avoids and from the stanpoint of  social science and history. I believe that some of the attempts at  explanations were oversimplications and at times, inaccurate. However, the  purpose was to provide an overview that is easily readable and reasonably  accurate for non-physicists. More detailed, accurate and less readable  books are available from John Wheeler, Freeman Dyson and others for those  wishing more &quot;accuracy.&quot;	1999-01-06
US	51844291	RU0W46ZGYFCPI	0553378937	499408577	Aftermath (A Bantam spectra book)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An interersting novel with some suspense.	Mr. Sheffield is one of the premier writers of &quot;hard&quot; SF. The novel begins with one suspension of scientific principles: alpha centari goes supernova. This cannot happen happen by today's known mechanisms of  supernova formation, as binaries that go supernova involve a dwarf star.  Once this happens, however, Mr. Sheffield follows the consequences of a  gamma ray blast from the exploded star that happens to emit in a direction  that puts earth in the path. The EMP pulse devastates the computerized  world by frying nearly every microchip on the planet. When this is added to  the global weather changes, the problem is monumental. The novel focuses on  events involving three main groups of people, one of which is the president  of the United States. <br /> Overall the novel flows pretty well, and the plot  lines are interesting. The novel may have been better served by having one  less major line to follow. This is particularly true of the events  surrounding the US president. Many of the things that happen (such as a  quiet dinner with one of his aides one evening) are hard to imagine in the  face of the greatest disaster to strike Earth during recorded history. It  is surreal to have the president having a quiet dinner and talking about an  old flame when Australia and the whole of southern Africa are apparently  gone due to the violent weather patterns in the southern hemisphere. The  scene is reminescent of Nero playing the lyre while Rome burned, though  this is not the author's intent. Overall, the novel is in the  &quot;good&quot; range. More focus and stronger plot development could have  made it &quot;excellent.&quot;	1998-12-14
US	51844291	R2NGU1FW3SX3X3	055357681X	166024671	The Seeds of Time (Bantam Spectra Book--T.P. Verso)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	A disappointing environmental activist saga	Ms. Kenyon caricatures the current world environmental crisis by creating a canvas in which plants are dying off due to man's years of mistreatment of his home, good old mother earth. To solve the problem, the government  and its co-conspirator companies hatch a scheme which takes advantage of a  newly discovered paradigm that allows time travel. Faster-than-light travel  remains prohibited under Einstein's laws of physics. However, the time  travel mechanism allows crews of these ships to plunge backward in time by  hundreds of millions of years. Since the galaxy revolves, time travel  allows the crews to visit other places in the galaxy, but at different  times in the past. The quest is for a variety of plant life that will  survive earth's high UV exposure and pollution, and allow life on the  planet to continue. <br /> The story is crammed with plot holes. SF should  have some semblance of logic. For instance, the technology currently exists  to deal with depletion of the ozone layer, UV irradiation, and even  atmospheric pollution. The primative recombinant DNA technology that we  currently possess allows us to drastically alter the characteristics of  both plants and animals. Certainly any society that has embarked on time  travel in  craft costing $300 billion each would deal with these issues  more straightfordly! <br />  Segments of good writing are interspersed with  plot twists that make no sense. Characters are often irrational. For  instance, a subgroup of people on a ground team to a planet that has  promising plant life (400 million years in the past) decide to mutiny and  remain, and force several unwilling crew members, including the heroine, to  remain with them. Since genetics dictate that a herd size of at least 1,000  is needed to have the DNA diversity to start a self-sustaining colony, the  insistence of the 4 rebels that the 4 loyalists remain with them to found a  new world makes no sense. I could go on, but what's the point. Besides, I  hate books that are such obvious vehicles to preach to us naughty boys and  girls.	1998-11-15
US	51844291	R3JHE9UWEE92L3	0061054887	758428577	The Dispossessed (Hainish Cycle)	Books	1	10	59	N	N	Interesting Concepts; Poor Execution	Ms. Le Guin explores the possible shape of an ideal anarchy using SF (or really fantasy) as a vehicle. The book is filled with long passages of philosophy interspersed with brief bouts of activity. The plot is weak and  meandering. She would have been better off simply writing a brief treatise  on anarchy and capitalism without the pretext of a novel.	1998-11-06
US	51844291	R1SNTUCW93XSZZ	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Exciting and Creative Novel	A Fire upon the Deep is one of the best SF novels that I have read. Mr. Vinge skillfully interweaves related but parallel stories in a most entertaining fashion. He creates some very unusual characters who take on a  real life of their own during the course of the story. Vernor Vinge may be  the most skillful SF writer currently active, with his combination of  wonderful imagination and engaging prose. For anyone looking for an  enjoyable few hours of escape, A Fire upon the Deep is your ticket.	1998-11-06
US	51844291	RO7F4EY02WJ8H	0553572989	847641664	The Rise of Endymion (Hyperion)	Books	2	1	4	N	N	In like a lion, out like a lamb.	Hyperion is one of the best SF novels that I have read. Fall of Hyperion  continued in this same excellent vein. After that, the course was downhill,  or perhaps into a gravity well in the spacetime continuum. The last  installment in the series, the Rise of Endymion, is not a terrible novel.  However, the work is a great disappointment when held against the promise  of the first two in the series. It also squelched hopes that the prosaic  and dull, Endymion was a just a glitch.<br /> The essence of good drama is  human conflict. Not war and strife, but humans who are torn between good  and evil,  right and wrong. This is true of Shakespeare's Hamlet, Richard  Wright's Bigger Thomas, and Frank Herbert's Paul Atreides. People lacking  the &quot;tragic flaw&quot; of Greek drama are often not very interesting  subjects. Good stories centered on Jesus Christ are lacking because as a  person of perfection, he is not particularly interesting (dramatically  speaking). Contrast this with the figures, such as Solomon or Joseph, from  the Old Testament who are conflicted, and often dramatically exciting.<br />  Aenea, the central figure of Endymion and the Rise of Endymion is a  Christ-like figure of perfect character who foresees and accepts great  personal tragedy for the good of humankind. She even shares her blood with  her disciples, so that who so ever believeth in me.... Well, you get the  picture. Unlike the complex, multifaceted characters of the first two  novels, Aenea, and Raul Endymion are flat, unidimensional and ultimately  uninteresting. Father Captain de Soya is by far the most interesting  character in the novel, but receives very little press. This is unfortunate  in a novel that is excessively long and pays great attention to ultimately  unimportant items (such as the society on the world T'ia Shan).<br /> Simmons  is talented. He seems to have lost focus in these last two novels of this  series. With his penchant for poetry, I suppose that Aenea is namedfor  Aeneas, the hero of Virgil's Aeneid who roamed the Mediterranean after the  Trojan War, and eventually founded Rome. The Romans plucked Aeneas from the  powerful imagery of the Trojan War to create a hero worthy to be the  founder of the world's greatest civilization. The story is much less  interesting than the Iliad and the Odyssey which follow the trials of  much  more complex, and therefore appealing people. Homer and Shakespeare are not  considered the greatest poets in Western history for nothing. That Simmons  missed the message is unfortunate.	1998-08-30
US	51844291	R1DIMEA0X8GKHW	0812524845	693419100	Reckoning Infinity	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Great start; sluggish finish	This is an &quot;alien object approaches solar system&quot; story. The begining, involving an accidental collision of a shuttle craft with an earth-orbit space station is quite good. The set-up of the two main characters, Alis and Karl, is done quite well. Things go downhill from there, however. The two are reunited by chance in a survey ship near Pluto, when the alien object comes onto the scene. The plot drags as the team sent to investigate the object stumbles through a series of mishaps. The characters, particularly the supporting cast to the two principals, are petty and peevish. The conclusion is painfully obvious. If you want to read about alien objects, Greg Bear's &quot;Eon&quot; or ACC's &quot;Rendezvous with Rama&quot; are much more fulfilling.	1998-08-05
US	51844291	R1W63G81GCFFK8	067187733X	431788341	Redliners	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Action-filled novel with veterans of war as the focus	Redliners starts with riveting action that continues to the last page. The characters have depth that is often missing from novels whose primary focus is the effect of war on the human spirit. Only in the last two chapters does the overarching plot become clear. Drake could have dropped a few hints along the way to spice the imagination. The novel could be easily translated into a screenplay, and likely would do well at the box office.	1998-07-04
US	51844291	R1ASA861OHAGR1	0061090921	523176996	Solis	Books	3	9	13	N	N	A very interesting idea, but the plot fizzles	H(Solis begins with a very intersting idea and main character- a person who awakes one thousand years after having his brain frozen at the moment of death in the 21st century. Charles Outis wanted to see the future, even if there was only a slim chance that his brain would be revived. The brain is found in an archeological dig, and Charles Outis, dubbed Mr. Charlie by his discoverers, finds a world beyond anything he could have imagined.<br /> The premise to the story, and even the main character (a brain without a body) is very interesting. The first coulpe of chapters are well-written and drawn the reader into a facinating world that has an android created by superadvanced, genetically manipulated decendents of humankind who has a program that makes him fixedly interested in humans. The interest that the android takes in the &quot;archaic&quot; human brain makes for a good possible plot. However, the author continues to introduce new characters, many of marginal interest. For a 200 page novel, there are too many marginal characters. The most unfortunate outcome, however, is the loss of focus on the two most interesting characters, Mr. Charlie and the android. Mr. Anatansio is facinated with the broad repertoire of words availble in the English language. More time could have been put into plot development than &quot;finding the right word.&quot; The book concludes with so many unanswered questions that in almost seems the author just go tired and decided to stop.	1998-05-01
US	51844291	R3GHGO2GKTILG7	0061054216	769524782	Anti-ice	Books	2	8	10	N	N	A flat, dull novel	Anti-Ice is an &quot;alternate universe&quot; tale that takes place in 19th century. An asteroid from an unknown part ofthe galaxy assumes an orbit around the Earth, forming a new moon. Fragments fall to earth in the region of the South Pole and are discovered by British explorers. These asteroid fragments are composed of a previously unknown material dubbed, anti-ice, which releases energy on the scale of a nuclear explosion when heated.   The British industrial revolution is propelled to new heights by this discovery. Naturally, one of the first discoveries is the utility of this energy source in warfare. A struggle develops between industrialists who want to monopolize the energy potential of the substance, idealists who see it as a chance for world peace by eliminating energy (oil, etc.) as a driving force in geopolitical economics, and other military powers who see the British monopoly of this substance as a military threat.<br /> Many of the themes of Anti-Ice reflect issues of the nuclear age. The underlying conflicts parallel those that developed during the cold war. As a novel, Anti-Ice is mediocre, however. The style is stilted, reminescent of H.G. Wells. Mr. Baxter used this style to much greater effect in his novel, The Timeships, which was a &quot;sequel&quot; to Wells' The Time Machine. There is a flatness to the plot and to the characters which makes the book tedious.<br /> In addition, Mr. Baxter has 20th century exploits performed with 19th century technology (with the exception of the anti-ice energy source). A space voyage takes place, for instance, in a craft that would have lacked air-tight seals (using 19th century technology).<br /> Some SF novels are rip-roaring adventures. This is one is not. Some are full of mystery and intrigue. This one is not. Some have an underlying philosophical message. This one does not. So that doesn't leave much.	1997-12-28
US	51844291	R24Q8RA4H6AX5G	0446605166	465927379	The Reality Dysfunction: Expansion - Part II (Part 2)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	A Horror/Fantasy tale in the guise of SF	Although catalogued under SF, the two part novel, The Reality Dysfunction, has more in common with the work of Stephen King than Arthur C. Clark. The Reality Dysfunction is inundated with characters, plots and subplots, many of whose significance is unclear, even at the end of the second installment of the novel. The primary theme involves the spirits of the dead who return to capture the bodies of the living with the devilish plan to spirit the stolen bodies (along with whole planets) into some alternate universe. The unfolding plot becomes almost comical when the kindly phantasm of a man killed in Northern Ireland in the 1920's takes the time to explain the current events to a group of haggard and dispirited soldiers (and haggard and dispirited readers).<br /> Some of the disappointment stems from the fact that parts of the novel are rich with imagination and beautifully written. Mr. Hamilton is clearly a talented writer. Lack of discipline must then explain the bewildering array of activity that almost requires a score sheet. Even then, major plot holes remain. For instance, the means by which these re-embodied spirits return from the formless netherland is never explained. Nor do we know how they change the shape of matter or fire energy bolts at their enemies. The ghouls are not defeated nor even clearly contained at the end of the novel. And yet, another totally unrelated plot line involving a physicist who survived a planetary holocaust is unleashed.<br /> The most disturbing aspect, however, is the work's demeaning treatment of women. Women are mere sex objects waiting to please some man. The fact that the women are portrayed as eager and willing participants confirms the author's narrow and naive view; a view that is pure macho male chauvanism. Nearly no honest, loving relationships exist in the entire work. In a way, however, this fanciful and flawed portrayal of women fits in this fanciful and flawed novel.	1997-12-22
US	51844291	R1ZL08O2NLDD5P	0553270257	912651978	Lincoln's Dreams	Books	3	3	9	N	N	An interesting story (the Civil War) wrapped in a dull cover	Lincoln's Dream's is the story of a young woman who has peculiar dreams that turn out to be views of events before and during the Civil War. The connections are revealed to her by a literary assistant to a famous novelist who writes about the Civil War. The dreams apparently are related to the experiences of Robert E. Lee, and in many instances demonstrate the personal and professional agony that Lee suffered during the war.<br /> Not much actually happens over the course of the story, other than the revelation that the dreams involve decisive battles, such as Chancelorsville and Getttysburg, or relate to members of Lee's family. The relationship of the dreams to the psychological disturbances of the protagonist is difficult to say. There is a mix of Freudian interpretation with concepts such as dreams as prodromal warnings (essentially dream magic). Since no one knows what dreams really mean, it would have been better to create some fantasy explanation, such as brain delta waves reflected into the future by some resonance amplification.<br /> Overall, the book is well-written, but lacks direction. It just seems to fizzle out at the end. I don't think this book compares favorably with other Willis novels.	1997-12-15
US	51844291	RX4Q26CN71JB2	0446364037	643066842	Anvil of Stars	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Less than Forge of God, but good	Anvil of Stars opens with the survivors from the destruction of Earth (Forge of God) begining a quest for the beings responsible for the crime. The mysterious galactic Benefactors, who manage to save a tiny fraction of Earth's inhabitants and destroy the self-replicating machines that blasted the planet, provide a &quot;Ship of the Law&quot; for humans to carry out the galactic edict calling for the elimination of civilzations that create destructive devices of this nature. The crew of the ship are children who survived the Earth holocaust.<br />  Anvil of Stars begins slowly. The children seem petty and peevish, and lack the roundness of character that is usually typical of Bear's creations. Character developement and plot take a marked upturn after the humans meet aliens on another &quot;Ship of the Law&quot; seeking to avenge the destruction of their world. Only in the final hundred pages does Bear reach the level of intensity that has made him one of the most successful SF writers today. The plot takes interesting twists at the end, which makes for fun reading. One does not have the legendary &quot;plans within plans&quot;, but it is engaging. I only wish the book had gotten up to speed a little more quickly.	1997-12-15
US	51844291	R2VX75U2X1FCG1	0312862857	203441457	Celestis	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A walk thorough humanity's dark side.	Decay is the single word that best describes Park's brooding and dark examination of a distant human colony planet, Celestis, which is very much an Outback. Reeling under ecological disasters, Earth is the slowly dying center of a once-thriving human interstellar society. Celestis sits at the edge of that civilization, a planet whose harsh enviroment has been tackled in large part because of its mineral wealth.<br />The aboriginal peoples of the planet were either exterminated or assimilated during the heady days of human expansion. Now, however, retrenchment is the watchword. The indigenous peoples are very different from human beings, and frequently adopt surgical and medicinal approaches to make them more like their conquerers. The plot revolves around the relationship between Simon, a low-level member of the foreign service, and Katherine, the modified (and attractive) daughter of a wealthy aboriginal merchant. Their capture by native freedom fighters who deny Katherine access to the medications that maintain her &quot;humaness&quot; ignites a twisting relationship between her and Simon. Park explores the question of &quot;humaness&quot; by following Katherine's slow loss of this quality.<br /> Like most good SF, Celestis is really about us and now. Park uses the SF vehicle to ask fudamental questions about human nature. He uses Katherine's slow unraveling to probe this issue. One of the difficulties with this approach, however, is that the reader knows too little about the unaltered state of the aboriginals to determine whether some of the changes are simple reversions or true illness produced by drug-withdrawl. Further, some aspects of sexual relations in the novel are unnecessarily explicit. Graphic descriptions can be a very useful vehicle to make literary points. They must, however, be used carefully and judiciously. Park fails somewhat in this respect.<br />	1997-11-08
US	51844291	RDVVYFG1P7538	0812511638	752852000	Cold As Ice	Books	3	10	10	N	N	A well-written book, with a thin plot line.	This book is set in the near future after a major war between sects of humans that occupy the asteroid belt region and those on Earth and Mars. The plot revolves around a new weapon that one side hopes will tilt the war in their favor. Unfortunately for them, events turn sour, they attempt to cover their tracks, and we are left with a mystery.<br /> The book is well-written and easy to read. The plot does not create a great deal of suspense, and the resolution involves violations of biological principles that lack a real SF cover. As such, the stage is SF with interplanetary travel, frozen worlds that have been terraformed and the like. The plot, however, is fantasy involving biological responses beyond any norm. The mix is more than mildly annoying.	1997-11-04
