US	51847664	R17ZCZDZJTQP2I	0451459334	543198748	Conquistador	Books	3	4	4	N	N	The concept is compelling, but the execution not so much.	I've enjoyed Steve Stirling's work in the Man-Kzin novels so when I saw this novel I decided to give it a shot. <br /> <br />The premise behind the novel is simple and should be evident to anyone who reads the first fifty pages, but if you really don't want to know anything about the book then stop reading here.   <br /> <br />John Rolfe a recently returned veteran of WWII discovers/stumbles upon a portal into a parallel universe Earth. Specifically, since Rolfe lives in California, he steps into an alternate universe California as the location on the other side of the portal is the same as in our universe.  In this parallel world history has gone differently than it did on our own world.  The timeline is still the same, ie it is still 1946 in the parallel universe just as it is in Rolfe's, but everything is different.  North America was never discovered by the Europeans because of historical differences so Rolfe stumbles into a pristine and untouched California unspoiled by the depredations of European influence. <br /> <br />From there we cut to the future/present of 2009 where we meet Tom Christiansen who is a fish and game warden investigating some odd happenings with rare and endangered species.  Tom is our protagonist for the rest of the book which starts well, but flags as it nears the end. <br /> <br />The premise of the novel is fascinating, but Stirling fails to overlay an interesting story to explore it.  The overall plot is predictable and most of the engrossing parts of the novel are the revelations of how the society of the alternate Earth works and the history of that world pre-portal and post-portal. <br /> <br />There is a conflict that drives the novel's plot, but it isn't particularly new or innovative having greed and lust for power at the heart of it.  While this certainly is a legitimate driver in many conflicts both real and imagined the motivations involved don't get detailed enough to make us care one way or the other.  This is unfortunate as there is a lot of detail in the book that is completely unnecessary. <br /> <br />One unnecessary part of the novel is the extreme detail involved in the descriptions of every meal the characters consume.  It's like Stirling was on hunger strike while writing the novel as every pat of butter and dollop of gravy is gone over.  This is every single time they eat something from beginning to end whether it is cereal or a four course meal.  The first few times he details the meals the characters partake in it was fine, but after about the tenth time of reading a page of descriptions of what bread they were eating and the meat and the toppings and the side dishes it becomes tedious.  Chow down and move along already. <br /> <br />The concept of Conquistador is a good one, the details that Stirling puts into the alternate universe are well done and scientifically accurate, but the central conflict feels trite.  The book gets tedious towards the end because of this as Stirling has used up most of the alternate universe background subjects and is firmly entrenched in driving the plot. That is probably the worst part in that Stirling has a lot of good bits in the book that do fascinate, but he doesn't really involve a lot of that in the plot directly instead it just serves as wallpaper for a story that grows increasingly boring as the book progresses.	2005-10-04
US	51847664	R3N6G54Q93PCI0	1563897571	128533016	Top 10: The Forty-Niners (Top Ten)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A terrific addition to the Top Ten saga.	Top Ten: The Forty Niners takes us back to the very beginnings of Neopolis the setting for all the previous Top Ten books (except for most of SMAX).  The city of Neopolis was chosen by the government as the place to corral the abundance of super-heroes and villains that appeared during and after World War II.    The Forty Niners is really the story of Steve Traynor aka Jetlad and Leni Muller aka Sky Witch and the new start they make in Neopolis.  Traynor is a character that fans of Top Ten will recognize as the modern series chief of police in Neopolis.  In this book he is sixteen and fresh out of World War II.    The two characters meet up at the beginning of the book on the train to Neopolis and after that Moore successfully weaves the book around their two stories.  Leni becomes a police officer with the fledgling police force of Neopolis, while Steve joins the local air guard as a plane mechanic.  Both of their narratives tell us a lot about Neopolis at the time of its founding.    Part of what makes the story so successful is the fantastic artwork by Gene Ha.  The little details he puts into each panel really help to bring the story to life.  The subdued coloring by Art Lyon definitely gives the book a historical feel, if that makes any sense, and it also allows the little details in Ha's artwork to filter through.    The packaging of the book is very well done.  The wraparound dustjacket cover art is fantastic and the inside covers also contain more renderings of the characters from the book.  There is also a bookmark ribbon in the binding of the book.    Overall, I would recommend this book to just about any comic book fan or graphic novel fan.  It will certainly make you want to read the other Top Ten books if you haven't already.  It's a fine addition to anyone's collection.    For fans of Top Ten you can look forward to a new Top Ten mini-series called Beyond The Farthest Precinct set five years after SMAX.  Alan Moore hands over writing duties to Paul DiFilippo and artwork will be done by Jerry Ordway.  This apparently goes on sale 8/17/05 and I can't wait.	2005-08-08
US	51847664	R2LVI5PNLC3SJ0	0380716828	716253441	Worlds Apart	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A must read after Worlds.  Some of the best fiction ever.	This book and it's predecessor Worlds comprise a story that is exceptional and meaningful, filled with characters and situations that are given breadth and life with startling clarity.  For those that haven't read Worlds I would advise you to read that book before continuing reading this review. <br /> <br />Worlds Apart continues the story of Marianne O'Hara after the events of Worlds.  The Worlds are all that is left of civilization after a devastating war has wiped out most life on Earth.  A virus unleashed across the world continues to kill those who age beyond puberty.  Marianne has barely been able to return to the orbiting habitat of New New York where she monitors the progress of Earth and plans for the future of the human race.  <br /> <br />Marianne's lover Jeff Hawking is trapped on Earth and we follow his perspective through the ravaged aftermath.  An anomaly of Jeff's biology keeps him from dying off to the virus that plagues the population and he makes his way across the country looking to help people and find a way to communicate with Marianne in orbit. <br /> <br />The story told in Worlds Apart is one of the most extraordinary and realistic portrayals of a world gone wrong.  By telling the stories of the survivors from many different levels and with such gripping humanity Haldeman creates an intensely personal experience for the reader.  I can't recommend the two books Worlds and Worlds Apart enough.	2005-07-25
US	51847664	R2YPITXXRF8AM8	0446695564	718882852	Skinny Dip	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A decent addition to the wacky Florida world of Hiassen's novels.	Skinny Dip continues the adventures of Mick Stranahan the anti-social, serial divorcee, ex-cop protagonist from Skin Tight.  Apparently between Skin Tight and Skinny Dip Mick has once again been divorced, this time from the tv producer he met in Skin Tight.   <br /> <br />In Skinny Dip Mick rescues a woman who has been unceremoniously dumped over the side of a cruise ship by her husband.  The woman in question, Joey Perrone, floats by Mick's fishing area clinging to a bag of Jamaican weed.  The rest of the novel involves Joey and Mick taking revenge on Joey's husband in various interesting ways as well as their investigation into why exactly he attempted to kill her in the first place. <br /> <br />Fans of Hiassen's clever wit and descriptive storytelling will find Skinny Dip a quick read, but the overall book lacks some depth.  The plot progression is a bit predictable and the characters aren't as interesting as in other Hiassen novels.  Ex-Governor Clinton \\"Skink\\" Tyree makes a few short appearances (though he isn't named), but doesn't have nearly as interesting a role as in previous books.  Mick doesn't develop much as a character and Joey is less captivating than the heroines from Skin Tight or Striptease. <br /> <br />While there are flaws the book is still a worthwhile addition to a Hiassen fan's reading list. New Hiassen readers might want to try one of the aforementioned novels before giving this one a go.	2005-07-25
US	51847664	RBDGNGV1DUQ06	0380803267	790293218	King of Foxes (Conclave of Shadows, Book 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Another fine example of Feist writing.	King of Foxes is a very entertaining continuation of the Conclave of Shadows series which began in Talon of the Silver Hawk.  The protagonist is Talon alias Tal Hawkins the last remaining member of the Orosini tribe.   <br /> <br />In King of Foxes, Tal continues his quest for revenge on the persons responsible for the destruction of the Orosini.  With that in mind Tal maneuvers his way into the employ of Kaspar the Duke of Olasko, the man who ordered the Orosini extermination.  Tal's plan is to betray the Duke at the right time and destroy him as well as Quint Havrevulen the Duke's Special Captain who along with Raven (killed by Tal in the first book) led the men responsible for the Orosini extermination.   <br /> <br />Just when the plot seems to be on autopilot and proceeding in a predictable direction Feist changes things up. From then on the book is hard to put down.  Tal gains some new depth here as his infallibility is tested and while we know he will pull through eventually, how he pulls through is highly entertaining.  Part of the appeal comes from Feist's ability to successfully mix his older characters into the plot as well as develop new characters that hold our interest. <br /> <br />The conclusion of book two foreshadows an interesting third part to the series as well. <br /> <br />Certainly the experienced Feist fan will find this book appealing as it is not as predictable as Talon of the Silver Hawk.  For the new Feist reader this series is an excellent entry point into the world of Midkemia, and will tantalize with mention of characters from Feist books long past as well as visits from them.   <br /> <br />Anyone wanting to start from the beginning should try reading Magician: Apprentice.  Another alternate entry point to the Midkemia world would be Shadow of a Dark Queen.	2005-07-25
US	51847664	RDZ9XGPUK11JC	0575073616	479093526	Worlds (Gollancz Science Fiction)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A fantastic book that builds slowly to an incredible climax.	Set late in the 21st century, Worlds tells the story of a young woman, Marianne, who grew up in one of the orbital habitats (called Worlds hence the title) that surround the Earth. She journeys to Earth for the first time as part of a year long educational and sightseeing tour. She gets involved with groups and events that give the reader information, in a subtle way, about the tense political situation that exists between the Worlds and Earth. Not only is there tension between the Worlds and Earth there is additional friction between the territories and nation states of the Earth. The USA has fragmented into several republics and dominions that have widely varying socio-economic situations. This adds confusion to the geo-political landscape and sets the stage for the momentous events of the book. <br /> <br />As the plot starts to build to the exciting and dynamic conclusion, the tidbits the reader had been given in earlier chapters become more coherent. By the end of the book the pacing has completely changed and it ends at a blistering level leaving the reader wondering, what next? What next is Worlds Apart. <br /> <br />Worlds and Worlds Apart are two books that demand to be read together. The buildup in Worlds is only fully concluded in Worlds Apart. Buy Worlds separately and you will regret it for certain. Worlds and Worlds Apart together comprise an intensely compelling story that I found to be the best of Haldeman, even better than the Forever War.	2005-07-25
US	51847664	RV3TBZONX1SRV	0345345088	234589084	World of Ptavvs	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A decent first novel for Niven.	This is Larry Niven's first novel and the first novel set in his Known Space universe.  The plot revolves around the accidental revival by humans of the Thrint Kzanol from a long period of stasis. The mind-sharing between Kzanol and human telepath Larry Greenberg also plays a centrol role.   <br /> <br />The first half of the book introduces us to Kzanol and Larry while giving us some background on humanity during Larry's time.  The latter half of the novel focuses on a space race to prevent Kzanol from retrieving his telepathic amplifier helmet.  This latter half is slow and laden with details that, while scientifically accurate for the time, are boring and in some ways secondary to the advancement of the plot.  The characters in the book other than Larry or Kzanol are barely fleshed out and unfortunately the latter half of the book spends a lot of time away from Larry and Kzanol. <br /> <br />The average reader will undoubtedly find this a less compelling introduction to Niven.  For introductory Niven try N-Space which gives a good overview of Niven's work or just jump in with Ringworld. <br /> <br />A fan of Niven's Known Space will find some gems worth their time in this novel, such as tidbits about the Thrintun and Tnuctipun, that make the read worthwhile.  Overall this is a moderately good work that shows the initial promise which led to Niven's later and better work. <br /> <br />This novel can be found along with two other Known Space novels (A Gift from Earth and Tales of Known Space) in a collection called Three Books of Known Space.	2005-07-21
US	51847664	R39TC63M0F9628	0812516958	335478705	Playgrounds of the Mind: The Sequel to N-Space	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A worthwhile collection of new and old material.	As with any collection of material both new and previously released the reader's satisfaction with this book will vary depending on their experience with the writer.  For those not experienced with Niven this book in addition to N-Space will put you into the right frame of mind to explore the rest of Niven's Known Space. <br /> <br />In addition to Known Space, stories set in other Niven arenas such as the worlds of the Draco Tavern and The Magic Goes Away are included.  I find these are some of Niven's best pieces of writing and they continue in good stead here.  I did not realize until recently that Niven and Pournelle's The Burning City (and sequels) is set in the world of The Magic Goes Away. <br /> <br />I also enjoy Niven's anecdotes and tidbits about conventioning and collaborating with Pournelle and Barnes.  I'm not a big drinker so his Irish coffee recipe doesn't do anything for me, but my wife will enjoy having something new to try out when we entertain. <br /> <br />Outside the norm, Niven's Green Lantern bible is an interesting read for a fan of the comic and another good reason to pick this up. <br /> <br />Though I skipped over a fair amount of the material in Playgrounds, having read it already in other books, I still find this a worthwhile addition to my Niven collection.	2005-07-21
US	51847664	RT2OQ7WXGCYE4	0345334302	120812203	The Ringworld Engineers	Books	5	48	53	N	N	An incredible sequel that expands upon Ringworld.	The Ringworld Engineers is the sequel to Ringworld.  In Ringworld, Larry Niven introduced us to the concept of a world made in the shape of an extraordinarily large ring encircling a star.  In this book he gives us answers to questions we might not have even asked about the Ringworld, but that others apparently did.  After the publication of Ringworld, Niven received numerous pieces of correspondence from people offering helpful information about the details of how the Ringworld would actually function.  Niven took inspiration from the enthusiasm of those people and created the Ringworld Engineers in part to publish the answers to important questions about the structure.  Around those answers he has created a thoughtful and engaging story that adds in a positive way to the Ringworld legacy. <br /> <br />The basic premise behind the Ringworld Engineers is that twenty or so years have passed since Louis Wu and Speaker To Animals returned from the Ringworld.  Since then, Louis has withdrawn into a life of ascetic practices livened up by his addiction to current stimulation.  Speaker to Animals (who has earned his full name of Chmeee for the treasure he brought back from the original Ringworld adventure) lives a prosperous life on Kzin having earned high status from his Ringworld discoveries.  The circumstance that brings Louis and Chmeee back to the Ringworld is one quite familiar to them, but the situation they face upon arriving on the Ringworld is quite different than when they left.  The Ringworld is moving out of position around the sun and the only way for Louis and Chmeee to find out how to fix it lies with the origins of the Ringworld Engineers. <br /> <br />I found the Ringworld Engineers to be engaging and interesting wholely apart from the original Ringworld.  While certainly the references to parts of the original book are made more clear having read that novel, this book is very readable even having read Ringworld many years before.  Having said that, I would advise that it is a good idea to read Ringworld first as there are certainly items of that book which are spoiled herein.   <br /> <br />The way that Niven engages parts of his other novels of Known Space and entertwines them with this book made me want to go give some of those a shot as well.  He truly is a master storyteller and this is one of his best novels on his own.  Niven's collaborations with author Jerry Pournelle are also highly recommended.  The classic The Mote In God's Eye as well as Footfall and Lucifer's Hammer are all very well done and certainly are must read novels for any Niven fan.	2005-03-04
US	51847664	R28SOE1U0AX243	0812577663	37664693	The Siege of Eternity (Eschaton)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An entertaining yet somewhat conventional tale.	This is the second book in a three part series, but when I picked it up at a used book shop I didn't really know that was the case.  It was only after I finished the book that I realized there had to be more to the story.  Right up until the ending the book flows well and doesn't come up against any problematic plot devices from the first novel that it is unable to explain.  That said, I would not have been surprised to see a giant To Be Continued at the end as it does finish quite abruptly.    The overarching concept to the book (and the series) is that two species of aliens are warring across the galaxy in their quest to obtain access to the Eschaton.  The Eschaton is best explained by the human concept of heaven.  A place where everyone who has ever lived is reborn and never dies.  It's unfortunate that this concept is not really explored much at all in this book.  The Eschaton is mainly used here as the motivation behind the actions of the alien hostiles.    The book starts with the return of several people from the investigation of an orbiting space station that was supposedly modified by aliens.  The returning crew though has found nothing out of the ordinary.  Then a strange transmission is received from the space station indicating that things aren't exactly what they seem to be.        From there the story takes a series of twists and turns as various investigations ensue.  The main thrust of the book is the desire to figure out what the motivations of the various aliens are, as well as to understand what has happened to the people who have returned from the station.    The story is well paced and certainly has interesting tidbits that keep it moving along.  To be sure this book would probably make more sense having read the first book, but Pohl does a good job of filling in the necessary blanks without spoiling that first part.  That said, I will most likely pick up the first book before attempting the third book.  This isn't an instant classic like some of Pohl's other work, but it has an entertaining pulp flavor to it that keeps you coming back to see what happens next.	2005-02-20
US	51847664	R2L7HO8K1PWVVV	0441569595	769194143	Neuromancer	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A gritty and vivid debut that created a genre.	Neuromancer is William Gibson's seminal work that made mainstream the ideas of cyberspace, sprawl, cyberpunk, ICE and a host of other concepts and predictions that are close to becoming reality today.  These terms encompass a future heavily influenced by technology where the gaps between the haves and have nots have only increased.  The other potent aspect of Neuromancer is the mingling of man with machine.  This combination is more intertwined than anything we have ever encountered in reality, but at this point not so far off as to be unimaginable.   <br /> <br />Neuromancer is the story of Case, a cyperspace cowboy who once rode the electronic plains of the matrix.  Case though is damaged goods and is unable to jack into the matrix because of permanent nerve damage done to him as payback for a deal gone sour.  His access to cyberspace having been revoked he lives like a junky forever unable to get his fix.  Then he is given a second chance.   <br /> <br />Neuromancer's plot is futuristic noir as no one else had thought to do it at the time.  Case the cyberspace hacker and Molly the cyborg street samurai are archetypes that are used again and again in science fiction today.  The overlaying anti-hero archetype is what ties them to their predecessors, but the access to new technology is what divorces them from the past. <br /> <br />Is it wrong to break into and steal from the mega corporations that run the world of Neuromancer?  The distinction isn't clear.  The world is layered in shades of gray.  The megacorps do good, but they also do great evil.  There aren't any easy answers and usually the characters are doing a gut check to figure out what they should be doing.  This makes the world of Neuromancer a darker and dystopian view of the future, but one that is closer to being possible than most people would believe.   <br /> <br />There is also no grand conclusion at the end where these contradictions are wrapped up in a neat little package.  Anything like that would have been untrue to the subject. <br /> <br />I would highly recommend this to just about any adult reader.  It has subject matter that might not be appropriate for younger readers, though I know many of my high school friends read it during adolescence.  I attempted to read it at that time, but found the grim tone and hard edged style not to my liking.  I read it recently at the age of thirty and I found it to be much more interesting with the perspective I have gained with age. <br /> <br />It's important to understand that when this book was published in 1984 there was no Internet as we all know it.  The Internet was something that university researchers used for information exchange in a bare minimum sense.  It contained limited data stored on mainframes across the country and was useful only to a minute subset of the population.  To imagine the world that exists in Neuromancer was a great leap at the time and a prophetic vision of the world we inhabit today.	2005-02-20
US	51847664	R3CW2Y66D3WWBO	0786932287	637698164	The Lone Drow (The Hunter's Blades Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An interesting book two in Salvatore's trilogy.	This book continues the Hunter's Blades trilogy started in The Thousand Orcs.  While Salvatore's stories are usually fairly simple, his overall task of making an essentially immortal character more interesting is difficult.  Drizzt has become too central a character and his legend too large for us to believe that he will be killed in any of these books.  Yet Salvatore writes as if this possibility could happen and I suppose that is what keeps us coming back for more.  Most often the possibility for drama in the books revolves around one or more of the supporting cast.  This time it is Bruenor Battlehammer who lies at death's door for most of the book. <br /> <br />The book is a quick read except in the chapter interludes where Drizzt gets more introspective.  I'm not sure that these illuminate Drizzt's character in any new ways.  His thoughts often revolve around battle or his friends and his constant worry over living long past some of them (which is certainly going to come to pass at one time or another). <br /> <br />At the start of the novel Drizzt is convinced that his friends are dead (or mostly dead) having been killed by events he witnessed at the end of the last book (should you really be reading this review if you haven't read the first one?).  Under this assumption he goes native and starts waging a guerrila war on the various orc tribes in the area.  The progression of the Orc hordes is examined and most of the book follows their assault on the dwarven stronghold of Mithral Hall and the surrounding area. <br /> <br />Salvatore's older characters are central to his story, but overall the interest comes from his rendering of new characters around those old ones and the occasional shakeups in the old character's roster. <br /> <br />While there aren't any major events that happen to the established crew in this book there are certainly enough things happening to hold the reader's interest and to stimulate a Salvatore fan.  I'd say that while new readers would be slightly lost, overall it is still a fun read and most of the gaps would be filled in by reading the first book before this one. <br /> <br />As an aside, I think the best book Salvatore has written in recent years is Servant of the Shard which examines the Artemis Entreri character more closely.  In that book Entreri is revealed to be much more interesting overall than Drizzt as he becomes less of a one-dimensional bad guy.  If Salvatore really wanted to take a new tack with Drizzt it would probably involve examining a timeline a few hundred years in the future when the less long lived supporting characters had died.  As it stands the Lone Drow is fairly standard fair for Salvatore, but still worth picking up and certainly there is foreshadowing of possible shakeups and momentous events to come in the third book.  While I'm not sure that such things would come to pass, as I say it's really the thought that it might that keeps us coming back for more.	2004-07-23
US	51847664	R3QPI2T323ACH2	0380803240	492544464	Talon of the Silver Hawk (Conclave of Shadows, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Feist writes what he knows in this novel and it works.	I've read most of Feist's novels having started with the Serpentwar books and then going back and reading the Riftwar set and finally coming back and finishing off the Serpentwar books a few years ago. Talon of the Silver Hawk is my first book of his since finishing those up and it reminds me of why I enjoy Feist so much.   <br /> <br />There is a familiar style and character development at work in this novel.  Feist's protagonists are usually quite gifted in some or many ways which helps them greatly when they are thrust into the conflict central to the novel.  Talon is no different in that respect and while the story itself might seem cliched (last survivor of his tribe out for revenge) Feist manages to avoid any possibly pitfalls and engage us with rich characters and situations. <br /> <br />While the setup may seem similar to some of Feist's earlier novels it certainly doesn't take much away from the book.  Perhaps if you have read the various series back to back the setup may seem a bit overdone.  Feist is just writing what he knows though and he does it well.  <br /> <br />I've always admired writers that take on new characters instead of focusing on the same ones and Feist does succeed at that and also manages to intermingle his old characters with the new.  He does this without diverting focus to these old characters and without going into too much detail about them.  We get as much information about them as Talon does.  This keeps the story moving and also gives new readers some impetus to take on Feist's previous novels.  Feist revives my interest in his novels with this latest book and I certainly recommend it to a new reader or an old fan of his work.	2004-07-23
US	51847664	R1Q61WADTSQ528	0380704390	595107727	Buying Time	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A great suspenseful page turner from Haldeman.	Buying Time is another great book by a master of the genre of hard sci fi. Different from Haldeman's previous novels, Buying Time is less cerebral and more of a suspenseful thriller.  Despite this change there is still a unique vision of a possible future here that Haldeman defines with an edgy cynical perspective.  Haldeman's central characters defy the status quo and find themselves fighting to stay alive in a world where one corporation makes the rules about life and death.<br />The premise behind Buying Time is that in the near future a process is developed that lets people live forever.  The catch is that only one company sells this process and it costs whoever wants it everything they own with a minimum payment of one million dollars.  In addition the process only lasts for ten years.  There are other onerous rules associated with making that million that makes it more difficult than usual for people to get rejuvenated.<br />A small group of people have managed to make a habit out of getting rejuvenated and become a subculture unto themselves.  Dallas Barr is one of these people, having already lived for several hundred years.  At the outset of the novel Dallas, along with a host of other immortals, is invited to join a secret group called the Steering Committee. His refusal to join initiates a series of events that set the book in motion.<br />The rest of the novel leads us through the mysteries of the Stileman Foundation (the makers of the Stileman rejuvenation process) the motivations of the Steering Committee and the effect it has on Dallas and his companion Maria Marconi.<br />Their relationship is played out in a relatively superficial manner, but the pacing of the book is such that it doesn't matter all that much.  The tidbits that we are given are enough to give context to the situations that Dallas and Maria find themselves encountering.  This combined with a plot filled with many mysteries keeps the pages turning throughout.<br />The only downside would be how the book ends.  After a considerable buildup of suspense the ending feels like a bit of a cop out and doesn't seem to connect properly with the rest of the story. This is very much a book where a good middle props up a humdrum beginning and weak ending.<br />Buying Time is certainly a very good book, perhaps not in league with Haldeman's Worlds and Worlds Apart, but definitely a fun and thought provoking piece of science fiction.	2004-04-05
US	51847664	R1OTD9JB7J8E4J	0345362470	596782271	Jack the Bodiless (Galactic Milieu Trilogy)	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A great read and a fascinating continuity.	Jack the Bodiless is the first book in the Galactic Milieu Trilogy.  This book and the rest of this trilogy should be read after reading the other related series, the Intervention books (Surveillance and The Metaconcert) and The Saga of The Pliocene Exile (The Many Colored Land, The Golden Torc, The Nonborn King, The Adversary).  Those two series can be read in any order, but I would recommend perusing first the Saga and then Intervention.  Those two series will give you a significant grounding in the characters and setting you encounter in the Galactic Milieu trilogy.<br />I tried to read this book after reading the Intervention series and it was too jarring a transition for me at the time.  So I put the book away for a few years and then came back later after having read the Saga of The Pliocene Exile and found this series much more comprehensible and absorbing.  Once I came back to his series I read all three books in about a weeks time.<br />The story (and in fact the whole Galactic Milieu trilogy) is told as a recollection of Rogi Remillard a familiar character to those who read the Intervention books.  Many times his is the voice telling the story and at other times we transition to the individuals themselves to see from their perspective.<br />This book is mainly about the events that form around the time frame encompassing the gestation, birth and early life of Jack the Bodiless.  These events include the early life of Marc Remillard and the threat to the Remillard family caused by the Fury and Hydra entities.  I found the Remillard family interaction and characters created in the series to be very compelling overall.  The continuity of events ties neatly into the other series, but unfortunately without those books it can be a bit daunting to pick up on references and terminology in this book.  To get the full effect that previous events have had on the characters in the book (enormous in many ways for Rogi, but often glossed over by him in these books to avoid dwelling on unpleasantness) it is almost required that one delve into those previous series.<br />I highly recommend this book, but only after the above mentioned series have been read.oid dwelling on unpleasantness) it is almost required that one delve into those previous series.  <br />I highly recommend this book, but only after the above mentioned series have been read.	2004-02-25
US	51847664	R3ICB1PZTFUQPO	0345362489	996644225	Diamond Mask (Galactic Milieu Trilogy)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A focused and interesting continuation to a grand series.	Diamond Mask continues the Galactic Milieu trilogy which starts in Jack The Bodiless.  If you have not read that book and the preceding series (The Saga Of The Pliocene Exile and Intervention) then you should not read this book.  It is a well thought out and interesting book on its own, but it holds far more value when viewed in context with it's predecessors.<br />Diamond Mask is once again told as the recollections of Rogi Remillard, though for the most part this device dissolves into standard storytelling except when Rogi is directly involved.  The book primarily focuses on Dorothea MacDonald (aka Diamond Mask).  Her childhood, early life and her connection to the Remillard family through the entities Fury and Hydra (and later through Jack) are explored in this book.  The development of her mental abilities and her major role in the Galactic Milieu takes center stage for most of the book.  Fury and Hydra also become more of the focus of the book as Diamond Mask is heavily influenced by them in her childhood and in her later adult life.<br />Another focus of the book is Marc Remillard and his continuing development and increasing influence on the Galactic Milieu.  This along with the growing rebellion against the Milieu is one of the main subplots to the book that get explored further in Magnificat, the third book in the series.<br />The characters are once again well thought out and though many years are skipped at times to move the story along it keeps us focused on important events instead of boring details.  The pacing of the book is quick and the events revealed are momentous and it leaves you itching to get to the next book in the series.  <br />This is everything a second book in a series should be.  It is holds up well on its own, but it also neatly links up the preceding and following books in the series.	2004-02-25
US	51847664	RE2EZUTGVVH06	0345362497	311472004	Magnificat (Galactic Milieu Trilogy)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Holds together well, but seems to end too quickly.	Magnificat is the ending of the Galactic Milieu trilogy and for the most part the end of the overall series which started in the Saga of the Pliocene Exile and continued in Intervention.  This book will be nearly unreadable for those who have not read the previous books in the Galactic Milieu trilogy and it is further recommended that you read the aforementioned series (Saga and Intervention) as well.  My review is predicated on having read all of that material.<br />Having said that, Magnificat is a wonderful conclusion to a great series of books.  The only unfortunate part is the ending which is foreshortened because the real ending for many of the characters in this book is actually what happens in the Saga of The Pliocene Exile.  Despite this I can't help agreeing with the other reviewer that we could have benefited from a more detailed denouement involving Rogi, the Remillard family and the returned Pliocene Exiles.  Some more details to wind us down after the momentous events at the end of the book would have been welcome.<br />As it is this book gives us the final disposition of humanities position within the Galactic Milieu, the fate of Marc Remillard, Mental Man and the Metapsychic Rebellion, as well as Jack The Bodiless and Diamond Mask.  In addition it resolves the Fury and Hydra plotline.  All in all there is a lot happening in this book and it is easy to see why people might be dissatisfied with the conclusion of all these plots in one book.  Many writers would have had this book be twice the size, but Julian May manages to not jam too many details into the mix here, maybe to the detriment of the story, but in the end the pacing remains quick and focused.  For those who have read the Saga of The Pliocene Exile those books give a more satisfying conclusion to the events begun in this series even though Saga actually circles back around and is actually the beginning.  All the more reason to read the other series before this one to gain a full understanding of why things end the way they do and why and how the Family Ghost came back to have Rogi write these memoirs.<br />I can't agree with those giving this book a 1 star review as this book is very consistent with the themes and plots of the previous books and closes the circle of the three series in an above average fashion.  The only gripe keeping this from being a five star book would be the aforementioned lack of detail at the finale.	2004-02-25
US	51847664	RH0F6CGTG3211	140003339X	471212842	McSweeney's Mammoth Treasury of Thrilling Tales	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A varied collection of well done short stories.	The classic cover and title flavor of this collection of Thrilling Tales might lead one to think this a homogenous collection of pulp style fiction.  Nothing could be further from the truth though.<br />A talented and varied group of writers combine here to deliver short stories of excellent quality.  While the styles and choices of the writers may not be altogether consistent with the likes of the reader they all do a commendable job of telling an entertaining story.<br />As with most readers I found some stories more compelling than others, but I enjoyed the collection as a whole enough that the low points were outweighed by the highs.  <br />For many readers the strength of the short story can also be its weakness.  The brevity of such a composition in some ways limits a writer, but the format also frees them to tell a story in a way that would not be possible in a novel format.  For a reader this can easily lead to disappointment as story construction can vary widely from one to another.  Expectations also vary from one author to another, especially with names as well known as some of those collected herein.  Some of the best stories in this collection come from authors that have little name recognition.  It behooves the reader to enjoy each of these tales as a separate entity and apart from the confines of the author's previous work.  <br />Overall, this is a fun exercise in storytelling enabling the reader to experience some well known and some not so well known authors in a format that is always entertaining.	2003-10-07
US	51847664	RTRYHXNL3WS4P	0786929804	926952674	The Thousand Orcs (Forgotten Realms: The Hunter's Blades Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Definitely one of his better books.	The Thousand Orcs is another book in the neverending saga of Drizzt Do'Urden and his companions.  While at times Salvatore has seemed to be on autopilot with these characters this latest book feels fresh and continues the evolution of these people we have come to know and love.<br />For those that enjoy AD&amp;D, Salvatore has always been the best writer to translate that world into prose.  This time around the companions are faced with the challenge of defending areas of the Savage Frontier from attack by a large force of Orcs (if that wasn't obvious from the title).<br />The pacing of the book is quick. Events never seem forced, instead evolving logically from one to another.  Salvatore juggles the story between his cast of familiar characters and does it well.  The novel doesn't have the dark tone of his recent books.  The companions have passed through hard times and are reunited to face this new threat.  <br />The ending seems to be a bit of a stretch, but it does send the characters in a new direction that will make for interesting reading in upcoming books.	2003-09-19
US	51847664	R3HJI3W9XTJWP5	038549565X	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Epic Account of World War II's Greatest Rescue Mission	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An uplifting account of  real life heroism.	Ghost Soldiers is the tale of the rescue of Allied prisoners from the Japanese prison camp at Cabanatuan in the Phillipines during WWII.<br />Hampton Sides effectively sets up the story of the rescue by giving us background on the events that led up to the capture of Allied soldiers in the Phillipines.  He lets us know what the prisoners interned in the Cabanatuan camp had to endure.  Their journey starts with the Bataan Death March and ends in a camp riddled with disease where men are starved and beaten at the whim of their captors.  <br />After Sides lays out the background for the prisoner situation he begins to give us information about the Rangers that would risk their lives in a perilous rescue mission across thirty miles of hostile territory.  As the book continues Sides switches quite successfully between the prisoner point of view and the Ranger situation.  He uses these different points of view to make the narrative a bit more suspenseful and effectively keeps the reader guessing about what the Rangers are going to find at the camp.  The camp situation continues to be fluid throughout the book as the war continues and the Japanese become more aware of their perilous situation.  The differing timelines and points of view come together by the end of the book when the Rangers make their final play to free the prisoners.<br />Certainly there are plenty of stories of heroism from WWII that have been told and probably more than have not and never will be told.  The story of these prisoners and their rescuers is as deserving of telling as any that have come before.  Hampton Sides does an excellent job portraying the overall situation without losing focus on the story he wants to tell.	2003-09-19
US	51847664	R3LE9S1OHXTHN7	0743458370	16747248	Wild Cards VI: Ace in the Hole (Vol 6)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Slow in the first half, but makes up for it in the second.	Please note:  This review was written for Wild Cards VI: Ace In The Hole, but Amazon in their wisdom seems to have lumped all Wild Cards reviews together so this may appear under the review sections for the other books.  There are many Wild Cards novels out there (I think at least fifteen or more).    Wild Cards VI is a good, but not great continuation of this series of mosaic novels.      The sixth book is written in the same way that the third book was.  The original idea behind the sets of books was that the first two books of each set of three were to be individual stories linked by an overarching storyline.  The third book in each set of three was to be a true mosaic novel in that each author involved would be writing part of one story.  No obvious story breaks would occur.  These third novels would finish off the overarching storyline started in the first two books.    The sixth novel works a bit better than the third novel did in that regard.  The story is more tightly woven together flowing cleanly between the events of each author.    The novel focuses on the Presidential campaign of Gregg Hartmann and the events of the Democratic National Convention of 1988.  Hartmann, as readers of the series know, is the Ace Puppetman and has used his manipulative powers to get to this point in his political career.  In this novel we get an extra helping of Puppetman and really get to delve into what makes this character work.    The other characters prominent in the events of this novel are Tachyon, Jack \\"Golden Boy\\" Braun, and James \\"Demise\\" Spector.    The build up is quite slow in this one and an awful lot of time at the beginning of the book is given up to Tachyon's continuing impotence problem and his associated self loathing.  Jack doesn't fair much better as he is still playing the despised outcast role.  The only one that really has some interesting moments in the first half is Puppetman, but he isn't really able to hold up the book by himself.    When things finally start rolling along in the second half the action flies fast and furious and events unfold that have large repercussions on the characters involved.  It is just a bit of a chore getting to that point.    For those readers of previous books there are tantalizing glimpes of the problems that Hiram is going through with Ti Malice, but there is no resolution.  Look to further books to solve that issue.  Other than that no other Aces get much use.    I grappeled with giving the book a 3 or a 4 star rating. While I felt the last part of the book was 5 star stuff I didn't feel like it was enough to make up for the tedium of the 2 star first half.  I'd probably give the book about a 3.5, but since I enjoy the series I bumped it upward to 4.    -H	2003-07-24
US	51847664	R3TGYQTH0S4IQW	044661193X	628573598	Basket Case	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Par for the course for a slick dialogue master like Hiassen.	Basket Case puts us into the shoes of a local Florida reporter named Jack Tagger. Jack has been demoted to writing obituaries after insulting the owner of the newspaper he works for.  Jack's reason for doing this is made clear in the book and it is an important one of the many items that gives us a feel for Jack's character.  As with most of Hiassen's lead characters Jack is a bit of an oddball.  A literary crusader and all around good guy who finds it hard to contain his sarcastic wit when it comes to people that he doesn't like.  Jack is a bit of a worrier and the Basket Case of the book's title as he is constantly obsessing about writers who have died at the same age that he is currently.<br />The main plot boils down to, Jack gets put on the obituary of a former rock star and ends up trying to solve a murder.<br />Unlike in previous books Hiassen uses a new set of characters in Basket Case, not going to the well of Florida oddballs he has fictionalized in his past novels.  This works out fine as most of the characters are quirky and distinct in many of the same ways that his others have been.  I'd say the quirky character factor is moderate here compared to some of his other novels.<br />Hiassen has a knack for creating witty banter for his characters.  Jack Tagger's internal thought process is what gives color to Hiassen's world and what speeds Basket Case along despite a murder mystery that isn't actually all that interesting.  A series of little plot twists throughout keeps you guessing at what might end up happening in the end though.<br />Overall not Hiassen's best but certainly a fast paced book with plenty of amusing situations, dialogue and characters.	2003-07-21
US	51847664	R2ZAAP287GHVVU	0553572989	847641664	The Rise of Endymion (Hyperion)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A stunning, but uneven conclusion to an awesome series.	The Rise of Endymion concludes the four book saga begun in Hyperion.  In reality though there are two two book sets.  The first two and the last two.  While they are linked by a common history they are very different stories.<br />This final book answers most of the questions that one might have regarding the Core and the Shrike, although it still leaves things open for an exploration of the future war between the human and core Ultimate Intelligence factions alluded to throughout the series.<br />The growth of Aenea and Raul's relationship with each other and Aenea's importance to the galaxy at large are at the heart of the plot.  There isn't much that can be said in that regard without spoiling parts of the book for people.  Suffice it to say that it is utterly compelling.<br />While I enjoyed this book and it's conclusion immensely I did find that parts of the book bogged down, particularly in the endless character and scenic descriptions on certain worlds which take up too much time and get little use after their initial presentation.  Setting the stage is one thing, but some of it seemed overdone in its detail.<br />That said, I can't recommend this book highly enough for those that have read the first three books.  Those books are required reading to fully understand what happens in this one.<br />Here is hoping that Dan Simmons will do more with the Hyperion universe in another set of books perhaps continuing further into the future.	2003-06-19
US	51847664	R3F9ZZ4O4SFGTX	0553572946	629359173	Endymion (Hyperion)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A very different book from Hyperion and The Fall of Hyperion	I can see how some might be disappointed by this book and it's sequel when relating them to the first two books.<br />Endymion takes place several hundred years after events in &quot;The Fall of Hyperion.&quot;  As such it does little to resolve the fates of the characters in those books.  Instead Endymion focuses on the journey of Raul Endymion a native of Hyperion and the child Aenea who is the daughter of the John Keats cybrid and Brawne Lamia.<br />Hyperion and it's sequel wrapped many layers of mystery around the Shrike, The Time Tombs and especially the Core.  Endymion starts the process of unraveling those mysteries.  <br />Aenea and Raul's journey takes them across the galaxy as they are pursued by forces of the Pax and the Core.  Along the way their relationship develops a meaningful quality to it that gives the book its character.<br />While this is a wholly different book from the first two in this series I enjoyed it just as much.  This book is more focused than the first two and also more reflective as it divides its time between fewer characters.  Raul and Aenea are more fully developed than most of the characters in the first two books and therefore able to carry the book on their own for the most part.<br />While I can see how some might be disappointed by this book and it's sequel because of the different tone I can't really agree with them.  I found this book to be a different, but very worthwhile followup to the first two books. <br />The fourth book &quot;The Rise of Endymion&quot; is required reading after this one.	2003-06-19
US	51847664	RNUBU791BLLG0	0812565959	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	A disappointing followup to Ender's Shadow	This novel continues Bean's story after the events in Ender's Shadow.  Bean returns to earth to join his family which happens to be his good friend Nikolai's family.  He and the rest of the Battle School children are threatened by the various countries across the globe that want to kidnap them and use their tactical skills in conflicts against each other.  Achilles returns as Bean's nemesis in this book.<br />This book starts going bad after Bean's character development stagnates about halfway through.  After that it becomes more of a chase from one place to another with endless amounts of technical detail about the brilliant strategies that Bean and the other Battle School children are employing in the conflicts across the globe.<br />Card does a lot better with fictitious battles in zero gravity than he does with something closer to reality.  By the time the book ends it's hard to care who has won or lost or to figure out what exactly they did to end up there.  Card's intent seems to be to mix up his coterie of characters and universe in a small scale war situation and explore the strategies and tactics involved.  Unfortunately his dry descriptions of what should be done, what could be done and what Bean and the other kids end up doing takes up much of the latter half of the book.<br />Peter, Ender's brother, and Ender's parents play small roles in the book as well, but mostly it follows Bean's path through the earth conflict.<br />The book is a definite step down from Ender's Game and Ender's Shadow and has turned me off of reading further books in the series.  The good thing about Card's previous books in this set was that he didn't focus too much on the details of what the kids were doing so much as their reactions to those situations.  The characters were the focus, not the minute details of what they were doing.	2003-03-25
US	51847664	R3QB0UKCC39FWU	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A superlative effort of science fiction originality.	Hyperion is a book that needs to be experienced to be appreciated fully. Trying to explain the different layers folded on top of each other and how the various stories within the story relate to each other would require as many pages as there are in the book.<br />Dan Simmons creates a novel so original and captivating that it doesn't matter that you don't get most of the answers to the book's puzzles by the end. Simmons story is mysterious and imaginative and passionate. As questions get answered more questions develop from those answers. Hyperion makes you realize why people referred to things that they could not understand as magic. When Simmons reveals his tricks though, you aren't disappointed, instead you are even more fascinated.<br />Characters are vibrant, you feel their pain and loss. The way Simmons intertwines their stories together and links their past, present and future is masterful. The sum of their remarkable individual stories adds up to an incredible whole.<br />The sequel The Fall Of Hyperion is almost a required read after you finish this book.	2003-03-25
US	51847664	R3L9QSRWMPPA7T	0671728687	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich: A History of Nazi Germany	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Truly a unique work of history.	Shirer's definitive work on the history of the Third Reich is still as relevant to the subject today as it was when it was published back in the 1960s.<br />The book was unique at the time (and quite possibly is still) because there was no precedent for a government such as the Third Reich being so utterly defeated that all their dirty secrets were laid bare.  Government documents, memos, notes, even the diaries of some of the German leaders were opened up to the world when the Reich fell.  Shirer used those sources as well as his own experiences as a journalist in Nazi Germany and conversations with living members of the former Reich to put together this book.<br />Shirer's defiance of convention at the time in writing a history so soon after the actual events initially brought criticism of his work.  The unique circumstances of the fall of Nazi Germany demanded such a history though and time has shown his book to be one of the most important works ever created on Nazi Germany.<br />Shirer's opinion of the events of the time may not ring true for all readers, but he doesn't portray his own opinion as historical fact instead letting his sources speak to that point.  Because of his position as a foreign journalist in Nazi Germany before, during and after the war Shirer's opinion of events and the people he met (including some of the most important figures in the Nazi government) is at least as valuable as the facts he presents and deserving of inclusion in this book.<br />A must read for anyone interested in Nazi Germany and World War II.	2003-03-24
US	51847664	R3LS4A7D01SXZX	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Jordan needs a new editor.	Like everyone else who bought this and made it a NYT bestseller I was hoping that after the momentous events at the end of Winter's Heart we were going to be heading for an even better book this time around. Unfortunately that is not the case. Much of this book is filled with the same interminable dialogue and descriptions that we have seen a thousand times in the previous books. In addition, the book has plenty of grammatical and spelling errors which only reinforce, in my opinion, how quickly this was pushed out to maximize dollar returns.<br />Let me sum up. Nothing happens in this book. Much of it takes place at the same time as events in the previous book were taking place. We get introduced to more throwaway characters who might have some meaning within the context of events in the next book, but who will remember by the time the next one arrives in a years time? This book is filler. It is probably the worst of the books in that it has no beginning or end, just one giant middle. I enjoyed this series of books until they started going wrong after Lord Of Chaos. I can't help but think that Jordan has lost his way somewhere and is trying to figure out how to end this thing.<br />For anyone that is thinking about reading this series, wait it out. Just wait until the last of them arrives. Don't bother buying this book. You could most likely skip it and it wouldn't make a difference at all. Jordan will more than likely sum up the important events of this book in the next book anyway. That should take all of 10 pages. I honestly have no hope left for this series at this point.<br />If you are looking for some epic fantasy to tide you over until this series ends try reading George R.R. Martin's series A Song of Ice and Fire.	2003-03-12
US	51847664	R375NHL6CJUUGN	0312252501	165161815	How to Be Invisible: A Step-By-Step Guide To Protecting Your Assets, Your Identity, And Your Life	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Luna knows what he is talking about	This book gives you all the information you need to completely and legally hide yourself away from public scrutiny.  In addition the associated website contains updates to the book content.  The website makes you aware of tactics that are no longer legitimate for keeping your privacy safe in the wake of 9/11 and also has information on new trends and tactics related to keeping your privacy secure.<br />While you may never need to take some of the actions described in this book, the information is useful to have no matter what level of privacy you want to maintain.	2003-03-12
US	51847664	RJAUFR41EOAC2	0345327624	485572921	The Cross-Time Engineer (Adventures of Conrad Stargard, Book 1)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A wonderful tale of fantasy, history and science fiction!	I started reading this series with the second book the High-Tech Knight and only realized that I missed the first book after reading the third.  It doesn't matter though as Frankowski's writing holds up very well throughout this series right up until the last two books which accelerate quickly downhill.<br />This book tells the tale of Conrad Stargard's (nee Schwartz) inadvertent journey back through time to medieval Poland.  He there finds himself put upon to use his preponderant knowledge of engineering (and future events) to change the course of history. While he enjoys the comforts of the time (ahem) he also works to improve the lifestyle of all the people that surround him.  In the process of making friends he also makes several enemies which engenders more than a few exciting moments.<br />The mixing of the future and the past makes for a tantalizing tale of fantasy, history and science fiction come together.  This book starts it all and is well worth the effort to obtain as the information given here is referenced in several of the following books.<br />I have every single one of these books and excepting the last two books (Lord Conrad's Lady, only average, and Conrads Search for Rubber, which really should be avoided at all costs) they are all exceptional works.	2000-12-04
US	51847664	R20CO6E7V474EP	0345368509	631028587	Conrad's Quest for Rubber (Adventures of Conrad Stargard)	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Really just terribly and unfortunately bad.	How the mighty have fallen. With this book Frankowski's series has reached a new low. Lord Conrad's Lady was only average and should have been the end of this saga.<br />This book really isn't worth bothering with. Much of the book is told from the point of view of another character as some of the other reviewers here have indicated. This in and of itself isn't a bad thing as the High-Tech Knight did much the same to great success. Unfortunately, the rehashing of the past novels from this new character's point of view doesn't work nearly as well. In the High-Tech Knight there was one book's events to rehash, in this one there are five! <br />Frankowski has always displayed a bit of a libidinous side with Conrad having many different conquests in each of the books. I really didn't find that particularly wrong or out of hand. In this book though he goes totally overboard with genetically engineered beings from the future and a bunch of other wacky sexual situations that add nothing to the story. Whatever titilating aspects people derive from all this, are lost on me at this point.<br />The story overall is something of a disappointment with an awful ending that amounts to pushing a reset button to take away all the nasty aspects of the past hundred pages. Some people may find this way of magically putting us into a happy ending satisfying, but I really felt like I had wasted my time as most of the events of the book ended up having no significance.<br />The whole point of the series has been lost, that being Conrad's addition of new technology to history and his use of his knowledge of future history to make significant changes. This book just throws most of that out the window in favor of technological contrivances from the future that make everything else insignificant. Very disappointing overall.	2000-12-04
US	51847664	RZ6AZ9BV96DTW	0812524969	329457260	Beowulf's Children	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Different than the first, but still very good!	I picked up The Legacy of Heorot the predecessor to this book a few months ago and read it thinking that it was a standalone piece.  While browsing for books I found this sequel and grabbed it up having enjoyed the first book.  Obviously, if you haven't read the first book go check out the reviews for it before reading any further.<br />The second book picks up about twenty years give or take after the events of the first.  The next generation has grown into their own and are faced with the fact that their parents are much too cautious in exploring their adopted homeworld.  Their parents, the characters from the first book, have built up their own system for making decisions.  This takes into consideration their experiences with Grendals in the first book and the fact that most to varying degree were affected by their trip to the planet in hibernation.  In the words of their children they have ice on their minds.<br />The new generation of children includes some that were embryos brought from earth born from artificial wombs.  These children were raised among the colonists without a strict mother and father.  The standout among these now grown bottle babies is Aaron Tragon.  His leadership of the new generation is what sends them out to explore the unknown main continent.<br />Cadmann Weyland and the original group of colonists struggle to deal with the differing attitudes of this new generation which leads to conflict.  The hostile nature of the planet itself comes into play as well giving this book a tense edge as after having seen the events of the first book the reader is left wondering what other dangers lurk on the main continent.  When those dangers come to the fore they make for exciting and fascinating moments.<br />Overall the book is well thought out and a very good continuation of the previous storyline.  Niven always seems to do his best work partnered with others, Pournelle and Barnes being the two that he has worked with the most.  This book is no exception to this, although the focus on the hedonism of the younger generation doesn't seem to have much of a point and doesn't really go anywhere except to possibly outline the cultural differences between the Earthborn and Starborn.  Other than that the book is tight and well crafted.  I actually found it to be better than the first one overall.<br />The book's central conflict is resolved well, but there seems to be room for another sequel.  Hopefully we will see that soon.<br />I'd probably give the book 4.5 stars as the original would get 4 and this one is slightly better.	2000-11-30
US	51847664	R3UOU13YSMQ6BA	0671009257	539857157	Ship of the Line (Star Trek: the Next Generation)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Diane Carey can do better and has.	This is a Star Trek the Next Generation novel. It was the last book that I finished before I got the idea into my head to do book reviews so that is why it comes first in the review list.   Diane Carey is a fixture in the  Star Trek novel universe, and in this novel she has taken on the task of  filling some of the gaps between the first Next Generation movie  Generations and the second First Contact. The book purports on the cover to  be the story of the first voyage of the Enterprise-E. That would be the  monster new ship in the First Contact movie that nearly gets Borgified for  all you non-Trek people. Carey has told some interesting tales of the Star  Trek universe, but I'm afraid this one comes up a bit lacking on the whole.  <br />First, while this is ostensibly the story of the Enterprise-E's first  voyage it is also several other stories. The book starts out in 2278, which  is the time period of the first Star Trek series. We are introduced to  Captain Morgan Bateson, his crew and their ship the U.S.S. Bozeman a small  border patrol vessel whose duty is to patrol the border between the Klingon  Empire and Federation, as during this time period they are at war. Via an  encounter with a surprise Klingon attack which lead to an encounter with a  cosmic mishap, the Bozeman is unfortunately displaced in time to the year  2368, which coincidentally happens to be the exact time period that a Next  Generation novel should be set in! By sheer luck the Bozeman encounters the  Enterprise-D and Captain Jean-Luc Picard and crew by almost running into  them as they appear out of the time vortex. Bateson and crew have to now  live with the harsh reality that they have been displaced a lifetime into  the future. <br />Fast forward three years. The Enterprise-D is kibble and the  new Enterprise-E has been built and the construction team has been headed  by none other than the time-displaced Morgan Bateson with his crew along to  help out. Captain Picard is having doubts about his motivations for  commanding the new ship, and Bateson gets to captain the shakedown cruise  of the new Enterprise with Riker along reluctantly as first officer while  Picard goes on a special mission to the Cardassian empire to look into  finding the crews of several missing Federation ships. Got that? Yeah, one  of the main problems with this book is that there are probably one or two  too many plotlines. The storylines are that Bateson and his crew don't fit  in, Picard is a bit traumatized after the Enterprise-D took a header into a  planet, there are Federation crews gone missing (we even get little  vignettes from their perspective as well so that we can feel for them),  Riker has to go along with Bateson whom he doesn't like on the  Enterprise-E's shakedown cruise. Then throw in some Klingons from the past  and chaos ensues. <br />I won't spoil the ending for you, but I will say that  there is much too much going on for just one book. We get Picard's  perspective of course, and we get Riker's, Bateson's, Klingon antagonist's,  Cardassian antagonist's, Federation captives, and a few others thrown in as  well. You can't identify with these people's problems because you get about  a minute of reading time before the book switches to the next plot and  character. The plotlines and conflicts of course have to be resolved by the  end of the book (as in all Star Trek episodes) so everything gets tied up  way too quickly and neatly at the end. Actually, until I got to the end and  everything was resolved in the span of about pages 20 pages I thought the  book was going okay, but it seems that Ms. Carey ran out room and had to  tidy up a bit quick. All the plotlines wrapped up much too abruptly in a  very tv episode fashion. I think the pressure of writing a novel that takes  place right before a movie, where the characters have to end up a certain  way at the outset of said movie ruined this book. The epilogue is actually  set a few moments before the Borg attack that leads off the First Contact  movie.  <br />The short summary is, the book is an okay read, it moves along  quickly, but ends badly, resolving everthing in a cut and dried manner that  is quite clumsy.  <br />You would be much better off reading some of Carey's  other Star Trek novels. Dreadnought and Final Frontier come to mind as two  novels that I think are much better than this one. <br />2-1/2 stars out of 5	1999-10-01
US	51847664	R3VZW4QEBC8B7A	0812508645	216137473	Pastwatch: The Redemption of Christopher Columbus	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not quite as good as Ender's Game but worth a look.	Orson Scott Card is not one for taking on light airy subject matter in his novels. His Ender books hypothesized the fate of a boy manipulated into becoming the destroyer of an entire race of beings. Another series of books  envisioned the journey of humanity back to an Earth that they destroyed  millennia before.  In one of his latest novels Pastwatch (I'll dispense  with the subtitle), he envisions a humanity that almost destroyed itself  through pollution, overpopulation, and deforestation. Then they realized  the error of their ways, so they stopped throwing things away, chopping  down trees and evidently started using birth control. Hallelujah! Along the  way they also invented a way to look into the past. So while the Earth and  humanity were recovering from the previous devastation, humanity was also  re-examining the past, looking for all the things that were thought lost  forever. <br />So was born Pastwatch, the organization dedicated to  rediscovering the past. Card takes us through the lives of people that are  intricately linked to that organization and its discoveries. We also see  through the eyes of one of these people, as they look into the past, the  life of Christopher Columbus and his fate as discoverer of the new world.  We come to find out that Columbus is the person ultimately responsible for  the destruction wrought upon the Earth, that is only in Pastwatch's time  being repaired. <br />Card delivers multiple characters that he fills with  breadth and life, although they aren't formed really well until the latter  half of the book. The examinations of Columbus I found more tedious than  the present day characters that he uses, but for the books premise to  succeed we do need to understand Columbus' motivations, at least as Card  envisions them. Card succeeds beautifully in examining history in this  novel and in concocting a believable and highly satisfying conclusion to a  well crafted story. A bit melancholy at the end, but nonetheless it isquite a novel. <br />Overall it is tightly written, with the Columbus portions  lagging a bit. The overall premise to the book, that of redeeming Columbus,  is sound and while at times certain assumptions are made that seem a little  contrived, they work to keep the overall plot moving along successfully. I  would give more detail about that, but it would serve to spoil certain  surprises. I would not categorize this as hard SF, more of a modern fantasy  with SF trappings along for the ride, the technology is never really  spelled out for you, it is a vehicle for the storytelling.  <br />4 out of 5  stars	1999-10-01
US	51847664	RVJ2BHFCOAXT4	0553578790	754763007	Vision of the Future (Star Wars: The Hand of Thrawn, Book 2)	Books	2	6	9	N	N	This book is not very good at all.	I'm going to go out on a limb here and say that there have probably been a few too many pieces of Star Wars material put out in the last five or so years.  Lucas has even said as much in interviews that he has given.  Why  do these Star Wars tie-ins continue?  Because idiots like me continue to  buy into them.  I bought this latest Timothy Zahn book once it came out in  paperback.  I justify my purchases by not buying the ridiculously  overpriced hardcover versions of these things.  This is the second book in  a series of two which considering the second book was 700 pages long could  probably have easily been made into a series of three.  Yes, another  masterwork by that impresario of Star Wars, Timothy Zahn.  Basically, Zahn  has made his name off of doing these books.  He got the privilege of doing  the first of these new Star Wars books to be published and of course it was  a bestseller, even though it wasn't very good, because people had endured a  drought of Star Wars material for about ten years.  Now Zahn, an average  writer at best, is lauded for his masterwork with the Star Wars series.   Whatever. <br />The post Return Of The Jedi plot line which Zahn and all the  other writers work in is becoming tiresome to say the least.  Lucas as far  as I know has never acknowledged any of these stories to be anywhere close  to his vision, the only reason these books are allowed to continue is  because he has no desire to continue the series after Jedi.  Of course,  there are the hefty royalties that he collects as well.  This current story  line is set nineteen years after the first Star Wars film.  Great, so what?   Well, once again the New Republic is in trouble, a couple of Imperial  remnants have managed to cook up a scheme to bring back the dead Grand  Admiral Thrawn by using an impersonator and round up the remaining  Imperials for one last strike at the New Republic.  At the center of the  plot are the Bothan people mentioned in passing for their spying abilities  in Jedi.  Some Bothans have been revealed to be responsible for the  destruction of a peaceful world called Caamas.  They gave the Empire codes  to open up Caamas' planetary shield so that the Empire could destroy their  planet (I guess this was pre-Death Star).  Anyway, a lot of the races of  the New Republic are up in arms about the situation, quite literally  actually, as Bothan supporters and detractors have surrounded the Bothan  planet in a tense standoff.  Meanwhile our heroes are off looking for a  document that contains the names of all the Bothans that conspired with the  Empire in this heinous deed, so they can implicate them instead of all the  Bothans.  Luke though is off on a quest to find Mara Jade, the former  Emperors Hand that is now his friend and occasional companion, she has  disappeared on an unexplored planet.  There are several other plotlines  going on in the book which really are not of note, but some actually relate  to the aforementioned plots.  If none of this makes sense to you, go ahead  and read the first book in this series and all the rest of the post Jedi  novels as you won't have an inkling who some of these characters are  without said context.  Also, this book makes very little sense even with  all that context so you might as well just keep on reading anyway. <br />Zahn  has one of the more annoying styles of writing that writers with way too  many characters tend to employ.  He writes several pages using a character  or set of characters and then will switch to the next character and  situation and then the next and the next and so on until he returns back to  character and situation number one.  This can be done, but not easily, and  it doesn't make for a book that flows very well, and usually it requires  cohesive elements linking each character and situation and a very good  ending that ties all the disparate situations together.  Neither of these  are present here.  Some of the plot lines occurring in this book seemso  far removed from each other that they could have been written into another  book.  Take for instance the Luke and Mara sub-plot.  This has no real  connection to the other parts of the story at all.  There are only the  thinnest strands that connect this portion of the story in some way to the  rest of the book and then only half-heartedly at the end and in vague  reference in the middle of the book. <br />The other problem besides all the  plots flying around is that the overall plot and therefore the sub-plots  are just plain uninteresting.  The Star Wars characters that we know and  love have been reduced to absolute stinking wretched levels of boring  stupid caricature.  Zahn's portrayal of Luke Skywalker is even more wooden  and uninteresting than Mark Hamill's was.  Is that possible?  Read and find  out, or don't and save yourself some time and aggravation.  A testament to  how boring and uninteresting the overall plot of this series is, is that  the whole thing is resolved in the span of about three paragraphs at the  end of this book.  <br />I think, unfortunately, that these books are some  sort of lead in to another big plot that Zahn has in mind for another  series of books, as there are several threads left hanging at the end of  the book with heavy foreshadowing.  If Zahn had been smart he would have  chopped about three hundred pages out of this book and either put it into  another book or thrown it in the trash and then it could have been  something tolerable.  As it is, all I can say is, where are the editors  when you need them? <br />1.5 out of 5	1999-10-01
US	51847664	RZZHFRTPJ277S	0671008803	755801273	Spectre (Star Trek)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Shatner or Kirk, who is this character?	Another Trek novel.  Yes, I just can't get enough of these.  They are kind of like the Bud Lite of SF, they go down easy and after you have read about five of them you don't notice the bad taste they sometimes leave in their  wake. <br />Well, I am a Star Trek fan and after reading Shatner's Get A Life  book I do find myself with a bit of affection for the potbellied former  Captain of the Enterprise.  Unfortunately while this book has good pacing  and has a bevy of interesting characters, I often didn't feel like I was  seeing Kirk portrayed properly.  It feels like Shatner is exploring his own  feelings about age and love more and more with the Kirk character.  There  are endless scenes in the book where we find Kirk mooning over his love for  Teilani, the exotic Klingon, Romulan hybrid that Kirk fell in love with in  past books.  In fact much of what motivates Kirk in the book is his endless  love for this woman.  That's all fine and dandy, but really, that isn't the  Kirk that we have known up till now.  In the The Return and Avenger, Kirk  wasn't this dreamy eyed, (granted in one of those he was the brainwashed  pawn) this book takes this to a whole new level.  That said and done it was  probably the main thing that irked me about the book, that and the ending.  <br />The beginning of the novel finds Kirk trying to settle down with  Teilani, but she convinces him that he needs to go out and explore some  more and find out whether he really wants to settle down with her or not.   Of course, Kirk agrees to this and goes off to a few Starfleet functions to  shoot the breeze with his old comrades in arms.  While he is attending said  functions he is kidnapped by mysterious forces.  Cut to the Enterprise-E  where Picard seems to have found the Voyager, the ship thought lost in the  Delta Quadrant, or is it?  <br />The story gets a bit twisted and convoluted  from there.  It brings back the Mirror Universe plot-line which was first  explored in the original Star Trektelevision show.  Later the idea was  further explored on episodes of Deep Space Nine and in other books  including Dark Mirror by Diane Duane.  While the ideas are a rehash, the  plot is engaging and fast moving.  Picard and his crew seem thrown in and  aren't used very effectively, but then again what would you expect when  Shatner writes a Star Trek novel?  Of course Kirk gets top billing.  There  are quite a few characters that make a return in this novel including  Spock, Scotty and Mccoy.  Talk about the geriatric patrol.  Amazingly,  through luck, good breeding or just plain stubbornness they have all been  able to survive into the time of the Next Generation.  While the plot moves  along there are a lot of melodramatic moments from Kirk either reminiscing  about how good it is to be back with his crew or about his love for  Teilani.  <br />The book is fast paced with a lot of action, it did keep me  turning the pages, but the Kirk melodrama and some cookie cutter characters  (read Next Generation) thrown into the mix bring the book down a few  notches.  Also just an FYI the ending is a \\"to be continued\\" one.  So if  you were thinking about picking this up in paperback, you might want to  wait until the sequel Dark Victory is out so you can get the whole story.  <br />3 out of 5  Bias:   +1 if you are a rabid Star Trek fan.  -1 if you hate  Kirk or Shatner.	1999-10-01
US	51847664	R2S6BN7DU6NN52	0446392308	187439869	Healing Back Pain: The Mind-Body Connection	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	This book has helped me and others I have loaned it to.	While there is no one magic solution for all people, there will always be people that cannot accept the state that they are in or want to discount information just because they don't want to believe it.  <br />This book will deliver the goods, if you are willing to accept it for what it is, a tool, a piece of information to be used for your benefit.  <br />Dr. Sarno's information may be obvious to some (I see a few comments above), but for most it isn't and even if it is, having someone tell it to you in this form seems to work for many people. <br />My father and Aunt have read this book and it helped them get rid of their chronic back pain and this is how I first heard of it.  I then gave this book to a friend who would at odd times experience excruciating lower back pain that would incapacitate her, after reading the book the pain went away and has not returned.  After helping my friend I never expected to need the book myself, but one day I realized that the shoulder pain that I would occasionally experience might be related to what the book talks about, so I decided to read it.  My pain gradually went away over a period of a week and while I occasionally get a twinge now and then I never experience these symptoms for very long or with the intensity that I used to have them.  This is not the miracle cure-all, go to your doctor first.  It has worked for me, my friends, and my family.  END	1998-10-26
