US	51854558	R3AB6D7QIWSPR4	0684870568	713170115	Born to Buy: The Commercialized Child and the New Consumer Culture	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Well-Organized Examination of an Important Social Concern	Julie B. Schor's Born to Buy offers an in-depth examination of the way marketers target minors.  (Inexplicably, between hardback and soft cover it lost its subtitle: \\"The Commercialized Child and the New Consumer Culture.\\")  Some of it was enlightening; some of it was shocking; most of it was convincing; all of it was pretty interesting.  Schor may be a bit too speculative about the impact of commercialization from time to time, but even so she has the potential to spark dialogue, which is something society sorely needs in respect to the way we're brainwashing our children.  I live in a consumer-savvy household.  I've been educating my son since he was old enough to watch commercial television about the aims of marketers and the ways commercials mislead you.  Even so he's a patsy for every slick snake-oil salesman that comes along.  And it is disturbing that while I myself choose what to expose him to on television and in magazines that he reads at home, he might be forced to sit through advertisements in his classroom with no one to offer a balanced perspective on advertiser claims.  The halls of junior academia should most decidedly be safe zones, and commercial enterprises should not be allowed to bribe our educators into subverting the public trust.  Anyway, enough with my soap box.  Schor is better positioned on hers.<br /><br />I'd give this one 4.5 stars if Amazon would let me. Since it won't, I'll overlook what I perceive as minor weaknesses because they have little impact to the overall appeal and influence of the work.	2005-10-11
US	51854558	R3417S6W4D9O5E	0345448413	758174744	The Mask of Red Death	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Series Maintains High Style and Adventure	Harold Schechter's Edgar Allen Poe mystery series is one of my favorites, and I was pleased to find the third one just as engrossing as its predecessors.  The books, written in the first person, freely adopt Poe's literary style--sometimes to comedic effect.  Schechter does poke affectionate fun at Poe now and again, but not at the cost of dehumanizing the character.  His Poe feels like a warm and admirable (if pretentious and squeamish) human being. Schechter, who is more commonly known as the writer of many above average historical true crime books, handles the adventure adroitly, too.  For the full flavor, I would recommend that new readers begin with Nevermore.  While the books could be taken out of order (if not without losing some context), Nevermore is powerful at establishing Poe as a character and really shouldn't be missed.	2005-09-18
US	51854558	R23KRWX7HI71ZE	0439650755	462172654	Gregor and the Prophecy of Bane (The Underland Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Destined to become a classic	I thought the same thing about the first one: this book deserves to be recognized as one of the finest books of children's fiction in recent years.  I don't generally pick up books in hardback, but after reading Gregor the Overlander, the first in the series, I had to get this. Like its predecessor, it deals with a fantastic voyage in a mysterious land with very high stakes. Gregor's adventures may bring him face to face with giant talking cockroaches and rats, but they're very serious novels nevertheless. Gregor has to grapple not only with external dangers, but with internal as well--deciding what kind of person he desires to be. Moving adventures with a lot of heart, they're worthy additions to the bookshelf of any child--or adult.	2005-09-18
US	51854558	R1XWY4DPWYHV2A	0312291450	427787085	If Chins Could Kill: Confessions of a B Movie Actor	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Excellent Biography Explores Cult Movie & TV	Like a lot of people, I've had enormous good will for Bruce Campbell since first seeing The Evil Dead, probably one of the best \\"Spam in a Cabin\\" movies ever made.  For one reason or another, I never got around to picking this up in hardback...and I hate to say it, but I'm so glad I didn't.  Don't misunderstand me: the book is fantastic.  It's well written with a light conversational style and offers quite an interesting amount of insight into Campbell and his coterie and also into the film and television industries in general.  But those of you who read this book hot off the presses missed the substantial addendum Campbell added for the paperbook, which offers an equally interesting look at his book signing tour.  It's definitely worth going back for.  And if you haven't read the book in any edition, you ought to.	2005-09-07
US	51854558	R10N6FQMGUSDPK	0764578278	216590107	Frommer's Sweden (Frommer's Complete Guides)	Books	3	29	29	N	Y	Valuable Tourist Guide, but not completely reliable	I've been waffling over whether or not to review Frommer's Sweden (4th edition; April 2005), since I didn't actually go everywhere in Sweden that Frommer covered.  But I feel compelled to point out some of the shortcomings I experienced in this book.  First, while I understand that information is subject to rapid change, we should assume some of it remains stable: like the location of hotels.  After exiting the tunnelbana, we followed Frommer's map to find our hotel.  I became alarmed when we passed another hotel which, according to Frommer's map, should not have been anywhere near where it was.  But it did prepare me to reach the x marking our spot to find out that our hotel was nowhere to be found.  Fortunately I had the street address on our confirmation, because the hotel turned out to be in the opposite direction and less than a block away from our arrival point.  Nor was this the book's only failing...and I might not have known that if we were not in Sweden visiting a native.  The book's guide to customs on tipping was incorrect.  The number they provide for emergencies in \\"Fast Facts: Sweden\\" (p. 51) (equivalent to 911 in the US) has been out of date since 1996.  (Frommers does, oddly, give the correct number in some other sections.)  The Stockholm Waterfestival they list for August has not been held since, as near as I can determine, the late 90s.<br /><br />I don't mean to suggest the book is worthless.  We did get a lot of value out of it, in both Stockholm and Visby.  But I want to strongly caution those who wish to use this book to be prepared to adjust if they encounter these errors or others of which I am unaware.  And, in an emergency, dial 112.	2005-09-07
US	51854558	R7BRFBE46CW0D	0741405563	328081149	The Dead	Books	4	48	51	N	Y	Not Necessarily for your standard horror fan...	OR your standard fan of religious fiction, but it's likely to be highly effective for its particular niche.<br /><br />Having recently had my first taste of zombie written fiction, I decided to pick up Mark E. Roger's The Dead based on the recommendation of a friend.  I didn't fully understand what I was getting into, and I have to admit I felt somewhat duped when I first started reading.  For me, religion is serious business.  Zombie fiction is not.  Finding out that the zombie book I'd just picked up was coming at me from the pulpit, as it were, was a little like walking into a Halloween haunted house and finding out a local church was just trying to score some pro-life points.  It's sneaky and not especially nice.  I have to admit, though, that the book won me over.  There are long passages that clearly exist simply to proselytize and speeches given by characters that seem far too organized to occur ex tempore.  But they were, if not especially realistic, thought provoking and well-written.  Badly edited, but well-written.<br /><br />The horror in this novel is secondary to its purpose: to make you question your preparation for the end of the world. If you're okay with that, you may find yourself enjoying the book as much as I did.	2005-09-05
US	51854558	R1F4AYTJHK60EB	0060742305	461394909	What an Earl Wants	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Light tone & subject with a deep moral	Sometimes I feel like if you piled all the romance novels released in a year you could practically reach the moon.  It must be a bit of a nightmare for voracious romance readers with limited budgets.  It's not that pleasant for people like me, either, who are extremely particular in our romance reading tastes.  Historical romantic comedy is one of the subgenres that I enjoy, but even within that subgenre there's a lot more material out there than good material.  Shirley Karr's What an Earl Wants fits into my definition of good material.  The basic premise: a woman of impoverished gentility masquerades as a man so she may take the position of secretary to a war-wounded earl.  Premise nothwithstanding, if you decide to pick up the novel, don't come to it expecting slapstick--or, at least, not very much.  The earl's inability to hold on to employees does tend a bit to farce.  But while the novel doesn't have much by way of laugh-out-loud material, it does have warm, plausible characters, a few serious situations, and some really heart-warming moments.  The message--look beneath the surface--is not unusual for the genre.  But what is unusual is the subtext laced from top to bottom in this work: banding together diminishes the challenge of overcoming adversity.	2005-09-05
US	51854558	R2KIG2BOZ1CR44	0671014501	931078140	Fatal : The Poisonous Life of a Female Serial Killer	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	Excellent Social History & Psychological Crime Study	English professor Harold Schechter has replaced Ann Rule in my heart as the Lord of True Crime Writing, but don't go to him expecting a lurid account of the crime du jour.  He's going to give you an account of the crimes of yesterday.  Fatal focuses on the criminal career of Jane Toppan, who began killing circa 1890.  Schechter, also the writer of an extremely engaging series of murder mysteries starring Edgar Allen Poe, provides extensive detail in his thoroughly researched works.  I don't read Ann Rule anymore; the true crime genre rather lost my interest years ago.  But I like Schechter's histories almost as much as I like his fictions.  I don't know that I'd personally consider Fatal his finest book, but it was still very well done and of interest on many levels--not only for the criminal psychology of its subject, but also for the culture that bred her, sheltered her and finally condemned her.  Check it out.  And then, if you haven't already, give Deranged and Depraved a try...and move on to Nevermore, first in his Poe mysteries.	2005-09-05
US	51854558	R2M9I8A5A12XSW	1400049628	62089075	The Zombie Survival Guide: Complete Protection from the Living Dead	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Engrossing book defies simple categorization	While classed as \\"humor,\\" this book takes itself very seriously.  It adopts its own mythos to explain the possibility and periodic appearance of zombies and covers all manner of survival rules--from what kind of supplies to stockpile, where to hole up, what weapons work best against the shambling masses.  For the most part, I found it fascinating.  The least appeal for me was in the history of zombie attacks presented at the end.  My main pleasure was in considering Brooks' theories on why schools make good shelters and malls do not (not for the same reason Romero suggests) or why this weapon is superior to that one.  A lot of thought went into this, and reading it really fired my imagination.  If you enjoy \\"what if\\" scenarios, then you might enjoy this one, too--but don't come to it expecting slapstick just because it's in the humor section.  I'm easily amused, but only once or twice did this book inspire me to laugh out loud.  I am recommending it to my friends, but not without some caveats.	2005-08-28
US	51854558	R10RLVKVHQOF3	0843952016	34858117	The Rising	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Gripping  and Gory Adventure with Heart	I got this book by accident.  I picked up the sequel in a bookstore, not realizing that it was a sequel, and was slightly put out to have to go back and pick up the first before I could read it.  I am not a major reader of horror fiction, and a book about zombies seemed to me to have the potential to read like a novelization of the latest Living Dead flick.  This one surprised me--it reads like a novelization of the offspring of the latest Living Dead flick and the first Evil Dead.  But don't take that as a bad thing.  It was an extremely engrossing read.  I stuck with it through all manner of chores and other activities that would usually distract me from my book du jour.  I became involved with characters I suspected to be doomed.  I was intrigued by the unusual development of what is fast becoming one of hollywood's favorite horror staples.  There were more than a few points of predictability in the story, but the book was more than good enough to compensate for these.<br /><br />Caveat: although this is really a character driven story, the horror here is graphic and extensive.  Don't pick it up if you can't stomach that kind of thing.  I recommend, but I also recommend you have the sequel--The City of the Dead--at hand before this one ends.	2005-08-05
US	51854558	R120C7VOLN2VW1	0060732067	646046789	Much Ado About You (Essex Sisters, book 1)	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	A Solid Entry from a Unique Romance Author	Romance novelists tend to work on a familiar (and effective) formula with just a few variations--boy meets girl to boy gets girl with a wrinkle or two to slow their progress along the way.  Eloisa James is quite comfortably settled within this convention, but separated from the herd by her attention to the other people who make up her hero & heroine's lives.  She's not the first romance novelist to create a stable of characters from which to draw--siblings, friends or cousins who may be married off in future volumes.  She's not the only romance novelist to put effort into creating a memorable supporting cast.  But she does give unusual weight to this supporting crew.  Whether they're there to bar the romance, advance the romance, offer their opinions on it, or even exist indifferently to it as they go on about their own lives, they feel important not only to the plot, but also to the hero and heroine.  This adds a dimension of reality to her novels, usually without detracting from the story of the central characters at all.  In my opinion (which I know differs from some readers), it doesn't detract here.  This first novel in a new series has a heavy load to character establishing a number of new characters (and revisiting a few from earlier series).  But James has made these introductions integral to the story.  Lucius may not always be top in Tess' thoughts, but the chaos of her sisters' lives as they are removed from their familiar environment feels essential to her personal development.  They are the road she travels to a romance that is solid and sometimes very sensual.<br /><br />James, like similar novelist Julia Quinn, writes more in the vein of Jane Austen than Samuel Richardson.  If you're looking for edge-of-the-seat excitement in a romance novel, for serious obstacles to true love, for memorable villains and earth-shaking passions, you aren't going to find them here. What she gives you is a warm love story--between a girl and a boy; between a girl and her sisters; even between a boy and his friends.her sisters; even between a boy and his friends.	2005-08-05
US	51854558	RGPE7TWZTIWV8	0843954159	160204437	City of the Dead	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Satisfying & Exciting; Mondo on the Gore	This sequel to The Rising doesn't exactly pick up where its predecessor left off--it actually starts a few minutes before, a handy recap I suppose for those who experience a timelag between the reading of these two books, which are more like halves of the same volume than discrete stories.  I would not recommend reading this one without having read the one that comes before.<br /><br />This one is perhaps a little more complicated and slightly less engaging than its predecessor, but it remains very entertaining.  Keene has taken the zombie genre into some interesting alternate directions, drawing inspiration perhaps from the Italian zombie masters or from Sam Raimi's Evil Dead series.  I admire the way he balances his apocalyptic subject matter with his highly sympathetic cast.  There's plenty of mayhem here (and extremely graphic mayhem at that), but the story still has a heart.	2005-08-05
US	51854558	R3OX40C12R3D6O	0060013133	123160839	Going Postal: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Warm, Witty & Engaging--perhaps even for first time readers	What I really love about Terry Pratchett is how warm his fiction is.  Funny is good; I like funny.  But more than that I like how much I care about his characters.  That's not always easy to pull off in comedy, particularly prose.  In a visual medium, you can soften the edges of slapstick or repartee with body language.  In prose, it takes skill and subtlety to pull it off without undermining the humor.<br /><br />I found _Going Postal_ particularly engaging.  There is a sense of urgency to this plot that kept me flipping pages.  Pratchett is always a light read because of his style (not for lack of substance), but I finished this one in record time.<br /><br />For the most part, I imagine I'll be preaching to the choir, but on the off chance that someone unfamiliar with Pratchett should stop by I'll note that this particular book should present no great challenges to readers unfamiliar with the Discworld series.  I have read them piecemeal myself, picking certain characters I admire most and following their stories, so I know what it is to encounter a concept or a character that is unknown.  I believe most readers could get quickly up to speed in this story, though of course fans familiar with the series will enjoy textures that escape you. If this is your first Discworld novel, don't let it be your last.  They build on each other to form an alternate world as rich as it is funny.	2005-07-28
US	51854558	R3R5AVVB4Y9YH	006053124X	44138711	It's In His Kiss (Bridgertons)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Solid Romance novel but not Quinn's best	Quinn is one of my favorite romance writers. Without undue flattery, she is often compared to Jane Austen. She won my heart through her ability to create warm, likeable characters with quick wits. I've come to expect many laugh out loud moments while reading her books...but, unfortunately, I didn't get too many of those here. This novel doesn't demonstrate her at her best. In my opinion, the tension between characters is what makes or breaks a romance--not just the sexual chemistry, but the evolution of relationship. There must be some reason that two people are drawn together, and, to sustain the typical romance arc, held apart. Hyacinth and Gareth--plausible characters, both, and Gareth at least has an interesting backstory--fall together rather naturally and placidly. The obstacles which must be overcome between them are not particularly compelling. Neither, in my opinion, is the passion that inspires them to try. It isn't that I disliked the novel or that I wouldn't recommend it. It was pleasant; it was a good read; it was just not up to Quinn's usual standards. She can do better. And I hope she will, with her next installment.	2005-07-28
US	51854558	R6M7DHJPHWUME	0763622591	349876476	Feed	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Dense, Rich, Painful & Fulfilling	Feed by M.T. Anderson is one of those books you just devour, cheesy pun completely necessary.  It's a seductive book, a moral in a sweet candy shell that turns bitter long after you've become addicted, when you're well and truly caught and neither willing nor able to break away.  What it says about consumerism and consumer culture is chilling and profound; the parasitic relationship it posits among the market, the marketers and the producers is fascinating particularly when least explicit.  (I find the brief image of a beaten boy in a kaftan sticking with me, even though his place in the novel is barely even implied.)  In short, this book knocked me down, but it did in a way that left me feeling blessed for it.<br /><br />How?  I credit the thoroughness of Anderson's imagined future.  It feels completely plausible and not that terribly far away.  The adolescents in his book use lingo that isn't like ours, but close enough.  You could imagine your grandchildren inventing that code, your children.  You could imagine embracing the technology at the heart of his dystopia.  And of particular importance, the people who populate the novel are familiar.  I see myself, my husband, my son.  I see half a dozen high school companions, a few people I knew in college.  I can't share their experiences, but I can mirror their feeling--and I can see the ways that their failures are predicated in my culture's, in mine.  Kudos to Anderson for making his lesson so easy to swallow--and making sure that the aftertaste lingers.	2005-07-24
US	51854558	R1GY8CM76E22XB	1885865430	614998276	NYMPH	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Lyrical YA Author on a Somewhat Unnecessary Foray	I picked up Block's first adult book out of curiosity to see how she'd handle the form.  I enjoy her lyricism and her quirkiness in her YA fiction.  I found this to be of a piece with her larger library.  In fact, if you spiced up her YA novels with some more explicit vocabulary, you could probably neatly drop a few segments of them in here without anyone being the wiser.  Block is not inexperienced in writing about sex.  The only difference here is the quantity and the language.<br /><br />These stories are interesting little character sketches--and creating interesting little characters is what Block does best.  They're not particularly erotic, in my opinion, primarily because the main characters are--in typical Block form--pretty darned sad.  Explicit sex aside, they're really more about romance, about loneliness and the need to connect, than they are about sensuality and sex.  Of course, that's not necessarily a bad thing.  Block does her schtick very well, and while it's more challenging for her to work her magic in the short short format she's set herself here, she manages to pull it off very cleverly, in part through the interlocking story schematic, which does allow her to squeeze a little extra character development into these tiny spaces.  Some of the stories are better than others as some of the characters are better than others, but the collection as a whole makes a good entry in the Block library.  The adult Block library.  Personally, though, I hope this is the last of this kind of thing Block feels the need to write.  Emotionally, there's nothing here that you can't get in her YA fiction, and her alienated characters I think have something so important to share with many of her young readers that it would be a shame to deprive them of it for the sake of a little explicit language and more graphically detailed sex.	2005-07-21
US	51854558	R1O4NX90NO6I9K	1556618662	520239903	The Shunning (Heritage of Lancaster County) (Book 1)	Books	2	68	79	N	N	Coincidence and convenience driven, characterization lacking	Obviously I am in the minority here, and this book has satisfied many a reader.  Since my experience differs, I've been trying very hard to figure out exactly why this novel disappointed me.  I think it comes down to the following:<br /><br />The biggest problem I had with this novel is that the character felt plot-driven rather than the plot character-driven.  A young Pennsylvania Amish woman struggles with a longing for a Fancy life. Plausible enough.  But the way events unfold in her engagement to a widowed bishop and in her discovery of her own mother's Deep Dark Secret all felt organized to suit the author's end goal (to sell a sequel?).  It's hard to say too much without risking spoiling the story.  But as I read, I found myself questioning repeatedly what kind of person would do the things that Katie did.  Certainly, we all want to be true to ourselves.  But how many of us have as spectacularly a poor sense of timing (either that or disregard for the feelings of others) as Katie does?  How many of us have that kind of knack for uncovering hidden objects at just the right time to move along the plot--not once, but twice?  While, remarkably, at the same time Outside Forces Are Converging in a mysterious black limousine?  In terms of the action, the story read like a soap opera, requiring a pretty high suspension of disbelief.  But character presentation did not match the soap opera pacing.  Emotionally flighty when required to be so by the plot, Katie was otherwise pretty stoic and rational.  If only her story had been.  The only things that kept me reading this novel to the end was an interest in the setting and a certain inoffensiveness in prose style.<br /><br />It didn't repel me, but it didn't draw me in, either.  I have absolutely no interest in finding out what happens to Katie next.	2005-07-21
US	51854558	R2XIK2WUWXY7CA	0385510349	315273625	Dating Is Murder: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Delightfully funny mystery	This follow-up to the tremendously entertaining _Dating Dead Men_ lives up to its predecessor.  These books are a cross between mystery and romance--or maybe chick-lit.  They have a light touch on the whole boy-meets-girl thing and a light touch on the whole somebody-goes-missing-or-gets-killed thing, and they have many, many laugh out loud moments.  Kozak's protagonist Wollstonecraft (Wollie) Shelley is a bit of a ditz, but she's warm and likeable and generally pretty plausible as a character.  The story is convoluted, but not unbelievably so.  I rather suspect that if I started investigating the disappearance of a German au pair, I'd find a lot of tangents myself.<br /><br />Kozak does a good job of combining humor with some genuinely creepy and disturbing mystery elements.  One scene in the book managed to be both gut-wrenching and amusing at the same time.  I was put off at first by the absence of the first novel's hero.  The romance element of the novels means you get invested in Wollie's boyfriends.  But I trusted that Kozak would make the ride pleasant anyway and offer me an equally attractive male foal point for this novel, and she didn't disappoint.  I look forward to seeing what Kozak does next.	2005-07-07
US	51854558	R36OSW04FOU7AC	0060524081	583097215	My Life Among the Serial Killers: Inside the Minds of the World's Most Notorious Murderers	Books	2	21	27	N	N	Sensationalist, lacking substance, poorly presented	Okay, so maybe the lurid title should have tipped me off, but given the description on the back of this book I was expecting something of considerably more scientific substance than I got.  Morrison is a forensic psychiatrist, purportedly one of the first women in the field (or perhaps the only, given her self-laudatory tone) and one of the world's foremost.  But she seems less interested in discussing the evolution of the serial killer and offering support for the theories she does put forth than in rehashing the details of these crimes.  Case in point, she spends a rather substantial chunk of her novel discussing the crimes of Gilles de Rais.  Her purported purpose is to demonstrate that serial killers are not a new phenomenon, but does one really need more than a sentence or two to establish this?  Her special insight comes from working directly with 80 serial killers.  Her work should focus on the ones she knows, not diverge into the stories of centuries dead killers like Gilles de Rais and Elizabeth Bathory.  Morrison doesn't have much to offer anyone who has done substantial reading on serial killers.  There's more information and insight into killers to be found in the thoroughly researched works of English professor Harold Schechter than in this tome even if he never met the killers involved.  And the books are better written, to boot.	2005-07-07
US	51854558	RRVZI0FW1DNQQ	0152052070	51283970	Wizard's Holiday: The Seventh Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Magic with Morals	The Young Wizard's Series, which began with 1983's _So You Want To Be a Wizard_, will probably remind readers more of Madeleine L'Engle or Ursula K. LeGuin than J.K. Rowling. In fact, Duane's wizards work somewhat like LeGuin's of Earthsea...changing the world through the use of a true language in which they cannot lie. Their powers are substantial; their responsibilities moreso.  To be a wizard in this universe really means something.  It's a privilege and a burden.<br /><br />Like L'Engle, Duane does not shy away from weighty moral issues.  This one, as deeply philosophical as the others in the series, investigates the question of pain and its purpose in evolution.  The adolescents at the core of these stories are excellent role models for readers, grappling early and often with what it means to be a hero in a world where you aren't always sure that you're doing the right thing.<br /><br />More than that, they offer an engaging read.  This book should hold plenty of attraction for older adolescents and adults--but I wouldn't start here.  Without familiarity with the characters and their lives, readers will miss much of the richness of the work.	2005-06-25
US	51854558	R2B67R1AJAD7FD	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Unique, Engaging, Deeply Moving	I picked up this book based on the enthusiastic recommendation of Entertainment Weekly. They didn't steer me wrong. A first person narrative from an autistic British boy, the book explores the mysterious murder of a neighbor's dog in a style so unique and engaging that I literally did not want to put it down. I really came to care about the protagonist, and the ending of the novel moved me to tears. (And prompted me to go spend some quality time with my kid.) Given the overall impact the book had, I feel a little churlish tossing complaints at it, but in the interest of accuracy I have to say that I felt the plot was a bit lacking. Some reviewers have complained that the story is underdeveloped. I don't share that concern; since we're looking through Christopher's eyes, it makes sense to me that he would focus on some elements and not others. But the solution to the mystery seriously disturbed for me the picture of the universe Christopher had established--and not in a particularly plausible way. Still and all, I thoroughly enjoyed this book for the character and the presentation alone, so I'm willing to overlook it.	2005-06-25
US	51854558	R1FUX87N73DD6T	0553587080	236523182	Haunted	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Another Facet in a Gem of a Series	Writers of serial fiction face a trap: readers fall in love with characters and want more and more of them, sometimes long after their stories are told, when the authors are forced to deviate further afield from their original vision to keep creating material.  Or, worse, they recycle.  Armstrong offers an alternative route, taking tangential characters and spinning them into their own story cycles.<br /><br />Those who have already read the Women of the Otherworld series have an idea what to expect.  Our heroine is plucky and powerful.  She's forced to face off against Evil in some form or the other to protect the ones she loves.<br /><br />But don't come to this expecting a cookie-cutter story based on similarities in essential plot.  Eve is not Paige; she's not Elena.  She is a compelling character with her own quirks and characteristics, and her story fits her well.  It's exciting and intriguing--old elements of adventure mixed with new types and definitions of magic.  For those jonesing for old favorite characters, take heart: many of them are here, some in major roles.  Armstrong knows we care about them and lets us keep an eye on them while we come to care about Eve.<br /><br />There's room for a multitude here.  Armstrong has created a grand playing field--werewolves and witches and half-demon ghosts, angels and nixies and who knows what's coming next?  Her novels convince me that she is author enough to handle the task of building this world and peopling it.  I am looking forward to the further development of Eve just as much as I anticipated earlier installments, and I also look forward to seeing which Woman of the Otherworld she'll choose to develop next.	2005-06-22
US	51854558	R20XQ1QT67OB1Z	0912517123	141525615	The Essential Handbook of Victorian Etiquette	Books	4	93	93	N	Y	Slim, interesting, basic and American	First point of reference: thought the title does not specify, Hill was American.  American etiquette of the period shared many common points with Victorian England, but not all.  If you're looking for a guide on proper British behavior, this is not it.<br /><br />Second: it's true that these are Thomas Hill's original words--but just a portion of them.  This book lifts just a fraction from several of Hill's manuals.  Some of the illustrations are original to Hill's works; others are Gibson illustrations randomly added throughout.  There are no reference notes.  This book may be great for casual interest, but for scholarly purposes it hasn't much to offer.<br /><br />It is interesting, however.  A good bit of this material will be familiar to anyone who reads much from or about the era, but there are some gems hidden here.  Hill's advise on what sorts of people make proper marriage partners is funny and says a lot about scientific misapprehensions of the age.  And his pronouncing it evidence of \\"ill-breeding\\" for young ladies to suck the handles of their parasol is pretty intriguing, casually dropped as it is among more obvious exhortations against eating on the street or whispering in public conveyances.<br /><br />Ultimately, the book is fun, but a little too slight to fully satisfy.  I can't help but wish that Thomas Edie Hill's original publications had been reproduced instead of excerpted.  For fans of etiquette and the Victorian era, those would be truly essential reading.<br /><br />This is a good way to pass a few hours, especially if picked up on discount.	2005-06-09
US	51854558	R1G1P9ZJHEWV4K	0553571656	899258075	The Beekeeper's Apprentice	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Start to a Series	There's some kind of chutzpah involved in creating an apprentice for arguably the greatest literary detective of all time, but Laurie King takes the plunge fearlessly--and she does it well.  The Sherlock Holmes that 15-year-old Marry Russell encounters is not entirely the Holmes of Arthur Conan Doyle's description, and King is unapologetic about that.  Her first person narrator announces flatly that Doyle's narrator, Watson, got it wrong.  But the Holmes that King creates is believable, intelligent, compelling--and an excellent mentor and foil for our young heroine.<br /><br />Some readers may miss the spirit that we find in Doyle or in many other classic mystery writers--Christie and Queen come to mind.  There is something satisfying in being presented with clues and offered an opportunity to solve the puzzles ourselves before being, like Watson, completely flummoxed by the ability of the detective to make connections we miss (that in retrospect are sometimes obvious).  At least this entry in the Mary Russell series is more passive entertainment.  We follow along with her development and the growing risks and challenges of her fledgling detective career.<br /><br />The story did not evoke edge-of-the seat excitement for me, but the smooth-flowing prose and interesting challenges the pair faced were more than enough to keep me reading and to encourage me to pick up the second book in the series.  I anticipate spending many happy hours in the borrowed and expanded world of Ms. King.	2005-06-09
US	51854558	R392C30Q7CJWJ0	0767921232	818206773	Dating Dead Men: A Novel	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Madcap Adventure; light on mystery, long on fun	The biggest complaint I have about this book is that I'm finished.  I decided to pick up one of Harley Jane Kozak's romantic comedy mysteries on the high recommendation of Entertainment Weekly.  From their review, I expected that the book would be competently written.  I didn't expect it to make me laugh out loud or to make me care for her characters quite so much.<br /><br />In that, I can see, I differ from some of Amazon's other reviewers.<br /><br />This book is definitely a hybrid, which may make it a challenge to fans of the traditional mystery.  It has many qualities of the romantic comedy.  In that guise, Kozak reads most to me like MaryJanice Davidson (without the vampires).  Of the other mystery writers I read, Kozak reminds me most of Joan Hess, particularly with Hess' Claire Malloy mysteries.  But we're not dealing with the slow meticulous gathering of clues common to the mystery genre--and which for many of us is the primary pleasure of the reading of that type.  From the start, this novel is a joyride, with some interesting scenery along the way.  Less Ellery Queen.  More Inspector Clouseau.  But without all the bumbling...and with a lot more focus on dating and shoes.<br /><br />Our heroine, Wollie Shelley, is warm and believable--larger than life, but--in my opinion--true to it.  Her relationship with her mentally ill brother (which propels the story) feels genuine, not exploitative.  Some of his symptoms may be cliche, but he is not--he is highly sympathetic.  Wollie's career goals and dreams feel integral, not window-dressing tossed in to simulate character depth.  As with many comic characters, she is often impulsive, but her impulsiveness doesn't seem contrived simply to move the plot along.  Her behavior seems of a piece with her personality.<br /><br />I plan to pick up the second Wollie Shelley mystery immediately.  If it's even half as much fun as this one, Kozak will have earned herself a loyal fan.	2005-05-27
US	51854558	R3PVT67LKPB7HV	0515138649	273244523	The Paid Companion	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Pleasant Book to Pass the Time	This Regency novel, which falls somewhere between a mystery and a romance, is written with a certain degree of skill, but not a lot of urgency.  Those looking for a compelling plot may find it fails to fulfill in either genre.  There's no sense of excitement to the mystery--nothing to engage our curiosity or get us guessing, since we're not really presented with any clues to solve ourselves.  It's basically just a pretext to bring the characters together so romance may bloom.  But there's not much by way of romantic complications for our leads to overcome, either.  Nor, truly, passion to inspire them.  They are suited to one another; they drift together.  So it goes.<br /><br />However, Eleonor and Arthur are likable characters, which is important if we're to root for their complacent & uncomplicated relationship.  And they're competent--which is important to me, personally, as I hate novels that rely for plot on Characters Doing Stupid Thing.  The dialogue is light; the plot progresses quickly enough.  The novel is neither deeply engrossing nor terribly satisfying, but it's not really boring, either. In my opinion, it's a decent enough summer read.	2005-05-24
US	51854558	RLK8P8GAG5BFP	0786929898	974997032	Extinction (Forgotten Realms: R.A. Salvatore's War of the Spider Queen, Book 4)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Overall Good Development	Opinion on this entry into the War of the Spider Queen series seems divided.  I come down on the side of those who much enjoyed Lisa Smedman's contribution.  Richard Baker's Condemnation was not much to my taste (though obviously necessary to follow the plot), but this one amped up my interest again.<br /><br />As with the other books in this series, I had to deal first with the jarring alteration of character presentation.  Each author obviously has his or her own perception of characters, and it can make them seem extremely different from book to book.  I'm starting to put this down to Drow chaos.  :)  On the plus side, Ryld is more interesting here than in any novel since the first, and Quenthel becomes more complex and intriguing.  I have less interest personally in the Menzoberranzan part of the story, much preferring to follow the transitions of Ryld and Halistra.<br /><br />My biggest problem with the character development in this book deals with the growing conflict between Pharaun and Quenthel.  Pharaun generally seems highly sensible through most of the story, but his antagonism of Quenthel (though nothing new) crosses the line of self-preservation by a mile and a half in this story.  And Quenthel, though often irrational, does seem smart enough to understand her own best interests too well to retaliate as she does.  These two do seem to be heading towards open confrontation, but their actions here smack very much of \\"cutting off your nose to spite your face.\\"<br /><br />There's no real big pay-off in this novel.  As others have noted, it is transitional, making necessary set-up for the conclusion.	2005-05-21
US	51854558	R15E36NZ7AL2P	0786930330	751567867	Insurrection (Forgotten Realms:  R.A. Salvatore's War of the Spider Queen, Book 2)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Enjoyable Read	My interest in this series is more related to Drow psychology and sociology than the adventure at the heart of the story, but I found myself drawn into the adventure anyway.  This one, like the first in the series (Dissolution, by Richard Lee Byers), has a strong stand-alone plot which makes for a satisfying read.  The characters are well enough established to generally avoid the pitfall of RPG-based fiction, which, when badly written, can be manned more by Character Classes than people.  Insurrection was a slow-starter for me, but generated increasing interest as I went and left me with more than enough momentum to carry me into book 3.<br /><br />The biggest problem I had with this book were the inevitable changes in perspective that you get when one author continues the work of another.  In Dissolution, I most enjoyed the relationship between Pharaun and Ryld.  The characters here feel not so much like they've been altered by the events of the first novel, but like they're not the same characters at all.  This is true more or less for all the characters.  What we're given is enjoyable enough, but lacks continuity.  After I got into this novel, though, I came to appreciate the different light Thomas Reid's perspective cast on them, and when I moved to the third book found I missed Reid's vision as much as I initially had Byers'.	2005-05-21
US	51854558	R1A9VQXKBSBSRG	0441012795	142764139	Dead as a Doornail (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 5)	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Entertaining Novel in a Superior Series	Dead as a Doornail offers the kind of entertaining reading I've come to expect from Charlaine Harris.  I consider myself a huge fan: while there are many authors I follow, Harris is the only one I routinely pick up in hardback.<br /><br />This novel is another above-average entry in the psychic-female-partnering-with-supernatural-men subgenre popularized by such as Laurell K. Hamilton and Christine Freehan.  Harris adds to the mix a hearty dose of southern color and a light seasoning of humor.  Sookie is refreshingly down-to-earth and overall nicely competent.<br /><br />This particular novel is a quick, rewarding read, but I would not recommend it as a starting point in the series.  Sookie's romantic life is a little confused and complicated for my tastes at this point, although I'm still confident that Harris will avoid the Anita Blake road of building romance on a cast of thousands.  And much of the plot picks up threads from previous Southern Vampire novels.  This is not a problem, ino my opinion, but a strength--she may drop a thread here or there in constructing her series, but Harris is very good overall at continuity.  She just doesn't spend much time retracing \\"previous episodes\\" for new readers.  This book is best for those who already know and love Sookie.<br /><br />If you don't, consider picking up Dead Until Dark, the first in the series.  This ride is worth taking from the beginning.	2005-05-21
US	51854558	R3LPF5JBH26XCX	0060572973	169911233	The Good, the Bad, and the Undead (The Hollows, Book 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Superior Entry in a Popular Genre	This is the 2nd book in a paranormal-woman-hangs-with-vampires-fighting-supernatural-evil series that so far ranks very high in my esteem. It has a bit of feel (for me) of old-school Laurell K. Hamilton with a twist of Kelley Armstrong, but I don't find it too derivative. It's got enough of its individual flair to stand out. I highly recommend it. Caveat: don't start here. Go back to Dead Witch Walking, because this story should not stand alone.	2005-05-04
US	51854558	R2CTEYYYF4WWXF	0671882368	326869855	What Jane Austen Ate and Charles Dickens Knew: From Fox Hunting to Whist-the Facts of Daily Life in Nineteenth-Century England	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting, Informative, sometimes too basic or sketchy	This is a handy-dandy reference guide for readers of 19th century fiction.  The first two-thirds of the book are a collection of mini-essays providing an overview of the social and political scene of Regency and Victorian England.  These are interesting and informative reading.  I dedicated a good bit of my master's program to studying 19th century British literature, and there was quite a bit in here that I didn't know.  But they're sometimes a little scant.  100 years provides a lot of space for social customs and institutions to evolve, and in some of these essays a more orderly timeline of that evolution would have been helpful.  For the most part the topics are spot on, and it is a good basic social history of the period.  The latter third of the novel is a glossary which is somewhat less impressive.  Some of these terms are truly obscure, and their inclusion in the glossary could be beneficial for most readers, but other terms--like ague--can be interpreted by anyone with a pocket dictionary.	2005-03-17
US	51854558	R2A470X391BXAQ	0425199975	913829942	Derik's Bane (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Fast-Paced, Fun Adventure	I am familiar with MaryJanice Davidson through her vampire books (beginning with Undead and Unwed).  This is my first dip into the Wyndham Werewolf pool, and I rather regret that I didn't start earlier down the line.  I realize that serial romances are created to stand alone, but I had some serious work to do at the start to figure out who was who and what was going on.  If, like me, you're a newcomer to the werewolves, I'd recommend you go into this one prepared for that.  That said, I enjoyed the experience.  Davidson's novels are quick reads--engaging and extremely amusing.  The characters are quirky, the subject matter treated lightly.  If I have any complaint about this particular novel, it's that the subject matter and the characters are treated just a little too lightly for my tastes.  I enjoyed Derik and Sara, but I didn't invest in them emotionally.  They were fun to watch, but seemed superficial.  I contrast Davidson's Queen Betsy, who is also superficial but nevertheless a warmly sympathetic character, and I know Davidson can do better.  Still, the story offered quite a romp, and the one-liners in here were fresh and funny.  One of them was so good, it inspired me to read the page twice, just to hit it again.  And while I'm not generally too focused on the sex in romances, I have to give Davidson credit: she's got real fire in here.  I will be seeking out more in the series.  Whether I fall in love with the protagonists or not, I'd still like to hang around them.	2005-03-10
US	51854558	R244PPA9DV6QO9	044024112X	961067040	Slightly Dangerous (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	An Affair to Remember	I love a good romance, and Slightly Dangerous by Mary Bologh is a very good romance.  Last in a Regency series concerning the Bedwyn family, Slightly Dangerous is, like the others, witty, but still warm.  Like Julia Quinn, Mary Bologh puts me in mind of Jane Austen.  I suspect this is the style of story Miss Austen would be writing now if she were alive (and able to overcome her modesty enough to pen the occasional sultry sex scene).  There is a certain inevitability to the plot here.  Of course, that's true of most historical romances, which usually begin with \\"boy meets girl\\" and wind up with \\"boy gets girl.\\"  In this one, the path is a little less convoluted than many.  The only impediments to the marriage of true minds here are self-imposed.  But when you care about characters as much as Bologh makes you care about these, it doesn't much matter how surprising the plot is or isn't--you want to follow them, to applaud their happily ever after.  This book made me laugh, and it made me cry, and it left me with a warm glow that I will wait eagerly to rekindle when Bologh's next series begins.	2005-03-04
US	51854558	R2DJ0IP0MW4E8L	0889222940	644916198	In the Company of Strangers	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Modest  Gem of a Book; Invaluable Companion to the Film	_The Company of Strangers_ (American title: _Strangers in Good Company_) is a Canadian docudrama featuring 7 elderly women and 1 younger in contrived desperate straits.  When their tour bus breaks down, they're forced to fend for themselves in an abandoned house in the middle of nowhere.  A sort of \\"reality series\\" precursor, coming several years before MTV's Real World, the film is not in the least suspenseful.  We're not worried about whether or not these women will survive.  We're just interested in watching them get to know each other and getting to know them better.  It's a purely magical look into the histories and minds of these women.<br /><br />This book is a look by one of those women into the process and the experience of making that film.<br /><br />Selected by the associate director to represent Lesbian, septuagenarian Mary Meigs insisted on remaining an individual--and a fascinating individual at that.  Writer, painter, activist and former professor of creative writing at Bryn Mawr, Meigs trains her artist's eye on her surroundings.  The book she created is an interesting artifact in its own right.  Meigs muses about age and gender and sexual identity, but in an unobtrusive way, wrapped up in a descriptive prose style that reminded me somewhat of a more grounded Annie Dillard, as when of the filming process she says:<br /><br />\\"We are spectators and recipients in the great magic show.  Disembodied hands holding Styrofoam cups appear just as the words -water- or -coffee- form in a head; invisible spirits place chairs under our bums (Cissy's word) just before we fall backward into space, or coats on our backs, or scarves around our necks on a nippy morning.  The same hands are also held out to be draped with the same coats, scarves, extraneous handbags and hats, to be hidden in secret places, away from the camera's prying eye.  Umbrellas, parasols, bee helmets materialize, according to the weather.  On hot, still days we stand knee-deep in meadow grass, looking like extraterrestrials,  helmeted in green gauze while the black flies peer in greedily from outside.  Through a green mist I see us lined up, eight mediaeval women warriors, waiting for our marching orders.\\"<br /><br />The magic for Mary is in the mundane--the smile of this woman, the smell of that place.  Meigs does an outstanding job of conveying that and, with her self-effacing manner, hinting at its relevance.<br /><br />But while _In the Company of Strangers_ can stand on its own, it really shouldn't.  It is a magnificent companion piece to the film.  To those who have fallen in love with the women in the movie, it offers an opportunity to see a little more, to find out what happens next.  In the process, it reveals a few secrets, demystifies a scene or two.  But it doesn't diminish the magic.  It completes it.<br /><br />If academia has not already embraced the pair, I believe it will.  Women's Studies.  Gay and Lesbian Studies.  Canadian Studies.  Whatever they are calling or will someday call the culture of aging.  These have a lot of homes.  And I personally believe that a lot of homes will be better off for having them.grass, looking like extraterrestrials,  helmeted in green gauze while the black flies peer in greedily from outside.  Through a green mist I see us lined up, eight mediaeval women warriors, waiting for our marching orders.\\" <br /> <br />The magic for Mary is in the mundane--the smile of this woman, the smell of that place.  Meigs does an outstanding job of conveying that and, with her self-effacing manner, hinting at its relevance. <br /> <br />But while _In the Company of Strangers_ can stand on its own, it really shouldn't.  It is a magnificent companion piece to the film.  To those who have fallen in love with the women in the movie, it offers an opportunity to see a little more, to find out what happens next.  In the process, it reveals a few secrets, demystifies a scene or two.  But it doesn't diminish the magic.  It completes it. <br /> <br />If academia has not already embraced the pair, I believe it will.  Women's Studies.  Gay and Lesbian Studies.  Canadian Studies.  Whatever they are calling or will someday call the culture of aging.  These have a lot of homes.  And I personally believe that a lot of homes will be better off for having them.	2005-02-26
US	51854558	RZMC5SEJY9FX0	0505525550	564610108	Sex, Lies and Vampires (The Dark Ones, Book 3)	Books	4	41	44	N	N	Charming and funny	Katie MacAlister's Dark One series are either a gently mocking tribute to or an affectionate spoof of the paranormal romances of Christine Feehan.  Since I've never developed a taste for Ms. Feehan's work, I'm not sure which.  Either way, I like what MacAlister does.  Her stories are an appealing blend of romantic comedy and adventure.  The brooding never gets too serious, and the tragedy never gets to heavy, not even when in summary it sounds like it should be devastating stuff.<br /><br />This novel is one of a piece with the rest of the series, though perhaps not the best entry in it.  Nell Harris is a spunky, spicy heroine, marked by an earlier failure but not--you know--overly bummed out about it.  Her tormented soulmate may wallow in thoughts of his own depravity, but the novel does not.  Like Nell, the story seems more concerned with helping him get over his horror than inviting us to share it.<br /><br />To me, there are two noteworthy shortcomings in this novel.  First, the development of Nell as a character is a little shallow.  We know what she does for a living, but that's about the extent I remember of her backstory, 10 minutes after finishing the book.  She's fun and funny, but sometimes MacAlister seems to sacrifice a little more depth and detail for the sake of a one-liner than she needs to.  Second, there is a certain redundancy of style and plot to this story to which serial fiction is prone.  If you've read MacAlister, you've got a pretty clear idea where the story is going from soon after the start.  Connecting the dots to the happy ending is not that hard.  And the minorly-handicapped-paranormal-female-lead of this novel is not really that dissimilar from the minorly-handicapped-paranormal-female-lead of MacAlister's last.<br /><br />But, really, I don't pick up these kinds of novels for their plot twists.  I pick them up to delight me and to charm me, and _Sex, Lies and Vampires_ proved very effective at doing that.  Nell Harris may not stand out as the most memorable heroine of all time (or even of MacAlister's library), but I enjoyed the time I spent with her.  And that's enough reason for me to recommend this book.stand out as the most memorable heroine of all time (or even of MacAlister's library), but I enjoyed the time I spent with her.  And that's enough reason for me to recommend this book.	2005-02-24
US	51854558	R3VZQAPGBL2R7R	006251248X	125079529	Are You My Type, Am I Yours? : Relationships Made Easy Through The Enneagram	Books	3	8	8	N	N	slim and a little lightweight	I wanted to like this book.  I picked it up as a tool for exploring the chemistry between characters in my writing.  I always identify their enneagrams during character development, and it seemed like this might inspire thought and lead to new depths of understanding the way they relate.<br /><br />Unfortunately, this volume is a bit skimpy.  The section on enneagram interrelations runs from pages 9 to 157, and it only gets that much because the book has a large typeface, utilizes bullet points and lots of cartoons.  I enjoyed what they have, but it feels like a teaser for a more indepth book.<br /><br />I'll be looking for that book.	2005-02-19
US	51854558	R20DOQPB27P3TK	0743202236	112396348	A Mind at a Time: America's Top Learning Expert Shows How Every Child Can Succeed	Books	3	16	20	N	N	Rambling; lacking citations; some good ideas nevertheless	Let me be clear that I'm reviewing the book, not the doctor.  I ordered this book because I'd heard Dr. Levine speak on television.  He's affable and convincing.  He makes a powerful case for the need to respect different learning styles and incorporate every adult involved in a child's education in developing a tailor-made plan.  The problem is that the case he makes is less powerful here in print, where he never drops a citation or gives credit or offers anything but anecdote to bolster his claims.  That could be fine, but it wasn't the scholarly discourse I was hoping for.  And he sometimes runs long in the speaking.  Dr. Levine may be a whizbang at communicating with kids and extremely sensitive to the needs of an individual, but it seems he's a little less astute at judging the attention of a remote audience--or this one, anyway.  I found it brutally hard to finish this book.  Now that I have, I plan to use it the way I believe that it should have been written: piecemeal, as I find I have need.  This is a manual, not a story, and I believe it would have benefited from a more streamlined presentation.	2005-02-17
US	51854558	RSXDYA1CN49NN	0140178724	232040432	Was	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Dense, Disturbing, & Difficult, but Lyrical and Moving	This dense and disturbing novel offers a look into the life of one Dorothy Gael of Kansas, Ryman's imaginary inspiration for the well-loved Dorothy of the Wizard of Oz, and into a bevy of other characters whose lives are touched (directly or indirectly) by her.  His Dorothy doesn't have a happy story, and for most of the novel misery carries the day.  It is softened by the depths of character and a few moving exemplars of compassion.  Wrapped within the novel is a fascinating glimpse into the history of the book and the movie-from its disreputable and unsavory youth to its arrival as a full-blown American classic.<br /><br />\\"Was\\" is not going to be universally appreciated.  It is difficult.  More than once I found myself reminded of James Joyce; there's a lot going on, and the language isn't always easy to penetrate.  The book has something to say about human nature, the way the world and other people break us.  Society's response to difference and pain.  Homosexuality, child abuse, even the enfeeblement of the aged-the miseries of the human condition are shunned for their power to infect.<br /><br />I can't say that I always enjoyed this book, though I'm glad I read it.  I found it very well written.  The characters were in my opinion completely believable.  Ryman exhibits a compassion for everyone he writes here, from the least sympathetic to the most.  He seems to really understand what drives human beings to the ways they behave, and, unlike the society he represents, he's willing to look at them unflinchingly.  I did find the narrative jumps sometimes a little tough to follow; the book required more work than it always rewarded in that regard.  But that's in keeping with the rest of this novel, which doesn't spoon-feed you answers.  What's the purpose of all this misery?  Perhaps it is so that we, like one of the characters, can say, \\"I'm going to have to do something about all of this.\\"<br /><br />In this book, in this world, there are Dorothies aplenty, shattered souls who need our help.  This resonant novel is a powerful reminder of that fact, an incentive to let them know they are loved.<br /><br />Through most of this novel I would have called this a 4-star, maybe even a high 3--but I found the final section so gripping and the conclusion so powerful that I wouldn't be doing it justice to give it less than a 5. It may not make its way to your list of classics, but it deserves its placement on mine.enty, shattered souls who need our help.   This resonant novel is a powerful reminder of that fact, an incentive to let them know they are loved. <br /> <br /> <br />Through most of this novel I would have called this a 4-star, maybe even a high 3--but I found the final section so gripping and the conclusion so powerful that I wouldn't be doing it justice to give it less than a 5. It may not make its way to your list of classics, but it deserves its placement on mine.	2005-01-20
US	51854558	RFIPXF4FHQ1T7	0441011675	477958501	Dead to the World (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent Entry in the Series	First of all: There are some series that you can jump into at any point.  There are some series that you can't.  If you absolutely had to, you could probably enter the Southern Vampire Series through any of the previous books, but I would not recommend starting with this one.  I've read them all, but with my fuzzy memory found it a little slowgoing at the start of this one as I struggled to bring myself back up to speed.<br /><br />Once I did, though, I was enthralled.<br /><br />What makes Harris' books stand out from the paranormal-woman-involved-with-supernatural-man/men genre is her characters.  Not that she's short on plot, but a good character has a lot of power to propel you through a story, and her Sookie Stackhouse reads like a three-dimensional, breathing woman.  Moreover, her supernaturals read real, too.  One might guess that an author who names a vampire lead \\"Bill\\" is seeking to demystify the species, but the way Harris does it--while often funny--doesn't make them less interesting.  It makes them endearing, believable...what might actually happen if a human being were altered into something immortal and morally questionable.  Vampirism adds layers, but doesn't alter the essential person, except with the kinds of masks we all adopt.<br /><br />Some might object to Sookie's departure from her long-time sweetie, but I found the romance in this book surprisingly touching.  Some other writers may get confused on the point, but Harris seems to understand that meaningless sex is the equivalent of meaningless action.  It might make for blockbuster summer movies, but in books it lacks impact unless it involves the heart.  In everything she does, Sookie has a lot of heart.<br /><br />The series in general: it's a paranormal-woman-involved-with-supernatural-man/men-solving-mysteries series, so if you like others of the type (Hamilton's Anita Blake series, Feehan's Carpathian romance series, Huff's Vicki Nelson series), you should definitely check this out.  There's a lot of southern color and humor in Harris' series, but these books are serious, not parodies of the genre.  I can't wait for book 5.t.  There's a lot of southern color and humor in Harris' series, but these books are serious, not parodies of the genre.  I can't wait for book 5.	2005-01-13
US	51854558	R2GZJA1KV1MS02	0609607820	232816733	The Gallery of Regrettable Food	Books	4	1	1	N	N	MST3K Treatment for Cookbooks	It's fun to mock, and even relatively mundane recipes can become funny and digusting when accompanied by Lilek's biting text.  All the better when the recipes are truly horrendous, rather than relatively mundane--and many of these classics are, at least to modern eyes.  (An 87-year-old friend of mine failed to see the humor.)  Satire fans will find plenty of enjoyment here, both in reading the book and shoving it at their friends.<br /><br />If you aren't already familiar with these delicacies and would like a taste, you can start by visiting Lilek's website, [...] a slice of which the book archives.	2004-12-29
US	51854558	RWO4OVO63FYJ0	0698119207	823101754	I Am Regina	Books	5	5	10	N	N	I Am a Grown-Up, and I read it in one night	I Am Regina is YA historical fiction. That is to say, it's a fictionalized account of a young girl's true experience of being kidnapped by and then raised among the Delaware.<br /><br />School Library Journal in June of 1991 said \\"Readers will hardly realize how much they're learning in the pleasure of the story.\\" I want to know what novel they read. I didn't get much by way of pleasure out of this story.<br /><br />I got a stomach ache. I got a big old wad of anguish. I got an overwhelming sense of the futility of it, the brutality on both sides, the inability of your average joe to escape. It's as good a commentary on the horrors of war as I have ever encountered. But it never goes for the easy road. Never oversensationalizes, romanticizes. Never really even dwells. It presents its horror with a first this then that kind of straightforwardness.<br /><br />The story didn't please me. It moved me. Profoundly.<br /><br />I hope it will do the same for you.	2004-12-19
US	51854558	R25UPGTZWXT0AF	0439435366	8643683	Gregor The Overlander (Underland Chronicles)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Destined to become a classic	This book has magic.  It's not often I find a book that holds me in thrall from beginning to end, but with this one, I didn't feel like doing anything else until I had finished it.  The situation is interesting-an accidental trip to an underworld populated by familiar but mutated creatures.  But more interesting than the situation are the characters.  Gregor is one of the most warmly believable characters I've encountered in a children's novel in a long time.  He is noble, but not perfect.  He is brave, but not foolhardy.  His primary motivation is compassion.  I would love to hang out with this kid.  And his little sister, who is funny and charming.<br /><br />The book is well-written, the story exciting.  My only complaint is that I don't have the sequel in my hands right now.  Until I can get it, I'll hold myself over by reading it again to my son.	2004-12-16
US	51854558	R3LZXWNO5NC0I9	0439474299	110882952	Children of the Red King #1: Midnight for Charlie Bone	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good for Younger Readers--perhaps 3rd & 4th Grade	After the discovery of magical powers, Charlie Bone is forced to go to a special school that mingles artistically gifted children with the magically endowed.  The appeal of the novel is not only in the mystery Charlie discovers along with his power, but in the new situation he finds himself in.  Unfortunately, the Bloor Academy doesn't offer much of a sense of wonder.  We're given to understand that Bone and the other magical children are being taught to use their gifts, but that side of the story is given short shrift.  The teachers we see may be peculiar, but their subjects are very ordinary. And given the rather hostile atmosphere of the school, it's hard to imagine why parents would force their children to attend.  Charlie may have to be there, but surely not all of his classmates do.  There must be other good art teachers.  Somewhere.<br /><br />If the story falls short on wonder, it does provide a reasonably sympathetic protagonist and a reasonably compelling mystery.  The outcome may be telegraphed to adults, but it will be less clear for younger readers unused to the conventions of fiction.  Older readers--even children--may find a lot to question about the motivations of the novel's adults.  Do the villains have any goal other than a desire to be bad?  Do Benjamin's parents have any kind of valid excuse for their horrible negligence of their son?  But young children are used to adults doing inexplicable things.  Like Charlie, they may be content just to confront the way things are without questioning what makes them that way.<br /><br />Most children are fascinated by the idea of suddenly discovering they are something other than what they've been told--something special or magical.  This book allows them to vicariously experience that and also to root for a little boy who is brave within reason and wise enough to call for adult help when he's over his head.  (In this case, in the form of Uncle Paton.)  Charlie is loyal and responsible.  The story is entertaining and (for almost everyone) inoffensive.  This may make a good stepping stone for those children who are too old for the Magic Tree House and too young for Harry Potter.  I wish it had something more substantial, like those series, to offer them.  But maybe that's coming in future books.almost everyone) inoffensive.  This may make a good stepping stone for those children who are too old for the Magic Tree House and too young for Harry Potter.  I wish it had something more substantial, like those series, to offer them.  But maybe that's coming in future books.	2004-12-15
US	51854558	R19XQZ6MV84YK0	0425198782	360072307	Tempting Danger (The World of the Lupi, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A Promising New Series	I was drawn to this novel by Wilks' novella \\"\\"Originally Human,\\" published in the paranormal romance anthology \\"Cravings.\\"  Hers was my favorite of those stories, and I am pleased to find that she fulfilled the promise of that foray here.  I suspect Wilks will prove an excellent world-builder and that her creation will only grow richer with subsequent works.<br /><br />\\"Tempting Danger\\" is in itself a solidly satisfying read.  The premise may not be unique--psychically gifted female joins forces with paranormal man in unraveling a gruesome crime--but the handling of the premise is superb.  Wilks blends just the right amounts of mystery and romance, and she has a deft hand with character.  Not only are Lily and Rule believable and three-dimensional, but I found myself becoming emotionally involved with several of the minor characters as well.  For all its unnatural creatures and energies, by the end of the novel her world felt like home.	2004-11-23
US	51854558	R3GRBU8IXPCPEJ	0553587072	990987533	Industrial Magic (Women of the Otherworld)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Paige Hits Her Stride	I love Kelley Armstrong's writing.  From the moment I picked up \\"Bitten\\" on a whim (not being much of a werewolf fan), I've been hooked.  Her writing is consistently engaging, and, in my opinion, her plotting has grown stronger.  While I found Elena a powerful heroine, I did find Paige a little too passive in the precursor to this novel--more likely to react to situations rather than take a proactive role.  That's remedied in spades here, where Paige proves assertive and self-motivated.  The central mystery is interesting, the secondary characters sympathetic.<br /><br />Often new readers may find a series hard to enter without backtracking to the start, but I don't believe that would be the case here.  While it would be great to know the backgrounds of the characters involved, I think Armstrong does a good enough job of reestablishing backplot without harping on it that a neophyte could follow along--and still enjoy the journey.  If you like mysteries and character-driven supernatural thrillers, this is the place to go.  Compared to her last work, it's erotica-light, which suits me, but its emotionally very fulfilling.	2004-11-05
US	51854558	R1WR458K0EC3M	0425196844	300331712	Jane's Warlord (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Rated M for Mature	This genre-bending novel combines romance, thriller, sf & erotica in an engaging read that will not be to all readers' tastes.  I am not personally drawn to explicit sex scenes in romance.  I am particularly not drawn to those which use the kind of language this one does--the \\"c\\" word for male anatomy, for instance.  It's a testament to Knight's skills as a writer that I finished the book anyway.  For those readers with a higher tolerance for those elements, this could be a very good read.  Knight has an impressive writing style which separates her out from the herd.<br /><br />I didn't dock the book for the explicit sex--although since this rating is supposed to reflect my objective tastes I probably ought to.  I docked it for not fully following through with one of the hero's major quests, which made the story's resolution feel a little limp.	2004-11-01
US	51854558	R2E6VOQYRUKW19	0060513659	87860638	Yours Until Dawn (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Beauty.  Sheer Beauty.	This homage to Beauty and the Beast is delightful.  It's warm, funny, engaging and so tender that the end literally brought tears to my eyes.  Teresa Medeiros' characters have always been her strongest point, and this novel offers two of the best romance protagonists I've encountered in some time.  Samantha is particularly enchanting.  She is determined, practical, thoroughly heroic.  The plot doesn't offer many surprises--the rules of historical romance are straightforward.  Nevertheless, Ms. Medeiros did manage to make me catch my breath in fear for a character I knew, realistically, could not die.  And even though I've read enough of these boy-meets-girl books to know how they turn out, I was still flipping pages eagerly to catch the particulars of this one.	2004-08-26
US	51854558	R8N7DRHYCFV83	0553587064	106938653	Dime Store Magic (Women of the Otherworld)	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Good Author; Good Series; Great Potential	With the plot amply summarized above, there's little reason to recap it here.  Instead, I'll just explain why this book got 4 stars from me instead of 5.<br /><br />The simple answer: Amazon doesn't allow me to give it a 4.5<br /><br />The complicated answer: I personally found this installment in Armstrong's series a little slow to engage, but once it did grip me--about 50 pages into it--it kept me through the end.  Armstrong is a talented author with a good knack for getting a reader inside her character's heads.  I felt a couple of first-person narrator Paige's reactions were plot-driven rather than realistic to her character (neither of which I can discuss with spoilering plot, but they have to do with her degree of acceptance of other people), but for the most part I found her extremely believable.  Her other characters, too, felt real and fleshed out.  In my experience, the authors who make me care the most about their characters are the ones who will make me care the most about their plots--even when said plots are not deeply engaging themselves.<br /><br />That's my biggest problem with this book.  With one shining exception the protagonists in this story react rather than act.  Adventure is forced upon Paige; she is, effectively, a damsel in distress.  While that may be a legitimate plot direction, it's not my personal favorite plot direction...and these stars are, after all, based on subjective reception to the book.<br /><br />I am pleased by a hint that future books in the series may go a different direction.  I do like Ms. Armstrong's prose and much admire her skills depicting character.  I would love to see Paige out to do something, rather than being done to.	2004-08-26
US	51854558	R1GVZA2PBGVQP7	0811814122	551324135	Beneath the Sea in 3-D	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	I didn't know what I was in for!	I ordered this book primarily for the benefit of my 7 year old son. We're doing a research project on oceans, and while we have a few good resources, I felt this one, with its 3d imagery, would more likely capture and hold his attention. What I didn't realize was how thoroughly it would capture and hold mine. For me, 3D had always meant multicolored plastic glasses and headaches. Though the book was described as stereoscopic, I didn't understand what that meant. Stereography was something new for me, even if as a form of photography it is over 150 years old.<br /><br />This is not a matter of red and blue separations; the 3D results from the human eye's trick of blending 2 photos taken (simultaneously) an eye's width apart.  Photographer Mark Blum is a pioneer in the art of underwater 3d photography, and his work is beautifully displayed here.  Everyone I've shown this book to has been fascinated by it, and I fully expect that when we've finished with our project the book will find its way to permanent display in my home.	2004-08-03
US	51854558	R34HO2J3E9404B	0515138150	81264330	Cravings	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Overall enjoyable	To this anthology of supernatural romances, each author brings her own particular flavor.  Laurell K. Hamilton, headliner because of her wildly popular Anita Blake series, brings fetish sex without much by way of plot.  Rebecca York offers a romance thriller in miniature--complete with mystery and damsel in distress.  MaryJanice Davidson provides a light-hearted contemporary romance of the vampire kind.  Eileen Wilks presents...well, I don't know what to call what Eileen Wilks presents, other than good.  It was my favorite of the four stories.<br /><br />The only cohesion between the stories was the supernatural element.  Werewolves, vampires, demons...they do represent how very differently such things can be handled.  The plus side of that, obviously, is the diversity.  Whether you want `em steamy or silly, you're going to get something to satisfy.  The downside is that they don't necessarily mesh that well.  York's story was quite good, but I had to put the book aside for a full day before I could get out of Wilks' vision enough to get into it.  A minor drawback at worst.<br /><br />While I'm sure there are some readers who will feel differently, the only story in the anthology that did not please my particular tastes was the Hamilton story.  I truly enjoyed her early Anita Blake novels but have found recently that the kink seems to matter more than the plot.  I prefer more of a blending of the two, and there was less plot than usual in her entry here--possibly because this \\"short story\\" is a mashed excerpt from her latest novel.  For those who find the sex in those stories more compelling than the mysteries, this may be a nice little sampler.  Personally, it doesn't really whet my appetite.<br /><br />Wilks upcoming novel in this new series, Tempting Danger, on the other hand, is already on my list.	2004-08-01
US	51854558	R1EGMSZJQV0Y8V	1580650244	5023707	The Complete Writer's Guide to Heroes and Heroines: Sixteen Master Archetypes	Books	5	26	28	N	Y	Eye-Opening and Entertaining	In the quest of refining character, I have devoured a number of psychology texts and writer's guides, and I do believe that this one may be the best book on that topic I have ever discovered.  I would quibble with Cowden, LaFever and Viders in their assertion that the 16 Master Archetypes are the only archetypes, but it's such a small point that it doesn't detract from what they present.  Peppered with easily accessible examples, their book breaks down character into strong, clearly sketched components and then discusses how the palates may be blended--in individual character development and interpersonal relationships.  I don't know if I would ever use any guide to create a character from scratch, but I'm always happy to find something to help me ensure that my characters behave consistently once they've been created.  I expect this book to prove valuable for that, and I highly recommend it.	2004-07-30
US	51854558	R3NR4752MSA6TB	158297246X	419166721	Writer's Guide to Character Traits	Books	2	50	60	N	N	Disappointing Resource	Based on the Amazon description for this book, I had imagined it would be useful in fleshing out existing characters. I already write very detailed histories on major characters, but there are always those minor characters whose stories I'd like to explore without taking massive amounts of time to do it. When this book arrived, I decided to run through it with one particular fellow and see what it could tell me about him.<br /><br /> Nothing. Sure, he fits within several categories, but there's no detailed information about any of them. And some of them are so sketchy as to defy classification as traits.<br /><br /> Take &quot;symphorophiliac&quot; for instance. Edelstein advises that &quot;Individual is sexually aroused by accidents or catastrophes.&quot; She explains that at the extreme, individuals may arrange accidents for personal pleasure. She doesn't say who these symphorophiliacs are or where they come from. It takes quite a stretch to consider that a profile of a human behavior or personality type.<br /><br /> I give the book some credit for its potential in sparking ideas. Read through it and you might find inspiration for a character you'd like to create. However, if you really want to know what makes that character tick, you're going to have to look somewhere else. The answer simply isn't here.	2004-07-28
US	51854558	R2F5HE0L0IEMXG	0060531231	291945801	When He Was Wicked (Bridgertons)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not as good as her others, perhaps, but good	Julia Quinn's ability to capture the human spirit is, in my opinion, second to none--at her best, her characters sparkle with charm, wit and intelligence.  Unfortunately, I don't think &quot;When He Was Wicked&quot; finds her at her best.  Francesca has appeared to better effect in other novels, which is a disservice to the character, since this is &quot;her&quot; story.  While Michael Stirling is rich and compelling, we just have to take him at his word that his lady love is worth the passion she inspires.  If one takes this novel alone, it's hard to understand why.  Their relationship does catch fire in the bedroom, but the richest emotional payoff in the novel comes not in its characters' story, but in the author's afterword.  In spite of my less-than-complete satisfaction with this novel, I do greatly respect and admire Julia Quinn.<br />This isn't to say it's a bad book.  Quinn is one of the finer romance authors currently in the field, and even if this seems one of her lesser works to me, it's still better than the majority of romance novels I pick up.  I would recommend it, but I would not recommend it as a first Quinn novel.  While most of the Bridgertons can stand alone, this one holds up better as part of a group.	2004-07-03
US	51854558	RMJNJ02SFN735	0062516760	212728331	The Essential Enneagram: The Definitive Personality Test and Self-Discovery Guide	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	Good for what it is, but...	...it isn't definitive, not by a long shot.  If you're reading recommendations for this, you're probably already somewhat familiar with enneagrams.  If you're somewhat familiar with them, then you probably already know most of what this book contains.  It is a handy dandy reference guide to the 9 types.  It boils them down into quick reference, eliminating some of the repetition that I've seen in other sources.  It also offers a somewhat laughable &quot;self improvement&quot; section for the different types which completely ignores the fact that not all 2s (or 8s or 9s or 7w6s) are at equal stages of health and development.<br />The reference value alone earns this slim volume a 3.  Why the four?  Because I find the self-assessment paragraphs, coupled with the very useful section explaining how each type differs from the others for those who are conflicted between types, far superior to the usual enneagram test.  This bumps this book up a notch.<br />It isn't by any means definitive, and it isn't even essential, but it is useful as part of a library on the topic.	2004-07-01
US	51854558	R25WZUK6Q4E0TF	1582403309	68838504	Heavens War	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Slow, deep and enriching	Reviewer Mike Perschon has given a good overview of the story and great guidance on its best audience.  To it, I should like to add the recommendation that those readers who pick it up settle down with Heaven's War somewhere quiet, with time to devote to it.  Those who are seeking quick entertainment will do neither it nor themselves justice.  Some may find this story a slow starter, but there are rich depths that will reward the persistent, and those who go back for a second read will find elements have taken on new levels.  If readers aren't familiar with the persons and philosophies involved, they can keep one finger in the notes at the end of the book, which should clear up much of the mystery.  Even if the reader is familiar, its worth investigating the notes after reading the novel.  They offer depths of their own.<br />My only real criticism of this work is its format.  I think the author would have better served the material to present it in novel form, which would have allowed a little more exposition and a little less redundant imagery.  While Gaydos seems to be a fine illustrator, the story appeals less to the senses than to the mind and the soul.	2004-06-10
US	51854558	R1CRXLR4SV5M92	0440241065	475697120	Slightly Tempted (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Love the People, Love the Book	The heart of a romance is character, and Balogh is gifted at presenting that.  Morgan is particularly attractive and believable, aside from a brief episode towards the end of the book where her innate nobility seems to be shunted for a somewhat contrived plot point.  Still, Morgan and Gervase are compelling enough to forgive the departure.  Their story is both uplifting and entertaining.	2004-03-17
US	51854558	RQZRZOF9PRZAB	0613366298	804805737	A Red Heart of Memories	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Redemption &amp; Trust in a Broken World	In Hoffman's world, the nature of good and evil is not always clear.  Magic is real, but evil is human--and it exists in both hero and villain.  The novel deals with redemption, but more--it explores trust in a world of flawed people.  How can you trust others when you have been hurt?  And when you have hurt others, how can you trust yourself?<br />The novel is more narration than action--the plot expands primarily through the stories that characters tell to Matt.  Given the nature of the novel, this technique works well to emphasize that events do not have meaning only in themselves, but in our interpretation of them.<br />While the themes are mature, the book is appropriate for teens.	2004-01-18
