US	51850655	R1GNHZ2AE6X9R1	0824324285	295463790	Annual Review of Neuroscience, Vol. 28, 2005	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sets a new standard	I made it out of New Orleans after Katrina with a backpack.  In it I brought one book--this one!  Before getting to the articles, I should mention that the '05 ARN has some major new design features.  Most importantly, there are MANY more color illustrations which are now integrated into the text, instead of being on separate plates as in previous volumes.  The paper stock is heavier and of higher quality.  The book dimensions are also somewhat different.  These changes make for a significant enhancement of reading pleasure. <br />  With regard to the review articles, they are of course of the usual high quality associated with ARN and on a broad spectrum of topics.  As a neurologist, the most clinically relevant ones to me included \\"Molecular Pathophysiology of Parkinson's Disease\\"--an excellent overview of the recent advances in the genetics and such topics as ubiquitin-proteasome system and mitochondrial dysfunction in PD--an article by Simon Baron-Cohen on autism, and a very interesting new theory on the function of the locus coeruleus, which speculates that its two major functions are to enhance task performance (in phasic firing mode) and to stimulate the organism to disengage and look elsewhere for reward (in tonic firing mode).  A controversial lead-off article by Toga and Thompson is on the genetics of brain structure and intelligence, outlining new approaches to the always topical questions regarding the hereditability and definition of intelligence.  In the basic science type articles, I especially liked the one on Dendritic Computation--instantiating the properties of dendrites into model neurons in neural network systems is going to be of major importance.  So all in all this new ARN sets a new standard in the distinguished history of these volumes. <br />  By the way, you can get it for about $100 cheaper if you subscribe to the ARN series in advance.  Even if you're an academic type and have access to it through the library it's worthwhile owning yourown volume.  I should also mention that by buying the volume you also get online access, with the usual advantages of HTML format with clickable references to get Medline abstracts and so forth, and downloadable in .pdf format so you can cut and paste illustrations for talks.  But I'm an old-fashioned type, and for sustained reading a book still is the clear winner over a computer screen.	2005-10-03
US	51850655	R8YE3JLDDJNNV	0126603030	313264545	Fundamental Neuroscience, Second Edition	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Most up-to-date text on the market	I'm a clinical academic neurologist with an MS in neuroscience some 25 years ago, and I decided to read through this text as a means of bringing myself up-to-date in the field.  This textbook accomplished that task admirably.  I will agree with some critics that parts of it were far too detailed, especially the sections on molecular neurobiology, where too often things got bogged down with discussions of a protein's biophysical properties, for example. Another caveat is that there are some production defects--the pages around 200 are not in the right order, and I found a few diagrams that were mislabelled. But the illustrations are really gorgeous.  I've made extensive use of the CD, which contains all the figures and their legends, for Power Point presentations to the neurology residents I teach. I would suggest that future editions of the CD incorporate some videos and animated diagrams that could better illustrate some concepts, e.g., details of signal transduction, which is REALLY complex and was hard to follow in the text.  But Kandels text is now several years older and as the pace of neuroscience is so incredibly rapid, this text contains more of the latest info.	2005-03-28
US	51850655	R3PF0NV02ELON7	0824324277	50449589	27: Annual Review of Neuroscience 2004	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent as usual	The 2004 edition of ARN is up to the usual high standards of this series.  As a clinical neurologist, the articles I found most clinically relevant were: The Medial Temporal Lobe, which contains a good overview of memory systems; Cortical Neural Prosthetics, an intro to the future of rehab--shades of The Matrix--where cortical activity can be used through a computer interface to control prosthetic limbs; the article on mechanisms of neuron degeneration in ALS; and surprisingly, Ubiquitin-dependent Regulation of the Synapse--a lot of this information was new to me and it has clinical implications in Parkinson's disease in particular.  Other fascinating topics included Rizzolatti's article on Mirror Neurons, with implications for the evolution of language, and a superb article on Attentional Modulation of Visual Processing, illustrating the mechanism by which attention enhances information processing.  A hot new area in neuroscience is introduced in the article on How the Brain Processes Social Information.  The prize for the most molecularly detailed and longest article goes to the 40 page exegesis on synaptic vesicles--what a complicated system!--with a close 2nd place to the long article on G protein coupled receptors, which was a real eye-opener for me in terms of how many neural systems use these.  So as usual a real potpourri of topics, generally clearly written, useful at the advanced undergraduate or graduate level for those with a special interest in one of the topics, or for general interest reading for those with a professional background in neurology or neuroscience.	2004-12-23
US	51850655	R2K358ATAO05PN	0195134974	774923634	Principles of Frontal Lobe Function	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Excellent book, tough sledding at times	Shortly after this book came out I took it with me to a conference.  A fellow neurologist saw it and commented, \\"Great book, but you can't read it.\\"  Though there is a good deal of clinically relevant material here, the book is basically written from a cognitive neuroscience perspective and so some background in that discipline is necessary to comprehend the material.  The book is a yeasty mix of theoretical and experimental work in these 34 chapters, often with overlapping but different, and sometimes conflicting, perspectives on the same phenomena, on what was once the terra incognita of the human brain.  There is still a great deal of mystery and controversy over how the frontal lobes work, but we have come a long way since the story of Phineas Gage, and the contributors to this book have been amongst the pioneers.  Definitely the premiere currently available book on the frontal lobes.	2004-08-09
US	51850655	R2HB17D326YP1Y	0465006957	262036966	Religion Explained	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A revelation!	As a neurologist with an interest in cognitive neuroscience,  I've always been interested in the origins of religion.  Why DO people believe all these wacky things anyway?  I had what I thought were some original ideas on the subject, but after reading Boyer's fascinating book, where I saw some of them openly discussed and shot down, I conclude that I am a rank amateur in this area!  My ideas came from my exposure to the world's major religions, but Boyer's perspective as an anthropologist allows him to bring in examples of religious beliefs from a wide range of cultures, which is necessary to formulate a full theory of how and why religion evolved.  He also brings in evidence from cognitive science and evolutionary psychology to buttress his views.  I found his writing style dryly humourous, and often his points are made with enough of a punchline that I laughed out loud.  So to me, this book was, dare I say it, a revelation!  Highly recommended to anybody with an interest in religion...which is to say, everybody!	2004-06-12
US	51850655	R3NNLXNQY9GTW7	0824324269	605638064	Annual Review of Neuroscience, Vol. 26	Books	5	1	1	N	N	ARN to the rescue!	Once again it is that time of year-the time to write another review of the Annual Review of Neuroscience, which I do faithfully every year, in the secure knowledge that in all probability no will read, and even less likely care, what I write in praise of these remarkable books.  Here are rich and detailed summaries written by leading researchers of a wide variety of topics.  Steve Hyman has ably taken over supervising editor duties from Max Cowan, who died in 2002.  As a clinical neurologist, I found several articles to be of great interest, and in fact converted some of them to Power Point presentations for journal club lectures to the neurology residents.  These included \\"Human Neurodegenerative Disease Modeling Using Drosophila,\\" where using the remarkably versatile fruit fly has provided insights into Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's and ALS.  I also used the article by Caughey on protofibrils as the basis for a lecture; the small aggregates of the beta-amyloid protein may turn out to be more important than plaques in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's.  Other clinically relevant articles were on pain mechanisms, the neural control of breathing, and epilepsy genes.  The only article I really couldn't follow well was the one on \\"Inference and computations with population codes,\\" the only place where a good mathematics background is required, but even here one can get a general sense of how neuroscienctists are attacking the problem of precisely how neurons encode information. In summary, the articles in ARN volumes are no easy read, but graduate students with an interest in neuroscience, and clinical neurologists with a theoretical bent can greatly profit from them.  Once again, this ARN volume rides to the rescue of people who are looking for in depth reviews on cutting edge topics in the neurosciences.	2004-02-18
US	51850655	R1AQRIVFRW34OP	0198547935	562591454	The Developing Brain	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent, molecular based summary of brain development	Truly, this is a book that could not have been written a few years ago.  The explosion of research into the molecular basis of brain development has been one of the most astounding aspects of advances in neuroscience.  It is suitable for advanced undergraduate and graduate students, preferably if they've already had a course in general developmental biology.  The book of course discusses human brain development, but does so from a comparative perspective, including both invertebrate and mammalian systems.  The focus is on the molecules involved in brain development, players like the whimiscally named sonic hedgehog, ephrins, FGFs etc...the list is into the hundreds now.  It is well written and concise; I especially liked how the chapter sections are each only 1-3 pages long.  It is heavily referenced and current through 2001, so it can be a good jumping off place to go into more detail on whatever strikes your fancy.  My only criticism is the illustrations...although the book is reasonably illustrated with informative and well chosen black and white line drawings, there are no photographs or color pictures, and I have found, in attempting to peruse the developmental neurobiology literature without being a developmentalist by trade, it is often difficult to figure out what it is they're trying to show in the color photos that are usually present in modern articles, so it would be helpful for a textbook to include them to help students orient themselves when they do hit the actual literature.  But undoubtedly this kept the price of the book quite reasonable.  Also, the authors have chosen to stress the molecular aspects, so some of the details of morphology are not emphasized.  A nice point about the book is that the last several chapters deal with plasticity issues like synaptic rearrangement, learning, and repair, showing continuity of mechanisms from earlier in development to the adult brain.  Of course, any textbook in this field is outdated by the time it is published, but to get an excellent overview and summary I think it is really superb!	2003-08-31
US	51850655	R1GZR6CBL42UG1	0674006135	160288803	The Structure of Evolutionary Theory	Books	5	20	24	N	N	The most important book on evolutionary theory since Darwin	Gould's Structure must surely rank as one of the most important contributions to evolutionary theory since the publication of Origin of Species.  In brief, this massive book consists of two parts, the first being an extensive historical review of theories of evolution beginning even before Darwin and extending up to the Modern Synthesis in the 1960s, and the second a critique of key elements in evolutionary theory as formulated by Darwin and codified in the Modern Synthesis.  Theoretical controversies introduced in the historical section are shown to persist even in today's discussions.  Incidentally, in the first chapter there is a 40 page \\"abstract\\" which is an excellent chapter by chapter summary of the book's major points.<BR>  Some of the key Darwinian conceptions and Gould's counterproposals are as follows:<BR>1) Darwin: natural selection at the level of the individual organism is the sole, or at least by far the most important, contributor to evolution.<BR>    Gould:  There is a hierarchy of natural selection, with selection at the species level, not the organismal level, as the most important for macroevolution.<BR>2) Darwin: natural selection operating on (hereditable)variation is by far the most dominant factor in causing evolution.<BR>   Gould: constraints on hereditable variation imposed by developmental mechanisms play a very important evolutionary role (this is where Gould gives a superb discussion of some of the recent advances in evolutionary developmental biology (\\"evo-devo\\") integrated into evolutionary theory.)  <BR>3)  Darwin: Gradual transformation over geological time spans leads to the development of new species.<BR>    Gould: In fact, the paleontological evidence is that the vast majority of species develop with great rapidity (in geological terms) and then remain stable before extinction and/or replacement by a new species (punctuated equilibrium).  Additionally, global catastrophic events such as the meteorite hit at the end of the Cretaceous era cause massive, sudden, and unpredictable changes in evolution. <BR>  I really can't praise this book highly enough.  Yes it is long, but Gould's keen analytic abilities and his penchant for introducing interesting analogies (such as spandrels, and their classification into \\"franklins\\" and \\"miltons\\") kept my attention throughout.  This is not a conventional \\"textbook\\" of evolution; you won't find here a systematic survey of how and when various different animal groups evolved.  But it is an absolutely masterful survey of the theory behind evolution, buttressed by numerous in-depth examples.  However, I would strongly suggest to those without much of a background in these matters reading an introductory book like Carl Zimmer's Evolution before attempting to tackle Structure.	2003-06-29
US	51850655	R14VWBKYCQRJA7	0195105044	666317957	Brain Architecture: Understanding the Basic Plan (Medicine)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent neuroanatomy intro &amp; overview	This is a well written and concise introduction to some basic principles of CNS anatomy, written with an eye to both historical and developmental perspectives.  Swanson likes to use classic diagrams from celebrated old-timers like Cajal to illustrate basic principles, and also includes some relatively new information on the exciting progress in molecular determinants of brain embryological development.  I'd strongly recommend this as a first quick read-through for those about to embark on a more detailed neuroanatomy course, or for the interested undergraduate or even precocious high school student with an interest in the subject.  Speaking as an experienced clinical neurologist, I found the book a nice refresher, and even learned a new thing or two from it.	2003-06-18
US	51850655	R10AIV93X4HER1	0262133709	985387135	Neural Correlates of Consciousness: Empirical and Conceptual Questions	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good start towards an interdisciplinary dialog	For me, the most interesting thing about this book was the attempt to establish a dialog between neuroscience and philosopy, wherein philosophy is able to sharpen questions posed by neuroscientists, and in turn the findings of neuroscience help shape philosophical questions.  One of the more successful examples of this dialog is in &quot;theory of mind,&quot; really first brought to the fore by philosophers, then turned into empirical questions that have been addressed experimentally by both developmental psychologists and neuroscientists.  However, I have to say I found some of the philosophical contributions in this book rather heavy going, though I imagine those with more of a philosophy background would have the same to say about the neuroscientific chapters!  I agree that the contributors are top-notch, with two of them (Edelman and Crick) Nobelists.  Several of them have more expansive versions of their theories presented elsewhere...e.g. Damasio in his &quot;The Feeling of What Happens&quot; and Edelman in &quot;A Universe of Consciousness&quot;, though the chapters here are nice, brief summaries of their ideas.	2003-02-06
US	51850655	R3RZ55NABULKA4	0878932437	58015598	Developmental Biology	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Outstanding in-depth intro to developmental biology	I think Scott Gilbert has done an absolutely stupendous job in writing this clearly written, beautifully illustrated and up-to-date exposition of developmental biology.  The concluding chapter on evolutionary developmental biology is brief but very well done.  The websites associated with the book and the CD provide much additional information.  Definitely the premier textbook in this area.  Don't tackle it without having taken at least a course in cell biology, and some exposure to biochemistry and genetics would be helpful as well.  The last time I read a dev bio textbook was when I was in college 30 years ago; how things have changed!	2002-12-23
US	51850655	R1ILHPXRIZ2NGV	0824324250	98389355	25: Annual Review of Neuroscience: 2002	Books	5	0	0	N	N	ARN strikes again!	This year's offering from Annual Review of Neuroscience is up to its usual high standards, and has slimmed down to its usual size compared to last year's monster.  Articles of special interest to the neurologist include focused review articles on the role of hypocretins in narcolepsy, macrophage activation in AIDS dementia, and some new info on MS immunology.  Articles on fragile X and schizophrenia as a developmental disorder may also be of some interest.  I think Andersen's article on &quot;Intentional Maps in Posterior Parietal Cortex&quot; is intriguing, as at the end he gets in to some unpublished work his lab is doing on control of devices by neural prosthetic interfaces.  It's my habit to read these books every year, and I've yet to be disappointed.	2002-11-08
US	51850655	R30GY8CPWD1ZB4	0262071959	845685387	The New Cognitive Neurosciences: Second Edition	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Absolutely spectacular achievement	I think I can claim to be probably the only clinical neurologist who has read both this book and its first edition cover to cover, which really reflects the fascination of the articles more than incredible compulsivity on my part.  The book is divided into 11 sections--development, plasticity, sensory systems, motor systems, attention, memory, language, higher cognitive functions, emotion, evolution, and consciousness, with anywhere from 8-15 articles in each section (total 94 chapters!), averaging around 15 pages each, and a helpful introduction written by an expert for the sections.  There are also a large number of color illustrations.  For the most part, the articles are very clearly written reviews, and would be appropriate for the upper undergraduate or graduate level student.  The emphasis is obviously more on neuroscience than on clinical medicine, though helpful correlates to neurological patients can be found in many chapters.  Michael Gazzaniga has once again done a masterful job in assembling contributors, and it is wonderful to see how much the field has advanced since the first edition of this book was published in 1995.  For anyone with more than a casual interest in the field, this book is a MUST HAVE!!	2002-10-04
US	51850655	R1IT47AFW02WNH	0262161842	135786638	Drive: Neurobiological and Molecular Mechanisms of Sexual Motivation (Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Everything you ever wanted to know about rat sex, and more!	This book is mainly about Pfaff's research into the neurobiological basis of sexual response, principally in the female rat, using the lordosis response as a model system. It is clearly written and well illustrated.  The integration of hormonal and genetic influences in the context of a specific neural network is illuminating.  Applications to understanding human sexuality are discussed but are limited in scope.  Should be accessible to anyone with a couple of college courses in biology and physiological psychology.	2002-04-01
US	51850655	R1JWIHHP2W58BG	0824324242	693759762	24: Annual Review of Neuroscience: 2001	Books	5	0	0	N	N	the BIG kahuna of ARN reviews!!	Well, I'm sure I've gotta be the only clinical neurologist who has read every article of the Annual Review of Neurosciences for the past 10 years, so those are my qualifications to review this monster of a book. Don't let the talk about the binding scare you...mine's held up well. This book is twice the size of the usual ARN books...over 1300 pages of sheer reading pleasure! Though I do have to admit some of it is thick going, to say the least; I found the article on steropsis particularly incomprehensible. There's a great article on frontal lobe function. Other clinically relevant articles are on tauopathies, brain tumor biology, prion diseases, and human brain malformations. There are several large articles on nerve growth factor, including an extensive historical review of Hamburger and Levi-Montalcini's initial contributions to the field, plus related articles on neurotrophins. Plenty of early development stuff, including articles on reelin, pituitary development and patterning of the midbrain and cerebellum. Zeki's article on conscious vision is a must read for those who are interested in the biological basis of consciousness. Fascinating articles on olfaction should interest neural net fans.	2002-04-01
US	51850655	R2ZGH2OFQ5KP5E	0122053516	31187102	Genomic Regulatory Systems: In Development and Evolution	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Dense but worthwhile reading	This book is complementary too, but on a more advanced level than Sean Carroll's From DNA To Diversity, which I strongly recommend as a great intro book to evo-devo.  Davidson's book is tough going in places, which is why I gave it one star off, but the material is in fairness quite complex.  He emphasizes the role of cis-regulatory sequences in genes and the structure of the systems that regulate gene expression in development and evolution in some detail.  It becomes clear how minor mutations in the regulatory part of a gene can transform how it is expressed, and why the importance for evolution in mutations in gene expression is clearly much greater than for mutations in the protein coding sequence.  His explanation for what is responsible for the incredible homologies in, for example, the pax 6 gene that regulates eye development across phyla is very illuminating.  A must read for anybody interested in the molecular basis for development and evolution.	2002-02-12
US	51850655	R3RAM2DQBYFJ1L	0345440331	920633675	Why God Won't Go Away: Brain Science and the Biology of Belief	Books	2	12	16	N	N	A lot of speculation from a minimum of research.	This book deserves credit for introducing the concept of &quot;neurotheology,&quot; or the neurobiological basis for religious belief and behavior.  It is a topic certainly worthy of greater exploration.  But in this book, the background science is very limited, consisting of only a few studies with a small number of subjects and inadequate controls.  Unaddressed questions of their SPECT studies include, for example, what happens in completely untrained &quot;meditators&quot; performing a similar technique, without any subjective attainment of exalted states...will they show the same pattern of &quot;deafferentation&quot; in the posterior parietal cortex?  And speaking as a clinical neurologist, I have to say that the vast majority of their speculations concerning brain mechanisms involved in religious experience is, to put it frankly, unsupported baloney.  Their argument that the SPECT patterns shown could reflect perception of a &quot;higher reality&quot;, because other SPECT patterns can be seen when people are engaged in other tasks of sensory perception, is nonsense.  Delusional schizophrenics have interesting SPECT scans also, but it doesn't imply that their perceptions are real.  The counter argument that mystics appear to be psychologically healthy so therefore their beliefs should be trusted is also demonstrably false...lots of &quot;psychologically healthy&quot; individuals hold to all kinds of beliefs that have no basis in reality. <BR>  Having said that, research into why spiritual beliefs are a constant thread in human culture, analagous to language in a sense (people are neurologically predisposed to learn language, though the language learned depends on the environment...the same is true for religion, though not to the same extent) should continue.  To their credit, the authors do point out that religious behavior could have had adaptive value in our ancestral environment, by strengthening tribal ties, facilitating communication and so on, and thus there may have been selection pressure for individuals more predisposed to holding religious beliefs to have survived and passed on their genes.  Unfortunately, this line of thought is not much developed, and instead a lot of space in this short book is devoted to explanations of various mystic beliefs.	2002-01-12
US	51850655	R2NRPQX5BYG3BX	052164271X	924964940	Evolutionary Anatomy of the Primate Cerebral Cortex	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good summary of research trends	This is a short, very readable book, consisting of a series of brief reviews of various aspects of primate cortical evolution.  There are two main sections, &quot;The evolution of brain size,&quot; and &quot;Neurological substrates of species-specific adaptations,&quot; each with a very helpful introductory/summary essay.  A fascinating epilogue is by Harry Jerison, in whose honor this volume was written, showing how the pioneers in a field can still stay on the cutting edge of things.  Two of the articles I found most illuminating were by Todd Preuss, who shows how the idea of a canonical mammalian cortical circuit diagram is a gross oversimplification, and Katerina Semendeferi, who contests the received truth that human frontal lobes are greatly expanded; in fact her work shows they are of the expected volume for a primate of our size.  Pasko Rakic also presents his view of how cortical expansion could have occurred (by simply expanding the number of cell cycles in the ventricular zone), which he has presented elsewhere, but here with some new data on the role of apoptosis.  However, there is not much coverage of recent advances in the understanding of regulatory molecules involved in brain development (e.g. the hox genes).  The book is also a priced a bit too high in my opinion.  But for those interested in this area, it is a must read, and an enjoyable one.	2001-12-30
US	51850655	R1HXT5E5YRSDYB	0060199067	396649281	Evolution: The Triumph of an Idea	Books	5	18	24	N	Y	Ideal intro to evolution	Clearly written, beautifully illustrated, this book should be accessible to any intelligent lay person, and provides an ideal introduction to the history of evolution as a theory and as reality.  It is an excellent companion to the PBS series.  Although it will not convince any &quot;true believer&quot; creationist types (who rank right up there in the deluded ranks with people who think Osama was framed), it does explicitly address their concerns.  It includes results from some cutting edge research, as well as covering the basics.  A real pleasure to read.	2001-12-23
US	51850655	R2YAS5S7PSKDH3	0262032805	917582	Handbook of Functional Neuroimaging of Cognition (Cognitive Neuroscience)	Books	5	52	52	N	N	Excellent &amp; comprehensive intro	This is an excellent book, focusing on fMRI and PET, that goes over in detail methodology and applications.  The methodology sections includes details on the underlying physiology (it's more complicated than just blood flow and 02 extraction)and critiques the commonly used subtraction method, preferring instead event-evoked studies.  Going beyond the simplistic concepts of areas &quot;lighting up&quot; being &quot;for&quot; this or that cognitive function, there is coverage of network analysis.  The methodology is obviously still in an early evolutionary phase, and each chapter has closing section on controversies and future directions.  The application sections cover neuroimaging of attention, visual recognition, semantic, episodic and working memory, and language.  There is good critical review of the literature here, and there is no tendency towards oversimplification of conflicting results.  There is also a chapter on cognitive aging that I found particularly informative, showing how the elderly utilize different neural networks than younger people to perform various cognitive tasks.  The book is about 400 pages and includes 22 color plates.  This is a very rich and rapidly evolving research area, and I think this is a great intro book for clinicians in neurology, psychology and psychiatry, as well as neuroradiology, to get an appreciation of what just a few years ago was a science fiction concept...taking pictures of the mind as it thinks.	2001-10-25
US	51850655	R262WVVFP0GBKK	0262122332	707224356	I of the Vortex: From Neurons to Self	Books	4	74	75	N	N	Novel ideas; thought-provoking	This is another in a spate of recent popular books by leading neuroscientists attempting to explain consciousness and the mind. They are a bit like the fable of the blind men and the elephant. Damasio, a neurologist, (The Feeling of What Happens) takes a neurological perspective; Freeman (How Brains Make up Their Minds)uses a systems approach derived from his research into olfaction; Edelman (A Universe of Consciousness)takes more of a neuroanatomical approach (massive reentrant systems)and in this book Llinas works from his background in cellular physiology up from the level of the single cell. Llinas' book is the best referenced of the above, and he really has some good insights. His discussion on qualia as a sensory &quot;fixed action pattern,&quot; analogous to motor FAPs, I thought particularly original. I also liked his idea of the origin of the self as a brain representation of the body, which has profound implications, for it implies virtually all animals have at least a primitive &quot;sense of self.&quot; Although the link between cellular physiology and higher levels of nervous system organization is not (understandably) well bridged in the book, all in all, I think Llinas describes a good chunk of the elephant...definitely worthwhile reading.	2001-09-15
US	51850655	R13BLJGCF68JMF	0231120087	320892981	How Brains Make Up Their Minds	Books	4	28	30	N	N	Interesting combination of neuroscience, philosophy and math	This is one of several books in the last couple of years written by leading neuroscientists attempting to explain consciousness. Outstanding examples are Damasio's &quot;The Feeling of What Happens&quot; and Edelman and Tononi's &quot;A Universe of Consciousness,&quot; which are both very worthwhile reading. Freeman takes a different tack, based on his years of research into the olfactory system. Though this short book appears to be aimed at the educated layman, many will be stopped short in their tracks by his &quot;ten building blocks&quot; of &quot;how neural populations sustain the chaotic dynamics of intentionality,&quot; such as the ever-popular #8, &quot;Attenuation of microscopic sensory-driven activity and enhancement of mesoscopic amplitude modulation patterns by divergent-convergent cortical projections underlying solipsm.&quot; These ten statements form the core of the book, and although they are ultimately explained with some degree of clarity, I found myself wishing for more specific examples from the neuroscientific literature beyond the very limited samples provided, which tended to be either very basic circuit diagram type drawings, or taken from his work in the olfactory system. I did find the application of chaos theory to brain dynamics fascinating, though for a critique of Freeman's approach and an alternative view see the article by Laurent et al in the 2001 Annual Review of Neuroscience. Overall, though, I found the book a stimulating and interesting read.	2001-08-27
US	51850655	R2DREQ7QOOPRVW	0632045116	248145455	From DNA to Diversity: Molecular Genetics and the Evolution of Animal Design	Books	5	54	55	N	N	Wonderful intro to evo-devo	This is a short (about 200 pages)book, but it really is a fantastic introduction to evolutionary developmental biology.  I've had an (amateurish) interest in this for awhile, and Carroll et al really clarify basic principles in the field.  It is beautifully illustrated...full color diagrams and photos on almost every page.  The basic concept is that there is a limited set of genes (the &quot;toolkit&quot;) that control development and evolution throughout the animal kingdom.  The basic function of these genes--like the hox genes, sonic hedgehog, ubx, and so forth--is clearly explained, and examples of the evolution of their function by changes in their own, and their target genes, cis-regulatory binding sites are shown.  In depth coverage is given naturally to the fruit fly, but other insects also, and this is contrasted to the situation in vertebrate development.  A real pleasure to read!  Anybody with a college course or two in biology should find it comprehensible.  I am absolutely positive this field is going to explode in the coming years, and I am certain that this book will be an inspiration for those who will become involved in it.  If you're at all interested in the subject of the molecular mechanisms of evolution...don't hesitate to get this book!	2001-06-17
US	51850655	R1BN81K3R9E86O	0195134753	933226994	Principles of Behavioral and Cognitive Neurology	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Must read for behavioral neurologists	I won't contribute a lengthy review here...Dr. Dawson's review above is quite comprehensive.  I'm a clinical neurologist with an interest in cognitive neuroscience and dementia.  I thought the book was excellent.  Mesulam's first chapter on neuroanatomy, presented from the viewpoint of a behavioral neurologist, was particularly illuminating.  Anybody with an interest in behavioral neurology shoudn't hesitate to carefully read this great book!	2001-03-24
US	51850655	R2N968BM4NMIHL	0471183431	537425623	The Private Life of the Brain: Emotions, Consciousness, and the Secret of the Self	Books	2	54	64	N	N	Excessive neurobabble	I found this book surprisingly disappointing due to a severe lack of supporting evidence.  For example, her primary thesis--that consciousness is a function of large neural networks--is spelled out in only the vaguest of terms.  Her discussion of associated phenomena is similarly superficial...e.g. &quot;It is possible that the core problem underlying manic depression is again one of inappropriately sized neuronal networks.&quot; (p. 127)  What is an &quot;inappropriately sized&quot; network?  This is never defined.  Are any studies cited of neuronal networks in manic depression?  No, at least so far as I could tell.  This problem of inadequate analysis holds for many statements in the book.  A second example, picked at random...&quot;According to the brain model of emotion that I am suggesting pleasure is associated with unusually modest associations between neurons. (p. 129)&quot;  What on earth does this mean?  What neurons are we talking about?  Where?  How are you defining their association--electrophysiologically, by functional brain studies?  This is never discussed.    Second, some of her ideas--such as trying to equate schizophrenia with dream states--are not adequately supported in her book and certainly not in the psychiatric literature.  A while back books with excessive and poorly defined psychological topics were dismissed with the epithet of &quot;psychobabble&quot;...this book, I'm afraid, comes dangerously close to &quot;neurobabble.&quot;   Neuronal networks in relationship to consciousness are MUCH more intelligently and thoroughly discussed in Edelman and Tononi's recent (2000)book &quot;A Universe of Consciousnes.&quot;  Damasio's 1999 book, &quot;The Feeling of What Happens,&quot; represents the neurological approach to the problem of understanding consciousness and gives a much richer perspective than Dr. Greenfield's attempt.  It is my opinion that time is much better spent reading either of these two books.	2000-10-16
US	51850655	R2APUA1AT2EKED	0471979783	94209860	Evolutionary Developmental Biology of the Cerebral Cortex (Novartis Foundation Symposia)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Cutting edge neuro evo-devo	This short book (271, not 500+ pages as stated by Amazon)consists of brief review articles by leading researchers, followed by an edited Q&amp;A/discussion section that followed the presentations at a symposium held in 4/99.  Don't bother even trying to read this unless you've got a pretty good background in developmental biology, neuroanatomy, and molecular biology, as much of the book discusses how, for example, various morphogen genes like Emx1, WNT, FGF8 etc are involved in patterning brain structure.  But if this stuff turns you on, there's a wealth of information here, and the discussion sections show where the field will be headed.	2000-09-30
US	51850655	R1929G9I5FLAZF	0679763902	190687028	Time, Love, Memory: A Great Biologist and His Quest for the Origins of Behavior	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great intro to molecular and genetic neurobiology	In May 2000 the keynote speaker of the plenary session for the annual American Academy of Neurology meeting was Seymour Benzer. Why should thousands of clinical neurologists be listening to this old guy talking  about fruit fly brains?  The reasons became clear as Benzer, a soft-spoken,  self-effacing genius, gave his talk. His seminal research program has given  profound insights into the nature of circadian rhythms, memory, and many  other subjects.  There are now fruit fly models of Huntington's and  Parkinson's disease, providing insights at a subcellular and genetic level.   That's why we were listening to him, and that's why subsequently I read  this book.   I think the book provides an ideal entry, in a creative and  unusual fashion, into a history of some of the fundamental forces shaping  biomedical research today.  As a biography, we learn only a little about  Benzer, but perhaps that is inevitable as so much of his life seems to be  bound to his research.  The literary allusions may be weak at times, but  this is after all a book for a broad audience, and Weiner stimulates us to  contemplate the wider implications of scientific progress.  The book should  be readily accessible to those without a science background, and will be  highly enjoyable and informative even to those with an advanced  understanding of the intricacies of biology.	2000-07-02
US	51850655	R2I04XHLCTM3W8	0195123468	744089068	William Osler: A Life in Medicine	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Wonderful book!	Though I've never personally had much of an interest in the history of medicine, I found this book very enjoyable and inspirational.  I think all physicians will similarly feel inspired, as Osler was a shining example of  what good bedside manner can accomplish in an age where medicine was  relatively impotent, and beyond that, he was also a shining example of a  brilliant, decent and caring human being. A wonderful book, beautifully  written...I couldn't put it down, and I hope you will have the same  trouble!   Paul Dash MD  Addendum: 2-23-06 Neurology Grand Rounds at Johns Hopkins featured a lecture on Osler as a neurologist.  Osler, of course, was a guiding light at Hopkins for many years.  The speaker, Dr. Gregory Bergery, an epileptologist with a passion for the history of neurology, specifically mentioned the Bliss biography and highly praised it as the best available.  The lecture itself concerned Osler's many contributions to neurology which are underappreciated; e.g. for many years he wrote the neuro sections in his famous text Principles of Medicine prior to turning it over to Cushing, and was the first to use the term cerebral palsy in a monograph he published on the subject.  The lecture again renewed a sense of awe over what an incredible person Osler was.	2000-06-03
US	51850655	R1OCJS97JL59PM	0151003696	257848019	The Feeling of What Happens: Body and Emotion in the Making of Consciousness	Books	5	253	268	N	N	Truly a &quot;must read,&quot; albeit a first attempt	I'm a clinical neurologist myself, and familiar with Damasio's work...there's no doubt he's a first rate behavioral neurologist, who's made many original contributions on both theoretical and clinical levels to  neuroscience and neurology.  I believe his particular breakdown of  consciousness into several levels...&quot;proto&quot; &quot;core&quot;  &quot;autobiographical&quot; and &quot;extended&quot;...to be both novel  and supported by clinical evidence and intuition.   It is inaccurate to say  that Damasio equates consciousness with the reticular activating system.   In fact, he conceives &quot;core consciousness&quot;, the unadorned feeling  of self, to be a network function including not only the RAS, but the  intralaminar thalamic nuclei and cingulate and primary somatosensory  cortex.  I also disagree strongly with the reviewer who felt the ideas were  largely redundant with previous philosophical attempts at explanations of  consciousness.   Though I agree the book is at times wordy and could use  more detailed scientific backup in places, it is clearly aimed at a popular  audience.  I look forward to seeing his paradigm used in further  neuroscientific research on consciousness, and I'm convinced it will be.   This book is definitely on the right track, and one shouldn't hesitate to  read it.   I'd also note that the book is strongly endorsed by leading  scientists and philosophers, such as Eric Kandel, David Hubel, and the  Churchlands.	1999-12-11
US	51850655	R34Q0B21KKLYU5	0195125932	762914429	A Means to an End: The Biological Basis of Aging and Death	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent review of aging research for the general public	This is a very clearly written, basic book on aging research that is up-to-date. It covers the history of aging research, with particular  emphasis on Hayflick's demonstraction of replicative senesence, and gives a  fascinating speculation regarding the origin of the aging process in  eukaryotic cells as a consequence of sex.  Despite this, I really think  this is a non-technical book, as he takes time to explain even the most  basic of basics, like how nucleotides make up DNA.	1999-10-27
US	51850655	R2FSPPFWKALL7S	0863775055	836883509	Human Evolution	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Superb brief summary of human evolution	In just under 200 pages, JL Bradshaw, an Australian neuroscientist, presents a clearly written view of the evolution of the human mind.  No pop sociobiology material here; the book fairly summarizes a large amount of  research on topics ranging from the hominid fossil record to the evolution  of language, tool use and social intelligence.  If you want to get a quick  handle on these issues, this book is highly recommended.	1999-10-05
US	51850655	R22EB4Q8USJ783	0471329851	841045872	Sudden Origins: Fossils, Genes, and the Emergence of Species	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Important book, but too much history and not enough new data	Schwartz spends most of his book on the history of evolutionary theory, which is fine from the perspective of a historian of science, but then there isn't much of the book left for development of newer ideas.  Pages  are spent on Linnaeus but next to nothing on cladisitics; much detailed  attention is given to detailed reports of the first hominid fossils found,  even to Piltdown, but more recent findings are hardly mentioned, surprising  given that he is even now editing an authorative volume with Tattersall on  hominid fossils.  However, credit is due for developing the thesis that the  discontinuous fossil record is due to the relatively sudden emergence of  species from changes in regulatory molecules such as the homeobox genes.   Rudolph Raff, in The Shape of Life (an excellent book which Schwartz  quotes) previously developed the thesis that macroevolution of body plans  was dependent on these genes, but did not emphasize the discontinuous  fossil record.  Although we don't get to a discussion of the new ideas  until the last 10% of the book, nonetheless, this whole area of  evolutionary developmental genetics is of such fundamental importance that  the book is worth reading.  In the relatively near future, with new fields  such as comparative genomics (comparing entire DNA sequences of one  organism to another), and computerized analysis of developmental expression  of complete sets of cellular proteins analyzed on biochips, the promise of  reconstructing, at a molecular level, the evolutionary history of life on  earth has begun.   I'd also like to take issue with the reviewer who  thought Schwartz &quot;savaged&quot; Darwin.  He does not, though as part  of his detailed review of the early debates on evolution he quotes  scientists who do attack Darwin's ideas.  And although it's true that  actual research details on speciation and changes in homeobox genes are at  an early stage, and that Schwartz is not a researcher himself in this area,  again I think he's on the right track.  For example, see the article by  Ting et al. (Science 1998 282:1501)about a rapidly changing homeobox gene  linked to speciation in Drosophila.   Overall, I think the book is an  important one, but could have been much improved as a scientific text by  giving a broader picture of newer data and less emphasis on historical  personalities, though as written it is designed to appeal more to an  educated lay audience than to the professional.	1999-09-26
US	51850655	R117S24KYS72ZL	0716750783	845906654	Consciousness ("Scientific American" Library)	Books	4	34	34	N	N	&quot;Consciousness&quot; is  well worth reading.	&quot;Consciousness&quot; is written by a leading sleep researcher, and his discussion on the different brain states of consciousness--awake, non-REM, and REM sleep--are lucid and informative.  The answer to the old  question of &quot;how do you know you're really not dreaming when you're  awake&quot; is answered here.  His &quot;conceptual model of conscious  states&quot; using the three factors of activation, information source, and  modulation is interesting as well.  Less successful are his frequent  digressions into personal introspection, accompanied by speculation about  the internal brain processes that gave rise to them.  Nonetheless, overall  I found the book well worth reading (speaking as a neurologist) and I  imagine the general public will find much of interest here.	1999-06-20
