US	51859393	R4VQA9BGGGKDA	0399151931	752362767	Generation Kill: Devil Dogs, Iceman, Captain America and The New Face of American War	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Great book, but &quot;new face of war?&quot;	This is an exceptionally good book about a group of young Marines of the First Recon Battalion in the invasion of Iraq. The value of having a journalist actually with the troops on the ground, sharing their lives on the most intimate basis possible -- the chance of dying violently alongside them -- is inestimable. If anything it is reminiscent of the World War II reporting of Ernie Pyle. This book is an outstanding picture of combat and contains all that we know of war at the grunt level -- the indiscriminate misery of the field, the dark humor, the brotherhood, the danger, the sense that no place is safe.  <br />  <br /> The subtitle is, however, misleading. There is nothing new here except the weaponry. This is how all wars are: &quot;in the end... it was just tense young men in their late teens and early twenties with their fingers on the triggers of rifles and machineguns.&quot; The fact that it might seem &quot;new&quot; to some, including the author, is that it has been a generation since the last protracted war we had, Vietnam. Except those of us who fought it, the rigors of battle there largely forgotten. No, the Iraqi War is not new. It is only more of the same thing that warriors have always known. But in this case it is documented in outstanding fashion. <br />  <br /> This is not a perfect book. Some things in it are inaccurate. But that doesn't matter. This is a true book. And it is tribute to the spirit of the U S Marines and indeed all who go in harm's way at their country's bidding. <br />  <br /> Semper Fi and Hoo-yah!	2004-07-23
US	51859393	R3HG67KUV1I4GI	0312873433	663804540	One Giant Leap: Neil Armstrong's Stellar American Journey	Books	1	6	8	N	N	One of the worst biographies ever!	The lack of a good biography of Neil Armstrong, that is one that deals with more than just his space work, has been long anticipated. It seemed that this one, considering the dedication to Armstrong's Korean War squadron mates in VF-51, might fill the bill. Not so. <br />  <br /> To catalog all the errors in this book -- at least in the hundred or so pages I read before quitting in disgust -- would take more time and patience than I have. The errors about the aircraft alone are staggering. And sadly, dedication aside, the combat and carrier flying section are replete with errors as well.  <br />  <br /> It seems that this whole effort was cobbled together with no input from Armstrong at all. The author interviewed, it seemed, anyone he could find who might have had even a passing contact with the aviator/astronaut. Given how it was written I really expected, &quot;Joe Smith, who ate at a McDonald's once frequented by Armstrong, said...&quot; <br />  <br /> Save your money, save your time, and hope for a better book on this famous and quiet man. <br />  <br /> Note to Amazon: Is there nothing we can give lower than a 1?! This book would qualify as a &quot;no grade.&quot;	2004-07-20
US	51859393	R2WCSIM3IDZCXR	006052409X	193263222	SOAR: A Black Ops Novel	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Misnamed, but a really good read.	Having quickly tired of the Rogue Warrior series that John Weisman co-authored with Dick Marcinko, I was not too sure about reading his solo effort. I am certainly glad that I did. This is a real tale of adventure and action, and except for the obligatory (it seems) device of having a woman interjected into the mission, it reflects the sense of duty of special operations warriors. The spec op troops this time are Delta operators who are beginning to get the publicity that the SEAL community started drawing about 10 years ago when Marcinko told his story on \\"60 Minutes.\\" Since Eric Haney's book on Delta and the popularity of \\"Blackhawk Down,\\" Delta's being pulled out of the shadows. So far, the speculation about them and what they do has not been too outrageous, but I'm sure that's just around the corner.<br />Weisman's book is long on accuracy in many areas, not the least of which are tactics and weaponry. And I can personally vouch for the fact that in any critical operation, if anything is going to give you major heartburn, it will be comm problems. And comms are a problem for the Delta operators in this book... just like real life. There will be some complaints about characterizations (shallow but who needs a character's family history in a war story), stereotypes (they're stereotypes because they're true), and miltary derring do (face it: military people ARE brave and dedicated, especially those who make a career in special operations and doing the hard things their government requires).<br />No, this is a good book. Hopefully there will be others of like quality. However, why Weisman chose to name the book SOAR (an acronym for the Special Operations Aviation Regiment, the \\"Nightstalkers\\") escapes me. And a note to the publisher: find a better jacket for the next one.<br />Hoo-yah! John. And keep them coming!	2003-10-02
US	51859393	R3N42SVBX6CLCA	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Tom, it's time to quit...	Yet another entry into the \\"Jack Ryan Saves the World\\" series, only this time there are Ryan surrogates: the ex-president's son and two of his cousins who happen to be twins. This book is so bad, it almost beggars belief. It is slow, preachy, abysmally written (sample sentence: \\"Does not the Mafia know how to kill people?\\")and a complete waste of paper. At best this was a paperback thriller, one of the kind you buy at an airport kiosk, and once you read it, you leave it on the seat. This whole improbable story could have been told in about 180 pages or in a screenplay. At least had it been a movie, you wouldn't have expected a lot.<br />Now think about this: supersecret \\"black ops\\" government entity, complete with undated presidential pardons for their illegal activities and the only assassins they can find to recruit are the ex-president's cousins?! And his son, irritatingly referred to as \\"youngster\\" or by his full name time after time, works his way into the organization \\"but don't tell Dad\\" and is just a whiz at intell work? Ah, give me a break. The full name business (which W. E. Butterworth aka \\"W.E.B. Griffin\\" does all the time and it's irritating in his books too) makes one wonder if the author is being paid by the word. Also, the twin cousins have cute little nicknames which they and everyone else uses ad nauseum The conversations are stilted, preachy or patronizing and frequently use first names, i.e. \\"Well, Bill, what do you think?\\" \\"Joe, I think...\\" you get the picture. No one talks that way. Bad writers, however, write that way.<br />On the plus side, Clancy is very complimentary about the police and the military, although he really has a very, very, very simplistic view of how they operate. But kudos for combat professionals, whether on city streets or in Afghanistan, don't save this not so little (400+ pages!) novel. The book will sell, based primarily on Clancy's fan base, but surely their patience with this sort of stuff is diminishing.<br />SurelyTom Clancy doesn't need the money. It's time to push back from the old word processor and enjoy past triumphs. Spare us all more of the Ryan saga, Mr. Clancy. Ernest Gann said it best in FATE IS THE HUNTER: it's all about knowing when to quit. If this is the best you can do, Mr. Clancy, it's time.	2003-09-05
US	51859393	R2FXYKXGZ0MZYN	0312306733	85437073	Unholy Fire: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	2	8	14	N	N	Undeserved praise for historical accuracy	As mystery and conspiracy novels go, this is not a bad one. There are a number of plot threads involving the fictional Lieutenant McKittredge, the wounded hero of the Battle of Ball's Bluff, and historical figures, not the least of which are General Hooker and President Lincoln. Unfortunately, \\"not bad\\" is about the only accolade I can give.<br />There is nothing particularly original here. The relationship between McKittredge and his recruiter/mentor from the intelligence service is reminiscent of Holmes and Watson, but not as well done. The character of Hooker can be just about anything an author wants to make it for Hooker left no memoirs and died relatively young. What is known is that he had a reputation for taking care of his troops, which was laudable, but also for complaining, drinking and whoring. All of which made him legendary in the armies of both sides in the Civil War.<br />The author may know a lot about the Civil War; I expect that he does. In fact, the descriptions of wartime Washington are very good indeed.  I find it difficult to accept the plot line of having a lot of defective gun carriages changed out just before a battle, however. Maybe it could happen as quickly as the book says, but I doubt it. Granted I've never done it, but...<br />Not so good are the anachronisms. He speaks of drunken looters wearing women's clothing, including brassieres. Quite a feat since bras weren't invented until 1889 and didn't see wide use until the late 1920's. Also there is much made of ceremonies to award medals. In fact the conspiracy plot hinges on one. However, giving medals was very unusual. The most common method to recognize battle prowess was to give a brevet rank higher than the rank actually held by the soldier. Custer had brevet ranks, for example. The phrase before a battle was often \\"A brevet or a coffin!\\"<br />No, this is not as historically accurate as so many reviewers say. It is an intriguing story, pretty well told and full of speculation abouta number of things. Based on the jacket reviews on this book, I also picked up his earlier and award winning \\"Stonewall's Gold.\\" Since reading this book, I'm not going to bother with it. (Aren't there any editors out there who actually READ for accuracy any more?!)	2003-08-04
US	51859393	R2UY985TEOF3N5	0786710616	746522697	Lucky Lady: The World War II Heroics of the USS Santa Fe and Franklin	Books	3	11	15	N	N	You really want to like this book because of the people...	This is a great tale of two great ships, a very big war, a fanatical and ultimately suicidal enemy, and men of courage and resolution. It is told with a great deal of humanity and empathy and evokes a time and unity of purpose now long gone. The young sailors and airmen who fought the war in the Pacific served in the most vast war front of all. The distances they covered are almost incomprehensible... as was the savagery of the combat.<br />I read the prologue to this book and was prepared to like it, because of the people whose lives it recounts and the service they gave. The author does a masterful job of making you know these men by recounting just how they came to be on the SANTA FE and the FRANKLIN that day the kamikaze came. He is to be commended for setting of the stage and the handling of the life and death struggles that ensued.<br />But, and it is a large BUT, this is one of the most poorly edited books I have ever struggled through. It's all about the old Navy AOCS phrase, \\"Attention to detail.\\" Just a few examples: the Japanese aircraft are almost always mis-identified, unless it is the ubiquitous Zero. The allies provided code names for the Japanese aircraft. The \\"Tony,\\" \\"Frank,\\" and \\"Oscar\\" were fighters, not dive bombers. The four-engined seaplane \\"Emily\\" is also identified as a dive bomber! The gun turret in the Navy Avenger torpedo plane had a single gun, not two. The canopy on the Helldiver was not hydraulicly raised; it slid to the rear. As another reviewer pointed out, the multi-role \\"Betty\\" did not have wing guns or a belly gun. Dates, particularly in the first part of the book go to 1944, when the correct date is 1943... I could go on and on. This is just sloppy work and distracts from the reading pleasure of anyone acquainted with the facts. The argument might be \\"what does it matter sixty years later?\\" Maybe not a lot to some, but little details matter a lot in life and to staying alive for those in combat. It just reinforces the fact that noone edits for accuracy or if they do, they often have no idea about the subject matter. Sad.<br />This is a good story and has the benefit of being true. It deserves to be widely read with the understanding that it could have been outstanding with decent editing.	2003-08-04
US	51859393	RTAOQR1KZQRG	0399149732	800775483	The Pilots	Books	1	2	5	N	N	Memoir as novel? That's what the book jacket said...	From the book jacket, I know that James Spencer is a writer and has been for a long, long time. I also know that for a brief period in his life he was a B-24 pilot in the southwest Pacific during World War Two. By his own admission he flew 44 missions, some of them very long range, over trackless ocean that would have provided little if any chance for rescue had he and his crew gone down. Such combat flying is unarguably valorous, particularly in retrospect, but at the time was just the flyers' &quot;job.&quot; I know a naval aviator who flew similar solo strikes in a PB4Y-1 (the Navy version of the B-24)during the same time period of 1943 and '44 and am familiar with what such missions entailed.<br />That said, this book falls short in a number of areas, beginning with the opening section about the protagonists' early years, which is full of both unbelievable incidents and characters. From there it goes from combat flying in both bombers and fighters, life at the bases, R&amp;R in Australia and various other ruminations about &quot;what it all means.&quot; Combat flying memoirs are beginning to appear again after a long dry spell as veterans want to commit their experiences to print while they still can. Some are good but those tend to be the non-fiction ones. This book is called a &quot;memoir as a novel,&quot; which I assume means that there is at least some basis of actual related experience in a fictional context. In this case, I suppose the experience is that of serving in the 13th Air Force in the Pacific and then projecting a young aviator's now mature viewpoints into a few fictional characters? Hey, I'm reaching here, but the author admits that he thinks he should have been a fighter pilot, fantasized about P-38's and one of the characters in this book is a fighter pilot. Of course, there's bomber flying too by another character. So is this Walter Mitty stuff or real stuff that happened to others but not to the author? So this is a novel. It's really not amemoir at all any more than James Jones' FROM HERE TO ETERNITY was a memoir of his life in the pre-war Army at Schofield Barracks. <br />The truth is less elegant than the alleged new art form. This is a novel and not a very good one. A truly good memoir of South Pacific combat flying is Edwards Park's NANETTE. A truly good novel of South Pacific combat flying is Gordon Forbes' GOODBYE TO SOME. Both of these books, written by men who did the deeds, are well worth the time it might take to find them.<br />With full appreciation for Mr. Spencer's wartime service and his demonstrated writing skills, presumably non-fiction, evidenced by his having been published for years, I feel that this particular effort was substandard for war fiction... or memoir.<br />And a minor note to the publisher: the book jacket shows P-51's. While P-51's are mentioned in the author's foreward, the US aircraft in the book are B-24's and P-38's. Pictures exist for both these aircraft -- even shots of them in the Pacific theater, even shots of them together  -- so look around if this book goes to paperback.	2003-07-11
US	51859393	R38Z1KDRV5H0X7	0060082739	92035455	Gallows Thief	Books	2	3	6	N	N	A good book for the beach... and not much else.	This novel is long on period detail, full of amusing slang from the London underworld of the 1800's, replete with stock characters and is the kind of story you forget almost as soon as you've read it. Having authored the incredibly engrossing and believable Richard Sharpe novels, and some other series not as good, why Bernard Cornwell ventured into the field of &quot;period&quot; mystery is the real mystery.<br />He is a much better writer than this novel would have a first time reader of his work think. Altogether the kind of book that you'd take to the beach. If you lose it in the sand and don't get to finish it, no big deal. One thing: If you're interested in cricket, the game not the insect, you're going to learn more about it than you ever wanted to know. (For a better explanation of this unique game, I'd recommend &quot;How I Won the War&quot; by Patrick Ryan, which has the added advantage of being humorous.)	2002-07-31
US	51859393	R3PHDTUBNV6TFI	0060008350	689212205	The Shadows of Power: A Novel	Books	2	9	9	N	N	Just read it for the flying	After a great start with his first book about naval aviation, James Huston seems to be cranking out novels that are at best pot-boilers. Plots have gotten even more fantastic, dialogue (if not connected to flying) sillier and characters shallower and stereotypical. <br />This latest effort deals with a Hornet pilot who, in a confused encounter with Algerian MiGs who are enforcing their unilateral \\"no fly zone,\\" shoots down a Foxbat. Not only does he become a national hero, get recommended for a Silver Star (yes, a Silver Star), but winds up flying with the Blue Angels! All of this, just as in a comic book or bad movie, really annoys the brother of the dead Foxbat pilot. He, along with assorted terrorists, sets out to get revenge on the Navy aviator and the Blues. Oh, did I mention that there's a SEAL working with the CIA and tracking the terrorists? He is coincidentally the aviator's USNA roommate and now his personal bodyguard. On and on and on... Sadly, not much is told about the Blues other than running names and it is clear that they are just wallpaper for the story. The unbelievable conclusion at the Paris Airshow removes any doubt that none of this is to be taken very seriously. By the way, the \\"Power\\" in the title has to do with some political maneuvering in the White House and the cabinet, one of a number of sub-plots.<br />There are the now expected typos as all editing is done by machines: \\"site\\" for \\"sight,\\" for example. A read by the old \\"Mark One, Mod O\\" eyeball, operated by an actual person, would help the publishing industry.<br />All that said, the flying sequences are good. They have been in all Huston's books, including the abysmal FALLOUT, and somewhat redeem this novel. As a RIO graduate of TopGun, he knows naval aviation. Hopefully, he will take some care with his next book and produce a straight-forward account of carrier flying.	2002-07-26
US	51859393	R317367BYF1EG3	0151004749	297423476	When I Was a Young Man: A Memoir by Bob Kerrey	Books	1	8	15	N	N	A very unilluminating, ambivalent memoir	There are some memoirs that enable a reader to see and understand those factors that made the author what he became. Others, usually ghostwritten, are superficial and trivial revealing nothing of the conflicts and adversities that shape life. Bob Kerrey's memoir, like his life, seems to straddle these two styles.<br />  This book, which manages to be both shorter and longer than it needs to be, paints a not-so-pretty picture of his childhood and college life. It is interesting that his photos never show him actually smiling. He says that he was always trying to \\"do the right thing\\" and \\"be what others expected him to be.\\" Everyone does that to a greater or lesser degree. He even says that he joined the Navy to avoid the draft, but then selected schools that while admittedly tough (UDT) were also lengthy, delaying any possible deployment. He even says that he voted for Nixon because he thought that the new president would end the war in VietNam before he would have to go! All of that sounds a lot like someone who wanted to \\"wear the name but not play the game.\\" <br />  As for his brief combat deployment as a SEAL, there was apparently not much to it. The controversial \\"killing of civilians\\" mission and his Medal of Honor exploit are both handled with such a paucity of detail as to be not much more than blurry snapshots. He claims not to remember them clearly, but spends a few pages talking of the bad dreams he has as a result. Must be some remembering going on somewhere.<br />  It is interesting too, that his Teammates had recommended him for a Silver Star for the mission that cost him his leg. The Navy, he says, upgraded it to the Medal of Honor. It has long been said among the Navy Special Warfare community that it had been determined by the super heavy paygrades that the first SEAL MoH would go to an officer. A number of enlisted men, Bob Gallagher and Barry Enoch are just two examples, were awarded much deserved Navy Crosses for combat exploits that should have qualified for the MoH. Kerrey spends no little ink disparaging the idea of medals at all and says that he was encouraged to accept his MoH \\"for all the Teammates that didn't get it.\\" <br />   Granted, memories get faulty, but there are errors that could have been easily checked by any knowledgeable editor. Also, Kerrey also refuses to call his wound anything but an \\"injury,\\" even characterizing the wounds of others in his hospital ward as injuries. \\"Wounds\\" are received in combat; \\"injuries\\" come from accidents, falling of a roof, for example.<BR>   <BR>   I suspect that had the author not been an ex-senator, this book would never have seen print. It is too short and vague to be an account of something noteworthy and much too long for what it actually is. Make no mistake, Kerrey paid a lot for his actions in combat, but on balance he has done well for himself... much better than those who suffered similar wounds but lacked his education and advantages. One thing is certain too. Kerrey says that a lot of people never got the medals they deserved. And, of course, some get medals they don't deserve.	2002-07-05
US	51859393	R3H1RJ2QNFG9MW	0345447719	32141331	Raising the Hunley: The Remarkable History and Recovery of the Lost Confederate Submarine	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A marvelous book!	On 17 February 1864, the Confederate privateer submarine HUNLEY, then called a &quot;fish-boat&quot; or &quot;torpedo boat,&quot; crewed by eight volunteers successfully attacked and sank a Union blockade ship off Charleston... and disappeared. This marvelous book recounts not only the history of the first successful attack submarine, but the mystery surrounding it. The story of the search for the ship, its discovery and its astounding recovery is documented, along with introducing the reader to a fascinating cast of characters involved in this real-life drama.<br />  Even if you have little interest in history, this is still a book well worth your time. It is frequently, and often not accurately, said of non-fiction that &quot;it reads like a novel.&quot; This book really does. The story is not only well told, but the pacing of the story and character development is strong. That journalists, who are known for dry prose, could produce a book like this is refreshing. One thing I particularly liked were the brief biographies of the main characters that appear at the end, a sort of &quot;what happened to them after this story.&quot;<br />  I won't belabor the facts revealed about the submarine (many), the attack (requiring incredible courage), or the people (combatants, searchers, and archaeologists) or the possible solutions to the mysteries surrounding this fabled ship. It is so rare to find a book today that is well-written, informative, compulsively readable. This book is all that, plus just down right entertaining. This book is a treasure. Read it!	2002-05-02
US	51859393	R1958NY349TJYN	0380978040	538947248	One Perfect Op: An Insider's Account of the Navy Seal Special Warfare Teams	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Sea stories, and not badly told	SEALs have gone from being the least known of the quiet professionals of Special Operations to the most publicized. So much so that far too many wannabes claim to have been SEALs; before Marcinko's original book, they all claimed to have been Special Forces troopers! This book is by a man who served honorably and well and was \\"the real deal.\\"<br />The book is a chronological account of Command Master Chief Chalker's service and is  basically a collection of sea stories. He saw combat in Grenada and his account of it is good, straight-forward and unembellished. One of the refreshing things about this book is that SEALs are not presented as infallible, invincible warriors. However, if they foul something up, they rarely repeat the mistake. CMC Chalker's account of blowing a dynamic entry on a hostage rescue has the absolute ring of authenticity, and shows that you can overcome initial mistakes. He also worked with the Navy Mammal Project, where he tested his ability against \\"attack\\" dolphins. What an experience! The only minor gripe is that dates are frequently wrong. The shootings at Kent State happened in 1970 not 1972, for example. Better editing could have prevented mistakes like that.<br />I have been privileged to know and work with many SEALs and even went through counter-insurgency school with one of CMC Chalker's boat crew mates from BUD/S. The real value of the book is in its recounting of special operations and warrior philosophy -- the things that make SEALs, SWAT cops and other spec ops operators do what they do. There's some good leadership messages there too, not to mention sound advice on security measures that are particularly relevant to this post 9/11 world.<br />\\"Here's to it...\\" Hoo-yah!	2002-04-26
US	51859393	RLRJNP9CIICXT	0312280181	394449017	Warning of War: A Novel	Books	2	15	21	N	N	Stick to non-fiction, Mr. Brady	If an author is going to write military fiction, it should be assumed that the readers who pick up their book have more than a passing interest in military history. And that's the problem here. Once again, I want to stress that I realize that this is a novel, but Brady insists on inserting real characters and locations and so it is jarring when inaccuracies occur. <br />  For example, he has Captain Billy Port, the derring-do hero, ask about air cover for his intrepid band of Marines as they embark on their mission. You guessed it. The Flying Tigers are mentioned (after all, the setting is China and everyone is familiar with Chennault's fliers) and their reputation for fighting discussed -- in spite of the fact that the Flying Tigers were not operational until after the outbreak of war. Further, having been stationed in Shanghai, Port should have known about the lack of available air cover. There are other errors too as he tries to broadbrush the early war in the Pacific. His mentioning other battlefronts like Singapore, the Phillipines and Wake Island is both gratuitous and frequently wrong as he misrepresents what happened there. Doesn't anyone edit for facts anymore?<br />The story also plods in the middle. Oh, there are occasional fire fights, strafings and run-ins with bandit warlords. But there are far too many stock characters. This novel has the plot of a B-movie or a Saturday matinee serial, albeit a shambling one. I have to admit though, Port's unexpected decapitation of a warlord is a nice scene and good touch to highlight that, as Chesty Puller allegedly said of Port, he is a &quot;good killer.&quot;<br />I have no doubt that this book will sell well and, who knows, might even become a movie. If it does, the script will need some doctoring up. Brady wrote an excellent Korean War memoir and I recommend it. However, he should leave fiction alone. Of course, the fault my be mine. I have a tremendous respect for the Marines and their exploits and to see themlackadaisically treated, even in fiction and by one of their own no less, offends me.<br />One last issue. The book jacket contains a blurb by Dan Rather (yes, that Dan Rather), who compares the novel to something by Hemingway or Clancy. It is painfully clear that Rather has read neither of those authors! The only similarities that I can find is that printed words are used to tell the story and both of the aforementioned authors wrote novels too. Come to think of it, maybe that's what he meant... Surely he wasn't comparing style or pace.	2002-04-24
US	51859393	R1DZ6ROBFD1I8F	0380977508	692396631	A World of Thieves: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A swashbuckler set in the late '20's	Instead of horses, they use cars and instead of swords, they have guns, but this picaresque novel harkens back to the swashbucklers of the past. It is a tale of a young man, his twin uncles and their life as armed robbers in the southwest of the 1920's. <br />All of the characters are interesting: the youthful protagonist Sonny with worldliness that belies his years and whose \\"nature\\" makes him an armed robber; the twins Russell and Buck who served honorably in the Great War, but chose robbery for the thrills (and the money); the women, whores, molls and accomplices; the \\"professional\\" criminals; and the implacable, violent pursuer. Some of these are stock characters, the criminals are all rather likeable and the prison guards sadistic, but the author handles then with a deftness that is never dull. The book is full of period touches and is probably an accurate picture of the time and place. <br />The only shame is that the heroes are criminals whose activities cost innocent people their lives. There is no justification for the crimes other than that it is what the La Salle boys want to do and that it is easier than working for the things they want. As one character opines, \\"Robbery is supposed to be risky. Otherwise everyone would do it.\\" Sonny, Buck and Russell are charming, brave and funny, but they ARE criminals not noble fighters against tyranny. But, hey, it's a novel not a social science tract.<br />This is a book meant for film and the scriptwriters wouldn't need to change a thing. It was an enjoyable read, full of great scenes, memorable if not admirable characters, an evocation of a brief turbulent and violent time now quickly fading from memory. Well done, Mr. Blake!	2002-03-18
US	51859393	RVFF56ZEDZVM0	1557502900	281658099	Fire on the Hangar Deck: Ordeal of the Oriskany	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A graphic picture of those in peril on the sea...	The hangar deck fire that cost the lives of 44 men on the USS ORISKANY is little known to most. It was the first of three fires aboard carriers operating in the Tonkin Gulf during the VietNam war and in comparison to the other two, the loss of life was small. The other two fires, on board the FORRESTAL and the ENTERPRISE, began on the flight decks and so were captured on film by the PLAT cameras. The ORISKANY's trial by fire began in a stowage space, below decks, just after dawn. The casualties were 36 officers, almost all aviators, and 8 enlisted men. The aviators died in their rooms, asphyxiated by smoke and then, in some instances, burned.<br />CAPT Foster served aboard the ORISKANY with VA-163, an attack squadron, and had left the ship shortly before the fire after being wounded, so he writes feelingly of men and a ship he knew.<BR>This is far from just a documentation of a tragic event, made doubly so by the fact that it stemmed from an accident. Losses are expected in combat, but not from misadventure and the shock was intense for the air wing and ship's company. Like all naval vessels, there were countless drills for fire at sea, but when the real thing happened, it was first broadcast over the 1MC as a \\"drill.\\" Five sailors may have died because they made no attempt to leave a threatened space, thinking it was just a practice; they were found asphyxiated.<br />The culprit in this incident was a Mark 24 Mod 3 aerial flare that was mishandled by two young, and as it turned out, poorly trained sailors. It was accidentally ignited and in a panic move, thrown into a locker containing even more flares. As the flares burn at 4,500 degrees, there was no easy way to extinguish them and the fire raged.<br />The book contains details of the ship and portraits of the men, both victims and survivors. One particularly poignant story is that of an aviator who lost contact with his roommate in the smoke filled passageways, blamed himself for his buddy's death, and then washimself killed in action a year later. The story of Dick Bellinger, skipper of VF-162, and his escape through a 14\\" porthole is legendary and is retold here.<br />The investigation that followed the fire is also recounted and there is much about the Navy's bedrock value of command responsibility. There have been other books with accounts of this fire included but this is the first full treatment of it and is long overdue. CAPT Foster has done an excellent job of reminding everyone that not all the dangers in carrier aviation are in the sky. Bravo Zulu, Captain Hook!	2002-03-14
US	51859393	R1WOGWOIUCANZV	1893554244	392253978	The Eleven Days of Christmas: America's Last Vietnam Battle	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An excellent picture of combat and command	This is a fascinating and well-written picture of the final major air campaign of the VietNam war. Like Waterloo, it was \\"a close run thing.\\" Linebacker II, which began on 18 December 1972 (hence the book title) saw the wide use of the B-52 against targets in North VietNam and thrust the bomber crews into a combat environment they were ill-prepared to survive. The strongly held belief that the Strategic Air Command could do anything and win any war was tested to the extreme. Not only were the SAC tactics found to be unsuitable for the mass bombing war they found themselves in, but the micromanaging from SAC headquarters almost assured their destruction. For example, the required \\"post target turn,\\" a steep bank away from the target used in nuclear strikes, blanked the B-52 electronic countermeasure arrays and made them sitting ducks for the NVA SAMs. The differences in the -D and -G model bombers and their dangerous shortcomings in the North VietNamese theater are documented. Add that to flying the same mission profile at the same times... the miracle is that the losses weren't higher.<BR>  <BR>   This is an even-handed account and reveals much about how the North VietNamese fought their war. They saw themselves as being at the mercy of the B-52s and were literally incredulous when they actually shot their first one down.<BR>  <BR>   The politics of the war are not neglected either. The campaign was rushed so that it could be accomplished while an increasingly non-supportive Congress was on recess and over the objections of the secretary of defense. There were command failures too and they are recounted. Hesitancy, distance from the battle and inflexibility by commanders are almost always fatal combinations. As usual, it was the aircrews and other combatants who paid the price. <br />  This book also has the advantage of being written by a former F-4 pilot who flew during the campaign, but there is not TAC vs. SAC slant. There is even an appendix that deals with the\\"urban legends\\" that have grown from the campaign. It is a great story of brave men who were given a hard task, hampered by their own commanders and a largely critical homefront, and who persevered against incredible odds.	2002-02-04
US	51859393	R1WPVQCYS72WA	0609607103	229997903	The Warrior Elite : The Forging of Seal Class 228	Books	5	8	10	N	N	&quot;The Warrior Elite&quot; is a tribute to SEALs and an apt title	CAPT Couch's account of the officers and men of BUD/S Class 228 is a masterpiece. The class, which began with 147 members and ended with only 10 original members graduating, is followed from Indoc through all three training phases to graduation and beyond. BUD/S training is the most strenuous and demanding in all the world's military and completing it is the first requirement for those aspiring to be SEALs. What most who have no experience with Navy Special Warfare don't know is that just finishing BUD/S does not make one a SEAL. The training, as CAPT Couch shows, never stops. Once assigned to a Team, there is still a probationary period and failing to meet standards can lead to expulsion. Gaining the coveted Trident (the SEAL pin, also called &quot;The Bird&quot;) is no sure thing either; the fledgling warriors having to pass a review board of their peers.<BR>This is not just another &quot;gosh, what harsh training!&quot; book. Told in a straight-forward style, the process is presented for what it is with no embellishment or histrionics. As good as the training descriptions are, the last chapter and epilogue are almost perfect evocations of the warrior ethos, its development, future and nurturing by leaders who have all been tested in the same way. The value of the experienced chiefs and senior petty officers is highlighted; truly they are the institutional knowledge of the Teams. <BR>The SEALs I have known and worked with were all quiet professionals, dedicated men who did the hard things that their country demanded. The younger SEALs are the same: willing to go in harm's way, to risk death for all the right reasons. They are truly an elite, even among the other special operations forces. This book lets you know how they got to be the way they are.<BR>HOOYAH!	2001-11-29
US	51859393	R3VGGO8IKQQ54D	037550544X	891968631	A Soldier's Duty: A Novel	Books	2	12	17	N	N	Don't read it for the plot...	Thomas Ricks is the author of one of the finest books on the Marine Corps ever written, &quot;Making the Corps,&quot; dealing as it does with the core beliefs of duty and honor. The novel he has written tries to do the same thing. In this instance, he should have stuck to non-fiction.<br />The novel is primarily about a conflict of conscience and duty among the Army of 2004. Much as was done in the past ten years, the military finds itself sent on missions it is ill-prepared to perform and all for political purposes. In this book, the mission is to Afghanistan, a place where the armies of both Great Britain and the Soviet Union met defeat. The &quot;peace keeping&quot; mission proves costly to the National Guard unit tasked with it. The misuse of the military is the pivotal event of the book, pitting the traditionalist officers, exemplified by the Army Chief of Staff, and the junior officers, adeptly stage-managed by an ambitious general, who will have to do the fighting and dying. The two protagonists, both Army majors -- one male and one female -- are on staff at the Pentagon, and you guessed it, work for the rival generals. Some male writers handle women characters well; Mr. Ricks does not. Except for having the two majors have sexual encounters, there was no need for one of the characters to even be a woman as it did nothing to advance the story. No, these two officers could have been any two officers as there was no deep character development here.<br />Mr. Ricks raises some interesting and vital points in the novel, not the least of which are the proper ways to use and lead the military. Sadly, he resolves none of the issues he raises and when the novel drops into murder and conspiracy at the highest levels, it fails on those levels as well.<br />However, the book does contain excellent instruction on leadership and duty. What he says about duty and honor and caring for your troops are the real reason for reading this book. All of us who have had the honor ofcommanding troops have at one time or another faced the conflict of loyalty to a superior whose orders conflict with the well being of those we command. As Sun Tzu said, treat them as your own beloved sons. Frequently it seems the higher someone goes in the chain-of-command, the more that tenet is disregarded.    A better novel is James Webb's &quot;Something to Die For&quot; which also addresses the proper use of the military and how duty and honor impact it. No, don't read this book for the plot. Do read it for what is says about leadership and if wading through a bad story is the price for finding the gold nuggets hidden there, it's worth it.	2001-06-20
US	51859393	R2ARAJKB6Q58LP	0345436172	785008012	Hunting Warbirds: The Obsessive Quest for the Lost Aircraft of World War II	Books	2	8	10	N	N	An extended magazine article...	Any book that purports to be about obsession automatically attracts those that share the particular obsession. Unfortunately for the author of this book about collecting and preserving warbirds, a lot of the readers already know a lot about the subject and are quick to note his errors. Mr. Hoffman is a capable enough writer, but his knowledge of World War II aircraft is limited at best. He has been extraordinarily lucky in that he has been allowed to enter the world of the warbird collector and was paid to do so. Sadly, his enthusiasm is that of the professional magazine writer: get some facts, cobble them together with some character sketches, get it published and then move on to something else. The book has the feel of an extended magazine article as the chapters bounce back and forth between the efforts to recover a B-29 from Greenland and other warbird collecting stories. It's one long article on the B-29 and a series of short articles, none of which are particularly satisfying. I won't belabor the errors in nomenclature or descriptions of the warbirds other than to say that they are annoying to anyone who really does know the subject. This was a nice try, but the topic of collecting and preserving historic aircraft deserves better. Someone like the late Ernie Gann could have really done a great job with this subject.	2001-05-29
US	51859393	R37VW3RJ5HJDWE	0471333646	85984584	Jeff Davis's Own: Cavalry, Comanches, and the Battle for the Texas Frontier	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A fascinating account of the pre-Civil War army.	It is fairly unusual to find a military history book that breaks new ground about the men who fought as commanders in the Civil War. Best known for their exploits as either Union or Confederate leaders, the events that shaped the lives of these men are seldom chronicled. This well-written, well-researched book not only talks about the men but also the army of the pre-Civil War years.<br />The title refers to the U.S. 2d Cavalry, formed in the 1850's to fight the Comanches on the the Texas frontier. Jefferson Davis was the Secretary of War and hand-picked his officers for what became an elite body of mounted soldiers. Known as &quot;Jeff Davis's Own&quot; because of his patronage, the 2d Cavalry got the best of everything available and their promotions were done outside the normal Army channels. Some of the men, like Robert E. Lee, had fought in the Mexican War of 1846 but the combat veterans also served along young officers eager to prove themselves in battle and win both brevets and glory.<br />The 2d Cavalry found itself fighting a resourceful and clever enemy, the Comanches, and learned hard lessons about conventional tactics being used against unconventional forces. Indeed, the parallels between the 2d Cavalry's campaign against the &quot;guerrillas&quot; of the Texas frontier and Vietnam are startling... and very well presented. Just as in Vietnam, the Army adapted and in vicious fights, frequently without quarter, began to prevail. It was a triumph of small, dedicated groups of soldiers being used effectively by officers who lead from the front.<br />Almost all of the officers of the 2d Cavalry became generals during the Civil War, some dying in battle. The book tells of the personal anguish these professional soldiers felt at having to decide whether to stay with the United States Army or go to the Confederacy. These were hard men who made hard choices, both on the battlefields of the frontier, facing one of the harshest climates in the world, and about the future course of their county.<br />An excellent, excellent book. James Arnold has done a great service with this fascinating, even-handed and detailed account of the 2d Cavalry, &quot;Jeff Davis's Own.&quot;	2001-02-06
US	51859393	R1ZS0QFC2QZFIY	1574882414	804198655	The Outpost War:  U.S. Marines in Korea, Vol. 1: 1952	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A long overdue history.	A Marine Korean War combat veteran, Lee Ballenger has gone far toward filling a major gap in the history of the &quot;forgotten war.&quot; Almost all Korean War books dealing with the Marine Corps are about the epic fighting withdrawal from the Chosin. It would almost seem that the stalemate that followed was not worth mentioning. In fact, when the 1st Marine Division was assigned responsibility for western Korea in an extended front known as the Jamestown Line, there was almost constant sharp fighting. The difference was that the conflict was rarely on a grand scale, but rather sharp, short, and vicious fights, often hand to hand. This book is the first of two volumes to chronicle the Marines and their new kind of war. Trained to assault and aggressively attack, the Marines found themselves in static positions, frequently patrolling, but most often in defensive battles for outposts.<br />This is a very good book and long overdue. Most of the information in it is seeing print for the first time and the personal accounts of the fighting are well presented. One of the better recollections is LT William Watson's account of the fighting on Bunker Hill and the Hook. Also of interest was the use of armor in the fighting and patrolling. <br />Like my war, Vietnam, Korea saw a lot of responsibility placed on the shoulders of young sergeants and lieutenants and the very young grunts. Even the upper level mismanagement (I won't dignify it by calling it leadership) was reminiscent of Vietnam. This book is a valuable recounting of a neglected part of our military heritage, a time when the property fought for was not as important as the killing done to hold or retake it. Any Marine-- indeed, any American -- should be proud what was done in the Outpost War. Semper Fi, Mr. Ballenger. I look forward to Volume Two.	2000-10-31
US	51859393	R1090AMZZWLMW1	0688164552	250477575	Hot Shots: An Oral History of the Air Force Combat Pilots of the Korean War	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Really disappointing	This is one of those books where you applaud the effort but deplore the execution. The need for more air war histories certainly exists, particularly as the participants are being removed by time, before first  hand accounts fade. The trend in history books now seems to be  &quot;editing&quot; such oral accounts, but as seems to be the case here it  is done by those having little real knowledge of the subject matter. The  Korean air war is important for a number of reasons, not the least of which  was the development of air combat tactics with jet aircraft, and was a time  when the warriors of the last war were side by side with the new breed,  some of whom would fly in Vietnam. This book does not do the subject  justice. Take the photos: they are poorly reproduced and often  mis-captioned (F-80's labeled F-84's, F-94's labeled F-84's, etc.) It also  appears that when one of the interviewees used an acronym (RTU) the editors  didn't know -- or ask, apparently -- what it meant, so they made something  up. &quot;Reconaissance Technical Unit&quot; indeed! Try &quot;Replacement  Training Unit.&quot; Further, a lot of time is spent on the exploits of the  ground supporting F-51's and that's okay, but this was the first jet war.  The Mig Alley battles are given short shrift and it's almost like 1952  didn't occur at all! However, I think that the story of double ace Hal  Fischer's shoot down and imprisonment is worth a book in itself (hopefully  by someone else) and takes up the last quarter of this book. There are  precious few books out there about the Korean air war, but all of them are  better than this one. Give it a pass.	2000-07-24
US	51859393	R2K5FK23IAGZ57	0060196300	923972028	U.S.S. Seawolf	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Pure Saturday matinee, but duller.	I somewhat shamefacedly admit to being caught by the jacket blurbs on this latest effort of Mr. Robinson's and by the dedication to SEALs and special operations. So it was with some hopefulness that I read the book. I had  previously attempted his earlier works, but found them so ridiculous that I  couldn't go on. In this case after the first few chapters I developed a  case of &quot;Oh, come on&quot; followed by &quot;Give me a break!&quot;  Like the earlier works, I found this novel to be juvenile and the plot and  characters unbelievable. Take for example the XO of the SEAWOLF who is  depicted as going to panic stations at the drop of a hat. Not only is he no  support at all to the skipper but we're asked to believe he's also some  sort of CIA operative? In the first place, nuclear boat crews are very  carefully screened and someone with the propensities demonstrated by this  character would never be aboard, much less in a position as critical as an  XO. But, hey, it's just a novel, right? Another problem is that it is  abundantly clear that Mr. Robinson knows very little about the U. S. Navy's  ranks or the responsibilities of its sailors and officers. Not only are  most of the ranks abbreviated incorrectly, but he also seems to want to use  Royal Navy terms for the US job functions. &quot;Captain's writer&quot;  instead of &quot;yeoman,&quot; for example. I won't even begin to catalogue  the inaccuracies with the SEALs, although I did find the idea of a team  skipper having another officer as a &quot;bodyguard&quot; particularly  annoying. Doesn't anyone read for accuracy before these novels are  published? In any event, this is like a kid's Saturday matinee movie, but  duller... and too long for what it is. I know that Mr. Robinson will  continue to make money with these yarns, but I would suggest that he deal  with the Royal Navy and make the characters British, because surely he  understands them better, and offer the reading public something more  realistic, escapist or not.	2000-07-06
US	51859393	R3IQ07POSBY76A	0553110241	754337216	Drop Zone	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Ah, come on.....	I have been privileged to know one of the original PJ's for many years and so it was with eagerness that I picked up this novel about this often overlooked unit in special operations. What a disappointment! From the  beginning sequence, the liberation of a Kuwati airfield presumably during  the Gulf War but dated 1989 (which was before war began -- even before  Panama), the story begins a rapid descent to impact. Just for an example:  the Air Force has always had the reputation for being rather casual about  military courtesy, but to rarely if ever have any of the characters  addressed by anything but their first names instead of ranks is a bit much.  Granted, in Spec Ops units the O's and E's frequently use nicknames or  given names because they work so closely together, but not around outsiders  and they always recognize the rank and its attendant responsibilities.  Special Operations is not a pick-up ball game. You don't choose a couple of  guys, give them a brief, train them some and then drop them behind the  lines. And sending only two operators? Here the novel would have you  believe that only this particular PJ and a Recon Marine can perform this  secret mission -- two guys with not much more than a nodding acquaintance  and never having worked together. The super-secret Brothers of Death group  is just more comic book stuff. Acronyms and technical jargon don't rescue  this novel from being just another attempt at giving the public what they  believe covert ops are like. The truth is that the operators are many  things but mostly low-key professionals. Undoubtedly, the book will be well  received by those who love escapist literature loosely placed in a military  framework. For those who want more substance and reality, avoid this book.	2000-07-05
US	51859393	R22RCXXVPMXUIJ	0312262000	27213501	The Marines of Autumn: A Novel of the Korean War	Books	2	29	36	N	N	A great title, but....	Having read Brady's earlier non-fiction account of his combat tour in Korea, &quot;The Coldest War,&quot; I was eager to read his novel of the war. Within the first couple of pages, I knew there might be problems. The  height of the Taebek mountains was listed as 25,000 meters! (Does no one  ever check manuscripts for errors like that?)What followed that brief  prologue to set the stage for the fighting withdrawal of the Marines from  the Chosin was very disappointing. I should have gotten a hint when Brady  said that he had not taken part in the Chosin campaign but had gotten to  Korea afterward. To his credit, Brady does not actually have his  protagonist handle troops; he is basically an intellectual observer who,  when not reminiscing about his deceased wife, simply reports things. He  drops in and out of staff meetings, rubbing shoulders with the real  personalities of the campaign, much as Pug Henry did in Wouk's &quot;Winds  of War.&quot; This leaves the feeling that Captain Tom Verity is a part of  things... but not really. The descriptions of war in the cold are indeed  harrowing and it makes me gladder than ever that my war was one of Asian  heat. I am sure that words never adequately convey what it was like to deal  with the numbing cold and with combat as well. And that is a problem with  this book -- it is dull. Character development is not extensive, but  perhaps it doesn't need to be. The Chosin withdrawal is really the story  and Verity and the others seem almost tangential to it. As for characters,  that of the daughter is almost completely unbelivable, acting and speaking  far above her stated age. In short, Brady's non-fiction book, recently  re-issued, is what you should read. For better novels on the Chosin, Ernest  Frankel's &quot;Band of Brothers&quot; written in the late '50's, or  Simmons' recent &quot;Dog Company Six&quot; have the advantage of being  penned by authors who actually took part in the campaign. The best thing  about this novelwas its title. The Chosin campaign was an epic of brave  endurance for the Marines. This novel hardly deserves the label of  &quot;epic&quot; in recounting it.	2000-06-26
US	51859393	R228SK4SNG30GX	0688172016	561376189	Flash Point: A Novel	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Was this a first novel?	Although this is Huston's third published work, it reads as if it was a first book. There are references to plot lines from  the first two works, but still it seems from the awkward pacing that this was a first attempt.  If not, it was rushed into print to capitalize on the success of the first  two novels. Basically, the plot is the same: congress declares war, with or  without the president to avenge a wrong done to the country or citizens of  it. In this case, the citizen is a naval aviator, murdered with an Israeli  national in a terrorist attack. The story is farfetched to begin with but  gets even more fantastic as it goes along. Granted, the flying is good. I  have spent enough time in ready rooms to tell you that the dialogue  recounted there is right, even to giving reminders about fit reps and  evals. But out of the air, the book falters. The fact that a junior  officer, even if he is a fourth tour 0-3 and a really hot stick, manages to  almost single-handedly propel his battle group into a war is the stuff of  B-movies. The terrorist leader is melodramatic in the extreme, secreted in  his mountain sanctuary much as the Crimson Ghost was in the movie serials  of the '40's. Even the climactic final mission is predictable and  astonishingly mundane, given the big build-up. No, this is not great  military fiction, but it does have a lot of details, both in the air and on  the carrier, that lets you know that Huston knows naval aviation. The novel  is, given how it wanders around, about 100 pages too long. I hope that he  abandons this &quot;letter of reprisal&quot; war declaration plot device  and just does a straightforward book about carrier aviators. That would be  exciting enough and give them the dignity of having them be more than comic  book heroes.	2000-06-26
US	51859393	R19YFSY2GI1Z9M	1555878555	55312982	Doughboy War: The American Expeditionary Force in World War I	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A gripping portrait of war	It has become fashionable for writers to do oral histories of events. In this case, James Hallas has done a masterful job of weaving the memoirs of World War One veterans into a seamless tapestry that encompasses the  experience of that war from call-up to homecoming. His selections are  flawless and it is fortunate that a body of literature dealing with the  inappropriately named  &quot;war to end all wars&quot; exists, that some of  the veterans -- a large number of whom were enlisted men -- chose to put  their experience in writing. Considering that a large number of the  soldiers were recent immigrants and that almost 13% who served were  illiterate, the wealth of writing is impressive. The war was truly an  everyman's endeavor with those from all walks of life serving.  Interestingly, two thirds of those who went overseas in World War One saw  combat. And what combat it was! Little understanding the damage that modern  machines of war could do, the slaughter in the battles was a direct result  of tacticians who didn't realize that the combination of barbed wire and  grazing machine gun fire, not to mention artillery, would almost completely  annihilate attacking troops. There was still hand to hand combat and  bayonets were frequently used, in contrast to later conflicts. <br />Even  though the United States did not enter the war until April 1917 and didn't  engage in battle until the fall of that year, war's end saw over 80,000  killed in action. The poignancy of having friends buried in shallow graves  on the battle fields, or seeing them mangled or &quot;blown to atoms&quot;  by shellfire is recounted. As if the horrors of the warfare were not  enough, the influenza epidemic killed thousands in 1918. The doughboy's war  is vividly portrayed by these carefully edited anecdotes and should serve  as a reminder of all those men who went to France &quot;to make the world  safe for democracy.&quot; These verbal vignettes open a window on the past  and as they arestrung together with historical commentary by the editor  are extraordinarily gripping. That the experiences of these warriors is  collected is a great service to all Americans. As Mr. Hallas notes,  &quot;Their experience remained uniquely theirs, a cup both bitter and  sweet to be shared most fully only with one another.&quot;<br />Get this book,  read it and be grateful for those for whom duty was more than just a word.	2000-06-06
US	51859393	R2UTYX43N18OZU	037540838X	133200343	Run	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Lights! Camera! etc.	This is a wild rollercoaster of a book, loaded with improbabilities, minus any sort of character development, and great to spend time with if you have nothing else to do. This is the kind of action novel that in the past would  have been published in paperback and sold in bus stations or airports. The  sort of novel that if you leave it behind, you've not really lost anything.  Not great literature, but very cinematic. It is so full of action, albeit  unbelievable, that you never really get around to the quizzical  &quot;Whaaat?&quot; until it's all over. The book, about an anti-hero gun  smuggler (he tells you right up front he's not a good guy in case you're  too dense to figure it out) who is the patsy in a political assassination.  And the chase is on! All of the characters are stereotypes, but if you like  guns, you'll love the detail devoted to all manner of weaponry. This is  obviously meant to be a movie -- a summer movie -- and would be a good  Bruce Willis, Nicholas Cage, or George Clooney vehicle. No love interest to  slow the pace, but vast amounts of literary gunpowder is burned. It is also  abundantly clear that the author, while he might have seen someone who was  shot, has never seen anyone being shot. Note for a follow-up book: not  every head shot looks like the Zapruder film. Further, blood comes after a  bullet strike in the body, not simultaneously with it; so those sprays of  blood so beloved by movies are exaggerated. But like I said, this is really  a movie between cardboard covers. But the author, an attorney, is pretty  clever about one thing: the anti-gun message, ie. too many people have  them, is only really obvious at the end. And what's this latest affectation  of not using quotation marks for dialogue? This is the second book I've  seen in a week that didn't use quotation marks. A new editorial fashion  being born? One good line, however: Good soldiers do what they're told  until they get wise or die. All in all a fast, forgettable read. Why not  just wait for the movie.	2000-05-25
US	51859393	R2WVTVQCCFX8E6	0684847841	784765879	Fast Movers: Jet Pilots and the Vietnam Experience	Books	1	21	28	N	N	&quot;History?&quot; Well, sort of...	Having waded through the author's previous work on Korean fighter pilots, it was with some hesitation that I read this book. In effect, it is a continuation of his explication of the &quot;flight suit culture&quot; of  military aviators and how they fly and fight. It is also a  semi-psychological profile of jet aviators. Having been through Navy flight  training, I can attest first hand to the status of jet aviators in the  services. I was particularly dismayed by the almost complete lack of  acknowledgement of the Navy light attack community, the A4s and A7s. I say  &quot;almost&quot; because the story of Mike Estocin, an A4 pilot of VA-192  who won the Medal of Honor posthumously, is told as an adjunct to the story  of F8 driver and Mig killer John Nichols. That this is a sort of history is  undeniable. It tells of the US involvement in the Vietnam war and the  horrid mismanagement of it. The trouble is that it is so anecdotal that it  appears that only those oral accounts that support the author's point of  view are included. Some aviators of the era come off very badly in the  stories told and others seem almost fictionally perfect. Some of the prose  is melodramatic in the extreme as if writing the facts alone wouldn't be  exciting enough. This is, too, almost exclusively an Air Force book and  because of that, balance is lacking. Of course, the book is short, but to  leave out the fact that the Navy had an ace too is incomprehensible. I was  interested to find the background of thriller novelist Tom Wilson in the  book; he was a Wild Weasel backseater, which accounts for the accuracy in  his early books. The section on the POWs was, again, a reinforcement of the  author's perception of flight suit culture. While interesting, that section  was nothing new and has been better done in other works.<br />All in all, less  pretension and simply telling the aviators' stories with minimal  explication would have made a better history book. What this means is that  thedefinitive history of flight ops in Vietnam has yet to be written.  Hopefully this book will stir someone to do it right.	2000-04-03
US	51859393	R226VUOZNB0GPK	0465007376	228877996	Intimate History Of Killing	Books	1	49	59	N	N	Not worth the time...	This rather massive book is long on notes, which gives the impression of careful study, but in fact is not much for substance. There is nothing new here. Men -- and women -- are involved in fighting and killing; some are  heroic in every sense and others commit atrocities. They all participate in  warfare for what they believe are valid and worthwhile reasons. Their  perceptions are molded in part by the books they read, the stories they  hear, and in the latter part of the century, what they see in movies or on  television. One reviewer on the book jacket claimed that this was  &quot;good revisionist history.&quot; How? Is it that we now realize that  there is really not much glory in warfare, no matter how necessary conflict  may sometimes be? That frightened people under incredible stress sometimes  react badly? No, nothing new here nor terribly revisionist either. Ms.  Bourke dwells a lot on barbarous acts, the mutilation of bodies being just  one example. Much is made of &quot;necklaces of ears&quot; or of other body  parts taken and flaunted in accounts of the Vietnam war. Having served  there, I can assure the author that we all smelled bad enough without  carrying around or wearing body parts of enemy dead. That it was done is  somehow seen as common rather than the very rare aberration it actually  was. Just one of the many myths of that war fostered by writers who, even  if veterans, have their own agenda: the war was not bad enough just by  itself, they have to make it even more horrible. The book also suffers from  poor editing. Names are wrong, and the index not always accurate. Lastly,  the author is drawing her conclusions (that fit her preconceived notions?)  from excerpts from various books on the two world wars and Vietnam. Each of  those books is a personal view and sometimes reflects ONLY that  participant's perception. Ms. Bourke seems to find universal truths in that  approach, but I feel it is rather a leap. Which brings me to the only  reallygood thing about this book: it has a marvelous bibliography. My  advice to readers is to seek some of those books out. As for killing and  how it's done, taught, and thought of, Dave Grossman does it much better  with his masterful  ON KILLING.	2000-02-28
US	51859393	R3R5KP668HJ7U	0813121159	593232059	With the Tigers over China, 1941-1942	Books	2	9	9	N	N	Not really about the Flying Tigers...	This slender volume is a bit of a disappointment. It is not really a book about the Flying Tigers, but a book about books about the Flying Tigers. Yet it is not really that either, but more a book about books about the air  war in Burma and China in 1941 and '42. Each of the chapters has the read  and feel of a term paper done on a specific topic. Oh, yes, there's some  history here but it is secondary to the literary critique of books written  by participants in the air war in Burma and China. Having read most of the  books referenced, I found the author's labored recounting of anecdotes from  them rather tedious. The tedium was not even relieved by having a good  selection of photos. The photos that do appear are not accurately  captioned. The book also suffers from poor editing. In one glaring example,  the American Volunteer Group (the true name for the Flying Tigers) is  referred to as the &quot;American Volunteer Force,&quot; followed  immediately by the AVG acronym. How the shark's mouth motif for the P-40s  came about is also not accurately told. Further, while aviators in Burma  and China showed bias in identifying any Japanese fighter encountered as a  &quot;Zero,&quot; much as Battle of Britain Me-109 pilots always fought  &quot;Spitfires&quot; and not Hurricanes, Zeros (Japanese Navy aircraft)  were not fighting there. The true adversaries were Nakajimas, flown by the  Japanese Army, as Daniel Ford's excellent history of the Flying Tigers  points out. It was nice to have the British contributions to the literature  of the theatre quoted and the books by those aviators are some of the best.  All in all, this is a literary discussion of contemporaneous war books  loosely tied to the Flying Tigers. The title is misleading, but then  calling this &quot;A Study and Comparison of Aviation Books Written During  the China and Burma Air Campaign of 1941-42,&quot; while more accurate  would not sell as well. My advice is to seek out the books listed in the  bibliography and draw your own conclusions.	2000-02-22
US	51859393	R3SDMKZD22WPI6	0061096229	52470361	The Price of Blood	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Great start...	I'm always interested in books about Vietnam vets written by Vietnam vets and that was what got me to read this book. The protagonist, Phil Broker, served in the waning days of the conflict and was, unwittingly, involved in  the theft of 10 tons of gold from the bank of Hue. The plot is all about  hunting the gold, assorted derring do, having illusions about your old  comrades shattered or renewed, and generally driving on. It also has one of  the most interesting female characters I have found in a long time: Nina  Pryce, ex-Gulf War heroine, daughter of a disgraced officer, and likely to  &quot;be the first woman to win a CIB.&quot; (The CIB is the Combat  Infantryman's Badge, probably the most coveted of Army awards since getting  it honestly requires the recipient to have actually been involved in action  with the enemy). The book gets off to a great, but somewhat confusing,  start but like a runner on a steep hill, slows considerably thereafter. The  middle of the book is almost interminable. Good solid prose, but 'way too  much of it. The ending, well, read it yourself, but skim the middle 100 or  so pages... no loss. This was a great 180 pager stretched to fill almost  400. Do they pay authors by the word, or what?	2000-02-14
US	51859393	R1C7N6BHU9RHWI	0071581871	649981438	The Forbidden Diary: A B-24 Navigator Remembers	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Don't spend the money.	There have been a spate of first person accounts of World War II action in the last few years, spawned, I suppose, by the fact that the veterans of that conflict are aging and want to leave a record behind. How disappointing that a young man's war experiences in the extraordinarily  dangerous skies of Europe should be so badly presented. There is no life in  the narrative and a large (too large) portion is devoted to technical  matters and equipment. Perhaps time has diminished the emotions that a 19  year old in flak filled airspace felt and that is too bad. Rather than  presenting the survival of his missions -- no mean achievement in itself --  in the fashion he did, it would have been better to have shared a few  memories with his family. Don't spend your money on this if you expect the  drama, excitement and fear of air combat. If you must read it, get it from  a library. I salute the author for his service but not for his writing.	2000-01-26
US	51859393	R1Z5ZISMXFAYV1	0760305633	132291776	Flying Legends	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Absolutely stunning!	Having long admired the photography of John Dibbs in the Flying Legends calendars, I was very pleased to find this collection of his work. This book is absolutely stunning. The photography is both beautiful and  evocative. In war, the aircraft rarely maintained the pristine look  captured in these photos, but that is the way, I'm sure, that the aviators  remember them. Most of these photos are of refurbished warbirds being flown  by enthusiasts or collectors. I have always liked it that the flyers in the  cockpits of the Dibbs photos are always wearing the right gear... no  postwar hardhats with visors here, this is leather helmets and goggles! It  is a wonderful thing indeed that the beauty of these machines is so  lovingly captured. I browse the book frequently and am always a bit sad to  close the covers. This book is a wonderful tribute to men (and some women  ferry pilots) who flew these aircraft in the defence of freedom. Truly a  wonderful buy. I sincerely hope a second volume is in the works.	2000-01-25
US	51859393	R24II9817XJBIE	0425161390	519412166	Seal Team Seven, Firestorm	Books	1	3	7	N	N	What a disappointment!	In what has to be one of the most far-fetched plots of any recent novel I have read, a platoon of SEALs single-handedly averts the invasion of Taiwan. Even suspending disbelief for the purposes of a quick read, I was  disappointed in the poor writing. One of the most annoying things was LT  Murdock explaining to his men the very weapons they would use: &quot;This  is a Macmillan sniper rifle. It's .50 caliber and fires five rounds from a  magazine. Heavy, yes, but...&quot; They've never seen the weapons before?  It would have been better to simply identify the weapon and then have it  described in text rather than dialogue. Also annoying was the frequent  referral to fragmentation grenades as &quot;fraggers.&quot; Give me a  break. This was like a comic book without pictures. In fact, it is such a  disappointment that I even wonder if Douglass really wrote it as the other  books in the series are rather good. Is it possible that there is a stable  of writers out there cranking this series out under the Douglass pen-name?  Anyway, if you were thinking of reading this series, please don't judge all  the books by this very poor one.	1999-12-29
US	51859393	R29VSVP9FFWEF8	0670884510	667755322	Fly Low, Fly Fast: Inside the Reno Air Races	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful flying book!	In a time of extreme sport,there is hardly any that is as inherently dangerous as that of racing high performance aircraft. The title of this great book tells just what each aviator has to do to win the National Air  Races in Reno: fly low and fly fast. Gandt completely captures the thrill,  and yes, the romance, of pushing aging warbirds around a 9.1 mile course at  speeds approaching 500 miles an hour. He also gives some history and does  personality profiles of the aviators. The book is extremely well written  and leaves you wishing it were longer. I only wish there had been more  photos! Those aircraft are really gorgeous and the cover shot is just  outstanding; what a poster it would make for an aviation lover's wall. This  book is a worthy successor to his BOGEYS AND BANDITS, which was also  outstanding. I only hope he's got another book in the works.	1999-12-21
US	51859393	R6JBEZ9VUR698	0385491646	938248912	The Price of Honor	Books	3	11	15	N	N	A good 200 page novel...	Books like this used to go directly to paperback and were sold in bus station and airport newsstands. In effect, pretensions as literature aside,  this work is a comic book for those who have a movie image of what special  operations forces do and who the operators are. Too much of the &quot;there  I was surrounded, down to my last magazine...&quot; war stories told in  bars and various clubs. All that aside, this novel contains some good  battle sequences and the dialogue, when it is the soldiers talking, is  right on. COL Hackworth is on less firm ground with the love story. He does  not do women characters particularly well; the reporter and her butch  friend both wind up as hardcore and glib in the face of danger as the SF  troopers. You know, trading quips while shooting, etc. Great movie stuff.  The relationship between the main characters is rife with really bad  dialogue and any SF captain who allowed himself to be referred to as  &quot;Pups&quot; by his girlfriend in front of his sergeants would have a  really hard row to hoe when she wasn't around! It's all here, though, the  loyal subordinates, the central casting stock characters (a hairless  villain, no less, and a pervert to boot!), and complex conspiracies.  There's even a more than passing nod to evil industrialists trying to sell  a flawed fighter to the military. The plot twist was telegraphed early on,  so the ending of this was no real surprise. I have read COL Hackworth, both  his books and his columns, for a number of years. I wish he hadn't ventured  into fiction. This was a great 200 page book... too bad it was 490 pages!	1999-10-27
US	51859393	RPMC35HJE2MV5	0151002967	785572493	A Flame of Pure Fire: Jack Dempsey and the Roaring '20s	Books	5	17	20	N	N	&quot;A gentleman and a gentle man.&quot;	For almost anyone the name Jack Dempsey is synonymous with &quot;Champ.&quot; Born in 1895, William Harrison Dempsey came to fame in the turbulent, jingoistic, bigoted aptly named &quot;roaring '20's.&quot;  His is an authentic rags to riches saga of a young man who at 11 years of  age decided he would be the heavyweight boxing champion of the world. He  devoted himself full time to his chosen profession, assuming the name  &quot;Jack&quot; from a past boxing champion that died young. Immensely  strong, he worked hard at anything he did. He knew poverty, saying, &quot;I  was often a hobo, but never a bum.&quot; He literally battled his way to  the top, knowing personal grief along the way, being cheated by  unscrupulous managers, loving many women, marrying disasterously twice,  becoming the most famous man in the world, and losing the championship in  what was probably a rigged fight by the time he was 32. He maintained his  dignity throughout and was as his epitaph stated, &quot;a gentleman and a  gentle man.&quot; Roger Kahn does a wonderful job of capturing Dempsey and  his times. The book is not so much a biography as a history of an era, full  of fascinating information. The actual fights Dempsey had play only a small  part of the book, but are well presented. Kahn actually knew the champ and  his respect for the man and his life show through in this very readable and  worthwhile book. It deserves a wide audience. Jack Dempsey lost his  championship to Gene Tunney in 1927, but he lost it with guts. His personal  credo was always to fight hard, never alibi, and never whine. Not bad rules  for today.	1999-10-18
US	51859393	REOP17T0KGWHP	0803277814	331755199	Riding with Custer: Recollections of a Cavalryman in the Civil War	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A judgment of Custer by a contemporary	This reprint of the classic &quot;Recollections of a Cavalryman&quot; is a valuable addition to the military history of the nation. It also offers a view of Custer by someone who actually served with him in combat -- extensive combat. The view of Custer that emerges is not that penned by a  fawning subordinate; Colonel Kidd simply recounts the battles and  activities of the Michigan Cavalry Brigade in a straightforward manner. His  later controversy notwithstanding, Custer was an exemplary cavalry  commander and arguably the most successful and brilliant cavalry officer on  either side in the conflict. This book opens a window on the past and is an  excellently written account of the brutal battles fought by our ancestors.  The book also offers an unintentional balance to Custer's historical  legacy. It's unintentional because at the time it was written, Custer was  still considered a national hero. This book explains why he was. Read it.	1999-06-24
US	51859393	R2L511QNQ5UXO1	1887178368	947999501	The Hunters	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Called a classic and deservedly so	Growing up in the 1950's and fascinated by the military, particularly fighter pilots, I naturally sought out books on the topic. I first read a paperback edition of \\"The Hunters\\" around 1958 and even as a kid  I knew I had a treasure. Since that first reading, I have re-read it at  least a dozen times. Over my own military career and in my travels I  prowled bookshops hoping to find a hardbound copy of the book while  continuing to purchase any of the paperback versions of it I could find  (class that as \\"never having too much of a good thing!\\"). When  the book was reissued, I eagerly purchased it. To my surprise, it had been  altered! Not the least of these alterations was the renaming of main  character, Cleve Saville (in the original) to Cleve Connell. Why this was  done completely escapes me and seems unnecessary as it does nothing to  enhance the story. All that I can figure is that it was done as some sort  of back-hand compliment to Captain Joe McConnell, the Korean War's top jet  ace. I'm sure the author must have had a reason of his own, but altering  this novel was, to me, tampering with a masterpiece.    This is  unquestionably the finest novel of combat aviators written to date.  \\"The Hunters\\", like the contemporaneous \\"Bridges at  Toko-Ri\\", was such a perfect evocation of time and place that nothing  else has come close. The last lines of \\"The Hunters\\" haunt me  still. The book deserves the widest of readership and should probably be  required reading in the service academies, dealing as it does with the  themes of loyalty, courage, honor, and the brotherhood of warriors.  \\"The Hunters\\" is a fitting and lasting tribute to those who  served so well in the \\"Forgotten War.\\"	1999-06-19
US	51859393	R2AQ0TUTF6ZRJD	1571451633	925719911	Aviation Art	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	an extraordinary aviation art collection!	This is a terrific value for the price. Easily one of the best collections of aviation art, all beautifully reproduced, that I have ever seen. Only a few of the prints are across the fold and that too is a plus. I was  particularly pleased to see that some of the lesser known, but wonderfully  talented artists' work was represented. The only complaint I have is that  in the introduction, there is a print of some jets in formation. They are  identified as F-14s, when they are clearly F-15s and prominently marked  USAF. Granted, there is a general resemblance in design between the two  aircraft, but still... However, that minor gripe aside, this is an  outstanding book and hopefully a second volume is in the works.	1999-06-16
US	51859393	RHNM6FQMCLTKH	0684857804	880656084	ROLLING THUNDER: Jet Combat From WW II to the Gulf War	Books	3	3	3	N	N	a good single volume history of air combat tactics	This single volume history of air combat tactics since the advent of jets in World War II is a very good overview of the topic. The author, an RAF veteran, is conversant with the aircraft and the changes that jet  technology caused in the arena of air combat. It is technical without being  overly so, and there are excellent accounts of combat action, particularly  in the sections on Korea and the Israeli wars. It is an excellent companion  volume to Johnny Johnson's &quot;Full Circle,&quot; (published around 1965)  and Edward H. Sims's &quot;Fighter Tactics and Strategies,&quot; (published  in 1970), that deal with fighter aircraft combat. Mr. Rendall takes us to  the Gulf War. This is the American edition of &quot;Splash One,&quot; and  has a few distracting typos. What I can't understand is why the publisher  chose to use the name of an ill-managed and unsuccessful American bombing  campaign in Vietnam as the title! Simply calling it &quot;Jet Combat&quot;  would have been much better and far more accurate about the contents.	1999-06-15
US	51859393	R389T1XK73BIG4	0312199066	954230535	The Last Man on the Moon: Astronaut Eugene Cernan and America's Race in Space	Books	5	0	0	N	N	may be the best of the astronaut narratives	Having read most of the books on the space program and being particularly fond of the astronaut narratives, I was pleased to see that Gene Cernan has told his story. And what a story it is! The book reads like a novel, never  getting bogged down in technical details, and is a fantastic insider's view  of the space program and the astronaut corps. It is a personal story too of  a Navy aviator's personal and professional growth. I had previously thought  that Mike Collins' &quot;Carrying the Fire&quot; was the best astronaut  book I'd read until this gem came along. The evocative title reminds us of  the glory days and what we lost and yet holds out the promise that the  shuttle and Mars missions offer. All in all one of the most satisfying  books I've read in a long time.	1999-04-13
