US	51860314	R3TE13ZHMRTXG2	0821774018	997764640	What She Can't See (Zebra Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	WHAT SHE CAN'T SEE by Hunter Morgan	What she can't see might be right in front of her but she can't see it because of the unexpected.  Hunter Morgan is at the top of her game with WHAT SHE CAN'T SEE as she joins two opposite people, Adam Thomas, an Hawaii Five O type FBI agent who's smart but very laid back, and Special Agent M.K. Shaughnessy who does everything by the book and abhors swearing.  These two clash and bash as they are on the search of a horrible serial killer. <br /> <br />You will love the banter between Adam and M.K.  Adam is constantly teasing M.K. about what her initials stand for and M.K. is trying to get him to dress better for an FBI agent.  Guess who wins?  Could the two even fall in love?  Oh, my, it gives me chills.  The story moves at a rapid pace with tight suspense and fantastic characters that will keep you reading far into the night as you get to the amazing conclusion.  Hunter Morgan is an author that keeps you guessing.  I find her in league with Patricia Cornwell and Karin Slaughter.  Don't miss this fine author or you will be sorry. <br /> <br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader to Reader/The Belles & Beaux of Romance <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-07-12
US	51860314	RVVPGTY295OXW	0843953942	730716059	At Risk	Books	5	1	2	N	N	AT RISK	<br />AT RISK is so compelling and suspenseful you can't put it down once started.  College professor Liz Clarke teaches American History at Somerville College in Dover, Delaware unaware that she is at risk.  A serial killer is stalking her and she has no idea. The characters are great and so believable.  I felt like I was in the story myself it was so realistic.  The plot keeps going at a fast pace and at times you will find yourself holding your breath and calling out to Liz to be careful.  Yes, you are in for quite an adventure while reading AT RISK.   <br /> <br />As the Game Master keeps tracking Liz, all the while committing murders, it keeps you guessing right to the end.  Actually, it scared the pants off me time and again while reading.  Judith French does a bang up job with her first romantic suspense.  She is a master storyteller whether writing historicals or suspense.   <br /> <br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader To Reader Reviews/The Belles & Beaux of Romance <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-07-12
US	51860314	R247YYTA4BQR3J	0821776843	493457193	She'll Never Tell (Zebra Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	6	13	N	N	She'll Never Tell	<br />Hunter Morgan has written a realistic thriller that puts you on the edge of your seat all the while biting your fingernails to stubs.  Get ready for top-notch excitement that is just the beginning of a must have, must read trilogy-SHE'LL NEVER KNOW in August, and SHE'LL NEVER LIVE in September.   <br /> <br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader to Reader Reviews <br /> <br />  <br />	2004-08-11
US	51860314	RSLHN9FYDKP6	0843953799	803525775	The Barbarian	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Barbarian	Judith French always does a first class job with her historical novels.  THE BARBARIAN, the second book in her Alexander the Great series is well worth the read.  It's filled with history, intrigue and an outstanding love story that is unforgettable.  Her characters ring true, and the story never lets you down for a minute.  I'm on pins and needles waiting for the next one. <br /> <br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader To Reader Reviews	2004-08-11
US	51860314	R2GJHW2XTTMXZM	0778320804	944828088	The Halo Effect (Mira)	Books	5	8	12	N	N	The Halo Effect	Having been a fan of M.J. Rose right from her first book Lip Service, I knew THE HALO EFFECT would be an exceptional read with many twists and turns.  I was engrossed from beginning to end in this suspenseful novel that deals with Cleo Thane, a special patient of sex therapist Dr. Morgan Snow, a woman who has seen it all and then some.  Cleo is a highly paid prostitute who is coming to Dr. Snow for help separating her professional life from her personal life that is falling apart.  Morgan Snow is alarmed when Cleo tells her she has written a book about her life as a prostitute and telling all about her clients. <br />Detective Noah Jordain is assigned to a case where a psychopath is targeting prostitutes in ritualistic killings. When a missing person's report is filed on Cleo he seeks Dr. Snow's help in getting some insight into the killer's mind.  This is one darn exciting time, as Morgan doesn't want to help the police by breaching doctor/patient confidentially, but wants to help find Cleo on her own.  And dare she become involved with Noah Jordain, a man who fires her desires as no other man ever has?<br />THE HALO EFFECT s a nail bitter and only the first book in the Butterfield Institute series-a fast blast of a read.  I can't wait for Delilah, book 2, available April of 2005.  Don't miss this tantalizing author who knows how to thrill and chill.	2004-07-04
US	51860314	R3I8O0T7WBTXFT	0892967943	363374910	The Con Man's Daughter	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Con Man's Daughter	Ed Dee is smokin' hot with The Con Man's Daughter.  Kidnapping, mystery, shocks, thrills, tenderness...this novel has it all in spades.  Retired cop Eddie Dunne has just gotten his life together when his past comes to haunt him.  His daughter is kidnapped by the Russian Mafia.  He has to find her no matter what he has to do to accomplish it.  Get ready for some sizzling twists and turns as secrets from the past tumble his world into one of intense suspense.  Don't miss this one!	2004-04-24
US	51860314	R3D91HE0ORZZ1G	0743463862	959674095	The Accidental Duchess	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The Accidental Duchess	THE ACCIDENTAL DUCHESS is a merry tangle of mistaken identity when Lady Gwen marries the wrong man.  Since birth she had been betrothed to Bertie Milburn. Something is going on that Gwen is not privy to.  Why is Harry pretending to be Bertie while he is around town and then trying to seduce her when in private.  Harry can't tell Gwen the truth of the matter.  What do her parents have to do with anything?  You'd be surprised.  Everything comes to a head when Bertie gets back in town.  <br /> <br />Jessica Benson is a masterful storyteller who certainly has her characters at fever pitch trying their hands at seduction, changing their ways, and taking charge of their lives for better or worse in the game of marriage.  You don't want to miss how this one turns out.  I loved I!  THE ACCIDENTAL DUCHESS is a novel you will want to savor and read more than once.<br /> <br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader to Reader Reviews	2004-01-20
US	51860314	R4ZM2ZIBM8Q6F	0505525712	446158788	The Conqueror	Books	5	10	12	N	N	The Conqueror by Judith French	Setting: Persian Empire, 4th Century B.C.<br />This novel about the alliance between Alexander the Great and Princess Roxanne of Persia is filled with colorful descriptions of opulent court life, the beauty of the area, the perils of war, and Alexander's military genius and his relentless passion for building his empire by conquering the world.  At the heart of the novel is the sensual love affair that weaves a brilliant tapestry of history, love and adventure that keeps the reader enthralled from beginning to end. This is the kind of book you can't put down.<br />Ms. French paints a glorious picture of the times that brings history to life as she delves into the relationship between Alexander and Roxanne, Alexander's famous companions, Roxanne's family and followers and the treachery therein. Plots against Roxanne's life are numerous.  After a while you will think the woman has nine lives.  I loved the ending. There is no doubt in my mind that Judith French is one hell of a storyteller.  THE CONQUEOR is a story that flows effortlessly and is highly entertaining as well as informative.<br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader To Reader Reviews	2003-12-14
US	51860314	R1180YG8F7OCDH	0743439813	347825726	Labyrinth	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Labyrinth	If you've ever wondered what it would be like to descend into a deep, dark cave, then you are in for a treat and a ride into terror as Mark Sullivan gives his readers another block buster of a tale.  <br />Labyrinth centers on hard-core cavers, a bunch of escaped convicts, NASA scientists, U. S. marshalls along with Whitney Burke, expert caver who's trying to save her husband and daughter. To cap it off, Whitney's afraid to go into the cave because of a bad experience she suffered the year before involving a close friend. She's racing against the elements, too, as she's foreseen that the area is going to experience a violent thunderstorm that will cause havoc.  Whitney will do what she has to to save her loved ones no matter what, and believe me, it is edge of your seat excitement. It keeps you glued to the story like a pit bull not wanting to let go.  &lt;Ouch&gt;  I hear it is going to be made into a movie by Paramount Studios.  I hope this is true because it will be a winner!<br />Somehow, I think we are going to be hearing more about an item that turns up missing, that will be the focus of a book in the future, as well as two interesting characters who will now be adults.  This story is too good not to have a sequel.  Mark Sullivan is something else as a storyteller.  He's a knockout!<BR>He's gotten me into reading suspense again.  Don't miss his latest thriller, THE SERPENT'S KISS.  Excellent!<BR>Suzanne Coleburn, The Belles &amp; Beaux of Romance	2003-09-14
US	51860314	RFERPTKVJIZO	082177400X	185846886	The Other Twin	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Other Twin	THE THE OTHER TWIN is guaranteed to give you chills up and down your spine.  Hunter Morgan has done a clever job of portraying the terror one woman has when she finds out the serial killer that murdered her twin sister is now out on the streets again after 20 years. Just when Syd feels she's gotten her life together, despite her divorce, and raising a teenage daughter, she doesn't need the feeling of terror in her life again.  The thing that shakes Sydney up is that since Eshey's release young children related to the previous murders have gone missing. Dare she get in touch with the man who wrote the \\"Twin Murders\\" true crime book to find out the facts her mother would never tell her?  <br />THE OTHER TWIN a well-written book that keeps your attention as all the people and facts fall into place.  Before long Sydney is going to go head to head with a cunning killer, so hold onto your hats and fasten your seat belts for a bumpy ride.<br />This book is very gripping and at times horrific since it deals with murdering young children, but Ms. Hunter does such a fine job with her characters and story line you can't put the book down once you start it.  There are a lot of twists and turns in this story and just when you think you might know what's going to happen, you are off in another direction. If you like mysteries and edge of your seat thrills, you will be up late at night with all the lights on finishing this book.  Better yet, read it during the daylight hours.  Don't miss it!  I'm hooked on Hunter Morgan.<br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader To Reader Reviews	2003-09-12
US	51860314	R2U5J4UY9H0W0R	0743463846	564042429	Loaded	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Loaded	Shari Shattuck's debut is sure to cause waves and raves with her fresh new voice.  Readers are always looking for something different and this is it!!! LOADED is loaded with family secrets, a hotter than hot LAPD detective who is smart and sexy and knows just how to deal with Cally Wilde who is gorgeous, intelligent, ultra wealthy and doesn't take any nonsense off of anyone.  She has a family full of nuts and bolts that are all trying to get a piece of the wealth her deceased father left her.  <br />Now someone is trying to kill her, and in walks the handsome as sin Evan Paley, super duper detective to take the case when Cally is involved in a murder when someone tries to rob her and she ends up shooting the man. Cally and Evan will rock your world or I'm a monkey's uncle.<br />LOADED is definitely loaded with lots of fun and high jinks, edgy suspense, and some special sexual tension designed to torment Cally, as only Evan knows how.  The cast of characters is terrific, the pace is like a runaway train, and I love the sexiness of this novel.  It sparkles and shines in all the right moves.  I can't wait to read the next book is this sassy new series.  Callaway Wilde is one wild woman who knows how to kick-ass!  And I wouldn't mind if Evan Paley tried a few of his techniques on me either!  Whoa baby, the man is so hot!  Don't miss this book, and pass the word onto a friend fast. It is soooooo cool.<br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader To Reader Reviews	2003-09-12
US	51860314	R1GF4V8EYQP2R5	0425190072	248691065	Waterwoman	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Waterwoman	WATERWOMAN<BR>Lenore Hart<BR>Berkley Books<BR>ISBN: 0-425-18471-4<BR>$21.95 Hardcover 241 pp<BR>June 2003<br />Eastern Shore of Virginia in the 1920s<br />WATERWOMAN is the poignant and bittersweet story of two sisters growing up on the Eastern Shore of Virginia between the two world wars.  Annie Revels's father is a waterman pronging for oysters and putting out pots for crabs making a living for his family.  Annie being older than her sister Rebecca loves going out on the boat with her father and sometimes wishes she could be working with him everyday.  Her mother was ill and had to be looked after, and of course, she has to look after little Rebecca too.  I loved the way Ms. Hart presents the different viewpoints of the family members, sometimes revealing the private and shocking thoughts that they have about one another.  <br />When Annie's father suddenly dies she takes over going out on the water and providing for the family as her father did.  Wearing his old clothes, working in the broiling sun doing backbreaking work day after day she realizes what her father had to do to keep them all alive.  Annie has always felt Rebecca was the beautiful one, while she can only aspire to the life of a waterwoman.  All changes in her life the day she meets Nathan Combs, a handsome guide working for the Cobb's brothers who takes out rich folks for fishing and hunting.  Nathan is a veteran of the First World War and had a lot of ghosts of his own to bury.  Annie and Nathan become friends and something more, but the lack of committing how they feel about one another brings about its own chaos.  <br />Ms. Hart weaves a tale of love and relationships that is powerful, compelling and a must read.  This is a rare gem of a book that you will be thinking about long after you read the last page.  I could be wrong, but I have a feeling it isn't over yet!  I can't wait to read the next book from this talented author. <br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader To Reader Reviews	2003-09-12
US	51860314	R1XR1T1EM0MDRJ	0446612324	957586241	Bride of the Beast	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Bride of the Beast	Lady Caterine Keith of Dunlaidir is in need of a champion to defend her strategically located castle.  She's been widowed twice and doesn't want another husband.  Well, maybe a pretend one would do.  Her matchmaking sister, Linnet, the bride of Duncan MacKenzie, sends Sir Marmaduke Strongbow to her aid.  He is a battle-scarred warrior who is valiant and true, but will only accept her offer if she will marry him and be a true wife to him. In addition, Marmaduke has to fight off some viscous suitors and help a young laird find his rightful place in Dunlaidir.  He has his work cut out for him.  You will love his techniques in love and battle.  <Grin> Oh, what a knight!<br />BRIDE OF THE BEAST is a thrilling story that delves into the deep emotions of Caterine and Marmaduke as they struggle to overcome their past and find a love not only to chase the shadows away, but also to last forever.  It is so sensual at times it gives you goose bumps.  The power and magnificence of Marmaduke will leave you breathless.  Ms. Welfonder spins pure magic with her vibrant characters she brings to life in Scotland in 1330.  It makes you wish you were living then and sharing the love and the danger.   No wonder Ms. Welfonder won the award for Best First Historical Romance with DEVIL IN A KILT recently.  With writing like this, Ms. Welfonder is headed for super stardom!<br />Suzanne Coleburn, Winner of the Melinda Helfer Fairy Godmother Award 2002/Reader to Reader Reviews	2003-08-08
US	51860314	R1WYSWKRMAA86E	0312316801	931084222	Minion: A Vampire Huntress Legend	Books	5	7	14	N	N	Minion	Readers run out to your bookstore now or order online MINION, the latest and greatest in the vampire books.  It will scare the living daylights out of you at times so keep all the doors and windows locked while reading this enthralling book about Damali Richards, vampire huntress, as you begin the first of four books.  I don't know how Ms. Banks thought of all the material that is in this intelligent well thought out book, but believe me, it is compelling, fascinating and grabs your interest immediately.  <br /> If you like Buffy, or Anita Blake, Vampire Slayer you are going to love this one that stars the first multi-cultural vampire huntress series with a multi-ethnic, multi-religion cast of characters.  Ms. Banks is a master storyteller that will stun you with her talent when you read MINION.  <br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader To Reader Reviews/The Belles & Beaux of Romance	2003-08-04
US	51860314	R2IH6O425ZG14Q	0743439821	563321012	The Serpent's Kiss : A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Serpents's Kiss	THE SERPENT'S KISS hits you like a freight train from page one!  All you want to do is read this book every minute you can once you encounter the horrific death scene tht homicide detective Semus Moynihan takes in where a naked man has been bitten three times by a deadly snake.  <br />This well crafted tale takes you in to the kinky world of erotic and twisted sex, black market herpetology, cults and a Biblical mystery that is a shocker.  <br />Sargent Moynihan is top notch, tough, stubborn, handsome, and can turn the ladies' heads.  He's a character that is realistic, has his troubles with the death of his father, dealing with his divorce and ten year old son.  However, he works like a well oiled machine when working with his team of detectives solving cases.  The characters are riveting, the prose excellent--all in all a prize package.  Best of all this is the first in a series about Semus Moynihan.  Hold onto your hats readers as it's a wild and bumpy ride from start to finish with an electrifying ending that is unforgetable.<br />I'm a romance reviewer who also loves mysteries. After discovering Mark Sullivan I'm a dyed-in-the-wool fan now.  I'm making a bee-line to track down the rest of his books. I have LABYRINTH on my nighttable to read next. Go to your nearest bookstore or order online.  Yes, he is that good!	2003-08-04
US	51860314	R4FWPAU43SFUQ	1589820673	948656817	The Unknown Soldier	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Unknown Soldier	Setting:  India in the 1970s and World War II<br />THE UNKNOWN SOLDIER is a mesmerizing love story about a young Chinese medical student in India and how he is love struck by a beautiful Japanese student.  His roommates tell him he hasn't a chance with her, but Darrell Lee doesn't give up easily and wins over the lovely Tamara, as well as her doubting brother Kiichi, a martial arts expert.  It isn't long before Tamara and Darrell are confessing their love for each other.  However, it turns out to be a bittersweet affair and soon Darrell is saying goodbye to the woman he loves so desperately.  <br />Darrell is a fine young man who experiences two wonderful, but fleeting loves, one in the future, and one during the time of World War II.  This tale of reincarnation is fascinating and compelling as it weaves the same type of relationships in both of his lives.  One thing is for certain, I'm sure many of you men will be wishing you had the same charismatic effect on women that Darrell has. &lt;Grin&gt; I'm not telling you since I don't want you to miss reading this enjoyable story.  <br />After reading THE UNKNOWN SOLDIER, I was wondering how many times this love story will be repeated, and if Darrell's children will experience a similar fate?  Darrell had a pure spirit that was unconquerable in the face of impossible odds.  I know I couldn't put the book down until I finished it. I enjoyed learning about life in India for the young medical students, the martial arts, and the experiences and decisions that Darrell had to make in World War II.  I loved how he dealt with his passionate love for two women, crossing many cultures, and the devastation he felt when he lost them.  I'm looking forward to seeing what Dr. Lee's second novel will focus on since the first was so engrossing.  <br />\\"A beautiful bittersweet tale of love that grabs you from the beginning.  The reincarnation theme makes it a special and compelling read.  A highly recommended read!\\"<br />Suzanne Coleburn, The Belles &amp; Beaux of Romance/Reader To Reader Reviews	2003-07-22
US	51860314	RLDMY8JLOFQW8	1590520327	414958318	Along Came Jones (Palisades Pure Romance)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Along Came Jones	New Yorker Deanna Manetti is running for her life when she is accused of laundering drug money.  She's been framed, the law doesn't believe her, a crime syndicate is after her, and she has nowhere to go but the road.  Hoping to disappear, Deanna winds up in the wilderness of Montana ending up being run off the road by a wild horse.  When she recovers she's is in the arms of a long tall cowboy named Shepard Jones.  repaired.  He knows something is not right but is willing to be patient until she trusts him enough to tell him what is wrong.  Deanna is a city slicker through and through and some of the hilarious situations she and Shep find themselves in will have you laughing out loud.  Deanna is used to analyzing businesses and coming up with great ideas to make them work.  It doesn't include cooking or ranch chores.  <Grin> Oh my, this city gal sure gets herself into more tight spots on that ranch. Beware; you may endanger your ribs from laughing so much.<br />The town of Buffalo Butte will never be the same after Deanna gets through running a three-ring circus by trying to keep her secret about what really happened from Shep and dealing with all the locals.  And it seems Shep knows more about Deanna's trouble than he is letting on. The saving grace is that God is the ringleader as he leads Shep and Deanna on the road to love and romance as they follow the Word of the Lord as they each seek His counsel when the chips are down putting their lives in jeopardy.  <br />Linda Windsor tells a heartwarming tale of love, suspense and inspiration that tangles your heartstrings up tight as a rope on a wild horse being brought home.  Ms. Windsor has a wonderful touch with her writing that helps readers to realize the doubts and struggles we all go though in life as we question what we should and shouldn't do.  In ALONG CAME JONES she will certainly tickle your funny bone as well as leave you feeling refreshed after being in touch with God's lessons in everyday living.<br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader To Reader Reviews	2003-05-02
US	51860314	R2DP9XFG2KTGY	0446612324	957586241	Bride of the Beast	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Bride of the Beast by Sue-Ellen Welfonder	Lady Caterine Keith of Dunlaidir is in need of a champion to defend her strategically located castle.  Shes been widowed twice and doesnt want another husband.  Well, maybe a pretend one would do.  Her matchmaking sister, Linnet, the bride of Duncan MacKenzie, sends Sir Marmaduke Strongbow to her aid.  He is a battle-scarred warrior who is valiant and true, but will only accept her offer if she will marry him and be a true wife to him. In addition, Marmaduke has to fight off some viscous suitors and help a young laird find his rightful place in Dunlaidir.  He has his work cut out for him.  You will love his techniques in love and battle.  <Grin> Oh, what a knight!<br />BRIDE OF THE BEAST is a thrilling story that delves into the deep emotions of Caterine and Marmaduke as they struggle to overcome their past and find a love not only to chase the shadows away, but also to last forever.  It is so sensual at times it gives you goose bumps.  The power and magnificence of Marmaduke will leave you breathless.  Ms. Welfonder spins pure magic with her vibrant characters she brings to life in Scotland in 1330.  It makes you wish you were living then and sharing the love and the danger.   No wonder Ms. Welfonder won the award for Best First Historical Romance with DEVIL IN A KILT recently.  With writing like this, Ms. Welfonder is headed for super stardom!	2003-04-07
US	51860314	RPAP0FZU05ND8	0671042505	244943533	The Last Chance Cafe: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Last Chance Cafe by Linda Lael Miller	This a a fast and furious read that leaves you spellbound as Hallie O'Rourke and her twin daughters race away from danger after Hallie's stepfather is murdered. Hallie ends up in Primrose Creek after her car breaks down and she and her daughters encounter The Last Chance Cafe during a snowstorm.<br />Chance Qualtrough, one hunk of a rancher,is concerned for Hallie and her kids and let's her stay in his aunt's house.  Something about Chance makes her trust him and this begins one humdinger of story that never lets you go. <br />Great characters, intense suspense, and a delectible romance.  Makes me want to read all the Primrose Creek historicals to find out about the ancestors!  Wow, I'd better get busy.<br />Don't miss this book!<br />Suzanne Coleburn,Winner of the Fairy Godmother of Romance 2002	2003-01-07
US	51860314	R39HW1VWF7PQLH	0505524929	743196609	Virtual Warrior	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Virtual Warrior	I've been waiting it seems like forever for Neil Scott's story in Ms. Lawrence's terrific Virtual reality series that started with VIRTUAL HEAVEN, and then VIRTUAL DESIRE followed the next year. ...  Ann Lawrence has a vivid imagination, and she pulls out all the stops with this compelling novel that is doggone hard to put down once you get into the game. Don't miss this sensational series that is daring and dangerous and quite sensual, and no wonder with those hot, hot virtual warriors!<br />\\"Ms. Lawrence works her fantasy magic to perfection in her latest book in the Tolemac Wars series.  VIRTUAL WARRIOR is to die for in more ways than one!  ...	2002-09-15
US	51860314	RSO9EPGH4ZANY	0373272405	859176181	When Night Falls (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	When Night Falls	Jenna Mills seems to have the edge on taut and smoky heroes and William \\"Liam\\" Armstrong is one such man as the father of a kidnapped daughter.   He's an Internet mogul who is worth millions with a shady past involving the disappearance of his daughter's mother and now 17 years later his daughter is taken.  He's scared, he's mad, and he's going to find her or else...<br />WHEN NIGHT FALLS is tense and edge of your seat sometimes both sexually and emotionally as Liam and Jess race against time to find where his kidnapped daughter is hidden and bring her safely home. Liam is fighting not to let his feeling for Jess sidetrack him from finding Emmie. After you meet Liam, you know when he falls he is gonna fall like a ton of bricks don't you because this man has been holding back his feelings for years and years.  Hey, the damn has got to burst soon. <Grin>  Yummy, this book is a winner!  There are plenty of twists and turns, and a surprise ending that will flabbergast you. I also love the way Ms. Mills uses the precious pets in this book since it adds a lot to the story.  Jenna Mills does a bang up job of giving you a first rate story.  I loooved this book! <br />\\"Jenna Mills is top of my list of authors to watch.  This gal is writing up a storm so be sure and stay tuned for more books in the future. Wow, when you're hot you're hot, and this author is smokin'!\\"<br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader to Reader Reviews.com	2002-08-07
US	51860314	R2IMEDWS4JGZBC	188001632X	524998107	Final Flight : A Toast To Ken	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Final Flight	FINAL FLIGHT is the very moving story of a wife's tribute to her husband Ken, a loving husband and father, who was an Air Force pilot in the 60s.  It is filled with the wonderful humor Marge and Ken shared with their family and others in all their various and numerous moves that military service entailed.  It is a testimony to their love and at the same time fills you in on what it's like to be a military wife with your husband away a good part of the time, frequent moves, starting new schools for the kids, and how they felt about making new friends.  Being a major caretaker of the children, bills, and emergency runs to the hospital, etc. when Ken was away contributed to making Marge a strong independent woman who could take care of herself and her family and you could tell this made Ken very proud to know he had such an excellent backup.  Marge could do it all while holding out for her hero Ken. This \\"Toast to Ken\\" is a marvelous chronicle of their married life together and a treasured legacy to pass down to the family and future generations.    <br />I loved living through some of the memories of the times described by Ms. Stickevers since I was a young wife and mother during this time too.  Marge brought it all back, and I especially admire her candor and her deep caring for her family, friends and country.  I felt like I had been given a special gift of love while reading this toast to Ken.  His family is blessed by having Marge so beautifully express her love so eloquently, making his final flight live on in their memories forever.  Thank you Marge for sharing this book with other readers.  A truly touching book.<br />Suzanne Coleburn, ...	2002-07-30
US	51860314	R1A1JJ5U8G3P2K	1902881427	283361866	A Trick of Light	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A TRICK OF LIGHT	\\"Karen Blomain takes the controversial subject of bigamy and makes it into something poignant, thought provoking and compassionate with a very compelling plot and unforgettable characters.  A TRICK OF LIGHT can't help but touch your heart in all the nooks and crannies as it explores the creativity of an extraordinarily talented author whose characters seem so real that they shatter you emotionally as you become involved in their lives.  When you finish the book, you can't help but wonder what you would do if faced with the same set of circumstances.  Yes, it certainly is food for some lengthy discussions isn't it when you think about bigamy, middle-aged sexuality, agoraphobia, and widowhood!\\"  <br />A TRICK OF LIGHT is one heartbreaking eye-opener as to how something like this could ever happen.  Ms. Blomain handles it with the finesse of a master storyteller.  I know this reader cried her eyes out many a time while reading this emotional roller coaster of a novel.  Karen Blomain delves into the deepest of human emotions as she takes a woman's love for her husband, her memories of their life together, his death and what it means to his two wives, and mixes it with the stark reality of facing the truth behind years of deception and lies that were the result of a man's love and compassion for the two women he loved.  The twister is that Hattie finds herself caught in the same web that caught up her dear Ben, a man who experienced the dilemma of falling in love with two women and adjusted his life to accommodate the two families.<br />This is the first book in a trilogy spanning 40 years in the lives of three women in a small town.  Look for A TRICK OF LIGHT as a CBS movie by Barbara Streisand's Barwood Films in the future!<br />	2002-07-25
US	51860314	R2SD5J60KQN1IF	1583141936	427429828	Once In A Lifetime (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Once In a Lifetime	ONCE IN A LIFETIME has an abundance of love that wraps around you and makes you feel like you've been given a million dollars worth of hugs and kisses and leaving you feeling cherished above all. Reading this book made me think of all the things I value in having a loving husband and family and friends, the closeness I share with them everyday, and the special days like birthdays and holidays-all the things that make your life worth living.  Ms. Forster puts her stamp of love, her joy of cooking, and her special touches of love that make for lifetime relationships, and make her the great writer she is today into ONCE IN A LIFETIME. Awesome!<br />\\"ONCE IN A LIFETIME has it all, sexual chemistry to set off a red-hot explosion, hidden secrets, a precious child, fabulous secondary characters, and a hero and heroine to die for!  Wow, don't miss this book.  Gwynne Forster combines all her talents to bring you an extraordinary tale of love and the meaning of family.  Loved it!\\"    <br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader To Reader Reviews	2002-07-09
US	51860314	R8UQA62OAR5ZE	034545104X	826289387	Flesh Tones	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Flesh Tones	FLESH TONES is an emotional blockbuster beginning with the New York trial room where Genny Haviland is accused of murdering her lover, painter Slade Gabriel. Was it a mercy killing or second degree murder?  You are hooked at once when you are lead into the lust crazed obsessive love affair that spans over two decades between Genny and Gabriel when they first met when she was 17 and he 37 in her father's gallery.  <br />The action switches back and forth between the trial and the memories in Genny's mind of what really happened with Slade Gabriel, her parents, her friends, and herself as she leads you into the painting of her own life with this dynamic man who had captured her love, her lust, her being as Ms. Rose delves into the human psyche and peels back the layers of what makes Genny and Gabriel tick.  The characters are very complex with a mixture of dark and light.  I was so emotionally tied up that when I finished Flesh Tones I had one doggoned big cry, especially when I discovered the gift that Gabriel left Genny.    <br />M.J. Rose also gives you a virtual tour of the art world and artists.  I've always loved New York and the museums, but I now have a much better opinion of what art is all about after reading this compelling book.  This summer I know everyone is going to be talking about M.J. Rose's FLESH TONES, a book that appeals to your intellect, and your emotions.  Sensational!<BR>There is a lot of thought provoking issues that certainly will jolt you.<br />\\"FLESH TONES is one hell of a compelling read with its eye opening view into the art world as M.J. Rose mesmerizes you with a tale of lust, greed, passion and obsession that is staggering to your emotions as a kaleidoscope of visions flash by in glorious colors.  Believe me, you won't be unaffected by this book.  I'm still reeling.  Simply stunning!  Ms. Rose gets better with every book.  Put her on your A list now.\\"<br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader To Reader Reviews	2002-07-04
US	51860314	R72I1HFWEB2AY	0312284497	17904010	The Chase: A Novel	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The Chase	OMIGOD!  THE CHASE is the best thing Brenda Joyce has ever written.  Terrific suspense, fantastic plot, and the greatest ever characters that step right off the pages and knock you for a loop.  I couldn't put it down until I finished it.  Ms. Joyce has some of the best hooks beginning and ending each chapter that almost give you whip lash with each surprising encounter with clues, danger and cliffhangers as Claire Hayden and Ian Marshall are chasing after the man who murdered her husband. He is a man whose heinous crimes go back to World War II. Ian works for a special source that investigates war crimes. He is very good at what he does, and Claire is determined to be his partner and hangs onto him like Krazy Glue. <Grin> Claire is a fantastic character that I think readers will love and admire for her gutsy spirit and determination.  She's a glam-queen, a bedside mama, and one hell of a woman!<br />There are two story lines, one in present time in the USA, and the other during World War II set in England. This adds a lot to the story and certainly keeps the reader's interest. Ian and Claire are wonderful together too and the repartee between them will have you laughing it is so witty and sharp-the perfect foil for the coiled tension of whirlwind car chases and narrow escapes.  The riveting characters, and the twists and turns are unbelievably effective and carry the story along at breakneck speed.  The whole story is well put together and one that will appeal to both men and women.<br />\\"Brenda Joyce is awesome, magnificent, and she has a flair for giving her readers the knock out stories that keep you up all night reading.  The Chase especially appeals to all the senses, it's very emotionally charged with edge of your seat action, and sensuous love scenes that are unforgettable.  All in all, The Chase has all the right stuff in spades!  Excellent writing by a skilled and talented storyteller who knows her characters inside and out!  Brava!\\"<br />...	2002-06-26
US	51860314	RHNUQ8SFUH5K5	0515133094	130312466	Mulligan Stew (Irish Eyes Romance)	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Mulligan Stew by Deb Stover	\\"Deb Stover just took flight on wings of magic and landed in Ireland in a pot of Mulligan Stew hot enough to singe your eyebrows off with her extraordinary characters that jump off the pages into your heart.  This book has everything necessary to keep you flipping the pages because from the moment you meet Bridget and Riley you know there are other forces at work to bring them together to break the curse on the Black Castle that has stood vacant for l00 years.  I highly recommend this book.  Keep in mind it's quite sensual too.\\"<br />Suzanne Coleburn, Reader To Reader Reviews	2002-06-01
US	51860314	R2DF2MMU584SL2	0515133396	373071700	My Lord Jack (Highland Fling Romance)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	My Lord Jack by Hope Tarr	Setting: Small town of Selkirk on the Scottish Border in 1793<br />Ms. Tarr has your undivided attention from the moment you turn the first page until the last with MY LORD JACK. I could not stop reading if my life depended on it. It's a tale full of deep emotion that blows through your like a gale force as you encounter Jack Campbell, a man who has held himself in check for years after dealing with his mother's murder. <br />Claudia Valemont has escaped from France and execution and fled to Scotland to find her father the Earl of Aberdaire who resides near Edinburgh. While traveling her coach breaks down in Selkirk and she finds herself in trouble in the tavern after getting unwanted attention from Jack's jealous and vicious half brother Callum. Jack helps her get a room but Claudia only has one thought in her head and that is to get to her father as soon as possible and she is caught trying to steal a horse which lands her in the goal sentenced to hang. However, it is Jack who comes to her rescue and she becomes his indentured servant for six months time. What happens to these two people from different worlds is simply amazing and heart wrenching. Jack's and Claudia's worlds are turned upside down as they discover new truths about one another, and as time goes by it goes from friendship, to trust and finally love. Of course, Callum won't let anything rest between he and Jack and he is out of get Jack anyway he can. Once Callum knows Jack wants Claudia he becomes even more devious and evil. If Claudia reaches her father will things be better or worse?  Don't miss finding out what happens as it is a shocker!<br />MY LORD JACK is a must read that I feel will touch your heart in so many ways. It is a tale fraught with danger, suspense, intrigue, and vile jealously, forgiveness, and a grand passion the likes of heavenly bliss. It is well written and flows along like the fast moving burn of passion. There are so many Technicolor pictures that flash through your mind asJack describes the way he feels about Claudia and it is truly beautiful. I loved this book, and I'm dying to know if there will be more adventures for this lively couple. <br />Hope Tarr's storytelling talent sparkles and shines like a diamond on a bed of black velvet with the telling of MY LORD JACK, an exceptional tale of an extraordinary man and the woman he falls in love with. Don't miss it!	2002-05-16
US	51860314	R1DZGJ99DE6HR4	0595184774	916579807	Small Potatoes	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Small Potatoes by Michael Witt	...<br />Mr. Witt does a good job of placing the reader in the front row roller-coaster seat as SMALL POTATOES gives you one thrill after the other. The plot is fast-paced, and a great cast of colorful characters as you view the story from the criminals' point of view and Ramey's, all which keeps the reader, glued to the book.  Witt also gives you a wonderful flavor of Ocean City, eating hard crabs, shopping and fun on the beach.  People that know it will love revisiting some of the treasured spots. Once you start the book you can't put it down. SMALL POTATOES would make an exciting movie!	2002-05-03
US	51860314	R1ZQOE5CKSMFDQ	0345437055	301161243	The Bartered Bride (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The Bartered Bride	THE BARTERED BRIDE is worth every penny.  I couldn't put it down. If you haven't read WILD CHILD and CHINA BRIDE be sure to check them out.  Each book stands alone, and all are exquisitely written exciting adventures I know you won't want to miss. Mary Jo's books are some of the best ever written.  If you've never read this author please start now...you are going to love her!<br />THE BARTERED BRIDE, the final book in the bride trilogy, is going to thrill readers, as it is beautifully written, highly dramatic, and a real page-turner. Set against the exotic backdrop of the East Indies it fills the senses with sights and sounds of the Orient in the first part of the book and then moves on to England's aristocracy in l835.  Gavin Elliott, an American Yankee, who has built Elliott House, is quite a businessman and adventurer who wishes to rescue a European woman sold at a slave auction on the island of Maduri when he is visiting a sultan.  <br />Alexandra Warren had been on her way home to England from Australia with her young daughter after the death of her husband when pirates struck the Dutch ship she had been on kidnapping her daughter and separating them, and then making a slave of her.  It was only when she encountered Gavin in the slave market and called out to him that she had any chance of survival and of finding her beloved daughter.  <br />Since being a slave, things have happened to Alexandra that would test the heart and soul of any woman.  She and Gavin have shared much together in this trying time and have become friends. Hating to seeing this beautiful, courageous woman hurting so after a shocking event Gavin marries his bartered bride and they arrive in London as intimate strangers bound with many painful hurts and deep secrets.  <br />I can attest first hand that this book holds you in its grip and never lets go.	2002-04-30
US	51860314	R2156U0VGHKA4P	0345452704	457341957	Dying to Please	Books	5	12	13	N	N	DYING TO PLEASE by Linda Howard	Right off the bat I say buy this book since you can't put it down once you start it.  It's so Linda Howard with her fabulous Alpha heroes to die for too.<br />Sarah Stevens is a butler for a wealthy retired judge in the small town of Mountain Brook, Alabama.  She is also trained as a bodyguard and hired by the judge's family to watch over him as he's had some death threats in the past.  Sarah has worked for Judge Roberts for three years and is almost a member of the family.  One night she interrupts a robbery and is in the news and on TV.  Unbeknownst to Sarah she has attracted the attention of a stalker who thinks she is perfect for him and a chain of events is set into motion that will have dire consequences for Sarah.  <br />At short time later Sarah walks in to the judge's house one evening and discovers he has been brutally murdered.  Linda Howard knows how to build ... tension so well you can feel the steam heat.  Whew!...	2002-04-17
US	51860314	R332PXEDRH3W1X	1931696993	126472123	Finders Keepers	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Finders Keepers by Linnea Sinclair	If you are a Sci-fi fan you are going to love FINDERS KEEPERS since it is a real keeper to read and reread.  I loved this book soooooooo much!!!  The characters are three-dimensional and have great warmth and deep emotions that really touch you.  There is tons of action to keep you interested, but to me it is the relationships that really make this book sing.  The romance between Rhis and Trilby has lots of sparks and grows even more intense as they get to know one another.  Excellent secondary cast, especially the droid Dezi who belonged to Trilby.<br />Readers, one of the best things I've discovered as a reviewer is all the wonderful and intriguing authors I've never even heard of until I'm either sent or requested to review their books.  My mission is bringing all these great reads you might be missing to your attention.  Linnea Sinclair is just fabulous and one such author who tickles my Sci-Fi fancy.  She also writes under the name of Megan Sybil Baker so don't miss her GABRIEL'S GHOST from LTD, Books.  I'm a dedicated fan for life now.  Wow, do I ever like this author's work.<br />\\"Linnea Sinclair is one author to put on your \\"must\\" read list.  FINDERS KEEPERS is knock your socks off storytelling with riveting characters that send you into orbit and keeps you there.  Electrifying action that is nonstop, superb secondary characters, the threat of great danger from hostile factions, betrayal and everlasting passion.  This one is a keeper!\\"	2002-04-14
US	51860314	R1DZV23364S6LV	0446610348	847033353	Knight in My Bed	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Knight In My Bed by Sue-Ellen Welfonder	Setting: Scotland 1330 The Isle of Doon<br />KNIGHT IN MY BED is all about the MacLean and the MacInnes clans and the windswept Isle of Doon. Lady Isolde, the chieftain of the clan MacInnes has got to think of a way to protect her people after the death of her sister Lileas on the fated Lady Rock.  They blamed the MacLeans's and wanted revenge, but at the same time, Isolde fears for the safety of her clan against these mighty warriors. Meanwhile, Donall the Bold, chieftain of the MacLeans has been captured with his friend and held in prison in the Castle Dunmuir.   <br />Isolde thinks of offering Donall a special pact and sets about seducing the bonnie man.  This is great fun as she is overwhelmed with his manly good looks and well-honed body, but most of his knightly kisses just about bring her to her knees. Imagine Donall chained to your bedside?  Hmm, sounds very interesting doesn't it?  It's a yummy captor/captive tale.  Oh my, yes and yes again. All the while, Donall is thinking of anyway he can to get out of the castle and get back to his brother but at the same time he is becoming under the beauteous Isolde's spell.  There is so much going on you can't possibly put the book down.<br />Talk about sensuality, this book is loaded with it as the contest begins with the renowned warrior and the virgin chieftain as they get to know and crave one another.  It sure does stir your blood as well as some other areas. You don't know who is going to succumb first, Donall, Isolde or you, as it is all dangerously seductive.  <Grin> The best part is that it is done over a period of time so Donall and Isolde get to know one another and find that trust can be an asset.  There is excellent humor as Isolde gets help from Evelina, Doon's own joy woman in the art of seducing Donall with some hilarious results, and Devorgilla of the wee folk who mixes up all kinds of concoctions for Isolde to drink to ward off her attraction to Donall, or so she thinks.  <br />One thing is for certain; you are kept in suspense and the heady arms of seduction as to how it will all turn out as time is running out for Isolde to accomplish her plan to save her clan.  This is a must read and darn fine entertainment too.	2002-04-12
US	51860314	R1ZOPDC4QVXH0	1576738914	302008741	Deirdre (The Fires of Gleannmara series #3)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Deirdre by Linda Windsor	Setting:  Seventh Century Ireland and the Northumbrian kingdom of Galstead<br />Princess Deirdre of Gleannmara is ship bound with a king's ransom on board to rescue her brother Prince Cairell from bondage when a Saxon pirate, Alric of Galstead, captures her.  Deirdre dons a priest's robe to conceal her royal identity and hides the legendary sword of her ancestor, King Kieran, under it for safety.  The rest of the treasure, she and her companions stow in a wine cask, but things go awry and Deirdre is found out to be a princess.  <br />When Alric discovers her royal cloak with the Glenmora brooch among the ransom meant for Cairell with the same symbols on the cloak that his late mother had made for Alric when she prophesized his earthly kingdom would be won by love, he is shaken.  Alric's mother was a Scottish slave whom his father Lambert loved dearly, but his political marriage to the wicked queen Ethlinda made their son Ricbert, a conniving serpent if there ever was one, the rightful heir to Galstead.  <br />Raised in a court of bitterness and deceit, it's no wonder that Alric is so distrustful of everyone but his faithful dog Tor, and his aged nursemaid Abina, and the men who seek their fortune with him at sea.  Consumed with a burning ambition, the illegitimate prince feels Deirdre might be the key to the birthright his mother spoke of in the prophecy.  With the calculated decision to make her his bride to be, his life is turned in a new direction.   <br />Deirdre is a feisty woman who is used to being in control of those around her and has a very sharp tongue that she isn't afraid of using.  She knows she will do whatever she has to do to get her brother safely back and she uses Alric's sudden interest in marriage to achieve this end, enlisting his help in the terms of the wedding contract.  Of course Alric has a few terms of his own, but the Lord has a master plan in store for this special pair's destiny and his love is the firm foundation.<br />This is a beautiful and exciting story of how wonderfully the Lord uses the imperfect to bring about his perfect and everlasting love.  DEIRDRE is filled with colorful characters, as well as the emotionally stirring story of Deirdre, a devout woman whose faith in word and deed under the direst of circumstances conquers her conqueror, winning his heart and his trust in her God.  Heavenly days, DEIRDRE is not to be missed!	2002-03-31
US	51860314	R2M8AN65XL7UEQ	0373272162	724984543	Smoke And Mirrors (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Smoke and Mirrors	Readers buy this book before everyone else beats you to it!!!  Yes, its that good.  You all are going to be drooling over millionaire Derek Mansfield, the hotter than hot hero, who interacts with the awesome undercover cop Cassidy Blake all through this knockout book.  Wow, Zowie, and oh baby!<br />Cassidy and her partner Gray have been working undercover in the luxurious Chicago hotel owned by Derek Mansfield and his stepbrother Brent for a while waiting for him to return.  Derek is suspected of being a front man for drugs and has been in Edinburgh for six months and everything has been quiet.  The minute he comes back all hell breaks loose and so do your emotions when you meet this devastating man and the woman who stirs his very soul.  Talk about chemistry, this book has it in dynamite sticks.  Wait until you read the electrifying first meeting.  I thought I was going to melt down.  <Grin> Cass never dreamed she'd be falling for the very man she has as a prime suspect.  A man bent on revenge, a woman out for justice and a sizzling, simmering heat that never cools down between the two. Wow, and wow again is all I can say for this startling new author's work.  Reserve time for this book since you won't want to be disturbed once you start it.  Surprises you right up until the end.	2002-03-29
US	51860314	R30YQ1Y7I842XT	0743419154	759611923	The Fire Inside	Books	4	1	2	N	N	THE FIRE INSIDE	Setting:  Regency England<br />This is one of those love stories that has thrilling characters that you'd love to meet just to see them in action.  Kat Martin has always had the ability to breath life into her characters and makes them so vivid that it only enhances your desire to read their stories.  Her stories are usually very sensual, and interestingly filled with some of the most dangerous and devastatingly delicious heroes imaginable.  Of course, Ms. Martin finds some intelligent and feisty heroines to give the men something to worry about.  &lt;Grin&gt;<br />THE FIRE INSIDE brings together a rake of the first order in the drop dead gorgeous Clayton Harcourt, a man with a past, and the highly volatile redhead Kassandra (Kitt) Wentworth who doesn't want to marry at all, and is constantly getting herself into trouble with her curiosity and penchant for trying something different. Her father is at his wit's end and is ready to send her to a convent for God's sake.  Will Clay let this happen to her?  It's all very exciting, and sooooo tempting too.<br />Kitt and Clayton have known each other for years and are like oil and water together but in spite of it they are attracted too.  Kitt has her own reasons for not wanting to marry, and Clayton has his reasons why he might like to marry her.  The two become entangled after a misadventure and things take off like magic as they try to work together, but the biggest problem is learning to trust one another.  Will they be able to divulge their secrets and build a firm foundation to their new relationship?  They have a wonderful collection of friends that adds fire and color to the story, especially the tall, dark, and handsome and enigmatic Adam Blackstone, whom I hope we will be hearing from in the future.  Add to this some gypsies, a devious man who harbors a vengeance and you have a humdinger of a romance.<br />If you are intrigued by the Earl of Greville and his lady Ariel, Kitt's best friend, then look for Kat Martin's HEARTLESS, May 2001.  You won't be disappointed!<br />Kat Martin always gives you something to shout about with her sizzling plots and extraordinary characters and she sure has a smoldering love fire going in THE FIRE INSIDE.  Don't miss it!	2002-02-03
US	51860314	RLZZTEUQND1HS	038080901X	564087049	The Bride Sale	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Bride Sale	Setting:  Cornwall - 1818<BR>THE BRIDE SALE is a marvelous tale that is sometimes mysterious and fraught with angst about a woman whose husband sells her for 200 pounds and then she is rescued by a dark enigmatic man who is known as Lord Heartless by most who know him.  Is it possible that she has been taken in by a murderer?<br />Verity Osborne soon finds herself helping the people of Lord Harkness with herbal remedies for colds and such and soon wins their confidence.  The more she hears about James the more she wonders about him and if the rumors about him are true.  She doesn't want to believe the evil tales about him and is determined to get to the bottom of the mystery.  She wants to leave but some passionate kisses leave her wanting more so she decides to stay and see what she can find out about this dark lord who is hiding a painful secret.  Can someone who takes such good care of his people be all bad?  Don't miss finding out what really happened.  No, I'm not telling you any more ... I'm leaving that up to you.  &lt;Grin&gt;<br />James Harkness has survived tragedy but it's left him a lonely man who is afraid to sleep less he is plagued with horrific dreams.  When he purchases Verity Osborne he may have questioned his sanity as well but inadvertently he's given himself a second chance at love but will he realize it before it is too late?   <br />I was up half the night burning the midnight oil being royally entertained by fantastic storyteller Candice Hern.  She knows how to hook you but good!	2002-01-19
US	51860314	R2ZAY9U5H3Z6ZI	0595156770	387249908	A Deadly Exchange	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A DEADLY EXCHANGE	Matt and Alex (Alexandra) Spencer were taking the trip they had dreamed of in their new sailboat \\"Amani\\" in the Bahamas. Unbeknownst to them they are carrying drugs onboard when the men who did it put them on the wrong boat.  Now the drug lord is mad as hell at the two imbeciles who did it and sends them out to retrieve it pronto or they're dead meat.  He doesn't care if they kill the couple or not-just get the drugs back however they can. Matt, a former POW is sharp and he knows something is wrong when the two men meet up with them too many times for it to be a coincidence.  Matt alerts Alex that something is not right and when they discover the cocaine in a closet they are really scared.  They were scared, I was scared, and my heart was in my mouth as I was reading this story trying to think what they would do to get out of this situation that is extremely dangerous.  <br />Matt is a fabulous hero and his wife Alex is so darn resourceful that it is a joy to see how well this pair worked together as they were up against some fanatical people who didn't value human life worth a darn.  How are they going to safeguard their lives?  This is where I leave you hanging over a cliff so to speak.  &lt;Grin&gt; If you love suspense, you're gonna love this one!  A DEADLY EXCHANGE is very well written, and I know you are going to be hearing from Ms. Stafford in the future as she is just getting started on her dynamite career. <br />\\"Sheryl Jane Stafford is a master of suspense and intrigue and creating the perfect characters to weave her tale.   Ms. Stafford is an author you don't want to miss.  She sure can electrify the air with suspense with her compelling plot and riveting characters.  Her next story can't come fast enough for me!\\"	2001-09-21
US	51860314	R18PDO6KIQB227	0966031903	272538976	Growing Your Family Medical Tree	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Growing Your Family Medical Tree	Buy Fran Carlson's medical history kit called GROWING YOUR FAMILY MEDICAL TREE. The kit includes a fifty-page booklet, the Family Deck of Life Cards and color-coded stickers to identify health risks. It's never too late to start taking charge of your family's medical history. Discover your true medical roots and share this information with others.<br />In fact, Marilyn H. Gaston, M.D., the author of PRIME TIME, and Director of the Bureaus of Primary Health Care and Assistant Surgeon General has this to say about Ms. Carlson's book GROWING YOUR FAMILY MEDICAL HISTORY: &quot;To help you begin this significant project, fill in the table, &quot;My Family History.&quot; You can also buy Fran Carlson's medical history kit called Growing Your Family Medical Tree. The kit includes a fifty-page booklet, the Family Deck of Life Cards, and color-coded stickers to Identify your health risks.&quot; <br />I'm starting my family's history now!<br />Suzanne Coleburn	2001-07-02
US	51860314	R7RPI7X3ALF6K	0373271484	945597834	In Close Quarters	Books	5	0	0	N	N	IN CLOSE QUARTERS	Magnificent!  I couldn't put this book down.  I have been waiting it seems forever to read the second book continuing with some of the dynamite characters in Ms. Irvin's first book with Reese and Jade. Now it's time for Jade's friend, Doctor Karin Scott, and Reese's partner in the DEA, TJ Vasquez, to have their story told.  Wow!  It's hot and delicious and keeps you in suspense right up until the very last page.<br />&gt;	2001-06-03
US	51860314	R2RX0XMQRW9538	1551667959	822589843	7b	Books	4	2	4	N	N	7B	Once again Stella Cameron combines a lively blend of humor and sensuality that makes 7B such a rewarding read.  I love the touch of paranormal with the ghost of Sir Septimus Spivey, who lives in the newel post at No. 7 Mayfair Square where he is hard at work trying to get the lovely Sybil Smiles and Hunter Lloyd wedded and bedded before Sybil goes through with her plan to have a baby by Hunter, and no marriage.  It seems Sybil is a liberated woman and she and her group of female friends has meetings to discuss the male and female anatomy and how it works.  Some of the conversations that are held by this group would have you laughing out loud, especially when Sybil can picture the eligible men's private parts when they are in her presence.  <br />She's in love with Hunter and has chosen him to be the father of her baby.  Needless to say, Hunter is shocked when she approaches him with her wild scheme.  He refuses her as he is in the middle of a special case in his position of barrister, and his life is in danger, and so is Sybil's when the killers think to get to Hunter though Sybil.  Sybil is a delight with her modern thinking and endearing ways.  The gal has a lot of spunk!<br />After Hunter's refusal, Sybil goes to Plan B, and this causes mass confusion and a lot of trouble between friends.  As you can imagine, Hunter has his hands full.  Sir Spivey is beside himself with worry over all the events that are spiraling out of control, as he knows those things are not running that smoothly, and he's being hounded by Sir Thomas More to get him in his angel school.  What next?  Plenty.  No. 7 Mayfair Street has three of the most eligible and devastating men imaginable in residence all vying for Sybil's attention.  If Sybil knew of their reputations with women she faint dead away!<br />7B is filled with a crazy cast of colorful characters that I fell in love with.  I was sorry I was just coming in on book three in this delightful series.  Now I'll have to dig through my \\"To Be Read\\" pile and find the first two books, MORE AND MORE, and ALL SMILES, since I don't want to miss out on all the fun.  Ms. Cameron is a scribbler deluxe as she spins her special sparkling tales of love and romance that sizzle and set off sparks everywhere.	2001-04-26
US	51860314	R14V8P7EH8G6OP	0595130356	853555958	No Kidding	Books	4	1	3	N	N	No Kidding by Wendy Tokunaga	I had more laughs reading this book as Wendy Takunaga's witty sense of humor singles in on the theme of whether to have babies or not to. Audrey Mills is a thirty-five year-old Silicon Valley techie who is fed up with people telling her what to do, especially about her biological clock ticking away, and asking when she is going to have a baby.  She has a live-in boyfriend who wants to marry her and have a baby,and then a Tyrone Power look alike comes to work in her department and things start to change fast! Aldo is handsome, funny, smart and very sexy and suddenly Audrey is not so sure she wants to get married.<br />This story is told in a very innovative way with pages from Audrey's grandmother's diary, e-mails, and old movies and their stars.  It delves into people's relationships and their feelings about them and their families with their entire idiosyncrasy.    &lt;Grin&gt; I loved all the references to old movies and their stars, and found this a very interesting and compelling read.  I loved the ending soooooooooo much too!  I always adored Tyrone Power so this was a special book for me.  It also reminds me of all the baby showers I've attended over the years and the cutie baby talk that had me laughing my head off frequently.  A very enjoyable read!	2001-02-28
US	51860314	R6S1OZTKXV0AP	0515129488	150628063	Notorious	Books	5	8	8	N	N	NOTORIOUS by Katherine Sutcliffe	Setting:  England - 1857 - the High Seas and India<br />Lord Jason Baston is really a mercenary for the Queen of England's Special Forces called Cobra.  They are the ones who go in undercover and do the most dangerous jobs of killing and rescue to protect the Crown, and as the leader, Jason is the best there is.  However, he has just spent a year in confinement and is only released because he agrees to take an assignment to assassinate Lord Fontaine, an Englishman, living in India, who is believed turned traitor.  Jason locates Destiny Fontaine Chesterfield, his daughter, now a widow in England to find out what she knows about her father. Jason is very strong hero, he knows what to do in tight situations, and this is his dark side, but he has a caring heart as he has a special place for women and children, he's handsome as sin and has women melting at his feet. What will he do if he has to decide between the Crown and Destiny if her father, who is also a personal friend, is guilty of treason? <br />When Jason and Destiny meet you can just about hear the lightening bolts hit the ground.  Ms. Sutcliffe is a master at creating electrifying characters and this reader was spellbound by all that went on between the two.  Believe me it is very explosive and sometimes rough and raw as the dickens.  Destiny is an innocent in many ways, but a strong willed woman that is beautiful and stubborn, a courage to match Jason's, and more importantly, she's about to rock Jason's world with passion.  His rules are about to go to hell in a hand basket.  <br />When Destiny finds out her father is in trouble she is determined to get to him even if it means she has to travel on a ship loaded with unsavory cutthroats, and an ugly captain who somehow reminds her of Jason. I loved the crew of mercenaries as their personalities are revealed through the book.  To make matters worse, her aunt, Diana aka Cassandra, to my way of thinking, opens Pandora's Box and makes things chaotic for everyone as she stows away on the ship. She can make you so darn mad you are ready to throw her overboard. You never know what is going to happen next in this rousing adventure that is piled high with interesting characters and secrets, life at sea, and some hot sexy love scenes to blow you out of the water at the same time. And we're not even to India yet! &lt;Grin&gt; We still have the bloody Sepoy rebellion to go through in Cawnpore, British East India.  I was on the edge of my seat for this one.  I'm glad to see some authors are taking us to exotic places.  I'm ready to travel and I think a lot of other readers are too!  Brava Ms. Sutcliffe.	2000-11-21
US	51860314	R2TUI8IW34MDBB	1929613539	427572155	Walk in Moonlight	Books	5	24	24	N	N	WALK IN MOONLIGHT by Rosemary Laurey	Being a vampire fan since I was just a kid, I had a ball reading this treat from Rosemary Laurey.  It's all about vampires, a coven of witches and a mystery in a small English town.<br />Things get hopping when Dixie LePage finds out she has inherited a house in the quaint English village of Bringham and meets up with smooth operator Sebastian Caughleigh, a lawyer you would love to kill after you get to know him, along with his nephew James, the supreme lay-about.  Dixie contacts Sebastian about seeing to her property and money left to her by her two deceased great-aunts who had been blackmailing everybody and their grandmother in town for years.<br />While in the local pub, The Barley Mow, with Sebastian, Dixie meets an unusual man who is sexy as hell and wears a black leather eye patch. Christopher Marlowe intrigues her right away when he tells her he'd like to buy some books on the occult from her library.  She invites him over the next day to take a look at them, and they are drawn to one another in friendship as well as sensually. Wow! There is a lot about Christopher that puzzles Dixie, and everything is not what it seems.  Someone is searching Dixie's house at night, Sebastian wants her to sell her house and move back to America, and then there is the fact that someone is trying to kill her, and she wants to know why?  Then Christopher is missing.  What the heck is going on?  Then Dixie discovers the truth: Christopher is a vampire!  This quiet little village is exploding with sex, intrigue and murder and Dixie is right in the center of all this mayhem.  Peyton Place in England!<br />The more I got into this book and the characters the more I liked it.  Darn, I was in the middle of a scary situation of being up close and personal in the lives of vampires and one courageous American woman who was determined to get to the bottom of what was going on in this English village come hell or high water.  To complicate matters she has fallen in love with a vampire! (So did I!!)  Dixie is wonderfully funny, innovative and adorable.  Christopher is strong, handsome and hopelessly in love with Dixie, but it's an impossible situation.  How will it all turn out?  Why not buy a copy and enjoy all the fun I did!  Excellent story line and terrific characters.  I'm looking forward to more midnight adventures!<br />If you like vampires, this is the book for you!	2000-11-18
US	51860314	R37R2XZT4RHT4J	0312976801	964392040	All I Want For Christmas	Books	5	57	58	N	N	ALL I WANT FOR CHRISTMAS Anthology Lori Foster, et al	This is the perfect gift for a romance lover who likes a sensuous romance.  It gives you a taste of different time periods and the writing is very fresh and the stories will put a smile on your face.  These gals know how to turn up the heat!<br />THE PROPER LOVER by Eileen Wilks<br />The setting is Sussex, Englnad: l807, and the tale is utterly delightful.  Emily Smythe wants to experience sexual love and be ruined.  She's tired of her life with her aunt and uncle who don't really want her around and constantly criticize her.  Then everything changes when she meets James Edward Charles Drake, Baron Redding, the second son of the Earl of Mere in the woods while she's gather Christmas greens.  James is a rake and takes the liberty of kissing his woodland sprite and Emily is in a spin afterward and decides he is the man she wants to take her virginity.  What a hoot!<br />Emily sets out late at night to walk the mile to where James is staying with the outrageous Lord and Lady Debenham in order to seduce him so she won't have to marry the suitors her uncle has picked out for her.  All I can say is James meets a woman who is dangerous to this rakedom!  This story will have you smiling your face off.  There are some memorable scenes!  I had a coughing fit laughing.<br />SANTA WEARS SPURS by Kinley MacGregor <br />I fell in love with this tale of the Old West.  Outlaw Michael O'Connell fell in love with a wonderful girl and then left her.  Now five years later he is unknowingly headed back to her as he returns money stolen from an orphanage.  The man is handsome as sin and Catherine has never been able to forget him and if she ever sees him again she's going to kill him.  What a way to go!  No more hints for you. &lt;G&gt; You're going to love this one!<br />CHRISTMAS BONUS by Lori Foster<br />Maggie Carmichael and friend and co-worker, sexy hunk, Eric Braggs are thrown together planning the office Christmas Party.  Eric had been entranced by Maggie the first time he saw her at seventeen and he's biding his time until she grows up.  Now five years later, she's graduated from college and stepped from boss's daughter to boss after her father's death.  Eric had been her father's friend and right-hand man.<br />Unbeknownst to Eric, Maggie's had a crush on him since the moment she met him too so now that's she's all grown up she sets out to seduce this sexy as sin man and claim him for her own.  Deliciously sexy and lots of fun!<br />A NIGHT WITH EMILY by Dee Holmes<br />When Emily Madden said she'd house sit for her friend she never dreamed her ex-lover, Johnny Cross, would be coming home.  He's back and mad as the devil.  Something's happened and Emily wants to know what has him so disturbed.  Johnny was the one who left her to get out of their small town and his father for a partnership in a construction company.  But apparently the flames of love are still there for Johnny and Emily as they almost go up in smoke in this tale of lost and found love.  <br />Every story is wonderful in this delightful anthology.  More of the same please ladies!	2000-11-18
US	51860314	R181MP2QCQ8TZ2	0373287046	34821765	Corner Of Heaven	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A CORNER OF HEAVEN by Theresa Michaels	A CORNER OF HEAVEN is set in Richmond, Virginia in the fall of 1862 during the Civil War.  It tells the story of Colonel Colter Saxton and Elizabeth Waring who through lies and deception were split apart and now reunited four years later.  Elizabeth's husband, James, is reported missing after a battle, and Elizabeth takes her daughter Nicole to Richmond where she hopes to get a job at the Treasury Office.  Imagine Colter's surprise when he spies Elizabeth in the crowd as she is making her way to see about a job.  And even more startling is the fact that when he corners Elizabeth, Colter finds out he has a daughter!<br />This is a love story that will grab your heartstrings and twist them extra tight as these two lovers fight a powerful love storm that creates havoc in their lives until they realize that this love is a &quot;corner of heaven&quot; for them both in a world gone crazy.  Colter is a hero who is compassionate, loyal, intelligent, caring, handsome, and a consummate lover.  Elizabeth is courageeous, loving and an exceptional mother.<br />The cast of secondary characters will touch your emotions on many levels.  Little Nicole is a precious little princess that will charm you.  There is danger from another quarter too.  Alma Waring will do anything to capture her granddaughter, even murder.  Treachery abounds from many directions to keep the pages flying, and as love grows between Elizabeth and Colter they are set afire by a sensuality that cannot be denied.  Wow, I had to fan myself a few times!  <br />Ms. Michaels' writes some of the best love stories going and this one set against the Civil War as a backdrop is certainly exceptional. It ends with a Gothic touch that is a spectacular climax.	2000-10-05
US	51860314	R14YJT1GOBP03I	051512883X	494543365	My Dark Prince	Books	5	1	3	N	N	My Dark Prince by Julia Ross	MY DARK PRINCE is a book you will want to read every word of to store away  as the story unfolds bit by wonderful bit.  This is one of the things I  adore about Julia Ross's writing.  She's a writer to be savored. She lets  you in on her characters and plot and then slowly, carefully fleshes them  out in glorious detail and what you though you knew about them in the  beginning changes.  Everything is done for a purpose.  If you hurry over  her beautiful prose you are going to miss out on something important.  Her  characters are very complex, deep, well developed, and extremely well  thought out.  She is a master storyteller who knows her history and does  her research.  There are some dark times readers but when the brilliant  light of love surfaces you forget all about it.<br />MY DARK PRINCE is a  keeper!	2000-08-24
US	51860314	RC07AAXIXX3TF	0451200497	572356460	Merely Magic	Books	5	16	18	N	N	MERELY MAGIC by Patricia Rice	The minute I started MERELY MAGIC I knew I held one heck of a compelling story in my hands.  Having been a fan of Ms. Rice's for years I knew her  storytelling abilities were phenomenal whether in the contemporary or  historical genres.  Her characters are deep, sensual and have a humorous  side too to give you a full-bodied tale you don't soon forget.<br />I love the  magical theme of MERELY MAGIC.  Ninian Malcolm Siddons is a witch with the  art of healing those in the village of Wystan beneath the Castle belonging  to Earl Drogo Ives, newely returned to the area.  Lord Ives doesn't realize  all the local folklore about the Malcolm witches and Ives devils.  All the  Ives' are dark, handsome and extremely virile and always sire males. The  Malcolm witches are all women, fair of face with golden locks and they  always birth females.  They have a bad history that Drogo knows nothing  about between the families.  It's rumored if the two families intermarry  the town will be destroyed.  Guess what happens?  You'll love the  chaos!<br />There is so much love, magic, and crazy family situations to sort  out that I know you are going to love being a part of this magical novel of  two extraordinary people who through the magic of love and working together  make this an unforgettable story to cherish.  I'm hoping to hear more of  the Malcolms and Ives' in the future.  They are unbelievably fascinating  characters that I know Ms. Rice can bring to life with verve.	2000-08-05
US	51860314	R1D4RB1O004S4I	0312868243	533689544	Ascendant Sun: A New Novel in the Saga of the Skolian Empire	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Ascendant Sun by Catherine Asaro	I have to tell you I am hooked on Catherine Asaro's Saga of the Skolian Empire and all her glorious larger than life characters.  It is a fantastic story of high-tech (I don't know how she does it, but I am fascinated!),  intergalactic characters that fill you with wonder, and terrific romance  that makes for an unbeatable combination that reels you into the  story.<br />ASCENDANT SUN is the fifth book in the series about Kelric, the  youngest son of Roca and Eldrinson, who belongs to the Ruby Dynasty.   Kelric's story is told in the novels THE LAST HAWK and ASCENDANT SUN.  You  are going to love this golden man who is large, strong, extremely  intelligent and a magnificent male.  He generates more action and adventure  in this story as he has escaped from the planet of Coba where he was  imprisoned by some powerful women (THE LAST HAWK) who went to war over him  in a role reversal of the Helen of Troy story.<br />After eighteen years he  escapes and returns to Skolian space to discover everything has changed,  and the Allied Forces of Earth, due to the upheaval of the Radiance War  control the Empire.  He only has the clothes on his back, his intelligence  and ingenuity to get him through the danger he's in.  I was awed by his  ability to turn this around to serve his purpose of escaping and doing  everything he could to preserve himself and his integrity.  I loved all the  scientific dialogue between Kelric and,Bolt, a computer inside of Kelric,  and the interaction between the two when dealing with life threatening  situations.<br />Kelric is auctioned as a slave &quot;provider&quot; to the  cruel Aristos that are after him for his beauty, intelligence and superior  abilities.  He is a much-coveted prize.  Kelric is a man who doesn't like  everything he has to do but he has to be flexible and overcome great  obstacles to accomplish his goal of saving his people and reclaiming his  title. The man is truly amazing.  His kindness and caring for people shines  throughout the book like a beacon of peace and strength.  He is a warrior  and a peacemaker, which makes for a terrific negotiator and ruler.<br />Wait  until you meet all the extraordinary people that make you want to know the  entire story.  I especially liked Jeejon, a woman who felt compassion for  Kelric and went out of her way to help him when she was his last hope of  reaching safety.  By dong so she is given a gift she never dreamed could  happen to her in a trillion years.  <br />The end of this book sets up the  premise for the next stellar read.  This is one humdinger of a saga you  don't want to miss.  If you haven't read it, order it and the other books  on Amazon.com.  You won't be disappointed.<br />Ms. Asaro does an excellent  job of giving you all the scientific facts blended with high adventure that  keeps you on the edge of a cliff.  It sometimes makes you think of free  falling with all the exhilarating excitement that it entails as you travel  through the galaxy. To me these books are classics.	2000-05-24
US	51860314	R3UI6FMEUGNB44	0553581511	663245621	The Veiled Web	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A VEILED WEB by Catherine Asaro	Catherine Asaro has created a crossroads for romance and science fiction fans to feast on with her extraordinary new novel, A VEILED WEB.  She not only tells a tale involving American ballet star, Lucia del Mar, and a  vastly intelligent Moroccan businessman, Rashid al-Jazari, who created a  computer system that is revolutionary in scope but shows up the differences  in their cultures.<br />This is a truly fascinating book that will thrill you  with edge of your seat adventure as Lucia and Rashid are kidnapped and  thrown into a quandary as how to escape their captors.  Rashid comes up  with a solution and takes Lucia to his home in Morocco as his wife.  Here  she encounters Rashid's work on artificial intelligence as well as his  family and the challenges she has to overcome with being Rashid's wife.   Immersed in all this is Lucia's growing attraction for a man not of her  culture, her love of dance, which is her life, and her compelling need to  talk with Zaki in the Jarizi Suit.  This book snags you and doesn't let go  for a minute.<br />This is a book you want to read more than once.  To me this  is a &quot;Golden Keeper!&quot;	2000-03-05
US	51860314	R1CW0YKLIPT9WF	0449006352	249824558	Prince Charming (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	PRINCE CHARMING	PRINCE CHARMING is the third book in the Ascencion trilogy begun by talented new author Gaelen Foley in September of '98, and it sweeps you off your feet with adventure, intrigue, and sizzling, spicy hot romance.  I'm  still trying to catch my breath.  Honestly, Prince Rafael di Fiore could  charm the socks off you in no time, not to mention a few other things.   He's a wild playboy, and can this prince ever play, and he's under his  father's thumb, but fighting to be his own man.<br />One night he meets the  challenge of his life when his coach is held up by the famous Masked Rider,  who is beloved by his townspeople, who rob from the rich to give to the  poor on her land.  Lady Daniela Chiaramonte is none other than the lady  behind this charade.  When tracing and capturing the bandits on her land he  meets the fiery redhead, unaware of her true identity.  She is independent,  stands up to him and actually resists his charm, something that has never  happened to him before.  So begins a battle of wills between these two  dynamic persons that will enchant you.  Dani's pure loving spirit and her  innocence and loyalty to Rafe is his saving grace and helps make him into  the man he had always dreamed of becoming.  In turn, Dani finds a man who  is caring, gentle and oh, so loving.  In truth, his crown is not upon his  head but on his heart!<br />This book is much more than it seems at first and  as the layers are taken off these complex characters you find they are not  what they seem at all.  As you delve into Rafe's and Dani's secret dreams  and their growing love for one another you will be thrilled by their trust  and loyalty that sets them free to be the best that they can be.  That  working together they can be united in purpose to disperse the hoard of  enemies who want to keep them apart.  This is truly a book with pulse  pounding excitement as it twists and turns in unexpected directions to keep  you right on the edge of your seat.  PRINCE CHARMING is a bookyou will  want to read again and again.  Wow!<br />PRINCE CHARMING is divine reading.   Don't miss it!	2000-02-07
US	51860314	R2H15WPTWSL5BW	0966164423	507051876	Moonlight (My Romance Series)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	MOONLIGHT	Katherine Downing and Michael Nightingale are caught in a curse brought down upon the Nigtingale family 100 years ago in 1690 by Katherine's great-great-grandmother Rachel Dobbs when her lover, Jonathan Nightingale's  testimony condemed her as a witch.<br />Michael is the Nightingale heir and is  forced to wander in agony as a potent force transforms him into a  frightening predator until a woman can set him free.<br />Suzanne Forster's  novella, MOONLIGHT, is brought to life by the magnificent performances of  soap opera stars Kim Zimmer and Robert Newman from The Guilding Light.   Robert Newman brings forth the dark, dangerous, sensual Michael Nightingale  up front and personal to seduce your senses and feel his torment at having  to daily live with what he's become due to the curse as well as fight his  desire for the lovely Katherine.<br />Kim Zimmer does a fabulous job of  creating Katherine Downing's strong character as a healer with a caring,  loving personality as she discovers a forbidden passion when she realizes  she is falling in love with Michael.  In truth, she may be his only hope of  releasing him from the curse.  Get ready for some spine tingling  suspense.<br />The stunning use of excellent music, direction, and mesmerzing  voices of the actors makes MOONLIGHT a first class production for producer  Gregg Marx, who obviously knows what he is doing, to bring you the finest  audio tapes that are a joy to listen too.	2000-02-07
US	51860314	R3817RCUF8RZDB	0373291051	821790485	Once A Hero (Historical, 505)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	ONCE A HERO by Theresa Michaels	This book is definitely a knockout!  It's the fourth book about the infamous Kincaid brothers.  And Kee Kincaid is a special kind of hero.  He's the adopted son of Logan and Jesse Kincaid(ONCE AN OUTLAW '95) and  they have always called him a hero.  He's a man who doesn't walk away from  a fight or danger in any way.  He's brave, loyal and true to the bone.   Just the kind of man who would come to a woman's rescue and protect her  from harm.  And this hero has a horse named Outlaw who is exceptional too,  as you will find out.  He is also rewarded in the end.  What a great story  this is.  It's an adventure in survival, and a man and a woman who trust in  one another as they form a bond of love that is pure gold.<br />Isabel de  Cuervo needed Kee's help in the worse way as she was running from killers  who were after a map of a gold mine her grandfather told her the  whereabouts of.  This gold mine involves the legend of the Lost Dutchman  Mine.  It is a place of mystery and death.  As Kee helps Isabel search for  the mine they are beset by all sorts of troubles with a capital T.  One of  which is trying to fight the explosive pull of passion they have for one  another since Isabel has her mission in life and Kee has many trails and  things to explore before he settles down.  Between the sexual tension and  living under the feeling they may be killed at any moment, plus the  dangerous trails they travel you feel as strung out as they are.  You  hardly come up for air it's that exciting!  I couldn't put the book down  for a minute for fear I would miss something.  The love story woven  throughout the book is beautiful and endearing.  Ms. Michaels does a fine  job of building her characeters' relationship into one you won't soon  forget.  In fact, Theresa Michaels creates heroes that make a bee line  right into your heart and soul.	2000-02-04
US	51860314	R2F29T9VH1AME3	0385333609	319506287	Potent Pleasures (Enchanged Pleasures)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A fresh and exciting first novel set in England in 1798.	Once I started POTENT PLEASURES, I couldn't put it down.  I can't wait to read more from this talented author.  She had me hooked by her fascinating characters and witty plot.<br />The beautiful Charlote Daicheston wants a  taste of freedom before she makes her debut in London, so she and her  friend sneak out and go to a masked ball where she meets a handsome man who  is irresistible.  She finds herself in his strong arms in the garden and is  overwhelmed by her own sensual nature, as well as the stranger's, and is  ruined.  She doesn't know his name or anything about him and thinks he may  be a footman, so keeps her ruination a secret, but knowing she can never  marry now she will have to pursue her life as a painter.<br />Charlotte never  forgets her handsome stranger, a man with black hair shot with silver.   Unbeknownst to Charlotte, her stranger can't forget his &quot;garden  girl&quot; either and searched for her immediately afterward but without  success.  In reality he is Alexander Foakes, the infamous Earl of Sheffield  and Downes and he has an identical twin brother, Patrick; two men who are  always getting into trouble and after Charlotte's debut are sent out of the  country.  Now three years later, Charlotte meets the man who took her  virginity but he doesn't recognize her!  Alex has returned from Italy in a  blaze of gossip and meets the girl everyone says is a &quot;Diamond&quot;  and within 15 minutes tells a friend he is going to marry her.  You are  going to love reading whether Alex will win his lady's heart?<br />POTENT  PLEASURES is told with a marvelous sense of humor, intriguing characters,  sensual scenes that will rock you, and how life can get you into  unpredictable situations.  Will true love pull Alex and Charlotte through  the hard times to reunite them, or will it pass them by?  This is a very  satisfying love story that makes you wish for more.	1999-09-13
US	51860314	R1SBWJ2MIAJJMH	0425170365	620779944	Flower under Ice	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This is a book you will want to read more than once!	I have to say Ms. Ewing has created a magnificent hero in the person of Dominic Wyndham, a man classed as a notorious rake in London in the summer of l8l6, and a seker of thrills to rival those he experienced when a spy  during the Napoleonic Wars. Underneath the rake's facade is quite a  different man.  I first met him in Ms. Ewing's first historical, ILLUSION,  last year when the hero, Nigel Arundham, a master spy, befriended him along  with his ladylove Frances.  I was intrigued by Dominic then, and when I  finaly had the pleasure of reading his tale of traveling to Scotland with  the beautiful Highland lass, Catriona Sinclair to see about claiming a baby  she said was his deceased wife's, I knew I had to read this the minute it  hit the bookstores.  Dominic declares the only way he will travel with  Catriona is if she goes as his mistress and they explore the seven deadly  sins along the way on the seven-day journey.<br />There is more to Dominic  than you would believe when the book first opens.  In fact, there are many,  many layers to both Dominic and Catriona, and as they are peeled back you  will be astonished at what is uncovered.  Catriona is strong of spirit,  independent, and full of pride for her people.  Of course, I was up late at  night discovering all sorts of intiguing and fascinating things that  involved family secrets, revenge, lost love, bonding with friends and  strangers, and finally an exquisite love that defies everything in its  path.<br />Ms. Ewing's talent as a writer is showcased by her masterstroke of  characterization, excellent plotting, and her words are like jewels  sparkling and shimmering in their beauty as her story begins in England and  unfolds in the heather on the hills of bonnie Scotland.<br />This is a  powerful book you don't want to miss!  When you finish it I know you will  be racing out to get the first book, ILLUSION, and believe me you won't be  sorry you have done so - even though you don't need to read ILLUSION first  to love FLOWERS UNDER ICE.  I was never so glad in my life to be able to  sit back and enjoy a story that is so entertaining, well researched and  well written.  It is also breathtaking to behold a hero who never gives up  for a minute, whether it be fighting or loving.  Now that's my kind of  man!<br />&quot;Jean Ross Ewing deserves a solid gold coronet studded in  diamonds for writing FLOWERS UNDER ICE.&quot;           Suzanne Coleburn	1999-09-06
US	51860314	R2JMB17BWWUHVS	0373290691	190303774	The Merry Widows: Sarah	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What a &quot;knock out ending&quot; for this fantastic trilogy!	Having enjoyed the first two books in the Merry Widow trilogy I was all set to enjoy Sarah's story. She is strong, independent, and a woman who is training and selling horses on her own now that Catherine and Mary have  married and have homes of their own. <br />Rio Santee is a man on the run with  his two sons.  He is accused of murder and is being hunted by killers who  are more like animals.  He finds Sarah's home in a rainstorm and seeks  shelter and food for his sons.  Sarah is shocked, but comes to realize she  will come to no harm, and decides to help Rio and his sons since he is in  dire striates.  It never seems to stop raining, which keeps the townspeople  away as well as the killers.<br />One of the things that Rio wants to protect  Sarah against is that he is part Apache, and although he never fought with  the Apaches against the whites, he is an outcast.  He suffered a family  tragedy when his deceased Irish grandfather left him a house and land.   Breeds were not allowed to own property and it was taken away from him with  tragic results.<br />Sarah and Rio both have deep secrets that have caused  them great pain.  As they learn to know one another they find themselves  caring about one another and are able to share their pain and through love  are healed.  I did a whole lot of crying while reading this uplifting  romance.  Get out the hankie box!  And it's got a knockout ending.<br />To me,  Sarah's story wraps up this trilogy perfectly with a great heroine and a  hero you'll remember for a long time to come.  He is phenomenal.  I think  you will be turning the pages just as quickly as I did.  Look forward to a  rewarding reading experience and I bet you will be smiling through your  tears and cheering for a writer who believes in the power of love.  Ms.  Michaels, I love your books, your spirit, your creativity, and you write  the best dag-gone heroes ever!	1999-07-15
US	51860314	RRVP9OM1N99ZH	0671778633	119994188	Bewitching	Books	5	79	85	N	N	BEWITCHING makes you want to take time to smell the roses!	When I first read BEWITCHING I had so many laughs at Joy, a witch who just couldn't seem to get her spells right that my family had to tell me to calm down. Joy landed herself in more trouble the moment she landed in the  carriage with the handsome Lord Alex.  The poor man didn't know what he was  in for.  I loved the way she changed Alex from a person who ran his life by  the clock into a caring, loving man who was often covered in rose  petals.<br />Joy's familiar was a riot and I laughed so hard at times I was  crying, especially when he was working away on a certain footman's wig.  I  told a friend I couldn't read this in public since I would make a fool of  myself laughing my head off at certain parts, and believe me my family  concured.<br />This is a story that brings home the fact that many of us don't  take time to laugh or do some silly things in life to make ourselves and  others happy.<br />Jill Barnet is an excellent writer who knows how to bring  love and laughter to her readers.<br />This is one author whose works go right  on my keeper shelf whether they are of a serious content or down right  tickle your funnybone.	1999-06-29
US	51860314	RLUD66SF8SMVO	0440225183	478826777	Into the Sunset	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A fresh storyline that captures your attention!	Shelly Thacker's powerful writing, characters who are dynamic, strong, stubborn, and have backbone, the kind of people who creep into your heart and leave you breathless makes INTO THE SUNSET a MUST READ!  Don't miss  this first book in the &quot;Lawless Nights&quot; series or you will be  sorry you did.<br />Order this book right away and I can bet you will be up  half the night reading it, it's that good.	1999-05-27
US	51860314	R3V67W330EV77N	0966433203	286696000	Lip Service	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Women read this book and take another look at your life!	Reading LIP SERVICE in one day I was able to get the full impact of this well written book that entertains, challenges, arouses, haunts, shocks, and just down right makes you take another look at your life.  Once you get  into this novel, which to me is a story within a story, I couldn't put it  down until the end.  There is an underlying tender love story woven in as  well as a psychological thriller rolled into one to get your senses  reeling.  In fact, I wouldn't have missed reading this book.  It is very  thought provoking and hits you on many levels at once.  It's about a woman  who is a prisoner trapped in her life and doesn't realize it until she is  requested to write a book about phone sex.  As she gets a glimpse into  others fantasies she is appalled at what she encounters; the evil side of  her clients, eroticism, and her sexuality is challenged so that she is a  woman in turmoil with her emotions.    She is the daughter of a  psychiatrist and married to one who is handsome, renowned and has a  Pandora's box of his own.  Julia Sterling seems to have a perfect life, a  well-respected husband, a loving stepson, pursuing her degree in  journalism, the best of everything, or so it seems until she starts  training as a phone sex operator, and then the world she once knew is  turned upside down.    Ms. Rose is simply wonderful and I predict she is  headed for stardom!	1999-03-02
US	51860314	R2L5UTE4APJJVO	0671026240	441692813	Moon Dance	Books	5	5	5	N	N	MOON DANCE is a book to cherish!	Georgia Enright has come to a turning point in her life--to pursue the profession of a dancer or to move on.  Taking leave of the ballet dance troupe she goes to visit her new half-sister Laura at the Bishops's Inn in  Maryland.<br />At Pumpkin Hill, Laura's family's homestead, Georgia runs into  Laura's adopted brother Matt, who wants her gone as soon as possible.  He  feels the Enright's are taking Laura over as far as he is concerned.  Matt  was adopted and has problems of his own to overcome before he can accept  the Enrights into the family.  Well, he'd better watch out for the love-bug  that the Enright family is so good at spreading around.<br />Georgia accepts  Laura's offer of staying at Pumpkin Hill until she decides what to do with  her life.  The sparks are flying when Laura finds she would like to teach  ballet in the barn, and Matt wants to open his veterinary practice there  too.  Georgia's family comes to her rescue to help her move into her new  digs and give her the loving support she's always known.<br />As Georgia gets  into farm life she finds an adorable little pig has been wrecking the  garden.  Now she has the little porcine trotting behind her and can't bear  to part with little Spammy!  And she is starting to feel the same way about  Matt too.  And I can't blame her!<br />There are surprises in store for you  that you won't want to miss out on, so as soon as you can, order from  Amazon Com now, and then settle down for a fantastic read.  MOON DANCE is  filled with excitement, suspense, and a passionate love story told by a  master storyteller who has written her best book yet--it's  perfect!<br />&quot;Reading a book by Mariah Stewart is like coming home, the  best place to be!  It's the loving arms, the ties that bind, the family  traditions, resolving problems, great relationships, and the power of love  that makes Ms. Stewart's stories so very special that you just want to hug  them.	1998-11-26
US	51860314	R1O4FSLY1SUYGA	0446605824	913932053	Indiscreet	Books	5	11	12	N	N	One of the funniest prologues I've ever read!	INDISCREET is set in Regency England--a time period Ms. Michaels is famous  for since she does it so well.<br />The prologue had me laughing so hard I  couldn't see for the tears streaming down my face.  I won't give it away,  but Ms. Michaels' set it up superbly.  I find myself thinking of it  sometimes during the day and laughing out loud again.  Only now I have  people looking at me strangely and I can't begin to tell them what really  happened.<br />Sophie Winstead arrives in London to have her promised Season.   She is staying with her staid guardian Bramwell Seaton.  The beautiful  Sophie sets London on its ear as well as Bram.  For a man who tries to keep  himself in control around Sophie he finds she frustrates him, exasperates  him and finally dazzles him so that he is in danger of losing his  heart.<br />What keeps this rolling is there are secrets Sophie does and  doesn't know, but we know, and so do others in the story, resulting in some  hilarous as well as touching scenes.  Besides Sophie's talking parrot, and  a monkey who swings from the chandeliers, there are rafts of secondary  characters that are unforgettable.  And the best part is how Sophie helps  to solve problems--absolutely priceless!<br />If you want to laugh and have a  wonderful read, then don't miss INDISCREET.  Ms. Michaels is in a class by  herself.<br />Suzanne Coleburn	1998-10-15
US	51860314	R30E6MU9NLI12S	1854878808	882801914	Secrets Rising (Scarlet Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I guarantee you won't be able to put this book down!	Imagine what would happenen if your parents were killed in an auto  accident?  You are cleaning out the house and you find a paper in a locked  drawer that tells you that you are adopted and whatever you do don't try to  find out who you are.  You decide to brave it and go to a PI.  He wants to  investiage on his own, but you show up at his motel since you are used to  running your own life and now you feel the safe life you once had is  destroyed.<br />Now we are swept 30 years in the past and meet the real mother  and father and we get their story by degrees.  Here is where I was up until  the wee hours of the morning since I had to find out what would happen  next.<br />You are getting a block buster read for a low cost by a top writer.   Once you read this you will go back and order Ms. Steward's other titles.   Whatever you do, if you like suspense, don't miss this fabulous  book.<br />Suzanne Coleburn	1998-10-02
US	51860314	R2QY1GGZYGFVWJ	0373167482	563917279	Cowboy Cootchie - Coo (Accidental Dads)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A story told from the heart!	Tina Leonard has taken a jump from SCARLET books to Harlequin American  Romance, and now we're gathered at the Yellowjacket Cafe and meet cowboy  Brant Durning whose been away for three months, and when he returns he  receives a shock when lovely Grace Barclay tells him he is going to be a  daddy!  Oh, boy, there's big trouble in Fairhaven, Texas.  Brant is also  going to be an uncle!  This is a baby making town.  You take a short leave  of absence and look what happens.  Ms. Leonard has a style all her own when  it comes to cowboys and babies.<br />You are going to have a lot of fun  reading this adorable story!<br />Suzanne Coleburn	1998-09-24
US	51860314	R149J263DUB4OL	0451195760	511163800	Miss Tibbles' Folly (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Regency times &amp; customs with outstanding characters!	At last all the fans of Ms. Kihlstrom have the pleasure of savoring the  story of Miss Tibbles, the formidable governess who helped all five of Lord  and Lady Wescott's daughters secure five wonderful husbands.  Now Miss  Tibbles is free at last.  Her employers find that as much as they admire  Miss Tibbles, she is not the easiest person to have around as she is  daunting and not at all the most comfortable person to be with.  Lord and  Lady Wescott send her to Bath for a well deserved vacation.<br />Once settled,  Miss Tibbles takes a walk and crashes head long into Colonel Merriweather,  a retired army officer who had served with Miss Tibbles' fiance, before he  died in battle.  Before long they are taking walks and becoming friends.   It seems Cupid's arrows are upsetting the Colonel and Miss Tibbles for she  is changing her hair style, buying a rose colored dress, dancing with the  Colonel and even receives his kiss in public no less!  Heaven forbid, but  the two lovers have set Bath on its ear.<br />I love how outspoken everyone is  in telling the two lovebirds what to do and how to do it.  This will have  you laughing your head off as the two respond in like for a rollicking good  time at seeing how everyone is sparring at one another.  Miss Tibbles'  charges get into the act along with their husbands and Bow Street runners.   There are all kinds of secrets to uncover to make this book jolly good fun.   Ms. Kihlstrom has a wonderful way with words and does an excellent job of  bringing Regency England to your doorstep.	1998-09-15
US	51860314	R3Q1V294FSMNZQ	0425164470	646929521	Illusion	Books	5	4	4	N	N	ILLUSION is extraordinary in every way, shape and form.	This book deserves all your attention.  This is a knock your socks off  book that will blow you away.   ILLUSION takes place in London and France  at the time of the Battle of Waterloo.  The characters are extraordinary.   Frances Woodward is a trained courtesan in the arts of the Kama Sutra, and  had escaped from India.  She dresses in floating silks and carries an air  of mystery about her.  The brilliant spy, Nigel Arundham, Marquess of  Rivaulx covets her and wins her as his mistress in a game of chance from a  man he suspects is a traitor.  Nigel is an exceptional man who is very  talented in mathematics and breaks enemy codes to help the British.  He is  a man of secrets, dangerous, and extremely seductive.  Frances is caught in  a web of intrigue and desire as she is swept into deadly plots along with  Nigel.     There are some wonderful secondary characters that add spice to  the plot.  One in particular caught my attention the first time I met him  in the story, and I am glad to say Ms. Ewing did not disappoint me, since  he'll have his own story in her next book from Berkley, FLOWERS UNDER ICE.    This is a superb love story that encompasses danger, mystery, intrigue,  and a love that is unforgettable.  Brava Ms. Ewing for being such a  magnificent storyteller.  Your shooting star illuminates the heavens.   ILLUSION definately belongs on your &quot;keeper&quot; shelf.	1998-08-25
