US	51873758	R2T8B8XFON0Y3I	1885705026	30470303	Please Understand Me II: Temperament, Character, Intelligence	Books	4	16	20	N	Y	Vive La Difference	Does your temperament determine your fate? Since Plato's time, thinkers and storytellers have believed that each of us comes into the world with a discernable disposition and innate talents.  By the beginning of the twentieth century, though, the notion of distinct personality types had fallen out of favor.  Psychologists bought into Freud's basic assertion that unconscious drives determined behavior, and behavioral scientists accepted Pavlov's theory that all humans are a bundle of specific responses to specific stimuli.  It took the publication of Carl Jung's Psychological Types in the 1920s to revive the debate about temperamental differences.<br /><br />An important dividing line for Jung was whether people recharged their batteries by going out into the world (extrovert) or retreating from it (introvert).  He also categorized individual psychological makeup based on the strength of a person's thinking, feeling, sensing and intuiting responses.  Jung's work stayed largely theoretical until Isabel Meyers and her mother, Kathryn Briggs, created a test that measured where people fit within Jung's model.  First used in schools during the 1950s, The Meyers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) has been taken by millions of people who want to figure out where their aptitudes lie, and is still widely used today.<br /><br />David Keirsey's contribution to temperament theory has been to both deepen Meyer's work by tracking its historical antecedents (there seems to have been consensus through the ages that there are four basic temperaments) and to broaden it by describing how the personalities measured by the MBTI actually behave.  Please Understand Me, first published in 1978, sold over two million copies.  In Please Understand Me II, published in 1998, Keirsey updates his test for sorting yourself into one of four broad temperaments: Artisan, Guardian, Idealist and Rational.  Each of the four types is subdivided into four finer-grained variants based upon how abstract or concrete you are, and whether you're cooperative or utilitarian in your use of tools and resources.  Besides giving extensive descriptions of how the four temperament types operate in the world, he ties them to the type of intelligence they are most likely to use - tactical, logistical, diplomatic, or strategic.  He also makes some generalizations about how each temperament performs in mating, parenting and leading.<br /><br />According to Keirsey, there is no right or wrong temperament.  What people do wrong is to try and \\"remake our companions in our own image\\" - which he labels the Pygmalion process. He makes the sensible point that our passage through this world will be much smoother if we understand our own strengths and limitations, and understand how others either resemble or differ from us.  Keirsey, and Meyers before him, achieved popular success because what they measure and describe conforms with what people see when they operate in the real world.  Chances are high that you'll recognize yourself as one of Keirsey's temperamental types, and will learn something about yourself by reading what drives that particular temperament.  You'll also see that people who don't react the way you do aren't being bloody minded.  They're following the promptings of their temperamental imperatives, just as you are.<br /><br />All theories have limitations, and, to this reader, Keirsey's seems to underweight other elements that influence our response to the world.  These elements include the language you think in, the country you were born in, the historical moments you live through, your physical makeup and your physiological functioning.  To take two random examples, the Guardian temperament is supposed to have a great respect for authority.  But Guardians who came of age in the 1960s may have imbibed some anti-authoritarian cultural biases that thrust them outside the temperamental norm.  If you're an Idealist who is six foot seven and weighs 300 pounds, you may have spent less time developing the empathy for which Idealists are noted because people react more to you than you to them.<br /><br />All the data about temperament come from personal observation; there is as yet no hard scientific grounding for Keirsey's conclusions.  The ultimate theory of temperament awaits the discovery of specific gene sequences that create the various personality types.  (How this will foot to those who believe in god-given abilities should make for some interesting debates.)  Until scientists decrypt the molecular basis of temperament, we'll have to rely on the close observation and insightful conclusions Keirsey and his predecessors have supplied.  Temperament theory is a handy tool.  Used in conjunction with other types of self-knowledge, it helps you figure out who you are, which will help you to understand, and perhaps embrace, your fate.for which Idealists are noted because people react more to you than you to them.    All the data about temperament come from personal observation; there is as yet no hard scientific grounding for Keirsey's conclusions.  The ultimate theory of temperament awaits the discovery of specific gene sequences that create the various personality types.  (How this will foot to those who believe in god-given abilities should make for some interesting debates.)  Until scientists decrypt the molecular basis of temperament, we'll have to rely on the close observation and insightful conclusions Keirsey and his predecessors have supplied.  Temperament theory is a handy tool.  Used in conjunction with other types of self-knowledge, it helps you figure out who you are, which will help you to understand, and perhaps embrace, your fate.	2005-09-20
US	51873758	R38NR055AADBB7	0813912997	617681754	Freedom Summer (Carter G. Woodson Institute Series)	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	The Long, Hot Summer	This past June, the State of Mississippi successfully prosecuted and convicted Edgar Ray Killen for his involvement in the murder of three civil rights workers during the summer of 1964.  Judging by the national attention paid to this forty year old case, the psychic wounds from America's civil rights battles refuse to scar over.<br /><br />The murdered youths - Andrew Goodman, James Chaney and Mickey Schwerner - were part of The Summer Project, which was a desperate call for help from SNCC, the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee.  SNCC leaders understood that few Americans cared enough about the routine beating and jailing of blacks to force Mississippi to change its lawless ways.  But if white college students were treated like Mississippi's blacks, outrage, and perhaps federal intervention, would follow.  SNCC (working through COFO, an umbrella civil rights group) put out a call for white volunteers who would plug into education and voter registration projects throughout the state and about a thousand volunteers responded.  These young men and women, most of them students from elite colleges, were in many ways the best of their generation: compassionate, accomplished, idealistic.  One of the volunteers, Sally Belfrage, wrote this beautifully observed account of her two turbulent months in Mississippi.<br /><br />Belfrage was assigned to Greenwood, a Delta town mired in the old-time cotton economy and the racial exploitation required to run it.  Greenwood also happened to be SNCC's state headquarters and to have Stokely Carmichael as its local SNCC project director. Greenwood, SNCC,and the Summer Project made for a volatile mix.  The white volunteers boarded in black homes, and both they and their hosts were continually harassed, beaten and jailed for minor or imaginary infractions of local laws.  (Belfrage herself spent several days in the local jail after being arrested at a protest march.)  She is especially good at analyzing and describing her own emotional states, honestly portraying the fear, exhaustion and exhilaration of fighting on the front lines during the active combat phase of America's race wars.  The prose in which she paints Greenwood and the daily struggles of its African-American residents is detailed, insightful and often poetic.  The last part of the book, which describes the rifts in the black community between the non-violent and direct action advocates is particularly riveting, and foreshadows the subsequent struggles in the civil rights movement.<br /><br />Freedom Summer provides a vivid snapshot of one Mississippi town during that long, hot summer, and one white woman's acute observations about what occurred there.  What's missing is any effort to place the summer's struggles within the historical context of the civil rights movement.  In particular, black SNCC field workers displayed almost unimaginable courage during the two years prior to the Summer Project as they ventured alone and unarmed in into brutal racist enclaves. The physical and psychological toll from those years must be understood to make sense of SNCC's tactics in 1964 and the organization's subsequent rejection of the white helping hand.  Belfrage could have provided this context because she had travelled in the South during 1963 to write articles about the Civil Rights movement.<br /><br />She doesn't mention this fact, or much else about why she went to Mississippi, or what she did before she got there.  A little research reveals that Belfrage was born in America to British parents and had been living in England and Russia before returing to American in the early sixties.  She was 28 in 1964, older than the typical volunteer and had already published a book about her experiences living and working in Moscow.  Freedom Summer was published in 1965, and in 1968 she moved to London which remained her lifelong base while she pursued her career as a journalist/social activist.  (She died of cancer in 1994.)  Her biography helpsexplain the curiously unmoored feeling of \\"Freedom Summer.\\"  Belfrage wasn't the typical volunteer.  She was at the same time more sophisticated and less rooted in the particular dilemmas of being American at that time.  She's able to maintain clarity and objectivity, which are valuable assets to a reporter who was effectively operating in a war zone.  But even though she was an active participant, and often in harm's way during the summer, we don't get a sense of what she has invested or what she has to lose, which is why this is a very good memoir about an important historical moment, but not a great one.<br /><br />What the more typical Summer Project volunteer went through can be found in Letters from Mississippi, which was reissued by Zephyr Press in 2002.  This book collects the raw insights and feelings of the volunteers through the letters they wrote to family and friends.  Their bravery, and idealism and dismay at the poverty and lawlessness they encountered shine through.  The biggest shock to most of the volunteers was discovering that racial oppression was propped up by the Southern courts and particularly by the police, who operated as a law unto themselves.  The cowardly refusal of the FBI to intervene in the mayhem being perpetrated on civil rights workers also opened many volunteer eyes to fundamental flaws in the federal government.  Many who came down to Mississippi as idealistic liberals believing that government was the solution went home believing that government was the problem.  The death throes of FDR's New Deal began at the business end of a policeman's billy club thunking off white liberal skulls in 1964.<br /><br />The disillusionment with government that began on the dusty roads of Mississippi was reinforced by the urban riots of the sixties, the political assassinations of King and Bobby Kennedy, the moral horrors of Vietnam, and the cynical machinations of the Nixon administration.  That rift has never been repaired.  Today, Baby Boomers on both the left and the right have little faith in the government's ability to solve our problems.  The tragedy of this view is that we're being led by default to a harsher, less egalitarian society.  The TV images of poor blacks fleeing Hurricane Katrina's devastation with just the clothes on their backs while the federal government did nothing to help them makes one wonder, despite the fact the Southern courts now convict the Edgar Ray Killens for their crimes against humanity, just how far we've actually come since 1964.feeling of \\"Freedom Summer.\\"  Belfrage wasn't the typical volunteer.  She was at the same time more sophisticated and less rooted in the particular dilemmas of being American at that time.  She's able to maintain clarity and objectivity, which are valuable assets to a reporter who was effectively operating in a war zone.  But even though she was an active participant, and often in harm's way during the summer, we don't get a sense of what she has invested or what she has to lose, which is why this is a very good memoir about an important historical moment, but not a great one.      What the more typical Summer Project volunteer went through can be found in Letters from Mississippi, which was reissued by Zephyr Press in 2002.  This book collects the raw insights and feelings of the volunteers through the letters they wrote to family and friends.  Their bravery, and idealism and dismay at the poverty and lawlessness they encountered shine through.  The biggest shock to most of the volunteers was discovering that racial oppression was propped up by the Southern courts and particularly by the police, who operated as a law unto themselves.  The cowardly refusal of the FBI to intervene in the mayhem being perpetrated on civil rights workers also opened many volunteer eyes to fundamental flaws in the federal government.  Many who came down to Mississippi as idealistic liberals believing that government was the solution went home believing that government was the problem.  The death throes of FDR's New Deal began at the business end of a policeman's billy club thunking off white liberal skulls in 1964.      The disillusionment with government that began on the dusty roads of Mississippi was reinforced by the urban riots of the sixties, the political assassinations of King and Bobby Kennedy, the moral horrors of Vietnam, and the cynical machinations of the Nixon administration.  That rift has never been repaired.  Today, Baby Boomers on both the left and the right have little faith in the government's ability to solve our problems.  The tragedy of this view is that we're being led by default to a harsher, less egalitarian society.  The TV images of poor blacks fleeing Hurricane Katrina's devastation with just the clothes on their backs while the federal government did nothing to help them makes one wonder, despite the fact the Southern courts now convict the Edgar Ray Killens for their crimes against humanity, just how far we've actually come since 1964.	2005-09-09
US	51873758	R1H340094T9ON3	0316159395	657855247	Absolute Friends	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Important Book by a Major Novelist	Okay, le Carre's last book, The Constant Gardener, was marred by too much anti-capitalist pontificating, and the ending of this one declares its post 9/11 ideological leanings in a very blunt way, but don't dismiss le Carre as a crank: Absolute Friends is a first rate novel by a first rate writer working near the top of his form.<br /><br />In this book le Carre fuses two of his main preoccupations: the inner lives of spies and the patched-together moral systems of men living on the crumbling fringes of the British Empire.  Ted Mundy is the son of a disgraced soldier mustered out of the British Army in Pakistan.  Ted's father takes him back to England where he endures the rainy, inhospitable life of a down-at-the-heels English schoolboy.  His love of the German language and its literature carries him to Berlin during the sixties, where he falls in with a left-leaning tribe of radicals and anarchists.  It's here that he meets his lifelong friend, Sasha, the renegade son of a German Lutheran pastor.<br /><br />Sasha, both street-smart and hopelessly romantic, jumps over the wall to East Germany, where he becomes as disillusioned with ham-fisted socialism as he had been with exploitative capitalism.  Ted, now back in Britain, shepherding art groups on tours through Iron Curtain countries, meets his old friend again in East Berlin.  Sasha, under the guise of recruiting Mundy as a German spy, becomes in turn a double agent for the Brits.  This is familiar turf for le Carre, and he mines it for his usual insightful explorations of individual identity.  Ted has to deal with who he is, both in the existential moments of deception, and during the dead times when it's just him and the left-over bits of personality that he's kept out of the day-to-day masquerades.<br /><br />The crumbling of the Soviet Empire puts an abrupt end to Ted and Sasha's spy careers.  Ted is rewarded with a language school in Germany that eventually takes a financial nosedive.  Sasha wanders in the wilderness as an itinerant radical lecturer until he meets Dmitri, a man with a murky past and a messianic vision for the modern west.  Sasha finds Ted and enlists him in yet another scheme to redeem the world from error.  What happens next is what might occur if America were run by a dogmatic, not- very-bright leader who happened to be fronting for people opportunistic enough to use the threat of terrorist attacks as a means of consolidating their power.<br /><br />Sasha and Ted are immensely sympathetic characters who have compassion in abundance, a sense of history, and a belief in the world's inter-connectedness.  What makes them different from Smiley and le Carre's other spies is that they're only intermittently propped up by their sense of historical imperative; otherwise they're forced to improvise, and it's this combustible mix of idealism and improvisation that leads to tragedy.<br /><br />Le Carre burns with moral outrage, but he doesn't let his beliefs outrun his literary judgment.  The pacing here is masterful, the prose precise, and the characters nuanced in their feelings and reactions.  At a historical moment when the very idea of nuance is under attack, we need more writers who have the drive and talent to make us ask what it means to be a socially responsible human in this particular time.  Such writers are a necessary counterweight to those politicians who use current events to ram home their political agendas.erant radical lecturer until he meets Dmitri, a man with a murky past and a messianic vision for the modern west.  Sasha finds Ted and enlists him in yet another scheme to redeem the world from error.  What happens next is what might occur if America were run by a dogmatic, not- very-bright leader who happened to be fronting for people opportunistic enough to use the threat of terrorist attacks as a means of consolidating their power.    Sasha and Ted are immensely sympathetic characters who have compassion in abundance, a sense of history, and a belief in the world's inter-connectedness.  What makes them different from Smiley and le Carre's other spies is that they're only intermittently propped up by their sense of historical imperative; otherwise they're forced to improvise, and it's this combustible mix of idealism and improvisation that leads to tragedy.    Le Carre burns with moral outrage, but he doesn't let his beliefs outrun his literary judgment.  The pacing here is masterful, the prose precise, and the characters nuanced in their feelings and reactions.  At a historical moment when the very idea of nuance is under attack, we need more writers who have the drive and talent to make us ask what it means to be a socially responsible human in this particular time.  Such writers are a necessary counterweight to those politicians who use current events to ram home their political agendas.	2005-08-28
US	51873758	R2WTGSPF5USTPE	155369175X	120339212	Secular Wholeness: A Skeptic's Paths To A Richer Life	Books	5	37	38	N	Y	Life's Own User Manual	David Cortesi's premise is that the benefits of traditional religions are available to non-religious people if they're given the tools to reframe these benefits in secular terms.  Cortesi proves capable of delivering on his generous but ambitious agenda.  He's smart enough to sort through contending philosophies, honest enough to admit his biases, and grounded enough to not lose his way among the murky ambiguities of existence.<br /><br />He starts by exploring religion's payoffs.  First and foremost, religion provides answers to those two bedeviling questions: who am I and why am I here?  You also get ritual practices that orient you in time and space, a ready-made community of like-minded people, and a pre-assembled ethical structure.  Religion gives you tools for dealing with life's pitfalls and pratfalls, and ways to cope with your passage out of here.  Religious believers get to feel the kind of contented bliss that's been missing since those golden days when it was just the infant you and an attentive caregiver placing a nipple between your lips.  Finally, the lucky few occasionally plug in to states of ecstatic transcendence.<br /><br />Sounds attractive, but there's a catch.  To get the benefits, you have to buy in to the whole agenda, and most of these agendas weren't designed with you in mind.  Some of them have in fact caused immense suffering and distress over many centuries.  Cortesi shows us how to construct beliefs and practices that provide the same emotional and psychological support as religion without forcing us to park our common sense at the door or sally forth to smite infidels who happen to believe in a different godlike character.<br /><br />His method is to research, then summarize the major issues we must deal with to construct a meaningful life.  He's fair to all religious traditions and approaches each of life's big topics in an even-handed, pragmatic manner.  Among other things, we learn ways of coping with the fact we're a random accident in the universe, how people actually achieve mystical bliss, and what it means to be happy.  He gives practical advice on skills such as creating your own set of rituals, helping people who are grieving, and building up the psychological arsenal you'll need in order to be content.  In an appendix, he lists further readings for those who want to delve deeper into any of these questions.<br /><br />Cortesi is no Augustine, wrestling with great sins on the way to becoming a great saint.  He has modest regrets (he wishes he'd devoted more effort to being part of a community) and isn't trying to attain every grand spirtitual aspiration (for instance, he questions whether the efforts to achieve bliss, are, practically speaking, worth the results). In the end, he delivers what he promised, showing us that it's quite possible to live a meaningful, spiritually fullfilled life without surrending yourself to a religious tradition.  Cortesi has done us all a great service by writing this book, and everyone, whether secular or religious, should find something of value in its pages.w people actually achieve mystical bliss, and what it means to be happy.  He gives practical advice on skills such as creating your own set of rituals, helping people who are grieving, and building up the psychological arsenal you'll need in order to be content.  In an appendix, he lists further readings for those who want to delve deeper into any of these questions.      Cortesi is no Augustine, wrestling with great sins on the way to becoming a great saint.  He has modest regrets (he wishes he'd devoted more effort to being part of a community) and isn't trying to attain every grand spirtitual aspiration (for instance, he questions whether the efforts to achieve bliss, are, practically speaking, worth the results). In the end, he delivers what he promised, showing us that it's quite possible to live a meaningful, spiritually fullfilled life without surrending yourself to a religious tradition.  Cortesi has done us all a great service by writing this book, and everyone, whether secular or religious, should find something of value in its pages.	2005-06-19
US	51873758	RADVEEPS2ZQ72	0679642889	323374805	Evolution: The Remarkable History of a Scientific Theory (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	4	12	17	N	N	You Say You Want a Real Solution	Figuring out how we arrived at this particular biological juncture gets to the heart of what it means to be human.  The stakes in getting the explanation right have been, and continue to be, enormously important.  This gracefully written book makes you appreciate the power of evolution as an explanation of life on earth and as a way of looking at the world.  Professor Larson doesn't shirk the science; he carefully chronicles the brilliant, sometimes heroic efforts of scientists to fill in missing pieces of the biological story.  But the real purpose of his book is to show us what happens when the physical record intersects with human agendas.<br /><br />What's fascinating in Larson's account is how much political context and force of personality affected the acceptance of evolution.  After Darwin published On the Origin of the Species in 1859, T. H. Huxley's passionate and effective advocacy contributed as much to its positive reception as the cogency of Darwin's ideas.  On the negative side, intellectual mutations of evolution have been used to justify racism, cut-throat capitalism, and the forced sterilization of human beings.<br /><br />How natural selection actually worked remained an intellectual thrash for most of the nineteenth century until Mendel's genetic experiments with peas were revived from obscurity.  Evolution and heredity made a beautiful couple, and by the 1930s became the received wisdom of the neo-Darwinian synthesis. In the second half of the twentieth century, molecular biology, which decrypted the human genome, and sociobiology, which analyzes the dance of organisms on the world stage, formed an uneasy but fruitful alliance.<br /><br />Of course, there have always been those who divine the hand of a Prime Mover in the origin and progress of life on earth.  Larson documents the history of creation science and intelligent design, ongoing rear guard actions against evolution theory.  Although the vast weight of the experimental evidence is on the side of evolution, there is as yet no definitive scientific explanation for what put the first twitch of life in those very first cells at the start of life on earth (estimated by scientists to have occurred four billion years ago).  Since we can't prove how we got launched on this path, it's still conceivable that evolutionary science, rather than providing ultimate answers, is deconstructing some Prime Mover's master design.<br /><br />Creation Science got mired in biblical literalism and has been largely dismissed as a credible explanation of life on earth.  Intelligent Design is more subtle in its approach.  Without negating evolution as a partial explanation of how species evolve, ID asserts its inadequacy as a complete explanation for human existence.  For example, intelligent design posits that certain biological functions, such as blood clotting, work on an all or nothing basis.  The functionality could not have evolved one step at a time as evolution would have it. (Like a mousetrap, which cannot function if any of its parts are missing, to use an oft-cited ID analogy.)  Also, geologic eras such as the Cambrian, where an explosion of major new life forms occurred, might be proof against the type of gradual, incremental change that Darwin described.  While intelligent design advocates use paleontology and molecular biology instead of the Book of Genesis to discredit evolution, many scientists and secularists still believe that besides being bad science, intelligent design is a Trojan horse to smuggle god into American classrooms.<br /><br />The political resurgence of intelligent design in spite of the massive accumulation of scientific evidence for evolution testifies to widespread discomfort with the idea that humans are the random result of a contingent and evolving design.  According to Larson, surveys show that about 40% of the American people - and close to that percentage of scientists - prefer to put a god somewhere in the equation.  (According to arecent article in the Economist magazine, two thirds of Americans believe humans were created directly by god.)  Ascribing our existence to a Master Maker leads to other intellectual conundrums, though; for instance, why would any intelligent and all-powerful deity design in bilharzia, leukemia and infanticide?<br /><br />Darwinian evolution provides the comfort of an answer for those not inclined to theistic solutions and meets the scientific criteria of finding answers from the physical evidence without the timely intervention of a Deus Ex Machina.  To be a member in good standing of the Evolutionary Church, you have to accept the constraints of the scientific process, which embraces problems but eschews mysteries.  And you can't be anxious over the fact that we have some interesting theories but no definitive proof about how life started.  Any orthodoxy at some point requires a leap of faith.<br /><br />Larson clearly accepts the evolutionary explanation, but his thoughtful, even-handed survey will help you form your own opinion about this contentious theory of who we are and how we got here.e, two thirds of Americans believe humans were created directly by god.)  Ascribing our existence to a Master Maker leads to other intellectual conundrums, though; for instance, why would any intelligent and all-powerful deity design in bilharzia, leukemia and infanticide?      Darwinian evolution provides the comfort of an answer for those not inclined to theistic solutions and meets the scientific criteria of finding answers from the physical evidence without the timely intervention of a Deus Ex Machina.  To be a member in good standing of the Evolutionary Church, you have to accept the constraints of the scientific process, which embraces problems but eschews mysteries.  And you can't be anxious over the fact that we have some interesting theories but no definitive proof about how life started.  Any orthodoxy at some point requires a leap of faith.    Larson clearly accepts the evolutionary explanation, but his thoughtful, even-handed survey will help you form your own opinion about this contentious theory of who we are and how we got here.	2005-06-18
US	51873758	R3EQ9HDPFMND57	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Finally Lives Up to the Hype	Until I read Atonement, I thought the critical praise given to Ian McEwan's novels exceeded his actual accomplishments.  Amsterdam, which won the Booker Prize, was cynical and amusing, but slight in its aspirations.  While Enduring Love contained the finely wrought prose for which McEwan is justly praised, the novel itself seemed overdetermined, its ideas about modern relationships force-fed into the hearts and minds of the characters.  McEwan, like his contemporary Martin Amis, seemed to be a fine prose stylist capable of making acute observations about modern life, but only partly successful at grounding those observations in the lives of specific characters.  In Atonement, though, the characters are fully realized, and the work finally lives up to the critical hype.<br /><br />On a beautiful early summer day in 1935, a young English girl on the cusp of womanhood (Briony) lets her imagination overwhelm her judgement.  By the end of that day, close family ties are irreparably severed, and a promising young man (Robbie) has his prospects destroyed.  The rest of the book tracks Robbie's attempts to recapture the grace of his life before the fall, and Briony's attempts to atone for ruining his future.<br /><br />The book starts out with minutely observed tracings of the main characters' thoughts.  We feel plunged into something resembling a Virginia Woolf novel. (Later in the novel, McEwan pays sly homage to Ms Woolf.)  The languid pace picks up in the middle section with powerful scenes of English soldiers in retreat to Dunkirk during the early days of World War II.  The final section occurs almost 50 years later.  We see how Briony, now an old woman, has reconciled herself to the events she set in motion during that fateful summer day.<br /><br />The novel is ultimately about the power of imagination, how it can be used for destructive ends, but also how it can be used to heal and console.  McEwan leads us to consider whether our ability to imagine a better world that the one we actually inhabit makes the pain and turmoil of this one easier to bear.  Briony concludes that positive acts of imagination are great gifts that our writers bestow on us.  The penetrating psychological insights, pitch perfect prose, and magisterial view of human foibles and aspirations on display in Atonement are great gifts from McEwan to his readers.ly inhabit makes the pain and turmoil of this one easier to bear.  Briony concludes that positive acts of imagination are great gifts that our writers bestow on us.  The penetrating psychological insights, pitch perfect prose, and magisterial view of human foibles and aspirations on display in Atonement are great gifts from McEwan to his readers.	2005-06-02
US	51873758	R22Y1EBSA1QIQ7	1591022673	381326673	The Psychological Roots of Religious Belief: Searching for Angels and the Parent-God	Books	4	33	34	N	Y	"Turn Around, What's that Sound, Back from Where You Came"	\\"Religion doesn't work because it's true,\\" said William James, \\"but is true because it works.\\"  The reason it works, according to MD Faber, is because religious notions tap into our deepest feeling-state, which is the symbiotic relationship we had with our primary caregiver during infancy.  As he says in the middle of the book, \\"we turn to God as a child in distress turns to its mother.\\"  While he acknowledges Freud's insights about the connection between infancy and the religious impulse, he advances Freud's basic argument by highlighting the role of the primary caregiver (usually the mother) and by fruitfully linking psychology and neuroscience.<br /><br />Drawing upon such close observers of infant behavior as DW Winnicott and Margaret Mahler, Faber leads us carefully through the developmental phases of early childhood, with the goal of tying the affective states of this life period to the feelings induced by religious rituals.  Infancy is a period when we go through thousands of instances where we want something and someone provides what we need.  During the earliest phases of life, we don't distinguish our self from the caregiver; later we see our self and our caregiver as a symbiotic team, working with one purpose and one all powerful will.  We may not be \\"wired for God\\" as the famous phrase has it, but since \\"repeated patterns strengthen synaptic connections'\\" our brains are wired for asking and receiving from a caregiver who appears omnipotent to our childish eyes.<br /><br />Then, amazingly, we forget this powerful formative experience, a process labeled infantile amnesia.  (That we can't recall infant experiences is corroborated by imaging studies that demonstrate that the structures needed to form memories aren't functioning in babies.)  Prayer and religious ritual become means of getting back to a preverbal sense of primal dualism - just us and our caregiver, in complete accord.  Belief in God allows us to return to the state of bliss we had as infants, when we lived under the hallucinatory impression that an omnipotent caregiver could divine our every need and minister to our every want, just because we wished it to be so.<br /><br />Once the toddler begins to separate in earnest from the caregiver, joy in his increasing powers is mitigated by feelings that he's losing his tight connection with the caregiver.  The anxiety caused by separation from the parent can linger for a lifetime, and Faber posits the inner tussle between separation and connection as a major source of adult stress.  Religion pours balm on this stress by allowing us to be ourselves but be under the care of an all-powerful, all-knowing protector.  Other psychological aspects of early childhood get tied to religious practices.  For example, infants and children are able to evoke imaginary companions to share in their behaviors and discoveries.  As Edward Taylor says, animism - belief in unseen forces such as ghosts, souls, fairies and angels - is part of every religion in every culture in the world.<br /><br />Assuming you're open to a natural as opposed to supernatural explanation of why our brains take so readily to religious ideas, Faber's arguments are cogently presented.  There are, however, other paths along this track that beg to be explored.  For instance, while he touches on inconsistent parenting (which causes the infant to create a good mother/bad mother paradigm) he doesn't dig in to the effect of erratic or non-existent parenting on  religious impulses.  Do people who had bad infant experiences yearn more or less for God than normals?  Knowing the answer to this would be a good way of deepening Faber's thesis.  Also, Faber focuses on the connection between the religious impulse and affective states of dependency and bliss achieved during infancy.  But as the Hindus say, there are many paths to God.  How do these stonier, thornier paths - self-denial, flagellation, rational thought, physical self-sacrifice, cannibalism, voodoo - tie in to attachment theory?  Finally, religion is a social as well as personal practice - a way of separating people you can trust from people you can't, for example, or a way of organizing and motivating people to achieve specific political ends.  How does the psychological pull of group dynamics tie back to the primary affective source of religious belief?<br /><br />The pleasure one can take in Faber's well-reasoned arguments is somewhat marred by the writing style.  The main problem is an overuse of quotations, which clogs the narrative flow.  Some chapters, such as Prayer and Faith and Angelic Encounters, are so dense with quotes that the sense of an authorial voice nearly disappears altogether.  But if you can work through that, you'll find a stimulating and provocative theory: we never stop wanting that state of perfect connection with an all-powerful caregiver we imagined we had as infants; religion is the magic castle we've constructed so we can return again and again to that lost state of symbiotic bliss.Finally, religion is a social as well as personal practice - a way of separating people you can trust from people you can't, for example, or a way of organizing and motivating people to achieve specific political ends.   How does the psychological pull of group dynamics tie back to the primary affective source of religious belief?     The pleasure one can take in Faber's well-reasoned arguments is somewhat marred by the writing style.  The main problem is an overuse of quotations, which clogs the narrative flow.  Some chapters, such as Prayer and Faith and Angelic Encounters, are so dense with quotes that the sense of an authorial voice nearly disappears altogether.  But if you can work through that, you'll find a stimulating and provocative theory: we never stop wanting that state of perfect connection with an all-powerful caregiver we imagined we had as infants; religion is the magic castle we've constructed so we can return again and again to that lost state of symbiotic bliss.	2005-05-26
US	51873758	R19YB4H53HKN5Y	B0007BRY2Y	943541841	Discerning the mystery: An essay on the nature of theology	Books	4	28	28	N	Y	Joining the Head and the Heart	In her monumental survey of monotheism, A History of God, Karen Armstrong says of Discerning the Mystery, \\"Highly recommended.  A slim volume that goes to the heart of the matter.\\"<br /><br />The matter under discussion in this well-reasoned and clearly-written book is the way we search for truth.  Louth starts by examining the legacy of the Enlightenment, which biases Western civilization to accept uncritically the benefits of rational thought.  Using the arguments of Vico and Dilthey, Louth makes the case that the imaginative moral reasoning we use in the humanities has just as much validity as the type of reasoning we use in rational analysis.  If rationality is concerned with external truths that we must seek out empirically, the truths of the humanities (and, by extension, theology) are more accessible to us because all humans experience the human condition - those truths exist within us, awaiting extraction.<br /><br />He then marshals the arguments of the philosophers George Gadamer and Michael Polanyi to question the notion of scientific objectivity.  Gadamer argues that all knowledge occurs within a context of historical tradition and personal prejudices, and that the scientific method is but one way of decoding reality.  Polanyi sees scientific observation as involving a \\"tacit dimension\\" which includes the assumptions - often unacknowledged - of the observer.  This tacit dimension creates a subjective viewpoint that affects the outcome of the observation.  Thus the pervasive belief in the modern scientific method as the most effective and legitimate way of discovering truth rests on a shaky foundation: the biased observer.<br /><br />Louth makes an important distinction between solving problems and grappling with mysteries.  The skill of good science is to pose questions in ways that make answers possible, which is to effectively reduce the complexities of the world to problems that can be solved.  The problem-solving approach has added immeasurably to our knowledge and given us means to communicate and pass on our discoveries.  But, he asserts, many interactions in the realms of philosophy, art, and religion - and just living in the world - cannot be reduced to problems; attempting to shoehorn all of life's experiences into a scientific framework can take us down false and constraining paths.  What Louth is after is a method for dealing with the mysteries of existence that is rigorous but not reductive.<br /><br />The central mystery Louth is trying to discern is the mystery at the heart of the Christian experience, which is how and why a god chose to become a man.  If you're not interested in unraveling Christian theology, use Louth's insights on this mystery: if it turns out that we're simply random genetic accidents instantiated for an indeterminate time before being transmuted into decaying organic matter, what purpose or nobility can possibly exist in the human condition?<br /><br />Louth proposes that the most fruitful process for dealing with the mysteries of the human condition is to first accept them them as mysteries, without trying to reduce them to problems that can be solved.  He also argures that it's important to understand how how others have grappled with these mysteries.  You need a sense of the tradition you stand on if you aspire to go higher yourself.  Whether it's poetry, philosophy or theology you're using as your stepladder, what makes meaning is the process of active engagement between the author and the reader through the medium of the text.  Actively engaging with your tradition allows you to come to grips with it in a personally meaningful way, and to use it as the basis for moral action in your life.<br /><br />Ultimately, Louth is grappling with faith.  To him, embracing the mystery of god in Christ and accepting it as a mystery is the precondition for truly understanding the human condition.  Atheists and rationalists embrace the idea that the human record will be decoded once we gaingreater insight into the physical workings of the world, which is a leap of faith in its own right.  In either case, you're probably well-advised to not try and force all of the complexities of human existence through the narrow passages of biblical exegesis or the scientific method.  Whichever aspect of the mystery you embrace, faith becomes the bridge that allows us to pass back and forth between the rational and intuitive parts of our being.  The good news, as Louth so eloquently points out, is that accepting the essential mystery of our life on earth doesn't mean you can't engage with it.  On the contrary, only by accepting it can you engage it fully with your head and your heart.f the world, which is a leap of faith in its own right.  In either case, you're probably well-advised to not try and force all of the complexities of human existence through the narrow passages of biblical exegesis or the scientific method.  Whichever aspect of the mystery you embrace, faith becomes the bridge that allows us to pass back and forth between the rational and intuitive parts of our being.  The good news, as Louth so eloquently points out, is that accepting the essential mystery of our life on earth doesn't mean you can't engage with it.  On the contrary, only by accepting it can you engage it fully with your head and your heart.	2005-05-06
US	51873758	RKRRMUVSVDH3C	0375406972	667466602	Snow	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Sometimes a Great Novel	The good parts of Snow are so good they leave you unprepared for how bad the bad parts can be.<br /><br />The novel is set up as a kind of Turkish Our Town.  The narrator, Orhan, is a friend of the poet Ka, a Turkish expatriate who visits the small border town of Kars, mainly to reconnect with Ipek, a women he was infatuated with during his student days.  He also wangles a journalism assignment to cover the municipal elections and investigate the suicides of Muslim girls forced to take off their head scarves while attending school.  Once in Kars, Ka gets caught up in the political wrangling between the secularists who see Turkey as a modern western nation and the Muslim fundamentalists who have different ideas.  Ka's love for Ipek gets equally tangled between her romantic history and his inability to embrace happiness.<br /><br />In many ways the pleasures of this novel are old-fashioned.  Pamuk appears to believe in the power of ideas, and the power of words to affect social change.  He believes that his readers are willing to do the work that mining a first rate novel requires.  By contrast, we see how skittish contemporary American novelists have become, how unsure of their audience and their role as novelist, beyond being an entertainer.<br /><br />Ka has the poet's gift for particularity.  We see all of the town's political factions, Kurds, Islamists, secularists, communists, first as people, then as ideologies.  This is no small accomplishment in our ideological age.  The town itself becomes a character in the drama, and it is skillfully, sometimes beautifully rendered.<br /><br />The major problem with the novel is its pacing.  The forward momentum just stops in the middle of the book, and the plot sits there like a boa lazily digesting a rat.  Then, finally, the story gathers steam again for the finish.  Also, Ka is a very ambiguous fellow.  He never quite commits to any of the situations swirling around him.  This can either be seen as a noble response to partisan passions (the \\"best lack all conviction\\" as Yeats says) or as moral weakness.  This is too big an issue, and we have invested too much effort following Ka's adventures, for Pamuk to leave this question so completely up in the air.<br /><br />This is almost a great novel.  It has sweep, depth, humor, and brings us face to face with life in all its complexity and ambiguity.  It's worth reading; just be prepared for some bumpy patches.e response to partisan passions (the \\"best lack all conviction\\" as Yeats says) or as moral weakness.  This is too big an issue, and we have invested too much effort following Ka's adventures, for Pamuk to leave this question so completely up in the air. <br /> <br />This is almost a great novel.  It has sweep, depth, humor, and brings us face to face with life in all its complexity and ambiguity.  It's worth reading; just be prepared for some bumpy patches. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-23
US	51873758	RVSI2S5480MWE	015679201X	821855727	The Sacred and The Profane: The Nature of Religion	Books	5	33	35	N	Y	Means of Escape	This little book had a big impact on students of religious history and comparative religion, and paved the way for scientists attempting to deconstruct homo religiosus.  Eliade jumps off from Rudolph Otto's Idea of the Holy, a pioneering work of comparative religion that characterized non-rational religious states experienced universally across world cultures.  Eliade extends the comparative concept by describing how sacred impulses manifest themselves in space, time, nature, and human society, contrasting the religious viewpoint with that of the non-religious or profane person.<br /><br />In general, Eliade sees religious man using the sacred as a way of orienting himself in the world and transcending the limitations of the individual life lived in a specific time and place.  Non-religious people abjure the tools and consolations of religion, but since they are descended from religious cultures, much of their thinking and practice ends up being bastardized forms of religion anyway.<br /><br />In the first chapter,\\"Sacred Space and Making the World Sacred,\\" Eliade describes an Australian Aboriginal tribe, the Achilpa, who believe that their god Numbakula fashioned a sacred pole from the trunk of a gum tree and used it to climb into the sky.  The Achilpa carry a replica of this sacred pole with them as they migrate through the desert to new sources of food and water.  This pole literally becomes the center of their universe, and if this pole breaks, their world disintegrates.  Two anthropologists reported seeing the sacred pole break.  The tribe wandered aimlessly for a while, then lay down on the ground and waited for death to overtake them.<br /><br />Sacred spaces become a way of organizing against primordial chaos, and it's only within this sacred space that religious man has a real existence.  Whether it's a pole from a gum tree or Chartres Cathedral, the general principle is the same.  Even non-religious people have special places that help orient them in time and space, such as the house they were born in, their elementary school, or the place where they first met their spouse.<br /><br />Sacred time operates the same way:  it focuses and orients human activity, and becomes a repeatable way of stepping out of chronological time.  Aborigines, for example practice ceremonies that summon the gods to reveal their presence in the here and now.  Aborigines also recreate their origin myths by traveling to the places where the gods sprung out of the ground.  Entering into sacred time, Eliade says, is an attempt to return to an \\"eternal, mythical present.\\" If you're not religious, you might turn to drugs, or sex, or work or hobbies - anything that allows you to escape from the death sentence of historical time.<br /><br />To talk about the sacred in nature, Eliade invents the useful concept of hierophany, which is the revelation of the sacred through something else, anything from a stone or a tree up through a holy person or a god.  For religious man, nature expresses something that transcends itself - a stone can represent absolute existence, the moon represents the cycle of birth, death and resurrection.  The profane person needs nature too.  Even with god out of the picture, nature can still symbolize beauty or harmony, or the perfect resting place - temporary stays against chaos and decay.  For certain irreligious people, art can be used in a hierophanic manner to represent an eternal order that exists out of time (Keats' poem, Ode to a Grecian Urn is a lovely expression of this thought).<br /><br />Eliade ends by taking us on a tour of various religious rituals.  Initiation rites allow the old self to die and a new self to be reborn.  Religious practices also ease the trauma of dying because you're only dying to your profane existence in this world, which to the believer isn't the real world anyway.  The \\"real\\" world is the return to the timeless present created by the gods back in the days before human history.  Eliade asserts that access to the spiritual life always entails death to the profane condition followed by a new birth.  The Christian myth of Jesus rising from his tomb is but one manifestation of a universal human myth.<br /><br />Religious or not, everybody wants at least temporary relief from primordial chaos, the burdens of individual consciousness and the inevitability of death.  Since we're all pinned down in time and space by language, culture, temperament and genetic inheritance, we all need rituals that allow us to rise up and glimpse eternal order, harmony and peace.  Eliade's great contribution is to demonstrate how the particular manifestations of religion, whether it's the Achilpa or the Methodists, spring from universal human needs.rts that access to the spiritual life always entails death to the profane condition followed by a new birth.  The Christian myth of Jesus rising from his tomb is but one manifestation of a universal human myth.<br /><br />Religious or not, everybody wants at least temporary relief from primordial chaos, the burdens of individual consciousness and the inevitability of death.  Since we're all pinned down in time and space by language, culture, temperament and genetic inheritance, we all need rituals that allow us to rise up and glimpse eternal order, harmony and peace.  Eliade's great contribution is to demonstrate how the particular manifestations of religion, whether it's the Achilpa or the Methodists, spring from universal human needs.	2005-04-19
US	51873758	R3L5Q9BAAN0FSI	0465006965	262036966	Religion Explained: The Evolutionary Origins of Religious Thought	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Great Expectations	The subtitle of this book, \\"The Evolutionary Origins of Religious Thought\\" is a good summary of its central premise: humans gravitate towards religion because religious activity triggers mental inference systems that we've built up over millions of years spent foraging for food in small nomadic groups.<br /><br />Boyer brilliantly synthesizes findings in anthropology, evolutionary psychology, sociology, archaeology, biology and neuroscience to flesh out his thesis.  He's assembled a lucid and compelling argument that religion isn't something \\"out there\\" that comes down to us from on high; it originates within us because of the way our brains and our societies are organized.<br /><br />For example, why do almost all cultures maintain the concept of invisible spirits that affect human activity?  As part of our evolutionary survival equipment, Boyer says, we have a strong ability to detect the presence of predators.  This predator detection system triggers a lot of false positives - leaves rustling in the wind, tree branches tapping on windows - because there's little negative consequence for a false perception of danger and a lot of negative consequence for not sensing a real lion lurking in the bush.  The mental predilection to sense something that's not there resonates quite well with the notion of invisible spirits who inhabit our world.<br /><br />Since we couldn't succeed as hunters without cooperating with other members of the tribe, we have highly evolved social mechanisms.  Our social instincts also prop up our religious practices.  For instance, all humans, (except autistic ones) have the capacity to imagine what other people are thinking and doing.  We use this capacity to figure out how to operate successfully in groups.  It's an easy leap from there to imagining a supernatural agent who knows what we're thinking and doing.  Another huge social problem is figuring out who can be trusted.  When the mastodon's charging, you have to be sure the guy with the spear behind you won't cut and run.  Someone who sacrifices to the same god and has undergone the same initiation and purification rituals as you have is generally deemed to be more trustworthy that someone with a completely different belief system.<br /><br />Boyer uses the same toolkit to examine questions of fundamentalism and religious orthodoxy.  He posits that fundamentalist fanatics may kill non-believers more as a way of keeping their own believers in line (by making clear the high cost of unbelief) than out of hatred for the infidel.  Also, there's a privileged class of shamans and priests that makes a comfortable living brokering transactions between humans and the supernatural agents.  Since it's relatively easy for people to break away to worship another supernatural agent, religious middlemen work hard to create a belief in the negative consequences of leaving the one true religion (in marketing speak, this is known as creating a high switching cost).  Which helps explain why Christianity, Islam and Judaism have worked so hard to establish the idea that their god is the only god.  And concepts such as excommunication and hell fit nicely with our social notions about the terrible consequences of being ostracized from the very group (the other food foragers in our tribe) we depend upon for our survival.<br /><br />To defuse the emotion surrounding monotheistic religious dogma, Boyer uses many examples from the belief systems of primitive tribes such as the Fang and Kwaio.  While we may shake our heads at tales of flying witches with special internal organs, is the tale of the one god who is actually three gods and gets inside you when you eat a bread wafer any less incredible?  What matters, Boyer says, are not the specific beliefs but the general disposition to invent spirits who look and act an awful lot like humans.  The kind of brain you possess is an enormous influence on the kind of god you create.  Boyer quotes Voltaire:  \\"Were cockroaches to have anotion of God, they would probably imagine him as a very big and powerful cockroach.\\"<br /><br />Boyer has done a brilliant job of explaining the general human bias toward religious belief.  What he freely admits not knowing is how to predict for individual spirituality: why does this particular individual believe while that particular individual doesn't?  Why do some people have a gift for connecting with the unseen spirit world and others don't?  The scientists who work on those questions will owe a debt to Pascal Boyer for the trailblazing work he's done in this well-reasoned and clearly written book.gine him as a very big and powerful cockroach.\\"    Boyer has done a brilliant job of explaining the general human bias toward religious belief.  What he freely admits not knowing is how to predict for individual spirituality: why does this particular individual believe while that particular individual doesn't?  Why do some people have a gift for connecting with the unseen spirit world and others don't?  The scientists who work on those questions will owe a debt to Pascal Boyer for the trailblazing work he's done in this well-reasoned and clearly written book.	2005-04-01
US	51873758	R1JR0P6YBAZ9D2	1402714424	58251213	Hippie	Books	4	51	55	N	N	Which Side Were You On?	Hippie is a glossy coffee table book covering the rise and demise of the counterculture during the years from 1965 to 1971.  For those who lived through the era, the full-page photos are bound to get some synapses firing (presumably bypassing all those drug-damaged neural junctions).  This is essentially a People magazine version of the sixties: lots of breathless headlines and celebrity photos.  Writer Barry Miles has dug up some good music gossip, including not very flattering John Lennon anecdotes.<br /><br />Some serious issues of the era get raised - Vietnam, civil rights, woman's liberation, gay rights - but in a, well, glossy coffee-table-book way.  The editorial difficulty in putting together a book of this sort is deciding whether you're celebrating sex, drugs and rock and roll or chronicling a culture in crisis.<br /><br />The young people in America rose up in mass revulsion against Jell-O molds and tract homes with bomb shelters in the back yard.  They hit the road looking for something more optimistic and more fun.  Enormous energy went in to trying to alter or bring down the dominant culture.  In the civil rights and antiwar movements, people were literally putting their lives on the line.  People's \\"lifestyle choices,\\" as we now call them, had profound repercussions, personally and politically, in ways unimaginable to young people today (soldiers in Iraq excepted).  Similar upheavals were happening in Europe, especially France, where the student - worker alliance only dreamed of in the US actually came to pass in the heady spring of 68.<br /><br />You can get a good debate going by asking which specific event signified the end of the sixties in America.  Was it Kent State, where the Ohio National Guard gunned down four student protesters? Altamont, where the peace and love culture broke down on its own without any outside interference? The breakup of the Beatles? Or, even earlier, Nixon's election in 68, which demonstrated the difficulty of changing hearts and minds in America?  Barry Miles covers them all here, so you can make up your own mind.<br /><br />But America has a genius for absorbing new ideas into its vast, spongy middle.  Hippie notions of casual sex, recreational drug use, and quirky personal style seeped into suburban living rooms, stripped of any cultural or political critique.  In the 1970s, the revolution was not only televised, but merchandised, and the momentum had for sure crested and started to recede.  On the plus side, protests at the Miss America pageant led by a tortuous route to housewives in Sioux Falls filling cubicles at insurance and credit card companies.  African Americans got access to academia and began moving up the economic ladder.  George W. Bush notwithstanding, we work harder to prevent industries from poisoning our air and water.<br /><br />But there was a time, my children, when hope hung in the air, and personal liberation was a radiant promise.  All you had to do was stare out at the future with the right kind of eyes.  Clearly the old structures would topple, and gleaming new edifices of our own making would rise to replace them.  The apocalyptic change didn't happen, but whether you were partying or protesting, it was a grand time to be alive.  Hippie, for all its slickness, is a great memory jogger for those who participated and not a bad introduction for those who missed out on the Age of Aquarius.of changing hearts and minds in America?  Barry Miles covers them all here, so you can make up your own mind. <br /> <br />But America has a genius for absorbing new ideas into its vast, spongy middle.  Hippie notions of casual sex, recreational drug use, and quirky personal style seeped into suburban living rooms, stripped of any cultural or political critique.  In the 1970s, the revolution was not only televised, but merchandised, and the momentum had for sure crested and started to recede.  On the plus side, protests at the Miss America pageant led by a tortuous route to housewives in Sioux Falls filling cubicles at insurance and credit card companies.  African Americans got access to academia and began moving up the economic ladder.  George W. Bush notwithstanding, we work harder to prevent industries from poisoning our air and water.   <br /> <br />But there was a time, my children, when hope hung in the air, and personal liberation was a radiant promise.  All you had to do was stare out at the future with the right kind of eyes.  Clearly the old structures would topple, and gleaming new edifices of our own making would rise to replace them.  The apocalyptic change didn't happen, but whether you were partying or protesting, it was a grand time to be alive.  Hippie, for all its slickness, is a great memory jogger for those who participated and not a bad introduction for those who missed out on the Age of Aquarius.   <br /> <br />   <br /> <br />	2005-03-31
US	51873758	R1HFZ63WWWHUV1	0140185399	972711653	A Burnt-Out Case (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	The Maker's Heavy Hand	Graham Greene wrote novels of ideas.  In the best of his books, such as The Power and the Glory and The Quiet American, the ideas evolve out of the acts of characters reacting to believable situations.  When the ideas and the actions aren't so seamlessly fused, the books, while still worth reading, feel more schematic.  This, unfortunately, is the case with A Burnt-Out Case.<br /><br />Querry is an architect who has become world-renowned for designing churches and other religious structures.  We first see him on a boat churning its way up a muddy river in the middle of Africa.  Its last stop is a leper colony run by priests and nuns, and here Querry disembarks.  He's trying to flee to a place where he can be alone with his own disease, which is an inability to feel normal human emotion.  But even in the bush, he can't outrun his fame.  The priests and colonists he encounters keep ascribing holy motives to him, despite all his protests than he's beyond love of god, career, or other humans.<br /><br />In another Greene novel, The Heart of the Matter, Scobie is a Catholic policeman in colonial Africa troubled by issues of faith.  In his review of the book, George Orwell complained about the incompatible parts of Scobie's character.  If  Scobie was as devoted a Catholic as Greene made him out to be, he wouldn't have committed such big sins against his faith.  If he was truly a career police officer, he wouldn't have been such an unworldly Catholic.  Querry's character is similarly dichotomous.  If he's as burnt-out as he claims to be, he wouldn't get so involved with the leprosarium, its doctor, (Colin), and Marie Rycker the young wife of a colonist who deeply admires Querry.  If he's as compassionate as he appears to be, he can't be as emotionally dead as Greene wants us to believe he is.<br /><br />The ending of the book plays out the consequences of Querry's kindness to Rycker's wife.  It feels forced; a character as complex as Querry deserves a more complex d&eacute;nouement.<br /><br />Greene was one of the twentieth century's greatest writers.  The craft and penetrating intellect he brought to everything he wrote make this book worth reading.  Its portrayal of the priests is diverting, especially their attempts to use Querry for their own political purposes.  And Colin, the atheistic doctor who befriends Querry, is a character we care about.  But we see too clearly the heavy hand of the puppet master, which makes A Burnt-Out Case a second tier novel from a top-tier novelist.nouement.   <br /> <br />Greene was one of the twentieth century's greatest writers.  The craft and penetrating intellect he brought to everything he wrote make this book worth reading.  Its portrayal of the priests is diverting, especially their attempts to use Querry for their own political purposes.  And Colin, the atheistic doctor who befriends Querry, is a character we care about.  But we see too clearly the heavy hand of the puppet master, which makes A Burnt-Out Case a second tier novel from a top-tier novelist. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-30
US	51873758	R1K4CJIQ1G7XB5	0399152407	412179057	Cold Service (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Forever Wilt Thou Love, And She Be Fair	Spencer, his sidekick Hawk, and Susan Silverman, Spencer's faerie Queen, have been entertaining us now for three decades.  Robert Parker unspools his Spencer plots so effortlessly that it's easy to overlook the superior craftsmanship he brings to the series.  As a writer, Parker is at least the equal of Elmore Leonard.<br /><br />In this installment, Hawk has been shot in the back by Ukranian thugs who are trying to muscle in on the black rackets in Boston.  Hawk wants revenge, not just to restore his street cred, but to repair his damaged sense of self.  Even though Spencer is loathe to gun down a passel of unknown Ukranians, he's obliged to help Hawk because the code is the code and a man must do what a man must do.<br /><br />While Hawk is rehabbing body and mind, his new girlfriend, a surgeon at Mass General, feels shut out from the inner workings of Hawk's emotional life.  Hawk dispatches Spencer to explain the essence of Hawkness to the poor woman.  Spencer's explanation boils down to this:  Hawk is Hawk and he's not changing, so love him the way he is or hit the pavement.<br /><br />The sensitive side of our heroes having been dealt with, the gunplay can start.  The revenge plot involves some clever scheming by Hawk and Spencer along with an equally large dose of hanging around eating donuts and waiting to see what develops.  Many familiar faces from the series' stalwart supporting cast are pulled in:  Quirk and Belsen, the Boston cops, Tony Marcus, the black mob boss, Vinnie Morris and his gun for hire - even the Grey Man, the shooter who dropped Spencer during a particularly dark patch in our hero's career.  The drama builds, as it usually does with Parker, to a satisfying catharsis, with lots of wisecracks along the way.<br /><br />Since Spencer's had such a long run, Parker faces the challenge of any successful series writer, which is ageing up his hero.  This needs work.  Spencer by now should be collecting social security, which is long in the tooth for a strong arm man, even one with Spencer's boyish sensibility.  Susan, his raven-haired princess, doesn't age either: no reports of menopausal hot flashes, no arthritis of the knee joints from pounding up stadium steps for all those years in order to stay lissome.  (We can only aspire to the libido both these seniors have managed to maintain).<br /><br />While Parker casts a sharp reporter's eye on the changes Boston has undergone over the past thirty years, Spencer, Susan and Hawk seem stuck in some new and indeterminate life stage: high functioning mature adult.  Since most of Parker's baby boomer readers aspire to the same state, he should be assured of a large and credulous audience for as long as he chooses to continue the series.Spencer's boyish sensibility.  Susan, his raven-haired princess, doesn't age either: no reports of menopausal hot flashes, no arthritis of the knee joints from pounding up stadium steps for all those years in order to stay lissome.  (We can only aspire to the libido both these seniors have managed to maintain).    While Parker casts a sharp reporter's eye on the changes Boston has undergone over the past thirty years, Spencer, Susan and Hawk seem stuck in some new and indeterminate life stage: high functioning mature adult.  Since most of Parker's baby boomer readers aspire to the same state, he should be assured of a large and credulous audience for as long as he chooses to continue the series.	2005-03-29
US	51873758	R3CCSU7COU4L8A	0195002105	394744637	The Idea of the Holy	Books	5	79	84	N	Y	Knocked Off Your Horse	This book, first published in 1917, is rightly regarded as a classic of religious philosophy.<br /><br />Otto's great contribution to Christianity was to assert the importance of a non-rational approach to the divine.  Christianity, which is the most dogmatic and moralistic of the major world religions, needed the corrective.  Otto created the word \\"numinous\\" to stand for the sense of a divine presence that operates beyond rational understanding.  He also coined the term \\"mysterium tremendum\\" to connote the inchoate sense of awe and dread that humans feel in the presence of the divine.  To him, both of these ideas were essential to a full expression of the religious spirit.<br /><br />One reaction to this book over the years goes something like this:  either you've been knocked off your horse like St Paul, in which case you already have a direct experience of the numinous, or you haven't.  Why bother to analyze something that by its very nature can't be put into words?  Here Otto makes a subtle but crucial distinction.  He's not talking about a numinous feeling, but about a feeling of the numinous.  In other words, the numinous exists out there, not inside us, so we can approach it as an object to be observed and, at least by analogy to the sensations it excites with us, described.<br /><br />Otto didn't reject the rational, though.  Without rationality, he says, we can't have belief, only feelings.  In his view of religion, the rational and non-rational interpenetrate each other like the warp and woof of a fabric, which can't be separated without destroying the very garment it makes.  He points out several times that fully understanding the non-rational conception of god deepens our rational religious ideas.<br /><br />Otto was a Christian, and believed deeply in the superiority of Christianity as the highest synthesis of the rational and moral with a primal sense of awe.  (Buddhists might differ.)  Fortunately for his reputation as a religious philosopher he was much more than a Christian apologist: he was a close observer of human behavior and of religious practices around the world.  If Otto had been born seventy five years later, he might have been Joseph Campbell.  He traveled widely, and had a deep knowledge and appreciation of Asian, Arabic and Greek religious thought.  He anticipated Campbell by demonstrating that a sense of spiritual awe and mystery is universal to all religions.<br /><br />In his observations of how mankind divines the presence of the holy, Otto realized the importance of predispositions - a person must be both receptive to divine presence and capable of recognizing when it appears.  In this he anticipates neural Darwinism, which also talks about our predisposition toward certain aspects of reality.  For instance, we have evolved an ability to recognize sound patterns.  This isn't music, but it allows us to hear a song and store it as such in our brain.  Similarly, we are capable of conceiving of an overarching force that exists beyond our selves, and are capable of recognizing manifestations of it.  This isn't religion, but it's the precursor to any truly religious feeling.<br /><br />This book strikes sparks in almost every chapter, even the ones settling obscure doctrinal scores.  It deserves the high regard in which it's held because Rudolf Otto is a remarkably good guide to the ineffable.er he was much more than a Christian apologist: he was a close observer of human behavior and of religious practices around the world.  If Otto had been born seventy five years later, he might have been Joseph Campbell.  He traveled widely, and had a deep knowledge and appreciation of Asian, Arabic and Greek religious thought.  He anticipated Campbell by demonstrating that a sense of spiritual awe and mystery is universal to all religions. <br /> <br />In his observations of how mankind divines the presence of the holy, Otto realized the importance of predispositions - a person must be both receptive to divine presence and capable of recognizing when it appears.  In this he anticipates neural Darwinism, which also talks about our predisposition toward certain aspects of reality.  For instance, we have evolved an ability to recognize sound patterns.  This isn't music, but it allows us to hear a song and store it as such in our brain.  Similarly, we are capable of conceiving of an overarching force that exists beyond our selves, and are capable of recognizing manifestations of it.  This isn't religion, but it's the precursor to any truly religious feeling. <br /> <br />This book strikes sparks in almost every chapter, even the ones settling obscure doctrinal scores.  It deserves the high regard in which it's held because Rudolf Otto is a remarkably good guide to the ineffable. <br />	2005-03-22
US	51873758	R2V4HPBZPERG66	1594200203	809431414	The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Don't Mourn, Organize	The central premise of The Right Nation is that the current Republican ascendence is no accident of electoral politics but part of a larger historical trend.  The authors foresee an America that will continue to be more culturally conservative than its European allies and ever more unilateral in its dealings with the rest of the world.<br /><br />The two British authors report on the US scene for the Economist magazine and they come across as cleared-eyed, disinterested observers of American culture.  If they don't worship America, they seem at least bemused by it, and willing to grant us our good points.  They back up their opinions with lots of facts and a solid understanding of American history.  The book is easy to read, written in the same breezy and knowledgeable style you'll find in the Economist.<br /><br />Seen from the European perspective, Americans appear both more religious and more heartless than other nations.  Many more Americans than Europeans go to church on a regular basis.  But Americans are far more willing to let the poor and ill fend for themselves, and our rabid support of the death penalty seems barbaric to almost every other Christian nation.  Since America now spends far more on military technology than the rest of the world, we should only get more tone deaf regarding multilateral foreign policy initiatives: with God on our side and more guns than anyone else, will we really care what the French think?<br /><br />Like diligent anthropologists, the authors track down the tribal structures of American conservatism.  From think tanks and foundations that formulate new policy initiatives, to the media outlets that publicize them, down to the foot soldiers out in the sun-kissed suburban precincts, conservative Republicans have assembled a disciplined, well-run political organization.  Even though this book was written before the 2004 election, its insights about the Republican machine were amply borne out by the way Republican partisans out-thought, out-worked, and out-organized their Democratic opponents.<br /><br />Part of the Republican rise can be attributed to demographic trends.  The South defected to the Republicans after Democrats passed the Civil Rights Act in the sixties.  The new exurban communities of the West have always been more receptive to the Republican message.  Blue collar workers in the Midwest defected to the Republicans over cultural issues, even to the point of voting against their economic self interests.  This grouping of Americans, combined with the rural Midwest and West, has enough mass under the American electoral system to outweigh the votes of urban liberals on both coasts.<br /><br />As the authors repeatedly point out, liberals no longer set the intellectual agenda in America.  Instead they react to conservative ideas on the economy, the military, the role of religion in American life and how big the federal government should be.  But if Republicans are now the party of new ideas, many of these ideas are contradictory.  This is a political party that talks about getting government off the backs of the people while racking up record deficits, assaulting basic civil rights and force feeding right wing religious values into the political sphere.  The authors wonder whether the Republican Party might split along the fault lines of its competing interest groups:  it takes a mighty big tent to encompass grizzled libertarians in the Idaho hills, Arnold Schwarzenegger and right wing evangelicals of the John Ashcroft ilk.<br /><br />One of the book's more striking insights comes near the end, when the authors compare Democrat Nancy Pelosi's San Francisco congressional district with Republican Dennis Hastert's Illinois district.  Pelosi's domain comes across as more class-conscious, politically gridlocked and disorderly than Hastert's.  Despite the many charms of San Francisco, \\"Hastertland\\" - egalitarian, pro-growth, religious and orderly - seems to be where most Americans wouldchoose to live.  Republicans are more successful than Democrats because their message better resonates with the cultural aspirations of the American people - we seem to want a government that allows us to get ahead, and then protects us from people who resemble us before we got respectable.<br /><br />If you're a conservative Republican, you already know what's in this book - and you'll feel proud of what you've managed to accomplish since the Goldwater debacle of 1964.  If you're on the other side, the authors have given you a wake up call - you're beginning to look a lot like those 1960s Republicans: outflanked, outmoded and out of touch.ul than Democrats because their message better resonates with the cultural aspirations of the American people - we seem to want a government that allows us to get ahead, and then protects us from people who resemble us before we got respectable.      If you're a conservative Republican, you already know what's in this book - and you'll feel proud of what you've managed to accomplish since the Goldwater debacle of 1964.  If you're on the other side, the authors have given you a wake up call - you're beginning to look a lot like those 1960s Republicans: outflanked, outmoded and out of touch.	2005-03-19
US	51873758	R19LXHQO9LW6JX	0140184953	459703484	The End of the Affair (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Thin Line between Love and Hate	The End of the Affair is the most autobiographical of Greene's major novels.  In it, he exhumes the emotions of a fiery sexual passion, apparently based on his own affair with Catherine Walston, to whom he dedicates the novel.  Greene converted to Catholicism as a young man, and he also uses this novel to illuminate the difficult path a seeker must take to arrive at belief in the Roman Catholic god.<br /><br />The plot is convoluted, and at times barely credible.  The novelist Maurice Bendrix had a torrid affair with Sarah Miles, the wife of a dull civil servant, which Sarah broke off abruptly and without explanation.  The novel opens a few years later, when Bendrix bumps into Sarah's husband, Henry.  Henry, unaware of his wife's affair with Bendrix, confides that he's worried about Sarah's mysterious comings and goings, and is thinking of hiring a detective to follow her.  Henry abandons the idea, but Bendrix is still consumed with jealousy and wants to know who has replaced him in Sarah's affections.  He hires the detective on his own.  Over the course of the investigation, Bendrix learns why Sarah left him, who Sarah is now seeing, and that he hasn't been displaced by another man after all.  Bendrix must decide how to deal with what he's learned about Sarah, and what to do about his reawakened feelings for her.<br /><br />Greene spares us no instance of the anger, pettiness, and spitefulness of Bendrix' possessive love.  Indeed, we see little that's life-enhancing in this affair, unless you count the fever of desire that hurls Bendrix out of the confines of his own consciousness or the brief spikes of bliss during snatched moments of sex.  Bendrix discovers, as many have before him, that love and hate come from the same source; once he's fallen into the well of strong emotions, he has trouble figuring out how to swim back up to the light.<br /><br />Both Sarah and Bendrix are reaching for something transcendent.  Bendrix believes he'll find it in the relationship with Sarah, if only they can love each other perfectly enough.  Sarah comes to believe that what she's seeking lies beyond the flesh.  The emotions unleashed by her physical love for Maurice enable her to apprehend the \\"aweful mystery\\" of divine love.  She resists at first, then gives over to god.  Bendrix is a harder case.  He starts out dismissing even the idea of god as a childish legend.  By the end of the book, he's having heated arguments with this god in whom he doesn't believe.<br /><br />Greene's justification for Sarah's turn towards religious faith seems to be that human love, compassion and agency are inadequate to the task of relieving human suffering.  Once we reach the end of human resources, god is the only answer left.  He's too good a novelist to get overly didactic, and too keen an intellect not to have doubts about the rigid, dour dogma of his adopted Catholicism.  This interplay between doubt and faith gives The End of the Affair its tensile strength.  That and his emotionally courageous depiction of passionate love allow this novel to transcend its post World War II milieu, and explain why it continues to snare successive generations of readers.t in the relationship with Sarah, if only they can love each other perfectly enough.  Sarah comes to believe that what she's seeking lies beyond the flesh.  The emotions unleashed by her physical love for Maurice enable her to apprehend the \\"aweful mystery\\" of divine love.  She resists at first, then gives over to god.  Bendrix is a harder case.  He starts out dismissing even the idea of god as a childish legend.  By the end of the book, he's having heated arguments with this god in whom he doesn't believe. <br /> <br />Greene's justification for Sarah's turn towards religious faith seems to be that human love, compassion and agency are inadequate to the task of relieving human suffering.  Once we reach the end of human resources, god is the only answer left.  He's too good a novelist to get overly didactic, and too keen an intellect not to have doubts about the rigid, dour dogma of his adopted Catholicism.  This interplay between doubt and faith gives The End of the Affair its tensile strength.  That and his emotionally courageous depiction of passionate love allow this novel to transcend its post World War II milieu, and explain why it continues to snare successive generations of readers.  <br />	2005-03-07
US	51873758	RYTQZX5TC4KMJ	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Mono - mania	Religion \\"seems to be something we have always done\\" writes Karen Armstrong in the introduction to her monumental survey of monotheism, A History of God.  Tracing the roots and shoots of Judaism, Christianity and Islam over four millennia, she shows us that we end up asking the same questions across eras and cultures:  Can I know god directly or only through his emanations?  Is he inside me or up there in the sky?  Is the best way to reach him through the head or the heart?<br /><br />These days, much of our exposure to the major monotheistic religions is through their extreme actors: pederast priests, fanatic West Bank settlers, suicide bombers, demagogic leaders of murderous ethnic cleansing campaigns.  One of the revelations of this book is how subtle, flexible and tolerant Judaism, Islam and Greek Orthodox Christianity have been over the centuries.  Their major thinkers tried to reach god through rational proofs or through mystical intuitions; in either case the religions stayed open to discovering new spins on the Big Truths.<br /><br />Although Armstrong is remarkably even-handed in laying out the doctrinal evolution of the three major monotheistic religions, it's apparent that Western European Christians got the short end of the theological stick.  Instead of the emotional subtleties and sense of joy one can derive from the mystical traditions of, say, the Sufism of Abu Hamid al Ghazzali or the Kabbalistic system of Isaac Luria, the churches of Christ got the tortured dogma of Martin Luther or the physical torture of Torquemada.  As Armstrong states, \\"Instead of allowing their so-called deviants to go private, Western Christians simply persecuted them and attempted to wipe out nonconformists.  In Islamdom, esoteric thinkers usually died in their beds.\\"<br /><br />If the book has a flaw, it's the sheer volume of research and detail.  At times you feel like you're drinking from a fire hose.  (Was it Al Junayd, al Hallaj, Ibn Sina or Al Ghallazi whose sense of union with god, called fana, was considered blasphemous during the tenth - or was it the eleventh? - century?)  Mired in obscure doctrinal disputes, the mystics and philosophers coming at us fast and furious, it's easy to lose track of the big picture.<br /><br />Not that Armstrong doesn't step back to lay out some big ideas:  monotheism has survived through the centuries because it has evolved as cultures have changed; when god becomes too remote or scary, some prophet comes along to make him more human-like and accessible; approaching god through our emotions seems to satisfy an innate need to surrender our selves to a union with something grander than we are.<br /><br />After several thousand years of batting the issue around, present-day monotheists seem to be migrating towards the extreme positions.  The secularists believe we've outgrown the idea of god, and turn to science as the source of answers to \\"that which is not yet known.\\"  The fundamentalists, according to Armstrong, are ahistorical, more concerned with the literal interpretation of ancient texts than finding a god who works in these times.  Perhaps Yaweh, Allah and Jesus will go the way of Baal, Anat, Ishtar and Zeus, supreme beings who had their day, then faded into the mists of history.  What will probably not die is the desire to transcend the mere reality of our selves and to invent stories that explain who we are and why we are here.<br /><br />Karen Armstrong has given us a brilliant summary of our run-ups to the numinous.  It may be more information than you want, but you will be a better deist or atheist for making the effort.<br /><br />Related Readings.  A couple of other writers who come at these questions from a different angle are Joseph Campbell in The Masks of God, a classic of comparative religion, and Sam Harris, whose The End of Faith shows what damage can occur when god ends up as a tool in the wrong hands.nse of union with god, called fana, was considered blasphemous during the tenth - or was it the eleventh? - century?)  Mired in obscure doctrinal disputes, the mystics and philosophers coming at us fast and furious, it's easy to lose track of the big picture. <br /> <br />Not that Armstrong doesn't step back to lay out some big ideas:  monotheism has survived through the centuries because it has evolved as cultures have changed; when god becomes too remote or scary, some prophet comes along to make him more human-like and accessible; approaching god through our emotions seems to satisfy an innate need to surrender our selves to a union with something grander than we are.   <br /> <br />After several thousand years of batting the issue around, present-day monotheists seem to be migrating towards the extreme positions.  The secularists believe we've outgrown the idea of god, and turn to science as the source of answers to \\"that which is not yet known.\\"  The fundamentalists, according to Armstrong, are ahistorical, more concerned with the literal interpretation of ancient texts than finding a god who works in these times.  Perhaps Yaweh, Allah and Jesus will go the way of Baal, Anat, Ishtar and Zeus, supreme beings who had their day, then faded into the mists of history.  What will probably not die is the desire to transcend the mere reality of our selves and to invent stories that explain who we are and why we are here.  <br /> <br />Karen Armstrong has given us a brilliant summary of our run-ups to the numinous.  It may be more information than you want, but you will be a better deist or atheist for making the effort.   <br /> <br />Related Readings.  A couple of other writers who come at these questions from a different angle are Joseph Campbell in The Masks of God, a classic of comparative religion, and Sam Harris, whose The End of Faith shows what damage can occur when god ends up as a tool in the wrong hands.     <br />   <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-02
US	51873758	R3KRPBDQTRGAAL	0140283323	417477309	The Heart of the Matter (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Good Man in Africa	Considered by many critics to be one of the great novels of the twentieth century, The Heart of the Matter is also Greene's most penetrating dissection of his Catholic faith. Greene was a Catholic the way Dostoievsky was a Russian Orthodox Christian:  both used belief to slip through the gates of orthodoxy; once inside, they hurled their doubts like bombs, in prose so powerful it shook the very structures they claimed to support.<br /><br />Greene's hero, Henry Scobie, is an honest, if plodding, police superintendent in a malarial British outpost in West Africa.  Scobie's primary ambition is to cause no unnecessary suffering, and, in the case of his wife Louise, no additional unhappiness.  His fall from grace begins when he borrows money from the morally dubious Yusef because Louise wants to get away to South Africa and an easier life.  Once Louise has set sail, Scobie takes up with Helen, a young widow stranded in the colony.  When Louise unexpectedly returns, Scobie has to choose between doing the right thing according to Catholic dogma or following his feelings.<br /><br />Scobie has increasing difficulty embracing a god who refuses to let him be passionate (with Helen) and compassionate (to Louise).  The choices he makes put him on the Catholic version of the Perdition Express.  Unable to give either woman what she really needs, increasingly in Yusef's debt, and, most importantly, bereft of the comforts of his religion, Scobie drifts toward despair on a quickening current.<br /><br />Scobie has only good will toward those he cares for, but, in the Catholic sense, commits the sin of pride.  His attempts to resolve the suffering of others usurps god's role.  These attempts are doomed to fail because Scobie, unlike god, can't foresee the consequences of his actions.  Greene published this book in 1948, at a time when fascism had just been put down at enormous cost and communism was ascendant throughout Eastern Europe.  The Heart of the Matter is his response to those who put forward atheistic solutions to human suffering: absent god, human compassion alone is inadequate to heal the wounds we inflict and incur.<br /><br />The book is slow going at times - it's full of knotty interior monologues that are heated arguments with god - but it rewards the effort.  The plot is intricately constructed and unfolds with Greene's typical skill and flair.  The minor characters are well-drawn.  The sweaty, bug-infested coastal setting is palpable in its oppressiveness.  And whether or not you buy into Greene's religious outlook, you'll have no difficulty feeling for Scobie, a good man in Africa undone by the wayward promptings of his all-too-human heart.<br /><br />If you like this book, I'd recommend A Burnt Out Case, also set in Africa, and The Power and the Glory, a powerful look at the meaning of faith, often thought to be Greene's greatest work.response to those who put forward atheistic solutions to human suffering: absent god, human compassion alone is inadequate to heal the wounds we inflict and incur.   <br /> <br />The book is slow going at times - it's full of knotty interior monologues that are heated arguments with god - but it rewards the effort.  The plot is intricately constructed and unfolds with Greene's typical skill and flair.  The minor characters are well-drawn.  The sweaty, bug-infested coastal setting is palpable in its oppressiveness.  And whether or not you buy into Greene's religious outlook, you'll have no difficulty feeling for Scobie, a good man in Africa undone by the wayward promptings of his all-too-human heart.  <br /> <br />If you like this book, I'd recommend A Burnt Out Case, also set in Africa, and The Power and the Glory, a powerful look at the meaning of faith, often thought to be Greene's greatest work. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-27
US	51873758	R1WCN6ONOF8SJK	080504860X	928457605	Bigfoot Dreams	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Bigger Than Life	I picked up Bigfoot Dreams because I liked Prose's novel The Blue Angel.  Blue Angel took a situation that seemed absolutely played out - aging professor in midlife throes has an affair with one of his female students - and made something astringent and revealing out of it.<br /><br />Initially published in 1986, Bigfoot Dreams seems at first to be Ur-Chicklit.  Consider the archetypes:  our heroine, Vera, is a plucky single mom with an endearing but precocious ten year old daughter; Vera's parents are old lefties (Dad fought in the Spanish Civil War.);  she has an off-again, on-again marriage to Lowell, A Good Man Who Just Can't Seem to Commit; her best friend is lovable but prone to crazy impulses; two delightful gay guys live next door; and she has the requisite quirky job, as a reporter for the type of tabloid that specializes in Elvis, Bigfoot and UFO sightings.<br /><br />We follow Vera around New York City during a muggy summer of discontent.  There's a lot of day to day life - some readers might think too much.  We watch Vera chop vegetables, take the subway, empty the garbage, read the Sunday New York Times, sit through her daughter's ballet recital.  In between, she engages in unfulfilling mating rituals with a coworker, gets in trouble at work over the bizarre coincidence of having a story she made up turn out to be true, worries about her parents and daughter, and pines for Lowell.  Vera is a first wave feminist, at the point where the original proposition - we can have it all - is getting ground up in the day to day struggle, but no new synthesis has emerged.<br /><br />Judging from the Amazon reader reviews, several reviewers found Vera a claustrophobic consciousness to travel in for a couple hundred pages.  Part of the problem is the book's uneven tone.  Sometimes it's hard to tell whether Prose is satirizing or sympathizing.  The reader's left wondering which emotional card to put down.<br /><br />But Bigfoot Dreams is not so easily dismissed.  As in The Blue Angel, Prose is mining everyday life to extract fresh meaning from it.  In Vera's personal struggles, and in her tabloid stories, there's a tension between the dense, gravitational pull of the day to day and the desire to transcend it.  Vera's job at the tabloid brings her in contact with people who are desperate to believe the stories she makes up.  The America her readers live in seems as sun-blasted and empty as anything Camus' Stranger experienced on his African beach.  Vera's personal journey leads her to the place where she realizes that one of the reasons she's so good as a tabloid writer is because her aspirations aren't so different from those of her readers: she wants a life that's bigger and richer than the one she's ended up with.  Vera's made up stories have a perverse integrity.  She'd rather invent lies and know she's doing it than settle for truths that are half-baked, facile or destructive.<br /><br />Out of the particularity of Vera's life emerges a general portrait of the urban feminist intellectual, caught between the old certitudes she grew up with and murky new truths seen, like Bigfoot, only in unsatisfactory glimpses.  The struggle to pin down those truths is worthy of our respect, and, despite its meandering plot, so is Bigfoot Dreams.dismissed.  As in The Blue Angel, Prose is mining everyday life to extract fresh meaning from it.  In Vera's personal struggles, and in her tabloid stories, there's a tension between the dense, gravitational pull of the day to day and the desire to transcend it.  Vera's job at the tabloid brings her in contact with people who are desperate to believe the stories she makes up.  The America her readers live in seems as sun-blasted and empty as anything Camus' Stranger experienced on his African beach.  Vera's personal journey leads her to the place where she realizes that one of the reasons she's so good as a tabloid writer is because her aspirations aren't so different from those of her readers: she wants a life that's bigger and richer than the one she's ended up with.  Vera's made up stories have a perverse integrity.  She'd rather invent lies and know she's doing it than settle for truths that are half-baked, facile or destructive.     <br /> <br />Out of the particularity of Vera's life emerges a general portrait of the urban feminist intellectual, caught between the old certitudes she grew up with and murky new truths seen, like Bigfoot, only in unsatisfactory glimpses.  The struggle to pin down those truths is worthy of our respect, and, despite its meandering plot, so is Bigfoot Dreams.   <br />	2005-02-08
US	51873758	RJI5S7365MJFI	0374153892	282518591	Gilead: A Novel	Books	4	21	23	N	N	A Faith both Supple and Durable	This novel takes the form of a letter written in 1956 by a dying minister, John Ames, to his seven year old son.  His epistle is a graceful rumination on faith, the fraught ties of fathers and sons, and the fleeting glories of the physical world.<br /><br />If there were more ministers like Ames, there would be less nervousness in the Blue States about the incursions of religious thinking into everyday life.  He's wonderfully alive to the beauty of this world, respectful of its complexity, and willing to abide in its mysteries rather than plaster them over with dogma.  Ames is big-hearted and tough-minded, and even if you can't relate to his small-town prairie Protestantism, you have to admire his goodness and his intellectual rigor.<br /><br />The book is a triumph of tone, a kind of hushed, meditative musing that one might engage in while sitting alone in a church at twilight.  There is beautiful imagery here, as when Ames, talking about getting up before dawn as a young boy, says, \\"I remember walking out into the dark and feeling as if the dark were a great cool sea and the houses and the woods were all adrift in it, just about to ease off their moorings.\\"  Ames is a close, careful thinker, and his prose forces the reader to slow down to take in the full measure of his thought.<br /><br />The plot is a quiet accumulation of anecdotes and small incidents.  Ames talks about the tension between his grandfather, a fiery abolitionist who fought with John Brown in \\"Bloody Kansas\\" before the Civil War and his father, who rebelled against the fierce absolutism of the abolitionist world view by becoming a pacifist.  Ames also works hard to feel Christian charity for Jack Boughton, the roguish son of his best friend.  But Ames' core beliefs are never at risk here; his struggles are more about his reluctance to leave this life than with the unknowable machinations of his maker.<br /><br />\\"It seems to me that when something really ought to be true, it has a very powerful truth, which starts me thinking again about heaven,\\" Ames says at one point.  Not a bad explanation for the enduring appeal of religious belief - or fiction for that matter.<br /><br />Gilead is to be respected, treasured even, for the care and skill that have gone into its making.  This is a book that should be passed hand to hand by enthusiasts and it is a book that should endure.ery powerful truth, which starts me thinking again about heaven,\\" Ames says at one point.  Not a bad explanation for the enduring appeal of religious belief - or fiction for that matter. <br /> <br />Gilead is to be respected, treasured even, for the care and skill that have gone into its making.  This is a book that should be passed hand to hand by enthusiasts and it is a book that should endure. <br /> <br />	2005-02-01
US	51873758	R1WEEBN7HPIOX4	0805074562	393014403	On Intelligence	Books	4	15	16	N	N	The Amazing Prediction Machine	On Intelligence takes us down two paths.  The first and least interesting is a survey of the moribund state of artificial intelligence, or AI.  Jeff Hawkins claims that AI applications haven't lived up to their hype because they focus on machine logic, connectivity and processing power instead of understanding and replicating the decision-making capabilities of the human brain.  Which is his second and much more compelling path: an exploration of how the human brain produces intelligent thought.<br /><br />Hawkins focuses on the neocortex, a relatively recent evolutionary addition to the human brain.  The size of our cortex (a sheet of cells about the size of a dinner napkin) relative to our body mass gives us a huge advantage over other mammals and other species.  Hawkins' central assertion, derived from the theories of Vernon Mountcastle, is that the human cortex functions in the same way no matter what kind of data it's processing.  Details brought in through our sensory organs - seeing, hearing, touching - are converted into neural patterns, then processed up through a hierarchy of cortical levels.  Information gathered in the present moment is matched against previously built neural patterns stored in the cortex.<br /><br />Intelligence, then, is matching the data you pick up from your current environment against the representations of reality stored in your cortex in order to make predictions about the future.  Your cortex is essentially a prediction machine.  Its complexity lies not in its structure but in the trillions of neural connections linking different cortical layers and levels to one another.  As you learn something, you drive its stored representations down to lower levels of the cortex, freeing up capacity to learn more sophisticated representations.  An expert, whether it's a plumber, stockbroker, or oboe player, is someone who has stored more representation, and can therefore make more sophisticated predictions.<br /><br />What Hawkins proposes makes intuitive sense.  You can test it out yourself by taking a walk and observing how your mind works.  On a beach, for instance, you'll take in the warmth of the sun, the force of the wind, the sound of the waves, and match them up against mental templates to make a prediction.  If the weather is benign, you'll predict a leisurely walk down the beach.  If something is off - a cloud blocking the sun, a stronger wind, a bigger boom when the waves crash - you'll run this up against other mental patterns and predict the onset of a storm.  In all cases you are relying on the inputs of your senses and matching them against stored representations of past experiences.<br /><br />The book becomes dense with scientific detail only in Chapter 6 which is a level by level description of how the cortex works.  Even here, the prose is relatively jargon-free, and the essential points are accessible to the dedicated non-scientist.<br /><br />Hawkins' goal - a unified theory of how the brain works - is admirable, and his hypotheses seem well-reasoned, at least to this non-scientist.  In the interests of simplicity and clarity, though, he steps lightly over some of the messier aspects of mental functioning such as individual consciousness (how do I know it's me writing this?) and the subjective quality of human perception (is the red I see the same red you see?).  Hawkins doesn't ignore these issues, but he doesn't address them in any detail either.<br /><br />Except for the thalamus, (seen as an essential organ for sequencing information in representational patterns) he also doesn't spend a lot of time dealing with the ways in which other brain and body parts affect our pattern-making processes.  Emotions and mental pathologies, not to mention false memories, have a huge impact on our ability to predict future outcomes.  Which is why some writers and philosophers see the brain not as a well-oiled prediction machine, but as a hallucination engine.  Mental pathologies aren't the focus of Hawkin's investigations, but some good companion works to read would include Antonio Damasio's The Feeling of What Happens, and Oliver Sack's The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat.<br /><br />These issues aside, Hawkins deserves a lot of credit for injecting some provocative new thinking into the neurobiological debates, and for doing it in clear and accessible prose.  He even provides samples of testable predictions that can be run as experiments to prove or disprove his hypotheses.  Whether you ultimately agree or disagree with Hawkins, you'll come away with some new ways of looking at that amazing arrangement of neurons situated between your ears.hologies aren't the focus of Hawkin's investigations, but some good companion works to read would include Antonio Damasio's The Feeling of What Happens, and Oliver Sack's The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat. <br /> <br />These issues aside, Hawkins deserves a lot of credit for injecting some provocative new thinking into the neurobiological debates, and for doing it in clear and accessible prose.  He even provides samples of testable predictions that can be run as experiments to prove or disprove his hypotheses.  Whether you ultimately agree or disagree with Hawkins, you'll come away with some new ways of looking at that amazing arrangement of neurons situated between your ears.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-01-22
US	51873758	R3J8Y115D1NPHX	0374281580	481407616	I Am Charlotte Simmons: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Stale Beer on the Frat House Floor	There haven't been a lot of great American novels about college life.  F Scott Fitzgerald wrote a pretty good one, This Side of Paradise.  Barely out of Princeton when he published it, his prose still pulses with undergraduate ardor, and his hero, Amory Blaine, is practically a clone of the author.  Which is far different than writing a novel of contemporary college life when you're a male NYC sophisticate on the far side of seventy, and, nervier still, centering the bulk of it in the consciousness of an eighteen year old girl fresh from the hills of North Carolina.<br /><br />But Tom Wolfe never lacked chutzpah.  He got on the bus with Ken Kesey in the sixties; he took on the entire modern art establishment in The Painted Word; Bonfire of the Vanities nailed the coffin lid shut on the eighties.  Even A Man in Full, despite the weirdness of a factory worker spouting Seneca, got off some good shots on Wolfe's favorite themes: class consciousness and status anxiety.<br /><br />His singular contribution to American letters has been to spot the building swells of new social trends and carry us along for the ride.  Only this wave, the dramas and traumas of student life at an elite private university, peaked, crested and crashed decades ago.  With the exception of some riffs on neuroscience and consciousness theory, nothing that happens in this novel was news after 1970.<br /><br />We follow the rising and declining arcs of four students through half a year at Dupont University (think Duke, and you won't be far off).  We have Hoyt, an ultra cool frat boy, Jojo, the token white starter on Dupont's national championship basketball team, Adam, a twitchy Jewish intellectual, and our scholarship girl, Charlotte Simmons, a brainy, dirt-poor, and astoundingly nave freshman.  If this cast sounds somewhat clich&eacute;d, it's because they are.  The plot revolves around Charlotte's social and sexual awakening.  The Life of the Mind she came to Dupont to find can't compete with clambering up the ladder of cool.  There are a couple of subplots, one involving fellatio and the Governor of California, another about a basketball player cheating on a term paper.  After 600 plus pages - about twice as many as needed - everyone gets their bittersweet comeuppance.<br /><br />To give the Old Master his due, Wolfe's eye for moments of high status anxiety is still keen.  Jojo's contortions as he tries be black enough to fit in with his black teammates without going over the line into parody is one example.  The children of the American aristocracy attend Dupont, and their impervious snobbishness drives the meritocratic strivers like Adam mad, because this is one door that talent can't push open.<br /><br />Maybe there aren't many great college novels because college is one of those times better experienced than described - meaningful only to you and those in the academic trenches with you during your particular era of the culture wars.  So do yourself a favor.  Get together with some of your college chums.  Have a nice nostalgia soak about your days together at good old Whatever U.  The experience will be more authentic, rewarding and well spent than using that time to plough through I Am Charlotte Simmons..  There are a couple of subplots, one involving fellatio and the Governor of California, another about a basketball player cheating on a term paper.  After 600 plus pages - about twice as many as needed - everyone gets their bittersweet comeuppance.    To give the Old Master his due, Wolfe's eye for moments of high status anxiety is still keen.  Jojo's contortions as he tries be black enough to fit in with his black teammates without going over the line into parody is one example.  The children of the American aristocracy attend Dupont, and their impervious snobbishness drives the meritocratic strivers like Adam mad, because this is one door that talent can't push open.    Maybe there aren't many great college novels because college is one of those times better experienced than described - meaningful only to you and those in the academic trenches with you during your particular era of the culture wars.  So do yourself a favor.  Get together with some of your college chums.  Have a nice nostalgia soak about your days together at good old Whatever U.  The experience will be more authentic, rewarding and well spent than using that time to plough through I Am Charlotte Simmons.	2005-01-19
US	51873758	R25X8OWQODPKDK	1400041759	607262102	De Kooning: An American Master	Books	5	27	38	N	N	An American Classic	This superb biography of Willem de Kooning can be separated into several major themes.  There's the classic immigrant success story shading into classic American tragedy.  Young de Kooning flees a hardscrabble, emotionally difficult home life in Rotterdam by stowing away on a freighter bound for America.  After years of poverty and struggle, his paintings attract critical, then commercial success.  But in his triumph are the seeds of his downfall: the unresolved psychological issues that are the source of his creative genius are also the source of tremendous anxiety.  As the clamor for fresh masterpieces increases, the pressure of mining the places of inner pain becomes unbearable.  De Kooning becomes an alcoholic whose innumerable binge drunks would have killed someone who didn't possess his superhuman physical vitality.<br /><br />The book is also an inside look at the history of modern American art.  De Kooning was at center stage during its rise in the thirties and forties and its flowering in the fifties.  His first mentor, Arshile Gorky, taught him what it meant to be a serious artist in America.  We watch de Kooning trying to outrun the gigantic shadow of Picasso, culminating in paintings such as Excavation and the black-and-white series that achieved a brilliant synthesis of cubism and surrealism, the dominant art movements of the first half of the twentieth century.  During the fifties, he and Jackson Pollock represented the opposing camps of American expressionism.  During this period, de Kooning refused to abandon figurative drawing or attempts to integrate form into abstract compositions.  This put him at odds with leading art critics (Clement Greenburg, for instance) who championed the historical necessity of moving away from figurative representation.<br /><br />Finally, the authors spin a spellbinding psychological tale.  Raised by an abusive, domineering mother and an emotionally absent father, de Kooning was both strongly attracted to women and deeply paranoid about their potential power over him.  His fear of being trapped led him to always keep his options open, in art and in life.  He never divorced his first wife, Elaine, even though they lived apart for over thirty years.  He had a daughter (Lisa) with Joan Ward, and while he never totally abandoned them, he never settled in with them either.  If Elaine and Joan were the rhythm section of his love life, he also worked with a large rotating cast of solo performers and backup singers.  Although he could be a poster boy for bad male behavior - instances of irresponsibility, self-absorption, philandering, violence and booze-ups too numerous to catalog - his women were fanatically loyal to him.  None of his lovers have many bad things to say about a man who, looked at from the outside, might be mistaken for a world-class misogynist.<br /><br />All of these themes fuse in the authors' discussion of de Kooning's famous painting, Woman 1, still one of the most disturbing representations of the female form in all of art.  By the late forties, after years of abject poverty, de Kooning's abstract works were achieving critical and commercial success.  But instead of painting more of these works, de Kooning stopped what he was doing and started working in a completely new direction, on a figurative drawing of a woman.  Instead of making money and garnering kudos, he spent almost three years on one painting.  At one level, he was attempting to bring the history of art forward into expressionism.  Using the goddess figures of ancient Mesopotamia as his starting point, he worked in cubist planes and surrealist imagery to create a terrifying modern goddess.  For all its homage to the past, the work was also a deeply subjective expression of his love and fear of women, and beneath that, his desire for and need to escape from the suffocating embrace of his mother.<br /><br />De Kooning refused to force easy or false solutions on this painting, reworking it again and again while art world fashion moved further away from what he was trying to do.  This and other Woman paintings were never well-received when he first exhibited them.  But they are the strongest representation of his refusal to resolve uncomfortable contradictions or play to the painting fashions of the day.  His heroic irresolution, combined with masterful technique, give de Kooning's art a sustained tension and palpable aliveness.<br /><br />Even though he drank destructively from his late forties on, de Kooning made credible paintings into his mid eighties.  Alzheimer's disease clouded his mind, but a man acknowledged as one of the greatest draftsmen of the twentieth century didn't forget how to draw.  An entire support infrastructure was set up to keep the old man pumping out paintings because each one could be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars.  He lasted until 93, outliving almost all of his contemporaries and many of his younger lovers.  The last years were exhausting and depressing, and the authors seem spent by the time they finish chronicling them.  After a brief description of the funeral, and a one paragraph summary, they sign off.<br /><br />De Kooning was a protean figure.  A giant of twentieth century art, he absorbed all of its major movements into his work. His outsized personality contained charm and demons enough for ten men.  This book is smart about the art and smart about the man, and remarkably even-handed in the telling - the authors seem to deeply admire de Kooning while completely understanding his flaws as an artist and a man.  At almost 700 pages it's a commitment for the reader, but it's so well written, and the life story is so fascinating, that it zips along. If you have any interest in American art, or the inner life of a great artist, treat yourself to this book.d again while art world fashion moved further away from what he was trying to do.  This and other Woman paintings were never well-received when he first exhibited them.  But they are the strongest representation of his refusal to resolve uncomfortable contradictions or play to the painting fashions of the day.  His heroic irresolution, combined with masterful technique, give de Kooning's art a sustained tension and palpable aliveness.  <br /> <br />Even though he drank destructively from his late forties on, de Kooning made credible paintings into his mid eighties.  Alzheimer's disease clouded his mind, but a man acknowledged as one of the greatest draftsmen of the twentieth century didn't forget how to draw.  An entire support infrastructure was set up to keep the old man pumping out paintings because each one could be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars.  He lasted until 93, outliving almost all of his contemporaries and many of his younger lovers.  The last years were exhausting and depressing, and the authors seem spent by the time they finish chronicling them.  After a brief description of the funeral, and a one paragraph summary, they sign off. <br /> <br />De Kooning was a protean figure.  A giant of twentieth century art, he absorbed all of its major movements into his work. His outsized personality contained charm and demons enough for ten men.  This book is smart about the art and smart about the man, and remarkably even-handed in the telling - the authors seem to deeply admire de Kooning while completely understanding his flaws as an artist and a man.  At almost 700 pages it's a commitment for the reader, but it's so well written, and the life story is so fascinating, that it zips along. If you have any interest in American art, or the inner life of a great artist, treat yourself to this book. <br /> <br />   <br />	2005-01-11
US	51873758	RDR6DCYDQI285	0714837520	301843672	Aboriginal Art A&I (Art and Ideas)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Window into a Fascinating Culture	Over the past two decades, Aboriginal art from Australia has been gathering momentum as a major international art movement.  Christie's, Sotheby's and other auction houses hold regular, successful sales of paintings and artifacts produced at Aboriginal settlements across Australia.  Major historical figures such as Rover Thomas and Emily Kngwarre can command several hundred thousand dollars for a single painting.  Even though indigenous people make up less than three percent of the population, their art in recent years reportedly accounts for about half of the total dollar value of all art sold in Australia.<br /><br />The appeal of Aboriginal art to non-indigenous collectors is many-sided.  On a purely aesthetic level, the work is multi-layered and vibrant.  Western eyes familiar with Abstract Expressionism and other post-modern art movements have a conceptual bin in which to place Aboriginal painting.  Those who dig beneath the surface appeal discover that many of the paintings record the creation myths of the Aboriginal people, documenting how the land was created by mythical Ancestors during the Dreamtime.  Unlike much abstract western art, which concerns itself with technical issues - \\"flatness\\" or \\"shininess\\" or \\"color saturation\\" - Aboriginal art is about something complex and sacred that's been passed down from generation to generation for tens of thousands of years.  Collectors with a political bent can take satisfaction in knowing that works purchased from reputable galleries and community art centers provide money to economically downtrodden indigenous settlements while helping to validate the importance of Aboriginal culture.<br /><br />In this excellent book, Howard Morphy uses art scholarship, his experience in the settlements, and a deep empathy to place Aboriginal art firmly within the context of modern Aboriginal life.  The book shows how art making is a part of ritual practices used to summon and honor the Ancestors who made the world.  Art - whether it's done as rock paintings or sand drawings, body painting, wood carving, or the application of ochres to bark or acrylics to canvas - is a way of animating the past by making it come alive in the present.  Only designated clans or individuals have the right to perform certain rituals or tell certain Dreaming stories.  Art becomes a way of asserting and establishing those rights, as well as a way of establishing rights to the land where the dreaming story occurs.  Their art also enables Aborigines to open up a dialog with the dominant European culture in a way that expresses and asserts the value of their belief system.<br /><br />A significant part of Morphy's achievement is granting us access to the rich body of inherited myths, rituals and symbols that Aboriginal artists draw upon to create their art.  Like all great religious art, the best of this work expresses eternity in the context of a present moment.  Aboriginal artists such as Uta Uta Tjangala, Paddy Sims, and John Mawurndjul, like the Italian Renaissance masters, allow us to experience something sublime.  A number of women artists have also created major bodies of work.  Dorothy Napangardi, Judy Watson, and Eubena Nampitjin, for example, use sweeping lines and bold colors to tell their Dreaming stories and to express personal visions of everyday bush life.  In the works of the great Aboriginal artists, we are witnessing the expression of an enduring vision that has triumphed over time and, since the arrival of the Whitefellas, extremely adverse social circumstances.<br /><br />Morphy covers the evolution of this art from the Wandjina and Bradshaw rock art done thousands of years ago through printmaking and photography produced today by young urban Aboriginals.  He also discusses the historical and cultural circumstances that led to diverse artistic expressions on bark and wood across Arnhelm Land, and is informative on the multiplicity of painting styles that evolved out of ritual practice in the central and western deserts.  He provides us with a broad and sympathetic look at artists from southern Australia, where greater exposure to European settlers led to greater suffering and cultural disruption.  The concluding section on art produced by urban Aboriginals is convincing in its assertion that even though it differs from the \\"traditional\\" art produced in the settlements, it still says something important about the Aboriginal experience.<br /><br />The book is lavishly and expertly illustrated, and the reader will be struck by the sheer variety of forms and methods of artistic expression.  The most rewarding way to see this art is to travel to the places where it's being created and meet the artists who do it.  If that's not in your budget, the best public collection of Aboriginal art in the Unites States is the Kluge-Ruhe Collection, which is housed at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. (Howard Morphy is associated the Kluge-Ruhe Collection and helped to assemble it.)  If you read the book, then stand in front of some of these paintings, you will tap into one of the world's oldest continuous cultures while simultaneously experiencing the \\"shock of the new.\\"  As Howard Morphy amply demonstrates, the effort richly rewards you at multiple levels.in the central and western deserts.  He provides us with a broad and sympathetic look at artists from southern Australia, where greater exposure to European settlers led to greater suffering and cultural disruption.  The concluding section on art produced by urban Aboriginals is convincing in its assertion that even though it differs from the \\"traditional\\" art produced in the settlements, it still says something important about the Aboriginal experience. <br /> <br />The book is lavishly and expertly illustrated, and the reader will be struck by the sheer variety of forms and methods of artistic expression.  The most rewarding way to see this art is to travel to the places where it's being created and meet the artists who do it.  If that's not in your budget, the best public collection of Aboriginal art in the Unites States is the Kluge-Ruhe Collection, which is housed at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. (Howard Morphy is associated the Kluge-Ruhe Collection and helped to assemble it.)  If you read the book, then stand in front of some of these paintings, you will tap into one of the world's oldest continuous cultures while simultaneously experiencing the \\"shock of the new.\\"  As Howard Morphy amply demonstrates, the effort richly rewards you at multiple levels. <br />	2004-12-20
US	51873758	R176OVHGF5JCUE	0679442707	421816748	Vermeer in Bosnia: Cultural Comedies and Political Tragedies	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Wise, Enthralling, Insightful	In this collection of his essays, written over the past two decades, Lawrence Weschler reports on the summits and troughs of human endeavor.  He's often wise, sometimes enthralling, and always insightful.<br /><br />The opening essay, \\"Vermeer in Bosnia,\\" is worth the price of the book by itself.  The setting is The Hague during the Yugoslavian War Crimes tribunal.  He contrasts horrifying testimony about war criminals with the career of the famous Dutch artist Jan Vermeer, whose paintings are on display in a nearby museum.  Weschler shows us that Vermeer's greatest achievement was to imagine a world of stillness and serenity at a time when all of Europe was being torn apart by national hatreds and religious persecution, and then to will that world into existence through his art.  Those magnificent paintings are more than technical triumphs; they are triumphs of the human spirit.  The distance between Vermeer and the murderers, rapists and torturers on trial is heartbreaking.  Weschler makes us see Vermeer in a new light, and makes us feel in a new way the unique burdens of being human.<br /><br />The second essay in this section uses Shakespeare's Henry V to shed light on the Serbian massacre of thousands of Muslims at Srebrenica.  The final essay, \\"Aristotle in Belgrade\\" reports on Serbian students using the great philosopher as a propaganda weapon against the state police. Unlike Aristotle, though, these students and the rest of the Serbian citizenry abandoned moral discrimination and particularity in favor of dogma and propaganda.  Thinking in slogans led to a collective madness that drove the Serbs to commit unspeakable atrocities and then refuse to take responsibility for their actions.  Given the current situation in the Middle East, these essays are timely warnings as well as valuable historical records.<br /><br />Three Polish Survivor Stories, include portraits of film director Roman Polanski, graphic novelist Art Speigelman, and publisher Jerzy Urban.  The Polanski essay is fascinating for its psychological portrait of a man who survives by simultaneously mining and jettisoning his past.  The most intriguing essay is about Urban, a Jewish boy who survived anti-Semitic persecution to become a young anti-government radical, and, as an older man, a much-reviled government spokesperson for the regime of General Jarulzelski.  After that regime collapsed, Urban transformed yet again, this time into a highly successful purveyor of tabloid smut.  A cynical, unassimilated survivor through all of it, Urban comes across as both victim and brilliant manipulator of Poland's tortuous postwar politics.<br /><br />The Grandfathers and Daughters section contains six pieces that include Weschler's daughter as well as his grandfather, the composer Ernst Toch.  Unlike the big screen portrayals in the rest of the book, the writing here has the narrower appeal of home movies: some heartwarming moments, but more meaningful to the family than the rest of us.<br /><br />The most captivating of the Three LA Pieces is \\"The Light of LA,\\" which is a paean to its clarity and consistency and, paradoxically, its enfolding softness.  By interviewing artists, cinematographers, climatologists and astronomers, Weschler lovingly deconstructs the interpenetration of light and air that occurs in LA, a place where the desert, the ocean and tons of industrial particulate matter all meet.  The other two pieces are a nostalgic ride with the artist Robert Irwin through LA in the Forties, and a first person account of the 1994 Northridge earthquake.<br /><br />The final section, Three Portraits of Artists, contains two beautifully made works of narrative art.  \\"True to Life: David Hockney's Photocollages,\\" begins with Hockney picking up a point and shoot Polaroid camera to make some quick collages.  What starts as an attempt to introduce a temporal dimension to still photography evolves into a deep exploration of the nature of perception.  Hockney's historicalguidepost is the cubist way of seeing pioneered by Picasso and Braque.  The Cubists realized that  fragmenting an image forced a viewer to take more time to truly see it.  Hockney progresses from fragmenting a photographic image to removing the fixed edges of the rectangular photos \\"because there are no edges to seeing.\\"  Next, he places himself in the pictures because seeing also involves where the viewer is in relation to what's being seen.  Finally he tries to remove the static nature of the object being viewed by introducing different time sequences in the same collage.  (Weschler helpfully provides reproductions of the photocollages he's describing.) It's an exhilarating ride through the mind of a major artist working on nothing less than \\"the revitalization of depiction.\\"<br /><br />The final essay, \\"A Parkinsonian Passion,\\" covers the unique career of Ed Weinberger.  Weinberger was a classics major turned successful investment banker who in his early forties was stricken with Parkinson's disease.  A keen, driven mind was suddenly trapped in a balky, sputtering body.  Weinberger turned his considerable mathematical abilities to designing furniture whose specifications had tolerances as precise of those of aircraft or other sophisticated machines.  His most useful tool turned out to be the carpenter Scott Schmidt, who built the pieces that Weinberger designed.<br /><br />As his body grows increasingly beyond his control, Weinberger strains for greater precision and perfection in his art.  Doing this work helped focus his body and gave him a way to strike back against the oppressive inexorability of his disease.  Like Vermeer in the opening essay, Weinberger's story is one of spiritual as well as artistic triumph.<br /><br />Like Hockney and Weinberger, Weschler is an artist who makes us see familiar things in a new way.ckney's historical guidepost is the cubist way of seeing pioneered by Picasso and Braque.  The Cubists realized that  fragmenting an image forced a viewer to take more time to truly see it.  Hockney progresses from fragmenting a photographic image to removing the fixed edges of the rectangular photos \\"because there are no edges to seeing.\\"  Next, he places himself in the pictures because seeing also involves where the viewer is in relation to what's being seen.  Finally he tries to remove the static nature of the object being viewed by introducing different time sequences in the same collage.  (Weschler helpfully provides reproductions of the photocollages he's describing.) It's an exhilarating ride through the mind of a major artist working on nothing less than \\"the revitalization of depiction.\\" <br /> <br />The final essay, \\"A Parkinsonian Passion,\\" covers the unique career of Ed Weinberger.  Weinberger was a classics major turned successful investment banker who in his early forties was stricken with Parkinson's disease.  A keen, driven mind was suddenly trapped in a balky, sputtering body.  Weinberger turned his considerable mathematical abilities to designing furniture whose specifications had tolerances as precise of those of aircraft or other sophisticated machines.  His most useful tool turned out to be the carpenter Scott Schmidt, who built the pieces that Weinberger designed.   <br /> <br />As his body grows increasingly beyond his control, Weinberger strains for greater precision and perfection in his art.  Doing this work helped focus his body and gave him a way to strike back against the oppressive inexorability of his disease.  Like Vermeer in the opening essay, Weinberger's story is one of spiritual as well as artistic triumph. <br /> <br />Like Hockney and Weinberger, Weschler is an artist who makes us see familiar things in a new way. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />     <br />	2004-12-09
US	51873758	R39CHY9KZNGYQK	140004281X	449937415	Runaway	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Go Ask Alice	Several years ago, I picked up Alice Munro's collection of short stories, Open Secrets, and started reading the first story, \\"Carried Away.\\"  Over fifty pages, I experienced half a century of a woman's life and a country's history written with boldness, sweep and utter command.  By the time I finished the story, Munro had completely redefined my notions about what a short story could be.<br /><br />Munro's best work continues to astonish, and a lot of it is on display in her latest collection, Runaway.  The title story is classic Munro, which is as good as it gets.  The runaway is a young woman attempting to flee a stalled marriage, and, ultimately, figure out where she fits in the world.  The ending, which ties the fate of the girl's pet goat, also a runaway, with her own, is stunning in its rightness and emotional impact.<br /><br />\\"Passion\\" is almost as good.  A teenaged girl, Grace, takes an impulsive car ride and learns some life-altering truths about herself and about the dark currents of despair surging beneath the placid surface of her small town Canadian life.  \\"Trespasses\\" is about a younger girl carried unwillingly on the tide of adult deceptions and desires.  \\"Tricks\\" hinges on a moment of mistaken identity that changes the direction of a young nurse's life.<br /><br />The least successful part of the collection is a group of three connected stories about Juliet, a callow classics major who cuts off ties to her past, only to have her daughter do the same thing to her many years later.  The three stories have the length of a novella, but not the cohesiveness.  Nor do any the individual panels in this triptych have the resonance of Munro's best made stories.<br /><br />The story whose impact lingers longest is \\"Powers\\" which is too big in all ways to try and summarize.  Read it, and be moved by writing that seems beyond storytelling, that feels like Truth Itself.  Reading Munro at the height of her art is like listening to John Coltrane play the saxophone - there's a point where analysis breaks down and all you can do is pay homage to genius.<br /><br />Munro characters all bump up against the same defining question: do you have the courage to be who you truly are?  Her stories tend to be about small moments with big implications: those times in a life when possibilities for personal liberation either open up or close down.  Since the desire to break free from what constrains us exists within all humans, the concerns of Munro's provincial Canadian girls, though firmly grounded in a time and place, are universal in their implications.  These characters affect us so deeply because their successes and failures mirror our own.<br /><br />Only great artists achieve this kind of universality, and that level of artistry is on display in Runaways.  The collection doesn't have the sustained brilliance of Open Secrets, but what does?  You can only compare Munro to herself, because, in the realm of the short story, she has no peers.play the saxophone - there's a point where analysis breaks down and all you can do is pay homage to genius. <br /> <br />Munro characters all bump up against the same defining question: do you have the courage to be who you truly are?  Her stories tend to be about small moments with big implications: those times in a life when possibilities for personal liberation either open up or close down.  Since the desire to break free from what constrains us exists within all humans, the concerns of Munro's provincial Canadian girls, though firmly grounded in a time and place, are universal in their implications.  These characters affect us so deeply because their successes and failures mirror our own.  <br /> <br />Only great artists achieve this kind of universality, and that level of artistry is on display in Runaways.  The collection doesn't have the sustained brilliance of Open Secrets, but what does?  You can only compare Munro to herself, because, in the realm of the short story, she has no peers.  <br />	2004-12-05
US	51873758	R1LHGCHCY96TEF	0142003808	28976631	Drop City	Books	3	96	106	N	N	Good Read, But Boyle Can Do Better	Several years ago, I saw Welsa Whitfield perform show tunes and torch songs at a cabaret.  She sang arch renditions of sentimental ballads, drawing out the emotion in the songs and mocking it at the same time.  Her act didn't really cohere because you can't have it both ways.  You can't be ironic and sincerely poignant at the same time.<br /><br />This same issue - the messy conjoining of irony and sincerity - affects much of T.C. Boyle's fiction.  Boyle is probably the most talented of the Boomer-generation fiction writers.  He can do novels of epic sweep as well as pointillistic short stories.  He's a fiendishly imaginative plotter, a supple stylist, and can assemble big casts of eye-catching characters.  And he's laugh- out-loud funny.  Boyle is also the most frustrating writer of his generation because he uses all this talent for the ironic take, the quick score, the easy laugh.  Capable of being our Dickens or Balzac, the writer who defines his time, he mostly settles for being a deft satirist.<br /><br />Which brings us to Drop City.  The plot is straightforward enough.  A group of hippies wear out their welcome in Sonoma County, California.  Their leader, the quasi-charismatic Norm, owns some land in Alaska his uncle left to him.  The hippie cavalcade moves north, where their goofy communal hedonism smacks up against the harsh realties of life in the Alaskan bush.  The counterpoint to the hippies is a young trapper, Sess Harder, and his new wife Pamela.  Sess and Pamela befriend the hippies, and the lives of the hippies and the locals mingle with some comic and some tragic results.<br /><br />There are easy targets here, and Boyle hits them without overly straining himself.  He skewers the Love Generation's meretricious idealism, greedy intake of flesh and illegal substances, the chaos of communal egalitarianism.  The epiphanies are pretty straightforward too.  Star, one of the hippie chicks whose consciousness Boyle drops us into, figures out that sexual liberation is a better deal for the guys than the girls.  Her boyfriend, Marco, realizes that pleasure-seeking self-indulgence isn't such a great survival strategy when the larder is low and winter's coming on.<br /><br />This would have been news around 1971.  But Drop City was delivered to us in 2003.  If it's history we're dealing with, Boyle might have given us a deeper look at the motives of his patchouli-scented tribe.  Beneath the sex, drugs, and rock and roll of that era, there did exist a meaningful critique of the spiritual emptiness of suburban American life.  That critique generated a mass movement that put the best and brightest of an entire generation out on the road, searching for something better.  Enormous effort went in to developing alternative structures and processes; it wasn't all comic or misguided.  Had Boyle given his hippies more depth of motivation, their commune's demise would have been more resonant, or at least more poignant.<br /><br />But Boyle doesn't do poignant.  What we get in Drop City are some funny riffs on hippie pretentiousness, some strong descriptive writing about the Alaskan bush, and a story that's clever enough to keep you turning the pages.  Read it, enjoy it, and you'll probably stop thinking about the characters ten minutes after you put it down.<br /><br />All of Boyle's novels offer at minimum a fun ride.  He moves nimbly around the American landscape and has a fine eye for the ridiculous.  Budding Prospects deals with a later era of Northern California pot smokers.  The Tortilla Curtain, a look at illegal immigrants in Southern California, is almost great, but he just had to drop in his patented hipster irony.  A Friend of the Earth is an imaginative ecological dystopia.  The Road to Wellville is about nineteenth century utopians who preached truth and salvation through cereal grains instead of lysergic acid diethylamide.  World's End won a Pen/Faulkner award.<br /><br />Boyle is also a deft short story writer.  You can catch most of them in TC Boyle Stories.  Pay special attention to the story \\"If the River Was Whiskey.\\"  It demonstrates the kind of power Boyle can achieve when he lets a little emotional sincerity seep into a narrative.  That particular story is a standard he should hold himself to, instead of squandering precious writerly juices on five finger exercises like Drop City.  Here's hoping that Boyle, as he rounds into the final turn of his productive career, will use his immense talent to rise to the greatness of which he's capable.y writer.  You can catch most of them in TC Boyle Stories.  Pay special attention to the story \\"If the River Was Whiskey.\\"  It demonstrates the kind of power Boyle can achieve when he lets a little emotional sincerity seep into a narrative.  That particular story is a standard he should hold himself to, instead of squandering precious writerly juices on five finger exercises like Drop City.  Here's hoping that Boyle, as he rounds into the final turn of his productive career, will use his immense talent to rise to the greatness of which he's capable.  <br />	2004-12-02
US	51873758	R25WOKQM2QL19Q	0452283973	838675611	The Impressionist	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Great First Impression	With so many fine novels written during the past decade about the Indian emigrant experience, is there anything new to say on the topic?  Hari Kunzru's picaresque tale of an Anglo-Indian boy answers, resoundingly, yes.<br /><br />Pran Nath is the fruit of an improbable union between an Indian girl and a soldier of the British Empire who are literally thrown together during a flash flood.  The soldier dies, and the girl travels onward to Agra and her arranged marriage.  There she convinces her unworldly husband that the child in her swelling belly is his own.  Pran's mother dies giving birth, and her unsuspecting husband raises Pran as his prized son and heir.  Pran's life as a spoiled, upper class youth comes to an abrupt end when he's betrayed by a servant who knows the true tale of his patrimony.<br /><br />Tossed into the streets, Pran suffers the usual depredations visited upon defenseless urchins.  After some months as a captive child prostitute, he's sold out of a brothel into the service of a minor maharajah.  Pran's new job is to seduce a British colonial administrator with a taste for young boys so the maharajah can blackmail him.  The political and erotic byplay builds to a hilarious climax involving magic potions, drugged tigers, and miscegenation.<br /><br />The inclusion of \\"child prostitute\\" and \\"hilarious\\" in the description above hints at the story's accomplishments and limitations.  We're captivated by Pran's adventures, but he's more comic book hero than fully fleshed out character.  Suspend disbelief, and you'll enjoy the ride.  Look elsewhere for more literal emotional truths.<br /><br />Pran escapes to Bombay, where he's given bed and board by Scottish missionaries.  While the colonial edifice in India starts to shudder and crack, Pran shuttles between high minded Protestantism and the brothels of Falkland Road, where he makes a skimpy living as an errand boy and low level pimp.  He also takes tentative steps to pass himself off as an Englishman, using his light skin as the ticket out of his Indian self.  One evening, Pran serves as night guide to a drunken English youth, raised in India but now orphaned and returning to England.  When the English boy gets murdered during a political riot, Pran takes his clothes and his identity and sets sail for the land of his father.<br /><br />Passing as Jonathan Bridgeman, Pran is provided with a comfortable inheritance and sent first to a boarding school, then to Oxford.  Pran becomes an actor and an aesthete, but his real course of study is English customs and manners, which he mimics and dissects in order to discover the wellsprings of British imperial power.  While at Oxford, he begins a romance with Astarte Chapel, the daughter of a famous anthropologist.  Astarte is the peaches and cream essence of Anglo-Saxon girlhood, and the smitten Pran feels he's sailing toward the very fountainhead of Englishness.  But then he discovers that Astarte's tastes run darker and wilder than the prim and proper Englishman Pran's worked so hard to become.<br /><br />Pran flees to Africa with Astarte's father to study a remote jungle tribe.  After an arduous upriver journey, the expedition finds that the long arm of empire has been here before them and upended the tribe's culture.  Now truly in the heart of darkness, Pran has to come to terms with the deteriorating situation in the bush and his own wobbly sense of who he really is.<br /><br />The Impressionist is a remarkably assured first novel.  It's a sensual book, not because of the too numerous sexual escapades, but in the rich descriptions of clothes, palaces, brothels and city streets and in the striking and humorous oddities of British and Indian culture seen through Pran's boyish eyes.  Echoes of great English writers such as Waugh, Forster, Dickens, and Conrad give the book texture.  All the Big Ideas about race, class and identity evolve naturally out of the story.  This is a wise, funny, and inventive novel.  We can only hope the multi-talented Kunzru will continue working in this particular medium.d inventive novel.  We can only hope the multi-talented Kunzru will continue working in this particular medium. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-11-27
US	51873758	R3323LLOVTEK7B	0393035158	2927274	The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason	Books	4	13	14	N	N	In Praise of Reason	We need prophets who aren't afraid to bust up decorous debates and warn us about real and present dangers.  In The End of Faith, Sam Harris sweeps aside moderate arguments about respecting the right of people to worship any god they choose and argues that the fundamentalist followers of monotheistic religions, if left unchecked, will destroy us all. Cruelty and madness grip Christians, Jews, and Muslims when they embrace injunctions to worship no other god but their own and smite anybody who does.  People whipped into frenzy by true faith become willing foot soldiers for crusades, inquisitions, intifadas, jihads, suicide bombings and ethnic cleansings.<br /><br />Harris tackles the sacred texts straight on.  He sees the Bible, Koran and Torah as primitive, tendentious documents.  Sandwiched between admonitions to be kind to your neighbor are numerous bloodthirsty admonitions to kill any neighbor who isn't of the true faith.  Unless we reframe the uncritical acceptance of these documents by their followers, he argues, we'll live in a state of perpetual war.<br /><br />His antidote is reason, and the same kind of empiricism that we apply to every other aspect of our lives.  If we won't get into a plane without some proof that it will carry us safely through the air, why don't we demand the same proof about some of the outlandish claims in the sacred texts?  Harris makes a distinction between faith, which he sees as the uncritical acceptance of dogma, and spirituality, which can be subjected, like science, to empirical attempts to discover what is not yet known.  He praises Buddhism for being a non dogmatic attempt to observe and express the deepest workings of the human psyche.  We think our path works, the Buddhists say, but don't take our word for it: try it out yourself.<br /><br />He also holds out hope that our increasing knowledge of neuroscience and biochemistry will enable us to better understand the mystical and ecstatic states we now ascribe to god.  Given more knowledge, the yearning to connect with the ineffable that drives so many people into the embrace of religious fanatics may find other, less destructive outlets.<br /><br />Like many prophets, Harris is stronger on the causes than the cures.  His discussions of Buddhism and neuroscience are more flybys than deeply examined solutions.  And he undercuts the strength of his argument by not giving enough weight to the numinous desires most humans feel.  Religion, not science, is where most of us turn to meet this need, and there are strong reasons for that.  So many of us are desperate for god.  Harris clearly isn't, and his lack of empathy for those who seek that connection is apparent.<br /><br />This is an important book, though, and a timely warning about the damage that occurs to civilization when the forces of unreason march under the banners of angry desert gods.iven more knowledge, the yearning to connect with the ineffable that drives so many people into the embrace of religious fanatics may find other, less destructive outlets.  <br /> <br />Like many prophets, Harris is stronger on the causes than the cures.  His discussions of Buddhism and neuroscience are more flybys than deeply examined solutions.  And he undercuts the strength of his argument by not giving enough weight to the numinous desires most humans feel.  Religion, not science, is where most of us turn to meet this need, and there are strong reasons for that.  So many of us are desperate for god.  Harris clearly isn't, and his lack of empathy for those who seek that connection is apparent. <br /> <br />This is an important book, though, and a timely warning about the damage that occurs to civilization when the forces of unreason march under the banners of angry desert gods.     <br />	2004-11-22
US	51873758	R36KKSFZP7KVK4	0743228154	819450417	Chronicles, Vol. 1	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Portrait of the Artist as a Young Folkie	I confess to picking up Bob Dylan's Chronicles with some trepidation.  This is a man notorious for erasing and rewriting the facts of his life, a man who went through repeated incarnations for reasons often obscure to the rest of us, someone who stubbornly refused, throughout his entire career, to put labels on himself or his songs.  How much of this well-documented obscurantism would find its way onto the page?<br /><br />Even though some of these fears were justified - there's a lot of emotional and factual evasiveness - this is nevertheless a terrific book.  Dylan didn't set out to write a conventional autobiography.  This isn't a born here, did this, went there chronological narrative.  Nor is it an apologia for the life he lived, or a settling of old scores.  It's about the education, sentimental and otherwise, of a world class bard.  On that level, he totally delivers the goods, providing honest, hard won insights about what molded him as a musician.  He writes with intelligence and candor about his creative influences, and movingly about periods of creative atrophy and regeneration.<br /><br />The emotional heart of the book is the tale of young Bobby Zimmerman, high on Kerouac and scratchy Woody Guthrie 78s, trekking from Minnesota to New York City in the early sixties, determined to make his mark as a folk singer.  Writing in a striking and quirky style, he brings the Greenwich Village folk scene to life while generously acknowledging the musicians and intellectuals who gave him a hand up, a good idea, or a couch to crash on.<br /><br />Young Dylan knew where he was heading, and had unshakable faith he'd get there.  As he scuffled through the Village, he absorbed everything and seemingly forgot nothing.  We get Whitmanesque recitations of musicians heard, celebrities met, books read, current and historical events noted  As a performer, he was nurtured and influenced by traditional American music: blues, country, jazz, and particularly folk.  Talking about musicians who changed their style, he says of himself, \\"As for me, what I did to break away was to take simple folk changes and put new imagery and attitudes to them, use catchphrases and metaphor combined with a new set of ordinances that evolved into something different that had not been heard before.\\"  Bob Dylan may have been an original, but he takes great pains to show us that his songs didn't come out of thin air.<br /><br />The book jumps around in time and space.  He opens with the hardscrabble Village days and takes us to the point where he's about to stop channeling his folksinger predecessors and start writing his own songs.  We then cut to the late sixties, when he's dealing with the unwelcome byproducts of worldwide fame.  Desperate to avoid the radicals and just plain crazies who want to co-opt him for their own purposes, he flees from place to place to find some peaceful space to raise his children.  He's determined to preserve his identity as a working musician and avoid becoming everybody's prophet or anybody's icon.  He's a man struggling to keep control of his own soul.<br /><br />We lurch from there to 1987, when he's struggling with artistic burnout.  A chance encounter with a jazz singer gives him access to a new singing technique and a remembered conversation with a blues musician gives him new rhythmic tricks.  He takes us into a recording studio in New Orleans during this same period, and shows us his struggles to lay down some new songs using these new insights.  He rubs our noses in the sweat, frustration and uncertainty of making original music.  All his hard-won musical technique still doesn't grant him unimpeded access through that door to the place where it all comes together just once, just right.<br /><br />In the final section we detour back to the nascent folkie as a teenager in Minneapolis, and then we're in the Village again, in the early sixties.  He zeroes in on the influences that formed him as a songwriter, a fascinating stewthat included Rimbaud, Brecht, the blues musician Robert  Johnson, Hank Williams, and, of course, Woody Guthrie.  These weren't subconscious influences.  When Dylan heard something he thought was the real deal, he dissected it with the focus and care of a Swiss watchmaker.  Inspired as his songwriting may have been, according to him it was never casual or effortless.<br /><br />Like Dylan's best songs, Chronicles is tough-minded, honest, filled with startling imagery and striking insights.  Much of the stuff of everyday life is missing here, but that's alright.  We never listened to Dylan to get the facts;  but we did count on him to make us feel the Big Truths.  That's what he does here.as a songwriter, a fascinating stew that included Rimbaud, Brecht, the blues musician Robert  Johnson, Hank Williams, and, of course, Woody Guthrie.  These weren't subconscious influences.  When Dylan heard something he thought was the real deal, he dissected it with the focus and care of a Swiss watchmaker.  Inspired as his songwriting may have been, according to him it was never casual or effortless. <br /> <br />Like Dylan's best songs, Chronicles is tough-minded, honest, filled with startling imagery and striking insights.  Much of the stuff of everyday life is missing here, but that's alright.  We never listened to Dylan to get the facts;  but we did count on him to make us feel the Big Truths.  That's what he does here. <br /> <br />	2004-11-22
US	51873758	RBDN2L04TAQ2I	0394504682	880785910	Mickelsson's Ghosts	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	A Great American Novel	In this huge, turbulent book we roll and tumble through the consciousness of Peter Mickelsson,  a down-at-the-heels philosophy professor whose pursuit of the Good and the True is undermined by lechery, madness, witchcraft and the Internal Revenue Service.<br /><br />As Mickelsson careens through a season of discontent, we follow willingly along in his wake.  The book is an overstuffed toy box of ideas and events.  Neitzsche and Wittgenstein cast major shadows across Mickelsson's thought processes.  He wrestles with the phantasms of his boyhood, the pain of his recent divorce, the \\"actual\\" ghosts who inhabit the dilapidated farmhouse he's fixing up in rural Pennsylvania, the higher and lower angels of his sex life, and his blunderings through the complicated, intermittently treacherous worlds of academia and small town America.<br /><br />This novel threatens to fly off in a dozen directions.  What holds it together is Gardner's marvelous prose.  The book is best read in small sips rather than great gulps, the better to savor Gardner's well-made paragraphs and the sweep of his ideas.  The other unifying force is  Mickelsson's perverse faith that goodness and order do exist (perhaps beyond reach) above the squalor and chaos of the life he's fallen into.  Drowning in randomness and unreason, Mickelsson fights on, and despite his many sins and missteps, his stubbornness comes to seem admirable, heroic even.<br /><br />This is one of the best American novels you'll read.  Its power, sweep, ambition and humanity put it right up there with Moby Dick, only the white whale here is the search for life's meaning among the mind games of modern philosophy and the mysteries and dangers that lurk out at the edges of the American experience.	2004-08-13
US	51873758	R1HRCDI6T021I6	1585674427	262388318	A Voice at the Borders of Silence	Books	5	32	32	N	Y	The Sounds of Silence	What are we to make of William Segal?  Born in 1904 to parents of modest means, his early life followed the classic trajectory of the self made American man.  After attending college in New York on a football scholarship, he went into the magazine business and quickly became a successful entrepreneur, amassing a stable of design and lifestyle magazines.  Business wealth brought him material rewards, the Park Avenue apartment, the country place in New Jersey, the house on Fire Island.<br />So far, a typical American success story.  But there were other facets to William Segal.  He was a painter of some talent who kept at it for over 60 years.  He focused mainly on self portraits, part of his life's real work, which was looking for answers to the two big questions: who am I, and why am I here?  His search led him to Ouspensky and eventually to Gurdjieff, and he stayed involved with the movement that grew up around Gurdjieff's teaching for over half a century.  He also met and maintained friendships with several Buddhist scholars and spirtual leaders, from TD Suzuki to the Dalai Lama.<br />Throughout his long life (he lived to 96) he remained &quot;the man in the marketplace&quot; living fully in this world while seeking ways to transcend it.  In one remarkable passage he talks about visiting and practicing at zen monasteries in Japan and then racing back to his day job as a business consultant to a Japanese conglomerate.  He never ducked the hard question of how a material man engages in yet moves past the snares and delusions of everyday life.  Indeed, one wishes the book talked in more depth about how he reconciled the grasping, sharp-elbowed world of American business with the state of non-grasping, timeless awaress he sought in his zen practice.<br />The secret to a rich life, this wise man tells us, is paying attention.  Being fully engaged with your surroundings means you're always sitting down to a sensory banquet that nourishes your soul.  Live in the world, says Segal, but learn to be still and to be receptive.<br />The book tells Segal's story through mix of photos, interviews, paintings, and reminiscences by the author and his distinguished friends.  Reading it is like being led deeper into the woods until you come to a empty meadow, utterly still.  In that stillness you can learn something truly important.ays Segal, but learn to be still and to be receptive.  <br />The book tells Segal's story through mix of photos, interviews, paintings, and reminiscences by the author and his distinguished friends.  Reading it is like being led deeper into the woods until you come to a empty meadow, utterly still.  In that stillness you can learn something truly important.	2004-03-16
US	51873758	R2I50XSYZ6NR71	0060196491	264638295	The Stories of Richard Bausch	Books	4	31	36	N	Y	Pain Soup	Say your goal is to locate a short story writer in relation to his peers.  Start by imagining a map of a valley, with Mount Munro at one end and Mount Carver at the other.  Mount Munro, after Alice, is the summit of capacious stories that range widely across time and space, containing fully laid out lives.  Inner worlds are slowly peeled back and the reader is led, subtly and inexorably, to a shiver of revelation.  At the other extreme, Raymond Carver's brief stories seem found rather than made.  The insights come all at once and hit you so fast you feel defenseless, then dazed.  The impact lingers long after you've put down the story.<br />The Stories of Richard Bausch lie in the Carver end of the valley, somewhere fairly high up on the flanks of Mount Carver.  The guy can write, and, like Carver, he can crack open whole worlds in a few pages.  Each story read separately is a gem.  Read them in a batch, though, and you may feel that you're stuck in the same bleak place.  Bausch writes mostly about men whose lives are spinning out of control.  These men seem to lack the something - courage, self-awareness, time, money or energy - they need to step off the entropy express.  Individually, the lives are poignant; collectively they're depressing.<br />Which isn't to say there aren't small masterpieces here.  Like Valor, about a drunk who saves a busload of kids only to come home and find his wife is leaving him.  Or Glass Meadow, a marvelous depiction of what it feels like to be a twelve year old boy, wrapped in a story that's funny and sad and tender and true.  Or The Person I Have Mostly Become, about the futility of good intentions, one of the saddest stories you'll ever read.  In addition to men, Bausch crafts the emotional worlds of young boys, perhaps an underserved population in current fiction, with a jeweler's precision.<br />What gives these stories their power is, paradoxically, what is also unsatisfying about them: the absence of the implied author.  The implied author is the shaping force that sits between the people on the page and the actual person who writes the story.  The implied author presents a stance toward the work, which helps the reader to shape their own response.  The implied author Alice Munro says to us, \\"We're going to look at some painful things, but we're going to go about it with dignity and fortitude, and no matter how sad or trapped these people are, neither we nor they will miss the grace notes or succumb to despair.\\"  The implied Raymond Carver is a Bogart-like figure, who says, \\"This is what life is like, my friend, funny and sad all at once, and we have no choice but to stay on stage and play out our part.  Let's lift a glass for all the acts of fecklessness and false bravado, toast those ineffectual fists raised against fate.\\"<br />I can't find the implied Richard Bausch, and I can't figure out how he feels about all this despair he's serving up.  He seems to be saying, \\"Here's a bowl of pain soup.  I'll step aside and let you eat it.  When you're done with this one, I'll serve you another.\\"<br />How you respond to this collection depends upon how many bowls of pain soup you can stand to eat in one sitting.mplied author is the shaping force that sits between the people on the page and the actual person who writes the story.  The implied author presents a stance toward the work, which helps the reader to shape their own response.  The implied author Alice Munro says to us, \\"We're going to look at some painful things, but we're going to go about it with dignity and fortitude, and no matter how sad or trapped these people are, neither we nor they will miss the grace notes or succumb to despair.\\"  The implied Raymond Carver is a Bogart-like figure, who says, \\"This is what life is like, my friend, funny and sad all at once, and we have no choice but to stay on stage and play out our part.  Let's lift a glass for all the acts of fecklessness and false bravado, toast those ineffectual fists raised against fate.\\" <br />I can't find the implied Richard Bausch, and I can't figure out how he feels about all this despair he's serving up.  He seems to be saying, \\"Here's a bowl of pain soup.  I'll step aside and let you eat it.  When you're done with this one, I'll serve you another.\\"<br />How you respond to this collection depends upon how many bowls of pain soup you can stand to eat in one sitting.	2004-02-15
US	51873758	RBHTFOQ82X3QX	0521462029	32948398	Upheavals of Thought: The Intelligence of Emotions	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	I Think, Therefore I Feel	Drawing on her vast knowledge of philosophy, psychology and literature, Martha Nussbaum takes us on a tour of the emotional landscape that ranges from the agora in Athens to the world of lab rats and electrodes.  Her goal is to convince us that our emotions are cognitive appraisals of the world around us.  If we master this idea, we improve our chances of building a life that's ethical, passionate and compassionate.<br />The argument unfolds in three sections.  In Need and Recognition, Nussbaum defines emotions as evaluative judgements about the world  based on our ideas of what we deem important for our own flourishing.  After elaborating on this definition, she refines it by sparring with the -ologists who argue for the physiological origins of emotion.  She addresses in a convincing way the question of how pre-verbal beings such as infants and non-verbal beings such as animals can make sophisticated evaluative judgements.  The section on infant emotions plunges the reader back into those wild storms of bliss and rage that come from having all that you need to survive exist beyond your direct control.<br />Part II, Compassion, describes the process of extending one's definition of self-interest beyond the boundaries of one's own skin.  She is particulary good on how shame and disgust, if not mastered, distance you from other people and prevent you from being imaginatively connected to a larger world.<br />Ascents of Love, the third part, traces evolving views of erotic love and it's here that Nussbaum's arguments start to soar.  She demonstrates how the Platonic and Christian ascents of love solve the &quot;problem&quot; of loving specific individuals: you render the human irrelevant by ascending to the abstractions of ideal form or love of god.  Nussbaum argues brilliantly for a view of erotic love that encompasses the ideal and real people as well.  Her writing peaks in the chapters on Mahler and Joyce.  She depicts Mahler's second symphony as a paean to human striving as a reward in itself, and Joyce's Ulysses as a heroic reclamation of the body in all its waywardness and fecundity from the life-denying clutch of the Catholic Church.<br />This book is important because it convincingly places control of our emotions within our own cognitive grasp.  As masters of our emotions, we just might live a better life.  One wishes the prose was less plodding in places, and the text less bristly with footnotes, but persevere.  The views from the peaks are magnificent.triving as a reward in itself, and Joyce's Ulysses as a heroic reclamation of the body in all its waywardness and fecundity from the life-denying clutch of the Catholic Church.<br />This book is important because it convincingly places control of our emotions within our own cognitive grasp.  As masters of our emotions, we just might live a better life.  One wishes the prose was less plodding in places, and the text less bristly with footnotes, but persevere.  The views from the peaks are magnificent.	2004-02-14
US	51873758	R1EN700FRMIX9K	067081914X	252679937	Fyodor Dostoyevsky	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	Great Writer, Great Life	This compulsively readable biography by a Norwegian professor (in an excellent translation by the writer Siri Hustveldt and David McDuff) immerses the modern reader in the literary, social and philosophical currents that shaped Dostoevsky's thinking and writing.<br />Professor Kjetsaa has great material to work with, because the novelist's life would have made a page turning Russian novel.  Before he was forty, Dostoevsky's father had died at the hands of his own serfs, a close childhood friend was kidnapped and killed, and he came within minutes of being executed by a firing squad for his political beliefs.  His death sentence was commuted to exile, and he spent a decade in Siberia as a political prisoner and military conscript before making his way back to St Petersberg and literary respectability.  Lifelong attacks of epilepsy gave him glimpes of the divine before plunging him into incapacitating depressions.  Time and again, he gambled away what little money he had, which forced him to write many of his major works under the threat of debtor's prison.<br />Professor Kjetsa is particulary good at tracing the development of Dostoevsky's  political and religious ideas.  The young idealist who almost dies for his ties to international socialism  becomes a xenophobic reactionary.  The casual nihilist turns into a devout Christian, though one who continually wrestles with doubt and unbelief.<br />Dostoevsky is revered as a thinker and a religious prophet, but first and foremost he was a popular novelist.  While Professor Kjellstra does a fine job of mapping the contours of Dostoevsky's ideas as they play out in the novels, he spends less time on literary issues.  Dostoevsky's ability to bring ideas to life through powerful scenes and unforgettable characters, and his refusal to force tidy conclusions about the big issues of faith, love and redemption are what make the novels so fresh and compelling to the modern reader.  One could wish for a deeper examination of what makes him novel as a novelist, such as his stylistic innovations, the inticacy and pacing of his plots, and his masterful use of narrative voice.<br />Another quibble is the way Professor Kjetsaa rehashes the rumors that Dostoevsky may have been a pedophile without taking a stand on the issue.  The approach to this issue is voyeuristic, adds nothing to the debate, and is in striking contrast to the well-reasoned decisiveness with which the author addresses the other major controversies in Dostoevsky's life.<br />Otherwise, this fine book will broaden your understanding of the world Dostoevsky moved in, increase your sympathy for the obstacles he overcame on his way to world acclaim, and expand your appreciation of his magnificent literary creations, characters who embody the failings and aspirations that reside in us all.makes him novel as a novelist, such as his stylistic innovations, the inticacy and pacing of his plots, and his masterful use of narrative voice.  <br />Another quibble is the way Professor Kjetsaa rehashes the rumors that Dostoevsky may have been a pedophile without taking a stand on the issue.  The approach to this issue is voyeuristic, adds nothing to the debate, and is in striking contrast to the well-reasoned decisiveness with which the author addresses the other major controversies in Dostoevsky's life.  <br />Otherwise, this fine book will broaden your understanding of the world Dostoevsky moved in, increase your sympathy for the obstacles he overcame on his way to world acclaim, and expand your appreciation of his magnificent literary creations, characters who embody the failings and aspirations that reside in us all.	2003-09-22
US	51873758	R1EJTELI7KCK7I	0809095211	504768367	Dogs and Demons: Tales From the Dark Side of Modern Japan	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Cry the Beloved Country	As he did in Lost Japan, his study of traditional arts and crafts, Alex Kerr gives us deep insights into his adopted country.  But this isn't a celebration of Japan and its traditions.  Instead it's a lament for a country that's lost its way.<br />The root cause, according to Kerr, is a self-serving bureacracy that sits above the governance of politicians and the people.  Combine this with a rigid education system, a conception of modernism frozen in post WW II priorties, and a population conditioned to acceptance and obediance, and the result is a mediocre society mired in its self-created fictions.  Balance, creativity and a sense of proportion have lost out to manga, Hello Kitty, and out-of-control construction projects.<br />This book is an antidote to all the uncritical and idealized versions of Japan that came our way in the eighties.  It's an eloquent diatribe by a loving and angry uncle.  Some nuance is lost in Kerr's forceful prose, but his arguments are always insightful and thought provoking.<br />Whether you love, fear, or dislike Japan, this book is must reading.	2001-05-22
