US	51879310	R1YSPHYFSZH3OS	091629126X	892223408	Wilfrid Gordon McDonald Partridge	Books	5	32	33	N	N	I LOVE Wilfred Gordon!	No matter how many times I read \\"Wilfrid Gordon McDonald Partridge\\" by Julie Vivas, this book never fails to touch something deep inside my heart. It's about a little boy who lives next to a retirement home and his friendship with the people who live there. We get to see these elderly people in a little boy's eyes. And the thoughtful illustrations by Mem Fox show us quite clearly. (I love the illustrations) The touching and simple relationship between Wilfred Gordon and Miss Nancy is poignant to the core. Wilfred Gordon's desire to revive Miss Nancy's lost memory is sweet and absolutely delightful. It's a great story to share with children about memories and Alzheimer's disease. The world seems a much friendlier place through a child's eyes. Wilfrid Gordon McDonald Partridge is a fantastic book for all ages!	2002-03-07
US	51879310	R2AJZO8JQR2NE	0451526384	569473707	Persuasion	Books	4	7	7	N	N	persuade and persuadability	8 years has passed since the break up of Anne Elliot and Frederick Wentworth. Because of Frederick's lack of fortune and connections at the time, Anne was persuaded to reject his proposal. Now, he's back into town, with a fortune amassed at sea and still single. The feelings that were never quenched on Anne's side, are burning stronger than ever. And it has been turned upside down with (now) Captain Wentworth's renewed presence. Sure, she still wants him. But she's not sure if he does! Especially with the Musgrove sisters now in the picture. Not that she's lacking for suitors, but they just pale in comparison with Capt. W!<br />What a classic. Jane Austen, 200 years ago had the romance and chemistry right. Even for an ordinary girl like Anne who had let love pass by her once! Oh the suspense. You didn't know which Musgrove sisters Captain W was going to choose... let alone be sure if he even harbored any feelings for Anne! Or was Anne going to fall for the smooth and suave Mr. Elliot, her cousin? But all the waiting was worth it. Oh, the letter that he writes to Anne at the end is so worth it! I think the romance between Anne and Capt. Wentworth rivals any of the contemporary romance stories.	2001-10-23
US	51879310	R3789LMYE3IL6R	0830704159	203228726	Peace Child	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A True Story From a Real Life Missionary	This is the story of indigenous indian tribes of the Irian Jaya jungle, who lived in their primitive and simple ways... pretty much undisturbed by the outside world up until mid 1900s. The Sawis, the Kalengas and others have for hundreds of years have been practicing cannibalism and other rituals. Where they revere and worship men who've committed murder by using the method of &quot;fatten with friendship&quot;, the ultimate betraya lof their culture. This is the story of how they came to receive Jesus Christ and find salvation, through their own mythical legend.<br />This is also the story of Don Richardson and his family venturing out to the remote Iriyan Jaya islands to share the Good News to the indigenous people...  It is the story of a brave missionary couple (and son) that lived among these people to learn the customs and language to communicate with them. To earn and gain their trust so that these foreigners were able to use the language of these people in their own terms to share the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Understanding their way of life and language was crucial in establishing the open doorway to sharing the Gospel.<br />Don Richardson writes this story in the first person, capturing his amazing experience among the Sawi tribe. I once heard the author speak about this experience at a conference in 1999... the story was amazing when he told it and it is even more remarkable in writing.  The story is precious as the message he carried with him to this primitive jungle. I was deeply touched by this story.	2001-10-04
US	51879310	R3OLEFLAJ27DGR	0310213274	924964975	What's So Amazing About Grace?	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Grace: The Best Last Word	Yeah, so what exactly is so amazing about grace? As I explored this question in Phillip Yancy's book, I encountered many facets of areas that needed grace through his eyes. Mr. Yancy addresses political and social issues to personal and moral issues. Most of these were Biblically backed along with verses, quotes and such. Sprinkled with interesting anecdotes, personal stories and truly amazing tales of grace from real people, I thought the book was very enjoyable. And a great reinforcer of my beliefs as a Christian.<br />What I realized from reading this book is that &quot;grace&quot; is indeed the best last word and something that we all need and need to dispense. Mr. Yancy's tone was mostly critical to fellow believers and the church- and perhaps something that Christians do need to hear. (Something that I probably needed to hear, as well.) For people who are supposed to be full of grace, we believers don't necessarily show this aspect to the secular world. He addresses many tough and sensitive issues such as abortion and homosexuality... I didn't always agree with his views or his criticisms but overall, I thought he had a good point. We lack grace therefore the world lacks grace. But thank goodness we have a the best teacher, Jesus Christ, to instruct us in the ways of grace. To follow his example.<br />Bottom line of this book is that we need to be more like Jesus- to love more, to share more of the grace that we received from our Savior. Phillip Yancy pretty much summed it up in this simple sentence, &quot;Jesus declared that we should have one distinguishing mark: not political correctness or moral superiority, but love.&quot;	2001-10-04
US	51879310	R5XXCJ33QK5E6	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Absence of Nectar	As complex as the mind of an eleven year old could be, Alice tells us of her childhood terror... Simon Jester. She realizes immediately that he was beginning to slowly drain the nectar from her family. Who was her stepfather really and why was he trying to kill her and her brother? His frightening antics and his obsession with poison was driving her to live in paranoia. She even tries sacrificing her most sacred and special treasures to her god of the bush in hopes of getting rid of Simon. She also tells us of her older brother, Boone, and his famous but loony girlfriend, Persely Snow. And how these four people's fate was tied tightly to a deep and dark lake. And through them, Alice finds out how monsters are made and eventually realizes how hate and fear drive them. Kathy Hepinstall brings us Alice. A young girl who is about to discover herself and the meaning of loyalty from her simple family. The complicated love of her mother and hatred of a man. She brings us Alice with her smart-alecky mouth who brings humor even during the darkest moments. <br />From the very beginning, even from the short synopsis on the inside cover, the story of Alice Fendar's coming-of-age story captured me, bound me and reeled me in. The suspense of something deep and dark of Alice's tale in THE ABSENCE OF NECTAR got me from cover to cover.	2001-10-04
US	51879310	R20CCHOBLZ2U0G	0821771108	205819355	Making Over Mike (Regency contemporary romance)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Reveled over Making Over Mike	Amanda Connor is a woman of the millennium. She is always on the go, ambitious and president of a start-up company... who'd do just about anything to save her new business. (Oh, she also names variety of her clothes: get-a-promotion-suit, no-second-thoughts-bra and the breakup-bolstering-ensemble.) And Amanda desperately needed to ride on the hype of her Life Coach Lotto promotion to save her baby company.<br />And on the opposite side of the ring is Mike Cavaco. Somewhat temporarily down-on-his-luck, Twizzler chewing, taxi driving and genuinely down-to-earth guy. Who also describes himself as a man's man, a guy's guy, &quot;a John Wayne, Clint Eastwood, 'hand me that socket wrench I can fix this', pro-football watching kinda fella&quot;. (How can you not love this guy already?? And wait til you meet his 3 side kicks!) Who also happens to be the rather reluctant winner of the Life Coach Lotto. <br />The thing is, Mike doesn't want to get made over. He's happy the way he is. Or so he thinks! And as the unwilling Mike allows the transformation begins to take place (at times against Mike's will) he and Amanda also discover that really need each other. Of course, from the very beginning there was that &quot;mysterious and powerful attraction between&quot; them! But how far will Mike let Amanda do her thing? And will Amanda take no for an answer? But besides this refreshingly modern heroine and her macho hero, the story is funny to the bone and rather clever. The narration is just as comical and interesting as the dialogue! I'm happy to say I wasn't disappointed over my first Lisa Plumley novel.	2001-08-08
US	51879310	R2UEE5IBTHIA11	0440439884	909727634	Island of the Blue Dolphins	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A true heroine	What does it take for a 12 year old girl to survive alone for (18 years) after being left behind on a rocky island? Well, this is what happens to Karana (also known as Won-a-pa-lei) finds out. With only companions being a pack of vicious wild dogs, sea otters and some birds, she sets out to live as best as she could. Eventually, deep friendships develop with these animals and Karana's loneliness is abated (somewhat). Remembering what her tribe did in the past, she built shelters, found food and made weapons. Every day, she looks out to the sea wondering if the ship that carried her people away would come back for her. Yet, even in her successful attempt at survival, she longs for human companionship. <br />This is a beautiful and true story of &quot;The Lost Woman of San Nicolas&quot;... Karana's sheer will and determination to survive and her simple courage is told by Scott O'Dell and her adventures leap out from the pages. Her triumphant yet bittersweet story is wonderfully recreated.  I highly recommend it to young readers out there.	2001-04-12
US	51879310	R2ONPGA5D5RE56	0553274295	375745868	Where the Red Fern Grows	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a wonderful tale of a boy's best friends...	&quot;Where The Red Fern Grows&quot; is a emotionally charged story about a boy and his two dogs in the rustic Ozark mountains. After much yearning and saving (and through much tears and sweat) a young boy achieves his lifelong dream of owning two coon hound dogs. He appropriately names them Old Dan and Little Ann. Through adventures (and misadventures) in these mountains Billy Colman experiences love, friendship and undying loyalty. And through them comes a keeply touching bond that teaches the boy about life and death. <br />The earnest writing of Wilson Rawls takes you midst of these adventures and shares the love of a young boy's heart. I don't think I've ever been so deeply touched by a story about animals and their master. I don't think I can fully describe in words how touched I was through this book. All I can say is that this book is really really good.(Read it back in 5th grade and 15 years later, it's still good.) Truly, dogs are man's, I mean a boy's best friend... and they all must go to heaven.	2001-04-10
US	51879310	R271DSGYYSVCSF	0451526562	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Signet Classics)	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	A true classic stands the greatest test of all... TIME!	Even after many centuries, a classic novel can still be read, understood and charm a wide audience. For it teaches the reader about life and death, society and history through a magnificent story. &quot;A Tale of Two Cities&quot;, written in 1859, is one of those classics.<br />This magnificent story begins a year before the American Independence and several years before the French Revolution. As only Dickens can, he breathes life into the most bizarre, comical and memorable characters... such as Madame Defarge, Miss Pross, Jerry Cruncher and a slew of others. But in the midst of these people, the light shines on the few characters on which the story hence revolves. About Lucie Manette who has a true and beautiful heart that affects everyone around her and her aristocratic husband Charles Darnay, an ambitious man of French blood. Dr. Manette who after surviving 18 years in jail overcomes his weakness to rescue another. The light shines strongly upon Sydney Carton... a man who doesn't seem very redeemable in the beginning but who has a heart of gold who is capable of the greatest sacrifice of all for the woman he loves. It is these people whom Dickens chose to give life to during the grim and bloody French Revolution.<br />This novel is one of my most favorite of Dickens' novels. The hero and the heroine are rather complex and admirable characters. However, they are not necessarily the ones that win the sympathy and the heart of the reader... but suprisingly (and pleasantly) to the most unexpected of Dickens' character. On another note, the novel starts with a famous and recognizable opening line, &quot;It was the best of times, it was the worst of times...&quot; and ends with a very memorable line, &quot;It is a far, far better thing that I do, than I have ever done; it is a far better rest that I go to than I have ever known.&quot; To which I give great credit to the novel by Mr. Dickens.	2001-04-10
US	51879310	R3NFA88NSWWK3B	0440995779	879872706	The Witch of Blackbird Pond	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A classic!!	Katharine Tyler had no idea what waited for her when she arrived at Wethersfield, a Puritan settlement on the coast of New England.  Raised in Barbados, her free-spiritedness and impulsive behavior was feared and scorned by the local townspeople. The fact that she was different from them made the people uneasy... Her ability to swim basically cast her lot with the witches, since &quot;only the guilty ones stay afloat&quot;. Her friendship with the local Quaker pariah didn't help her situation. Misunderstood and unloved, she finds solace in the Blackbird Pond that strangely calls to her. Thus begins Kit's journey of friendship, romance and even persecution in the strange new place that was her new home. And through it all, finding ways to stay true to herself. <br />The Witch of Blackbird Pond is an oldie but a goodie... even after all these years, this book is still read by young adults everywhere. Well written and thoroughly entrancing, the story appeals to all ages. The plot contains not only a story of a girl's coming of age, but also the difficult social issues such as prejudice and discrimination. And the history of New England witch hunting, all placed with the backdrop of Connecticut's budding discontentment with the British crown rule. With wonderful characters like Hannah Tupper, Prudence Cruff, Matthew Wood and Nat Eaton, this book is hard to put down! The Witch of Blackbird Pond is still good for me now, as it was in 5th grade.	2001-03-31
US	51879310	R198342Q4PJKXA	0670892963	787771217	Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Love being a singleton!	Bridget Jones is back with full force in &quot;Bridget Jones: Edge of Reason&quot;, along with Tom, Shazz, Jude and of course, Mark Darcy. Giving us more insightful views to this Singleton's mind. She explores even more into the depths of her neurotic-ness and tells us of her frantic diary. Possibly even more entertaining than the first diary, which I enjoyed immensely... Helen Fielding writes with much gusto and female understanding that every woman is bound to relate to. And who wouldn't fall in love with Mark Darcy... perhaps even a notch sexier than the original version. Loved the new adventures that Bridget got herself into in this book. Edge of Reason isn't just for women, you know! This time, conveniently featured are international escapades including tropical islands, drugs and even prison!! Oh, and there is this bit about a personalized live bullet that causes quite a scare!  And, I was happy to read that Bridget somewhat achieves her goal of &quot;inner poise&quot; at one point... although, she seemed to have landed right back in square one at the beginning of the new year. Loved being with Bridget for two years in a row... hope Helen will give us some more anecdotes of Bridget and her friends! Oh... and Rebecca deserved what she got, finally!! Love happy endings for Bridget and her friends! The sequel is longer than the first but seemed twice as short... can't seem to get enough of Bridget. Can't wait to see how Colin Firth is going to play a modern version of himself in the movie!	2001-03-31
US	51879310	RQ4UJELWBJJSC	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A must read for every girl out there!	With terms like Singletons, Smug Marrieds and Whippersnappers... Bridget Jones tells us what it's like being a single woman in London in the modern times. Through her diary, the reader is able see right into her mind. Oh her obsession with counting things... like her weight, counting calories, cigarettes smoked, alcohol contents consumed among other things is hilarious with her special comments next to them. Her obsession with Mr. Darcy (especially the wet shirt bit) from Pride and Prejudice (along with her friends Shazz and Jude) Bridget has several interesting encounters with her own Mr. Mark Darcy. Stuck in a dead end job and doomed relationships- Bridget shares with us her every day life, which is filled with outrageously embarrassing situations to mundane everyday things. Although, with Bridget Jones, everyday mundane things are not really mundane at all! These daily entries are funny and absolutely engrossing!! And found myself laughing outloud not just because the heroine is a crack-up but because I was able to relate so much to Bridget! I actually noticed myself writing more like her in my own journal entries... I loved reading about a woman who got into more humiliating scrapes and embarrassing situations more than me! There really is a Bridget Jones in every woman. Can't wait to read Edge of Reason!	2001-03-31
US	51879310	R267PA7U0LPRUL	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The Poisonwood Bible is Bangala! (The good meaning!)	Meet the Prices from Bethlehem, Georgia and of Kilanga, Congo. They are a family of 6- Nathan Price is the Father with a mission. Literally. Reverend Price is a preacher with one goal in mind. To save the Congolese from eternal damnation. Preaching fire and brimstone, he is willing to risk just about everything to baptize the local people in the little village of Kilanga in Congo. And he is willing to risk his family and just about everything precious to him to do that. In the process, alienating him from everyone in town, including his own family- and changing their lives forever. But this book isn't told by him. This book isn't about him. Their tragic story is told by Orleanna Price, Nathan's wife and the four daughters- Rachel, Leah, Adah and Ruth May. In their feminine, maternal and sisterly view of their experience in Africa is different from each other as night and day. And their voices are just as different. They all tell of their broken family, tragic losses and new hopes. They unearth the pain that made them who they are in Africa. I loved Orleanna's regretful and aching voice, Leah's poignant and soulful heart, Adah's eclectic thoughts (forwards and backwards) and Rachel's ... well, Rachel is Rachel. And Ruth May's childlike innocence and playfulness in her part of the story. And in the backdrop is the turbulent civil unrest and Congo's fight for their independence that always seemed to be looming in everyone's narration. And through them, I learned more about the Congo independence than I ever did in World History 101. Barbara Kingsolver's writing is amazing and unforgettable. It's magical and powerful the way she is able to weave in 4 different points of views into one book and make them all flow into one novel. It was just perfect. <br />Although, most of the story takes place in Congo with strange sounding names and places... I felt like I was right there. Amidst the strange smells, the poverty stricken shanty neighborhoods and the life of Africa. ThePrices are the main characters that reach out to you in such deep and provocative ways. But secondary characters like Nelson, Pascal, Chief Ndo and even Methusalah also stand out and make their mark, too. It's been a while since an Oprah's Pick moved me to tears. I am recommending this book to everyone I know.	2001-02-17
US	51879310	R197UPGNRZOZLK	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	0	1	N	N	I loved it!	Is it possible to capture the most critical life lessons in one book? In less than 200 pages? Well, Mr. Albom was able to do it.  Morrie Schwartz was able to do it in short 14 lessons.  The important lessons Morrie taught Mitch in his last days was simple and definitely memorable. Definitely life-lesson worthy. Definitely true. And this book is a definite must read. Morrie, a son of a Russian immigrant, a professor, who loved to dance and create his own aphorisms was a great teacher. And reading this book, he taught me and reminded me what is really important in my life. The short and interesting chapters caught my attention immediately and emotional drew me into the book. It was easy to get sucked in and let my self be absorbed. These lessons... they are mostly lessons that we already know and should know but this book works as a reminder to those who get caught up in the ratrace called life. I couldn't help myself but cry at the end and I just didn't want the book to end. No wonder so many people had asked me, &quot;Have you read Tuesdays With Morrie? You should!!&quot; It really is worth the time to read it.	2001-02-05
US	51879310	RMNTFH2CCDMMF	0380811987	373698911	Rules of Engagement (Governess Brides, Book 2)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	This book sizzzzzzles!	The second book in the Distinguished Academy of Governess series, we meet Pamela Lockhart- another proprietor of the governess school. When she gets robbed at knife point of her hard earned money as a governess, she is desperate to make ends meet for her school. Enter Devon Mathewes, self absorbed Earl of Kerrich, desperate to repair his reputation as a rake. Or else, the Queen of England (who happens to be his good friend) may divulge his long kept embarrassing secret from his youth! All he wants is a well-behaved orphan boy with a dour middle-aged governess that won't try to seduce him. What he ends up with is a precocious little orphan girl named Beth with huge hopes and Miss Pamela- an infamous beauty with a past that has scarred her adult life. She's not too thrilled with his plans but she really had no other options. In order to get the job, however, Miss Pamela dones a disguise to fool Kerrich and everyone else in the household. Unfortunately, the disguise doesn't last very long and Miss Lockhart's situations changes... rather drastically. Amongst the unknown charade, Kerrich also tries to solve the mystery of the counterfeit money in his bank... all at the same time keep it a secret and appease his all-knowing grandfather.<br />What can I say? The things that go on behind closed doors for Devon and Pamela is... sizzling HOT! The attraction between these two is amazing. Why, Devon was even attracted to her when he thought she was just a plain and ugly governess!<br />Christina Dodd continues to bring us entertaining historical novels with original characters and new plots. In tradition to her other great books (such as &quot;That Scandalous Evening&quot; and &quot;Runaway Princess&quot;), Rules of Engagement is funny, heart warming and utterly wonderful. Kudos Ms. Dodd! I can't wait to read the third in the series!	2000-12-15
US	51879310	RCSDQ57TZ335D	0380811979	629386800	Rules of Surrender (Governess Brides, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Lady Miss Charlotte and the Beast	The most arrogant English man just happens to be the most lacking in proper English manners. Lord Wynter Ruskin just returned from decades abroad in El Bahar, where he ended up as a boy while trying to escape the painful memories of his father's death. And his mother, Lady Adorna, the Viscountess Ruskin, decides that a good governess is needed to reeducate his son and her two grandchildren. (Interestingly enough, we last saw Adorna as a debutante in &quot;That Scandalous Evening&quot;!) A granddaughter whose skills on a horse is rather... heartpounding and a grandson who likes to throw big knives at her pristinely papered walls. But Wynter, has other ideas when he meets the beautiful and well-born Lady Charlotte Dalrumple. Especially when he sees that she loves his children beyond the call of duty. His ways of the desert (more chauvinistic, than not) wins no points with the new governess but continues to push Charlotte's buttons in more ways than one. &quot;Lady Miss Charlotte&quot;, also known as &quot;Miss Priss&quot; to most Londoners, returns to her hometown to be with the Ruskins which holds painful memories, which she'd rather not rehash... with anyone. But she really needed this assignment to get her new governess school off the ground. And she couldn't afford to make mistakes with her first client.<br />The first in the governess series, this book is funny and entertaining. Wynter Ruskin is a refreshing and interesting hero with his El Bahar background. Which also happened to give Charlotte (and myself) some frustrations. And Charlotte and her ways with Wynter and children are utterly charming.	2000-12-15
US	51879310	R2FAJLU2GA85F4	0553569090	90615437	Surrender to a Stranger	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Totally engrossing historical novel!	What a passionate and exciting historical novel this is! I was completely engrossed by the dangerous escapades of Armand and Jacqueline. In the backdrop of the bloody French Revolution, Armand St. James wittingly and willingly rescues and transports innocent aristocrats from the guillotine in Paris. He puts his own life in danger countless times while trying to give life to those who are about to be executed. And one of the victims he rescues is Jacqueline Doucette, a spoiled but resilient daughter of the former duc de Lambert. Armand is instantly captivated by the courageous and spirited beauty who was about to be sentenced to death. Her only crime being that she tried to protect her family from the revolution and having aristo blood. Although the magical attraction and passion draws them to each other, forces beyond their control keep separating the two. Jacqueline's undying vow to seek revenge and Armand's tragic past that haunts him each day. <br />Ok, you'll have to read the book to find what happens and let me tell you all 485 pages are totally worth it. I wanted more. This fast paced book kept me up late at night and had me gripping the book throughout. Ms. Monk developed a wonderful heroine and a devastatingly sexy hero that merges from ashes of the revolution to be triumphant. With intricate plots that jump back and forth from France to England. And of course, I learned more about the French Revolution, from an aristocrat's perspective.<br />I did have a few questions after reading the book, however. Like, what ever happened to Marquis de Biret? Did Seraphine ever speak again? Did Antoine really die?<br />Overall, I enjoyed this book immensely and can't wait to read rest of her books.	2000-11-22
US	51879310	R2AJR03QEYAOQT	0380810484	244602149	How to Trap a Tycoon	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Loved Dorsey &amp; Adam!!	Who'd thought beauty and brains would mesh so well? Of course, it has gotten Dorsey &quot;Mack&quot; MacGuiness aka Lauren Grable-Monroe in quite a tight spot. By day, she's a Ph.D. student, teaching at a local university. By night, she's a smart-mouthed sexy bartender at Drakes, a men-only prestigeous club in Chicago. Well, the Lauren side of her wrote the book &quot;How to Trap a Tycoon&quot; which has been the talk of the town. And soon it has become the talk of the country. Of course, the Dorsey side of her can't seem to handle the fame and the notoriety that comes with it. And the Mack side of her is falling hopelessly in love with Adam Darien, a tycoon himself.<br />This story of multiple identities is funny and absolutely entertaining. Adam Darien is totally contemporary and sexy. And Dorsey is not only smart and funny, she also has the guts to pull off playing hot Lauren Grable-Monroe. Of course, that act doesn't last very long... but it's wonderful how both of the main characters evolve into their &quot;real&quot; self in the course of the novel. And who'd thought reading men's thoughts would be SO hilarious? (Well, me, for one...) The  secondary romance of Lucas Conaway (an employee of Adam) and Edie Mulholland (a fellow bartender at Drake's) is so sweet and satisfying! Both of their relationships carried an element of seriousness and a bit of the dark side but it is well balanced with wittiness and humor. And of course, being that it *is* a romance novel, the happy ending is just sweet enough.	2000-10-23
US	51879310	R2B1JDCXBZ5LO6	0380802317	746993091	Where Dreams Begin	Books	5	52	52	N	N	Who wants a gentleman anyway???	Lady Holland Taylor couldn't have found a man more different from her late husband, George. Zachary Bronson is definitely not a gentleman. Especially, by the ton's standards. Oh, far from it. And when Lady Holly finds herself wanting change, after three years mourning for her late husband, she decided to take Mr. Bronson's offer to turn him into a gentleman. (Of course, this is after that delicious episode in the balcony at the Bellemont ball...) However, Zachary Bronson is a common man, who rose out of the squalor and poverty using his sheer brute strength (and intelligence). And now, he is one of London's most affluent businessmen... and a bit feared, as well. He has just about everything but the respect that comes with blue-blood aristocracy. As Lady Holly tries to teach him manners acceptable with the London elite, this hardened man tries to win the beautiful widow's heart. No doubt, sparks fly from both directions and the reader will surely looser their heart...like this reviewer has. Zachary Bronson does clean up rather well.<br />In the processes of getting a good lesson on peerage titles and other appropriate manners for the aristocracy, I ended up enjoying this book thoroughly. Little Rose was utterly charming and her button string is too cute!! Elizabeth and Jason's secondary love story was brief but delightful. And Vardon, Lord Blake of Ravenhill is the next hero in the making! I've never felt such strong sexual chemistry between two characters and it was so rewarding when they finally gave into each other. I loved reading this book and I highly recommend it to any romance reader looking for an absorbing story. Seriously, it has a great ending. And needless to say, Zachary Bronson is a hero worth reading about.	2000-10-23
US	51879310	R1TE42XPXFLLBI	0380812983	3080186	After the Kiss (Avon Romantic Treasures)	Books	4	31	36	N	N	After this book...	You will fall in love with Karen Ranney!<br />I loved &quot;After The Kiss&quot;, just by the fact that this love story focused singularly and intensely on Margaret Esterly and Michael Hawthorne's relationship. There were no secondary romances to steal the scenes and no quirky side characters to distract you. Okay, so there is a great villain, but that just added shine to the gem that this book was. Their love story is like a diamond solitaire shining brightly and the supporting mystery plot (surround a certain memoir book) was the gold band that held the diamond up.<br />This is my third book by Karen Ranney and something about her writing draws me back everytime. Maybe it's her intense style, writing packed with so much emotion. Or her usage of short sentences that makes her passages lyrical if not poetic. Or it's the characters themselves. Margaret, a widow, without very much means of survival. Who's only chance to get any financial means is to sell the mysterious books that survived the deadly fire that killed her husband. And there is Michael Hawthorne, Earl of Montraine, who is drawn to this mysterious widow. Their love, as passionate as it is, is also very complicated.<br />I can't say that I liked the abrupt ending, but at least the lengthiness of the epilogue made up for the lack of other. &quot;After the Kiss&quot; is not only absorbing but also very interesting. Ms. Ranney never fails to incorporate rare historical facts in her stories. And her characters are most of the time, way ahead of their contemporaries. And this time, it's the mystic cryptography and Michael's mathematical engine. Great novel Ms. Ranney!	2000-10-23
US	51879310	R3I8TAKKUC6YGA	0380809176	870536543	Meet Me at Midnight (With This Ring, Book 2)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Vixen &amp; Sin... what a great pair!!	Victoria &quot;Vixen&quot; Fontaine is in the habit of finding herself in scandals all the time and hangs out with the London's rogue's gallery in her spare time. But she is also the darling of London! But she doesn't really know the meaning of scandal until she meets Sinclair Grafton, Marquis of Althorpe, also known as Lord Sin. Sinclair has got to be the baddest and the biggest rake of them all. He is the scoundrel of scoundrels, according to the recent rumors that's been flying about London. So, when her father and half of the &quot;ton&quot; find Vixen and Sinclair in a compromising situation in the garden, she has no choice to marry him to save her family's face. <br />Sinclair Grafton returns to London after being away for 5 years in the continent. He returned to claim his title, left by his dead older brother. He acquiesces to marry to further his hidden agenda... at first. Although, he plays the dangerous rogue to the tilt, he doesn't fool Vixen. She soon finds out that he was an ex-spy for the crown in Paris and he is back to solve the murder of his older brother's death. Though, passion between them ran high... they certainly didn't expect love!<br />Vixen's wild ways with her knack for getting into trouble and Sinclair's determination for finding his brother killer brings a rather interesting love story between them. I also loved how Ms. Enoch weaves a quite a bit of the Lord and Lady Kilcairn into the story. Lucien just gives me the shivers! Of course, so does Lord Sin. *wink*  This was a high enjoyable book with wonderful characters!	2000-10-06
US	51879310	RB6BRFLRE8L69	1551666103	672867913	Mistress (Mira)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fiery!!	For one night in her life, Kathleen Bridget O'Leary, a maid servant whose mother milks cows for a living, becomes Cinderella. Her quality rich friends decide to wager an innocent bet that they could transform this ordinary servant girl into a glittering lady whom everyone would mistake her for a rich heiress. And they pull this masquerade off perfectly! And imagine, when Dylan Kennedy, the most eligible bachelor on that side of the Mississippi pays exorbitant amount of attention to her! There is a twist though... Dylan turns out to be a scheming con-artist looking for an heiress to rob her wealth. Oh and did I mention that amidst the plot there is a raging fire that made history in 1871 which changes their lives forever? This catastrophe that causes them to marry impulsively and Dylan and Kathleen find out there are consequences greater than they ever imagined.<br />Will Kathleen ever find her dreams of being a rich and respected lady of society? Will Dylan change his ways? Well, you'll just have to find out!<br />I really enjoyed this story! Since reading THE HOSTAGE, I've been dying to find out what happened to Kathleen and I'm so glad she got such a great story! And with such a sizzling hero! I love the good hearted (but a bit misguided) Dylan! And who would have thought the trading of wheat could be so exciting?? My heart was thumping as if I was watching a suspense movie, during the scene where they were waiting for the wheat prices to go up and up and up. I loved the ending, too. It was so sweet and poignant. A complete 180 for Dylan and Kathleen. Susan Wiggs writes magnificent story lines with real characters, whose personalities you can peel away layer by layer. It seems she digs deeper than most authors these days. Thank you Susan.	2000-10-06
US	51879310	R23GS5CVR0GUQZ	0553582216	27526243	By Possession (Medievals)	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Entranced from cover to cover...	I've been waiting patiently for the release of BY POSSESSION after I read BY ARRANGEMENT and the wait has been worth it. (Only if all waiting have this kind of reward!) Madeline Hunter has to be this year's best new writer. Her writing is compelling, strong and very heartfelt. This is not one of those easy-going, lighthearted romance novels. It's brutal sometimes, it's painful to read at times and it's full of excitement. And, it's one of those books where you just have to stop and close your eyes to savor the moment.<br />Madeline Hunter is trying to corner the noble-born &amp; commoner love story market and I think she is doing that rather well.  The 14th century was never so romantic with a story of a knight and a bondwoman truly in love. Addis de Valence and Moira Falkner make what seems like an impossible relationship work. After all, she is the daughter of a bondwoman and he is a knight who's just returned from the Baltic crusades... who has also been presumed dead for the past 6 years. Of course, there is the bit about his ancestral home, Barrowburgh, which is Addis' by right, is over taken by the greedy and cowardly stepbrother in his absence. And while the country is in turmoil because of a weak king, Addis fights for the home that is his and a woman that makes him feel at peace. She fully realizes the consequences of loving this man, who owns her. And knows that she will lose her chance of a good marriage if she does. Her mind might be fighting against their relationship but her heart is saying something completely different. And I can't say much more because I'm going to be giving the plot away. Wow... this was a good book. I loved every part of it.s<br />Now, only if 2001 comes a little faster... BY DESIGN seems like another winner.	2000-09-28
US	51879310	RKAFL7QIO13V6	0380813165	416358899	A Great Catch	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Taliesen... the new Love Boat	Tessa Jardine has a slight problem. She just got hired as a First Mate on the glamorous passenger ship, The Taliesen. After working very hard to prove herself in a male dominated shipping industry, she can't let anything go wrong. Things get a little complicated when the captain of the Taliesen turns out to be Lucas Hall- who's got two strikes against him. He is not only her ex lover who ran out on her 10 years ago (without a word) but also a man who's been involved in the death of her brother and 4 other men in an accidental ship explosion. Of course, this is just the beginning. Things start to sizzle when unfinished love business creep up between Tessa and her captain, Lucas. Tessa does her best trying to fight off their mutual attraction but circumstances beyond their control seem to get in between them- making their affair even more complicated. Don't worry, there is a happy ending! This is a romance novel, after all! <br />Of course, I would have a difficult time fighting off a sexy captain like Lucas, myself. Lucas Hall is definitely A GREAT CATCH! Wow... what a STEAMY book! I haven't read a good romance with a kick in a while and I'm glad for the refresher! This book is worth every 5 stars given by the reviewers.<br />09/28/00	2000-09-28
US	51879310	R345J4Z3PAFSGZ	051512902X	14576775	After Dark (Ghost Hunters, Book 1)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	My first futuristic paranormal romance...	left me a bit confused at first but left me satisfied at the end. I was a bit lost in the beginning because I didn't understand the &quot;historical backdrop&quot; of the plot and had some difficulty following along. But sexy Emmet London and fiesty Lydia Smith's world was more than interesting enough to keep me reading. I love Emmet's sense of humor and was amazed at Lydia's resistance to him! I love it when two people have instant attraction in the story, it's so much more fun to read. Of course, once I got past the confusion, I really enjoyed the story. (Though, the book was too short!!) I did find Jayne Castle &quot;para-rez&quot; terminology like &quot;UDEMs&quot; and &quot;rezzed&quot; quite entertaining.	2000-09-22
US	51879310	R2T7FP1JCYKKLP	0609602497	542957512	On Mystic Lake	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A poignant journey	What a moving book!! Annelise &quot;Annie&quot; Bourne Colwater is a woman  who just woke up from a 20 year nap. Annie has been living life for other  people, devoting herself to her daughter and unfaithful husband. In the  process, the lost herself and became a woman that even she didn't  recognize. When her husband announces that he wants a divorce, she is  overcome with grief and retreats back to her childhood home, Mystic,  Washington. It is there that Annie encounters her old flame Nick and his 6  year old daughter who retreats into silence and who believes she is  disappearing into thin air, finger by finger. Nick was dealing (or  undealing) with his wife's death by alcoholism. In the process of helping  them heal from the death that Annie becomes whole again. And regains her  self identity. <br />Two despearate souls in need of love, acceptance and  healing ultimately find it in each other. Annie and Nick complement each  other so well, I love reading about their healing journey. I never wanted  two people to get together so much, as I did with Nick and Annie. The  heartbreaking story of Izzy is what made the book so poignant for me.  Everytime I read about this little girl, my eyes would uncontrollably water  and I couldn't help myself from crying. Coping with her mother's death and  slow healing that comes, is painful to read but it hits the heart directly.  &quot;On Mystic Lake&quot; deals with difficult issues, such as motherhood,  marriage, suicide, alcholism and divorce. But it is woven in the story so  well, it wasn't hard to digest.<br />This a great book and I *really* didn't  want the book to end!! I wish there was an epilogue!	2000-09-08
US	51879310	R2O8CKODDWILQ8	1551665921	135146320	Hostage	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The first in a fantastic trilogy!!	This is my first Susan Wiggs' novel and she got herself another fan! This  is a fantastic book, a book that sizzles. (Pun intended!) <br />Deborah  Sinclair is the heroine of \\"The Hostage\\", who isn't much a heroine in the  beginning. She was raised as a proper high-society young lady that was  thought not to be independent and no thought of her own. She was to become  an ornament to her future rich and prestigeous husband. And she was okay  with this, too... Until the fateful night of the Great Fire when Tom Silver  charged into their mansion home to kill her father. A revenge that called  for &quot;an eye for an eye&quot;. In the pursuing chaos following the  fire, instead of killing Arthur Sinclair, Tom ends up kidnapping Deborah to  the remote Isle Royale. <br />I loved this book right away because of the  lyrical writing of Ms. Wiggs' style. Her haunting and vivid writing of the  Great Fire of 1871, made me feel that I was write there in the heat of  things. The symbolic images of the fire and the ashes were reminiscent of  Deborah's now \\"ruined\\" life, which made her plight even more powerful. She  was now a hostage who lost everything and the world as she knew it was all  gone. In a strange and new place, she had to learn to cope and survive. To  become a woman that she was capable of. The reinvention of Deborah Sinclair  is triumphant and poignant. And although she becomes Tom's hostage, it was  inevitable that these two soul mates found each other. Helping each other  heal and deal with their tragedies. And Ms. Wiggs shows in Deborah and  Tom's story that even in the worst situations, love can find it's way to  the coldest places.<br />Her next book, &quot;The Mistress&quot; (the second  in the Chicago fire trilogy), promises to be just as exquisite (if not  more!!)! The excerpt in the back of &quot;The Hostage&quot; got me hooked!	2000-09-08
US	51879310	R26IEQMI9C5QC1	0918767024	177929418	Quick Quips and Quotes; 532 Things I Wish I Had Said	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	&quot;Stressed? Your cope runneth over&quot;	As the title of this book indicates, this small little book contains 532  quick quips and sayings. Some of them are serious and some of them are  quirky and most of them are pretty funny. Well worth quoting! The quoters  range from Carrie Fisher to Pennsylvania Dutch Sayings to anonymous  quoters. Oh and a few are from bumper stickers! And quite a few from the  author himself. And I wish I had said them, too. The problem with having a  book like this is that it makes me realize how unwitty I am...<br />But then,  I can always quote somebody else. :)	2000-09-07
US	51879310	R352F3BTMGJ1JB	0671034065	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	5	8	8	N	N	It's books like this that make reading worth my time!	If I could, I would give it 10 stars. No, wait, more than that. But then, things might get a little out of hand at Amazon.com. This has got to be THE  best romance thriller I read this year. It was so entertaining, I was  squealing, giggling, snickering and laughing out loud by myself! I was in  love by the time Sam Donavan in natural glory walked into Jaine's kitchen  view and fell even deeper for him then on! Sam is modern day Mr. Darcy...  just much more brawnier and tougher... and more confident, arrogant and  much more sexy! Of course, he does wear a police badge and tote a mean  looking gun. And this one sexy detective met his match with Jaine Bright...  his neighbor who just moved next door to him. A spunky and intelligent  woman who is trying to cut down on using fowl language! Who loves powerful  cars and speed as much as Jeff Gordon does. A modern Elizabeth Bennet,  maybe?  Definitely a woman who can hold her own! I love this heroine!  I  also adored all the secondary women featured in the story. Sam &amp; Jaine  create enough electricity and energy to power up a nuclear power plant...  and as a result they burn up the pages! Their verbal exchanges are funny  and witty and I loved every converation between them. <br />Of course, there  is a serial killer after Jaine and her three friends... because of their  list of requirements for a Mr. Perfect. What started out as harmless fun is  getting Jaine's friends killed! I also enjoyed this thriller portion of the  plot, it added plenty of excitement and suspense! Linda Howard knows how to  mix enough of romance and suspense to keep the story moving! This is one of  those books I could read over and over again and at 3 AM!	2000-08-30
US	51879310	R23S5PUAVV9Y5E	0785204792	56348712	Spirit-filled Life Bible	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	One of the most indepth &amp; informational Bibles ever...	This Bible came highly recommended to me and I couldn't wait to get my hands on it! This Bible is packed with so much information and commentaries  from world-famous (and not so famous) evangelists, preachers, pastors and  teachers. I love the in-depth commentaries and the Greek word translations  and also the &quot;Kingdom Dynamics&quot; and &quot;Truth in Action&quot;  charts. All these are simple study tools to help anyone looking to  understand the Bible more. I felt that I could dig deeper into the Truth. I  use it for QT and for reading in general. I enjoy reading these study tools  over and over again. Though, at first, I wasn't used to the New King James  Version, and it did take some time to get used to. But, this particular  Bible with a built in reference tool is very useful to any Christian who  wants to study the Word more.	2000-08-18
US	51879310	RR71GUPRJKOVC	0061097101	632958433	The Saving Graces: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wow! What a great book about FRIENDSHIP!	My friend shoved THE SAVING GRACES in my hands after her flight from New York City to San Francisco... She read this book in less than 6 hours and  she was trying to get just about anyone to read it. She loved it so much  that she even tried to make her boyfriend read this book. Although, he  wasn't too thrilled for a book that was about friendship between four very  distinct and memorable women.<br />And I'm so glad she did. I love this book-  about four women facing everyday (and some not so everyday) issues-  marriage, infidelity, children, parenting, sickness and even death. But  moreover, about friendship between women. Friendship that is real and  honest... which can be sometimes very sensitive. The Saving Graces are about  four women who has been in a women's group for the past 11 years. But, more  importantly, they are best friends. There's Emma, Rudy, Lee and Isabel.  They are so different from each other and flawed in their own way, yet they  complement each other just perfectly. <br />I think we all know someone like  The Saving Graces. *We* could be one of the Saving Graces. Patricia  Gaffney, puts all their good &amp; bad traits in such beautiful words... We  find out about their secrets and insecurities, their successes and  happiness... many of which, I was able to identify with. These women are  called The Saving Graces, but in fact, it is their willingness to love and  share the grace that they end up saving one another. And the flow of this  &quot;grace&quot; starts from the very beginning and till the very end.<br />I  felt that the honest truth about friendship is told in this book. It's a  wonderful read. And I definitely, did NOT want the book to end. I think I  was either choked up or actually in tears the last half of the book. Only  if we all had women's groups like The Saving Graces!	2000-08-16
US	51879310	R2C2RYUECJI0WD	0671525743	42968960	Night Whispers (The Paradise series)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Night Whispers...  Better than I expected!	Even before I picked up NIGHT WHISPERS, I was already a bit hesitant about this book. It didn't get stellar reviews as I was used to from Judith  McNaught books. Frankly, I was skeptical. It seemed that many readers were  not too pleased with Ms. McNaught's latest contemporary. <br />Ok, so it's not  WHITNEY, MY LOVE or PARADISE. <br />But, I give it 4 stars because this book  is still a good read. (And I've read much worse! Judith McNaught is one of  the best romance writers out there!) And it definitely has the Judith  McNaught flare! With diverse characters with interesting lives and  captivating plot, it's sure to entertain. With a devastatingly sexy hero  like Noah Maitland (a multi-millionarie business tycoon) and a squeaky  clean small town cop/detective Sloan Reynolds, it's hard not to get  absorbed. With reappearances by Paul Richardson (the FBI agent from  Perfect) investigating Sloan's long lost father (with a shady  background)... well, things are bound to get interesting. Noah's sister  Courtney will knock your socks off and the secondary romance plot is also  very interesting! I'm so glad Paul Richardson ends up with Paris Reynolds-  he deserved this after losing Julie Mathison in Perfect! Well, with Noah  &amp; Sloan's romantic chemistry sizzling on the pages, it's hard to put  the book down. (And, I think Sloan has to be one of my favorite  heroines!)<br />Oh and another thing, there's been talk that Jess &amp; Sara's  story will conclude in her next release WATER'S EDGE...	2000-08-16
US	51879310	R15VQUS8LFKSAP	0060909005	530217243	The Collected Poems	Books	5	10	12	N	N	&quot;I am not cruel, only truthful-&quot;	Sylvia Plath was a woman with a whole lot of emotions and masks. Sometimes labeled as feminist, a victim, a martyr and a suicide... whether she was or was not these things, she forged a compelling new voice in the l960s  America. (She did commit suicide in 1963.) She was perhaps ahead of her  time. She is one of the most read American female poets of the 20th century  and one of the most talented, as well. Her poems are the window to her  soul, an extension of her life. (Some have labeled her as a  &quot;Confessional Poet&quot;, along with Anne Sexton and Adrienne Rich.)  As great poets do, she has left us with a legacy of poems such as Lady  Lazarus, Daddy and Mirror.<br />THE COLLECTED PLEMS OF SYLVIA PLATH is a  collection of poems by Plath written between the years of 1956-1963. Also  included are 50 early poems written by Plath, titled Juvenilia. With an  introduction by her then husband Ted Hughes, who gives us some insights as  to who Sylvia Plath was as a woman, poet, mother, and wife. (There are also  notes on the poems at the end, written by Hughes.)<br />Plath's sometimes sad  and painful poems tell us, what kind of person she was. Her flaws show us  that she was indeed human and that her stark honesty touches me even more.  Her struggle with her inner demons is often what characterizes her poems.  The glimpse of her soul that we get through her poems, though it may have  come from somewhere dark, is brutally beautiful.	2000-07-06
US	51879310	R29OEB92N2S56W	0062737325	924516237	Brush Up Your Shakespeare!: An Infectious Tour Through the Most Famous and Quotable Words and Phrases from the Bard	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Whod thought we use so many phrases written by Shakespeare?	I wasn't all that sure until I read &quot;Brush Up On Your Shakespeare&quot; by Michael Macrone. Did you know that \\"Such stuff as dreams are made on\\" is from The Tempest, spoken by Prospero? Or \\"Wild goose  chase\\" was said by Mercutio in Romeo and Juliet? Well, now you do! This  guide to William Shakespeare's most famous words and classic phrases are  now in one entertaining guide. Listed by the phrases themselves, with  in-depth explanations as to its original meaning and how it was used back  in its time.  Macrone also includes in the back, some \\"Household Words\\"  coined by the famous Bard and \\"Faux Shakespeare: Phrases Often  Misattributed to Shakespeare\\". <br />People have used these expressions in  everyday interactions as well as in the media. The book is even sprinkled  with delightful illustrations by Tom Lulevitch. This guide is an easy way  to learn a bit more about Shakespeare, for just about anyone.	2000-07-03
US	51879310	R32X2K13D9WCST	0517202166	220390583	The Book of Positive Quotations	Books	5	41	44	N	N	This book is a treasure!	I love a good quote... love to use it at the end of my letters or emails... in newsletters that I write for my church. This book of quotes compiled and arranged by John Cook is thoroughly helpful and useful, and very precious.  Cook draws quotes from the Bible and also from the famous and the  not-so-famous people. You can find quotes from D.H. Lawrence to an old Zen  saying to Ovid to Sean Connery.  The quotes can be serious and sometimes  down right funny, too. The parts of the book are well-categorized into  sections such as \\"Peace of Mind\\" and \\"Living One Day At A Time\\". These main  parts with subdivisions with titles such as \\"Forgiveness\\", \\"Acceptance\\",  \\"Change\\", \\"Hope\\" and \\"Prayer\\". There are well over 60 subcategories (7000  total quotes!) which you can find a POSITIVE quote for just about every  feeling and emotion. These are also easy to cross-reference and find by  looking up the person quoted in the back of the book. I find myself using  this book all the time for several purposes. Sometimes I like to flip  through it for encouragement and for inspiration. It's one of my most often  used desk references. For any quotation lover, this book is a must. <br />Some  of my favorites from \\"The Book Of Positive Quotations\\":<br />\\"Aim at heaven  and you get earth thrown in; aim at earth and you get neither.\\"  - C.S.  Lewis<br />\\"Far away in the sunshine are my highest inspirations. I may not  reach them, but I can look up and see the beauty, believe in them and try  to follow where they lead.\\" - Louisa May Alcott	2000-07-03
US	51879310	R1SZYWPK621Z3P	0553582224	122122279	By Arrangement (Medievals)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	My best discovery in the year 2000!	What a wonderful historical romance novel! There are enough intrigue and mystery in this story to keep one guessing for days! Although all the twists and turns in the plot had me scratching my head for a while, it was  thoroughly entertaining. It is well written with great character  development and there are several HOT love scenes! :) <br />David de Abyndon  is not your average London merchant. He secretly does side work for the  King Edward which had earned him the beautiful and highborn Lady Christiana  Fitzwaryn. Which she doesn't know about. David is achingly sexy and  intelligent with a mind of his own. Although, her heart belongs to another  knight, the king forces Christiana into the marriage with David. Christina  may be young but she has enough wit and intelligence to give David plenty  of trouble. And against her will, she falls in love with David,  desperately. As the story unravelled, I was hooked...which led me to finish  this in the wee hours of the morning. I was deeply touched by the love  between the two characters.<br />The historical base seems well researched and  informational. I even checked out her website and there was a whole section  on the historical background on the book with interesting facts about real  characters that she based the book on! But the highlight of the book is of  course, the medieval love story of David and Christiana. Their story in the  backdrop of the war was engrossing and mesmerizing! This books is one of  the reasons why I love historical romance novels! <br />I cannot wait for for  her next book, By Possession!	2000-06-26
US	51879310	R27X9SPYDE4E64	0671795538	936532040	Perfect (The Paradise series)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	I can't get enough of this book!	I've read this book more than a few times already... but every time I read it, I am moved and fall in love all over again. I love Zack Benedict more and more and my heart goes out to Julie Mathison. These two are a perfect  match. They may not be the most perfect characters but they are perfect for  each other. Zack is an Academy Award winning actor and director who gets  imprisoned for a murder he didn't commit. When his escaped attempt goes  wrong, he has no choice but to take a hostage to secure his escape. Little  did Zack know that his beautiful hostage has a heart the size of Texas and  change his life forever. Julie Mathison may seem like the ideal daughter  and the perfect small town teacher but she has had to over come many  obstacles... and has tried so hard to keep her perfect life just the way it  is. It isn't until she meets her kidnapper, she finds what true love really  is.<br />This is such a beautiful story. Perfect is full of wonderful writing  and beautiful characters with lots of soul. And the intriguing secondary  characters add much pizzazz to the story. The romantic scenes in the  Colorado cabin are sizzling and the letter that Zack writes to Julie when  he was in Latin America is just... indescribable. This books takes you on a  roller coaster ride of emotions... which I enjoy going on over and over  again.<br />This is one of Judith's best works!	2000-06-23
US	51879310	R3PSTQRFH4OQ2W	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Amazing writing!	At first, this book didn't appeal to me that much. From the synopsis and the reviews, it seemed like there was too much narration and soul-searching... which sounded down right boring. But, it wasn't. Not at  all! The quiet but strong narration by Joey Becker was gripping and her  character drew me deeply into the book, I could hardly keep myself from  reading faster to see what happens next. I was hooked from page 1.<br />Sue  Miller writes about pretty ordinary people but who goes through  extra-ordinary circumstances that develop them into what they are. This  major and painful event had shaped and formed the characters into what they  had become. Layer by layer, the reader finds more about Joey's past and her  habit of running away from her problems which led to one focal point in her  life- which later draws two people together. All the characters in this  book have such distinct and unforgettable personalities, which she regards  with so much feeling. Miller weaves a poignant tale of love, betrayal,  faithfulness, family and forgiveness in writing so beautiful... compelling  writing of emotions which I was able to relate to universally. <br />Probably  one of the best books I've read this year and one of the better Oprah  picks.	2000-06-21
US	51879310	R3G86AH1OX8TYU	0380809168	580833959	Reforming a Rake (With This Ring, Book 1)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Leading the Rogues Gallery is...	The baddest scoundrel of them all- Lucien Balfour, the 6th Earl of Kilcairn Abbey. A blackguard to the core and with a terrible reputation is about to be reformed by a governess, whose reputation is about as bad as  his. Lucien is deliciously roguish and arrogant and it's gleefully fun to  see Alexandra Beatrice Gallant trying to reform him. Although, her real job  is to be a governess to Lucien's young cousin. With a foul scandal  following on her heels, the last thing she need is another scandal.  Alexandra is determined to make it in the world without any one's help...  after all, she's been on her own since 17...<br />(On a side note:  &quot;Sexy&quot; could not describe Lord Lucien Balfour... he is not only  HOT in the looks department but very charming and funny... As Alexandra  describes him &quot;tall, strong and magnificent&quot; like &quot;Greek  statues in the museum&quot;.)<br />With so many romance novels out in the  market, it's refreshing to read one with an interesting plot and characters  with witty dialogues... I loved Lucien's dry wit and Alexandra's quick  comebacks. It's good to see two stubborn and memorable characters carry on  a battle of the wits and a great interaction with lots of sexual  tension.<br />The question is... can this bad boy be reformed by a governess  who's been starched with propriety to the bone?<br />You really should find  out.<br />Julianne	2000-06-16
US	51879310	R2592HKZVIMM90	0425174816	437954918	My Fair Lord	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Pygmalion with a supernatural twist... utterly delightful!	As the saying goes, desperate situations call for desperate measures... And Caroline Wainwright was desperate. Very very desperate. She had one week til her 25 birthday to get married and find a husband. Otherwise, she  would lose her beloved home, Fallingate, to her greedy brother and  sister-in-law. As a last resort, Caroline seeks help from her father's best  friend, Uncle Teddy, who finds her a common thief to marry! She has no  choice but to marry Lucas Davin. You see, every suitor who has come to  court her and her wealth has been chased out by the ghost of Fallingate. It  seems that the legend of her haunted house is keeping her from getting  married.<br />Lucas Davin is a common thief caught for stealing a horse,  supposedly a dangerous and cunning rogue, if not charming to the bone.  Although, he may be crude on the outside... the antics of Uncle Teddy,  Caroline and her governess try to change him into a &quot;fair lord&quot;.  With the help of ghost of Lord Barrett Hamilton and some African potion  Uncle Teddy conjured up... things go smoothly... sort of.<br />This book was  far more entertaining than I had hoped. I could not put this book down!   Ms. Beard's writing is superb and the reader was easily able to see the  heart and the soul of the hero and the heroine. The suspense surrounding  the ghost and Lucas' past was well done and had me glued to the pages. It  was a wonderful book and I highly recommend this exciting novel with a  supernatural twist.<br />Julianne	2000-06-12
US	51879310	R9VC0J15VYR4H	0380804190	709286401	On a Long Ago Night	Books	4	22	22	N	Y	Great story	The story begins with near sighted Lady Alexandra Margaret Frances Honoria Pyne preparing for a ball that her father the Duke of Pyneham was throwing... Little does she know that two of her sworn enemies (two lovers  from her past) appear, trying to win her hand in marriage.  And she has  some problems to overcome...<br />Problem #1- The Honorable James Marbury (aka  Diego Moresco), the ex-fisherman who became a galley slave, turned  pirate... who just happens to be the long lost son of a viscount. Whom,  Honoria happened to have a passionate love affair in Algiers, although she  was kidnapped and bought by him. Who appears 8 years later to right the  wrongs that he committed...<br />Problem #2- Russell Derrick, a spineless and  greedy naval officer and Honoria's ex-fiancee from 8 years ago. When  Derrick's ship was overtaken by the corsair pirates, he was more concerned  for his own safety than Honoria's. Who only wanted to marry her for money  in the first place.  Then, cried off the engagement when there was any hint  that Honoria's honor was compromised. And now he's back to claim her  inheritance once again.<br />Problem #3- The Duke of Pyneham, who just happens  to be her father, who is bent on finding her a husband. Whether Honoria  wants one or not...<br />Well, throw these problems in and you find  strong-willed, stubborn and control freak Honoria in a situation that is  beyond her control. Who is blind to her own passion and love from a man  that she can't quite trust. <br />There are some entertaining and witty  dialogue betweeen Honoria and her suitors, and she definitely keeps them on  their toes. James and Honoria in the &quot;Rogues Gallery&quot; is one of  the funniest &quot;I love you&quot; scenes, if not classic for it is not  the most typical of reconciliation scenes. I found the hero utterly  charming, despite his pirate past (okay, it made him even more sexy) and  the heroine for surviving a terrible scandal and a broken heart.<br />Susan  Sizemore tells a clever love story, by fusing together the past and the  present... switching back and forth the two to build tension and mystery.  At times, I found the switching a bit tedious because I was so anxious to  find out what happened in the past and how it was going to end... and had  to peak ahead to appease my own curiosity. But still two days well spent  reading this fun and romantic love story.<br />Julianne	2000-06-10
US	51879310	RD2KOUZGJSS5P	038080736X	946460613	Bride for a Night	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	What would it be like to fall in love with Indiana Jones?	Okay, so Duncan Kincaid isn't exactly Indiana Jones but he is a sexy archaelogist with a dubious background bent on finding the next big thing... with the ability to &quot;talk&quot; to a dead mountain explorer  from the 19th century and blood for adventure. Cairo McKnight is a  beautiful single mother, trying to find out if her ex-husband of ONE night  is worthy of finding *her* secret...The secret that they had a son  together, whom Duncan knows nothing about!<br />Bride For A Night (I'm  beginning to really like Patti's titles...) is a fun and fast paced romance  between two people who were separated by unforseen circumstances after a  whirl-wind marriage of ONE night... Almost 5 years later, they are brought  back together by two things they share together... love for adventure and  their son.<br />What's so fun about this book is not only the blatant sexual  tension between the two characters but the fact that their passion from the  past consumes the present. And you can just imagine how *hot* their past  was. Also fun is the secondary love story between Graham Kincaid and Phoebe  McKnight... The story takes even more interesting turn because Graham is  Duncan's father, who is in a wheel chair due to a spinal cord injury and  Phoebe is Cairo's hippie aunt!<br />Okay, I don't want to give the rest of the  story away... So you're just going to have to read it for youself. You'll  enjoy this book!<br />Julianne	2000-06-06
US	51879310	RCPTWIIN3UH5D	0440206111	503791357	Through a Dark Mist	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	This book came highly recommended to me...	And I highly recommend it to you!<br />Like the ever seemingly present &quot;dark mist&quot; throughout the book, the sexual tension and thrill of the mystery permeates throughout the entire book. I was absorbed from the prologue of the book when we first find Lady Servanne de Briscourt jailed in a cold dank cell then rescued by &quot;Lucien&quot;. Although the prologue ends bleakly, the excitement begins and the reader slowly finds out the family secrets and betrayals of the Wardieu family. Lady Servanne is captured by The Black Wolf of Lincolnwoods on her way to her marriage to Baron de Gournay. Although she is kidnapped for the purpose of ransom, it is more than mere money that drives the heart of the The Black Wolf... Along the way of his plans for revenge, his heart is captured by the innocent lure of Lady Servanne. Thus unravels the story of &quot;heaven and the hell&quot; of The Wolf and Servanne. A story you will find totally engrossing and satisfying. You will not find one part of this book boring or slow, because there is a surprise at every twist and turn that puts thoroughly interesting spin on this tale of betrayal, revenge and love. (I could not help myself but peak ahead to see what was going to happen!)<br />Through A Dark Mist has the most spectacular climatic ending ever!  As a matter of fact, it is the most action packed romance novel I've ever read! It's like Mission Impossible 2 meets Robyn Hood! And, TADM also has the most interesting and scene stealing secondary characters ever!  Gil Golden with the grotesque scar in the shape of an N...Sparrow, the tree hopping dwarf and Alaric... the bishop, who really isn't. And who can forget the most evil villain and villainess ever written in the history of romance novels? Etienne Wardieu, the bastard son, of Bloodmoorand Nicolaa de la Haye, who seriously makes me shudder! <br />I just didn't get enough of the hero and the heroine... their scenes together were not enough! Although, the scenes where theywere together were hot and passionate enough to make up for the lack of their presence together... If I could change one thing about this book, I would hope that Lucien and Servanne have read more of them together, either spiting each other or loving each other... And make the book much much longer!<br />Needless to say, this has been the most enjoyable romance novel I've read in a while and I would highly recommend this book!<br />Julianne	2000-06-06
US	51879310	R3OJ4HKEPVZ229	0440206111	503791357	Through a Dark Mist	Books	5	46	49	N	Y	This book came highly recommended to me...	And I highly recommend it to you!<br />Like the ever seemingly present &quot;dark mist&quot; throughout the book, the sexual tension and thrill of  the mystery permeates throughtout the entire book. I was  absorbed from the  prologue of the book when we first find Lady Servanne de Briscourt jailed  in a cold dank cell then rescued by &quot;Lucien&quot;. Although the  prologue ends bleakly, the excitement begins and the reader slowly finds  out the family secrets and betrayals of the Wardieu family. Lady Servanne  is captured by The Black Wolf of Lincolnwoods on her way to her marriage to  Baron de Gournay. Although she is kidnapped for the purpose of ransom, it  is more than mere money that drives the heart of the The Black Wolf...  Along the way of his plans for revenge, his heart is captured by the  innocent lure of Lady Servanne. Thus begins the &quot;heaven and the  hell&quot; of The Wolf and Servanne. A story you will find totally  engrossing and satisfying. You will not find one part of this book boring  or slow, because there is a surprise at every twist and turn that puts  thoroughly interesting spin on this tale of betrayal, revenge and love. (I  could not help myself but peak ahead to see what was going to  happen!)<br />Through A Dark Mist has the most spectacular climatic ending  ever!  As a matter of fact, it is the most action packed romance novel  I've ever read! It's like Mission Impossible 2 meets Robyn Hood! And, TADM  also has the most interesting and scene stealing secondary characters  ever!  Gil Golden with the grotesque scar in the shape of an N, Sparrow,  the trip hopping dwarf and Alaric... the bishop, who really isn't. And I  can't forget the most evil villain and villainess ever written in a romance  novel- Etienne Wardieu the bastard son and Nicolaa de la Haye, who  seriously makes me shudder!<br />I just didn't get enough of the hero and the  heroine... their scenes together were so few! Although, the scenes where  they were together were hot and passionate enough to make up for the lack  of their presence together... Unfortunately, most of their time were spent  separately, suffering away for each other... If I could change one thing  about this book, I would hope that Lucien and Servanne have read more of  them together, either spiting each other or loving each other...<br />Needless  to say, this has been the most enjoyable romance novel I've read in a while  and I would highly recommend this book!<br />Julianne	2000-06-01
US	51879310	R10N26C6Z1NR5Q	0451522923	976358997	David Copperfield (Signet Classics)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	A Work of Masterpiece by the Master himself...	Charles Dickens is synonymous with literary masterpieces... And rereading this book again since high school has given me a new appreciation for this author's work. He brings us humanity at every angle... the goodness and  evil, love and hate, life and death is displayed in his writing. It's about  a young boy who overcomes being orphaned and child labor to become a man of  his &quot;own account&quot; and finding true love. Although, even after all  the trials and tribulations that he goes through, he still remains pure and  consistent. The good in him, since a young boy, remains in him as an adult.  David Copperfield is amazing. He brings us many memorable characters and  even more memorable scenes. Who could forget Mr. Micawber, Miss Betsy  Trotwood and Uriah Heep? And the scenes from his early childhood to all  that takes place in the Yarmouth seashore is unforgettable. More like a  memoir than a fiction, this pseudo autobiography must have been close to  the author's heart. Dickens himself said in his later years that David  Copperfield is his &quot;favorite child&quot;.<br />What a wonderful book.  I've cried and laughed, even though, I didn't think I would enjoy this  book. I was thoroughly absorbed from the very beginning and couldn't put  this book down. One of those books you should read once in your  lifetime...if not twice.<br />Julianne	2000-04-29
US	51879310	R24XCI7Y51HV7S	0440170796	114174650	The Promise	Books	5	84	90	N	Y	If you read ONE Danielle Steel book... Read this one!	I've been skeptical of Danielle Steel all my reading life. After all, she seems to release new books like how some people dish out business cards! I didn't pick up this book until a friend ranted and raved about it. Well, this book made me a fan. My first DS book and she won me over. This book  just got me by the heart and clamped on it. Wow, this is a wonderful book  and I'd recommend it to anyone, especially anyone who's weary of Daniel  Steel. I love the story of Nancy and Michael from page 1 and I was glued to  the pages till the very end. And I loved the ending, tears just sprung up  and rolled down my cheeks. I read the ending 5 times and wished it didn't  end.This is a truly a masterpiece.<br />Julianne	2000-03-24
US	51879310	R19P18O9CB6FT8	0440212308	442017075	Lions and Lace	Books	5	6	9	N	N	AMAZING!	Lions and Lace is an amazing romance novel. From start to finish Meagan McKinney writes and conveys such strong feelings of innocense, betrayal, love, confusion and lust... and not necessarily in that order. The hero, Trevor Sheridan is a brooding, dark and unforgiving character. But behind  this facade, he is just looking for love and acceptance. When he meets the  New York socialite Alana Van Alen, it's not only a case of convenient  revenge on the Knickerbockers of the NY elite but also a struggle against  the magnetic attraction. It is through their hurt and mutual pain that you  grow the know these characters and even hope that they overcome the  obstacles and recognize the love between them. It's an emotional roller  coaster.. Highly recommend. If you're looking for a light hearted sweet  romance... this isn't the book for you. But if you want a book to touch  your soul... this is it.<br />Julianne	2000-03-24
US	51879310	R7YUR9Z9W3YMB	0380807157	26838172	It Must Be Love	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	I love Rachel Gibson!	I really enjoyed It Must Be Love. I've been waiting for the release of this book since mid 1999 and the wait has been worth it. What happens when you put together a new-age aromatherapy inducing quirky heroine and a  modern day &quot;caveman&quot; undercover cop sexy enough to eat up? (He  can tackle and arrest me anyday!) You can find the answers in this book...  and you might even get good kharma after reading IMBL!<br />So what, if the  cover girl on the book doesn't match up with the heroine's descriptions!  Wait until you read about Joe's eyelashes being glued together with a  spritz of hairspray! It's a good read that will get you through with lots  of laughter... and even some heartaches. (But of course, with a happy  ending.)<br />Julianne	2000-03-17
US	51879310	R3V7QU0JJW36G8	0380790076	373986775	Simply Irresistible	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	I can't believe this is Rachel Gibson's debut novel...	Because &quot;Simply Irresistible&quot; has to be one of the better romance novels I read... even compared to some of the veterans romance writers. She might have written about flawed heroines and heros... but these characters have great chemistry (lotsa zing!) and they create some  amazing plots! Geogeanne Howard might be flighty and fickle but she is a  great heroine, nonetheless! Overcoming her faults and becoming a successful  businesswoman is a fantastic victory! And John Kowalsky's relationship with  his daughter was so sweet and cute, I just wanted to read more about them!  The part where he was playing barbie with her was the best!  (You just have  to read it...) And Lexie is the most BELIEVABLE little girl ever written in  a romance novel! She is just a doll!  The story of Georgeanne and John  might not be the most ideal but they overcome some very interesting  obstacles to finally come together! This is such a good book!  I HIGHLY  recommend it!	2000-03-05
US	51879310	RYFQ321FQLK1D	038080591X	82269701	My True Love (Loved, Book 2)	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Karen Ranney *knows* how to tell a beautiful story...	Karen Ranney *knows* how to tell a beautiful story... <br />And MY TRUE LOVE is no exception. Ms. Ranney weaves a magical tapestry about a Scottish young woman, named Anne Sinclair, who falls in love with a man... that  she's only seen in her mystical visions. Stephen Harrington, the Earl of  Langlinais, is the man of her dreams, literally. And when he finds her in  peril on his land, he not only rescues her but also finds himself  absolutely enchanted by her... Thus begins the love story so powerful and  unexplainable.. that even defies time and space. A tale of  true love that  began in MY BELOVED comes full circle.<br />I thought the story of Juliana and  Sebastian was good! And have been anticipating the release of this book for  months! And I surely was not disappointed by Karen Ranney. She sucks you in  by her lyrical and almost poetic writing, making you a part of the  character, plot... even the magical castle Langlinais. Ms. Ranney's words  and sentences are packed with so much meaning and depth... creating a  mystical ambience throughout the book. I enjoyed and savored Anne &amp;  Stephen's story. Two people in the midsts of a civil war, drawn by forces  they don't even understand. It's an amazing love story with a great  ending.<br />I can't wait to see what Karen Ranney comes up with  next.<br />Julianne	2000-02-22
US	51879310	RK96E71MWWC2W	0380808072	230937958	First Lady (Wynette, Texas)	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	Starting off the Millennium with First Lady!	When you are glued to the pages till 5AM... it's a sure sign that the book is not only captivating, but also, funny, poignant and throughly enjoyable. First Lady by SEP was the book that I was glued to! This romance novel is  an original story about a widowed First Lady, Cornelia Case, in search of  herself on the roads of suburbs of midwest in a disguise... and in turn,  finds herself a new adventure... and love in the form of Mat Jorik. <br />SEP  *always* present the most realistic (as realistic as they can get for a  romance novel) characters and dialogue and FL was no acception! From the  beginning, I was intrigued with the burnt out First Lady and Mat- who  seemed to be surrounded by numerous females from birth. When this two most  unlikely characters are thrown together in a beat up Winnebago named Mabel  along with a baby named Butt and a rebellious teenager... well, you can  just guess what happens. Or maybe not. Especially if the First Lady is in a  disguise! But the twists and turns in the book had me guessing what was  gonna happen next, the entire time. <br />The ending is wonderful and very  satisfying... Nealy goes for her goals and achieves it. With the help of  everyone around her. Marvelous! I was definitely impressed with SEP's  knowledge of past First Ladies facts and details of White House. I wonder  what she did for her research! <br />This gotta be the best road romance I've  ever read... And probably best &quot;I love you&quot; scene... which  totally made me cry. Tears rolling down my cheeks and all! Although, Dan  Calebow from It Had To Be You is my favorite SEP hero, Mat Jorik is giving  Dan a run for his money! Definitely a keeper! Can't wait for This Heart Of  Mine! By the way, if you've never read an SEP novel, start with this one!   You *can't* go wrong with FL!	2000-02-15
US	51879310	R2RKSNDCDZODIO	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Entranced From Cover to Cover...	I was mesmerized with Simon Basset, a hero who had to overcome a thoughtless, if not cruel and self-absorbed  father and a stuttering problem at a young age. You don't normally expect a historical novel to  open up with the hero's childhood story or how he is trying to overcome a  speech impediment! But then, The Duke and I is not your average boys gets  girl story. Simon returns from a 5 year hiatus from London (from his globe  trotting) when he learns of his father's passing. When he reenters the  London society, he finds that he is a prey to the mothers of the ton! And  the last thing he ever wants is holy matrimony with anyone! Of course, with  an interesting hero like that, you need an equally fascinating heroine!  Daphne &quot;Daffy&quot; Bridgerton is the 4th children of 8, who seems to  be an all-around nice girl and everyone's friend. In today's terms,   perhaps just &quot;one of the guys&quot;- who's still single after 2 years  out in The Season. Not the usual faint-of-the-heart girls you find amongst  the ton, of course!  She's got a sense of humor and wit that will make your  pants off! And not afraid to challenge the baffled duke! <br />They form a  fake alliance to thwart off baracuda-like mothers of the ton who want to  marry their daughters off the the duke and foppish silly nitwits who think  &quot;being a nice girl&quot; is the only trait necessary for a successful  marriage. What you get is two incredible characters who fight true love...  or at least try to. And what they find is that you can't fight destiny...  no matter how hard you try. Their chemistry is amazing! The dialogue is  hillarious most of the time and secondary characters are just endearing! I  was grinning and cackling to myself from the beginning to the end!<br />So  far, The Duke And I is my favorite Julia Quinn novel to date! I was trying  to find every possible moment to read this book! At the red light, between  emails, waiting in line at the movie theatre, etc!  After readingHow To  Marry A Marquis, I was a bit reluctant to to start on The Duke &amp; I... I  honestly didn't expect Julia Quinn to top HTMAM!  But she did. She  certaintly did and left me hanging for more... the sequel on  Anthony  Bridgerton's story! (The Viscount Who Loved Me... I love these titles!)	2000-01-28
US	51879310	R3TWF9QB1IQ1GG	0671032976	869998580	Whitney, My Love	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	IT DOESN'T GET ANY BETTER THAN THIS!	The phenomenal Judith McNaught made a rare piece of diamond (her book!) even more brighter and dazzling! The original WML was my absolute favorite historical romance... ever! But, the revised version has made me love it  even more. The subtle changes that she has made to her new book is barely  noticeable but enhances the whole story. The new ending is more than I  could ever ask for! Whitney and Clayton's story is so divine... I didn't  think it could get any better but Judith McNaught has made it even more  endearing and is a sheer epitome of a romance novel!	1999-12-03
US	51879310	RNFOK6GR02M7P	0380801213	267805194	Truly Madly Yours	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	One of the BEST in 1999!	Truly, Madly Yours is *truly* one of the best contemporary romance novels I've read this year! I thought the plot was original, the heroine spunky and wonderful and the hero sexy as hell! I'd recommend this book to anyone  who's weary of contemporary romances. The author makes you feel Delaney's  pain and confusion and even the hero's frustration... and at the end you're  oh-so-glad to have gone through the rollercoaster because the end is  oh-so-worth it!	1999-12-03
US	51879310	R1P3L3HD044FEZ	0380802600	167045660	The Proposition	Books	5	50	56	N	N	SUPER DUPER FIVE STARS FOR THE PROPOSITION!	The Proposition is my first Judith Ivory novel and I am sooooooo impressed! I read all the great reviews regarding this book and when I got  my hands on this book, I couldn't put it down! True to the reviews, this  book has great plot, great characters and a great ending! Loved Mick and  Winnie's story and I laughed so much! And there were many poignant moments,  as well! The sexual chemitry between the two were strong and powerful... I  just couldn't get enough of the two!Mick, even when he was  &quot;unpolished&quot; was sexy and totally charming! My heart just went  out to him! As for Winne, she was not the typical romance heroine but  strong and individual and beautiful in her own way. I just like Winne so  much! After I finished the book, I had to flip through it again to savor  the &quot;good&quot; parts. <br />If you're thinking about getting this book,  don't wait- GO GET IT NOW!	1999-12-01
US	51879310	R1ITZFSGE1PWJC	0380805901	89486572	My Beloved (The Loved)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Totally amazing!!!	The story between Sebastian and Juliana was poingnant and touching... and very sensual and erotic! It seemed like their love was star-crossed. I felt Juliana's ache and Sebastian's despair.  But their love was stronger than  just physical gratification... there were some downright erotic scenes that  had me totally absorbed! It seems like with the help of the inexplicable  and supernatural forces... these two people were given a second chance. And  I was cheering for them all the way through. I love this book, can't wait  to read others by Karen!!	1999-09-17
