US	51877630	RNLIEP0Y3AYGS	1595230017	212284058	A Patriot's History of the United States: From Columbus's Great Discovery to the War on Terror	Books	5	289	423	N	N	The Truth Rises Again	Being a baby boomer, i can still recall the American history contained in textbooks during my early educational years.  Over time, the liberals that infest our \\"learning\\" institutions have carefully crafted an American history more to their liking.  I have great sympathy for those being hatched out of primary schools nowadays as they have never been exposed to the positive side of our country, and its people.  the likes of another reviewer (MrG) are unfortunately misguided.  but don't take mine, or his, word for it.  give this tome a try.  its a labor of love as is any history book.  but its well worth the time it will take you to read it.  it brings things to life and is seldom dry.  don't let the title disuade you, you don't have to consider yourself a flag waving patriot to enjoy it.  it does however, present an alternative point of view to the propaganda our children are exposed to nowadays.  who knows, it may be the last book of its kind before the liberal indoctrination is complete.	2005-01-06
US	51877630	R3OA3SG2SVZ8X0	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Courageous	This book reads more like a legal brief than a non fiction book.  it is fascinating, none the less.  the authors make compelling arguments, drawing conclusions that are very much consistent with kerry's non-war record and personality.  i think the reviewers of this book are divided harshly by party lines with the liberal \\"1\\" stars on one side, those like me on the other.  neutral readers, i believe, will use the man himself as a litmus test for validity.  in other words, is this man capable of being a liar on this scale?  i think the answer is yes.  kerry has shown an extraordinary, if not unique, ability to be a chameleon.  the man truly has no base - no purpose or core.  he is slave to political currents only - that is his gift.  he is an opportunist who, throughout his political career has lacked the courage to take an individual stand on anything - in essence, continually taking the path of a political coward.  we are asked to believe that he, in his youth, was capable of heroism.  we are asked to take his word , and that of 2 or 3 boot lickers who served on his boat (and who now bask in the glory with mr. kerry) over the personal testimony of dozens of other brave soldiers who knew him, and of him.  this is irrational and illogical.  but then again, i am a conservative and am compelled to think with some degree of discipline.  it would be easier to be liberal and have the luxury of being emotional and unreasonable - in this case, branding the authors of this book as republican shills without concern or worry about the need for proving their indictments.  it is a sad state we find our republic in when a charlatan and a fraud could ascend to the presidency.  may God help us.	2004-09-04
US	51877630	RXTF2SW2SXP6X	0060731583	486983213	AMERICAN SOLDIER	Books	5	34	42	N	N	those who actually read this, will enjoy it	stayed up most of the night reading this story. very inspiring material. general franks makes me proud to be an american - and proud of our armed services. what a disgrace that, like the &quot;gentleman&quot; from Colonial Heights, Va, most who rate this book poorly will never actually read it. those folks, will return to their comics and anti war propaganda for entertainment and education, or worse yet follow the pied piper of lies, mikhail moore. this book is fast moving and extraordinarily interesting. written from a soldier's perspective, it certainly touched the heart of this ex-soldier.	2004-08-05
US	51877630	R3V25I5UY9L72A	0060763957	967480762	Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man	Books	5	14	31	N	N	Liberals love to hate	i discovered something fascinating.  most everyone who rates this book a 1 is a heavy metal loving, artsy type athiest.  you can tell this by checking out their other reviews and their wish lists.  what do you guys think about that?	2004-07-12
US	51877630	RZHYNNXOMPP2I	0060582510	541105320	Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism	Books	4	7	22	N	N	Same Ole Same Ole	its a shame that hannity gets so stuck in one gear.  i listen to his radio show fairly often and get a little tired of his rant.  his book mirrors his general style demonstrated on the radio and hannity 'n colmes.  apart from the annoying redundancy, the man has diagnosed america's ills with amazing accuracy.  as long as we have a president with the spheres to deal with overseas threats, we have the resources to deal with bad guys on the other side of the pond.  its the fifth column liberal termites and propagandists like franken and moore that will end up destroying our culture.  i'm disgusted at the sheer number of socialists who saw fit to review this book without even laying their dope reddened eyes on it. you're fortunate to live in a country where real americans are willing to lay it on the line to defend your right to protest all that's decent in america.  but, that's the irony of it, ain't it.  the founding fathers had a real sense of humor.  they created a document that ensured the rights of cannibals and scavengers dead set on destroying the very foundation of our constitutional republic.  thomas jefferson must be puking in his grave.  jfk, the last decent democrat, would turn in his donkey card if he was alive today.  he'd be embarassed to hail from the same state as turncoat, pseudo hero john kerry.  if there are any real americans left out there, wake up...buy this book, let it shock you into some type of action.	2004-02-20
US	51877630	R10UAI2APA4J90	0895261294	206337612	Legacy: Paying the Price for the Clinton Years	Books	4	9	18	N	N	valuable insight	i am sickened by the relentless attacks rendered unto our president.  granted, he is no angel, and certainly not the type of conservative i'd like to see in the white house.  i couldn't help but feel that much of the stuff he is accused of couldn't possibly have occurred on his watch.  a friend suggested that i read this book, pointing out that it does a pretty fair job of establishing that alot of the damage had been handed to him compliments of bill clinton.  you don't hear a good deal of defense of our president via the media - it seems that the major networks are either biased toward the democratic party or fearful of aligning themselves with bush, for some reason.  at any rate, i wanted to offer my two cents here in the hope that what i have to say might offset the ill-founded criticism appearing in the review area.  i feel that many of the individuals (see review dtd 1-9-04 by lloyd) are not directing remarks toward the book per se, but rather are offering defense for the immorality/incompetence of the clinton administration.  or rather, projecting damning criticism of the author and conservatism in general.  said another way, the reviews, as a group, appear to form a soap box for stump speeches relating to political dogma, not the book at all.  this reader found the book facinating.  i feel that it offerred just enough detail, not so dense that it was boring, yet enough documentation to satisfy the skeptics.  lowry does a good job of summing up the clinton presidency - and its lack of meaningful contributions to american history.  the reader will gain useful insight into how clinton's abandonment of the military and intelligence apparatus led to the disaster of 9/11.  without stooping to sensationalism, lowry convincingly argues that clinton &quot;took his eye off the ball&quot; during the lewinski affair.  clinton will go down as one of america's great politicians - his communications skills made him master of the lie.  but his legacy, as lowry points out, is not a good one.  it is the legacy of a coward, of a likeable buffoon.  no president in history did less, yet generated such affection.  give this book a try, i think you will find it puts things in perspective.	2004-01-28
US	51877630	R22YBBA8Q3O97J	0743226917	302007279	The Emerging Democratic Majority (Lisa Drew Books)	Books	2	6	47	N	N	fantasy of words	i agree with at least one other reviewer in that this book, despite its recent pub date, is painfully outdated.  either that, or the authors are engaging in delusional propaganda.  probably the latter.  this book is unashamedly biased.  only problem is that some potential readers, especially the young fresh out of socialist incubation centers (colleges), might actually believe it is factual.  a friend of mine recommended this to me, describing it as a primer for democratic political strategy.  i found it seriously lacking if that is the standard for which it is to be measured.  as a former democrat, i was/am ashamed when books like this are published.  they make me yearn for the days that honorable democrats were seated in federal office.  that all died with bill clinton.  these two \\"clintonista\\" authors, one an editor with the socialist \\"new republic\\" (i don't want a new republic, i like the one of the founding fathers), the other a senior fellow with another leftist think tank (century foundation), do a poor job in advancing their theories.  they are not reporting on a phenomena here, they are trying to CREATE reality.  bottom line here is that we need at least a two party system in this country.  and contrary to what these authors would have you believe, the democratic machine is broken down.  the dem coalition of the poor, minorities, and \\"fringe\\" elements can no longer do the job.  it is certainly time for both parties to engage in consensus building within the framework of our traditions and unique culture.  the current democratic party thrives on division and hate.  it prospers when sub-groups are convinced that a democrat is needed to \\"save\\" them from the evil conservative empire.  typically democratic base groups are starting to see this.  they want a real piece of the american dream and conservatives are beginning to convince them that its there for the taking.    you might consider reading zell miller's \\"a national party no more\\" - although crudely written in anecdotal style, this book actually describes the dying quivers of the once proud democratic party. he encourages what is left of it to direct itself toward inclusion, not exclusion and division for political gain. if you are a democrat, wake up.  explore the history of your organization and what true democratic statesman (j. kennedy, truman, etc) have done for this country.  don't be misled by the words of extremists such as these authors.	2004-01-17
US	51877630	R2Q7AJBMT4299	0785263535	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	5	18	31	N	N	wow, angry but right on target	few books that i have read will (have) generate as much controversy as this one.  glad i purchased it before i read the reviews.  they are clearly partisan, expectable with a work like this, i suppose.  i don't listen to much radio, so i cannot comment as to the redundancy of savage's written word vis a vis his radio broadcasts.  in the book, he does have the tendency to rant, but i find this in a lot of people who are passionate about their beliefs.  his detractors, found within these reviews, have a problem with weiner's (savage's real name) belief system, not his literary expertise. accordingly, they attack his values and integrity mostly, not the factual basis of his commentary.  one reader pointed out, as example, that his family immigrated to this country, yet he speaks out against immigration, pointing to an apparent contradiction.  i find none.  in the book, he clearly delineates between his view of (my language) good and bad immigrants.  he describes the influx of &quot;third worlders&quot; as a good thing gone wild.  its important to note that it is the abuse and excess that he finds problem with, not the concept of immigration in general.  those that actually read the book before attacking it in this section will recall his (humorous?) re-characterization of our &quot;melting pot&quot; as a &quot;chamber-pot&quot; because of the un-bridled influx of illegal and unsavory characters from all over, including nationals from countries that harbor harmful feelings for our country.  savage is, however, a walking anomaly/contradiction.  we need to look no further than where he chooses to reside.  a self professed conservative and apparent moralist has chosen, arguably, the most liberal birthing ground in the united states.  perhaps savage is a masochist or someone who wants a steady supply of story material for his books and radio shows, either way, i'm surprised he doesn't walk down 'frisco's streets on allergic overload.  all kidding aside, his daily exposure to what this american city has to offer has surely helped mold his view of our country, and continues to fuel his aggravation.  anyway, getting back to the book, read it.  whether you are conservative or liberal, it will put you in the &quot;savage nation&quot; mindset.  its guaranteed to make you ornery and, more importantly, make you think about the direction america is headed.  contrary to what some reviewers have stated, the type of course we are on is not inevitable.  unfortunately, nor is it desirable.  seeking to preserve america's culture, language and the integrity of her borders does not necessarily label one a racist.  like most others (savage included), i recognize that, other than our native american friends, there is really no such thing as an &quot;american&quot;, our nation being base-populated primarily by a european &quot;starter kit&quot;.  like savage, i do, however, see the attractiveness, and desirability, of preserving our undeniable heritage and the things that make us uniquely american.  what's being sold as &quot;multiculturism&quot; does not necesarily lend itself to that.	2004-01-08
US	51877630	R2R78IL6ZC7T9E	0785263314	938109041	Scam: How the Black Leadership Exploits Black America	Books	5	20	28	N	N	Courageous	i salute Reverend Peterson for the raw courage it took to write this critique of &quot;minority&quot; leadership in america.  from my perspective, his comments are right on target.  for a somewhat prominent, black man to take aim at these individuals is extraordinary in my view.  for no other reason than this, the book is worth reading.  its a quick, interesting read - not too dense, thankfully.  as another reviewer noted, it is a little redundant in places, demonstrating how passionate the author is, i think, in seeking social reform.  the chapters on j. jackson and a. sharpton are worth the price alone.  he adds credibility to what many others have said for years - that these two, and others like them, profit from continued racial unrest.  a great political and social commentary from a &quot;stand-up guy&quot;.	2003-12-12
US	51877630	R21JQTRDAK4506	0974537616	164161415	A National Party No More: The Conscience of a Conservative Democrat	Books	4	15	23	N	N	a fair warning	as an ex-democrat, i began this book with healthy curiosity.  my expectations were set, based on television interviews with the author. at the time i purchased this book, there were only a handful of reviews posted on this website.  those that were published populated the extreme ends of the spectrum, not uncommon with political works such as this.  like others, i enjoy reading the better reviews, as they often can do you some good, if the author is honest in his/her appraisal of the work in question.  as a way of guaging reviewer credibility, i often visit personal pages to get a feel for how well rounded the reviewer is (read honest and fair handed).  before i submit my humble comments about this book by zell miller, let me offer this comment to the potential reader.  be wary of 1 and/or 5 star summaries that act as political rants rather than literary reviews.  i firmly believe that, for example, only a handful of liberal &quot;one star soldiers&quot; attacking miller in these pages have read more than the table of contents of this book.  you visit their &quot;about you&quot; areas and find that, despite being &quot;died in the wool&quot; al franken and michael moore boot-lickers, they have purchased (we hope) hundreds of dollars in, as described by one acidic reviewer, &quot; right wing wing-nut&quot; commentaries, only to trash the authors in &quot;objective&quot; amazon reviews.  in the eyes of this individual, these are hatchet jobs veiled as book reviews.  anyway, i digress.  this book makes a significant political statement.  the author considers the democratic party his home, and refuses to leave it.  i believe he is sincere in his hope to reform the party - or better stated resurrect it.  zell miller wants to return to the &quot;good old days&quot; when democrats were strong on moral issues, national defense, and represented the interests of working people.  he obviously abhors the hijacking of the party at the hands of left wing extremists who, in the name of freedom and the constitution, pander to fringe minorities at the expense of what some call &quot;the silent majority&quot;.  although he does not clearly relate it in his book, one cannot read this attentively without seeing strong comparisons with our nation's cultural direction and that of our northern neighbor - canada.  the moral and economic decay, so vividly seen in today's democratic party, has already infected the canadian &quot;everything goes&quot; society that smacks of socialism.  don't get me wrong, i thoroughly enjoy the canadian people, they are among the friendliest and warmest i know. but they have been dis-served by their goverment.   we should learn a lesson from their political experiment.  miller sees the handwriting on the wall.  he tells us so with brutal honesty.  he admits his mistakes and attempts to honor party loyalty.  liberals have invited him to leave, treating him as an unwanted stepchild.  but honest demos like him and, to some extent, young cuomo, love what the party used to stand for and despise its current state. he salutes the two party system and desires a vibrant, competitive alternative to republican conservatism.  in case its not clear at this point, i agree with the author.  the donkey party of today represents minority interests and those of large metro areas, but seemingly ignores those of us, like me, who live in the south, drive a pick up truck, work hard for a living  (sorry mr. dean, i don't have a confederate flag in my rear window)and, without embarassment, am proud to be an american.  why, as some reviewers ask, hasn't miller left the party?  loyalty, in a word.  this man has a bunch of it and it sets him apart.  four stars for this book.  miller could use a better editor to help him stay on point.  his anecdotal style is homey and, largely, interesting.  but it adds some cloudiness to the points he seeks to make.  all and all well worth the price of admission.  if viewing the democratic presidential debates don't point out the obvious, read this to find out why today's demo party is out of touch and out of answers.  as miller exposes, its a national party no more.  that's why, despite the exhortations of those like begala, carville, moore, franken and the rest of the elitist herd, the proud and useful Democratic party is eroding.  zell miller seeks to fix that before its too late.	2003-11-08
US	51877630	R3UBC56S0ZMWY2	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	2	4	16	N	N	hilarious	quick, easy read here.  this is the kind of book you can read when you're half asleep.  micheael moore is a funny guy.  so many of the political books (right or left) are written by serious students of politics and history, you know, intellectuals.  not here.  the class clown has written another very humorous satirical work.  only problem with this one relates to integrity.  moore apparently wants you to believe that he knows what he's talking about with this serious subject matter.  check his credentials, he certainly does not.  if you're interested in entering left wing hysteric theater, step right up and buy your ticket.  this one is a perfect example of the genre.  its laughable, rarely accurate, loaded with venom and, above all, acidic in its negativity.  moore seldom wanders to the reality side of things, and doesn't disappoint here in that regard.  there's no such thing as terrorism, everybody should hate bush and lets elect another entertainer (oprah) to the white house.  only in america can an undereducated, ignorant bore make millions peddling this kind of material.  for you liberal types, bon apetit.  i await your five star ratings and \\"unhelpful\\" votes.	2003-10-13
US	51877630	R25E0QC68BJ7CZ	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Book is funny , Franken is funny, no truth here though	Franken has emerged as a liberal savior.  what the american socialists cannot get accomplished via the airwaves, they get spoken through the written word of the likes of Big Al, the comedy writer.  5 star reviewers featured on these pages have found their political hero on the scrap heap of burned out celebs. this book is hilarious - precisely what it is meant to be.  folks who find political or historical significance in this satirical garbage are searching hard for a hero.  keep looking.  franken is an undereducated, minimally talented comedian.  badly failing with his previous junk-books, he has hit the long ball with this one, primarily due to the \\"top gun\\" on his hate list (bill o'reilly) and the publicity that he brought this book.  if your looking for the truth, pass this one up, if you're looking for farsical, fictional comedy, i give it three stars.  p.s.  don't be persuaded by the self-deluded individuals who applaud franken's truthfulness and legitimate research.  he is a self admitted liar who has employed a team of northeastern, liberal educrats to craft his own great lie.  as a former democrat, i am embarrased at the hateful, mean spirited spew that is coming from the likes of messrs franken, moore, etc.  the once proud (and impactful) democratic party is in the ditch.	2003-09-11
US	51877630	RZ8M5OQIZX1SF	0761517855	19341665	Tales from the Left Coast: True Stories of Hollywood Stars and Their Outrageous Politics	Books	4	24	30	N	N	have a good laugh	anecdotal in style, this book is hilarious.  although the subject matter is considered serious by some, the author had alot of tongue in cheek when he assembled the stories included in this book.  this one is very entertaining and hirsen takes no prisoners.  his treatment of the subject, as noted above, is humorous but he does drive home some serious points as well, essentially asking the question:  why do poorly educated, ill informed celebrities capture the attention of the american public when political issues are discussed?  i suppose the concept of &quot;hero worship&quot; comes to mind when seeking an answer to this question.  anyway, don't expect too much from this book.  it is entertaining and, hopefully for some, enlightening.  i enjoyed it, although i hoped it would go a little further in explaining why such a huge portion of our hollywood icons are left wing extremists.  i've always sought an answer to that question.  the author attempts to answer this question early on, but through satire, not taking the matter too seriously.  he hints that the real reason lies with guilt, proposing that celebs follow the party of the &quot;disadvantaged&quot; and &quot;poor&quot; out of guilt because they have aquired wealth and stature with limited skill, limited education and limited justification for doing so.	2003-07-09
US	51877630	R3J6I5T6RU80CR	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	5	4	12	N	N	Good Reading	my college journalism prof once told us that for a book to have value it must entertain, provoke, or educate.  this one, in my view, does all three.  i devoted 45 minutes to reading the 400 or so reviews listed for this book.  based on the volume of interest, one certainly cannot say that coulter's latest does not provoke.  with this one, the lines are clearly drawn, with all the one star liberals on one side, the 5 star conservatives on the other.  i should admit up front, that i am no different.  well, maybe so in one small way.  as a small boy, i can vividly recall my father's reaction to \\"mccarthyism\\".  a veteran of WWII, he was certainly no fan of communism.  his opinion of the destruction of senator mcarthy's credibility and reputation certainly mirrored this \\"anti red\\" bent.  a modestly educated man, he was well read, and followed the hearings with great interest.  he, LIKE MANY OTHERS, believed that the senator was on to something.  anyway, getting back to the book, i will avoid the usual\\"intellectual\\" arguments pro and con, staying away from the pseudo intellectual jargon (i.e.  vitriolic, diatribe, histrionics, etc).  i choose rather to appeal to the potential buyers curiosity concerning the history of our country after WWII, during the cold war and beyond.  as pointed out in numerous articles, journals and and \\"right leaning\\" books, textbooks relating to american history have been \\"sanitized\\" by authors who are almost invariably liberal in their political beliefs.  the fact that academics are inordinately liberal is well chronicled and normally left undisputed.  today's youth, if they are familiar with the phenomena of \\"mccarthism\\" at all, are firm believers in the story line that he was not only evil, but incorrect in his pursuit to root out communist sympathizers. ann coulter is not the only author to point out that the Democratic administration of the times was riddled with communists.  in fact, as her sources point out, this fact was well known and accepted at the time.  i believe that, in its essence, her book is factual and her suppositions correct.  many of her detractors suggest that her sources are poorly researched or misquoted.  others suggest that, due to her conservative leanings, she has outright lied.  i would ask, though, how would they know?  few historians or individuals intimately familiar with the facts write these reviews.  the accusors are guilty of precisely what they accuse ms coulter of, jumping to conclusions without factual basis.  this is a good book.  it gives the reader a fair assesment of the mcarthy era and, i'll say this controversially, a good idea of how the democratic party got to where it is today.  i'm not suggesting that all democrats are unpatriotic.  i know this to be untrue.  i do suggest though, that a minority of democrats (those residing in the left extreme) call the shots and have socialist leanings.	2003-07-09
US	51877630	R16YILPB3ZUKS2	0895261758	235490882	When I Was a Kid, This Was a Free Country	Books	5	1	4	N	N	interesting and provoking	I think that those who rate this book low are missing Liddy's point. Granted, this is a colorful individual who takes some liberties (a key word in GL's vocabularly) with generalization..........but, he simply is yearning for a return to simpler times. Times when federal legislation was less restrictive and some measure of individual freedom still existed. those who so passionately oppose this book are still cranky because Al Gore lost the election. Loosen up, accept this for what it is - the examinations of a thoroughly frustrated conservative \\"cowboy\\" who would, if he could, turn back the clock. Liddy's critics, shown here and elsewhere, incorrectly label him as a racist, sexist and narrow minded criminal. they over-simplify a complex individual. his methods have not always passed the litmus test of legal statute and social more, but you have to give him credit....he has walked the walk, and demonstrated his convictions and patriotism, something that most of his detractors (i believe) have not done. if you take offense at Liddy's words, perhaps you've never truly enjoyed freedom in the uniquely American sense. but, everyone's entitled to their own view, this is the US of A, ain't it?	2003-07-01
US	51877630	RYT81E8DR4A7Y	0785263535	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	4	1	8	N	N	provocative stuff	few books that i have read will (have) generate as much controversy as this one. glad i purchased it before i read the reviews. they are clearly partisan, expectable with a work like this, i suppose. i don't listen to much radio, so i cannot comment as to the redundancy of savage's written word vis a vis his radio broadcasts. in the book, he does have the tendency to rant, but i find this in a lot of people who are passionate about their beliefs. his detractors, found within these reviews, have a problem with weiner's (savage's real name) belief system, not his literary expertise. accordingly, they attack his values and integrity mostly, not the factual basis of his commentary. one reader pointed out, as example, that his family immigrated to this country, yet he speaks out against immigration, pointing to an apparent contradiction. i find none. in the book, he clearly delineates between his view of (my language) good and bad immigrants. he describes the influx of &quot;third worlders&quot; as a good thing gone wild. its important to note that it is the abuse and excess that he finds problem with, not the concept of immigration in general. those that actually read the book before attacking it in this section will recall his (humorous?) re-characterization of our &quot;melting pot&quot; as a &quot;chamber-pot&quot; because of the un-bridled influx of illegal and unsavory characters from all over, including nationals from countries that harbor harmful feelings for our country. savage is, however, a walking anomaly/contradiction. we need to look no further than where he chooses to reside. a self professed conservative and apparent moralist has chosen, arguably, the most liberal birthing ground in the united states. perhaps savage is a masochist or someone who wants a steady supply of story material for his books and radio shows, either way, i'm surprised he doesn't walk down 'frisco's streets on allergic overload. all kidding aside, his daily exposure to what this american city has to offer has surely helped mold his view of our country, and continues to fuel his aggravation. anyway, getting back to the book, read it. whether you are conservative or liberal, it will put you in the &quot;savage nation&quot; mindset. its guaranteed to make you ornery and, more importantly, make you think about the direction america is headed. contrary to what some reviewers have stated, the type of course we are on is not inevitable. unfortunately, nor is it desirable. seeking to preserve america's culture, language and the integrity of her borders does not necessarily label one a racist. like most others (savage included), i recognize that, other than our native american friends, there is really no such thing as an &quot;american&quot;, our nation being base-populated primarily by a european &quot;starter kit&quot;. like savage, i do, however, see the attractiveness, and desirability, of preserving our undeniable heritage and the things that make us uniquely american. what's being sold as &quot;multiculturism&quot; does not necesarily lend itself to that.	2003-07-01
US	51877630	R2PW41L9NKLS98	0785263535	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	4	3	9	N	N	provocative stuff	few books that i have read will (have) generate as much controversy as this one. glad i purchased it before i read the reviews. they are clearly partisan, expectable with a work like this, i suppose. i don't listen to much radio, so i cannot comment as to the redundancy of savage's written word vis a vis his radio broadcasts. in the book, he does have the tendency to rant, but i find this in a lot of people who are passionate about their beliefs. his detractors, found within these reviews, have a problem with weiner's (savage's real name) belief system, not his literary expertise. accordingly, they attack his values and integrity mostly, not the factual basis of his commentary. one reader pointed out, as example, that his family immigrated to this country, yet he speaks out against immigration, pointing to an apparent contradiction. i find none. in the book, he clearly delineates between his view of (my language) good and bad immigrants. he describes the influx of &quot;third worlders&quot; as a good thing gone wild. its important to note that it is the abuse and excess that he finds problem with, not the concept of immigration in general. those that actually read the book before attacking it in this section will recall his (humorous?) re-characterization of our &quot;melting pot&quot; as a &quot;chamber-pot&quot; because of the un-bridled influx of illegal and unsavory characters from all over, including nationals from countries that harbor harmful feelings for our country. savage is, however, a walking anomaly/contradiction. we need to look no further than where he chooses to reside. a self professed conservative and apparent moralist has chosen, arguably, the most liberal birthing ground in the united states. perhaps savage is a masochist or someone who wants a steady supply of story material for his books and radio shows, either way, i'm surprised he doesn't walk down 'frisco's streets on allergic overload. all kidding aside, his daily exposure to what this american city has to offer has surely helped mold his view of our country, and continues to fuel his aggravation. anyway, getting back to the book, read it. whether you are conservative or liberal, it will put you in the &quot;savage nation&quot; mindset. its guaranteed to make you ornery and, more importantly, make you think about the direction america is headed. contrary to what some reviewers have stated, the type of course we are on is not inevitable. unfortunately, nor is it desirable. seeking to preserve america's culture, language and the integrity of her borders does not necessarily label one a racist. like most others (savage included), i recognize that, other than our native american friends, there is really no such thing as an &quot;american&quot;, our nation being base-populated primarily by a european &quot;starter kit&quot;. like savage, i do, however, see the attractiveness, and desirability, of preserving our undeniable heritage and the things that make us uniquely american. what's being sold as &quot;multiculturism&quot; does not necesarily lend itself to that.	2003-07-01
US	51877630	R14FQV45YFVBRU	0895261758	235490882	When I Was a Kid, This Was a Free Country	Books	5	4	5	N	N	interesting and provoking	I think that those who rate this book low are missing Liddy's point. Granted, this is a colorful individual who takes some liberties (a key word in GL's vocabularly) with generalization..........but, he simply is yearning for a return to simpler times. Times when federal legislation was less restrictive and some measure of individual freedom still existed. those who so passionately oppose this book are still cranky because Al Gore lost the election. Loosen up, accept this for what it is - the examinations of a thoroughly frustrated conservative \\"cowboy\\" who would, if he could, turn back the clock. Liddy's critics, shown here and elsewhere, incorrectly label him as a racist, sexist and narrow minded criminal. they over-simplify a complex individual. his methods have not always passed the litmus test of legal statute and social more, but you have to give him credit....he has walked the walk, and demonstrated his convictions and patriotism, something that most of his detractors (i believe) have not done. if you take offense at Liddy's words, perhaps you've never truly enjoyed freedom in the uniquely American sense. but, everyone's entitled to their own view, this is the US of A, ain't it?	2003-07-01
US	51877630	R2RRAJ0RERMJR4	0743222245	376327637	Living History	Books	2	14	20	N	N	Outstanding examination in self delusion	i borrowed this book from my sister.   she fancies herself a democrat and hillary fan, but could only make it through around 70 pages.  i'll let her write her own review, but the reason she so generously dumped this volume on me is that she couldn't stomach the content, or the writing style.  she normally reads novels, and fast paced, mystery types at that.  its not difficult to figure out why she didn't enjoy this one....its boring.  it does have some redeeming value(s) however, and that's why i rated it two stars. i enjoyed this, not unlike the typical person enjoying a train wreck, primarily due to curiosity.   if you are a political science buff, like myself, you should read it for educational purposes.  it is a brilliant study in \\"spin science\\".  h's team of ghost writers have created a virtual test tube laboratory of \\"spin\\" (formally termed \\"propaganda\\"). examples of impactful \\"spin mastering\\" are abundant in bookstores, especially since the coming and passing of the clinton presidency.  minimizing the impact of presidential scandal, as clinton fans would quickly point out, is an art that has existed for over a century.  this was not unique to the clinton regime.  the level of it, however, is a different matter.  the clintons (including the author) became so expert in rationalization and fact twisting that they elevated General Public \\"duping\\" to a remarkable level. this book is a bold example of this phenomena.  mrs. clinton's hired writers appear uninterested in plausability, bashing through the pages with falsehood after falsehood.  uniquely, they do this with perceived immunity, knowing full well that the clinton sub-culture has already forgiven bill and hillary for all of their transgressions anyway.  at any rate, the book is an exceptional example of how the right book, at the right time, with the right audience can actually re-write history.  i believe that is the purpose of mrs. clinton's effort, she seeks to sanitize a rather untidy past.  this lengthy volume should also prove fascinating to those in the mental field(s) as it clearly illustrates two in-vogue concepts; self delusion and denial.  the senator from new york, once again brings these normally benign leanings to a new level.  i'll wrap this up.  this book is a great read for the above reasons.  you cannot read it without experiencing amazement. what a great coincidence, it being released at the same time as the summer's other great fantasy (H. Potter).   i rate it only two stars, though,  because, as the title suggests, it's supposed to be about history.  there is little history in this.  as other reviewers have pointed out, many much better than i, this is fiction. but give the former first lady her due, she spins her tale with no reservation, with no apparent sense of conscience or respect for accuracy. you have to salute her for her brashness and outright boldness.  you don't see that every day.	2003-06-30
US	51877630	RRG7WZHMQ24HD	0761516638	286761738	The Death of Right and Wrong: Exposing the Left's Assault on Our Culture and Values	Books	5	26	38	N	N	Amazing	I give this book 5 stars primarily due to its shock value.  bruce's postions are not unique.  but this level of illustrative detail, offered by a woman with her background is extraordinary.  i read this one in one sitting.  this book makes the current degradation of our society real...up close and personal.  the examples she uses will sicken you.  as noted above, what makes the content so impactful, at least for me, is that tammy bruce is not a &quot;liberal&quot;.  her background is quite the contrary.  she does, however, see a disturbing trend toward the &quot;de-sensitization&quot; of the american populace - de-sensitization in terms of moral issues.  or, as the title puts it...........the death of right and wrong.  this work is all about the efforts of a vocal and energetic few to destroy america's sense of conscience and decency. she clearly shows how a group of so called &quot;minorities&quot; seeks to bring social values down to their level.  they begin, unfortunately in the school system.  she vividly points out how our history and heritage are being carefully &quot;erased&quot; to pave the way of a new way of thinking, one that can only be described as completely amoral. of all the books i've read in recent years, this one had the most profound impact on me.  the subtitle reads...&quot;exposing the Left's assault on our culture and values&quot;.  although i am a conservative by nature, i disagree with that.  the evil doers that she describes are only a small paricle of what we know as the &quot;liberal&quot; democratic party.  historical democratic (party) values are being used and perverted by the groups she so specifically identifies here.  although bruce does not offer a specific remedial plan of action, i sense that she would prefer it if the legitimate &quot;left&quot; would expel both these destructive activists and the concepts they promote.  i can certainly agree with that.	2003-06-12
US	51877630	R1RGT5XTIKMVP5	0060508248	545561106	Perfect I'm Not: Boomer on Beer, Brawls, Backaches, and Baseball	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Perfect He's Not	this is an interesting read, but if i had my &quot;druthers&quot;, i would have preferred it if DW had left out the early chapters describing his youth, minor league experiences, etc.  its important to remember that this is not social commentary, its a behind the scenes book about baseball - written by, arguably, the most colorful individual on the diamond today.  if you like books that explore the &quot;wild side&quot; of sports life, you won't be disappointed here.  if your after one that chronicles  the day to day grind of an average ballplayer, replete with all the detail - this one isn't for you.  also, this isn't a &quot;yankee&quot; book, so if you're a &quot;pinstripe&quot; hater you'll enjoy it too.  don't expect much more than the meandering recollections of one of baseball's throwback heroes.  you'll also learn that, despite the publicity that depicts wells as a party animal supremo, he is also a disciplined competitor who has endured his share of pain and hard work.	2003-06-03
US	51877630	R3OKXMNW3I6S1L	047132339X	102141159	Investing in Real Estate, Fourth Edition	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Magic Bullet	this book is a slightly updated version of edition number three.  not much was changed - either version scores a 5 in my book.  like many others, i have invested several hundred dollars in RE investment &quot;how-to's&quot;.  i seriously believe that you can obtain more usable, practical (read truthful and usable) information from this single volume than all the others on my bookshelf.  you won't find a more comprehensive, relavent work on the subject.  beyond content, its also written in a manner that invites understanding and complex subjects are dealt with in just the right amount of detail.  i strongly recommend this work as a basic primer on making a living via real estate investing.  the author(s) obviously take their subject matter seriously - offering a high degree of integrity with this book.	2003-06-02
US	51877630	R19LP0HES11H55	0374125023	937296219	The Clinton Wars	Books	2	9	42	N	N	Excellent Fiction	Let me start by owning up to something. i didn't finish this book. somewhere near the 2/3 point, like popeye, i decided \\"i had all i could stands cause i couldn't stands no more\\". i should give blumenthal some credit though. the book was entertaining in its absurdity. the way he crafted and spun his tale was actually quite remarkable. he appears delusional, but given his background for licking clinton's boots, that would be the wrong conclusion to jump to. if you think that the body of literature published since clinton's impeachment - oops, i meant retirement - has been too critical and you're looking for something more balanced, keep looking. this volume is comedic in its defense of the former POTUS. i think i understand his motive in crafting such an inaccurate perception of clinton though. forgive the analogy, but like john the baptist, he prepares the way for Mizz Hillary. in order for her to be received favorably as a presidential candidate in the future, someone has to rewrite history. someone needs to erase the record of criminal activity, to trivialize mr clinton's personal indiscretions. enter mr blumenthal. the book is a disgrace to anyone who prioritizes truth. the tone and intent of this one clearly illustrates the current state of the once proud Democratic Party.  historically known for meaningful activism, like this book, since the clinton administration(s), it has now reduced itself to self pandering and rationalizing.  if you are a clinton lover, conned into believing that he was the poor man's liberal savior, this one's for you. you'll love it. essentially, the author does an excellent job of \\"sanitizing\\" the clinton years.  unfortunately, if you have been waiting for a factual, fair analysis of his presidency, keep looking. this one misses the mark.	2003-06-02
US	51877630	R3PMZMUSGI3FIT	0060977728	855973047	The Shadow University: The Betrayal Of Liberty On America's Campuses	Books	4	10	12	N	Y	informative but difficult	a great book when it comes to content.  this author is surely an expert on the societal decay of the american university system.  kors knows his stuff and tries to make sure he imparts his passion and knowledge to the reader.  if you enjoy meticulous detail and raw density, you will love this book.  if you like your knowledge in smaller bite sizes that are easier to digest, you might be better off with D'Souza's short book on the same general subject.	2003-05-21
US	51877630	R3J6KIOFW90QMT	0895262746	350670764	Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton	Books	5	15	38	N	N	learn what true evil is	shame on me for just getting around to reading this book by barbara olson. i was reluctant to buy it because i have already read her other clinton book (Final Days). the liberal feminists and liberal immoralists who herein bash this book should do so with more honesty. it is shabbily researched? no. written with generalities? no. dishonest? no again. heavily biased? certainly. how can one anlyze/evaluate the amoral individual known as hillary clinton and not be biased? granted, she is intelligent, shrewd, clever and cool under pressure. one must give her that. as this book (and most others) reflects, though,  she is essentially a tactician with her strongest attribute - her ability to exploit her constituency base.  anyone who carefully considers olson's portrayal of \\"mrs president\\", should surely feel fear - for what will we unleash if we place her on a national stage with the power of the presidency at her disposal. i understand the tendency for some (victim mentality) to identify with her.  she has certainly received her share of challenges. but the author has done an admirable job of depicting the \\"other\\" side of HC, one that she observed at close range.  if you love the clintons, and readily forgive their disregard for our heritage and traditional moral values, i could not convince you of the merits of this book. if the verdict is still out for you, read it. don't be dissuaded by the few who criticize this author unfairly. i believe many who have so passionately trashed this book have done so without reading it. they do it only out of loyalty to clinton and his bride.	2003-05-21
US	51877630	R3M657JFNMSAQB	1574883844	185726581	Mickey Mantle: America's Prodigal Son	Books	5	8	8	N	N	meticulously researched	if this is your first interest in a book about &quot;the mick&quot;, castro's work is a great place to start.  i wish this one was available before i read the other three in my collection.  what sets this book apart, is the journalistic integrity that is apparent with it, and the avoidance of sensationalism just for the sake of it.  it is complete with dozens of anecdotes told by those that knew mantle - a feature that undoubtedly serves to make it more interesting than standard biographical non fiction.  it is obvious that the author, seeking to be impartial, had a love for the player and the person.  if you are looking for a mantle biography that is an honest portrayal of mantle as a ballplayer with the dynastic yankees, and as a man with weaknesses, look no further.  if you are a american history buff, you will also enjoy how santos weaves events of the day and the flavor of the time into the flow of his book.  all and all a great read.  i highly recommend it, especially to those who, like myself, grew up &quot;worshipping&quot; the yankees of the 50's and 60's and, of course, their centerpiece center fielder from oklahoma.	2003-05-20
US	51877630	R1SFMHSOH15BS5	076156375X	398927034	Why the Left Hates America: Exposing the Lies That Have Obscured Our Nation's Greatness	Books	5	12	22	N	N	Go ahead 'n read this.  it won't hurt you	don't be fooled by the left wing whiners who gave this book 1 star.  sure, when compared to other books of similar ilk, its a bit redundant.  yes, flynn get up on his soap box throughout much of this book.  and yes, he paints his picture from a conservative perspective.  yes to all of this.  but the book hits the long ball if you're a proud american tired of being told that your a member of a sick society.  if you're a middle-ager trying to figure out what the heck happened to the good old days when we were respected among nations, look no more.  buckle up......read this along with michael savages new book and joseph farah's &quot;taking america back&quot; - and it'll have you donating to the libertarian party and doing volunteer work for george w.	2003-05-12
US	51877630	R2KQWJVLNZXTMN	1891799096	785800233	The Dark Side of Liberalism: Unchaining the Truth	Books	4	4	5	N	N	a good primer for new conservatives	For starters, i must admit i am more a conservative than i am leftist oriented. most of the non-fiction i read (18-20 per year) relates to politics. and usually the ones i enjoy are written by \\"right wingers\\". i especially enjoy those authored by ex-liberals who have grown disenchanted with liberal ideology (or at least how it is being practiced in our day and age). accordingly, i enjoyed this pioneer effort from phil kent. for those considering purchasing it, i recommend it highly if you are looking for a quick read that covers most of the \\"dark sides\\" of current liberalism. what i liked most about this book, is its readability and reasonable level of detail. it appears that kent, rather than seeking mind numbing density, chose rather to touch on most of the more interesting areas of the liberal \\"meltdown\\" - immigration policies, foreign policy/degradation of our military, deterioration of our educational system, media bias, taxation and spending, etc. don't want to ruin the story for anyone, but his chapter \\"where do we go from here\\" is worth the book cost by itself. kent's three pronged plan for resurrecting America is simple and timely: rebuild the American character, return to honoring our heroes as a way to sustain our national heritage, a return to a lawful nation with the judiciary system enforcing law - not making policy. overall a good, if not overly simplified work that will get your mind stimulated.  it will make you think about the Democratic (read liberal) party of old, the one with a worthwhile agenda consistent with our traditional ideals and values. hopefully the author's optimism is not misplaced.  he believes that we can return to the USA of old. the one known for its character, principles and accent on individualism.	2003-05-10
US	51877630	R38APHAXRQREM6	0785263926	310069768	Taking America Back: A Radical Plan to Revive Freedom, Morality, and Justice	Books	5	29	40	N	N	Passionate commentary	the author is obviously convicted in his beliefs.  you have to score him a 10 on his passion for \\"revitalizing\\" our country.  what sets him apart from other conservative authors is the fact that, based on his thoughts, he has not yet been \\"spoiled\\" by the liberalization of america and, most importantly, he has a specific plan for cleaning up uncle sam.  his notions are radical, especially to a near numb american populace who have been desensitized to moral indecency and political outrage.  if you want to sicken yourself, get yourself some strong coffee and read this and tammy bruce's new book (the death of right and wrong)back to back over a three day stretch.  it would take some strong shields to walk away without a strong concern for what kind of country we are preparing for our children.  its amazing how these two authors - so perfectly opposed in most every other way - agree so symetrically on social/political matters.  anyway, i digress.  this is a good read.  it entertains as it frightens.  it is a provocative critique of our society's decay.  farah says its not too late to get us back on track.  i'm more cynical, but i hope he is right.	2003-05-02
US	51877630	R25GC3BGGAGWRH	0785263535	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Sometimes we read to be entertained	few books that i have read will (have) generate as much controversy as this one.  glad i purchased it before i read the reviews.  they are clearly partisan, expectable with a work like this, i suppose.  i don't listen to much radio, so i cannot comment as to the redundancy of savage's written word vis a vis his radio broadcasts.  in the book, he does have the tendency to rant, but i find this in a lot of people who are passionate about their beliefs.  his detractors, found within these reviews, have a problem with weiner's (savage's real name) belief system, not his literary expertise. accordingly, they attack his values and integrity mostly, not the factual basis of his commentary.  one reader pointed out, as example, that his family immigrated to this country, yet he speaks out against immigration, pointing to an apparent contradiction.  i find none.  in the book, he clearly delineates between his view of (my language) good and bad immigrants.  he describes the influx of &quot;third worlders&quot; as a good thing gone wild.  its important to note that it is the abuse and excess that he finds problem with, not the concept of immigration in general.  those that actually read the book before attacking it in this section will recall his (humorous?) re-characterization of our &quot;melting pot&quot; as a &quot;chamber-pot&quot; because of the un-bridled influx of illegal and unsavory characters from all over, including nationals from countries that harbor harmful feelings for our country.  savage is, however, a walking anomaly/contradiction.  we need to look no further than where he chooses to reside.  a self professed conservative and apparent moralist has chosen, arguably, the most liberal birthing ground in the united states.  perhaps savage is a masochist or someone who wants a steady supply of story material for his books and radio shows, either way, i'm surprised he doesn't walk down 'frisco's streets on allergic overload.  all kidding aside, his daily exposure to what this american city has to offer has surely helped mold his view of our country, and continues to fuel his aggravation.  anyway, getting back to the book, read it.  whether you are conservative or liberal, it will put you in the &quot;savage nation&quot; mindset.  its guaranteed to make you ornery and, more importantly, make you think about the direction america is headed.  contrary to what some reviewers have stated, the type of course we are on is not inevitable.  unfortunately, nor is it desirable.  seeking to preserve america's culture, language and the integrity of her borders does not necessarily label one a racist.  like most others (savage included), i recognize that, other than our native american friends, there is really no such thing as an &quot;american&quot;, our nation being base-populated primarily by a european &quot;starter kit&quot;.  like savage, i do, however, see the attractiveness, and desirability, of preserving our undeniable heritage and the things that make us uniquely american.  what's being sold as &quot;multiculturism&quot; does not necesarily lend itself to that.	2003-04-14
US	51877630	R2Q212HX0179LO	0465017339	897442970	Letters to a Young Conservative (Art of Mentoring)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Redundant maybe, but entertaining	i found this book to be a quick read.  the format, or style of delivery was somewhat unique.  although the lessons are intended for a youthful audience, anyone with a desire to view the &quot;dark side&quot; of American liberalism can learn something here.  as somewhat a middle of the roader, i enjoy the near neutral vantage point when reading work such as this.  more than likely, i absorb more since &quot;my shields aren't up&quot;.  before purchasing this book, i read all of the reviews here (as i often do) and must admit, the sheer amount of negativity expressed by a substantial portion of reviewers intrigued me.  i figured this must be good to generate such passion, albeit acidic.  this is not my first venture into &quot;anti-left&quot; literature and, as mentioned above, i found the book entertaining and educational, if for no other reason due to the author's gift for story telling. after all, if new, accurate and impactful content were the litmus test for the attractiveness for a piece of non-fiction, Michael Moore couldn't get published.   my advice......buy it and examine it with an open mind.  don't be dissuaded by the critics' repetitive complaint that the material is not new.  this complaint, in itself, should not remove a book from consideration.	2003-04-10
US	51877630	R1C37B984CGOSY	0895261758	235490882	When I Was a Kid, This Was a Free Country	Books	4	16	23	N	N	Amusing and Thought Provoking	I think that those who rate this book low are missing Liddy's point. Granted, this is a colorful individual who takes some liberties (a key word in GL's vocabularly) with generalization..........but, he simply is yearning for a return to simpler times. Times when federal legislation was less restrictive and some measure of individual freedom still existed. those who so passionately oppose this book are still cranky because Al Gore lost the election. Loosen up, accept this for what it is - the examinations of a thoroughly frustrated conservative \\"cowboy\\" who would, if he could, turn back the clock. Liddy's critics, shown here and elsewhere, incorrectly label him as a racist, sexist and narrow minded criminal. they over-simplify a complex individual. his methods have not always passed the litmus test of legal statute and social more, but you have to give him credit....he has walked the walk, and demonstrated his convictions and patriotism, something that most of his detractors (i believe) have not done. if you take offense at Liddy's words, perhaps you've never truly enjoyed freedom in the uniquely American sense. but, everyone's entitled to their own view, this is the US of A, ain't it?	2003-04-03
