US	51875945	R1YOQMPQ3DEWLY	0399528458	84235810	The Girlfriends' Guide to Baby Gear: What to Buy, What to Borrow, and What to Blow Off! (Girlfriends' Guides)	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Very helpful for this first time mom!	I got this book as a gift during my recent pregnancy (I just gave birth to my first baby on May 27).  Since this was my first baby, I was unsure of what stuff I needed and what stuff was unnecessary.  The book was somewhat helpful, especially concerning some of the bigger ticket items that first time moms think they need.<br /><br />I didn't agree with everything they said in the book - specifically about hand me downs.  The authors seem to think that you should never under any circumstances get a car seat from a friend - but I think if you know the person well and know the history of the seat, there is no reason why you shouldn't accept one from a friend.  I got mine from someone I knew well who took great care of hers.  I had the police department check it over and install it, and they said it looked fine as well.<br /><br />Most of the information in the book was very useful to me when I was putting together my baby registry.  It's very overwhelming trying to figure out what all you need and the book helped narrow it down quite a bit.  I was able to get most of the things I needed without wasting people's time and money on unnecessary items.<br /><br />The book is also very easy to read.  The author has a laid back style that is goes over the information in a fun and light-hearted way, making it easy to understand and comprehend.  I highly recommend this book - it was definitely useful for me!	2005-06-10
US	51875945	R1UJ7MB77TUBD3	0761121323	874075168	What to Expect When You're Expecting	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Great for First Time Moms!	I just gave birth to my first baby on May 27.  I read a few pregnancy books, and this one was BY FAR the most helpful and thorough book out there.  It's got the answer to every single question I could have asked myself.  The morning I went in to labor, I grabbed the book and started reading about false labor and contractions to see if I was really in labor or not.<br /><br />The book is broken down in to sections by each month of pregnancy.  The author describes what is going on with the baby during each month, what kind of symptoms you may/may not be having, and gives a list of what to expect at your doctor's appointment that month.  Everything was pretty accurate and helped me to understand what changes my body was going through.  It was also neat to read about what my baby looked like and how she was developing as each month passed.<br /><br />Also in each section is a \\"frequently asked questions\\" type of format that had every single question and answer I could possibly think of - and tons I would never have thought of.  Any time I had a question, I broke out this book and was able to find the answer.  And every time I asked my doctor a question, he gave me an answer almost exactly the same as the book.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book to any pregnant woman, especially first-timers like myself  This book helped me through a lot of anxiety and worry about my baby.  Now I've moved on to \\"What to Expect the First Year\\" and it is just as wonderful.  Definitely worth all five of the stars I'm giving it!	2005-06-10
US	51875945	R1KE8UYNM59R7J	042519485X	806820342	Undead and Unwed (Queen Betsy, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Cute and funny	This was my first foray in to the world of vampire chick lit - a world I didn't even know existed! I bought the sequel (Undead and Unemployed) and I can't wait to read it, that's how much I enjoyed this book!<br /><br />Books like this are not meant for the serious at heart. This book is meant to be lighthearted and funny, something amusing to pass the time - much like a simple comedic movie. Definitely NOT meant to be taken as a serious work of literature!<br /><br />The basic story is about a 30-year old (former) secretary with a shoe fetish who recently got laid off, then killed. She wakes up in the morgue and finds she can't die and really wants to drink some blood. Finally she comes to terms with the fact that she's a vampire, but then she's introduced to the vampire subculture and proclaimed the Queen of the Undead, which she finds SO laughable and cliche.<br /><br />Add in her best friend Jessica as the bored socialite sidekick, along with a homosexual doctor and a sexy vampire named Eric Sinclair and you've got a motley crew of funny and interesting characters interacting with one another and creating hilarious scenarios.<br /><br />Definitely worth picking up as an airplane or beach read. It's quick, easy, and fun - I give it 4 stars!	2005-02-24
US	51875945	RHTO9AC31H2G9	051513855X	794602045	Blue Dahlia (In the Garden, Book 1)	Books	3	34	41	N	N	Just... ok	Seems that I agree with many of the other reviewers here... this latest effort by Nora Roberts is just a little flat compared to many of her previous works.<br /><br />The basic story is about widowed mother of two, Stella Rothchild.  Stella is a nut about organization.  She then falls for Logan Kitridge, the scatterbrained landscaper.  In the story you also meet Roz and Hayley, heroines of the next two books in the trilogy, and the Harper Bride, resident ghost.<br /><br />I'm hoping the other books will be more interesting, as I found Roz and Hayley to both be more fascinating than Stella.  Stella was kind of boring, unfortunately.  Also, I think too much of the story focused on other people and on the ghost, not enough on Logan and Stella.  Their relationship seemed rather rushed and almost unrealistic.<br /><br />Also, the gardening aspect was just plain boring.  Maybe it's because I have no interest in gardening myself... but one of the things I always liked about Nora Roberts was the interesting jobs her characters had (treasure hunters, stage magicians, talk show hosts, writers, etc).  Gardening isn't quite as fun to read about as a couple who fall in love while searching the ocean for buried treasure.<br /><br />To be fair, Nora Roberts at mediocre is still YARDS better than most other writers at their best.  I finished the book in a matter of hours and while it was not as good as some of her other stuff, it was still interesting enough to keep me reading.  If I get bored with a book, I'll toss it aside and not bother finishing it.  So, she gets 3 stars from me and I will be spending the money to read the other two books in the series. :)	2004-11-26
US	51875945	RWVENISCQKJ5R	0380895366	48579365	Wild Hearts	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Not one of Virginia Henley's better novels...	I've been a fan of Virginia Henley for quite awhile now - The Pirate and the Pagan is one of my favorite 'historical' romance novels.  I have read a good majority of her books and this one was probably one of her worst that I've read.<br />I just finished it this morning and I'm still a little perplexed.  Tabby starts off as a rather bland and boring character.  While she gets more interesting later on, her personality change is abrupt and jarring.  She goes from timid  and scared  to outrageous and outspoken in a matter of a few pages - not very believable.  Paris as the hero is much more interesting and pretty much stays the same the entire novel, much more believable to me.<br />The character of Anne, Paris' wife, is never fully explained.  When I finished the book I just kind of sat there wondering why she was the way she was.<br />Also, Paris has 4 sisters and 2 brothers - and their flamboyance kind of reminded me of Mary Balough's Bedwyn family.  They were pretty interesting, but I kind of would have preferred to find out more about Anne and more about Tabby's past (more about her mother and father) instead of so much about Paris' sisters and who they want to marry.<br />While the story was a little choppy and I didn't really like the heroine in the beginning, it did get better as the book went along and I got so in to it I couldn't put it down - as I tend to do with Virginia Henley's books.  So it wasn't a total loss. :) I still would recommend some of her other books instead of this one, particularly the Pirate and the Pagan, Dream Lover and the Dragon and the Jewel.	2004-07-14
US	51875945	R2K8JNAMXZZ2GO	0312983301	23983807	Full Blast (Full Series)	Books	2	17	31	N	N	Airplane/Beach Read, Not good for much else.	I've never read any of Janet Evanovich or Charlotte Hughes' other novels... so I really didn't know what to expect when I grabbed this book in an airport to read on a 3 hour flight.  I read the book in just over an hour and a half, mostly because the book is full of interesting dialogue and it moves quickly.  The chracters were, for the most part, wacky and intriguing and kept my interest.<br />The basic storyline is, Jamie Swift owns and runs a local newspaper in smalltown Beaumont, South Carolina.  She had a relationship with uber hot millionaire businessman Max Holt (I assume in a previous novel), but the two have not seen each other in several weeks.  When murders start happening in Beaumont and they appear tied to the personals section of Jamie's newspaper, she calls in Max for help and the two start to heat things up all over again as they try and solve the mystery.<br />While the book was a fast paced read with interesting characters, it was also chock full of cliches and absurdities.  First, how many romance novels have average Jane smalltown girl meeting and falling in love with the uber-millionaire who dates famous models and actresses?  I know it's a fun read, but after the 10 millionth time reading it, it gets a little silly.  Maybe it's just me, but I'm getting sick of the billionaire heros in romance novels.  It IS possible to have a great hero who isn't richer than Bill Gates!<br />The other MAJOR absurdity of the book is Max's computer, &quot;Muffin.&quot;  Maybe I found it totally stupid and preposterous because I work in the computer game industry around lots of programmers on a daily basis.  Max's computer is basically like David Hasselhoff's car in Knight Rider.  Except worse.  It has a personality and feelings (um, the computer suffers PMS?!).  Come on now.  The computer also is having a relationship with another computer at MIT?  What the?  When I first read about &quot;Muffin&quot; it was a total forehead slapper.  If I hadn't been on a plane with nothing else to read, I probably would have thrown down the book in disgust right there.<br />That said, the story did have it's positive points.  While I don't believe in psychics and the like, I did really enjoy the Destiny Moultrie character.  She was interesting and funny, especially when talking to her dead friend Ronnie.  The main characters were pretty interesting, though the secondary characters really made the book good.  Vera was another of my favorite characters, a vivacious old lady who wants to feel young again.<br />Overall, I think there are much better novels out there.  This one wasn't horrible as an airplane or beach read, but I would highly recommend MANY other books over it - specifically anything by Nora Roberts/J.D. Robb.with nothing else to read, I probably would have thrown down the book in disgust right there.<br />That said, the story did have it's positive points.  While I don't believe in psychics and the like, I did really enjoy the Destiny Moultrie character.  She was interesting and funny, especially when talking to her dead friend Ronnie.  The main characters were pretty interesting, though the secondary characters really made the book good.  Vera was another of my favorite characters, a vivacious old lady who wants to feel young again.<br />Overall, I think there are much better novels out there.  This one wasn't horrible as an airplane or beach read, but I would highly recommend MANY other books over it - specifically anything by Nora Roberts/J.D. Robb.	2004-06-19
US	51875945	R2U3TYAOKTSHSM	1551667231	987374374	The Last Cheerleader	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Average at best	I got this through a book club I'm in and it sounded interesting from the back cover, so I decided to read it.  Normally if a book really grips me, I read it in one sitting.  This wasn't one of those books.  It took me almost two weeks to get through it, which is incredibly long for me.<br />The basic plotline centers around Mary Beth, who is a literary agent.  Two of her authors and her ex-husband are all murdered and chinese dildos are left with the bodies.  Right after this happens, Lindy (a former cheerleader and schoolmate of Mary Beth's) shows up at her house begging for help after years of no contact.  So now Mary Beth has to figure out what Lindy's hiding, who killed her authors/ex-husband and come to terms with her own past.<br />While it wasn't a very gripping novel, I did enjoy reading it a bit here and there.  I finally finished it this evening and I have to say, I was totally disappointed with the ending.  I totally don't buy the murderer's identity.  Without going in to too much detail and giving it away for those who haven't read it yet - in my opinion, that part of the book was just a gratuitous twist.  It made no sense.<br />Beyond that, Mary Beth ends up having two relationships going on, one with another of her authors (and former flame), Patrick, the other with one of the police officers working on the case, Dan.  I was disappointed with the lack of resolution here, or if there was a resolution - it was a little too vague.<br />Other than those two complaints (the first of which is pretty major to me) the book was &quot;ok.&quot;  I did enjoy most of the story.  I don't know if I would recommend purchasing it, there are much better choices out there.  For a mystery/romance, I much prefer J.D. Robb's &quot;In Death&quot; series.	2004-05-29
US	51875945	R134JK5JYNM2J1	0425186199	407514430	Honest Illusions	Books	5	49	52	N	N	Magical and fun!	As an avid fan of Nora Roberts, I tend to buy and read almost any book of hers I can find! I have to say, this one didn't disappoint!  Interesting characters with interesting jobs, decent plot, great romance... what more could you ask for?  I liked it so much that I read it in once sitting - I could not put this book down!<br />The basic storyline is Max Nouvelle and his 9 year old daughter Roxanne are magicians in a travelling carnival when they meet 12 year old runaway and pickpocket, Luke Callahan.  Luke is mesmerized by Max and by his magic tricks and eventually joins the family and becomes a magician too.  The story progresses as the two children grow up and eventually fall in love.  Eventually the bad guy pops up, Sam Wyatt, who threatens to destroy the life that Luke has built for himself, and destroy the Nouvelle family.<br />Luke and Roxanne are two of the best characters ever in a Nora Roberts novel.  It's hard not to get caught up in the story and in their romance, they are so well written they're almost real!  The only disappointment in the book is I think Nora spent too much time on the childhood and not enough time on Luke and Roxy when they were adults.  I don't think their romance even really starts until page 250+.  Even so, the book was entertaining and really fun to read.  I highly recommend it!	2004-05-26
US	51875945	R2X7BYE3Q9POI0	0440236606	693174843	Slightly Sinful (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	3	27	28	N	Y	Not as good as the rest	Well, I've read all of the books in the &quot;Slightly&quot; / Bedwyn series so far.. and honestly, I liked this one the least.  I had a hard time getting in to it and after reading part-way through I found myself skimming page after page trying to find something interesting.  I normally enjoy Mary Balough's books, but I think I was just expecting too much from this one.  I really enjoy reading about the Bedwyn family and, in my opinion, they weren't in this one enough!  They don't show up until the last 25-30 pages of the novel.<br />The basic story is:  Lord Alleyne Bedwyn was a diplomat carrying a message to a Duke during the Battle of Waterloo.  He ends up shot and unconscious.  This part happens actually in the previous novel, which is Morgan Bedwyn's story.  His family thinks he is dead.  Enter Rachel York, a well-bred young lady who has had a rough life.  Now an orphan, she is taking refuge in a brothel run by good-hearted prostitutes.  She met a conman, got engaged to him, then he took off with her money and the life savings of the prostitutes.<br />She's now living with them, trying to figure out a way to get their money back.  They end up searching the dead bodies on the battlefield and come across Alleyne, who has been stripped naked.  They bring him back to the brothel and nurse him to health.  Unfortunately, Alleyne has amnesia and doesn't remember anything about himself!  Alleyne decides to help Rachel and her friends find the conman, which ends up involving visiting Rachel's uncle and pretending to be married in order to get Rachel's inheritance.<br />For me, the story didn't even get interesting until Alleyne, Rachel and friends show up at the uncle's house.  The relationship and dialogue between Rachel and her uncle is interesting and quite touching.  Rachel's prostitute friends are quirky and interesting, especially when interacting with each other and with Alleyne.  Alleyne is kind of bland compared to how he has been portrayed in previous &quot;Slightly&quot; novels.<br />In my opinion, the amnesia thing went on far too long.  Amnesia as a plot device is so tired and overdone, especially in romance novels.  I've probably read 25 or 30 with virtually the same plot.  Probably even an even MORE tired plot device is the &quot;Pretend marriage!&quot;<br />Not bringing in the rest of the Bedwyn family until the last chapter or so was a huge mistake.  Some of Mary Balough's best and most interesting characters are the Bedwyns, especially when they're interacting together.  They were sorely missed!  I'm hoping that Wulf's story is better than this one, especially since he has been the most intriguing and mysterious Bedwyn sibling.<br />To be fair, I did manage to get through the whole book and it wasn't all bad.  The supporting characters were interesting (albeit a tad bit unbelievable) and the subplots were pretty amusing as well.  Alleyne and Rachel had their moments as well.  Overall, I would say it was an average romance novel.  Unfortunately, it just doesn't compare to Mary Balough's other works.  My favorite Bedwyn novel so far has been Freyja's story (Slightly Scandalous), I highly recommend reading that one over this, if given the choice.lightly&quot; novels.<br />In my opinion, the amnesia thing went on far too long.  Amnesia as a plot device is so tired and overdone, especially in romance novels.  I've probably read 25 or 30 with virtually the same plot.  Probably even an even MORE tired plot device is the &quot;Pretend marriage!&quot;<br />Not bringing in the rest of the Bedwyn family until the last chapter or so was a huge mistake.  Some of Mary Balough's best and most interesting characters are the Bedwyns, especially when they're interacting together.  They were sorely missed!  I'm hoping that Wulf's story is better than this one, especially since he has been the most intriguing and mysterious Bedwyn sibling.<br />To be fair, I did manage to get through the whole book and it wasn't all bad.  The supporting characters were interesting (albeit a tad bit unbelievable) and the subplots were pretty amusing as well.  Alleyne and Rachel had their moments as well.  Overall, I would say it was an average romance novel.  Unfortunately, it just doesn't compare to Mary Balough's other works.  My favorite Bedwyn novel so far has been Freyja's story (Slightly Scandalous), I highly recommend reading that one over this, if given the choice.	2004-05-18
US	51875945	RK98X5BL9NTV3	0821772341	54816117	Kentucky Rich	Books	2	14	17	N	N	Started off good...	I got this book, Kentucky Rich, along with its sequel, Kentucky Heat, a few days ago and just finished the first book.  It took awhile to get through and I ended up skimming a lot of it.<br />The book starts off interesting, with a prologue about Nealy Coleman coming back to the home she was driven off of 30 years earlier to \\"dance\\" on her dying father's grave and to make him pay for mistreating her.<br />The novel then goes to \\"part 1,\\" which goes back 30 years to talk about how 17 year old Nealy and her 2 year old daughter ran away from home (at the urgings of her two brothers, Pyne and Rhy) and ended up at Blue Diamond Farms, where the owners, Maud and Jess, take them in.  It follows Nealy's growing up and eventually taking over the farm.<br />Part 2 is 30 years later, and starts with the prologue and Nealy's reunion with her brothers and dying father.  This is where the book really starts to fall on its face.  The plot here gets mind numbingly boring, even confusing at times when the author brings back dozens of characters from two of her other trilogies (which I have not read, so I am not familiar with them).<br />Nealy as a herione is rather unlikeable.  She's immature, even at the end as a 50-something year old woman.  She's often cold and heartless.  I couldn't garner any sympathy for her and her actions often made me say \\"What the heck??\\"<br />The romance in this book is practically unmentioned.  Nealy meets the hero in the first part of the book, barely interacts with him during the entire \\"part 1\\" and the two are married at the end.  Part 2 opens with basically \\"Oh yeah, Hunt died and actually his and Nealy's relationship wasn't really love, he was having affairs and didn't deserve her.\\"  Uhh... what??!<br />It's also obvious that Fern Michaels knows practically nothing about horses.  Being a horsewoman myself, I laughed out loud at some of the ridiculous scenes in this book.  Some other reviewers have mentioned them as well - one of my favorite idiotic scenes is when Nealy wants the stallion to witness the birth of his colt and have the three of them (stallion, mare and colt) become a \\"family.\\"  Sorry, but horses are not people.  While I believe they feel affection, they don't form \\"families\\" in the way that people do.<br />Also, the author seemed to have a lot of trouble putting the plot together.  It jumped around so much it was jarring to read.  One example is when Nealy meets a guy that some of her friends are trying to set her up with.  He starts off by telling her that a woman's place is in the kitchen and not on a horse (which of course makes her mad).  Eventually he apologizes and they make up.  Cut, next chapter begins.  It's several months later and Nealy hates his guts because they were supposed to have a date and he stood her up.  What the heck??<br />She also makes a big deal out of certain events.. like a hundred pages leading up to a big race - a race so important because it was her promise to the dying Maud that the horse win - then spends one short paragraph on the race itself.<br />Overall, I wasn't very impressed with this book.  The main character is unsympathetic, poorly written and unlikeable.  There is practically no romance in the book - and what romance IS there is completely unrealistic.  Research is important, and its obvious the author either didn't do her research on horses and racing, or just decided to disregard the facts.  So I give it 2 stars.iotic scenes is when Nealy wants the stallion to witness the birth of his colt and have the three of them (stallion, mare and colt) become a \\"family.\\"  Sorry, but horses are not people.  While I believe they feel affection, they don't form \\"families\\" in the way that people do.<br />Also, the author seemed to have a lot of trouble putting the plot together.  It jumped around so much it was jarring to read.  One example is when Nealy meets a guy that some of her friends are trying to set her up with.  He starts off by telling her that a woman's place is in the kitchen and not on a horse (which of course makes her mad).  Eventually he apologizes and they make up.  Cut, next chapter begins.  It's several months later and Nealy hates his guts because they were supposed to have a date and he stood her up.  What the heck??<br />She also makes a big deal out of certain events.. like a hundred pages leading up to a big race - a race so important because it was her promise to the dying Maud that the horse win - then spends one short paragraph on the race itself.  <br />Overall, I wasn't very impressed with this book.  The main character is unsympathetic, poorly written and unlikeable.  There is practically no romance in the book - and what romance IS there is completely unrealistic.  Research is important, and its obvious the author either didn't do her research on horses and racing, or just decided to disregard the facts.  So I give it 2 stars.	2004-01-23
US	51875945	R11D6C70OHU3XU	0972018417	33260681	Eating for Life: Your Guide to Great Health, Fat Loss and Increased Energy	Books	5	342	347	N	N	WOW!  Solves my bland food problem!	My fiance did the Body-for-Life challenge and lost 40 pounds in 12 weeks!  Currently we are 2 weeks in to another Body-for-Life challenge and we've found the biggest problem for us is lack of interesting food to eat.  We decided to pick up the Eating-for-Life book to hopefully get some better recipes and all I can say is WOW!  Bill Phillips really outdid himself with this book.<br />This book starts with 70 pages describing many of the ideas about food he covered in his bestselling book, Body-for-Life.  As he explains, diets are BAD.  They are impossible to maintain, so 95% of people who go on diets end up gaining back everything they lost (and often MORE than they lost).  His philosophy is to eat balanced, nutrient-rich meals six times a day.  This keeps you full, so you never feel like you're starving, and also signals to your body that its getting the nutrients it needs and can stop storing all the fat.<br />This is the first time I've seriously done the Body-for-Life challenge and I've already lost 8 pounds of fat!  The biggest problem for me, as I said, was how BORING I thought healthy foods were.  This book has shown me how wrong I was!  The first day I got it, I flipped through it and salivated at all the delicious recipes!  There are over a hundred GOOD recipes in here, including shrimp scampi, chicken noodle soup, filet mignon, chicken fajitas and SO much more.  There are even several healthy dessert recipes, including fruit crepes, cheesecake and walnut brownies!  The recipes are not only healthy, but extremely easy to prepare and very delicious!<br />A lot of people have said that Bill Phillips plan takes a lot of dedication and hard work, and that's true.  But there is no \\"easy\\" diet out there.  I've tried some of the \\"fad\\" diets, including low carb diets and diet pills.  While they sometimes work, I found them impossible to stick to and maintain weightloss on.  With Body-for-Life, and especially now with this AMAZING cookbook, I can eat healthy, delicious meals AND lose weight.  Plus, with Body-for-Life, you have a free day every single week (usually Sunday) where you can eat whatever you want in whatever quantities you want.<br />I highly recommend checking this book out, even if you aren't interested in the Body-for-Life program.  The recipes are better than I've seen in most diet books.ious meals AND lose weight.  Plus, with Body-for-Life, you have a free day every single week (usually Sunday) where you can eat whatever you want in whatever quantities you want.  <br />I highly recommend checking this book out, even if you aren't interested in the Body-for-Life program.  The recipes are better than I've seen in most diet books.	2004-01-15
US	51875945	R1UDZ6GCABJJR6	0440241057	429766150	Slightly Wicked (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Enjoyable Fast-Paced Romance Novel	I read the first book in Mary Balough's Bedwyn series (Slightly Married) several months ago and I thought it was just &quot;ok.&quot;  It didn't stand out to me, but I decided on a whim to pick up this book, Slightly Wicked, which is the second in the series.<br />The Bedwyn's are a huge family led by Wulfric, Duke of Bedwyn.  Second brother is Aidan, who is the hero in Slightly Married.  Third brother is Rannulf, who is the hero in this book.  There is another brother (Alleyne) and two sisters (Freeyja and Morgan).  I believe the author is planning to write about all of them, I know Slightly Scandalous (Freeyja's story) is already published, and two more &quot;Slightly&quot; books are on the way.<br />This story starts off with a young woman named Judith Law who is on a stagecoach to her aunt's home, where she is going to become an unpaid servant for an indefinite amount of time.  On the journey, the stagecoach overturns and a man (Rannulf) rides up.  She is worried that being the unattractive third sister in a poor family, that she will end up an unmarried spinster for the rest of her life - so she takes advantage of the situation, pretends to be an actress named Claire Campbell, and has an adventure with Rannulf.<br />When the weather clears up, they part ways and she turns back in to plain old Judith and heads to her aunt's home.  Much to Judith's surprise, Rannulf turns up a few days later at the house to woo Judith's cousin, Julianne.  Rannulf is shocked as well and neither of them know how to proceed. The rest I'll leave to the reader to find out. :)<br />I actually liked this novel a lot better than Slightly Married.  I found it read a lot easier and the characters were more likeable.  I especially enjoyed the villanous aunt and Judith's frivolent brother, Branwell.  One part I thought was stupid was how often Judith described herself as ugly, when everyone else thought she was so drop-dead gorgeous they could never keep their eyes off of her.  The explanation is that her strict father constantly put down her appearance, but even so... that is one thing I see a lot in romance novels, heroines who think they are hideous looking but actually look like goddesses.<br />Even with its minor faults, Slightly Wicked was still a fun book and I definitely plan on reading the rest of the novels in the series.  I am especially looking forward to Wulfric's story, though she will probably save him for last!lanation is that her strict father constantly put down her appearance, but even so... that is one thing I see a lot in romance novels, heroines who think they are hideous looking but actually look like goddesses.  <br />Even with its minor faults, Slightly Wicked was still a fun book and I definitely plan on reading the rest of the novels in the series.  I am especially looking forward to Wulfric's story, though she will probably save him for last!	2004-01-11
US	51875945	R1ICR5V0KYF9H9	0385335881	796714451	Shopaholic Takes Manhattan	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Shopaholic Takes Manhatten!	Becky Bloomwood, heroine of the novel &quot;Confessions of a Shopaholic,&quot; is back!  She paid off her bills, got a killer job as a financial advisor on her favorite morning TV show and has a wonderful boyfriend, Luke!  When he tells her he is contemplating moving to New York, she is a little unsure.  They decide to take a two week trip there to check it out and once Becky arrives, she is in love with the city!<br />She finds Bloomindales and Barneys and sample sales and Vera Wang, she thinks she's died and gone to heaven!  She starts spending money like crazy .. and ends up getting herself in even bigger trouble than she did last time back in London.<br />I absolutely loved this novel. I read it the same night I read Confessions of a Shopaholic and I thought they were both hilarious.  Becky is a very likeable character with thought processes we can ALL relate to!  The writing is fast paced and I managed to read this entire book in a couple of hours.<br />My only problem with the book is that I wish the author (Sophie Kinsella) had spent more time on the relationship between Luke and Becky and a tad bit less time on shopping mishaps.  Even so, it was a fun novel that I thoroughly enjoyed.  I highly recommend reading it!  It's one of those books that's so fun and fast, its hard to put down once you start reading!	2004-01-09
US	51875945	R3F9O0EK4VZZD2	0385336179	902335429	Shopaholic Ties the Knot (Shopaholic, No 3)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Shopaholic Does it Again!	Shopaholic Ties the Knot is the third book about Becky Bloomwood and her boyfriend Luke.  Becky has moved to New York and now has the absolutely perfect job, personal shopper at Barneys!  She's blissfully happy with her job and wonderful boyfriend, Luke.  When he proposes, she couldn't be more thrilled.  Until the battle of the mother-in-laws starts.<br />Becky's mother wants her to get married back in London, while Luke's overbearing mother wants an all-out, no expenses spared wedding at the Plaza.  Both sound good to Becky and with Luke stressing out over work, she ends up not saying no to either wedding!  So now she has two weddings being planned on two continents on the same date!<br />This novel is yet another wonderful story by Sophie Kinsella about an intriguing and fun character who has a shopping obsession!  The thing I liked better about this book over the previous two is that it focused more on Becky and her relationships with her mother and Luke, and had slightly fewer shopping trips.  Becky is still the same hilarious girl, always entangling herself in some kind of mess - but I felt this book delved a little deeper in to her and some of the other characters in the book.<br />Shopaholic Ties the Knot is another great read by Kinsella, I highly recommend picking it up along with Confessions of a Shopaholic and Shopaholic Takes Manhatten.  All three are light-hearted and fun, very easy to read and very difficult to put down once you start.	2004-01-09
US	51875945	R27OFAIBMBXWO2	037348397X	909727713	The Donovan Legacy: Captivated/ Entranced/ Charmed	Books	5	48	49	N	Y	The Donovan Legacy	I had read the Nora Roberts novel \\"Entranced\\" several years ago and always wanted to read the books for the other two Donovan cousins, but never got around to it.  A few months ago I picked up this book (which has all three novels in it) and read straight through the entire thing in a few days!<br />The three stories are \\"Captivated,\\" \\"Entranced,\\" and \\"Charmed.\\"<br />\\"Captivated\\" centers around the first Donovan cousin, Morgana.  She is a witch who runs a wiccan type store in Monterey.  Nash is a novelist who specializes in horror stories (like Steven King I guess) and he is planning to write a novel about witches, so he comes to meet Morgana since she is infamous in the area for being a witch.  At first he doesn't believe her powers are real, but as the two continue getting to know each other and fall in love, he begins to believe.  I love both the characters, Nash and Morgana.  They are extremely well written and fun, I quickly became attached to them.  Their story was fast-paced and easy to read, I found it thoroughly enjoyable!<br />\\"Entranced\\" is about the only male Donovan cousin, Sebastian.  He has psychic powers and often uses them to help the police when they are stuck on a case.  Mel is a private investigator searching for the kidnapped baby of one of her friends.  She doesn't want Sebastian's help, but the distraught mother called him anyways.  The two of them go on an intriguing journey to find the lost child, and in the process (of course) fall in love!  This was my favorite of the three stories - I really became fond of Mel especially.  Probably because she reminds me a lot of Eve Dallas, the main character of Nora Roberts' (aka J.D. Robb's) \\"In Death\\" novels.  Again, the characters are fun, sympathic and enjoyable to read about.  This book is more of an adventure than the other two, which made it all the more enjoyable to read.  I've read it half a dozen times and I STILL love it. :)<br />\\"Charmed\\" is about the final Donovan cousin, Anastasia.  Her extraordinary powers specialize in the healing arts.  A  widowed (I think, I can't remember) father, Boone, moves in next door to her with his young daughter, Jessie.  Ana and Jessie get along extremely well and because of this Ana and Boone end up spending a lot of time together and fall in love.  The big problem is, Boone doesn't know Anastasia has magical powers which ends up causing a rift between them when he finds out.  Honestly, I thought this was the weakest of the three stories.  It wasn't as interesting as the first two and while it was still good, it had the potential to be so much better.  Even so, I really enjoyed the characters, especially Jessie who definitely stole the story.<br />All three books are fun, I really enjoy Nora Roberts trilogies.  I get really attached to characters, so seeing them again in a new book is such a fun experience!  I highly recommend this set, any Nora Roberts fan will enjoy these books.extraordinary powers specialize in the healing arts.  A  widowed (I think, I can't remember) father, Boone, moves in next door to her with his young daughter, Jessie.  Ana and Jessie get along extremely well and because of this Ana and Boone end up spending a lot of time together and fall in love.  The big problem is, Boone doesn't know Anastasia has magical powers which ends up causing a rift between them when he finds out.  Honestly, I thought this was the weakest of the three stories.  It wasn't as interesting as the first two and while it was still good, it had the potential to be so much better.  Even so, I really enjoyed the characters, especially Jessie who definitely stole the story.  <br />All three books are fun, I really enjoy Nora Roberts trilogies.  I get really attached to characters, so seeing them again in a new book is such a fun experience!  I highly recommend this set, any Nora Roberts fan will enjoy these books.	2004-01-06
US	51875945	R2WZVR5FKFS94F	0761129413	95740645	365 Cats Page-A-Day Calendar 2004 (Color Page-A-Day(r) Calendars)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Great gift for cat-lovers!	I recently purchased this for my fiance's sister and she loves it!  The calendar is extremely cute, with a different cat picture for each day.  Also, with the pictures there are cute little daily cat facts!  I have been a cat owner for my entire life and never knew some of them!  This is a very inexpensive and fun gift, I highly recommend it.	2004-01-06
US	51875945	R3QMVINEP7JVQ	083303264X	855897208	Countering al Qaeda: An Appreciation of the Situation and Suggestions for Strategy	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Kinda short.	I purchased this gift for a friend because it was on her wish list.  I didn't read the description and was surprised when it arrived and was a short (25-30 page) paperback.<br />While there is some interesting info in there regarding the campaign against Al Qaeda, it is way too short to delve in to complex facts and theories.<br />This book basically outlines and describes the basic campaign against Al Qaeda, but does not go in to much detail.  While it was interesting, there are much better books out there on the same subject.	2004-01-06
US	51875945	R2F56KSSYHBKKW	0553104241	445871149	The Rana Look	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Not bad.	I picked this up at the airport recently and read it during a long flight and layover.  I didn't know it was a reprint of an older book, though I should have known from the quality!<br />The story was just &quot;ok.&quot; I felt it could have been a lot more interesting.  I have a hard time believing that frumpy clothes and sunglasses could hide &quot;the world's most famous supermodel&quot;, especially considering how easily recognized most celebrities are in People magazine, even with sunglasses and baseball caps on!<br />Trent and Rana were interesting characters though, and the story flowed well and was easy to read.  The basic idea is that Rana gave up her supermodel career because she was sick of her overbearing mother constantly pushing her in to things she didn't want.  She put on the sunglasses and frumpy clothes and became the prudish &quot;Ana&quot; who rented a room from an elderly lady named Ruby.  Ruby's nephew Trent came to stay for a few weeks, to heal up his shoulder before returning to his job as a pro football quarterback.<br />Trent shows interest in Ana, which surprises her since she is supposedly so hideous in her frumpy clothes.  They end up falling in love, but having a predictable fallout before making up and living happily ever after.<br />Overall, I have a hard time giving this book more than 3 stars.  I did read it and somewhat enjoy it, but I found the plot and characters a little cliche and unbelieveable.  It's a good airplane read though, as it's quick and easy!  There are much better romance novels out there, so I only recommend this one in a pinch.	2003-12-31
US	51875945	R3OOHYK54GKR8S	0515136530	370800636	Key of Valor	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Nice finish to the triology!	I've been enthralled with the Key trilogy since I picked up KEY OF LIGHT a short few months ago!  The three books are about three women (Malory, Dana and Zoe) who embark on a quest to recover three keys in order to unlock the Box of Souls where three Celtic demigoddesses are trapped.  Oh, there's also an evil sorcerer named Kane who is trying to stop them. Sounds silly, but Nora Roberts manages to pull it off!<br />This final book is Zoe's story.  Zoe was a struggling hairdresser until the quest started, now she is on her way to a better life, starting a business with Malory and Dana and entering in to a relationship with the enterprising Brad Vane (who is also connected to the quest along with Flynn and Jordan).<br />The chemistry between Zoe and Brad is great, though I was a bit disappointed in this novel!  In the first two, they were constantly at each other's throats, and suddenly in this book Zoe has an almost complete attitude change towards him.  Even so, that's a minor complaint and the rest of the novel was great!<br />I really enjoyed reading the conclusion to the story, and Nora Roberts ties up all the loose ends wonderfully.  I adore her trilogies and this is one of my favorites!  I highly recommend all three books, and for those who like her stories - check out the Chesapeake Bay trilogy!  It's one of my favorites!	2003-12-31
US	51875945	R230VI0EA3S6SR	0553264613	559326423	Hot Ice	Books	4	43	44	N	N	Not her best, but still entertaining	I'm an avid Nora Roberts fan, I tend to read any of her books that I can get my hands on!  I had a long day of traveling today, so I picked up this book in the airport and read most of it during a 3 hour layover.<br />The basic story is that uber thief Douglas Lord got double crossed by his boss and in return, double crossed the boss and stole some papers with information leading to a treasure in Madagascar.  While on the run, he hooks up with wealthy ice cream heiress Whitney MacAllister.  The two of them head out on an adventure to find the treasure, all the while outwitting Doug's old boss and his goons.<br />While this book doesn't come close to Nora's more recent stuff, it's still a fun and entertaining read.  Some reviewers didn't like Whitney much, but I found her to be the most interesting character in the entire book.  I never could predict what might come out of her mouth!<br />The ending of Hot Ice was where I think this book fell apart.  I hesitate to say too much for those who might still want to read it, but it seems anticlimactic.  I also felt that while the two characters had an attraction to each other, there was never the romance and love aspect - so I also found that part of the ending a little hard to swallow.<br />Even with its flaws, the book read quickly and was fun.  It made my layover and long flights fly by, I could hardly put it down.	2003-12-31
US	51875945	R14R7IPIE6IZF8	0761104844	280019609	1,000 Places to See Before You Die: A Traveler's Life List	Books	3	30	39	N	N	Fun, but not practical!	This book is fun to read, but I don't know how practical it is for the average person.<br />While the title says 1000 places to see, I dont' know how many places in her book I would actually want to go to!  The author includes a lot of expensive hotels and a lot of overseas touristy destinations.  Most people are lucky to afford a few trips to places like that in their lifetime, not a thousand!  This book is an interesting read for all, but NOT a guide for those travelling on a budget.<br />That being said, I found the book to be pretty fun and I do hope to visit some of those places before I die!  She mentions dozens of gorgeous locations, tons of nice hotels and if I had the opportunity I would love to see them all!<br />I gave the book three stars because while it is an interesting read, it's not practical.  Most people cannot travel to all those locations.  Also, the author wrote about a lot of locations that may have been fresh and new many years ago, but are now pretty worn out.  This is a good &quot;bathroom&quot; book or coffeetable conversation piece.	2003-12-24
US	51875945	R2I3X4LNKGFYR4	0743490398	683639187	The Ultimate Weight Solution Food Guide	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Useful Guide!	This book is a good companion to the Ultimate Weight Solution (by Dr Phil as well).  My fiance and I have been trying to follow the weight plan from the previous mentioned book and are doing fairly well!  I like how this guide has suggestions for meals for 14 different days, which makes it easy for me to mix and match.  The key to eating well is planning.  Plan what you are going to eat so that you don't end up trying to decide between something healthy and unhealthy.. I know in my case the unhealthy tends to win if given the choice!  When I plan out an entire week of meals though, I find myself having a much easier time sticking to it.<br />This guide talks a lot about portion control, calorie counting, supressing cravings, etc.  Most of the advice is good, though a lot of it is just saying what other people have been saying in a different way!  I still think the advice works!  Having a list of exactly what you CAN eat is incredibly useful - makes it so much easier!  I highly recommend this (in addition to the Ultimate Weight Solution).	2003-12-24
US	51875945	RAEAJVDLYAW0B	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Light-hearted fun!	Sophie Kinsella's novel &quot;Confessions of a Shopaholic&quot; is refreshing and fun to read.  I read it in a few hours the other night and just loved it!  Fortunately I had already purchased the two sequels (Shopaholic Takes Manhatten and Shopaholic Ties the Knot) so I jumped right in and read some more!<br />Becky Bloomwood is a hip English 20-something who has a serious addiction to shopping!  She can't help but stop in the shops after work (she writes for a financial magazine called Successful Saving), and then when she sees that gorgeous scarf.. how can she possibly resist?  So out comes the Visa!  But when that Visa bill comes at the end of the month, Becky can hardly believe she managed to spend THAT much money in such a short period of time.  She then has to come up with some creative solutions to her financial woes, or else her credit cards might be turned off!<br />The antics between Becky and her credit card company and bank manager are hilarious!  Sophie Kinsella writes a lot of it in letter form, which is just plain funny.<br />Becky's relationship with Luke Brandon is the one part of the story I felt could have been better.  I like most of the interactions between them - but I did want more.  We barely saw Luke during most of the story, I would have preferred a few more interactions between them.  I thought the shopping expedition between the two of them was great - especially Becky's reaction when she finds out they're picking out luggage!<br />Overall, it's a fun, light read. I read the entire book in a matter of a few hours and read the sequel later that night.  All the characters are fun and interesting, with unique (yet realistic) personalities.  I highly recommend this book, it's a riot!	2003-12-22
US	51875945	R34NTLQC07XPSX	0744002621	333525243	Warcraft(R) III: The Frozen Throne(TM) Official Strategy Guide (Brady Games)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	WCIII:Frozen Throne Strategy Guide	I admit, I am one of those people who is always buying the guides for games.  I get easily frustrated when I can't figure something out, so if I can't beat a mission on the first or second try, I cheat or use a guide to help.  I was having issues with some of the missions while I was playing the Frozen Throne campaign and I finally got the guide.  I only use it for the chapter-by-chapter walkthrough of the campaign for assistance during the particularly rough missions.  It was incredibly useful, very detailed - everything I expected from a strategy guide.  It had all the information I wanted, plus a heck of a lot more - but it was easy to navigate through and find exactly the mission I was having trouble with and find the solution to my problem.  I highly recommend this guide!	2003-12-02
US	51875945	R14JQ68XUPINMR	0757300987	438531635	Chicken Soup for the Horse Lover's Soul: Inspirational Stories About Horses and the People Who Love Them (Chicken Soup for the Soul)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Chicken Soup	I've always loved the Chicken Soup books, and this one is no exception.  I'll even go as far as to say it's probably my favorite!  I love horses, and they've been a part of my life since I was a child.  It's so heart-warming and endearing to read the stories in this book .. and it's addicting!  This book is hard to put down once you start reading all the great stories.  I highly recommend - to horse-lovers and non-horse people alike!	2003-11-30
US	51875945	R34GAY08SMV87Q	0380978415	380736465	Fluke: Or, I Know Why the Winged Whale Sings	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Weird is good!	After reading Practical Demonkeeping, I've been itching to read another Christopher Moore book!  I got this one for my birthday this year, and couldn't put it down.  Some say it's too weird.. but weird and intriguing storylines seem to be his forte!  I LOVED the book!  The characters are colorful and fun to read about, the plot is just hilarious.  It's a great book - I highly recommend it!	2003-11-30
US	51875945	R2OT6RRTR82LBD	0743227115	822851800	Ultraprevention: The 6-Week Plan That Will Make You Healthy for Life	Books	5	20	26	N	N	Finally!!	I've always believed too many Americans use medications WAY too much and a lot of times they are unnecessary.  This book helps you adopt a healthier style of eating and living that will keep you from having to use unnecessary medications.  (This in no way means people who have specific medications (like insulin for diabetics) should stop taking them).	2003-11-30
US	51875945	RV7Q4J35FOCQW	0385336306	915295648	Safe Harbour	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Safe Harbour	This is the story of a woman who lost her son and husband in a plane crash, and how she recovers with the help of her daughter and a new friend.  As with most of Danielle Steel's stories, there is tragedy - but love heals all wounds and there is a happier ending.  This is a heart-warming story and well worth taking the time to read.  I highly recommend it!	2003-11-29
US	51875945	R2YN5A7BXJUZYL	0515136379	214237042	Key of Knowledge	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Part 2 Doesn't Disappoint!	Wow!!! I got this book on the 25th and finished it yesterday morning.  What a great story!<br />Malory completed part 1 of the quest in Key of Light, and also found love with Flynn Hennessey.  Part 2, Key of Knowledge, is the story of Dana (Flynn's step-sister).  Malory, Dana, and Zoe each have to find a key, to free the souls of three Celtic goddesses who have been trapped by an evil sorcerer.  It sounds silly, but Nora has a way of writing it and making it seem completely reasonable!<br />Dana was in love with a writer named Jordan Hawke, but he broke her heart many years ago when he moved to New York City to make a name for himself as a Stephen King like writer.  He's back in town though, and between the quest for the key and the sparks flying between Jordan and Dana (plus Malory, Dana and Zoe all starting their own business together), this book is packed with action on almost every page.  I couldn't put it down once I started reading and now I'm pining away for book 3 (Key of Valor).  I can't wait to see how it all ends, and read the story of Brad and Zoe!<br />Nora's characters are, as always, sympathetic, intriguing, and fun to read.  Her dialogue is always flowing and realistic, her men sexy and charming.  I'm a huge fan of her books and style, and in this one she definitely doesn't disappoint.  I highly recommend it!	2003-11-28
US	51875945	R2QI3YSEM84NMV	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Definitely hard to put down once you start!	This is a great suspense book that really keeps you on your toes!  The basic outline is that a museum curator gets murdered and a cryptic message left via the Mona Lisa.  His cryptologist granddaughter, Sophie, must then try and decipher the code and figure out who killed her grandfather.<br />I don't want to give anything more away, you really have to read it for yourself!  The book is gripping and really makes you think.  It gives you the codes to try and crack yourself along with Sophie.  It also is chock full of information about history and art, this book ended up being quite educational!<br />I highly recommend this book.. the plot twists and turns will keep you on the edge of your seat!  Believe me, once you start reading it you won't be able to put it down!	2003-11-27
US	51875945	R19J14OAOFKV3A	1579546463	191099180	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET The Delicious, Doctor-Designed, Foolproof Plan for Fast and Healthy Weight Loss	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	It Works!	This is an excellent book!  I've tried many of the fad diets and none of them really seemed to work that well.  I also tried &quot;Body-for-Life&quot; which works, but is just too time consuming and strict!  The thing I liked better about this diet, is that you have the different &quot;phases&quot; which are not too hard to stick to.  The recipes are great - very useful!  I highly recommend it!  Give it a try, stick to it.. you won't regret it. :)	2003-11-27
US	51875945	R1GO5HQFWY83HO	051513628X	546939994	Key of Light	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Nora Roberts does it again!	I'm a huge fan of Nora Roberts, especially of her trilogies, AND especially of her Celtic fantasy type stories.  I didn't know this book was coming out until I saw it at the grocery store, so I nabbed it.  I read it cover to cover the night I got it, it was that good!  I have been waiting anxiously for the 2nd and 3rd books (just got the 2nd one overnighted since it came out today!) ever since!<br />The characters are great - so sympathetic and interesting.  The lead character in this first book is Malory Price.  She's one of those super-organized types that we all hate! (kidding!).  She's got a life plan, which is right on track with her great career as the manager of an art gallery.  Unfortunately the gallery owner marries a young bimbo who makes the gallery her pet and infuriates Malory.  Malory ends up in a fight with her, and is on the verge of losing her job when the story starts.  She gets an invitation to Warrior's Peak where she meets Zoe and Dana (the heroines of the next two books) and the three of them get sucked in to a whirlwind adventure about Celtic goddesses, lost souls and keys that desperately need to be found.  Of course, there are three gorgeous men and an evil sorcerer to contend with.  Overall, it adds up to a GREAT novel in typical Nora Roberts fashion.  I HIGHLY recommend to anyone - not just Nora fans!	2003-11-26
US	51875945	R1P6S49MZ0MPB5	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	3	4	12	N	N	Entertainment value=5 stars!	I'm not sure which party I fall in to myself, I have views that most would think are Democratic, and others that are definitely more conservative.  I tend to listen to a lot of talk radio though, I think Bill O'Reilly and Sean Hannity are hilarious.  :)  But the key for me is not taking them so seriously, because at heart - they are entertainers.  They are trying to get listeners and ratings, that is their number one goal!  The same goes for people like Al Franken and his book.  While he may have some interesting points that I do agree with, his bottom line is making $$ on it.  Because of that, I think he tends to exaggerate things and say things that are way over the top - it's more interesting to read than the truth sometimes.  So with that, I will say this book was an interesting and fun read - and I do recommend it to conservatives and liberals alike!	2003-11-25
US	51875945	R89SLUGRIWKNQ	158017308X	365020416	Feng Shui Dos & Taboos	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Great supplemental reference guide	This book is best used as a quick reference guide to Feng Shui!  It's fun to read through and full of information, but it's not meant to be an introductory book for beginners.  It's great as a reference though, it's super easy to look up information on the fly.	2003-11-03
US	51875945	R15QX7UCA8ANYN	0767903595	79269283	Clear Your Clutter with Feng Shui: Free Yourself from Physical, Mental, Emotional, and Spiritual Clutter Forever	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	Get rid of that clutter!	This book made me realize how much clutter around the house really does stress me out.  I've become motivated to clean it up and I'm so happy with the results.  My living room is virtually clutter free and it's amazingly so much more relaxing to spend time in there!	2003-11-03
US	51875945	R24I8H94IZDADW	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Great Novel!	In this Dan Brown book, Angels and Demons, Robert Langdon (who so many became familiar with in The Da Vinci Code, though this book was written before The Da Vinci Code) is on a mission to save the Vatican and figure out the mysterious Illuminati.<br />Dan Brown again provides a book full of information about history, religion and science - making this book educational as well as thoroughly enjoyable.  This book is full of suspense, twists and turns and surprises!  It's a great story, and anyone who enjoyed The Da Vinci Code will love this book as well.  I highly recommend it!	2003-11-03
US	51875945	RYZ3BSZL75NY7	1567188095	755692012	101 Feng Shui Tips for Your Home (Feng Shui Series)	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Good for beginners!	I bought this book because I wanted to learn the basics of Feng Shui, and it met my needs just fine.  If you are interested in something more in depth, you might want to look elsewhere, but if you're just getting started this is a very useful book!	2003-11-03
US	51875945	R5YIG9P8K04PT	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Thoroughly Enjoyable	I like the Harry Potter books, though I only recently got in to them after seeing the two movies.  While the first few books are fairly innocent, it's obvious the novels are growing up with Harry himself.  This one was much darker than the previous books and scared me quite a bit!<br />The story was interesting, once I started reading it I couldn't put it down.  I wanted to know what crazy rule Dolores Umbridge was going to instill upon Hogwarts next.  Once Harry starts taking private lessons from Professor Snape, the book gets extremely good.  After that, I REALLY couldn't put it down!  I was slightly disappointed in the ending, it just didn't seem right to me.  Overall, great book.  While not as great as some of the others, it was definitely a fantastic read.  I can't wait for #6!	2003-10-17
US	51875945	R6K8IHZER6XWK	1556343477	325920961	Munchkins Guide to Power Gaming (Steve Jackson games)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Hilarious book for any Munchkin fan!	I've been a fan of the D&amp;D spoof game &quot;Munchkin&quot; for a long time.  It's got to be one of my all-time favorites!  Whenever my friends and I get together we play it, and it always ends up with everyone rolling around laughing.  This book is written along the same lines (published by Steve Jackson Games I believe) and is just as funny!  Anyone who has an understanding of what AD&amp;D is like will love it, even if they have never heard of the &quot;Munchkin&quot; game.  I had a great time reading it, and I bought it for several of my friends as birthday gifts recently!  Great read, well worth the price!! Would recommend to any gamer!	2003-08-25
US	51875945	R1W8EQQPOTUA2H	0764100939	643953229	Training Your Pet Ferret (Training Your Pet Series)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Some good info in there..	This isn't the best book out there for ferret information, but it does have some interesting tidbits in it and a bunch of cute pictures.  I haven't been able to successfully use many of the methods talked about in the book with my ferrets, but it's possible they work for someone else.  Every ferret is different!  I give it four stars because some of the information is good, and the pictures are adorable.  For the price, I can't complain. :)	2003-07-21
US	51875945	R21YXEFQUY0XTU	0811829111	631017468	The Dog: 100 Years of Classic Photography	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Wonderful gift for dog-lovers	I got this as a gift for a friend who loves dogs and they thought it was wonderful!  It's got tons of gorgeous pictures - even if you are not necessarily a dog person you will enjoy the skill it took to create such beautiful images.	2003-07-20
US	51875945	R19UCMW1AWKNLK	0688161499	751658546	The Ultimate Ice Cream Book: Over 500 Ice Creams, Sorbets, Granitas, Drinks, And More	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Great gift - for a friend or yourself!	I saw this book on a friend's wishlist and got it for them for Christmas.  I flipped through it when I got it and decided I had to get one for myself!  Has tons of recipes in it, even some really off-the-wall types I probably will never try.  The &quot;normal&quot; flavors are all excellent and I plan on trying a few of the slightly different ones. ;) If someone you know is getting an ice cream maker, this makes a great gift (especially if you put this with the Ben &amp; Jerry's Ice Cream cookbook).	2003-07-20
US	51875945	R3LYL38U4ZOEEN	0812097122	236333250	Turtles and Tortoises (Complete Pet Owner's Manuals)	Books	5	15	18	N	Y	Great resource for the new turtle owner	When I got my turtle, Tim, I didn't know a thing about turtles - so I got this book as well as did a ton of research online.  This book has TONS of good information (and pictures) about how to care for and house turtles.  My turtle is several years old now, and is very happy and healthy.  I recommend this to anyone who is looking to get a pet turtle.  The reality of turtle-keeping is that it is a LOT of work.  Turtles are dirty, and even with high powered filters their tanks need constant cleaning.  I didn't know what I was getting in to, but it's worth the effort!  Turtles are wonderful pets, and this book will give you all the basic information you need to know.	2003-07-20
US	51875945	R7JSEJ8QLWNBD	0142003514	343739022	Coffee, Tea or Me? The Uninhibited Memoirs of Two Airline Stewardesses	Books	4	23	32	N	Y	Amusing read...	I don't know why I got this book, maybe the title grabbed my attention.  I thought it would be interesting to read about life as a stewardess back in the 60's, when it was so glamorous.  The book is choc full of anecdotes (sp?) about passengers and captains.  I've really enjoyed reading about Trudy and Rachel's escapades, especially the chapter about their &quot;basic training&quot; like stewardess school.  I haven't finished the book, but I am about 80% through it.  I pick it up every once in awhile and read a chapter here and there.  It's not like a novel in that I want to read the entire thing to see what happens.  Overall I recommend it with 4 stars, I've gotten quite a lot of enjoyment in reading it and find it to be well worth the money spent.	2003-07-17
US	51875945	R3A8R3JYQX1S22	0738857424	527114141	Army Basic Training: Be Smart, Be Ready	Books	4	8	12	N	Y	Decent resource	I bought this book before I left for basic training last year and scoured it for information.  The book is pretty thorough as far as what you'll be doing when you get to basic, and what kind of shape you have to be in.  I believe it also has an exercise plan to get in shape for basic - though I could be wrong. It has been about 10 months since I read the book.  :)<br />The biggest thing to realize about basic training (and the army in general it seems) is that it's all a mind game.  If you can get in the right mental state, the physical stuff is no problem.  You will do enough physical stuff while in basic so that passing your PT test at the end won't be a problem.  I started basic doing 2 pushups, 11 situps and a 22 minute run - by the time I finished I was almost maxed on pushups, and was passing AIT standards in situps and the run.  My PT score was well over 200 (only need 180 to pass AIT, 150 to pass basic).  Getting yourself in the right mindset is the most important thing.  The drill sergeants will try and mess with your head, and so will your fellow soldiers.  Books like this emphasize the physical aspect of basic training, and I wish they put a LOT more time and effort in to the mental part - which is why I gave this one 4 stars instead of 5.	2003-07-17
US	51875945	R14UI8WAKPC7D4	0060515597	161203084	Body for Life Success Journal	Books	5	74	75	N	Y	Keeping records will help you meet your goal!	My fiance did one challenge of BFL while I was away at basic training, and since I've gotten back we've started on challenge number 2.  He lost 40 pounds of fat in the first challenge and gained quite a bit of muscle mass (drool!).  This journal helps you keep track of what you're doing exercise-wise each day, which in turn helps you keep to the program and meet your goals.<br />My only complaint about the whole BFL program is the constant pressure by the journal and book to recruit your friends in to it.  It has a \\"daily goal\\" of encouraging your friends to do BFL, or encouraging them while they're on it.  I guess it's a marketing ploy to get more people to buy the books and journals.  I do recommend the program to my friends, but I don't fill out that part of the journal every day.  There are also some other parts of the journal that are tedious.  I concentrate on filling out the parts dealing with exercise and food/water - and leave the other parts blank.	2003-07-17
US	51875945	R1UOIO4Y35KH64	0761530185	217172529	Pool of Radiance: Ruins of Myth Drannor: Prima's Official Strategy Guide	Books	5	3	4	N	N	So helpful!	I was having trouble with Pool of Radiance because there is SO much to do and everything is so spread out.  I like to do all the quests and see and experience as much as possible.  I got the book for the maps, so I could make sure I got to everything in the game.  The book is incredibly useful for that - it has extremely detailed maps and tells you about every single creature/quest/item there is to find and experience in each section of the game.<br />It also does a pretty good job of describing the characters/skills/traits/etc... but I'm not much of a min-maxer, I just like to play the game.  I give it five stars because it did exactly what I wanted it to do - gave me a map and some direction for playing.	2003-07-17
US	51875945	RH8YP0GENCC8V	0894803123	398952310	Ben & Jerry's Homemade Ice Cream & Dessert Book	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	MMm... Phish Food!	This book is amazing!  I have a fetish for Ben and Jerry's ice cream - so when I bought myself an ice cream maker I got this book to go along with it.  It's easy to understand and has TONS of Ben and Jerry's ice cream recipes in it.  Definitely recommend to anyone, and I have bought it for several people as gifts!  So far, everyone loves it. :D	2003-07-17
US	51875945	R3DAUKNN4HKAGK	0762710497	826679003	Hawaii Off the Beaten Path, 5th: A Guide to Unique Places (Off the Beaten Path Series)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Nice resource	I got this book for my mom, who was planning a trip to Hawaii.  She has been before, so I thought she might want to see some of the &quot;off the beaten path&quot; sights, instead of the usual tourist stuff.  There were a lot of interesting things in the book, though it wasn't as in depth as I was hoping for.  Definitely worth taking a look at - I plan on borrowing it before my own trip to Hawaii. :)	2003-07-16
US	51875945	RW842J6QQODXW	0761541381	601320954	The Sims Box Set 1 thru 5 (Prima's Official Strategy Guide)	Books	3	19	22	N	Y	Some good, some bad	Ok, the bad stuff first - which has been mentioned a lot here.  The books are shrunk down to a much smaller size than your average strategy guide, so the pictures and illustrations are really difficult to see.  Second, the first half of each book is the same in all five - just basic info about the Sims.  So there is a lot of wasted space and material you have to skip over to get the new information on whatever expansion pack the book is for.<br />The books small size makes them easier to store though, they can even sit on a bookshelf in front of all the other strategy guide since they are so much smaller.  They also come in a sleeve so that they all stay together nicely.  While most of the information is repeated in each book, there is a good amount of new information that is really useful - even for long-time Sims players.  Every time I open up the books I learn something new, and I've been playing the Sims for several years now.<br />Overall, for the price I can't complain too much.  The good stuff is better than the bad, by far.  Definitely would recommend to any Sims addict looking to learn some new tips and tricks.	2003-07-14
US	51875945	R16N7DB0DZSBOD	0816710473	192219818	Everyday Friends	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Wonderful story!	This is my all-time favorite horse book (fictional).  It's a wonderful story and the horse facts are the most realistic in any book I've ever read.<br />It starts off with Marcy, an only child, who loses her long-time best friend to the 'cool' crowd.  She ends up meeting the new girl, Nat, who is a horse-nut and starts taking learning to ride on Nat's horse, under the instruction of Nat's bohemian mother.<br />The book continues on with Marcy going to her first horse show, then her first big time horse show.  She also learns some things about Nat that threaten their friendship.<br />The story is just great, I can't say enough about it.  Being a horse person myself, I love how accurate it is.  Most horse books really screw up what horse shows are like - this one has it down pat, including correct class names.<br />Anyways, I would highly recommend to any horse-crazy teen looking for something a little different than the Saddle Club/Thoroughbred books.  Those are good in their own right, but this book (while a little old now) is much more realistic and better.	2003-07-14
US	51875945	R1ZYGWQJLYQ0N4	055349242X	22709821	The Long Ride (Pine Hollow, Book 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Slightly boring :/	I've been reading the Saddle Club books since I was a kid (now 22 years old).  I still read them on occasion, as I'll always have a love for Stevie, Lisa, Carole and all the other characters at Pine Hollow.  I found out about the Pine Hollow series, so I bought the first book.  From the back it sounds like it starts when Lisa leaves for California (stresses that her relationship might not last the summer), talks about a car accident leaving a girl almost dead... and the prologue confirms that.  A good 3/4+ of the book is backstory taking place BEFORE the car accident and Lisa leaving.  The car accident finally happens, then there is just one or two chapters after that.  Weeks fly by and TONS of important stuff happens and is just skimmed over.  I would have preferred more depth to that area of the book, or to have left it out completely.  I was interested in the parts about Stevie getting her job and Carole working at the stable.  I did find Lisa and Alex's relationship to be kind of unbelievable.  I didn't buy in to it at all.  Maybe I will after I read more of the books in the series.  Overall, not bad - just not what I was expecting from the back of the book.	2003-07-10
US	51875945	R3VEF508GWV7DM	0399149392	363923998	Chesapeake Blue (Quinn Brothers)	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	Not as good as the original trilogy...	I read the Cheasapeake Bay trilogy and loved it.  All three brothers were extremely interesting, as well as all of their love interests.  This book, about grown-up Seth, isn't quite as good.  Don't get me wrong, I still liked it - I just don't feel it was quite up to Nora Roberts usual standards.  I've read dozens of her books, and this is probably one of the ones I liked the least.  It was hard for me to get in to (normally I get so involved in her books I finish them in one sitting!), it took me a good 2-3 weeks to read the whole thing.  I got sick of the whole Gloria thing halfway through the book, it was just way overdone.  I liked Seth and Dru together, though the best parts of the book for me were the scenes at the house on the lake with the whole family.  I got attached to them in the previous books, and to me they are far more interesting than Seth and Dru and Gloria.	2003-07-10
US	51875945	R3O0PUALZXAMWF	0440241162	273850052	Nerd in Shining Armor	Books	3	5	7	N	Y	Cute.. but so cliche	I got this book solely because of the title.  I started reading it and I thought it was kind of cute.  The writing is pretty good, and overall the book flows well.<br />My biggest problem is that the entire book has no guts - everything is a copout.  Instead of making the hot girl fall for a true nerd, the &quot;nerd&quot; turns out to be just like in the movies, a total babe with his glasses and shirt off.  Just like in the movies how the &quot;nerd&quot; girl wears glasses, a ponytail and overalls - the minute she lets her hair down she's hot.  When in reality, she's hot with the glasses and ponytail!  Complete copout on the writer's part.  And the &quot;nerd,&quot; Jack, doesn't dress bad because he's a nerd, he dresses bad cause he is colorblind.  Another copout.  I would have preferred to see the sophiscated hot women fall for a true nerd.  But maybe that's just me? :)<br />The storyline is a little farfetched, but I don't mind too much.  I think it's a little unbelievable that Nick and Gen/Jack end up on the same island (especially since he jumped out of the plane WAY before they crashlanded!), and that Nick escapes the hospital so easily.  Anything for confrontation I guess!  I thought the romance between Gen and Jack was really cute, especially the insecurities they had about each other.  It was fun to read about their adventures on the island, especially their &quot;romance&quot; scenes.<br />Overall, the book wasn't bad.  I expected better, but I wasn't completely disappointed. :)	2003-07-10
