US	51889411	R20RLXPMBEO4HZ	063406021X	830979084	2: The Real Book - Volume II: C Edition (Fake Book)	Books	5	45	45	N	N	Essential and Convenient ! ! !	If you're a student of Jazz, or a serious Jazz musician, while the REAL BOOK V.1 set the standard for years, V2 is the one that I find REALLY has the best tunes (and even in its bootleg edition was written with much better changes.)  - - I host and play up to 300 sessions a year and would go so far as to say that not only does the bulk of my repoitoire come from the REAL BOOK SERIES (1, 2 and 3) but that a very high portion has come from V2, especially considering that until this \\"legal\\" edition it was twice as hard to find as the hard to find V1.  Trust me on this... If you live in terror of playing or hosting a session and having millions of tunes thrown at you that you don't know, get these three books... In your spare time work on the tunes, and when you're on the bandstand make sure all three are within convenient reach.	2005-10-03
US	51889411	R3AZ6WD7TJW3LM	1565117131	634861039	Yiddish Radio Project: Stories from the Golden Age of Yiddish Radio	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Phenomenal Documentary of a Long Lost Era...	Fortunately, if you've forgotten all the Yiddish you grew up hearing, or never grew up hearing Yiddish at all, you'll still be able to enjoy this INCREDIBLE radio documentary about the (virtually) lost world of Jewish/Yiddish radio (in NYC) and vanishing Yiddish-American culture in general.  Enlisting top name actors (such as Eli Wallach, Carl Reiner, Jerry Stiller, Christopher Lloyd and others) for the first time you can hear the famous MO AND JOE Barton Brother's parody fully translated in all its blue galore... you meet a whole case of long gone, recently gone and a few still living charactors from one men ad agencies and program directors, Yiddish Swing singers, a RABBI who was the first JUDGE WAPNER long before JUDGE WAPNER, hear a radio broadcast in which a holocaust survival is reunited with his father in a THIS IS YOUR LIFE type broadcast, a Yiddish soap opera type radio drama fully re-enacted in English, and commercials for products anyone who grew up in a Jewish household will be quite familiar with (and shocked at the sales tactics... wow whoever knew that Matzah had more powers than a York Peppermint Patty !)  - - The story is brilliantly told, through actually recordings, re-enactments in English, and narratives by those who lived it.  - - I don't this this INCREDIBLE documentary won any awards, but it should have...  It tells lot's of stories and is a peak into a world nostalgic for some, long forgotten by others... and for those who grew up in the \\"post assimilation era\\" or who aren't even Jewish, the documentary is an amazing look into the challenges of one ethnic culture balancing between its own identity and the influences of assimilating and incorporating the influences of a then new World for most Jews called America.<br /><br />Great for repeated listening, so definitely worth getting ! ! !  This is NPR at its best !	2005-10-02
US	51889411	RI35GULLVRMXM	0634060384	187428835	The Real Book: Sixth Edition	Books	5	53	56	N	Y	No honor among thieves... still ! ! ! !	For years, this underground fake book was THE book you had to have to survive on any professional straight Jazz bandstand... and it was tough to find, not to mention expensive.  So underground you had to whisper for it at the counter of only the hippest music shops in town and if no one was looking for thirty bucks or so they'd get you a copy... (I'm not joking !) Then it began floating around the net, and for some reason each time the sites would get shut down... and now finally, a \\"legit\\" copy is available.  Though perhaps we'll never know the full story of just who exactly wrote it and where he/she/they lived... the fact is that the book (atleast for the time being) is now available... ironically by HAL LEONARD, the publishing company that tended to publish all those other FAKE BOOKS for years that made the REAL BOOK so appreciated (LEONARD's books tend to have great tune selections, but some of the worst changes in the world... in contrast, the REAL BOOK's sheets, though not perfect are usually a safe call when you're called up to blow, also unlike Scher's commercially available THE NEW REAL BOOK they're a lot more practical (i.e. you take one glimpse at the sheet and the form is staring right back at'cha !) - - One more funny ironic point, even if the anonymous author/authors were involved in this project its funny because I guess they'll now be pursuing people who BOOTLEG their books... outlaws joining the system... that's progress for ya !<br /><br />All in all, books 1 and 2 are essential purchases (I pray 3 will become available too.)  I actually tend to play more tunes from Book 2 which includes JEANINE, INDIANA, BYE BYE BLACKBIRD, NEARNESS OF YOU, however REAL BOOK I set the standard of what tunes we should play at our sessions.  If there's any fault its the overdependence of musicians on it, to the point that many musicians simply don't learn equally important tunes found outside it (even though it does not include EVERY essential standard, it definitely gives you more than enough to survive...) but the fact is, its must have material... if you don't have it, go out and get it... unless you have a perfect ear and most the tunes already learned and memorized, you can't really call yourself a pro without it and will find yourselves embaressed at most sessions everytime a tune (9 times out of 10 at some sessions) is called from this book !you more than enough to survive...) but the fact is, its must have material... if you don't have it, go out and get it... unless you have a perfect ear and most the tunes already learned and memorized, you can't really call yourself a pro without it and will find yourselves embaressed at most sessions everytime a tune (9 times out of 10 at some sessions) is called from this book !	2005-05-24
US	51889411	REHB0PWG4J4K3	0375410309	699349813	Seriously Funny: The Rebel Comedians of the 1950s and 1960s	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Brilliant !	After reading this book, and RAISED ON RADIO I'm convinced... Nachman is a brilliant chronicaller of generations, passioniate and on such a mission his enthuisiasm gushes through with each Peabody Award waiting to happen phrase whether or not you share his enthuisiasm.  - - Like RAISED ON RADIO, the book is neither definitive nor wishy-washy either.  The chapters simply paint portraits of the people. In fact, the book goes a bit DEEPER into the subject manner than RAISED ON RADIO though not too deep.  Further, though Nachman did interview subjects and did research, a lot of the information isn't exactly new (atleast if you're a nerdish comedy album collector and already into what the book is about.) - - And although yes, sometimes he goes on and on to make a point, especially in the way he breaks down the personalities of the comics he analyzes, I have to say, Nachman's writing is so delightful its forgivable (whether or not some of the chapters could have been cut in half.)  Also what I like about this book is the choice of comedians go well beyond the obvious and really make you think... recognizing not just the Lenny Bruce's and Mort Sahls, but radio and TV comics that paved the way... (Bob and Ray, Ernie Kovacs and Steve Allen included !)<br /><br />All in all, this is a great book presented through the mind of a brilliant columnist... and yes NACHMAN definitely is a columnist... a master storyteller who can schpiel by the column inch and hold your attention all the way.  The only danger of reading this book is that after each chapter you want to go out and get the CDs... but with so many comedians covered, that's a lot of bread !<br /><br />Though I happen to be a fan of the topics covered in this and RAISED ON RADIO, I have to say, whatever Nachman decides to write about next, I'm fair game for it !	2005-05-07
US	51889411	R2MDCIBT0IY0W	0520223039	297671974	Raised on Radio	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Relive the days when radio was king...	I really love this book... Its a great read... neither overly scholarly (as in Zzzzzzzzzzzzz...) nor overly wishy washy like some titles that might come to mind.  Its just one of those books you can sit back, read and enjoy.  In the process you'll get a great overview of the rise and fall of radio... you'll meet the stars and the personality in front of and behind the mic, from the actors and executives, right down to the writers and sound effects men.  - - I'm not sure if one could call it definitive... but for sure whether its definitive or not, it tells the story well and is re-readable as many of those classic radio shows are still relistenable.  - - All in all, if you're a die hard &quot;OTR&quot; buff and want to know who played so and so in episode 154 of a certain radio show, its original airdate, and when it re-aired... the book probably isn't for you...  - - If, however, to hear the story of radio as a whole, relive this golden age, and experience it not only from the perspective of the people who made it, and the generation that grew up on it this is one must have piece of literature - - (...to boot, almost all of my favorite radio shows were covered... atleast in brief !)	2003-11-18
US	51889411	R3DBZ30E08NFL5	006001203X	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	5	23	26	N	Y	Unbelievable !	I've been on the Atkins Diet for almost a half a year, and it has worked wonders for me...  In addition to losing close to 60 lbs, I'm off a million different pills for a million different problems (from diabetes, to gout to nervous stomach), my blood sugar is back to normal and I'm searing with energy - -most phenomenally, I am no longer constantly hungry... The theory in part behind this diet is that in stabilizing your blood sugar, you stabilize your appetite.  - - Of course, the Atkins Diet has its skeptics... but the most amazing thing is that most of them critisize the diet based on &quot;rumors&quot; about it, not the truth... the most amazing thing you discover when you read the book that the Atkins diet is NOT a junk food diet.  Little by little the diet tricks you into chosing foods that are natural, healthy and unprocessed.  - - Junk carbohydrates are replaced by healthy nuts, berries and greens...  6 months into the diet, I am exercising more and eating more vegetables than I have in ages...  If for some reason you've been led to believe that the Atkins diet is a dangerous no-carbohydrate all cheeseburger no vegetable diet, you've definitely been mislead and should read the book...  I believe this diet saved my life... even if it didn't it has greatly improved the quality of it... and maybe it will yours !	2003-06-26
US	51889411	R2KXA8GKQVRK7O	0971457018	423452865	The Bickersons Scripts	Books	5	4	4	N	N	OTR Must Have ! ! !	This is the best book of scripts I've ever read! Philip Rapp was a master of radio comedy and it's good to see that there's finally a book of this material out on the market. With<br />every line you read you can hear the shrew Frances Langford egging poor husband Don Ameche to get out of bed at 3 in the morning to do something foolish like make out a will or find the cat a husband. A must have for the ture diehard Bickersons/OTR buff !	2003-02-02
US	51889411	RI3DM1BKDVTVZ	0711908419	742756134	Modern Jazz Piano: A Study in Harmony and Improvisation	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Jazz Piano in a Nutshell	This is a really nice down to earth introduction to Jazz piano in that its very concise and has the meat and potatoes.  ... the plus side of Waite's Modern Jazz Piano is that it is perfectly suitable for players just making the transition to Jazz piano.  It is focused and to the point and easy to get through.<br />... if you're at the point where you can't really play play tunes from fake books (meaning to make up your own chord voicings and improvisations, and being able to do so in a systematic matter, not just by luck), then this book would be a great start.&lt;P...In summary, a book like Modern Jazz Piano represents a good first step for any student interested in making the leap into the world of modern Jazz improv...  It is practical and focused, but only represents an initial step in a long but rewarding lifelong process... though by no means thorough, it is definitely a solid down to earth step in the right direction !	2003-01-05
US	51889411	RGMD3TIZ9AT8L	0825672279	2204612	Soulsville, U.S.A.: The Story of Stax Records	Books	5	31	32	N	N	The problem with this book is...	The problem with this darn book is that once you pick it up, you're going to find yourself going on a CD buying binge well before you're half way through the book.  - - Let's face it... Stax and Memphis Shoals = memories... and this is definitely a pretty funky strut down memory lane... the whole story, from the label's humble beginings in the mid '50s, an old movie theatre and record store, the golden era of Otis Redding, The Bar -Kays and M.G.s, to the superstar meglomaniacical rise of Hot Buttered Soul - - the Wattstax movie... and eventually, the infighting and financial woes that left the great soul machine screwed and in bankruptcy('circa '75).  This isn't just a cute tabletop book with pictures of your favorite stars and cute trivial snippets (come to think of it, there's no big discography in the back !)- - its a well researched book that tells a great American/Afro-American story... (think of it, a racially integrated record label in the South circa the early '60s and moving on into the militant '70s that managed to turn the Northern recording establishment on its side !) It really gives you a glimpse of what was going on behind the scenes, how the sound evolved and the various personalities entered into the sphere and did their thing...  the conflicts, the struggles, the accomplishments and the whole scene, bottom up... very tough to put down. Heck, they ought to turn it into a movie. - - If you consider yourself a STAX nut now... trust me, by the time you finish this book, you'll be a madman...  spare yourself the wait... you might as well get the box sets while you still have the cash... this book is going to set you on a Stax jones...  and well written enough that its definitely a keeper !	2003-01-04
US	51889411	R4B1P4X493AXX	0465049087	441473878	Nazi Terror: The Gestapo, Jews, and Ordinary Germans	Books	4	4	5	N	N	You may or may not agree with the thesis but...	I have to say, I usually try to avoid purchasing books the size of phone books because I know I'll never have the time to finish them... this book, which I bought at Heathrow Airport and was at the half way point up to return to the US was definitely an engaging read... the gist of it was that on one hand the Gestapo was not all knowing and all powerful, and on the other hand not all Germans bought into the Nazi ideology - - nor did most resist.... the strongest arguement of the book being, that the Nazis were careful not to give ordinary German citizens too much reason to resist.  The book seems to demonstrate how the Nazi state was able to maintain a passive population, even when attacking institutions such as the church that most ordinary Germans supported - - The regime, according to the book functioned to a large extent not as the Soviet State did (by actively spying on and hunting down its enemies) but instead by various members of the community denuncing other members of the community, often for selfish and frivolous reasons, as well as love and business rivalries... Throughout the Nazi reign, the Gestapo has its priorities and directives, and the population is kept in hand through the guise of \\"legal positivism\\" - - an idea that, yes, Hitler may have been a raving lunatic, but that the courts, even police were there to protecting them.  The unwritten rule being (for Germans) that if you didn't rock the boat, life would be fine... - - In fact, ordinary Germans according to the arguement of the book were most likely to have cases dropped before reaching courts... howevever individuals with \\"one strike\\" against them (a previous criminal record, or being a targeted group such as Jews, Jehovah's Witnesses, Homoseuals etc.) were more likely to be sent to prison, or dealt with outside the legal system and sent to concentration camps.  They however, only represented a small portion of the population.  - - The book argues, that by presenting an almost \\"benevolent\\" face the German population and even many Jews were fooled (not fleeing Germany when they had the chance sensing things would pass.)  - - by acting in such a calculated matter, ordinary Germans were able to live with \\"the rumors\\" - - The arguement is most convincing when the author examines the conflict between the Catholic Church and the Nazi State... for example, did the Catholic Church conform or simply walk a fine line ?  The anecdotal and statistical information raises many questions...  Overall, this is a topic that even 60 years later will raise painful and heated debate... this book however, is interesting, in that only like a small handful of other books attempts to examine the functioning of ordinary citizens and social institutions during the reign in an effort to gain a deeper understanding of one of the darkest eras in modern history - - even more important, one should be lead to ask if even we would be able to accept similar social evils being dished out in our own society, so long as we ourselves felt safe from the injustice and told the right stories...ce the German population and even many Jews were fooled (not fleeing Germany when they had the chance sensing things would pass.)  - - by acting in such a calculated matter, ordinary Germans were able to live with \\"the rumors\\" - - The arguement is most convincing when the author examines the conflict between the Catholic Church and the Nazi State... for example, did the Catholic Church conform or simply walk a fine line ?  The anecdotal and statistical information raises many questions...  Overall, this is a topic that even 60 years later will raise painful and heated debate... this book however, is interesting, in that only like a small handful of other books attempts to examine the functioning of ordinary citizens and social institutions during the reign in an effort to gain a deeper understanding of one of the darkest eras in modern history - - even more important, one should be lead to ask if even we would be able to accept similar social evils being dished out in our own society, so long as we ourselves felt safe from the injustice and told the right stories...	2002-12-04
US	51889411	R3C194EUZ2G1BJ	0684845598	273724840	Hardball: How Politics Is Played, Told by One Who Knows the Game	Books	5	25	31	N	N	How To Win Friends and Influence People - - Hardball style !	This book has often been described as Machiavelli for the '90s and beyond.  One might even joke the cynical side of Dale Carnegie's \\"How To Win Friend's and Influence People\\" - - A brilliant story teller, Chris Matthews has written a book that to this day if actually read transcends his controversial personality and is an indepth study of how people get ahead... its not just a book for politicians - - everyone should read it - - whether viewed as a study of greed, or a guide to how to get ahead in life, Matthews makes some brilliant observations - - learned from a wide variety of political personae on all sides of the ideological coin, and proving the one thing that every political ideologue in Washington has in common - - a modus of operendi relating to their success based on their ability to pull people's strings. - - In essence, Hardball is a study of just this - - the art of pulling people's strings by understanding what makes them tick, incuring favor, indebting them to you (often by having *them* do *you* favor !) and playing by certain rules.  - - People politics are key to the game of life in any field (whether or not you like the game.)<br />On his TV show, Chris Matthews comes across as a cranky anti-intellectual motor mouth - - one who can have 7 guests, and not a single one will get a word in likewise...  The myth of Chris Matthews is best characterized by SNL's Darell Hammond's routine where he's always cutting people off with that hillarious, \\"Yeah... yeah... yeah... yeah.. shut up !\\"<br />In fact, it was through SNL that I actually began tuning into Chris's show - - and I actually took a liking to him...  Rather than finding him to be \\"anti-intellectual\\", I found him \\"anti-rhetoric\\" - - On the surface it sounds like he's hostile, rude and won't let his guests get in a word likewise, but if you listen in closely, what he does is not allow his guests (who are ALL in the P.R. game some way or another) to lay on their carefully rehearsed soundbits...  He listens when they shoot straight, but all hell breaks lose when they start to launch into the same diatribe that they delivered on \\"Meet The Press\\" - -  when he questions them, rather than eliciting the rhetoric talk show hosts are expected to do, he often lays their own rhetoric on them  and cuts them off when they go for their carefully rehearsed speeches.  - - After reading this book, it seems clear that Chris Matthews isn't Darell Hammond's cranky old big mouth... the truth is, he knows the game and is having fun throwing side pitches - - in reality, few will fluster or break down and cry (most simply resort to doing little other than repeating themselves over an over), but I think being able to outmouth any powerhouse with a big ceeeeeeegar is somewhat of a fete in itself.<br />Incidentally, despite the rumors, its hillarious to find out that he was actuall Tip O'Neil's right hand man, and practically learned the game from the old Democratic sage of Capitol Hill ! ! !<br />Long after Chris's stint as a popular cable TV show talk show host is forgotten, this book will be mandatory reading at high schools, colleges and in the game of life (of course, played hardball style !)listens when they shoot straight, but all hell breaks lose when they start to launch into the same diatribe that they delivered on \\"Meet The Press\\" - -  when he questions them, rather than eliciting the rhetoric talk show hosts are expected to do, he often lays their own rhetoric on them  and cuts them off when they go for their carefully rehearsed speeches.  - - After reading this book, it seems clear that Chris Matthews isn't Darell Hammond's cranky old big mouth... the truth is, he knows the game and is having fun throwing side pitches - - in reality, few will fluster or break down and cry (most simply resort to doing little other than repeating themselves over an over), but I think being able to outmouth any powerhouse with a big ceeeeeeegar is somewhat of a fete in itself.   <br />Incidentally, despite the rumors, its hillarious to find out that he was actuall Tip O'Neil's right hand man, and practically learned the game from the old Democratic sage of Capitol Hill ! ! !<br />Long after Chris's stint as a popular cable TV show talk show host is forgotten, this book will be mandatory reading at high schools, colleges and in the game of life (of course, played hardball style !)	2002-09-02
US	51889411	R1WY7HMBU4HF8C	0819564338	653999255	Papa, Play for Me: The Autobiography of Mickey Katz	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Side splitting funny ! ! !	Its great to see this book back in print... I must have read it over 18 years ago... it was hillarious then, and its just as funny now... I dare say almost as funny as those old 45's of his I grew up listening to.  In fact, I'm happy that a \\"Greatest Hits\\" CD has been released, but it made me miss all those other 45s that I borrowed from my father's collection (and seem to have been borrowed back - - I can't find them !)<br />Mickey Katz was a brilliant story teller...  the book is packed with jokes and anecdotes - - even a bit of off risque humor here and there...  and you can almost hear him talking in that nasal half all American/half Yiddish accent.<br />Of course, someone had to bring it up to date... Josh Kun offers a \\"serious\\" and scholarly social commentary on the significance of Mickey Katz in Jewish society and American life.  - - (Insightful, but Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz....)  once Mickey Katz steps in though, get ready for an incredible read... if you grew up in a traditional Jewish family, it'll bring back not only memories, but make you laugh your tookus off... and if you didn't... its still hillarious - - from stories of traditional Mexican musicians in Sombreros playing Klezmor when Mickey Katz's Yiddish parody of Tico Tico actually made him a Latin celebrity, to the story about the guy in the audience at the Jean Harlow show's with the rain coat who'd put on a show of his own...<br />Overall, this is one of those can't put down, laugh outloud books...  (Wish he left some video footage behind... to the best of my knowledge he only appeared briefly in one film... playing clarinet for about 7 seconds in Thoroughly Modern Millie.)	2002-07-16
US	51889411	R2U1NIH61H477I	1566491576	419460360	Dig Infinity!: The Life and Art of Lord Buckley	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Lord Buckley Lives ! ! !	I have to give this book 5 stars on the subject alone.  Its about time that someone sat down and took the time and effort to let Lord Buckley's story be told once again.  - - I do have a problem with the narrative style of the book, but its probably moreso a matter of taste...  Rather than telling the story, the author basically reprints one interview after another... and kinda pastes his sources together so Lord Buckley's story is told in the interviewee's own words...  Many of these interviews come straight from the pages of magazines and radio interviews with people who knew him and they're strung together to create a sense of a coherent dialogue.  The end result... some fascinating stories (I almost fell off the bed in laughter a few times... Lord Buckley's sick off stage pranks and antics often rivaled his actual act) but lot of repetition and choppy reading.  I also felt that the author merely glanced over his childhood and evolution into the entertainment world, though in all fairness much of the information has probabably been lost to posterity.  - - Overall, its a fascinating subject, the CD alone is worth the cost of the book...  and the book really will pull you into Lord Buckley's sick world.  - - Interviewees seem to include a cast of thousands... from Royal Court members to hiers of the legacy from the Rock and Roll and Comedy World...  Move over Lenny Bruce, His Lordship is back ! ! !<br />CD includes some interviews by Studs Turkel, The Nazz, Murder, Ode to a Policeman... about 34 minutes... Well worth it !  - -	2002-05-14
US	51889411	R9OSR9RJ13FRI	1883217040	663370292	The Jazz Theory Book	Books	5	182	194	N	N	Finally, someone has done it ! ! !	There was a time when it was a common adage that Jazz can't be taught. You were either born with it, or were lucky enough to pick it up... to some extent that is true... as there is a time you have to lift your head from the books and learn on the bandstand... but the question is how to get to that point - - the point where you can benefit from lead sheets or learning off of records, or by communicating with other musicians ?<br />For many years, a lot of the &quot;Jazz&quot; educational material on the market was either antequated by the time of publication (remember going into music shops to find &quot;modern&quot; piano books that would teach you how to play stride version of Honeysuckle Rose and the Maple Leaf Rag?)... other books contained misleading information, or some of the better ones required technical reading skills (as well as hand spands and chops) that few Jazz masters themselves were known to possess (!) - - Finally, over the years, a few breakthroughs... two of the earliest that come to mind would include books by David Baker and John Mehegan. - - But most of us still wondered, &quot;When is somebody going to write *the book* ?&quot; - - ...finally someone did.<br />The publication of this book has launched Jazz education into the modern era... Very readable, well presented, modern, practical, never over academic or esoteric, and requiring the most minimal amount of reading of musical notation possible - - and written for a generation raised on Miles Davis and John Coltrane not Fats Waller and Louis Armstrong (as great as they were.)<br />Combining this book with the right listening, hands on playing (check out some of the Aebersold play-a-longs) and the right fake book... in a situation where a great Jazz teacher might not be so available or affordable, with the right attitude (check out Berliner's Thinking In Jazz) - - this book is your spiral bound musical conservatory, with advice relevent to players of all levels... From those basic intervals, scales, chord voicings and changes that all Jazz students learn in their first lessons, to the insight required to &quot;put it all together&quot; - - This is a great reference for everyone, from the begining student, the aspiring amateur trying to get into a program (or take his or her playing to the next level)... to the seasoned veteran who'd like to learn the language and reason and gain better insight into what he or she is playing and hearing in order to grow as a musician. Regardless, this is one resource that belongs in your music learning library !scales, chord voicings and changes that all Jazz students learn in their first lessons, to the insight required to &quot;put it all together&quot; - - This is a great reference for everyone, from the begining student, the aspiring amateur trying to get into a program (or take his or her playing to the next level)... to the seasoned veteran who'd like to learn the language and reason and gain better insight into what he or she is playing and hearing in order to grow as a musician. Regardless, this is one resource that belongs in your music learning library !	2001-12-14
US	51889411	R1PNMRBTULKEZ0	B000001O5W	745343694	Vol. 76, How To Learn Tunes: A Jazz Musician's Survival Guide (Book & CD Set)	Books	5	51	52	N	N	Essential Took When It Comes To Learning To Hang...	Remember when you walked into your first Jam session (or perhaps you're still yet to) and you were simply baffled how the cats knew just about (if not every) tune thrown at them... and in any key called... and you were thinking, \\"Jeez, how the heck did they do that ?\\"  Well, this book attempts to answer that question.  The answer in a nutshell is that tunes tend to follow forms... certain changes, certain bridges, and tunes with the same changes as other tunes... if you know those forms, and someone calls a tune you don't know, you lean over, and the cat next to you says, \\"Oh, its just * * changes...\\" - - The leader counts, and everyone is amazed how you were able to play it on the spot.<br />If you're already to the point where you understand how to play tunes - - you know your II V progressions, can play Blues, Rhythm Changes, handle a fake book, or are well on your way to it, but find yourself struggling when tunes are called, this book is might be what you need.  It will break you free of simply reading chords from the book, and get you seeing where things are going - - at which point, rather than learning one tune at a time, every tune you learn will be like learning a 100 others (of course, if you hang out at the same session long enough, you'll find out that everybody calls the (...) same dozen or so tunes week after week... so maybe you don't have to memorize the basic 100 or so anyway...)<br />Whatever the case, if you've ever found yourself sweating on a gig or at a session, this book might be just what the doctor ordered - - and even if you're like me, and have the memory retention of a pet rock... it'll still make it easier to follow the written changes when they're thrown at you...  definitely an essential learning resource for the aspiring student of Jazz !	2001-12-14
US	51889411	R10UB57WRFHJ7G	0691086796	317959176	Jazz Age Jews.	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Story of the  Forging of the Jewish American Identity !	This is one of those books that's virtually impossible to put down once you've started.  With an anecdotally proven thesis (that I happen to agree with strongly) whether you agree with it or not, it definitely gets you thinking... not so much about why the three individuals chosen identified with the subcultures they did, but why they received such strong support in the community.  One might wonder though whether is was what they stood for, or really, simply &quot;colorful&quot; characters simply &quot;making it&quot; by becoming celebrities - - even if some of some of what they did was a &quot;shande&quot;.  Still, it is part of the Jewish conscience to integrate into American society yet &quot;feel&quot; if not be somewhat of an outsider, so perhaps they were the ultimate symbol of this - - Jews living the American dream... yet living on the fringes of it as well.<br />Written like an E.L. Doctoreau novel, Alexander tells the stories with ease and insight, painting great portraits of the men and the era...  This is one of those books you lend out to all your friends, and buy new new copies when they're not returned when you get that inevitable urge to read it again !	2001-11-26
US	51889411	R6SO1D4QED2HD	1560251158	989507765	James Brown: The Godfather of Soul	Books	5	9	9	N	N	JB Dancer, Your Life Is Calling (!)	I'm usually not so crazy about Star Biographies... for a variety of reasons, they're usually attention getting &quot;feel bad for me&quot; vs. &quot;worship me&quot; ploys taken from the pages of magazines atleast I wouldn't be caught dead reading outside of a doctor's office, however - - THIS BOOK IS DIFFERENT (!)  It is enormously well written - - Though its pretty clear Bruce Tucker wrote most of it, he managed to dig down into JBs soul and convey his RAGS TO RICHES story quite convincingly, capturing his voice while telling about his rise and fall (&lt;-- the IRS and disco got him) and his come back at the time  This book is so well written  that I've actually reread it SEVERAL times since it initially came out in the mid '80s.  - - Though it is a bit ironical that JBs life would get a bit more &quot;complicated&quot; after it was written (the drugs, run-ins with the law, death of his wife etc.) it is clear that Brown &amp; Tucker have presented to the world a book that's engrossing and definitely a keeper...  It will bring a whole new meaning to the music !	2001-11-02
US	51889411	R3JAQSMPC9GGJA	047208478X	766027690	Let the Good Times Roll: The Story of Louis Jordan and His Music (The Michigan American Music Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Legendary Innovator and Entertainer Brought Back to Life !	Louis Jordan's consumate professionalism, and the clean life he lead  wouldn't make him seem to be the ideal topic of an autobiography (on the surface)...  Nevertheless, between his wit, his horn and his passionate desire not to be upstaged by ANYONE he managed to revolutionize modern music by smashing Jazz, the blues, and a bit of down home entertainment together, paving the way for what would eventually become the music known as rock and roll and R &amp; B.<br />Written in a well researched anecdotal matter, this book documents the man who was one of the biggest selling artists of his time.  His movie shorts managed to inspire an entire generation of artists who would later take his formula and create rock and roll.  In his own biography James Brown (The Godfather of Soul) rants and raves about Louis, mentioned the influence that Caldonia in particular had on his life, especially the way he'd go up and shout real high, just like Little Richard (only long before Little Richard.)<br />In this book you will meet many legendary entertainers (now virtually forgotten) and find out what it was like to be an entertainer of color in some very difficult, yet changing and turbulent times...  and in particular the riff between him and many of the younger musicians who's music he absorbed but often accused him of being an &quot;uncle Tom&quot; for his whimsical style of performing.- - You'll find out about life on the road, the difficulty of holding together bands, and touring the chitlin' circuit in the days of segregation... and suddenly those silly songs like &quot;Ain't Nobody Here But Us Chickens&quot; and &quot;Iz You Iz&quot; will take on a whole new meaning.<br />The book contains a nice discography, about a dozen pages of pictures... including one with Dottie Smith, a member of his group who's still singing and performing here in Philadelphia, Sunday Nights at Barber's Hall and that I've sat in with on occasion.  - - John Chilton is a superior Jazz historian who's as good as collecting the facts, as telling the stories they represent ! ! !ho's as good as collecting the facts, as telling the stories they represent ! ! !	2001-11-02
US	51889411	R3U1T994QC6IT3	0226043819	225432772	Thinking in Jazz : The Infinite Art of Improvisation (Chicago Studies in Ethnomusicology Series)	Books	5	38	39	N	Y	A Monumental Breakthrough in Jazz Studies ! ! ! ! ! ! !	The blurb on the back cover of this book has a slight understatement...  It begins, &quot;A landmark in jazz studies,&quot;<br />Not since the advent of the long playing record and the publication of Leonard Feather's &quot;Encyclopedia of Jazz&quot; has anyone made such an enormous, substantive, light shedding contribution to Jazz (outside a recording studio.)  This book is a must for everyone...  and in fact, its divided into two parts... one which *is* for everyone, and goes into how musicians come up, hone their skills, learn to interact, develop and whatnot, and then the second half, which is more for musicians and features close to 400 pages of musical examples - - a text book in musical studies itself.<br />As a musician myself, I have long suspected that Jazz isn't just a bunch of patterns and scales.  It is a culture, an attitude, an approach, and way of thinking... this book not only confirms it, but it substantively will take you into the mind of its foremost vetarans and practitioners.  With its balance between information that's anecdotal as well as analytical, and Berliner's excellent writing style (despite the size of the book, he just draws you in the pages flow by one by one) - - this is must reading...<br />Almost a half a century ago Leonard Feather told us about the masters, now Berliner draws us into their minds.  It is my hope that Jazz students (and fans) alike will begin taking up this book as they begin their journeys, and as a result, it invigorates and revitalizes the music as its never been before !	2001-10-21
US	51889411	R3T9E0ELE6QZ00	B000001O5F	412599234	Vol. 57, Minor Blues IN All Keys For All Instruments (Book & CD Set)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Excellent learning tool - - Essential Jazz Form	As both a musician and a teacher, I've found myself going through two stages in life - - one getting annoyed with students who've spent a little too much time in those Aebersold play-a-longs and another, annoyed with musicians who *need* to get their hands on some of them and learn some Jazz essentials.<br />From a gigging perspective, beyond mastering the II V I progression there are three major Jazz forms that are essential to know before you hit the bandstand... major blues, minor blues and rhythm changes - - If you don't know how to play them by now, this book is an excellent starting point.<br />One of the great things about the minor blues is that there are so many ways of altering them and stretching them out... you can use substitute chords, passing chords, experiment with interesting colors and voicings... and eventually apply what you know to other tunes in minor keys.  Fans of hard bop BETTER have them down solid...  They also provide a great opportunity to practise your half diminished scales too... so if you need some schooling on the minor blues, this is definitely a nice place to start !	2001-10-21
US	51889411	R20P025Y8J73NM	082302573X	219593788	Jazz Improvisation 3: Swing And Early Progressive Piano Styles	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Revolutionary and Historical Jazz Improv Text ! ! !	First, a quick warning... this book is not for beginners or dabblers, it is very thorough, intense, and very little is simplified for folks with small hands or short attention spans. It is probably one of the most thorough yet readable documentations of Jazz Piano technique circa the '30s - '50s, but in its trueness, I imagine countless &quot;quick fix&quot; learners have wound up putting it aside indefinitely... The truth is that the era documented in the book was one that was very Darwinian in nature, especially for pianists who had to battle it out to rise to the top.  As a pianist, you couldn't make it to the top by co-existing with your fellow section members... you had to knock the other guy off the bench by playing better than him.  Finally, the '60s afforded the piano more harmonic and melodic adventureness and an economy of style where the rhythm section freed up the piano player to break free of many of the conventions documented in this very book - - a rich, full, and rhythmically strong playing style that required experience, stamina, muscles, tireless tendons plus the bedazzling ability not just to be able to play chords and modes, but to HARMONIZE melodies on the spot while playing stride style basslines (!) Fortunately (and towards the end of the book) George Shearing came along, and the 40 or so pages dedicated to his unique &quot;locked hand&quot; style made the book worth the purchase (atleast for me !)<br />Some of the language and notation might be a bit out of fashion, and the book definitely requires a lot more reading than many of today's Jazz piano students might be used to, however, anyone seeking a true and systematically presented glimpse into the influences of Teddy Wilson, Art Tatum, Bud Powell, George Shearing and Horace Silver will definitely find this book a priceless resource.	2001-08-13
US	51889411	R3LMK6HTGXA4TJ	0793525446	451132156	Hanon: The Virtuoso Pianist in Sixty Exercises, Complete (Schirmer's Library of Musical Classics, Vol. 925)	Books	5	397	411	N	N	I'll bet your piano teacher sent you over here...	As a child, I hated technical exercise books like this.  I remember the old teacher with the ruler, the Bartok book, the red pen, the check marks the circles, and ahhhhhhhhhh... I shudder...  But now, years later, I've not only become a professional Jazz musician, but I teach too, and you know something, even though my particular method of teaching involves very little reading (mainly because I teach Jazz improv) this is the one book that not only do I reccomend to my students, but also that I've started picking up again, because actually the exercises are relevent to players of all levels.  The reason is because regardless of what type of music you play, the finger pattern exercises in this book are universal and relevent.  On the surface they look very simple, almost childish compared to some of the more nightmarish books (Czerny, anyone?) but the truth is, once you've mastered them, melodies will fall under your fingers and hopefully you'll feel as home on your piano as you do on your computer keyboard ...	2001-06-14
US	51889411	R15G16FMPQ2MH	0825622239	979244662	Jazz Hanon (Hanon Series)	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Bartok for Beboppers ?	I have mixed opinions on this one... To be honest, you can probably get an even better bang for the buck by purchasing the full version of Hanon's Virtuoso Pianist and practising the exersizes with swing feel (play chords in your LH and the patterns in your RH), then you could then go out and get some of David Baker's Bebop Pattern books and dig down even deeper... (If you don't know what swing time and swing feel is, you should probably sit in a few lessons with a Jazz improv instructor anyway... sometimes it doesn't come through in writing anyway.)  - - Of course what's most important is being able to take the pattern concepts, and applying them to the scales and modes that fit in with different chords, so for that purpose, you should definitely get your hand on a good Jazz Improv book... and also be sure to learn them in all keys... whatever the case, the most important thing to realize is that this is a TECHNIQUE book... not an improv book... hence,you should use this book for the purpose of building your dexterity not for solo ideas...  If you're looking for a good HOW TO PLAY JAZZ book, check out my AMAZON list on Essential Jazz Learning Resources.	2001-06-11
US	51889411	R147473KEN0F03	1880549123	121669604	Precious Lord! (How to play Black gospel)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Hightly Substantive ! ! !	A long overdue book that delves down into the the theory behind playing black gospel.  Its is well written, and substantive.  Robert L. Jefferson has elevated the instruction of gospel to a totally new level.  - - With players of the authentic music willing or able to teach being so rare, it is a true treat to study with an individual who is so clearly able to articulate it.  After a brief history of the music, Mr. Jefferson tackles a wide array of topics from basic chord theory and gospel cadence, to everything from passing chords, secondary dominants, contemporary, licks and fills, soul gospel and more.  Examples are enlightening and abundant in this 106 page book.  - - Though  reading of musical notation is required, Jefferson's ability to explain the theory behind the music is priceless... the book is hands on and functional.  Purchasing this book will definitely take you to a whole new level regardless of where you are now !  When it comes to music instruction books, this book ranks TOP on my list.	2001-06-11
US	51889411	R1X7DZHNQBNIIU	B000007S0J	549873980	Vol. 8, Sonny Rollins (Book & CD Set)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	You Better Git To This ! ! !	Different towns have different Jam Session standards that you're sort of expected to be able to handle (or get off the bandstand.) In my home town OLEO, (an uptempo Rhythm Changes usually in Bb) is definitely one of them.  What I like about this volume is that it actually has the hipper chromatic style Rhythm Changes, not just the I VI II V turn back ad infinim.<br />The inclusion of two different blues and funky Rollins style tunes like Airgin and St. Thomas obviously make this a good work out... and I do say funky... because its a pretty cookin' rhythm section that should offer either delightful accompaniment or a nice challenge featuring Dan Haerle on Piano, Rufus Reid on Bass and Johnathan Higgins on drums.  - - One tip for players of all instruments I'd offer incidentally is to listen to Rufus Reid's basslines... he's playing some hip changes - - if you have any means, regardless of your instrument try to slow it down and transcribe it then key in on Haerle's comping... they're playing hipper changes that you're not necessarily going to get from the book - - if you can understand them, you'll really find yourself taking off.<br />Final word :  If you are tempted to use these CDs on a bandstand instead of hiring real musicians, you're probably the type of person who likes to break wind in the bathtub and pop the bubbles for fun.  Knock it off... 'K ? .... and tell everyone else to as well...	2001-02-06
US	51889411	R3IULSV2TUIJQT	0194700593	644642745	The Oxford Picture Dictionary: Monolingual Edition (The Oxford Picture Dictionary Program)	Books	5	115	118	N	N	Latest version is incredible - - Its not the old OPD ! ! !	There was a time when I wasn't very impressed by the Oxford Picture Dictionary, especially compared to the WORD BY WORD Picture Dictionary.  As an English teacher I used to get free copies of it, but I'd actually go out and buy other versions because it wasn't as topical as Word By Word.  Suddenly however, they seem to have caught on.  My students LOVE this latest version (which has a black not blue cover and is much thicker.) In smaller less structured classes, I'll actually let them pick out chapters then base the grammar lesson I was going to teach on that theme and topic, that way insuring personal relevence.  It also helps keep the classes in English... dictionaries can be valuable tools, but often they keep students from communicating with each other - - they sort of burry their heads in the dictionaries and the safety of their own langauge, but with the latest version of the Oxford Picture Dictionary, I'll find students of different nationalities hudling over the book, trying to get the point across.  The pictures serve as a universal langauge that induces communication across cultures.<br />For this reason, I have to rank the latest version of the OPD as one of the greatest learning sources as an English teacher I've ever encountered.  Its popular among the students, activity friendly and you can transfer the lesson objectives over from almost any book to meet the needs of your students.<br />As a word of advice, be sure to get the MONOLINGUAL version regardless of where you're teaching.  This is a PICTURE dictionary.  Have your student's native language in the book sabotages the purpose of getting them to think in English !	2001-01-24
US	51889411	R1A5HBZ1CS7JR	0823077578	241248039	This Business of Music: The Definitive Guide to the Music Industry, Eighth Edition (Book & CD-ROM)	Books	5	51	55	N	Y	Essential Legal Reference... ! ! !	Performing, Promoting and Producing music is one thing.  Music Law is another  - - and when you're not a million dollar record company but just another guy trying to make and promote music, and you can't afford $200.00 an hour for *multiple* legal consultations, you might be at a disadvantage, especially when you're dealing with slicksters who do.<br />This book for long has been one of the few serious resources available to individuals who need to really understand &quot;the industry&quot; and the laws relating to you and it (including how to protect your own work and performances as well as making agreements with other people, and not infringing copyright law.)  About 5 years ago it underwent a major make over to deal with the digital revolution and other chages in the industry (including the Digital Millenium Copyright Act of 1998) and now even has a CD rom with plenty of printable legal documents, including 23 sample agreements.<br />The book might not have any cute picures and rock and roll stories, but if you need a serious understanding about everything fo contracts, agreements, performing rights, protecting ideas and titles, agents and managers, various legislation and so on and so forth, this is an essential work of reference.  It is defitely *not* just another &quot;Cheesy Wannabe Pop Star Magazine Presents : How To Get Your Demo Heatf and Become a Big and Groovy Recording Artist&quot; type book, nor is it written in such legalese, that you need a lawyer to disencipher it... it is basically the definitive reference manual for any individual involved or getting involved in the music industry to have on hand.	2000-12-29
US	51889411	R3N86BHI8UZSA5	0881889792	516266818	The Ultimate Jazz Fake Book (Fake Books) C Edition	Books	5	118	122	N	Y	Great Tunes, but take the changes with a grain of salt !	This book has a fantastic selection of tunes.  Its almost like THE REAL BOOKS 1 &amp; 2 COMBINED plus THE NEW REAL BOOK only with those annoying commercial fake book chord changes.  That is my major criticism... Basically what they do is give you chord changes that I guess are meant to help out players who aren't at the level where they can really reharmonize things on the spot, and need something quasi hip to play.  The problem with that though is that people shouldn't really buy a fake book like this to LEARN how to play Jazz.  You get a book like THE JAZZ THEORY BOOK (by Mark Levine) etc. etc. then apply that knowlege to the fake books.  I think using a book like this as &quot;instructional sheet music&quot; (as a reviewer will occasionally imply to have done) actually hurt the aspiring Jazz student  because  they deprive him or her of the skill gained through instruction or experience of identifying basic Jazz forms (key to building repoitoire and improvisational ability).  You just learn how to play specific songs and arrangements note for note - - and never learn how to think of the changes functionally in order to be able to improvise or accompany at a jam session or playing in an ensemble.  Its really important for you to be able to look at a tune, tell what type of beast it is, then tackle it from that perspective... Hence, this is my main (and strong) criticism about the book : A good and functional fake book gives the musician the melody, the root of the chord, and its fundamental quality (major, minor, dom, etc.) - - after that, they *should* decide for themselves what type of extensions to or not to use - - - It is the musicians job to decide whether that C7 chord should really be played diminished, dominant, flat nine, raised nine, thirteenth  -  - But a book such as this will often jump the gun, for example not only won't it say C7 or C7b9, it'll say E diminished or something like that...  Technically speaking it might be correct, but it distracts the improviser from the main point.  (*and let me also say that in many ways this book is better than some of the others and even some of the non-commercially available professional fake books have these &quot;errors&quot; so these complaints aren't leveled exclusively against this book !)<br />This problem aside, if you DO know your basic Jazz forms, or are in the process of mastering them, I HIGHLY reccomend this book (and even if you're not, it IS an incredible book to futz around with).  ...It offers an enormous wealth of tunes and definitely beats carrying along a brief case of fake books.  Just carry a pencil with you.  Just to give you a feel.. here are a few of the tunes in it...<br />Airegin All Blues Along Came Betty Angel Eyes Bag's Groove Be-Bop Bernie's Tune Billie's Bounce  Bluesette Body And Soul Boplicity (Be Bop Lives) Caldonia (What Makes Your Big Head So Hard?) The Champ Cherokee  Donna Lee Doodlin Jeannine Killer Joe Mercy, Mercy, Mercy Milestones<br />Minor Swing Nica's Dream A Night In Tunisia Oleo Parker's Mood Saturday Night Fish Fry Scrapple From The Apple Senor Blues Sister Sadie Song For My Father Sugar Twisted Walkin' Work Song<br />In summary, this is an excellent resource, just have a pencil in hand !  (In regard to the print, there are ways to deal with that problem.  I'm glad I can fit it in my case !)ts the improviser from the main point.  (*and let me also say that in many ways this book is better than some of the others and even some of the non-commercially available professional fake books have these &quot;errors&quot; so these complaints aren't leveled exclusively against this book !)<br />This problem aside, if you DO know your basic Jazz forms, or are in the process of mastering them, I HIGHLY reccomend this book (and even if you're not, it IS an incredible book to futz around with).  ...It offers an enormous wealth of tunes and definitely beats carrying along a brief case of fake books.  Just carry a pencil with you.    Just to give you a feel.. here are a few of the tunes in it...<br />Airegin All Blues Along Came Betty Angel Eyes Bag's Groove Be-Bop Bernie's Tune Billie's Bounce  Bluesette Body And Soul Boplicity (Be Bop Lives) Caldonia (What Makes Your Big Head So Hard?) The Champ Cherokee  Donna Lee Doodlin Jeannine Killer Joe Mercy, Mercy, Mercy Milestones<br />Minor Swing Nica's Dream A Night In Tunisia Oleo Parker's Mood Saturday Night Fish Fry Scrapple From The Apple Senor Blues Sister Sadie Song For My Father Sugar Twisted Walkin' Work Song<br />In summary, this is an excellent resource, just have a pencil in hand !  (In regard to the print, there are ways to deal with that problem.   I'm glad I can fit it in my case !)	2000-12-24
US	51889411	R1WKTSC1SDI1ST	082561449X	801496964	Thesaurus Of Scales And Melodic Patterns (Text)	Books	5	144	154	N	N	Great Resource (if and when used in the proper context !)	Written primarily for composers of modern (classical) music, the Thesaurus was a relatively obscure text offering a glimpse of a controversial and rarely explored world beyond conventional scales and Western Tonality - -  The book began to gain popularity in the Jazz world when it was found that John Coltrane had been dabling in it and suddenly it rose from obscurity.  - - If you're thinking of purchasing this book as sort of a &quot;woodshedder's bible&quot; be forewarned... unless you understand the rocket science of chord/scale relationships (etc. etc.) and the concepts behind the scales, you'll probably be wasting your time.  At minimum to appreciate this book you need to know more about the scales you already use than that the reason you can play them over a certain change is that Aebersold Volume 6 told you you could.  On the other hand, if you can play tunes, changes, and understand how and why tones are chosen and selected, this book may offer some powerful stuff.  The important thing to realize is that the material in the book is HIGHLY applicable, however, the book will not tell you how to apply it.  Your insight and understanding will be required.  So in conclusion, do not be fooled... if you're looking for a &quot;cool&quot; pattern book, or to learn how to improvise in general, or even want to learn how to sound like Trane, this is definitely NOT the book for you.  If on the other hand you're already an advanced improviser, can listen to a solo and understand the &quot;concepts&quot; and the process of how tones are selected... and want to experiment with and development further ideas get this book.  Check out Amadea's Jazz Improv : How To Play It &amp; How to Teach it for an interesting approach on developing lines... or an interesting book called &quot;Tons of Runs&quot; if you're looking for something more along the lines of interesting patterns to play.	2000-12-11
US	51889411	R1M04M8ZUYI0EI	013811076X	152577615	Side by Side Book 1 (2nd Edition)	Books	5	83	85	N	N	The Best, Yet Most Abused ESL/EFL Text on the Market Ever !	I've taught with this text in three different countries... and have sworn by it and it.<br /><br />What I love about it is that it really gets down to the basics of speaking English and does so in a systematic manner.  A lot of teachers abuse it by having their students read and write through it, then complain what a dry book it is.  The same teachers also use it in such a haphazard manner that after a year the students are in book one, when really Volumes 1 2 and 3 (especially) are a jump start English course.  This however is often the result of either inadequate training or not reading the teacher's manual, especially in Japan where teachers and students come and go by the bushel.<br /><br />Overall, while the book might lack the \\"cuteness\\" of other programs, trust me... the pedagogy is well thought out - - especially if you know how to expand from the book and have other activities to bring the language to life.  The book is for adults for example, but using the Molinsky and Bliss WORD BY WORD flash cards I've actually created games for children based on the activities in the book.  And if the students are too used to reading through the book (from former teachers) I actually copy the pictures from the book with the words whited out, cut them into flash cards, team them up for pair work, and then let them engage in the conversation activities from the book.<br /><br />This is an incredible book, and a new version has just come out...  USE IT DON'T ABUSE IT and your students will make incredible progress.  Check out the WORD BY WORD PICTURE DICTIONARY as a great supplement to expand the activities with additional (yet practical) vocabulary as well as EXPRESSWAYS (also by the same authors).	2000-11-06
US	51889411	R1AKSV2WL6X3IA	0132782359	625311497	Word by Word Picture Dictionary	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Ultimate ESL Resource - - I Love It, My Students Love It ! !	By the authors of SIDE BY SIDE this is a much more colorful and better organized picture dictionary than the formerly more popular OXFORD PICTURE DICTIONARY.  Whenever I bring it to class, if the students don't have it, the first thing atleast 70% will ask me is &quot;Where can I get it ?&quot; - - used with the accompanying flash cards (not included) you can teach entire (and substantive) lessons with just those two things alone... and even without it, you can use it to expand amply from whatever text book you're using.  The chapters on the household, occupations, places around town, work activities are especially useful.  In my begining classes we learn how to ask each other questions about these subjects, and begin all our classes discussing what we did over the weekend, what we did at work etc. etc.  We talk about our house, our family... and all these topics are with Level 1 students, eye to eye (pair work, group work, class discussion)and facilitated by lessons from this book.  - - Pictures get students talking and open them up and this is the ultimate resource ! ! !<br />As a tip, the students love looking at the pictures and discussing them, so to keep activities interactive, have students share books... or make worksheets where the students have to exchange information ! ! !	2000-11-06
US	51889411	R1P8SQ7QQOHYUI	0195537483	669729205	Getting Rid of Gout: A Guide to Management and Prevention	Books	5	94	97	N	Y	Thinking of buying a copy for my doctor ! ! !	This well written 148 pg. book has all the information  that I wish my doctor had shared with me when he diagnosed me.  There are a lot of books offering  &quot;homeopathic&quot; based remedies.  I got this because I wanted to get a clear medical perspective on the disease.<br />A few of the reviewers have complained that the book does not have enough dietary information, however, as the book points out, there really isn't a generic formula of what foods you can and can't eat.  Matching notes with several other gout sufferers, I concur. As the book words it each individual will have his or her own &quot;peculiarities&quot; - - and there are factors besides diet as well.  Of course, everyone I talk to has a different  &quot;time tested&quot; answer, and they're willing to state it  authoritively.  All I can tell you is that I've suffered miserably enough from this disease not to want to play  any more games.  I got this book to hear about my medical options... how the disease is caused, treated, managed and cured - it does this in plain English then you can  decide on your own about your course of treatment.  I really wish I had this book several years ago. Initially my doctor told me, &quot;Oh, just don't eat...&quot; and  gave me a list.  I followed it and a few months later  it came back with a vegence.  I suffered miserably.  The third time I saw an internist.  He gave me an anti-inflammatory drug which within 20 minutes relieved  the pain and enabled me not only to put on my socks and shoes, but walk. Was all the suffering from the time  before necessary?  Then came the issue  of going onpermanant medication, its long term side  effects (I'm barely 30 !) and adjusting it (I had another  attack after I started on it.)  The point is, I now have a better understanding of the disease and can make better informed decisions.<br />On a lighter note, the book also offers a fascinating  history of the disease which actually goes back to the times of Hippocrates and while the book is light on &quot;kiche&quot; there are a few hillarious cartoons with the gout sufferer and the propt up foot that you will associate with if you are a sufferer or live with someone who is.<br />(P.S. Best of luck in your treatment, I hope this book  will help you out ! ! ! )es and while the book is light on &quot;kiche&quot; there are a few hillarious cartoons with the gout sufferer and the propt up foot that you will associate with if you are a sufferer or live with someone who is.<br />(P.S. Best of luck in your treatment, I hope this book  will help you out ! ! ! )	2000-10-31
US	51889411	RZTVCFXVNZYWV	0961303506	604600370	Harmonic Foundation for Jazz and Popular Music	Books	5	67	72	N	N	Essential Learning Resource for the Aspiring Jazz Pianist !	Philadelphia had (until his recent passing) been  home to the quintesential Jazz Sensei/Guru, Dennis Sandole.  Yet, in the shadows of Dennis's  studio down town, this here city has another great sensei to offer the world...<br />It is impossible to play Jazz without learning  how to use your tones... You need them to make  chords, you need them to form solos, and until you have mastered them, entire world's of ideas will be beyond your reach.  The irony of it all  is, over any chord, there really aren't but 7  tones you can use.<br />This incredible book will take you step by step  through that process of finding and putting them  together.  I have used it with myself,  I use it with my students.  Work through this  book and never again will any voicing or chord seem too challenging to make, play or even solo over on the spot.  It will improve your ability to use fake books, to make chord notations, and ultimately your hearing.<br />Jimmy Amadia may have re-invented the wheel, but he's done so brilliantly... and in a manner that leads to  a brilliant economy of style, both in terms of learning and performance.	2000-10-31
US	51889411	R19TIWW2EHKV52	4906574971	309353316	Shogi for Beginners	Books	5	18	20	N	N	An Incredible Starting Point...	Just the other day I came across the copy of this book I bought 4 years ago.  It brought  back so many memories.  A Japanese friend bought be a shogi set as a gift, and out of  codependent tendencies I felt obligated to learn how to play the game.  Its  a fascinating game because unlike chess, when you capture the pieces you can reverse it and use it against your opponent, so you  not only have to think about &quot;position&quot; (also envisioning drops) but exchanges in the *literal*<br />sense of the world.<br />Anyway, at the time it was the only book I could find...  I read it, I played it, I beat  him... he stopped returning my phone calls.  Within a year I wound up going to Japan, playing at the  local Shogi dojos... I even became friends with some famous shogi players... reached sho-dan level. The definitely set me on a journey... Thinking about it, I'm almost depressed to think I haven't played in about a year or so.  Still, looking back I  can say that this book set me on the right path.  Your next step is to learn how to read Japanese  numbers, then go to your local Japanese book store. You can buy books that show shogi matches move by  move or have problems.  Though you won't be able to read the explanations, you definitely won't be  in the dark.<br />Anyway, when you finish this book, if you're thinking of becoming an English teacher in Japan, the good  news is you *will* be able to wip most your students. Its not as popular as young people as it used to be, and if you play with an adult, they'll think you're a  &quot;henna gaijin&quot; and buy you a drink !<br />P.S. No, this isn't the same thing as GO ! ! !	2000-10-31
US	51889411	R1W4J05F0RC6C3	0961470151	229581031	The Jazz Piano Book	Books	5	309	317	N	N	Valuable Learning Resource for the Aspiring Jazz Pianist ! !	Before Mark Levine's Jazz Piano book came out, choosing a book on how to play piano was a lot like selecting a presidential candidate - - you may not have been crazy about the choices but... (blah blah blah) What makes this book different is that it walks a fine and brilliant line between theory, application and stylistics and it is never dry, and further it is contemporary. By chapter 10 and beyond he's getting into fourth chords, upper structures and &quot;so what&quot; chords. Most books sort of finish up just when Bud Powell is hitting the scene. This book however will take you up to McCoy Tyner and Kenny Barron. - - Unlike other books, his book also sites practical song examples and specific listening examples.<br />If you're entirely on your own, I think this book, along with a few Aebersold play-a-longs and Amadea's Harmonic Foundations for Jazz and Pop Music would really take you a long way. Your ultimate goal should be able to sit in at Jam sessions and with real players... that's where the real learning begins. Do what you have to do to get to the point that you can hang with a blues or Real Book standards.<br />(Regarding suitability for beginers vs. advanced players : This book is pretty good for players of all levels, though if you're starting from scratch another book to consider is Brain Waite's &quot;Modern Jazz Piano : A Study in Harmony&quot; or Amadea's book, then this.)	2000-10-31
US	51889411	R3NFOP4R8PWKQI	9993633593	330373545	How To Play Jazz and Improvise / Book and CD	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Valuable Tool to Master an Essential Jazz Form	... This is a learning tool, hence the tracks are at moderate tempos and relatively in their variations.  The aim of this resource is to learn how to play through/accompany on your blues changes.<br />If you want to sit in on a jam session, mastery of the blues (with appropriate passing chords) is essential.  Though most &quot;straight ahead&quot; Jazz tunes are called in F, Bb, G and on occasion a few other keys, while it might be forgiveable not to know Cherokee in E, not being able to hack a blues in a called key (depending on the key) might definitely get you some looks.  Further, by mastering your blues in all keys, you'll indirectly be mastering the changes you need to play virtually any other Jazz tune, since the Blues has II V progressions, turnbacks and V chords moving by fourths like any other tune... So once you've truly mastered your blues, you should be able to open up a fake book and handle the changes in any other tune - - and for the time being, if you can't play your blues in All keys discreetly having a copy of this on hand might save face.<br />Additional material included are variations of the blues from passing chord variations to Bird Changes, blues scales in all keys, tips on using the tones, plus accompanying scales written out (actually its better to solo off of chord tones than scales if you want to play authentic sounding bebop, but no problem, just write out the scales every other note up to the 13th.)  The book also has a nice discography.<br />This is an excellent learning tool if you use it right... be sure to realize however, its just a play-a-long.  The next step is to go out into the field and try this stuff with real people !	2000-10-29
US	51889411	R2R06P2S4D6VIR	0894805274	757057460	Archie & Edith, Mike & Gloria: The Tumultuous History of All in the Family	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A Portrait of the Family that Changed TV and Beyond !	First there was Duffy's Tavern, then the Honeymooners, (Til Death Do Us Part in the UK) and before Moe's Tavern was ALL IN THE FAMILY.  The enormous impact this show had on American society with its controversial subject content and very un-Father Knows Best language and worldview is unquestionable. It was the show that could anger and shock you and drive you to tears one moment, and in the blink of an eye, have you rolling on the floor in laughter. It was one of the first shows to deal with Women's Issues, Bigotry - - no topic was too controversial.  This book will help you appreciate it... and yes, it has an episode guide, the trivia and all that stuff too.  It was the show that made us look at ourselves and sparked passionate arguements.  This is a fascinating, yet incredibly readable history of the show, balancing between sociological analysis and the stuff that any true fan or addict would want to know. Thumbs up for TV fans, and people like me who grew up on it and were deeply effected by the episodes.	2000-10-24
US	51889411	R1XA3NWK02BN5V	0198161808	661576435	The Language of Music (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	An Engaging Read ! ! !	What gives music its meaning... is music akin to pure mathematics, to language... how do composers use forms and sounds to convey emotions, pictures and ideas and what are the basic idioms that are used to express those ideas in western music ?<br />When the book was first suggested to me, based on theme, I was expecting something &quot;wishy washy&quot; and not too keen on it, but for some reason I decided to give it a go, since it touches on one of my areas of reasearch.  In the end it turned out to be one of those books that really got the old nogen brewing - - a book that sometimes you have to put down because it really gets your brain going or that if you read it before bedtime, you might wake up at 3:00 AM thinking about stuff he said !  - - Musicians as well as music lovers will appreciate it.  You'll need to brush up on (or learn) basic music theory, however, it will be worth the effort... it might even change the way you hear your favorite symphony or music in general forever !	2000-10-18
US	51889411	RV3J3HSVUTPJ2	0898799805	530330944	2001 Songwriter's Market (Songwriter's Market, 2001)	Books	4	48	51	N	N	Nice Resource but...	I have mixed opinions about this book.  There's a lot of useful information, and the lay out is nice, but I think it would be a mistake to use it as a first and last resource as many people do and rate your sucess and failure upon those answered and unanswered query letters.  A good example is the fact that most major labels only except submissions from management companies, and most management companies often want to see that you local recognition before they take you on.  Some of the better ones may only represent one or two artists because a lot of time and money is required, and those that don't often do little more than keep you in their rolodex and throw a gig here and there and take commish when their main act is unavailable - - And Indie labels too want local name recognition, especially if it requires an investment as any production does.  Art aside, music IS a business... if a louzy sounding group has a following of a few hundred and plays out regularly, the odds of selling enough CDs to recap the production cost are obvoiusly much higher than say a talented songwriter/performer with a great home studio, but no band or name recognition.  The answer then is to make sure you're playing out.  You also need to study the grapevine and the &quot;scene&quot; of the music you play.  Many of the management companies and indie labels that your favorite bands were on before they made it big may not necessarily be in The Song Writer's Market, yet those were the people who positioned those artists for recognition to get &quot;discovered&quot; - - doing a bit of research and using the internet might yield surprizing results.  Many record companies even have up to date A &amp; R pages explaining criterea for submission with surprizing detail and others will answer e-mail.  Also note :  the info in this book is based on what was submitted to them.  They don't actually look up each of the 1,000s of listings.  By the time each edition hits print, many are already out of business, some are bombarded with more tapes than they can handle, and others weren't legit to start (&quot;Sorry, we're not excepting material except for our songwriting context.  Please send a check for...&quot;)<br />So my suggestion would be, get this book as a supplemnetary resource, but scope out resources in your own scene first, including local ones as well as examining the trail groups or artists with similar vibes took.  Be aware of labels and management for new and older resources and the links on their web sites (which also include links to groups with similar vibes lower down the label on more accessible but good labels.)  Do what you have to move up the ladder... and that involves being seen and going from one class of venue and management to the next... then use this book for &quot;extra credit&quot; and who knows... you might get lucky ! ! !of business, some are bombarded with more tapes than they can handle, and others weren't legit to start (&quot;Sorry, we're not excepting material except for our songwriting context.  Please send a check for...&quot;)<br />So my suggestion would be, get this book as a supplemnetary resource, but scope out resources in your own scene first, including local ones as well as examining the trail groups or artists with similar vibes took.  Be aware of labels and management for new and older resources and the links on their web sites (which also include links to groups with similar vibes lower down the label on more accessible but good labels.)    Do what you have to move up the ladder... and that involves being seen and going from one class of venue and management to the next... then use this book for &quot;extra credit&quot; and who knows... you might get lucky ! ! !	2000-10-16
US	51889411	R37X8IS6UOF4V2	0793529395	470875058	The Ultimate Fake Book (for C Instruments)	Books	5	272	278	N	N	A Handy Tool ! ! !	Ha !  The reviewer below me made a good point (if you've never seen this book before), and I for one have no intention of typing out the 1200 tunes !<br />I'll tell you why I like it...  I have loads of Jazz fake books.  This for sure *isn't* &quot;The Real Book&quot;, but its a nice collection of more poppish tunes that I find useful to have along on a gig because sometimes people do request those '50s, '60s or '70s pop tunes or even older &quot;less hip&quot; standards and tunes.  Its one thing to play for &quot;musicians&quot; but what about when you play in restaurants, at weddings, or for real people?  It also has those tunes that vocalists tend to call but that instrumental Jazz ensembles don't play as often (you know, showtunes, Barbara Streisand Stuff, etc. etc.) and even lot's of stuff good for wedding gigs (I WILL SURVIVE, LOVE THEMES from films like TOP GUN and FOOTLOOSE, MANDY, MIDNIGHT TRAIN TO GEORGIA, THE &quot;IN&quot; CROWD, GREAT BALLS OF FIRE, GETTING TO KNOW YOU, QUE SERA SERA, even JIVE TALKIN', I SHOT THE SHERIFF. and '70s stuff like PIANO MAN, JIVE TALKIN', BRANDY (You're a Find Girl), CELEBRATE and JULIE, DO YOU LOVE ME ! ! !)<br />But its not just wedding band music... I've found some morsels in this one that aren't in most of my Jazz books... MORE TODAY THAN YESTERDAY, I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TIME IT WAS, CRY ME A RIVER, THE JERSEY BOUNCE, SAMABA DE ORPHEAU,  WALK ON THE WILD SIDE, etc.<br />I can't list all 1200 tunes for you as I mentioned, but here are some of the categories...  Hits of the 1910s, 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s and a few from the 90s, Big Band Favorites, Broadway Show Hits, Movie Hits, TV Hits (including the THEME from CHEERS, THE ODD COUPLE and SECRET AGENT MAN), Country Classics (HEY GOOD LOOKIN, I WALK THE LINE, RING OF FIRE), folk songs (including PUFF THE MAGIC DRAGON), Inspirational and Holiday Songs (and stuff like THE WEDDING BAND MARCH, HAPPY BIRTHDAY), Blues Dixieland and Jazz tunes, Polka, Singalongs (Special Requests and Novelty Tunes)&quot;, Songs in 3/4 Time, Latin Tunes (including A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A FOOL), and a few Hawaiin tunes.<br />Overall, its some great ammunition to have on the gig... the print might be small, the changes &quot;less hip&quot; and the book, very bulky, but I really feel comfortable having this book around.  The musicians are going to want to play Coltrane and Miles Davis, but the reality is, the people are going to request the type of tunes in the book, and those sit in vocalists are going to call them !  Be prepared !Special Requests and Novelty Tunes)&quot;, Songs in 3/4 Time, Latin Tunes (including A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A FOOL), and a few Hawaiin tunes.<br />Overall, its some great ammunition to have on the gig... the print might be small, the changes &quot;less hip&quot; and the book, very bulky, but I really feel comfortable having this book around.  The musicians are going to want to play Coltrane and Miles Davis, but the reality is, the people are going to request the type of tunes in the book, and those sit in vocalists are going to call them !   Be prepared !	2000-10-11
US	51889411	RUXSF9NAX5P5X	0760400148	889597460	The Jazz Language: A Theory Text for Jazz Composition and Improvisation	Books	5	19	20	N	N	An Excellent Book !	First of all, who's Dun Hurley ?  Its Dan Haerle, an incredible Jazz educator.<br />Up until recently, this was the GREATEST and practically only Jazz Theory book of its type.  Concise... written in plain and simple English.  Overwhelmed by that college music theory course..? this book was the tool to get you through.  Its still just as great, though Mark Levine now has his flashy (and much bulkier) Jazz Theory Book.<br />What still makes this book stand out is the fact that it covers all the basics, upfront and in plain English.  It doesn't delve into stylistics and performance like Mark Levine's book, but will give you a bird's a view of &quot;Jazz Improv and Music Theory 101&quot;.  If you need a crash course, this book still reigns supreme, and even alongside The Jazz Theory Book, I'd have to say, its a great starting point, and a must have for teachers.<br />Other recomended readings would be Jimmy Amadea's Harmonic Foundations for Jazz and Pop Music and definitely those Aebersold tapes and play-a-longs !	2000-10-06
US	51889411	R2X446WON5SA99	0961470178	750006949	002: The New Real Book, Volume 2 (Key of C)	Books	4	66	69	N	N	The Over The Counter Gigger's Bible...	Prior to the publication of this book, serious Jazz professionals and students had to hunt down copies of the elusive &quot;REAL BOOK&quot;, that improvisor's bible found only UNDER the counter at CERTAIN music shops (which you'd ultimately get pointed out to through your local musician's grapevine. )  At times hard to read, prone to fall apart and vanish off the bandstand and not always 100% accurate, it was definitely the book you needed to make it through gigs if you weren't a walking encyclopaedia of tunes.<br />Finally, along has come this book.  It's legal, the print is easier to read, the pages are easier to turn, and it has some cute pictures and even hipper tunes... but is it better ?<br />Yes and no.  The one problem I have with it is that *for me* on the bandstand, simple is best.  If someone calls a tune you've never heard before, you want to be able to turn to it, glance at the changes and hang with them.  This book, in contrast, sometimes throws in extra bells and whistles delightful perhaps to a student and certain musicians, but a nuisance if you just want to see a skeleton of the basics so you can hang with the changes.  My philosophy is :  just give me the basic chords and melody... and its my job as an improvisor to throw in the rest.  On the other hand, most fake books (arrangement wise) really leave you on your own.<br />The plus side of this book... it definitely has hipper changes and a hipper selection of tunes than the alternative (if that's what you're looking for and that's your taste), has introductions, endings, material more relevent for ensemble practise that you wouldn't find in the alternative and, for example if there's a particular vamp or line that defines the tune, the piano, bass and horn part might actually be written out even the drum part at times.<br />So is this book for you ?  If you're looking for a fake book that's willing to &quot;help you out&quot; and you don't find that a distractor, definitely, yes !  If you're a student and don't know a lot of tunes, definitely, yes !  It has a great selection of tunes that will help you expand your song repoitoire, and also that's nice and cleanly written.  A book such as this is a great investment... its not something you get and hide away under the bench... its something that you'll probably pack alongside your instrument everytime you go to a gig because people WILL be calling tunes from it.'re a student and don't know a lot of tunes, definitely, yes !   It has a great selection of tunes that will help you expand your song repoitoire, and also that's nice and cleanly written.  A book such as this is a great investment... its not something you get and hide away under the bench... its something that you'll probably pack alongside your instrument everytime you go to a gig because people WILL be calling tunes from it.	2000-10-06
US	51889411	R2ZVMD9GD64Q03	0764505866	387418574	ICQ For Dummies	Books	3	2	2	N	N	&quot;uh oh !&quot;	It is true that with each new version (as of this writing, they're now up to ICQ 2000b) ICQ adds more and more bells and whistles, and it gets a little more complicated, and overall I love the DUMMIES series, but the truth is, everything you need to know about ICQ can be found at their web site, or perhaps your ICQ buddy can walk you through it. On the other hand, at times the web site seems more difficult to navigate than the program (its great... but BIG)  Still, I couldn't totally put this book down... you can't read ICQ on the toilet or curl up in the bed with it,or read &quot;ICQ&quot; during your lunch break or on the bus to work or school, so maybe that would warrent the purchase of a book about it.  I guess it would make a nice gift to for a new ICQ buddy, however, if you think you need a book to learn how to use ICQ, you're getting it for the wrong reason - - and also, by the time it arives in a few days, ICQ will probably have added 30,000 more features.	2000-10-06
US	51889411	R35JUDAJ8O7Z52	094374895X	495129667	Tons of Runs for the Contemporary Pianist	Books	5	72	73	N	Y	A Must Have ! ! !	I'm not a big fan of lick and pattern books, but this one has my seal of approval... and more than that, I HIGHLY reccomend it.  There are lot's of ideas in here, some powerful stuff.  Really hands on Jazz language material, some that if you're a more experienced improviser you might be using instinctively already, and some you wonder why you haven't touched on all along.  The idea is to take them and build upon them...  Within hours of getting the book, I immediately tuned out the outside world and was having fun experimenting with it...  Some other things I like about it :  The licks are in more than one key, suggested fingerings for more difficult ones, they're over a nice variety of patterns, typography is nice, and they're stuff that real people actually play, not just text book prototypes.<br />I venture to say, that of the books I'm familiar with, this is the best one out !!!  Great stuff for professionals as well as folks just getting into improv... and not just for pianists !	2000-09-30
US	51889411	R1BCB1K69JX001	0811200329	482242320	The Setting Sun (New Directions Book)	Books	5	37	43	N	N	Disturbing, yet Brilliant	Osamu Dazai's greatest sin was honesty, and an equal love of decadence  mixed with self loathing.  He was a genius, a rebel, a drug addict, a  rebel of aristocratic means who disgraced his family often through seedy,  sometimes politically verbotten company... a man deeply disturbed (his  hobby seemed to be to be attempting suicide, often with his lovers, and  until the last effort, in which he drowned himself, were only half  succesful... literally.)  His two great novels reflected his troubles and  innermost thoughts... psychologically, they are dark, disturbing, yet  enlightening.  Culturally, the self indulgence of such dialogue was  equally shocking, though some have suggested that Dazai's outer word  reflects the inner most soul of the Japanese.  - - I spent four years in  Japan, often traveling through the urban landscape of Tokyo, often taking  the train to work passing over the banks of the same river where his body  washed up (shortly after the war on his 39th birthday), and though 50 years  after the fact, in time began to gain an even deeper appreciation for his  writings -- however, this is not a mere &quot;Japanese&quot; novel.  Osamu  Dazai, afterall, was the Japanese Albert Camus - - whimsical as well, and  who painted pictures with words as greatly as Akira Kurasawa painted  pictures on the screen.  Though a tragic novel, it is absorbing, and so  well refreshing, rather than leaving one feeling disgusted, one thinks  hard, is angered, then finally may feel awakened.	2000-09-10
US	51889411	R39UI0BJT0NMZZ	0452279070	956761338	Ragtime	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Modern Day Sinclair Lewis/F. Scott Fitzgerald	I cant help but wonder how many people have seen the musical, and as a result were inspired to come over here and check out the book.  - - I read the book first, but if youre just coming back from seeing the road tour of  the scaled down RAGTIME, I can only assure you, that reading the book will  be a lot like watching the musical.  (In fact the play sticks much closer  to the novel than the movie.)  It is passionate, a flurry of sights, sounds  colors and actions and the story unfolds like a great screenplay.  The  director of RAGTIME commenting in CREATING RAGTIME (PBS documentary)noted  how almost every sentence could be a scene in a play.  I agree with him !  Doctorow has told a tale in this short novella that another author would  have needed a book as big as Nicholas Nickelbey to tell, and the charactors  are equally memorable.  His ability to write in such a streamlined book,  yet paint such an epic portrait should earn this book a place aside the  great literary classics of Americana.  I have read both the novel and seen  the play over and over again and it will forever remain an all time  favorite.  Listen to RAGTIME (Broadway cast recording) as you read the  book for an added experience ! ! !	2000-02-17
US	51889411	R2VKCKLE8ZTGLY	0961303514	902590591	Jazz Improv: How to Play It and Teach It: The Iconic Text By the Legendary Author	Books	5	68	73	N	N	A BREAKTHROUGH IN JAZZ ED. BUT...	Amadea's approach to teaching Jazz improv is a major breakthrough.  The book that precedes this and which you should read first (HARMONIC FOUNDATIONS FOR JAZZ AND POP MUSIC) is incredible.  It presupposes you know  NOTHING, yet after you work through this book it'll be like finishing 4  years of college in 6 months and graduating MCL.  - - The one drawback of  JAZZ IMPROV is that it requires a lot of thinking... meaning it ain't no  magic carpet ride... ya gotta be willing to work at it and stick with it.  To put the book in a nutshell, you think of scale tones numerically. You  then learn concepts of how to target the tones.  His concept of improv is  based on TENSION and RELEASE.  - - WARNING:  Don't think just because  you've read the chapter and understand it, you're ready to go on with the  next.  You have to internalize it.  A neat book I used in conjunction  with this is BERT LIGON's CONNECTING CHORDS WITH LINEAR HARMONY.	2000-01-04
US	51889411	R27NQFHTILMYVN	0306775522	168289595	The Schillinger System of Musical Composition Volume 2	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Mind Blowing  ! ! !	I got this book about a month ago, and its become an obsession.  Literally I cant put it down.  It is mind blowing to say the least.  - - Schillinger presents an entire new way of looking at music.  It is very  relevent for the modern Jazz improviser (Personally, I play Jazz organ and  have a penchant for Hard Bop and Soul Jazz.)  The jargon does get a bit  intimidating at times, but once you sit down with your instrument and  fiddle around, whole new worlds open up even if you dont understand it  fully.  You begin to see the beauty and logic behind some of your  favorite compositions.  - - I had a ball the first night I read it  experimenting with different melodies by doing permutations... Its even  helped me figure out all that wierd lingo in the Yusef Lateef book on  Scales and Patterns.  - - The one thing Ill say though... this book aint  for dabblers.  You gotta have a lot of time and motivation on your hands.  I spend about 12 hours a day at my instrument... and even that aint  enough, so for me, the book is great.  But if youre not lucky or  disciplined enough to have this kind of time however, still are curious  about more mathematical ways of envisioning creative Jazz lines, I suggest  JIMMY AMADIEs book JAZZ IMPROV: HOW TO PLAY IT; HOW TO TEACH IT.	1999-12-09
