US	51880834	R376J6HWHC1NAW	0785262253	168820575	Disabling America: The Unintended Consequences of the Government's Protection of the Handicapped	Books	1	24	42	N	N	This book is so thin on substance it should be a pamphlet	This book is so thin on actual substantive thinking it should be a phamphlet. It's also a shame that this author has given the Republican party a bad name with this shallow tripe.   This book is in part based upon this author taking the most agregious examples of abuse of a law, and ALL laws in this country are abused, and holding them up as total examples of why the ADA is a bad law. It's also full of bad hyperbole and an incredible lack of understanding of the varities of being disabled, despite the author's claims that he himself is disabled. He begins by attacking the width and requirement for businesses to provide disabled parking spots \\"regardless how full the non-disabled spaces become.\\" This statement to non-disabled people reading the book might make sense, until you actually consider the varieties of disabilities and think about the issue further. First, if these spots are not available, what is an elderly person with a heart condition unable to walk very far to do? If these spots are not made as wide as they are and always van accessable, what is a person in a wheelchair that operates a van to get around to do if the one van accessable spot is occupied? This author states that the disabled should not want to do business with a store like this anyway. Why should a business owner have the right to decide he only wants to sell to a certain clientele? Would this author support those business owners who in the early part of the 20th century refused to sell food to African Americans? By his arguments in this book, it appears he would, and that's barbaric. Allowing business owners to choose if they want to accomidate the disabled by having parking spaces available would lead to a ghettoization of the disabled in both where they could shop and where they could live.     This author would also have you believe that these things would occur because of the free market. That belief is unfortunately, laughable. Unfortunately, business owners simply do not think in terms of providing access to the disabled without being instructed to do so. I've seen first hand instances where the disabled are told a business is wheelchair accessable only to find 2-3 stairs at the only entrance to the business when the patron actually shows up, or a door that isn't wide enough to accomodate a wheelchair. These business owners claim their businesses are wheelchair accessable because they, and many other non-disabled people, do not consider these issues very deeply because they aren't faced with being disabled and getting around.  Finally, this author claims there has not been a pattern of discrimination against \\"the disabled\\" in the history of the United States. First of all, he's historically 100 percent wrong. What would he consider eugenics laws in several states in the US that compelled the disabled to undergo sterlization in the 1920s and 30s? Second, he proves he has not thought deeply about this issue with this crass generalization. How does he define \\"the disabled.\\" Unlike African Americans or other ethnic groups, the disabled cannot be defined by country of origin or skin color.   This book is for those that do not want to think deeply about this issue and want an easy read to reinforce their own prejudices. It's unfortunate that this author chose to write such a short sighted and unintelligent book.	2005-04-14
US	51880834	RPL0FSK01VYAL	0345460057	428222705	The Romanov Prophecy	Books	5	41	46	N	N	Excellent fiction based upon historical people	If enough people knew about this book to put it on the best seller list, I have no doubt it would become the phenomenon that is The DeVinci Code. That's how good this book is.  <br />The book is built upon that much debunked but won't die theory that one or more of the Romanov children escaped the basement in Ekateranberg where the rest of the Imperial family was murdered. Because the escape of at least one child, Anastasia, is a well known urban myth, the plot will feel familiar to those who don't know a whole lot about the former Imperial rulers of Russia. <br />The plot is plausable once you get over the fact that the entire urban myth about any Romanov's surviving the murder scene is laughable and has no basis in reality. But getting over that isn't hard if all you want is a good read. It is, after all, a fiction book.  <br />The chase and escape scenes are at least as well done and believable as those in The DeVinci Code with the exception of one towards the end of the book. But because it is fiction, I'm inclined to give the author a pass on that scene. <br />The premise of a Russian return to tsarism in the book, while far fetched, isn't out of the relm of eventual possibility as Russians search to rid themselves of the mafia style oligarchs that have hijacked their attempts at dimocracy and find a style of government that actually can deliver on its promises.  <br />The author has also provided an extremely well designed premise for how Anastasia and Alexi could have survived the murder of their family and stayed in hiding throughout Lenin and Stalin's regimes. He builds well upon the Russian hiding of so much in their archives and Stalin's well known paranoia. If anyone would have gone to great lengths to cover an escape up had he known about it, it would be Stalin.  <br /> <br />I also give the author credit for not claiming, unlike another well known author, save for some quotations from Rasputin and character sketches of some of the dead Romanovs and other people that appear in the book, that ANY of this fiction is real.  <br />If you're looking for a good read based upon real historical people, this book is it.	2005-02-19
US	51880834	REP3YM69R0SJD	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	5	13	15	N	N	One of the best baseball books of all time	Lewis has written what is one of the top 5 baseball books of all time.  <br />The book, unlike what some baseball broadcasters have said, is not exclusively about Billy Beane. It focuses on the Oakland A's and their different way of viewing the potential of baseball players by using statistics such as on base percentage and not simply using scouts to provide judgements based upon watching the player play in a few games. The book if it was written a couple years later could have just as easily been written about the Boston Red Sox, which adopted this statistics based approach after Theo Epstein took over as general manager. Lo and behold, the Red Sox after 84 years of futility, won a World Series largely because of this new way of looking at baseball.  <br /> <br />The book also provides a wonderful historical background for this approach and isn't written like the reader has a degree in mathmatics. Every theory is well explained for the average person who hated and struggled through high school statistics to understand. A historical background for the theories used by Beane and the Red Sox, and as mentioned briefly in the end of paperback edition, later the Blue Jays and the Red Sox, is provided. One of the main characters in the book, Bill James, is the father of many of these statistics and the way of looking at baseball used by Beane.  <br /> <br />The book also isn't just about boring baseball statistics either. Lewis goes into depth about why Beane looks at baseball the way he does. According to Lewis, it's because Beane was a player that, according to the old way of looking at baseball using scouts and data such as 40 yd dash times, was a can't miss prospect. The scouts ignored statistics that would have raised red flags about Beane's major league prospect status. Beane never rose above a major league bench player. This experience, according to Lewis, drives Beane to never make the same mistake that major league general managers made in drafting him so high.<br /> <br />If you're a baseball fan and want to understand how the Oakland A's have won all those games in recent years even after losing players like Miguel Tejada and Jason Giambi, read this book. After reading this book, you'll also come away with some idea of why Beane traded away two of his best pitchers this offseason too.	2005-01-10
US	51880834	R3IIDXFS4MQK41	1589266870	856576592	Breaking the Da Vinci Code	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Wonderful scholarly treatment of Brown's fiction	Bock has written a very fair and balanced treatment of Dan Brown's The DaVinci Code. He does not exhibit any anger at all toward Brown's book or Brown himself. Bock simply seeks to explain the questionable (at best) history behind The Da Vinci code and make readers of the book understand that it is wonderful fiction and \\"should be appreciated as such\\" (a direct quote from Bock's book), but that's all it is, FICTION.  <br />Bock quotes from several first and second century primary sources, most outside of the books that make up the current Bible, to support his contention that there is very little good history to support Brown's claims in his book.  <br />In contrast to many reviewers who have dismissed this book as a \\"hatchet job\\" on Brown with a preconcieved idea to dismiss his claims, Bock has no problem with affirming in part a couple of Brown's claims, such as the role of women in the early Church. This is the mark of a fair and balanced historical treatment.  <br />Bock fully explains that many of the \\"facts\\" presented as contained in actual historical documents in The DaVinci Code, including some of the gnostic gospels, simply do not support the ideas contained in Brown's book. Basically, even his own \\"sources\\" don't even support his arguments. Therefore, many of those arguments, such as the contention that Mary Magdeline's reputation was denegrated as prostitute in order to suppress her real importance to Jesus. The real historical fact is that the ONLY reference to Mary Magdeline as a prostitute was made by a Pope in the fourth century, and this is most likely due to a misreading of the first Bible passages where Mary appears. Bock explains that that passage actually speaks of another Mary as a possible prostitute but that passage introduces Mary Magdeline as a distinct seperate person from the Mary who annointed Jesus feet and was most likely a former prostitute. Mary Magdeline, most likely followed Jesus after he exercised demons from her in one of his many miracles. Mary was a disciple just as the other 12 were disciples. She also served as a \\"disciple to the disciples\\" in telling the story of the resurrected Jesus. No more, no less.   <br />Bock also puts the contention that Jesus as a holy Jew \\"couldn't\\" have been single in historical context. In fact, many strict holy Jews in the first century were single, based upon their reading of God's instructions to them in the Bible. Bock wonderfully addresses the issue of Jesus divinity and conclusively proves, again using first century sources, some of them outside the Bible, that Jesus was definitely thought of as devine several hundred years before Nicia took place. There was no \\"vote\\" on Jesus divinity as Brown's characters contend because that was already a well accepted fact among Christians from the first century forward.  <br />Bock does not specifically address DaVinci's painting because there is no need to. Once Brown's other \\"codes\\" are broken, which Bock does with historical precision and impeccable sources, there is no need to address DaVinci's possible role in a secret society. Once the other more important \\"codes\\" are broken, it's readily apparent that without the foundation of the book, the details of DaVinci's alleged membership in a secret society (which was in fact founded in the 1960s by a French con-man, it is not an ancient society at all) simply aren't worth addressing because it's apparent by Bock's main argument against the other \\"codes\\" that these details on the face of them have no historical basis.   <br />After reading or listening to Bock's very wonderfully sourced treatment of Brown's \\"history\\" no one can go away still convinced in The DaVinci Code's \\"history\\" only that it is a wonderfully written novel by a wonderfully creative author, unless they specifically choose to remain blind to well researched historical facts.	2004-09-23
US	51880834	R28LTXTY1WDKGG	0375508597	362018127	The Age of Sacred Terror	Books	3	8	13	N	N	First half of the book is very good, second half not so	The first half of this book I found very informative and interesting. The authors discuss the historical basis behind what bin Laden and those that agree with him believe and just why they claim to have a religous backing to their beliefs. It is not an indictment of Islam or a witch hunt, but a very informative discussion of the various interpretations of Islam over the thousands of years of its history. In particular, the authors discussion of Wahhabisim and why countries such as Saudi Arabia allow its existance, and even to some extent support it in order to legitimize their own repressive regimes. <BR>The first half of the book is also very good in substantiating how long the US government has known about bin Laden and tracked his movement and his hatred of the United States, including prior attempts to organize terrorist attacks against US interests which culminated in the bombings of US embassies in Africa. Also very interesting is the authors discussion of the problems of institutional culture which permiated the FBI before September 11th and how it contributed to the lack of needed available information given to those in the CIA and in the Executive branch that were in a position to analyze it and act on it to stop attacks in America and against Americans abroad. <BR>Unfortunately, the book suffers from major faults. Either through the lack of available documentation, or simple failure by the authors, much of their information is not documented other than by quotes from those in the Clinton adminstration, most notibly Sandy Berger. However, its left to the reader to simply believe these quotes and the information included in them, and support provided by the authors, is true. <BR>The second half of the book while plausable, is problematic and ideologically driven. The authors, again using unsubstantiated quotes from Berger and others in the second Clinton administration, attempt to assert that the Bush administration did not take their repeated warnings aboutterrorism seriously, and therefore are at least in part responsible for allowing the September 11th attacks. Due to the fact that both of these authors, as well as the people they quote, were out of government, their assertions about what the Bush team did or did not do concerning terrorism and bin Laden in particular are dubious. The authors then go off the deep end, accusing the media and the US population of focusing too much on the scandles and lies of Bill Clinton and not what was important, terrorism. This part of the book makes one's eyes roll, it's totally unsubstantiated and reads like a political ideologically driven diatribe, not good solid scholarship that should be expected of these authors. <BR>This book would have been much better had it simply been concluded with the end of the Clinton administration and their efforts to track bin Laden and supposed, undocumented, attempts to bring him to justice. While believable, and plausable, these assertions ultimately also fail due to lack of available documentation and evidence. Evidence which may or may not ever be available, and certainly won't be available for many years to come.	2003-12-24
US	51880834	R265V71CYBCWJW	0300081065	305955343	Interpreting the Russian Revolution: The Language and Symbols of 1917	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Very interesting book with some flaws	This book by Orlando Figes and Boris Kolonitskii examines how language and symbols were used in and influenced the course of the Russian revolution. <BR>The book is particularly good examining how rumors circulated around Petrograd and Russia about the Imperial family, especially a supposed relationship between the Tsarina and Rasputin and how they undermined the people's confidence in the Tsar. <BR>The book is also very good in examining how symbols and words meant different things to different segments of Russian society, and how the Bolsheviks specifically avoided trying to publically define what each symbol and word meant to them, and therefore let the population believe that whatever they defined something as, the Bolsheviks believed that too and supported it. Figes and Kolonitskii at the end of the book detail how this tendency to let people define something for themselves led to many people defining certain words quite broadly, which led to reprisals against certain people that were defined as too rich or too educated that even the Bolsheviks would not have condoned. <BR>Unfortunately, this book does have some methodological problems. At certain points, Figes supports his argument with nothing more than a citation from his own book, which is a highly dubious practice in scholarly works. The book also in its opening chapter on rumors, doesn't make clear that specific factual evidence of how widespread rumors about the Imperial family is only published evidence from AFTER the February 1917 revolution. The authors assume that because this explosion of anti-Imperial literature occured right after the Tsar was deposed, it must have been wide spread via word of mouth before February 1917. It's a reasonable assumption, but they don't support it well, and also do not make it clear that this published evidence comes after February 1917, not before. <BR>Otherwise however, this is a very good book and extremely readable, unlike other works of the post-moderism genre.	2003-09-12
US	51880834	RL5848BRO0KUN	0415222141	238803990	The Nazi Germany Sourcebook: An Anthology of Texts	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Absolutely essential for serious students of Nazi Germany	This book is long overdue for students of Nazi Germany that have not yet mastered the German language. Included in this book are chapter after chapter of important primary documents from the late 19th century and World War I to the Historians Debate concerning Nazism in the late 20th century.<BR>Stackelberg includes a very readable introduction to each chapter that puts the documents in that chapter in their historical perspective. Most documents are ordered chronologically, however a few are thematically ordered because they're best viewed in that context. <BR>This isn't a book of just dry Nazi government documents either, it includes works from others that were influential in the development of the Nazi ideology, such as Wagner. <BR>In contrast to other books, such as the series by Nokes and Pridham, this book also includes an index, which prevents scholars from having to search through the entire book to find a document on a particular subject. <BR>This book should be read by anyone that has a serious interest in Nazi Germany.	2003-09-04
US	51880834	R3QG9V9DES3EOO	0316321001	533272797	The Generals' War : The Inside Story of the Conflict in the Gulf	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Very good book, horribly edited	Gordon and Trainor have written what is mostly a very readable and very well put together book about the first Gulf War. Students of history should be so lucky to get a book like this on the most recent conflict in the Gulf in a few years time. <BR>The book weaves political and military decisions together seemlessly, and discusses how political considerations did hamper the war effort, in contrast to the line from Washington that the civilians let the generals do all the planning. <BR>Colin Powell does not come out well in this book at all, nor does Gen. Schwartzkopf. The two authors prove that Powell in contrast to his media image at the time, was an extremely reluctant warrior and then wanted to make sure that the US forces did whatever it took to not sustain casualties. Reading this after the second Gulf conflict, one gets a sense of why Powell is Secretary of State and not Secretary of Defense, he seems to have a much better grasp of politics than he does of war. In the book, Schwartzkopf remarks bluntly that Powell does not have the stomach for war, and from what Trainor and Gordon detail, it looks like he is right. <BR>The current value for students of history and not just students of military history and tactics, however, lies in the fact that the Air Force wanted all along in the first Gulf war to topple the Hussein regime and made that a priority, only to have the other services and the civilians in the Bush administration such as Powell and Baker, push that consideration aside. The end of the book details war plans that were even drawn up and immediately classified by an outraged Washington that the field commanders even thought of this, to go to Baghdahd and topple Hussein. <BR>The book is also remarkably instructive on how the US managed to get hoodwinked by Hussein into letting him fly helos anywhere he wanted in Iraq and also not using the occupied oil fields as a bargaining chip because Powell and Schwartzkopf wanted to get out so quickly. Schwartzkopf's failures as a commander in decentralizing his command so much also led to the military not ever understanding the significance of the Battle of Kafji and the Iraqi army's horrible state. If Schwartzkopf had understood the battle's significance, the US and its allies could have possibly destroyed much of the Iraqi Republican Guard much more thoroughly and faster. <BR>Things were so disorganized at the end of the war, the Bush administration failed to even give Schwartzkopf guidance on the terms of the cease fire. All of these mistakes leaving Hussein in power with a military able to suppress internal dissent, and the US to get into a long running needless battle over sanctions and inspections that culminated in the most recent Gulf conflict. If the Bush administration and CENTCOM had done their jobs in the first Gulf war, Hussein would have been gone over a decade ago and Iraq rebuilt.<BR>This is a great book, however, it's horribly edited. There are several misspelled words with many of the chapters having the same passages repeated a few pages apart, especially in the conclusion of each chapter. A better editor should have caught those mistakes and told the authors that the reader didn't need to have something defined to them twice in three pages, and didn't need passages repeated verbatim in the conclusion.	2003-08-25
US	51880834	R2OZK0X4Z462MJ	0394703626	777937386	Lincoln and His Generals	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Great book that nearly misses five stars	This book is a wonderful look at Lincoln and his relationship with his generals and why he went through so many prior to finally appointing Grant, he just couldn't find one that would not when under pressure find all the reason they could not to attack. <BR>The book also does an excellent job of detailing Lincoln's involvement in strategic policy for the Union armies. Surprisingly for a man who'd never held a high military rank, Lincoln displayed an incredible grasp of strategy and frequently understood things generals such as Meade did not. Williams also expands into how upon the appointment of Grant to general in chief, the Union high command evolved into a modern military command, the first of its kind in the world, even more advanced than anything seen in Europe until Moltke the Elder, with the Union army high command consisiting of Commander in Cheif, General in Chief, and a new office designed for Halleck and to keep Grant from having to be in Washington, Chief of Staff. Williams also makes clear the different military culture of the 19th century, in stark contrast to most instances today, a general who disagreed with Lincoln or thought his plan to have dissatisfied the president or simply disliked somone they were told to collaborate with in a battle, instead of trying to work out differences, asked to be relieved of command. <BR>The one major drawback to this book is its lack of maps. There are no maps to follow the action along, so its advisable to have a Civil War atlas at hand in order to be able to place some of the places the battles take place. Also, if you're looking for a detailed &quot;what happend&quot; in the many battles, in most cases you won't get it with this book. This book is purely about the command and control structure of the Union army and how the players interacted with each other. My one final and biggest grip with Williams is that he at many points assumes too much in my opinion. There are many instances where the documentary record when he wrote the book did not state what happend, so Williams assumes that things &quot;must have&quot; or &quot;certainly happend&quot; a certain way without in some cases anything approaching a clear reason why he draws this conclusion. <BR>Other than these few gripes, this is a wonderful book and should be read by anyone wishing to understand why Lincoln went through so many generals.	2003-05-18
US	51880834	R1Y7AC5TZODQCG	0393054381	55119938	The origins of American intervention in the First World War (The Norton essays in American history)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very good synopsis of the road to American intervention	This little book is a wonderful synopsis of the twisted road to American intervention in WW I. Gregory at the beginning of the book states that the book is not designed to break new ground and uncover new interpretations on American entry into WW I, and indeed it does not do so. However, Gregory succeeds in expertly detailing the political and diplomatic wrangling within the American government in the years leading up to WW I. He also succeeds in putting into perspective both the sinking of the Lusitania, and the Zimmerman Telegram, both of which have been named in popular accounts as the &quot;reason&quot; the US declared war on Germany, neither of which is true, it was a complicated myriad of factors which led Wilson to ask for a declaration of war. Gregory also makes clear that some of the blame for the failure of Wilsonian diplomacy must be laid at the feet of not only Wilson, who did not realize the weight of the economic club he could wield against the Allied and Axis nations, but also at the feet of Wilson's advisors, who failed to adequately carry out some of Wilson's instructions designed to get both warring parties to keep the US out of the war. Gregory also deftly explains that the US for a time might have gone to war against England and France due to the fact the British did not respect American neutrality on the seas, it was only the stupidity of the Germans to resume unrestricted submarine warfare that finally pushed Wilson firmly into the allied camp, although his heart had been with the allies more than the Germans all along. <BR>A wonderful introduction to a complicated subject!	2003-04-11
US	51880834	R3PB7B6VTR6QWL	0813109558	623960605	The War to End All Wars: The American Military Experience in World War I	Books	2	5	20	N	Y	A book only a historian of organization could love	On the back of this book, Stephen Ambrose praises this work as a definitive work on the US involvement in World War I, I should have been suspicious of its content from that point on.<br />Coffman's book beyond the first couple chapters is immensely not readable, and at times absolutely confusing. The early part of the book rushes through how the US ultimately came to be involved in the war, and only mentions the Lusitania, the resumption of German unrestricted submarine warfare, the Zimmerman telegram and social factors inside the US among groups that thought war wouldn't be such a bad idea in order to gain premacy for their viewpoint, fleetingly. It also doesn't really discuss Wilson's rejected attempts at mediation of the conflict and his realization that in order to reshape Europe in the way he advocated, the US needed to be involved in the conflict and have &quot;troops on the ground.&quot; Coffman also doesn't discuss how demonizing portrayals of Germany and German soldiers influenced American perception as well as the fact that due to the blockade of Germany and the cutting of the trans-atlantic cable by the British, Germany could not dispell any of these demonizing tales spread in the US of the German army killing civilians and bombarding religious and other historical places with reckless disreguard.<br />What Coffman does give us in this work is a monotonous tome about the organization of the AEF and American air corps. The majority of this book is focused on nothing more than logistics and how the Allied powers needed American force very badly and therefore wanted to hasten our entrance into the war and allow troops to be commanded by French or English commanders, and not seperately. He also drones on about the internal conflict between Pershing and the British and French generals over this and other aspects.<br />To compound this boring tome on logistics, Coffman jumps around in his story. He finally gets to combat done by American pilots, and then in his next chapter begins with an extensive biographical sketch of American armed forces leaders, completely confusing the reader. By the time Coffman gets to actual combat participated in to any large extent by American forces, he stuffs all of this information into one chapter, completely losing the reader.<br />Coffman's maps included in the text are also few and far between as well as horribly designed. The maps don't clearly show the advance of US forces on each day of the battle being discussed, and do not include where the German trenches are relative to the Americans.<br />In short, this may have been a good book thirty years ago, but now it's hopelessly outdated and confusing. There needs to be another scholar in the mode of Martin Gilbert write the story of the AEF and American air corps.	2003-04-09
US	51880834	R3F3704FZBTLFQ	0807122866	835439889	Lee and His Generals in War and Memory	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Interesting compilation of essays but it's got flaws	Gary Gallagher has compiled 13 interesting essays on Robert E. Lee and his CSA Army and its generals. Each individual essay is very interesting, especially his concentration on Jubal Early and the development of the &quot;Lost Cause&quot; myth to explain the defeat of the CSA. Gallagher expertly details how Jubal Early and other early Civil War historians explicitly wanted to make sure that the soldiers of the CSA were portrayed in a positive light, sometimes, regardless of the facts.<BR>Gallagher also attempts to rebuild the reputation of Early destroyed by his defeat in his campaign in the Valley. In doing so, Gallagher explains that a comparison between Early's lack of success and the success in the valley of &quot;Stonewall&quot; Jackson is inappropriate. Early inflicted as many casualties as he could on the forces opposing him, however he was faced with superior generals on the Union side than most of those that faced Jackson. In essance, Gallagher explains that Jackson's success must at least in part be attributed to the fact that he faced incompitent opponents, and Early did not.<BR>There are a couple drawbacks to this book, and while they don't detract from the individual essays, they do detract a bit from the book in its entirety. First, much of the first third of the book, particularly the essays, &quot;The Idol of His Soldiers and the Hope of His Country: Lee and the Confederate People&quot; and &quot;If the Enemy Is There, We Must Attack Him: Lee and the Second Day at Gettysburg&quot; address larger issues than just Lee and his generals, they both seem to me they would have been more appropriately included in Gallagher's work &quot;Lee and His Soldiers.&quot;<BR>While the section on the &quot;Lost Cause&quot; and Jubal Early is very interesting, it also seems that it's misplaced in this book. It seems that it should belong in Gallagher and Nolan's book on the lost cause. <BR>The last section in the book on &quot;historical memory&quot; which includes essays on Ken Burn's miniseries &quot;The Civil War&quot; as well as battlefields, seems also to be out of place in this book. <BR>I'm not sure why Gallagher chose to title this work &quot;Lee and His Generals in War and Memory&quot; when so few of the essays included deal directly with the relationship between Lee and his lieutenants. <BR>Another drawback is that the book doesn't have an epologue that attempts in any way to tie each essay together in a larger framework. Absent this, it really lacks a central focus as a book.	2003-03-22
US	51880834	R146FP66US68P8	0807826316	382260020	Lee and His Army in Confederate History (Civil War America)	Books	4	16	18	N	Y	Outstanding view of Lee and his Army of Northern Virginia	This book is a collection of Gallagher's essays published elsewhere. In this format however, they take on an added dimension and explaination of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia and its commander, Robert E Lee.<br />Gallagher begins by examining Lee's Maryland campaign, Fredericksburg, Gettysburg and the army's campaigns in 1864. His conclusions on the Battle of Gettysburg and its effects on the Confederate home front are particularly interesting. He concludes that the battle was not the overwhelming defeat to the Army of Northern Virginia and the Confederate home front that it would later be portayed as by historians. He makes the argument that the loss of Vicksburg was seen as a vastly bigger loss and Gettysburg was more seen as a small defeat or even a victory because of Meade's failure to chase the Confederates in retreat.<br />Gallagher also includes an interesting essay evaluating the claims of some historians that Lee was not fighting a modern war with modern tactics and if he had done so, the Confederacy would have been better off. He ably demonstrates that indeed Lee did understand the difference in technology such as the minie ball and its impact on strategy and tactics.<br />However, the best essay is Gallagher's essay on the Lost Cause &quot;myth&quot;. Gallagher explains that many of the claims that were later associated only with Lost Cause historians such as Jubal Early or Douglass Southall Freeman, were actually developed during the war and immediately following the war prior to any claims made by Early and others. Thus some of the &quot;myths&quot; such as the overwhelming numerical superiority of the Union as part of the central cause of the Confederacy's defeat, is actually true. He draws the wonderful and correct conclusion that to dismiss the Lost Cause myths in their entirety does a major disservice to the historical profession and that discussing those Lost Cause claims that do have a basis in fact is not in fact giving any legitimacyto any neo-Confederate point of view concerning the centrality of slavery to the origin of the Civil War.<br />The one quibble, and the reason I gave this book four stars instead of five concerns Gallagher's essay &quot;Fighting the Battles of Second Fredericksburg and Salem Church.&quot; I really couldn't find a point as to why this essay was included in the book, unless it was to demonstrate a hard and fast friendship link between Early and Lee that Gallagher does build upon in his essay on the Lost Cause. However, I still think the essay about Fredericksburg really doesn't belong in this format.	2003-03-13
US	51880834	RCV6HL1BHAIB6	0679753141	231859735	The End Of Reform: New Deal Liberalism in Recession and War	Books	3	8	15	N	Y	Good book, gets borning after the beginning of WW II	Too often the New Deal is portrayed as one coherent plan FDR and his administration had for getting the United States out of the depression. The End of Reform is a wonderful correction of this historical myth. Not only did FDR and his advisors have no set plan going in, much of what was accomplished reprisented compromises and backroom political dealing. Brinkley most interestingly details the indecision and political rangling in the FDR White House and with Congress after the beginning of the 1937 recession. Brinkley proves that really FDR didn't know what to do after the beginning of the recession and also after his National Industrial Recovery Act was declared unconstitutional. He also conclusively proves that much of the 1937 recession can be attributed to FDR's agreement with conservative Democrats to balance the budget which resulted in many cuts in social spending. <BR>Also an interesting aspect not discussed in many other books concerns FDR's response to domestic issues after Pearl Harbor. After the beginning of WW II FDR all but ignored domestic issues, largely sitting silent as Congress rolled back many pre-war New Deal reforms. His discussion of the attitude of many people inside the adminsitration wanting to turn to more of a socialist economy with Federal intervention is also quite good. <BR>With so many high school history courses and textbooks portraying the New Deal as a coherent plan that FDR and his advisors knew would bring the US out of the depression.	2003-03-04
US	51880834	R164TG8LQIGYR	0226816273	230247732	A Manual for Writers of Term Papers, Theses, and Dissertations, 6th Edition (Chicago Guides to Writing, Editing, and Publishing)	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Absolutely essential resource	Turabian's book is an absolutely essential resource for any college undergraduate or graduate student that wants to produce quality papers. There's a reason this book is a &quot;classic&quot; work assigned in many English and other humanities classes for many years, it covers nearly everything from the posessive of Jesus to how to cite book chapters to format footnotes and tables of contents.<BR>I do agree that the book does need to be updated to include internet resources, hopefully this will be done in a new edition soon.	2003-03-01
US	51880834	R29XL12CU8UIY7	0691102775	907920356	American Crucible: Race and Nation in the Twentieth Century	Books	2	13	35	N	Y	Misuses evidence, overstates conclusions	Gerstle's book examines the American nation in terms of nationalism through race from the presidency of Theodore Roosevelt to Bill Clinton. Much of Gerstle's book is very interesting and readable, however Gerstle begins to lose steam and starts overreaching to make his points in his chapter on the administrations of FDR. The first of these overreaches is his conclusion that American Jews, Poles and African Americans purchased the most war bonds during WW II. Gerstle admits that data on this information is not available in any form, but relies on \\"impressionistic evidience\\" to make this conclusion. In precise terms, \\"impressionistic evidence\\" is really no more than a scholar's opinion. Gerstle also concludes that Adm. William Halsey directed the soldiers and sailors under his command in the Pacific to commit war crimes with his \\"Kill Japs, Kill Japs, Kill more Japs\\" slogan. Nowhere in this slogan does Halsey advocate war crimes, the slogan while distasteful in the early 21st century simply states a truism of war also conveyed by Gen. George Patton. To paraphrase, \\"The object of war is not to die for your country it's to make the other guy die for his.\\"<br />Gerstle also concludes that memoir literature written by former WW II servicemen illustrates the relationship between white and black soldiers during the war. However, Gerstle chooses to only cite William Manchester's \\"Goodbye, Darkness\\" as \\"especially instructive.\\" Nowhere in Gerstle's text, notes or bibliography is there reference to any other WW II memoir literature, and certainly not of any systematical study of WW II memoir literature that would allow Gerstle to come to this conclusion.<br />Gerstle also reaches into the depths of a polemic in his discussion of the 1960s and 70s in the United States. Gerstle concludes that by the late 60s police forces in the US were doing \\"everything in their power\\" to defeat organizations that advocated black power, including trying to get into armed conflicts with these groups. Nowhere does Gerstle cite any source for this conclusion, so how is one to know if he's right?<br />However, Gerstle reserves his most virulent criticism for Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. Gerstle concludes on the same page that Reagan appointed several African Americans to positions high within the Federal government, but was \\"uncomfortable\\" with blacks. These two statements fly in the face of one another. He also completely misses the point of the Willie Horton advertisement in Bush's campaign against Dukakis. Gerstle chooses to look at race, while the point of the ad was that Dukakis stance on a Massachusettes bill allowed Horton out of jail.<br />Overall, this is a book that is determined to launch into a polemic regardless of the evidence.s. Nowhere does Gerstle cite any source for this conclusion, so how is one to know if he's right?<BR>However, Gerstle reserves his most virulent criticism for Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. Gerstle concludes on the same page that Reagan appointed several African Americans to positions high within the Federal government, but was \\"uncomfortable\\" with blacks. These two statements fly in the face of one another. He also completely misses the point of the Willie Horton advertisement in Bush's campaign against Dukakis. Gerstle chooses to look at race, while the point of the ad was that Dukakis stance on a Massachusettes bill allowed Horton out of jail. <BR>Overall, this is a book that is determined to launch into a polemic regardless of the evidence.	2003-03-01
US	51880834	RMUFQZ2QNXKPQ	0816626219	213979271	Radio Voices: American Broadcasting, 1922-1952	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Decent History of early Radio	Radio Voices is a decent look at radio from the early 1900s to 1952, although Hilmes mostly skirts any discussion of radio's decline after 1945. <BR>She amply discusses the effects of early programs such as Amos 'n Andy which were based on minstrel shows. This discussion and the racial reasons behind them is quite interesting. <BR>However, I think the book at many points turns from an interesting discussion into a polemic, and loses its way. She discusses the \\"ghettoization\\" of women programs to the daytime schedule. I think this really disrespects women listeners of the 1920s and 30s. Yes, many of them were at home and not out working like many men, but Hilmes discusses this topic in a tone that makes it sound like the daytime schedule was \\"second rate\\" when in fact it's the women who make the purchasing choices for most households, not the men who'd be listening more at night. The audience may have been smaller during the day than at night, but it doesn't mean it's less important and certainly shouldn't be referred to as \\"ghettoization\\". <BR>Also she discusses in condesending tones the use of radio by the government and other interests to promote America's intervention in World War II. Like many post-Vietnam academics, it's obvious she likely falsely believes we should have stayed out of that war. It's really a shame she strays into a polemic on some of these topics. Otherwise, it would have been a great book.	2003-02-20
US	51880834	R3PWDG2Q7R9R2M	0521428386	126210075	Making a New Deal: Industrial Workers in Chicago, 1919-1939	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Outstanding view of workers in Chicago between the wars	Making a New Deal is an absolutely incredible look at workers during the Interwar period in Chicago. Cohen has crafted a monumental work that not only covers workers political and union organization but also covers the changes in their lives resulting from societal changes such as the advent of radio and the chain store.<br />What's particularly appealing and interesting about this book is also what it says about modern times. Cohen discusses that due to the advent of radio and national networks, fewer workers got their local and world news from ethnic newspapers or other papers in Chicago. As can be seen from this, the current lement concerning the consolidation of newspapers, TV and radio stations isn't new, it began even in the 1930s. Also interesting is how many immigrant parents worried about their children becoming influenced by American culture that they did not understand, particularly clubs, dance halls and radio music.<br />Cohen's work is profoundly important and most of the book is a great read.	2003-02-17
US	51880834	RRYCP6KVABRH8	0765307154	81417598	The Last Jihad (Political Thrillers Series #1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Great read! Would have been better if he was a better writer	The Last Jihad is a wonderful thrilling read about the possibilities that exist for evil inside the United States should fail to eliminate the threat posed by Saddam Hussein. Overall, the premise is completely believable in the aftermath of September 11th. There is only one stretch that Rosenberg takes in the book, and even that one is believable in a post September 11th environment where \\"sleeper agent\\" has been forced to become part of our vocabulary.<BR>The only major problem with Rosenberg's book is that he writes like a journalist, not a novelist, and also is in need of a better editor. Many of his sentences are too short and clipped of the type that a journalist or public relations writer would write. They are not those of a novelist. However, he will hopefully improve upon that in future novels. There are also numerous strangely constructed sentences that rely on \\"and\\" multiple times in the same sentence. There's also a few grammatical mistakes in the book, obviously overlooked by the editors. A more thorough editor would have made this book a much better read.	2003-01-27
US	51880834	RHGCZX91CUWQY	0156595508	758081773	Middletown: A Study in Modern American Culture	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Very interesting and important book	Middletown is a very interesting and important work of anthropology, sociology and history. Not just because it's the first time anthropological techniques were applied to a study of a single American city, but also Lynd's findings provide an interesting look at how by the time of his writings in the 1920s, things between then and now haven't changed in certain respects. Lynd reports disputes between parents and children over the use of the family autombile, the children out too late at parties and those parties not breaking up until the wee hours of the morning. All of this is certainly still prevalent today in many American families. Lynd also discusses how many people in \\"Middletown\\" did not vote in the 1922 elections and were cynical about politicians in general. This feeling again, is quite prevalent in American politics today.<br />Lynd's book serves to support the cliche, \\"The more things change, the more they stay the same.\\"<br />For anybody who thinks that the problems of American society are new and caused by a decline in morality due to technology and other recent influences, get this book. Lynd will show you that this \\"decline\\" is not new nor caused by recent outside influences such as TV, the Internet. movies or music.	2003-01-27
US	51880834	R3LZ9KU4IAYCPA	0887347428	701677119	The Valley of Fear: Part One the Tragedy of Birlstone and Part Two the Scrowrers	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Half the book is great, the second half is boring	The first half of this classic by Doyle The Tragedy of Birlstone is exciting mystery, Doyle at his absolute best. A wealthy man turns up dead, and Holmes must find his killer, or so everybody thinks. The mystery ends up taking a 180 degree twist, one I never would have predicted. It's absolutely thrilling. <BR>The second half of this book The Scrowrers, I'm not even sure why Doyle bothered. It is supposed to be a &quot;prequel&quot; to the first half of the book, and it falls flat. Holmes and Watson play only a bit part at the end of the book. I will say this however, the action is fast paced. There is much more violence in this section of the book than I've found in other Holmes mysteries. It does explain some details found in the first half of the book, but in my mind it didn't need to have an entire 100 or so pages dedicated to this detail. You can read the first half of the book and skip the second without feeling like you're missing a thing.	2003-01-23
US	51880834	RY6BN96CE21SN	B00005W1AH	508268561	His last bow; a reminiscence of Sherlock Holmes	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great Literature	This book is a compilation of eight short stories \\"written\\" by Dr. Watson after Holmes \\"retirement.\\" All are set after his capture of Dr. Moriarty.<BR>The first three short stories, aren't that interesting. I found myself knowing the end result way before the end of the story. However, the fourth story \\"The Adventure of the Bruce-Partington Plans\\" which concerns a young man working for the British government that ends up dead on the London subway tracks with 7 of the 10 pages of plans for a super secret submarine in his pocket. The other three are missing. Holmes and Watson must find out who killed the young man and where the plans are. This one is not only the best one of the book, but also one of the two longest. <BR>The other great story in the book is The Adventure of the Devil's Foot. <BR>There's also a great historical insight in the book, with a couple of the characters and plot lines surrounding the British conflict with Germany, and one is also set after the beginning of World War I. <BR>I whole heartedly recommend this book to anybody interested in mysteries or great literature.	2003-01-20
US	51880834	R3N17LWF5NZ4S	0738834572	901204246	Call The Briefing	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Outstanding Insider's View of the White House	Fitzwater's book is perhaps one of the finest insiders views of the White House and the White House press corps to ever be published. <BR>Fitzwater details the inner workings of the Reagan White House like none other, including the scandals and how they did not affect the inside of the White House regardless of the pressure from the media. His admiration for Ronald Reagan is palpable in this book, however he's not as favorable to George Bush. While it's clear he personally likes Bush, it's also clear that he did not agree with Bush's policies and the rest of the Bush White House team as much as he seemed to agree with much of the Reagan White House. However, overall the only person to come out of Fitzwater's book looking bad is John Sununu the former Chief of Staff. He comes off as paranoid and really a generally nasty guy. <BR>Fitzwater also writes probably the finest view of why Bush lost the 1992 Presidental race and the bungling inside of the White House that caused it. Unfortunately he avoids writing much about the invasion of Panama and Desert Storm, two of the biggest events of the Bush Presidency. Fitzwater rationalizes this by stating many other books will be written on those two events, however I would liked to have known how he handled it in terms of the briefings and the announcement of the invasion of Panama and the beginning of Desert Storm.<BR>Overall, this is a fine book and should be read by anyone who wants an insider's view of what the Washington Press Corps and their relationship with the White House is really like as well as anyone interested in how Bush managed to turn huge popularity raitings during and after Desert Storm into a political defeat in 1992.	2003-01-13
US	51880834	R2VXVC5OWYRGFR	0809232073	236358392	Jack Brickhouse: A Voice for All Seasons	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Brickhouse himself is the only thing that saves this book	The only reason I gave this book three stars instead of one or two is Jack Brickhouse himself. Brickhouse in this book comes across as the wonderful man and broadcaster he was. Unfortunately, this book is poorly written. The author in three seperate chapters retells the same stories over again instead of introducing new material on Brickhouse, and I'm sure there is more to his life story than is presented in any one book. Additionally, while Brickhouse is one of the more colorful characters to ever broadcast baseball, the author of this book really doesn't present many interesting stories retold by Brickhouse of his days in broadcasting. This book unfortunately is forgettable because of its incredible need for a good editor.	2003-01-09
US	51880834	RJ6T0V6AR61HL	0807821551	128517052	The Third Day at Gettysburg & Beyond (Military Campaigns of the Civil War Series)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Decent Historiography	The Third Day at Gettysburg and Beyond edited by Gary Gallagher is a nice relatively short volume of historiographical works on the last day at Gettysburg and it's immediate aftermath. <BR>The book is not without its problems. In his chapter &quot;Lee's Army Has Not Lost its Prestige&quot; Gallagher asserts that the defeat at Gettysburg was not a crushing defeat for the Confederacy and the defeat at Vicksburg was a much larger defeat for the CSA and its people. While this conclusion is interesting, it's completely at odds with Gallagher's later assertion in his book The Confederate War, that Lee's army was of paramount importance to the people of the CSA. His conclusion that the populace was not as concerned about Gettysburg based upon analysis of letters and diaries needs more study. However, his conclusion that Gen. Lee originally did not regard the defeat at Gettysburg as a crushing blow is well grounded as is his conclusion that Lee's soldiers were not crushed by the defeat which they attributed to the Union army simply having the advantage of better ground and &quot;not fighting a fair fight.&quot; Their confidence was certainly not crushed and they believed they did inflict a blow to the Union army in the previous three days fighting. <BR>William Garrett Piston's chapter &quot;Cross Purposes&quot; on Gen. Longstreet and his orders for the final days fighting which ended up causing Lee to order the ill fated, and misnamed, Pickett's charge is also quite interesting. Piston fails to convince however that it was in fact Longstreet not following Lee's orders that caused the disaster. However he does acknowledge ultimate blame falls on Lee for not following through with Longstreet's plan once in motion, he didn't have to order the ill fated charge. <BR>However, after these two chapters the book starts to take a turn and not for the better. Carol Reardon's chapter on Pickett's Charge focuses on the historiographical conflicts waged after the war concerning the responsibility for the failure of the charge. While this is interesting, it really doesn't have much to do with the actual aftermath of the conflict or the charge itself. It only includes a small discussion of which account of the charge and the responsibility for its ultimate failure, is correct. <BR>Perhaps the most interesting chapters are the last two in the book. Robert L. Bee includes the wartime correspondance of Sgt. Ben Hirst's account of the fighting and its aftermath, as well as mentioning his accounts of other battles. Hirst's letters detail the horror of war in a very intense way that brings the action to life for the reader. <BR>A. William Greene conclusively demonstrates that the charges against Gen. Meade of not pursuing Lee after the battle are completely baseless. Bad weather as well as the fact the Confederate army was not as defeated and lacking supplies as Lincoln and many historians after the battle would have one believe, demonstrate had Meade gone after the Confederate army his own army, lacking sleep, food and shoes, would likely have been repulsed on the banks of a swollen Potomac by an angry, well supplied, Confederate Army with many of its soldiers looking for another fight. These charges also ignore that Meade's actual orders were to protect Washington and Baltimore, and force him away from the Federal capital and out of Maryland, not attempt a crushing defeat of Lee which would have taken him and Lee much closer to Washington. Given Lincoln's paranoia about protecting the Federal capital, had Meade spoiled for a fight nearer Washington, Lincoln likely would have criticized him for putting the capital in jeopardy. The consequences of such a battle for the Union had Lee's army been successful would have been desasterous. <BR>Overall, this is a decent historiography that loses its way in the middle with Reardon's chapter and Robert K. Krick's chapter on two Virginia Confederate soldiers. Had those chapters been replaced by ones more germane tothe fighting the last day at Gettysburg, this would have been a better book.	2003-01-09
US	51880834	R1OCIA6YZNKK2P	0873385802	971303924	Confederate Tide Rising: Robert E. Lee and the Making of Southern Strategy, 1861-1862	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Excellent Book but requires some prior knowledge	I've had the pleasure of knowing Dr. Harsh for several years after taking a class on the Civil War with him at George Mason University. <br />This book came out of the seperation into three books of a manuscript he wrote on Gen. Lee and the campaign just prior to the Maryland campaign and then the Maryland campaign itself. This book is immensely readable and quite detailed. Dr. Harsh is quite blunt when there is a lack of clear evidence on a subject and the reasons for his judgment are well reasoned and sound. My opinion of Confederate strategy and the role of Jefferson Davis in the formation of that strategy changed a great deal after reading Confederate Tide Rising. While he is not the subject of this book, my view of Gen. Jackson also changed as the result of reading this book. Due to his performance in many of the battles and lead up to the battles discussed in this book, it's obvious to me that Jackson has been overrated by historians and could have been much more criticized by Gen. Lee than he was. That he did not do so postwar and only midly criticized Jackson in the action discussed in this book says a lot about Gen. Lee the man.<br />There are only a few drawbacks to this book. The first is that Dr. Harsh sometimes I think assumes knowledge of minor engagements and also political developments which were important but not directly germaine to his discussion that the reader may not possess. He would have been better served to not just mention these engagements and political developments and leave the reader wondering but to further discuss these developments and their importance, such as the Trent affair which he mentions twice before discussing what it was. <BR>My second gripe with this book has been noted by a previous reviewer. There is a woeful lack of maps, which I think is simply unforgivable in any military history book. As Dr. Harsh clearly demonstrates, terrain and locations are particularly important in civil war battles and helped determine the tactics and strategy employed by Gen. Lee, Gen. McClellan and Gen. Pope. I have a working knowledge of some of the places discussed in the book because I live near many of them, however many readers in other parts of the country who do not have an extensive knowledge of the Civil War yet, may not. The lack of maps would really hamper their understanding of Dr. Harsh's points. <br />However, one thing that helps this book despite all that is Dr. Harsh's discussion of several terms and their uses in books on the the Civil War as well as how the Civil War generals themselves would have understood those terms such as strategy and tactics. This sort of a discussion is absent in most works on the war and I believe really hampers the understanding of many who look to gain knowledge on the war. <br />Overall, this book is essential for any Civil War bookshelf and should be accompanied by Dr. Harsh's other two books, Taken at the Flood and Sounding the Shallows.	2003-01-06
US	51880834	R2400N90Y8WAR	067416055X	305697349	The Confederate War	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Vital for a Civil War Collection	In this short but very important work, Gallagher challenges the notion that the Confederacy did not develop a sense of nationalism and also many of the notions of the &quot;lost cause&quot; theory as well as a notion that the Confederacy was &quot;stabbed in the back&quot; by extensive internal tension among the populace as well as desertions. Gallagher uses many diaries and letters to bring home his points that the citizens of the CSA did in fact develop an extensive sense of nationalism and supported their cause right up until the end at Appomattox and even beyond. Gallagher also proves that while there were extensive disertions among some troops during many points in the war, many of those same troops rejoined their units after taking care of affairs at home. He also shows that rather than encouraging disertion because of problems at home, many Confederate women encouraged their men to stay with the army and not shirk their responsibilities to the CSA. Many historians also have recently concluded the CSA would have been better served to adopt a strategy of guerilla warfare against Union troops, Gallagher shows why this strategy would have been detrimental to southern society and the slave holding republic it wished to establish and therefore many recent historians miss the mark in asserting this strategy would have been proper and acceptable to the southern populace which wanted victories over Union forces. <BR>My only gripe with this book is that it is really a compliation of several lectures by Dr. Gallagher that have been footnoted and extended. Therefore they really don't form an interconnected narrative and read like seperate small books. Had Dr. Gallagher attempted to form a more complete narrative with each of his sections of the book it would have been much better. However this is still an outstanding book and necessary for any serious student of the Civil War.	2003-01-01
US	51880834	REUOCFS9D4PCO	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Outstanding "insiders" view of the war on terror	Woodward has put together another outstanding \\"insiders\\" view of the war on terror, and all of its problems. He details the political and military problems in responding to the September 11th attacks and also how President Bush and his team fought through setbacks in order to hammer out a strategy to begin the war on terror. What is especially interesting is President Bush's seeming outstanding control of the situation from the first days, he does not come out of this book as weak or indecisive at all but as a very strong leader who knew what had to be done. The most interesting point in this book however are the internal discussions about extending the war on terror and how Iraq was on the table and pushed by Vice President Chaney almost from the beginning. This book is necessary for anyone wishing to gain insight on what the discussions inside the Bush administration on the decision to go to war against Iraq now must be like. <BR>My only small gripe as a historian are the complete lack of footnotes and citations by Woodward. This book would be much more useful to future historians and readers if Woodward would cite the sources for his information.	2003-01-01
US	51880834	R3ASWUCJDKS0A3	0195130928	131606131	Between Dignity and Despair: Jewish Life in Nazi Germany (Studies in Jewish History)	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Accurate Portrayal of the results of hatred	Missing in many Holocaust works are the experiences of common German Jews and what daily life for them became like after Hitler's rise to power in the early 1930s. One can read about the Nuremberg Laws or the November Pogrom but one can't get a real feel for how those laws impacted daily life except through memoirs and the testimony of common people. Marion Kaplan's book wonderfully fills the gap between history from the \\"top down\\" and history from the \\"bottom up.\\" <BR>This book makes you realize that stories of hiding and rescue weren't just an occasional thing that's celebrated by Hollywood in such things as Schindler's List, but they happend every day. Kaplan also makes it clear the incredible courage involved in hiding and also the courage of others who hid Jews during Hitler's reign of terror. One bone of contention among historians many times is also how popular were the anti-Semitic measures, with many historians asserting that the population at large really wasn't that bad. Kaplan's book destroys any myths that the German popluation didn't overwhelmingly approve of Hitler's anti-Semitic measures, even if they perhaps didn't see the conclusion of them coming in the \\"Final Solution.\\" If a German didn't know about the anti-Semitic measures it's only because they willingly didn't pay attention or tried to delude themselves. <BR>One interesting part that Kaplan writes about are the Jews who collaborated with the Nazis in cities as \\"Jew Hunters,\\" including one Jewish woman who led the Gestapo to over 60 hidden Jews in a single day. Reading stories such as this, perhaps Hannah Arendt's frightening conclusion wasn't so far off in that without the help of the Jews many more could have been saved.<BR>The one drawback to this book is that Kaplan focuses on memoirs and testimony exclusively from women and assumes much about the male Jewish population. This could have been a much better book if she had included memoirs from a wider selection of men rather than constantlyreferring to Klemperer's book.	2002-09-10
US	51880834	R34BBHW98LCY80	039457608X	140298375	Stolen Season: A Journey Through America and Baseball's Minor Leagues	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Outstanding book	David Lamb's summer through the minor leagues is one of the most outstanding baseball books I've ever read. He writes like a storyteller and really makes the reader care about every team and player he writes about. These players, particularly in the low minors, really play baseball for the love of the game and the chance they might make it big one day. Lamb also takes the time to make the local color of the towns he visited come alive. With all the problems of Major League Baseball now, this book will remind you why you care about baseball.	2002-08-23
US	51880834	R167L6XA55DCPD	0140235426	913684934	Six Armies in Normandy: From D-Day to the Liberation of Paris; June 6 - Aug. 5, 1944; Revised	Books	1	14	41	N	N	Look elsewhere	Keegan's an overrated historian and this isn't one of his better efforts. He does detail certain figures well but, as with his WW II survey book, the book jumps around and there really isn't a comprehensive flow to it. In addition, he deliberately skips many central points of the invasion and it's aftermath in order to include information on other units smaller scale exploits. This book should only be read along with a much better account, such as the book by Carlo D'Este.	2002-08-22
US	51880834	R1Y0OFL0VKEXFY	0198730578	566236116	The Peculiarities of German History: Bourgeois Society and Politics in Nineteenth-Century Germany	Books	2	18	48	N	N	Important book...badly written	This book is a very important counter argument to the Sonderweg thesis and should be read by anyone wishing to understand why Germany ended up with a leader like Hitler. <BR>However, while this book is incredibly important it's just unreadable. The authors use evidence and other information from the English and French revolutions to back up their point and sometimes its difficult for the reader to grasp if this book is about Germany or France and England. This book should be classified as one of the \\"really bad books\\" that despite being absolutely a wretched read is important for a historian to have on their shelf.	2002-08-22
US	51880834	R2ABQUAXTLTNMR	9992783567	124241603	War As I Knew It	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good and Important Book	This book starts off a little slow, detailing Gen. Patton's exploits in North Africa but picks up after the invasions of Italy and France. The book details quite well the decisions and view of the war from the \\"top down\\" and why certain moves were made. Gen. Patton is, in my opinion deservedly, quite harsh when discussing Gen. Montgomery and from this book one gets the view that part of Ike's biggest headache was just keeping these two primadonnas from going at one another and forgetting their main goal, defeating the Nazis. He doesn't exactly come out and say it plainly, but it's obvious Gen. Patton thought Montgomery's Market Garden operation was stupid, and events proved him right. He's quite unapologetic when discussing the incidents of slapping soldiers suffering from battle fatigue or post-traumatic stress syndrome. Incidents that eventually resulted in his removal. He also openly advocates going after the Soviets once the Nazis had been defeated but doesn't really back it up with much logic.<br />Overall, if you want to understand WW II and the war in Europe this is an important and necessary book.	2002-08-22
US	51880834	R1RN9JH35B7I6J	0521567548	847184578	Imperial Germany and the Great War, 1914-1918 (New Approaches to European History)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Very good book	This book combines a look at the WW I battlefield with events on the German homefront very well. Chickering focuses on the homefront and details very well the reaction to mobilization and the events of the war, as well as the defeat. One of the best chapters of the book is on the myth of the stab in the back. This book really is a necessary read if one also wants to understand the &quot;other half&quot; of the European Civil War, WW II.	2002-08-22
US	51880834	R306F0AURH9R4T	014011341X	243604121	The Second World War	Books	2	17	38	N	N	Vastly overrated	Keegan is a vastly overrated historian and so is this book. Unlike books such as Martin Gilbert's book on WW II Keegan jumps from topic to topic and its only marginally organized by chronology of events. This structure would work except Keegan really neglects to form an overall picture of the war at any point so the reader can really connect all of the chapters. Some of them are easy to connect, but many are not. <BR>Keegan is also, by his own admission, strictly a \\"military historian of a rather technical sort.\\" Among other historians of WW II, he's known as a \\"rivet counter\\" and makes no real attempt to include social history of any sort. This really is why the book ultimately fails. <BR>WW II wasn't just about Hitler making a land grab, it was about Hitler's insane racial theories as well, particularly against the Jews and Russian communists. No where in this volume does Keegan really address these issues. One cannot write a good history of WW II without discussing its major legacy of horror, the Holocaust. Despite Keegan's reluctance to admit that behind almost every decision Hitler made, particularly the invasion of the Soviet Union, were racial reasons, he makes no attempt to even discuss the Holocaust as it relates to the lack of resources given to the army due to the elimination of the Jews taking precidence, particularly late in the war by late 1943 and 1944. Any good military historian knows that logistics is the most important part of winning any operation and the German armed forces didn't get as much due to the trains and other things being used to kill Jews. <BR>However, Keegan's obvious personal views I believe can explain why he indeed does not include the Holocaust. After notorious British nutcase David Irving sued Deborah Lipstadt for calling him a Holocaust denier in a book, and lost, Keegan stated that Irving was a fine historian and the profession has much to learn from him while he didn't believe anyone would hear from Lipstadt again. Simply put, Keegan's views are rather suspect to say the least. <BR>A much better book is \\"A War to be Won.\\"	2002-08-22
US	51880834	R2ZB0TGPYC7XOY	0679767436	757818213	The Battle For History: Re-fighting World War II	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Outstanding	While I generally don't like Keegan, I can't dispute the fact that he is usually very well researched. This book is absolutely essential for anyone wishing to begin a thorough study of WW II. Unfortunately it is a bit dated now, especially with the explosion of WW II material published since Saving Private Ryan. So I do wish Keegan would take the time to update and rerelease this wonderful volume.	2002-08-22
US	51880834	R385Y1XEDERZVP	0440226481	547722131	The Mighty Eighth: The Air War in Europe as Told by the Men Who Fought It	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very good book and great read!	Astor has done an incredible job with this book. His sources are sound and it's incredibly readable as well. The best part of this book is the fact that Astor uses so many incidents and details from the members of the 8th AF themselves. He really makes the reader care about the people he writes about and the entire 8th AF as a whole. Unlike other books he also brings the horror of even the air war to life. A reader vividly gets the feel that while the war on the ground was worse, the air war was no picinic either.	2002-08-22
US	51880834	R3MBZI3RQ5FSY3	0321023870	48050147	A Short Guide to Writing About History (Short Guide Series)	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Extremely helpful book	Marius has written an extremely readable and informative book on the writing of history. He proceeds from showing readers what questions to ask in doing historical research into types of historical writing can be done, from discriptive to argumentitive. <BR>However, the most useful part of the book is the chapter on sources and writing. He skillfully shows readers how to choose a topic and narrow their focus into a managable paper. He also discusses the use of CD-Rom and Internet sources, a necessity for any good book on the writing of history in the early 21st century, particularly due to the increase in the reliance on Internet research by college undergraduates and HS students that are comfortable with this technology. The book also makes actually doing research seem like not such a daunting scary task, which at first thought it seems like for many undergraduates. The one problem with this section is that Marius advocates the use of paper notes. As has been seen with many professional academic historians lately, the use of paper notes can end up costing the writer dearly, particularly with the use of a large amount of sources. Marius should have included a section on how to use a data base or other computerized note taking system. <BR>Marius also uses many examples to back up his points throughout the book, even publishing one complete paper and then commenting on its strengths and weaknesses in order to give the reader a better understanding. The remainder of the book is an extremely useful three chapters on writing mechanics as well as quoting and citing a variety of sources. I found the section on footnotes quite good and useful. This section will be especially useful for the undergraduate who arrives on campus without ever having to use footnotes while in high school. <BR>Overall, this is an outstanding book. The only real drawback is that since its publication (3rd edition) the sections on the Internet are in many ways obsolete. But with the ever changing technology and things available on the Internet, both good and bad, no book can keep up.	2002-08-22
US	51880834	R33PF43X5MZC9C	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	3	10	N	N	Outstanding book	The Bear and the Dragon is an outstanding book that upholds the high standards of Clancy's Jack Ryan series. As previous reviewers have mentioned, the book does start out a bit mythodically, however if you've read any of Clancy's books before one knows the action is coming eventually and you just enjoy the ride and character development. <BR>I was a bit dissapointed with the ending however, one gets the feeling that at just over 1100 pages Clancy's publisher possibly told him the book needed to end, even authors such as Tom Clancy must have to deal with overbearing publishers sometimes. The ending just seemed a bit too predictable, not in that the Americans and Jack Ryan would win, as he always does pretty much, but how it happend. I predicted the ending a couple pages ahead of time. Perhaps with this one Clancy got a little too Hollywood for his own good, at least subconciously thinking of what would make a good climactic movie ending. IMO Rainbow Six's role should have been increased in this book. <BR>While Clancy is known for his research, especially in details of military hardware, the dialogue in this book from the Russian and Chinese army officers just sometimes doesn't seem like it rings true. Sometimes it seems like an American putting American dialogue and American reactions into people of another culture. In my opinion his previous books had better and in my opinion probably more accurate dialogue for the Russian military officers than this one does. The Chinese dialogue, especially during the battle scenes, gave me the feeling that Clancy really doesn't know how the Chinese soldiers would react or the dialogue they'd use. I think Clancy if he didn't do so should have sat down with an expert on Chinese culture and their military in order to concieve more accurate responses in the dialogue. <BR>However, all in all this is a wonderful book. It's a pity that after his next book we may see the retirement of Jack Ryan. But unlike his first book on Clark withoutRyan, I think Clancy's done a wonderful job of introducing his fans to Clark and Rainbow Six, which also is included in this book, and they'll carry on the legacy of wonderful Tom Clancy characters.	2002-08-05
US	51880834	R28GVF9HORDK0Q	0944379044	589962776	Mein Kampf	Books	5	6	15	N	N	Important book but a horrid read	One must have a strong stomach, as well as a lot of time to pay attention to Hitler's musings, to be able to sit and read this book cover to cover. This book is obviously an important book that should be in every bookshelf of a student of history, but that doesn't make it readable. Hitler's statements about the Jews and other things such as Lebensraum are well known in other secondary sources, the value of Mein Kampf is to be able to read them in their own convoluted badly written context.	2002-07-07
US	51880834	R7NC5A33JURAP	0520026268	333038180	The Politics of Cultural Despair: A Study in the Rise of the Germanic Ideology (California Library Reprint Series)	Books	5	26	30	N	N	Excellent book	Stern's book is an excellent study of German anti-semitism and Pan Germanism that ultimately concluded in Hitler and the Nazis. While it's impossible to prove that Hitler read the three authors that Stern studies in this book it's quite likely that Hitler either did read them or someone close to him read them and detailed their contents to him. Many of Hitler's ideas are either directly in the writings of the three men studied in this book or are extensions of their writings. A vastly important book that will lead a reader to the conclusion that Hitler wasn't just an \\"accident\\" of German history, he was its ultimate frightening conclusion.	2002-07-07
US	51880834	R3RODOUXLEAR27	0333949447	310227080	The Eastern Front, 1941-45: German Troops and the Barbarisation of Warfare (St Antony's Series)	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Important and excellent book	This book should be on the shelf of every student of WW II history. Bartov is one of the first historians to detail in English the real truth behind the shameful conduct of the German army on the Eastern front and dispel the myth of the \\"honorable\\" German army that was propogated during the years after the war. Bartov also wonderfully details the horrible conditions experienced by the German soldiers that he asserts helped lead to their barbarous conduct as well as the criminal orders by Hitler. In addition to dispelling the myth of the \\"honorable German army\\" he also does a wonderful job of dispelling any myth that the fighting on the Eastern front was mechanized and that the German army wasn't as fully mechanized as is commonly believed, they mostly relied on horses. This is another important part of his study. All in all, a wonderful book and deserves to be an important part of any WW II Eastern front collection.	2002-07-07
US	51880834	R16C4UJ5WD34JB	0679642226	502233696	Hitler and the Holocaust (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Great book	Wistrich does a wonderful job of condensing information about a huge topic into a very useful small volume. It doesn't go into a huge amount of detail about every aspect of the Holocaust or the anti-semitism leading up to it, but it is a great book for beginners, particularly high school or college undergraduates looking for an introduction to this horrible subject. <BR>As the previous reviewer said, Wistrich does do a wonderful job of documenting his sources and I too got a lot of further reading and research ideas from this book.	2002-07-07
US	51880834	R3CGJC9QMH44HG	0195079035	139376786	Hitler's Army: Soldiers, Nazis, and War in the Third Reich (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	14	20	N	N	Excellent well reasoned book	This book is a &quot;micro history&quot; that uses a case study of three German army units, as well as information about other units, to detail the experience of the German army on the Eastern Front. Bartov seeks to prove and then to explain why and how the German army engaged in war crimes on the Eastern front that have previously been blamed on only the SS. <BR>The one fault I have with this book is there isn't really much new information that isn't in Bartov's previous work on the Eastern front. I do wish he would have included further information on additional units for this book.	2002-07-07
US	51880834	R2I0GZ8ME15AI	0452011248	143462375	Treblinka	Books	3	4	10	N	N	Good, but flawed book	This book does a wonderful job of detailing what life may have been like for people inside Treblinka and in that respect belongs on everyone's shelf along with classic Holocaust books like Primo Livi's Survival in Auschwitz. However, Steiner's book does have one fatal flaw for serious students of history looking for \\"facts.\\" Much of this book is in fact, fiction.	2002-07-07
US	51880834	R1GUWP93T0KHGO	0859894746	599754844	Nazism 3: Foreign Policy, War and Racial Extermination (History)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Good book with problems	This is a book full of useful primary documents as well as excerpts of diaries, reports and other sources. I found the section on the euthanasia program especially useful in my own research.<BR>Unfortunately this book has major problems that make its use by historians problematic. The authors unfortunately did not decide to use footnotes therefore the reader doesn't know where exactly these things come from and if they were simply taken from other secondary sources, as the authors do in a couple sections acknowledge that the section relies heavily on the secondary source of another author. <BR>In addition to the lack of footnotes, the book does not have an index. Therefore if one is looking for something on Auschwitz, for example, one would have to flip through the book, and particularly the section on the camps, looking. This is a huge problem, especially in such a large book. <BR>The maps in the back of the book are also extremely useful and a great addition to the book.	2002-07-05
US	51880834	R2JMXKAVXFKYLQ	067477650X	103348949	The Rocket and the Reich: Peenemnde and the Coming of the Ballistic Missle Era	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Incredible book but tough reading	If you want to know a lot of technical information about the German rocket program in World War II this is the place to start. Neufeld has a grasp of the technical side of the program like no other historian, however his writing style leaves much to be desired. A good plus of the book is that he includes diagrams of the missles as well as a couple sections of pictures that give the reader an idea what the things and places he writes about look like. I found being able to visualize certain things makes understanding it much easier. He also includes an appendix with a chronology of the German rocket program that readers will find helpful for quick short references to each successive rocket in the program. Overall this is an excellent book, I give it 4 stars instead of 5 only due to Neufeld's writing style which makes this book tough going in some sections that include lots of boring, and in my opinion, overkill, technical detail.	2002-01-27
US	51880834	RAMDOYI4YI3JM	006095339X	497867283	Explaining Hitler	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent historiography	This book is simply excellent. Rather than write a biography of Hitler, which has already been done hundreds of times, Rosenbaum set out to write about the historians that have written about Hitler and the Third Reich. He also includes in the book details about his journey to Austria, which is quite a nice story in itself. Particuarly well written are his chapters on Holocaust denier and discredited historian David Irving and the controversial, but legitimate, Daniel Goldhagen. Rosenbaum interviewed several historians on the question of \\"Why?\\" Hitler did what he did, and in the process revealed many interesting insights, such as the fact Alan Bullock now seems to almost disown his own book, Hitler: A Study in Tyrrany and no longer agree with the conclusions he reached a few decades ago. This book is an important work in the historiography of Hitler and the Third Reich.	2002-01-27
US	51880834	R3RWNEQQGQ0QE8	0521425654	293288697	The Russian Revolution, 1917 (New Approaches to European History)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Extremely well written	While at George Mason University I had the honor of taking a class from Dr. Wade while he was writing this book. It turned out as an outstanding effort. Not only is the book scholarly and well researched, it is extremely well written, a rarity for scholarly historical works. Unlike previous books, Dr. Wade gives significant focus on previously overlooked minorities such as women while still maintaining focus on the workers and pesants.	2001-11-23
US	51880834	R3KPMLDK9IDETT	0890968071	885210933	Tomorrow the World: Hitler, Northwest Africa, and the Path Toward America (Texas A&M University Military History Series, No. 57)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Interesting, but unfulfilled promises	Norman Goda's book is interesting, however there is except for a chapter or two, very scant information about Hitler's intentions toward the United States. The book loses its focus in Hitler's convoluted aims toward Northwest Africa and just what he planned to do with those bases if he ever got them, is really never discussed. However, a previous reviewer is wrong, Hitler was never a decent military tactician, he was a horrible tactician. If his generals had always listened to what Hitler ordered, Germany would have lost the war a lot faster than it did, this wasn't a case of Hitler planning just for an eventuality. Goda is very persuasive in his contention that Hitler did have a goal to attack and eliminate the United States at least since 1927-28. Unfortunately, Goda only discusses the H Class ships and the Amerika bomber in passing and never provides any evidence of just what Hitler planned to do with the bases he wanted in any attack toward America.	2001-10-29
US	51880834	R10H5M88WAX4HA	0385479565	905671096	The Hot Zone: The Terrifying True Story of the Origins of the Ebola Virus	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Outstanding!	This book is outstanding and a thrill a minute. Perhaps the scariest part of this book is that it is based on a true story. In light of the recent terrorist attacks this book I think provides a good example of how hard those who work with viruses and other diseases will try to protect the American population from anything a terrorist attempts to do to us. This is no question a scary book, but there are genuine heroes in this story too.	2001-10-29
US	51880834	R30NVJY1Q9PG1E	0789717697	604585044	Complete Idiots Guide to Adobe Photoshop 5	Books	5	27	27	N	N	I learned SO much!	This book is wonderful for anyone who's ever been intimidated by Photoshop and all its tools. The author lays out everything in a style everyone can understand and he doesn't get too technical with his words, although he does present techinical information and words for those who want it.  The best thing about this book is that he has an exercise to go along with almost everything he writes about, which enables the reader to sit at their own PC/Mac and use Photoshop while following along with the book. He also has a &quot;put it all together&quot; exercise at the end of the book so you can know how to put a lot of the tools you've learned about into use together to create great art, even for the &quot;graphically challenged&quot; such as myself.	2001-02-09
US	51880834	R1K4TA6O570W1A	0140170413	803838595	The Price of Glory: Verdun 1916	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Chillingly wonderful book	Mr. Horne's book is rightfully a classic, and is the place to begin for anyone wishing to understand why WW I is still referred to as &quot;The Great War&quot; by its few remaining veterans. Horne is at his best when discribing horrific nearly unimaginable carnage of the Verdun battlefield and in the surrounding forts. As another reviewer states, Horne's biases are quite evident throughout the text. He does not have much, if anything, good to say about the German commanders, although his treatment of the common German soldier is much more fair I believe. He also doesn't have much good to say about Haig, and takes every opportunity he can get to criticize him. Sometimes he's quite fair in his criticisms, sometimes it feels like he's deliberately exercising his own personal agenda that he has for whatever reason, against Haig.  The one German who does fair well in his book is the Crown Prince. To that end, Horne suggests that the Crown Prince posessed a common sense much better than that of any German commander and refused to associate himself with the Nazis for long after the war, because he forsaw where they would take Germany. He blames the Kaiser for not putting the Crown Prince in a better position of authority to avoid the disaster that befell the world at Verdun.  Ultimately, the most prevalent theme in his book is one that I've found runs through most WW I books, and that is of the sheer stupidity among the causes of this war and how needless it all was; if only specific men in charge had the courage to end it.	2001-02-04
US	51880834	RF3EHER471N3J	0806131101	40067460	Shannon Miller: My Child, My Hero	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good book...	Overall, I think this book is a better book than the one authored by Shannon herself. Yes, it is a bit overdone in spots, but any mother who loves her child is going to overdo things a bit. I also think it's easy to discount the overdramatized and over done things while still enjoying a good read. Shannon's relationships and not so perfect side of life as a world class gymnast are also better discribed here than in Shannon's book, the Miller world doesn't always seem so eerily perfect in this book. I think it's probably as well done and as &quot;objective&quot; of a portrait as any mother could do for her daughter. As for the weight issues and other things, nobody in gymnastics truly ever talks about those things, and most don't find a problem with them. I didn't expect Shannon's mother too either, and wasn't suprised when she didn't discuss the subject.	2000-12-21
US	51880834	R17SMODK18BZQS	0553097768	820552425	Winning Every Day	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good, not great...	This book's a good one, but not a great book at all. Shannon does come across as a little too perfect, and I simply have trouble believing that the diary entries were written exactly the way they're printed in the book. Although, Shannon does seem like a perfectionist (even though she says she's not) maybe they were written that way, it just seems a little &quot;too perfect&quot; and I believe the entries were either heavily edited or parts added in for the book.  I think this book could be very helpful to younger gymnasts though, and I suspect Shannon wrote it for that very purpose and not to just tell people about her life. While I don't think the autobiographical stuff is truly worth reading, the statements she makes about time management etc., would definately be helpful to any young person looking for a way to be able to balance any activity they do along with school and family. After all, she's managed to balance a great challenge, going to school and being a world class Olympic athlete at the same time, and care a great deal about both. I don't put much of a criticism on Shannon for pretty much tooting her own horn in the book, it's hers, she should be able to talk about getting good grades as well as being a great athlete as much as she wants. Every athlete/politican/regular person who's ever written an autobiography does the same thing, in some ways at least. By doing so I believe it gives a better background into her message to young athletes about time management etc., being necessary things to do if you truly want to succeed at more than one thing at a time that require as much effort as school and being a world class gymnast. Shannon and her co author seem to both realize that it's not enough for her to write that her system works, but she's also got to show young athletes that it works, and the proof is in those grades and Olympic medals. Just writing, &quot;My system works, use it&quot; won't sell very far with young people.  However, if you want to read a truly good book about Shannon the person and not just what's really a &quot;motivational&quot; book, I'd recommend Shannon's mother's book over this one.	2000-12-20
US	51880834	R2G0VK17AB0K31	0060995068	183009402	Ordinary Men: Reserve Police Battalion 101 and the Final Solution in Poland	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Incredible work	Christopher Browning has written one of the most important, well researched and written books on the Holocaust and WW II. Browning has a unique gift in that he is an extremely accomplished academic historian that does exhaustive research but also has the gift of making it extremely readable.  Browning richly documents the beginnings of the killings in Poland and every killing operation by Police Battalion 101 there after. He also doesn't get caught up in the &quot;numbers&quot; game, so often the sheer numbers of killings can overwhelm a reader and they lose their meaning and focus that each one of those deaths was a human life, with a family and friends. Browning exhaustively documents the numbers killed, but does it in such a way that I believe a reader doesn't &quot;lose themselves&quot; in the numbers.  Finally, Browning definately accomplishes his goal of proving that each man of Police Battalion 101 was &quot;just like us&quot; and not some evil abberation of nature. He shows the feelings of the men about each killing operation they are involved in and how some of the men refused to participate, correctly believing the whole operation evil. Browning shows the lengths that many of the men, unwilling to back out, went to to be able to block out what they did, using alcohol as their primary means of escape. They knew what they were doing was evil, they just refused to stop.  Even the photograps provided tell a story in themselves, in one of them several members of the battalion are facing the camera, one of them actually has a smile on his face as they're driving Jews off to be killed. For those interested in the beginnings of  the &quot;Final Solution&quot; this book is a great place to start, not that overreaching, under documented, badly written unscholarly piece of trash written by Daniel Goldhagen. Additionally, Browning has a new afterward in his book as a response to Goldhagen, it's an education in itself.	2000-11-26
