US	51896565	R30IBEBLAP63YF	0968772501	634914874	A Long Way to Go for A Date	Books	4	10	16	N	N	An Exciting Read	Whatever people feel about Henry Makow and this book, one thing's for certain, it's a pretty startling read, especially towards the end. But not strictly entertainment, Makow tells all in his account of courting and marrying a provincial Filipina, and then some. Makow now admits he was not as mature when he courted this lady as he is now, and so you may read this book with red flags constantly popping up in your mind (as I did). But that's what makes it so engaging- it is written with complete honesty, for where Makow's mind was then. The end commentary regarding feminism is a real eye-opener, and in itself is worth purchasing this book. <br />One of the reviewers below has some strong invective against Makow, stating: 'Bless her heart, our heroine has a few shreds of self-esteem in spite of her impoverished background (maybe from those family values the author keeps praising but hypocritcally ignores by marrying a child). Consequently, she gives Makow a run for his money...' <br />I would just like to posit that what this reviewer is calling 'self-esteem' is behavior that is just as immature as Makow's was, and that by stating that Cecilia gave him 'a run for his money' this reviewer is essentially lending credibility to Makow's claim that he was unfairly taken advantage of by this young woman. Just food for thought. Buy this book and read it, and judge for yourself. It will blow your mind!	2003-05-27
US	51896565	RH5667K7PBY47	0385059418	627065254	The Iliad	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Stunning	Dr. Fitzgerald's translation of Homer's 'Iliad' is, in short, stunning. This myth-like, ten dayaccount of the onset of the Trojan War is mind-boggling. Like Victor Hugo, Homer makes his characters larger-than-life, and imbues the story with divine intervention from none other than the Greek Gods and Goddesses. Fitzgerlad's translation is concise while maintaining the poetic flow of the original narrative. I suggest reading his introduction both before and after the main story. When you read it after reading the main text, it will be all that more interesting and relevant, and serves as a bit of a refresher regarding what you have just read. While 'The Odyssey' strikes me as more engaging, due to its quicker pace and more fantastical plot, 'The Iliad' is just as readable, for it is a proud story of proud men, women, and Gods, and will leave you calling out for Zeus to help you win your next important life battle.	2003-05-27
US	51896565	R1L2CNI4GRFRN6	0781806429	998034331	English-Ilocano Dictionary & Phrasebook	Books	2	4	13	N	N	Over-Rated	This book is over-rated, and I'll explain why. The book is marketed on its title as an Ilocano-English/English-Ilocano Dictionary and Phrasebook. This is complete false advertising. This book is written for English speakers who want to learn Ilocano, and Ilocano words, not the other way around. I bought this book for my Ilocano-speaking girlfriend so she could better look up Ilocano words and find their English equivalents, and learn, in Ilocano, more about English, but, as this book is written one-sidedly in English for English speakers, it is of little use to her. It's a major flaw, this false advertising of Ilocano-English/English Ilocano, because when you say a dictionary or phrasebook is formatted in such a way, that is supposed to mean that the first half of the text gives an Ilocano word or term, then its English equivalent, then the second half of the book would give an English word or term, then its Ilocano equivalent. That is THEEE purpose of ANY foreign language dictionary, such as English/French - French/English. It would be written for BOTH French speakers and English speakers, not one or the other. <br />This book is almost useless for my Ilocano-speaking girlfriend to learn English with. I feel like I have been ripped off, and am rather embarassed for giving to her. She's almost offended, for she can't read a thing of it! How the heck is she supposed to look up a word in Ilocano to find its English equivalent when you firstly and only reference words in English????!!!! Mr. Rubino- you need to change the title of this book to simply: \\"Learn Ilocano\\".	2003-05-14
US	51896565	RCAM85HSWPZ80	0918226333	282784978	Kirsch's Handbook of Publishing Law: For Authors, Publishers, Editors and Agents	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Essential Tool for the New and Growing Writer	Are you about to finish writing a book? Are you an editor, agent, publisher, or even rookie lawyer in publishing? If so, or even if you are considering publishing something- anything, really- than this book is an essential tool/workbook in navigating the potentially dangerous/potentially treasure-filled waters of the printed word industry. Do not sign any book contract- no matter how good it 'sounds'- without first reading this book. Do not quote another source in your material without understanding the possible copyright consequences as explained in this book. Do not sign on with an agent or collaborator without first studying this book. I have seen too many musicians get screwed in boilerplate recording contracts and now that I have moved into writing I am very thankful that I have found and read this book- as I do not want to be the next victim of the 'small print' of a powerful publisher or by a indemnity lawsuit due to any negligence on my part. <br />What Kirsch does in this publication is go through a book contract step-by-step, clause-by-clause, he 'reads between the lines' for us, he dissects the main deal points in a negotiation and summarizes the critical areas to pay attention to; he hems out publishing law as it applies to writing your book, selling your story to a publisher, and reaping your rewards without incurring a hefty lawsuit. This book is very-well formatted in a visual sense, is user-friendly, even for the publishing law novice, yet it teaches its concepts at a fairly advanced level. What more could you want?	2003-02-03
US	51896565	R3M83UNQMOM0Q7	0804721815	689007788	Journal of a Voyage with Bering, 1741-1742	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Captain-Commander Vitus Bering Was BAD!!!	'Journal of a Voyage With Bering 1741-1742' is very impressive because it is an as-close-to and an as-smooth-as possible translation of Steller's original journal of his 'epic' journey with Captain-Commander Vitus Bering from the Kamchtaka peninsula to the Aleutians, Alaska, and their intense voyage back through a very hazardous winter (ultimately the vessel was shipwrecked on Bering Island, where the Captain met his untimely fate...). In reading this book you can sense just how ominous that region was for first-time explorers (and still is!), and the fear engendered by such an awesome unknown region is evident in many of the crewmen's comments (and ends...). Steller himself is quite the opposite- very steadfast in the journey, and very focused on his work- what the expedition worked hard for ten years to prepare for- to study the area and peoples and flora and fauna etc. beyond the 60th parallel NE of Russia. <BR>I gave this account 4 stars instead of 5 because the introduction- while very scholarly and interesting- might be too pedantic at times. One buys this book to first and foremost read Steller's account of the voyage - not to read about all the minutae details of the man's various capacities prior to the expedition. Stating he was a masterful botanist, biologist, marine biologist, medic, etc. might have been enough... <BR>The other problem I have with this book is Steller himself, who more often than not holds gripes against his crew and the Captain- and does not restrain himself from making this known in his writing. The problem is, is that often I feel the Captain's wariness is justified, while Steller would rather just go off and study plants and the indigenes, irrespective (oblivious?) of the dangers of the region and the timeframe before the onset of winter. The point is, for anyone who has navigated by ship the Aleutian waters even in our modern era - those waters are some of the most, if not THEE most dangerous waters in the world- and Steller, whileat times making good and prudent navigational decisions (which, by the way, were often ignored by Captain Bering), at other times just wanted to go around and collect plants and artifacts when the rest of the crew and the Captain rightly wanted to lift anchor- and often waited just for Steller to return to the ship for this very purpose. Steller just put the entire crew in undue danger on more than one occasion.<BR>Overall, though, this is a fascinating account of the very earliest Aleutians Islands voyage by 'Europeans.' Read and judge for yourself who was making the best calls. Sometimes it was Steller- but at other times, the Captain's prudence was very justified.	2002-10-16
US	51896565	R2YUDLIA01WIMF	0804721815	689007788	Journal of a Voyage with Bering, 1741-1742	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Very Impressive + A Scholarly Intro	'Journal of a Voyage With Bering 1741-1742' is very impressive because it is an as-close-to and an as-smooth-as possible translation of Steller's original journal of his 'epic' journey with Captian-Commander Bering from the Kamchta peninsula to the Aleutians, Alaska, and their intense voyage back through a hazardous winter (ultimately the vessel was shipwrecked on Bering Island, where the Captain met his untimely fate...). In reading this book you can sense just how ominous that region was for first-time explorers (and still is!), and the fear engendered by such an awesome unknown region is evident in many of the crewmen's comments. Steller himself is quite the opposite- and very focused on his work- what they worked hard for ten years to do- to study the area and peoples and flora and fauna etc. beyond the 60th parallel NE of Russia. <br />I gave this account 4 stars instead of 5 because the introduction- while very scholarly and interesting- might be too much at times. One buys this book to read Steller's account of the voyage first and foremost- not to read about all the details of the man's various capacities. Stating he was a masterful botanist, biologist, marine biologist, medic, etc. might have been enough... <br />The other problem I have with this book is Steller himself, who more often than not holds gripes against his crew and the Captain- and does not restrain himself from making this known. The problem is, is that often I feel the Captain's wariness is justified, while Steller would rather just go off and study plants and the indigenes, irrespective (oblivious?) of the dangers of the region and the timeframe before the onset of winter. The point is, for anyone who has navigated by ship the Aleutian waters even in our modern era- is that those waters are some of the most, if noit THEE most dangerous waters in the world- and Steller, while at times making good and prudent navigational decisions (which, by the way, were often ignored by Captain Bering), atother times he just wanted to go around and collect plants and artifacts when the rest of the crew and the Captain rightly wanted to lift anchor- and often waited just for Steller to return to the ship for this very purpose.<br />Overall, it's a fascinating account of the very earliest Aleutians voyage by 'Europeans.' Read and judge for yourself who was making the best calls. Sometimes it was Steller- but at other times, the Cpatain's prudence was very justified.	2002-10-08
US	51896565	R5BC1Y6AF68EJ	0066211697	990970208	Bonjour Tristesse	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Subtly Enchanting	Francoise Sagan is a brilliant French writer, who here has written an intriguing novel about a young lady's 'coming-of-age' while on holiday by the sea. What I appreciate about Sagan's works most of all is her style. She writes very subtly, almost tenderly at times, but what comes out of these impressions is incredible clarity into the inner human workings and spirit. She deals with huge and incredibly moving emotional matters and life-changing experiences with such grace. Perhaps only French writers writing in French can do this (but this English translation maintains some of the original affect). It's like the hidden waters of the subconscious are feeding Sagan's stories, and especially 'Bonjour Tristesse' with eternal messages about life, love, fear, uncertainty, and Destiny. The parvenu paramour in 'Bonjour Tristesse' finds love without becoming jaded by the experience. Yet, she leaves us with elegiac afterthoughts. This is just brilliant literature.	2002-09-13
US	51896565	R16ZOM35TBRC6E	0066211697	990970208	Bonjour Tristesse	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Innocence Sidelined	Francoise Sagan is a brilliant French writer, who here has written an intriguing novel about a young lady's 'coming-of-age' while on Holiday by the sea. What I appreciate about Sagan's works most of all is her style. She writes very subtly, almost tenderly at times, but what comes out of these impressions is incredible clarity into the inner human workings ans spirit. She deals with huge and incredibly moving emotional matters and life-changing experiences with the grace of an unassuming, yet very beautiful bouquet. Perhaps only French writers writing in French can do this (but this English translation maintains some of the original affect). It's like the hidden waters of the subconscious are feeding Sagan's stories, and especially 'Bonjour Tristesse' with eternal messages about life, love, fear, uncertainty, and Destiny. The parvenu paramour in 'Bonjour Tristesse' finds love without becoming jaded by the experience. Yet, she leaves us with elegaic afterthoughts. This is just brilliant literature.	2002-09-06
US	51896565	R2F2XF5JHPUN9Y	0395774497	574644458	The Challenge of Democracy: Government in America : Brief Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent 101 Survey	This is an excellent 'first look' deeper into American politics, and should be required reading for Poli Sci 101 classes. What separates 'Challenge of Democracy' from most other 'beginner's' political science books is its unabashed but un-partisianed look at the workings of the Amnerican political system from the inside out and the outside in. The title alone suggests that Democracy is not a one way street from the Hill down, but something which needs to be constantly nurtured and protected from going astray. The 'challenge' is also in using our political system as a tool to maintain our freedoms and as a vehicle for change to enable us more freedoms and at the same time greater security. In short, 'The Challenge of Democracy' will get one thinking deeper about the inner-workings and dynamics of the American political system by focusing on a broader spectrum of its use, abuse, and everyday applications.	2002-08-02
US	51896565	R1UXZQ8ZQSSO0W	0877900094	606498195	South Sea Culture of the Abdomen	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great Book	'South Sea Culture of the Abdomen' is a wonderful book about how to keep your abdomen fit and your waistline trim. It finds its logic in the healthy and fit lifestyle of certain South Pacific peoples. Of course some South Seas people are known for their extended waistlines (such as Tongans and Samoans), but there are many other peoples in the South Pacific region who always look so fit and trim because they stay active and work outdoors a lot, amongst other things. But the author of 'South Sea Culture of the Abdomen', the late, great, Paul C. Bragg, takes it one step further- he introduces us to the wonderful realm of a scientifically-shaped and toned abdomen by telling us things we can do everyday to get our abdomens and waistlines on the way to being as fit and trim as that of a Hawaiian Hula dancer! Lets hear it for 'South Seas Culture of the Abdomen'! Hip Hip Hooray! Hip Hip Hooray!	2002-08-01
US	51896565	R1IXPMRR6LL8A7	1565633717	966682114	Eusebius' Ecclesiastical History: Complete and Unabridged	Books	5	69	78	N	N	A Stunning Chronicle of Early Christianity	Eusebius' 'Ecclesiastical History', also known as Eusebius' 'Early Church Recordings', is a true tour de force on the development of the early Christian Church from the second century to the fourth century AD. His account is so striking for a multiplicity of reasons, starting with the fact that the works is a chronicle of people, ideas, and events which filled the deep groove of esoteric challenge left by Jesus the Christ. I find no more convincing evidence of the raw power of Jesus than I do here, for his infleunce in these very early accounts proved to be incredibly fortituous and contagious. In Eusebius' chronicles we are exposed almost first hand to what people were thinking and saying about Christ, and how they were acting, including becoming martyrs, in the wake of his presence. What this means is that Eusebius has preserved for us a non-fictional look into the time directly after Jesus' departure, and in reading all these separate but not conflicting accounts of the early Christian pilgrims we get not only a fundamental understanding of the more immediate influence of Jesus upon the people of the Near East, but of the foundations upon which the Christian Church grew upon- not upon physical churches per se, but upon people whose faith was so unwavering that they were willing to face axes and lions to maintain the religion's message. We thus see how the Christian Church was formed not upon stones and government regulations, but upon persecuted peoples who were so moved by Jesus' message that they sprouted up between the cracks of the cruel fasces of thier era until the wave of religious growth overwhelmed the statecraft authorities.<br />This works takes us as far forward as the aegis of Constantine and the Nicene Council, and no further. The fact that C. F. Cruse has kept true to the original, unabridged language as far as is possible in a translation is refreshing. All too many religious scholars can not keep from injecting their slant or propaganda into theworks they purport to be conveying 'unabridged'. But C. F. Cruse sticks to the facts and to historicity, and has included some additonal information concerning the early martyrs- 'the Martyrs of Palestine', as some refer to them.   <br />It is with chagrin that one must concede that the drama in the New Testament has become so second-nature to our understanding of Christianity that for many the Bible might seem like an old TV re-run. What Eusebius phenomenal 'Ecclesiastical History' does here is make fresh again the grandeur of Christ and his message by showing us new angles in a very historic sense, by following the movemnets and sacrifices of common individuals, and by relating accounts less 'theatrical' and more 'real'. This is, after all, a non-fiction. The seriousness of the works and Eusebius' in-depth reporting is truly stunning in its crucial insight into those incipient days of Christianity.	2002-08-01
US	51896565	R1NMCLLUXZXXOP	0449000265	21222487	Eight Weeks to Optimum Health: A Proven Program for Taking Full Advantage of Your Body's Natural Healing Power	Books	1	22	91	N	N	Please, Step Out of the Sun...	Because your big Santa-Clause booty is blocking the light. So Mr. Weil has sold out to the lucrative health industry, and has a great marketing thing going with the happy go lucky grandaddy image with the big beard and rotund face and all. But please be informed, genral public, that you have firstly bought into image marketing, and then to the authors money-making recommendations. If Mr. Weil told you what you really needed to do to get healthy and stay healthy, 99% of you would be turned off. After all, who likes wheatgrass juice, fasting, and rejuvelac? Do you? Surely we'd rather go on our jolly ole ways down to Safeway and stock up on Weil favorites, such as nutrasweet and soyburgers. <br />You will see how many negative 'did this review help you' counts I get, because the type of people (maybe you, unfortunately) who have been suckered into Mr. Weils diet (and pocket-book) are staunchly afraid of anything that threatens their easy 'health' plan. Please read Ann Wigmore's 'Hippocrates Diet' if you are truly concerned about your health.	2002-07-31
US	51896565	RRLS6IX59J3XU	0385240775	521813859	Bill Graham  Presents: My Life  Inside Rock And Out	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Great, True-Life Account	'My Life Inside Rock and Out' is a very interesting account of the great rock'n'roll impresario Bill Graham, documenting his rough beginnings from the East Coast to San Francisco, where he really settled in to sink his teeth into putting on some amazing shows such as Jimi Hendrix, Jefferson Airplane, the Doors, etc. Bill Graham was perfect for the budding psychedelic rock and blues industry because he had a strong business sense but also a tolerance for the absurd- and you will read more than a few absurd accounts in this book. What Mr. Graham did with BGP, the Fillmore, and the Shoreline, to name but a few, was so enriching to the Bay Area musical community, not to mention he also put on shows in the far reaches of the world. He was an agent/producer before things became so commercialized and calculated, and his tragic death struck a very deep and elegaic chord which still now resonates off the walls of corporate-sanitized America. But I Ratmouse will NEVER forget him.	2002-07-30
US	51896565	R33BAB83OYGHLK	0316769177	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	0	2	N	N	What a Book!	This book is about so much more than baseball, it's not even funny! J.D. Salinger was a real maverick here, writing a story that most of us would never even think of imagining. I am looking forward to watching the SF Giants play the LA Dodgers tonight, but this book really opened my eyes to what it is like to see things over a much greater playing field.	2002-07-26
US	51896565	R7Y5ELZN19BNH	0785201688	788128118	Holy Bible King James Version Study Bible (Burgundy)	Books	4	6	62	N	N	i am ashamed	There are logs in my eyes so big that no God can remove them. I'm sorry Lord. I am just a stupid fool. I am ashamed to be too weak to follow the path of Jesus, and I don't know what to do.I can not be like Jesus, no matter how hard I try. Someone please tell me what to do.	2002-07-24
US	51896565	R1SM3HPY8QF7KF	068483877X	645132523	Zen Guitar	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Inspiring, But I Am Having Trouble Living It	This book seeks to inspire one to practice more and to be more focused on one's music and musical goals. But the problem is that the author tells you to do this, to do that, to watch out for this, but not for that, to think like this, and not like that, to try this, but not that, to be humble, yet at the same time intrepid, etc. ad infinitum. I want so bad to follow a wise path in my music, and the author of 'Zen Guitar' seems to have a lot to offer in that respect- TOO MUCH to offer, actually. I find myself getting so worried and caught up in following the authors many rules, noting his exceptions, avioding his stated pitfalls, and trying to be follow his fine-line, 'one mistake and you're out' path, that I am just going crazy trying to remember it all when I am playing. So I find I am not in zen at all. On the contrary, when trying to follow the authors well-intended advice, I get confused about just what kind of person the author would like for me to be, and I am full of self-doubt when I realize that I can not be as perfect as the author would like for me to be. It's hard enough practicing for a few hours each day. I just can't concentrate on what Philip Toshio Sudo wants me to do all the time, especially when I am playing. So sorry Philip- I know you mean well with 'Zen Guitar', but it's just too hard-line for me.	2002-07-24
US	51896565	R2XMVRI70F1MO2	0915811898	41314959	Way of the Peaceful Warrior: A Book That Changes Lives	Books	3	3	19	N	N	I Wish I could...	This is a very nice book that helps people to become better human beings, I just wish I could correctly follow the 'lessons' this book dibbies out. It's not that I don't have personal discipline, its just that the way the characters act in Dan's book is not condusive to modern living. I mean, I just don't have time to sit on a tire all day to think about how to be a humble person. I have to work 60 + hours a week to support myself in a very troubling economic climate, and when I try to live like Dan Millman would like me to live, it's just really hard being super-healthy, ultra-compassionate, intensely spiritual, super goal-oriented, etc., with all of the other duties I must perform every day. In 'Way of the Peaceful Warrior,' Mr. Millman introduces us to a strange character named 'Socrates', but this character is not the real Socrates from Greek times, but is as strange person who works at a gas station. <br />Now, I sometimes exchange a few words with the people who work at the gas station when I go there, but they never seem to offer me too much advice beyond automotive products and snacks and debit cards and stuff. I mean, they are nice for the most part, and intelligent enough, but I just fear that the sort of people Dan Millman writes about in this book are not real sort of people, so it is not fair for Mr. Millman to put all these demands on us to live like Ghandi when we have problems like terrorist hijackings and a bearish economy to struggle through. I mean, I think I am a good person at heart, but c'mon Dan, what am I supposed to do? I only get about four hours of sleep a night as is. I think I should be reading 'How to Schedule three days in a row off of work in a year' instead of Dan's 'How to run around town looking for enlightenment when you don't need to worry about dealing with the pressures and realities of urban modern life.' Sorry Dan, but we all can't be authors with time to burn this sort of self-improvement stuff.	2002-07-24
US	51896565	R22NE7ROPM1F9G	0864425554	667385746	Lonely Planet Samoa : Independent & American Samoa (3rd Ed)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great Travel Book	This travel book on Samoa is full of information to help one maximize a trip to Somoa. It has some great descriptions of Samoan history and places of interest. I am worried though. I am worried that if ever go to Samoa I will not know how to properly act. The author of this travelogue time and time again warns the reader about Samoan cultural mores which should be followed. But I am afraid I will forget some of them and be a shameful traveler.	2002-07-24
US	51896565	R3BAZ740O1X9O3	0915811332	367937232	Sacred Journey of the Peaceful Warrior	Books	3	13	54	N	N	Sounds Fun. Care to Pay My Bills?	Dan's series of 'self-help' books really mean well, but as 'Sacred Journey of the Peaceful Warrior' shows all to clearly, Mr.Dan Millman, the author, has got things going for him pretty good. I mean, running around the jungles of Hawaii with nothing to do but talk about spirituality and play 'self-improvement' games. Listen Dan, if you want to pay my bills for awhile, maybe I too can be the next Ghandi, but the truth of the matter is that life is brutal when you really are trying to get ahead these days- and I am not talking about in terms of greed, but in terms of making a better life for oneself. Maybe I am just not far enough along as Dan on life's journey, but it seems to me that Dan's philosophy is very myopic and naive, especially now that terrorism lurks on our periphery. Being an American is a strange thing. We all would like to spiritually perfect ourselves like Dan has, yet one look at Africa or the Middle East shows us how superfluous that is. Ninety percent of the world's population makes less than $1 a day and has to slave like hell just to put a few grains of rice and yams on the table, or they will die of starvation. Seriously. Too many people in this world don't even get enough to eat, and as I myself work hard to put dinner on the table everyday, I just think the author of the 'Peaceful Warrior' series lives a cushy existence that only a select elite have spare time, money, and energy for. Therefore, it is not right for him to give his advice to the general public, for very few of us could live as he would like to live without losing our jobs, and the food on the table- basic things that Dan seems to take for granted. What I am saying is this: If you want to have fun, read Dan's books and go to Maui. But if you want reality, keep working hard and studying harder sciences or you will never pull through these challenging and crucial days.	2002-07-24
US	51896565	R10UGYSHCNJZ56	0764113674	901666875	Essentials of English (BARRON'S ESSENTIALS OF ENGLISH)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Great Resource	'Essentials of English' is a great resource book to have on hand should you be uncertain if you are expressing yourself correctly in the written word. It is very concise, and while a bit 'dry', does not waste time in teaching you what you should know about the English language. But I am worried that I won't be able to remember what I am trying to remember from this book. I fear that no matter how hard I try, it is not sinking in and I just can't get it right. So while the book is excellent, I myslef am a failure on many counts.	2002-07-24
US	51896565	R34DN8W6JEUD6S	0911449078	274959940	Surfing Hawaii	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Touching, but not too deep...	Bank Wright's guide to Hawaiian surf spots touches upon some nice areas, and has a few pleasant PC poems, but ultimately falls short of telling it how it really is. How many times do we need to be warned about dangerous reefs and riptides? Maybe he should have just given this warning once at the beginning and left it at that. But his south shore Oahu map is pretty thorough, and in a few other zones he does find (like a bumbler) some good spots. Overall though, he misses more than he finds, and thus 'Surfing Hawaii' is ultimately blind. If comments such as these upset you- let me ask you, where are the islands of Molokai and Lanai? Overlooking surf spots is excusable- as there are many in the Hawaiian Islands, but calling a book 'Surfing Hawaii' and then excluding two out of five ISLANDS? That seems gravely incomplete, does it not? And I know what you are thinking- &quot;Yea well Molokai and Lanai don't have a lot of good spots.&quot; Yeah well from my experiencing scoring on those two islands, there are enough good spots to include in his guide, backwater locals or not. I mean, if Bank is going to hype up places like Tonggs and the east side of Oahu, the least he could do is mention Manele point on Lanai. So I found his poems touching; as for his guide to the waves- not too deep. His 'Surfing California', however, is worth five stars.	2002-05-14
US	51896565	R1YUE3L60M0WGK	0020449313	409334755	The Yearling (50th Anniversary Edition)	Books	1	4	35	N	N	The Bore-ling	I remember when I was in junior high-school I had this 'liberal-minded' teacher named Mr. Lovelace who made my class read this long book. Talk about torture! I remember going home and reading page after boring page of this boy and this deer and the farmlife on the meadow, etc. My teacher made us read this and made us write daily papers on it, and I remember how utterly weak this story was and how hard it was for me to write anything about it that I liked. ... <BR>But now it makes more sense to me why he made his entire 6th grade class read this book: 'The Yearling' reflected his twisted views on life and morality. In 'The Yearling', after the boy befriends a deer, he slaughters it for some convoluted moral reason to save his father. This book is like all those lame LA TV dramas that focus on and almost glorify dysfunctional families and tweaked social problems- it is like that because it insists on focusing on a plot which starts out 'normal' and decent, then ends up morally twisted and tweaked. Worse, it takes place on a backwater farm and is just plain long and boring. I could care less about this little boy petting his deer in the golden meadow of banal town, USA, only to succumb to some lame and twisted idea that by slaughtering his new found animal friend his poor sick papa will live. ...	2002-04-29
US	51896565	RC2I8AYXNNGU5	1582341354	930586325	The Flaneur: A Stroll Through the Paradoxes of Paris	Books	3	6	18	N	N	Paris Flambe	'Le Flaneur' leaves a dry aftertaste like an ill-prepared 'Paris Flambe'- that is to say, after all of Edmund White's rambling, both through Paris and through this novelette, he has overcooked the city of light to flavorlessness. The irony of this charge is that Edmund White has labored to enliven Paris with buttery richness by delving into 'off-the-beaten-path' places and elaborating on the lesser known, 'alternative' histories and personas the city has hosted. But Mr. White's mix is just too watery. I know that he has stated that his novelette is supposed to be without real direction other than observing Paris and elements of its history, but in fact his observations are too one-sided, for he focuses on things like homosexuals and drag queens and stuff. Its just watery, and lacks backbone. Paris is far more than these libertine forays into strange pleasures. I think Mr. White is too hung up on the pleasnatries and funkyness of a city which equally prides itself on gravity of thought and formality of action- these later aspects he entirely overlooks. Where's the balanced purview?	2002-04-25
US	51896565	R3S00B1XVV8BT3	0312122705	820784257	Chirac's Challenge: Liberalization, Europeanization and Malaise in France	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting	This is an interesting book on France's current president- Chirac. As he now runs against Le Pen, we must listen to his words with renewed concern. Chirac may have a shady past, but so is the history of French politics from Danton on down to Boulanger. And at least Chirac is more moderate than Le Pen and Robespierre. 'Camarades,' Chirac says, 'Camarades, compatriotes, we must vote for us all, for La France'. <br />This book is interesting in that is gives us an understading of Chirac's persona, policies, and the great challenges he faces today. It is just slightly outdated, for since its release hints of scandal have arisen in Chirac's tenure as president.<br />'Camarades,' Chirac says- and although he may lack the fiery stage presence of Le Pen, his cool and measured tone bespeaks of a more Gaullist nature.	2002-04-25
US	51896565	R2NY8L3O18JSLL	0764104896	992740389	Barron's Guide to Military Careers	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Direct!	I Ratmouse hereby endorse this book to anyone considering joining the military. Donald B. Hutton does an excellent job in outlining the various paths available to the prospective conscript (including the US Coast Guard- which otherwise is difficult to find detailed information about). He explains the options available for those considering the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines (and Coast Guard), the ROTC program, and outlines specific careers and skills to be attained in the United States Armed Services. The nuggets of information found in this easy-to-read, well-diagramed book can make all the difference in one's specialized future as a proud member of the world's most powerful security branch and peacekeeping body- the Unites States Armed Forces.<br />While some Americans may scoff at the notion of joining the military, and will even criticize the efforts of young men and women who daily risk their lives to serve their country- do not let the sheltered and small-minded ignoramuses deter your will. When joining the Armed Services, you are first and foremost protecting the United States Constitution and our democratic way of life. Sadly, there will always be people who take our liberties for granted, and take for granted the courage and sacrifices our soldiers have made, and continue to make, for the greater good of our country. You are not fighting solely for ivory tower liberals who do not care about you. You are fighting for the higher principles of democracy, civility, national security, and freedom. This book will get you started on that just and noble path.	2002-04-23
US	51896565	R3RO89UTGHD79Y	1589632354	307715420	Cast Up by the Sea	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very Impressive	Hugo's hidden novel - 'Cast Up By the Sea' - is in line with his 'Toilers of the Sea', provids an extremely intriguing, unpredictable story, more of his masterful prose, and the delectation of a coastal purview.	2002-04-18
US	51896565	RO642NVKRJN4I	081182652X	283078171	Maverick's: The Story of Big-Wave Surfing	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Impressive , But Already Outdated	A very well written and produced coffee-table quality book on Nor Cal's most hyped big wave break. Rest assured that Matt Warshaw speaks from the heart when he describes the history, the characters, the swells and the waves that have converged at that awe-inspiring break outside Pillar Point. Mr. Warshaw is perhaps the greatest surf historian of all time, and before you question that statement, just wait for his upcoming release 'The Encyclopaedia of Surfing' to make the call. <br />This is mostly pre-tow era Mav's, and so naturally is already quite out-dated. But looking through the viewpoint of paddle-in only is still interesting for its historic relevance, and out-right machismo.<br />As impressive as this book is, I hesitate to give it five stars because, while it does capture many historic moments at Mav's, it is without the newer paradigms of Mav's. Warshaw did an excellent job chronicling an era of Mav's. But now, on many days thanks to tow-in, people are surfing the place quite different than what we see in this book. The Year of the Drag-In changed everything, and so did Nov. 20-21, 2001. I'd be delighted to see Matt do a follow-up. <br />Big wave surfers and Mark Sponsler take note. One of the reasons the Thanksgiving swell of 2001 was so huge was because the storm which produced it came quite close to California and covered a large swath of area with multivalent storm phenomena twisting within it- such storms are not uncommon far up in the Gulf of Alaska, or forming off of Russia and jumping over the Aleutians, tearing through the Bearing Sea. While the 100 foot wave may come to Maverick's once a year, or perhaps only once every few years or decade, it must be noted that in Alaska and especially the Aleutian Islands, these closer-range, huge and more direct storms and swells are a COMMON yearly occurence. Why do so many fishing boats disappear up there? Why do so many of the Aleutian Islands have surf erosion extending 300 feet up their lichen-green facades? Because the surf there gets truly epoch-making giant on a consistent basis! And many of the islands have plenty of lowlands, points, reefs, and bay entrances for serious big-wave set-up potential (Just ask Doc Renneker or Jeff Clark). Factors against the region are many: difficult access, colder temps and outright hazardous seas even for boats. But the scenario can also be mind blowing perfect- giant surf with offshore winds and rideable set-ups. The Aleutains are America's (and the surfing world's) forgotten isles. I know the Mav's crew has their hands full at Half Moon Bay, but if they ever get the growl for adventure to seek another 100 foot wave, I highly recommend looking more seriously at the Aleutains- our own Aleut Hawaii. With the right equipment and arranged lodgings, and with both air and overland transportation (all of this is really not a problem for some islands and areas), and with a few weeks to a month window, perhaps in October and November, I do believe multiple Mavericks await beyond the 50th parellel! But for now, hats off to Matt Warshaw, Daniel Duane, and the whole Mav's crew! You remake surfing history on a yearly basis! Be sure to visit me on the Rat Islands! You can stay in my sink hole!	2001-11-30
US	51896565	R18WCW7SVIHK1I	0811213595	788241687	Colonel Chabert	Books	5	17	18	N	N	An Excellent Translation of a Masterful Story!	Carol Cosman's translation of Balzac's French 'Colonel Chabert' into the English has been very effective here- she does not input her own interpretations and seems to have a good handle on Balzac's natural, concise wording style.<br />The story itself is fascinating. In a nutshell, it focuses on a military man who is essentially erased from society, and the tribulations and insights he has from this 'non-existant' state as he tries to re-establish himself. Not only is this a witty and profound social commentary, but an entertaining twist which just keeps twisting. <br />In reading other's reviews of this short masterpiece, it seems as if many people have missed the meaning of the finale. While it is indeed a very enigmatic ending, it is not as lugubrious or fatalistic as most believe. What happens is that Colonel Chabert, in essentially having his old identity annihilated, becomes enlighted. In the ultimate destruction of his ego he becomes free. This is the magic finale which Balzac labors so hard, and so majestically, to set up in the plot.<br />This tome is very impressive, and relatively short (just over 100 pages) for those new to Balzac who want a nice, piquant appetizer. Balzac is one of the most brilliant French fiction writers of all time! He is a giant, and in 'Colonel Chabert', he weaves another illustrious stitch into his tapestry the Comedie Humaine.	2001-11-28
US	51896565	R3E0E56Y0JECX	0882401696	189296989	Islands of the Seals: The Pribilofs (Alaska Geographic)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Do You Know Where the Pribilofs Are?	Do You Know Where the Pribilofs Are?<br />If you don't, then you should! The Pribilof Islands are two small isles in the Bearing Sea. They are known as the Islands of the Seals because of the large population of seals which congregate there. Many parts of the Island are wildlife sanctuaries for seals. But a modern Western/Aleut community thrives (relatively speaking) in these Islands roughly halway between Alaska and Russia. <br />For years these islands were used as dumping areas for furtive captains who would abandon oil barrels- mostly empty- and other industrial container garbage when nobody was looking. Fortunately recent years have seen far more stringent monitoring of the environment and the beginnings of very effective clean-up efforts.<br />But while the Pribilofs have their masses of seals and has a grim history of this ugly pollution, it is entering the 21st century as a cleaner, more cherished area with a robust local community who pride themselves on their special islands and their clean-up efforts. And these islands are very special indeed... <br />In this unique Alaska Geographic release one can see many pictures and read about the beautiful coastal boroughs and abundant sea life of the Pribilofs. While most people get on a plane and fly off to some impossible to spell foreign region for adventure travel, the Aleutian Islands and the Pribilofs continue to exist mostly off the beaten path, and are some of the most exotic, diverse, and richly rewarding islands imaginable, right here in the USA. It's just a matter of perspective and where you look. <br />This book is usually available through Amazon, but may take a few weeks to ship. If you like seals or unusual coastal areas, take a look! <br />And for those of you who surf... here's another zone with some potential. If you look at the excellent maps of the islands you'll find in this book, you will see a great deal of potential for decent conditions on any swell, tide, and wind. If its onshore on one side of the island, a few minutes later you can find yourself in offshore conditions on the other side. Road access and lodging looks to be quite available! There is a picture or two of possible surf zones! But this is rugged territory dominated by the seals! Just look at the cover- did you think that man invented surfing... Ha! (*The cover pictures a number of seals frolicking about in a glassy green left-hander!)	2001-11-27
US	51896565	R3NM8YYISBQBXO	0882401750	232311253	13: Where Mountains Meet the Sea (Alaska Geographic)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Book to Dream With	Where Mountains Meet the Sea : Alaskas Gulf Coast, No. 1 is a very impressive presentation of Alaska's rugged and wild west coast and some of Alaska's more placid bay communities. There are some pictures here, many taken by low-flying aircraft, which allow one a rare, but very clear and close-up glimpse of some of these ends-of-the-earth regions. There is abundant text regarding specific areas, such as the Prince William Sound, Sitka, Kodiak, and an incredible section on Yakutat. And no corners are cut when focusing in on the people of the region; There are some great early and more recent pictures and literature concerning the Aleut, Russian and American traders, trappers, fishermen, and natives of the past and present (but keep in mind this book was released in the mid-eighties, I believe, so is only current as of fifteen or so years ago).<br />The photographs of the islands really will take you there- to those beautiful, fresh air natural places far off in another realm. And if you happen to be a surfer, there is enough in this book to stir the imagination. There are some intriguing photos of the beach areas at Yakutat- one which shows the left point break firing off in the distance. I'd liek to explore Icy Bay and along the Mt. St. Elias perimeter. But keep in mind this is surfing only for the most hardcore: Massive tides which flow in an out of flood-basins while great plains of quicksand sprawl out across tidal zones; Huge Aleutian swells and tsunamis are in the equation, as is ice-cold water, aggressive bears, aggressive prehistoric-looking sharks and salmon sharks that can swim 60 MPH. There are isolated coasts in the path of brutal storms and impossibly strong currents. Still, if one knows the right season and where to look, one may find epic, uncrowded surf (point, beach, reef, and bay-openings) in a breathtaking environment and the possibilty of finding more 100 foot waves. There are multiple Maverick's set-ups up there, and in the direct line of our biggest winter swells! Its truly a new frontier.	2001-11-27
US	51896565	R3N3XSHHX2LUPZ	0882400576	153681148	Yakutat, the turbulent crescent (Alaska geographic)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Breathtaking	An amazing, almost impossible to find, out-of-print National Geographic Alaska release- Yakutat: The Turbulent Crescent is a detailed insight into a fascinating corner of the world. Here, majestic glacial flows create titanic gorge walls; here white peaks of Mount St. Elias rise thousands of feet over the coast; Here, the little pine-nestled borough of Yakutat sits on the water's edge in view of it all. <br />Yakutat: The Turbulent Crescent studies the geological features of Yakutat and its history and pre-history. There are many nice, large photos- some full-bleed. The huge 1899 Yakutat Earthquake is explored- an earthquake which rose the sea level fifteen feet, caused three monstrous (60- 200 feet) tsunamis to roll into the bay at five minute intervals, and caused whirlpools to form which sucked down towering pines like toothpicks in a bathtub drain&gt; This earthquake was witnessed first-hand by both the white settlers and the native Indians. <br />And I've just got to note: Yakutat has some of the most reliable surf in all of Alaska. Some  waves can be seen in the background of a few of the photos. I like to think of this as- Yakutat: The Tubular Coast.	2001-11-27
US	51896565	R18HB7VKYZWOOS	0940368323	525151542	The Qur'an: Text, Translation & Commentary (English and Arabic Edition)	Books	5	10	22	N	N	A Fine Translation - Please See My Issues Below	Here is a fine translation of the Muslim's Holy Book presented by Abdullah Yusuf Ali. But in light of the recent terrorist attacks, endorsed by Bin Laden under the supposed Aegis of Allah, how are we to interpret the following phrases: <br />The Accessions<br />[8.12] When your Lord revealed to the angels: I am with you, therefore make firm those who believe. I will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve. Therefore strike off their heads and strike off every fingertip of them.<br />[8.14] This-- taste it, and (know) that for the unbelievers is the chastisement of fire.<br />[8.50] And had you seen when the angels will cause to die those who disbelieve, smiting their faces and their backs, and (saying): Taste the punishment of burning<br />The Dinner Table<br />The Immunity<br />[9.30] And the Jews say: Uzair is the son of Allah; and the Christians say: The Messiah is the son of Allah; these are the words of their mouths; they imitate the saying of those who disbelieved before; may Allah destroy them; how they are turned away!<br />While the Koran and Islam is far more rich and balanced than these particular excerpts, how do we reconcile these heated verses of Scripture with the notion of peace? Please consider this...<br />In Islam, the dagger was congenital with the Koran. This was a religion born in warfare, and the people in the region where it was born have, more or less, been fighting ever since. Islam resonates deeply with the war-bred. It is a religion born with a 'fight to survive' clause for persecuted peoples, thus we may find in it words as strong as these. If a 'turn the other cheek' ethos permeated the Middle East for the past 2000 years, the Arabs might have all been wiped out long ago... <br />Also please consider that every relgion can be, and is meant to also be, taken symbolically. Sufism, the mystical branch of Islam, concentrates on this. Might I recommend some Sufi interpretations of the Koran, or some Sufi texts? The hostile versesfrom the Koran which I have presented above can be interpreted purely symbolically. <br />I know that acts of terrorism are ethically problematic and morally unjustifiable, but I can see how anger, religion, fear, and militant role-models can convince gullible and (often) downtrodden people to commit such acts in the name of Allah. It is a complex historical problem, not just confined to Islam, that we all need to bring out into the open and try to solve. <br />But Islam, thankfully, is also rich in teachings of peace, and fortunately most Muslims throughout the world take this more peaceable route.	2001-11-13
US	51896565	R1AA0SKPCBL2OB	1570625662	789904450	The Knowing Heart: A Sufi Path of Transformation	Books	4	21	26	N	N	Sufi Wisdom	For all of the Ratmouse's criticisms and scepticism (as I have stated- I am here to collect bad reviews and undermine the human race), I will hand it the humans for one thing- writing and publishing this book. Here we enter a fascinating branch of Islam- the Sufi realm of mysticism where a loving heart and selflessness are guiding principles. In the past I have drawn attention to Islam's general construct, then to the Koran's most hostile verses. Now I would like to complete this look at Islam by recommending this book. The only call to arms someone like Bin Laden might find in this book is the call to open one's arms and accept people of all races, religions, ethnicities and creeds with a loving heart. Author Kabir Helminski has here provided a kind of spiritual Jihad where loving one's neighbors is the meaning of enlightenment and life. But this book is so much more- it takes one through levels of development, like the unpeeling of an onion, until only the ocean of happy compassion remains. Not saying that the RatMouse now has a little halo over his grimy ears, but he certainly now tries to learn from the words of wisdom presented in this majestic tome. Allah, with a loving heart, is great.	2001-11-13
US	51896565	R4KEZZVOIQ2F2	0060916095	811924371	Think on These Things	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Open the Doors of Perception	I Ratmouse endorse this book as an excellent workshop piece to help you open the doors of perception. Krishnamurti, while ultimately guiding the discourses presented here, is essentially trying to destroy the conditioned thoughts and reponses we have inherited since birth. This is crucial in order for us to perceive and to deal with the world as it is in reality. Our blind acceptance of our social indoctrination to the world limits our ability to perceive things as they really are. Instead, we tend to view the world through the filters of our thoughts. But from whence do our thoughts come? Are they truly our own, or are they given to us by conditioning, association, and the media? (...)	2001-11-04
US	51896565	R10AY3ZWVC4R0W	0895292211	355805847	Enzyme Nutrition	Books	5	59	63	N	N	The Facts Behind a Proper Natural Diet	Dr. Howell's 'Enzyme Nutrition' is an excellent look at why it is desirable to include as many fresh, natural, and raw foods into ones diet as possible. He backs up his findings on the nutritive, health-giving, and cancer-fighting elements of living foods with years of research, statistics, and even labarotary animal cases. While the use of labaratory animals for research is ethically problematic- the statistics Dr. Howell has gained from them are a great boon to this book, his position, and the health enthusiast community. <br />For all the cynics who think a raw food diet is a silly fad, they might have difficulty arguing the facts present in this book. For those who follow a diet such as the Hippocrates Diet, or who realize the value of adding fresh and uncooked or minimally-cooked foods to their meals, this book will be a valuable source of information as to precisely why, in a scientific sense, your endeavor to eat living foods is not only justifiable, but very wise. <br />There's more to life than the foods you eat, but there's not much more to death than the foods you eat. Most people dig their own graves with their knives and forks. By understanding both the harmful and healthful qualities of various foods and how they are prepared, one can greatly increase once chances of survival through the 21st century. Of course, first one has to avoid getting hit by a car or flying airplanes.	2001-09-26
US	51896565	R3FDPAKHYHM2DJ	0684842971	177682081	Varieties of Religious Experience	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Stunning Survey of Mystical Experiences	William James writes in a refined, almost Elizabethean style, which is very effective in isolating and postulating the cases of religious and mystical experiences outlined here. Besides James' objective approach to the study, I also appreciate the range of cases studied. From the greatest of Christian mystics to the strangest of self-mortificationists, the characters, experiences and events James squeezes out of history provide an informative, astounding, and entertaining look at the world of religious experiences (often referred to as 'mystical experiences'). And perhaps most importantly, he does this without pandering to his readership nor pushing his beliefs onto others. Ultimately, as a psychologist, he seems far more concerned with objectively studying the cases of individual's experiences, rather than using his findings to proselytize in any way, shape or form. Recommended for those new to the study of 'non-ordinary' religious experiences, mystical phenomenon, and perhaps psychology. But this is no joke or quack fad. It is a study based on hard research. William James was a highly respected professional in circles of literati, psychology, and scholasticism.	2001-09-25
US	51896565	R5JIMFD1C0X6P	0062737384	509103202	The World's Most Dangerous Places	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The World's Most Daunting Pizza	In a nutshell, or rather a bombshell, RYP and his savvy crew have given us an updated recipe from the Hot Kitchen...<BR> <BR>We start off with a Tandoori dough, rolled from the rough and tumble boarder between Pakistan and Afghanistan, steeped to tangy perfection in the Khyber Pass, and sprinkled with poppy seeds. Be sure to roll the base in baking powder from Colombia. The tomato sauce actually consists of some imitation tomato found on the ground around Gronzy- poor Howling Wolf (or poor Ruskies?). Some tender meat chunks from outlying Algiers are tossed on top, along with some funky American cheeze- which is actually Kareoke music from Zamboanga. For herbs and spices there is qhat from Mog, bugs from Bujumbura, and ganga from Liberia. The dish is placed in the oven around Ereteria, and cooked at great heat, except when its raining. Share it with your best buds from the GIA, PKK, CIA, even the OAS. Its a sure hit. The World's Most Daunting Pizza, or simply DP for Daunting Pizza. The recipe is outlined in this book. Bon appetit! And for all you serious international relations types- this should prove filling enough.	2001-09-24
US	51896565	R2LIUGMZ76XYTQ	0446671002	58848637	The Celestine Prophecy: An Adventure	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Y'all Need to Wake Up from La La Land	This drum-circle, hippy-dippy, New Age, 'magic-happens', 'things happen for a reason', comfortable yuppy book makes me queasy with its simplistic ideas about love, enlightenment and destiny. Furthermore, it reads like an elementary-school book. I kept waiting for the line 'Mary had a little lamb...' Do people really fall for this domesticated dribble about 'what really goes on' when people interact? Do people really believe that the world is just a place where comfortable Americans can go on magical quests to find the secrets of self-realization and universal love? I hate to break the news to you, but we are not all one, we are not the world, and consumer Anglo America lives in a bubble of comfort and ignorance as fragile as the postulates intimated in this dribble of a story. By following the author's realizations, you will be more lost than ever.<br /> I recommend instead Robert Young Pelton's \\"The World's Most Dangerous Places\\" as a healthy antidote to this fantasy tome. Think positive yes. But don't throw away your capacity to reason in a rational manner. And please don't just rely on faith and magical little secrets to help bring about a better world. Its going to take a bit more sacrifice on our part than that. When the environmental problem came 'round, the biggest choice we were forced to make was 'Paper or Plastic?' in the Supermarket. Now with the real world of international strife knocking at our back door, its all about waving American Flags. And in our 'spiritual crises' (i.e.- there are a lot of lost souls out there), we read this book and dream that some magic 'not-a-coincidence' meeting or event will change everything in our lives. Put the flag in the paper bag, this book in the plastic, and check me the (...) out of this 'A Boy and His Dog' nightmare! Don't get me wrong- on many marks I'm a huge patriot- I just hate to see so many Americans mislead by books this. We are in a recession and a time or war. You can live by books such as the Celestine Prophecy only if you keep your head buried in the sand.	2001-09-24
US	51896565	R1JWCCNFJIHHIF	1589631986	230463263	Ninety-Three	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Great Read, But Sounds Too Contrived	This is a great read, but certainly not one of Hugo's best. As this was one of the last books he wrote, he took full liberties with how the story unfolds, both in pandering to his fans and in following his whims. As his name was firmly established, he probably figured he could get away with all the outlandishness of Ninety-Three. Thus the storyline sounds too contrived. Hugo's grandess goes overboard, and most every situation is too all-or-nothing extreme. But please note that I have given this tome four stars. Where it does sound contrived, it is still a very entertaining read, and has most of the elements which makes Hugo so great- mysterious character and plot development, fusing disparate scenes into a cohesive equation, and bringing out the details of a bygone French world (here- the great Revolution). For the literary minded, first read Toilers of the Sea, then Les Miserables. For those who are new to grand historical fictions, this tome might be a good place to start; It is relatively short, steeped in drama and therefore an entertainment piece.	2001-08-27
US	51896565	R2MQ87FLWZF050	094202401X	816607066	The Hundredth Monkey	Books	4	11	15	N	N	The 100th Monkey	.... This is a book against the use of nuclear power and, of course, nuclear weapons. It is based upon a phenomenon observed that when a critical amount of monkeys began using a certain tool, that skill was automatically transferred to the rest of the species- even if the other monkeys lived far away and in isolation. It is a controversial thoery of evolution which boarders on the spontaneous. In the book 'The Hundreth Monkey', Ken Keyes applies the theory to humans; in this case, if enough humans decide that nuclear power and nuclear arms are bad, then automatically everyone in the world will come to that same conclusion. Although it sounds like 'wishful thinking', until the Hundreth Monkey phenomenon is disproved, it will hold to its sliver of light. <br />While I agree that nuclear power and nuclear weapons are far too dangerous for us to be tinkering with, I do support space exploration. If the public did not prevent NASA from using nuclear-powered space conveyance, we could be making leaps and strides into the galaxy; The main problem with standard long-distance space travel for humans is that it takes too much rocket-fuel, and carrying it out of our atmosphere becomes an impasse. With nuclear-powered rockets, a space vehicle could be fully powered for many years, making long-distance space travel not just possible, but most probable. ....	2001-04-16
US	51896565	RY8HMIE7U4YQ6	0837174929	747945410	Test De Gaulle and Algeria	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Au Revoir d'Algerie du Papa	C.L. Sulzberger is the best political writer I have yet to read. This non-fiction account is about Charles de Gaulle's re-emergence into power and how he handled the French Algeria crises and that African state's perhaps fated break-up. The book is based on a series of interviews which C.L. Sulzberger had with De Gaulle, as he was somewhat close to that stern and singular leader. It covers a span of about 12 years in just over 200 pages- an incredible accomplishment considering he has pinpointed the important events of causes and effects in that de-colonization. He writes a bit of the secret O.A.S. and the estrangemet felt by the French 4th (+5th) Republican Army, thus giving us insight into the complexities of the matter. Sulzberger does not mince words and has an extremely concise and effective writing style. His handle on political affairs is refreshing, even if it is in regards to events of 40 years ago. You'll finish the book wishing it was longer, for it is aggressively insightful, especially concerning de Gaulle himself, who was  almost a mystical embodiment of France, and up against very difficult realities. Really quite an excellent book. I'm very surprized it is out of print. Then again, Algeria is similarly hors de service.	2001-04-12
US	51896565	R1KP998PHG3TUH	0060959584	949198499	Eating Well for Optimum Health: The Essential Guide to Bringing Health and Pleasure Back to Eating	Books	2	6	21	N	N	Image Marketing for the Masses	What's this all about? A diet rich with white sugar and fried foods for 'optimum health'? This book makes it success not because the diet propounded therein is healthy, but for the following two reasons:<br />1. People are drawn to the smiling, Santa-Clause like face on the cover. This is great marketing. In Andrew Weil, people see the comforting images of an old granddaddy or the robust Santa. The problem is that a healthy, round smile has nothing to do with eating a healthy (in terms of good-for-you) diet. Fats Waller, the 350 pound, hamburger-grubbing, cigar-smoking pianist looked happy too. He died of overconsumption. He was a brilliant pianist, but did not give dietetic 'optimum health' advice.<br />2. Since when was a diet rich in sugar and fried foods healthy? What this book amounts to, besides the marketing success of the jolly plump man on the cover and the catchy (albiet misleading) title, is a diet for those whose willpower is really too weak to make any significant changes. Its an everyman's diet, but really not much of a diet at all. Most of these foods are the regular ole fare found on the shelves of Safeway or in your average restaurant.<br />I'm sure that eating all these foods, in such large portions, makes everybody happy; They certainly make Mr. Weil very happy, and rich. The final analysis, however, is that this should not be called a diet at all, for it has very few parameters. But people like this sort of thing- its easy, and yummy! One needs no personal discipline. Unfortunately, those who adhere to this garbage might also enjoy the sugary ice cream they serve at the hospital when they are laid up beside the author due to poor diets.<br />Ann Wigmore's &quot;Hippocrates Diet&quot; is the real thing. Most people can't handle the discipline, however, so they turn to books like this and the Neanderthal Diet (whose author eats a pound of fried bacon a day!). You who give this book five stars are all so lost, I feel sorry for you.	2001-04-12
US	51896565	RWMN3ACVZKLOA	0915811405	610667700	No Ordinary Moments: A Peaceful Warrior's Guide to Daily Life (Millman, Dan)	Books	5	6	16	N	N	Powerful	I RatMouse am telling you that this is a very powerful book when it comes to 'self-help' books! It has helped me to find my way out of the sewers more than a few times! I RatMouse hereby prescribe this book to anyone who is struggling with themselves (which we all do at one point or another).	2001-04-12
US	51896565	R3NOKHF7P64OKR	0870236733	638947494	When the Eiffel Tower Was New: French Visions of Progress at the Centennial of the Revolution	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Fin de Siecle Poster Art and Good Article	This is an awesome book for those interested in the 1889 Exposition Universelle de Paris. It has a very well-written piece on that time period, the exposition, and the propaganda as came out in the form of poster art and advertisements. The book is wide and has lots of full-color and b&amp;w stills which go along with the text. While a newer release, I consider this book a rare gem in that it focuses on that incredible, bygone era.	2001-04-12
US	51896565	R1TTRPZBDS08F	0830604790	864315796	Understanding Wall Street	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great for Starters and Sojourners Alike	This is a great book on how Wall Street works, both in regards to its general mechanics and trends, as well as specific investment strategies. Its a bit from the old-school days before the rise and fall of NASDAQ, but its principles are time-tested and still apply today. It has some interesting history about Wall Street with some old photographs as well. The book often explains concepts by employing charts and specific examples, which is very helpful. Overall its intimations lean less toward the speculator and more toward the slow-growth investor, but it is essentially 'non-partisan' save for overall strategies and trends. This book is a must for the beginning investor and seasoned (might I say 'weathered') investor alike. Highly recommended.	2001-04-12
US	51896565	R1S24AI9TIJ2VG	0911449027	902681128	Surfing California	Books	4	31	34	N	N	California Dreamin'	Bank Wright traveled up and down the California coast for two years, personally checking the spots, taking photos, and gathering information from locals for this book on surf spots of the Golden State. Its becoming a real gem of spot history with some great photos and spot tide/swell info, and is an excellent book for both those new to surfing in California and for locals who are curious about how their spots are presented. The reasons I am not giving it five stars are because of some minor problems of Nor Cal information which could have serious consequences... <br />He writes of the Nor Cal coast as if its mostly fun and empty surf, but there is rarely, if ever any mention of how sporadic conditions can be, how heavy and often unrideable it often is, and how sharky some of these spots are. Tomales Bay, for example, should have some mention of how sharky it is. I'd hate to see someone from So Cal come up here and see those Uluwatu-like lefts firing off south Tomales Bay headland, paddle out there and most likely get grubbed by a whitey. Many other spots in Nor Cal are way more sharky than he mentions. But then again, as he was just passing through and probably didn't surf most these empty spots, how was he to know? <br />He talks about big combers coming into Nor Cal shores like its an empty Hawaiian dream. Sorry Bank, but when these beach breaks get big, which they usually are, its very, very difficult to make it to the outside, and sometimes impossible. He does have some of the more legitimate heavy-duty spots on the North Coast, such as Harbour Entrance. Bank has respected the spots that deserve to be kept quiet, and that he overlooked spots is all for the better- it keeps the element of exploration and new discovery alive in California surfing. <br />One other thing- I've never seen Pigeon Point breaking right as a big wave break. I've only seen it firing off of a mysto reef way outside the lighthouse, breaking left on that huge Tahitian swell we had a few years back. Pigeon Point is not a wise place to surf anyway- an abolone diver was attacked and killed there by a huge great white shark there less than 10 years ago. And as far as the Potato Patch goes- OK you Cortes Bank and Mav's tow-in crew- here's your new challenge. I have seen it good and clean with two guys out paddling in to big blue shoulders. The tide was medium and it was a big and perfect fall swell with very light offshores from due East. I swear it looked a lot like those Cortes Bank rights that Snips, Mel and Crew scored for the Project Neptune session, but a bit more manageable yet. These waves were so big that they properly scaled to the tankers which passed before them! I even have pictures of that day to prove it. On a good fall it might get good for more than few days. Check it from Deaddies' with binoculars and fling yourself off the cliff while you're ahead!!!	2001-04-11
US	51896565	R1UYEAWRHKXJM4	0486270661	906494135	The Trial and Death of Socrates: Four Dialogues (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	8	12	N	N	A Heavy Price for Socrates, a Light Price for You	While the logic propounded by Socrates in this account has since been successfully refuted as being flawed, it is his moral position which he was willing to die for which underlines the historicity more than the details of the ideas presented. The power of Socrates thus lies in his unabashed search for truth, even at the expense of his own life. What makes this book profound is that it is a non-fiction; The account of Socrates' trial and death as here recorded by Plato will give the reader an idea of what it means to die for a cause which seems right...its moral import is worth more than a million bucks.	2001-03-30
US	51896565	R2KY0JRFKJ90P5	9060773217	8587468	The flight of the eagle,	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The Flight of Dignity	J. Krishnamurti, born a sickly Hindi child, was raised and molded for the position of world guru by the Theosophical society. He did become a physically healthy yound man, and the Order of the Star was formed around him to nurture his big awakening. He gave speeches and had a great following. Then during a huge gathering of 2000 of his devotees, he broke the news to them, which was essentially &quot;I am not your leader. I can not make you enlightened. Only you can do that. Do not follow me for I have no answers for you. You must think through life for yourself.&quot; This turn, what might have been percieved as a let down, was actually great advice and deep wisdom. After that he continued to speak, but always with the same message, which was basically to do away with all conditioning and to search for the truth of reality without the screens of religions, politics, patriotism, gurus, philosophies, etc. He sought to see reality as it was, not as how people dreamed it should be. This book is a small sample of his talks and writings. But there is so much more to the man and his profound mind than this. Since Amazon may not have this one in stock, check out one of his other books. But it must be noted that many of the books of Krishnamurti are biographies. They are interesting, but to get to the core of his ideas, check out HIS writings and talks.	2001-03-30
US	51896565	R2EYQN8HWB5773	0140433627	655343360	Frankenstein: Or the Modern Prometheus	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Mary Shelley = Prodigy	mary Shelley wrote Frankenstein when she was 19- a very mature drama which twists upon the question of whence does life come.<br />The book is Romantic in that it is the story of a creator who turns away from his creation. What would it be like if your creator, your parents or God, hated you and sought to destroy you? Frankenstein's Monster was hated by his creator and could not find a friend because he looked so hideous. This is a powerful, tragic statement.<br />(...)<br />Shelly's writing is very well composed and full of extraordinary intuitions about what it means to be created, and hated.	2001-03-20
US	51896565	R3BHY48AAENLAC	0374525749	627065254	The Odyssey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Flowing, Timeless Epic	&quot;The Odyssey&quot; helps to consolidate Greek myth. Written in a sumptuous and poetic style, it loquaciously stirs at the heart of Ancient Greece; It combinies myth with historicity, and thus exists in the twilight realm of legend where cultures and cosmologies are born. For Greek culture, so prolific and rich, &quot;The Odyssey&quot; can be seen as a sort of Old Testament of Hellenics. When a writer can present fanciful tales with such force that the reader begins to overlook their plausibility, when a mind can capture the essence of a culture as a cohesive, glorious epic- we have &quot;The Odyssey&quot;.<br />This Fitzgerlad version has not overlooked the 2,500 year old approaches and problems in the translation. On the contrary, after volumnious scholarly survey of the history, translations, mythology, language, archaeology and style of &quot;The Odyssey&quot;, Fitzgerlad here presents the most accurately polished edition outside of the Greek language. An enthralling tour de force, &quot;The Odyssey&quot; will be a gem on your bookshelf.	2001-03-14
US	51896565	R3AOTH0M1JQVH	067973869X	903112807	Africa: A Biography of the Continent	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Lasting Flash of the Spirit	John Reader's &quot;Africa: A Biography of a Continent&quot; is a well-researched, informative tour-de-force of the Motherland. Not contented with a short, easy, or simplistic survey of Africa, he starts back, way back with the evolution of Africa and covers an incredible range of time, covering varying aspects of the nation and her people all the way through the evils of the colonizing European missionaries and slave-traders. What is extraordinary is that this is essentially a finished works, not a short book written hastily to capitalize off of African polemics. Reader goes far beyond the subjective grievances which so often limit the African literary purview by presenting us with a hard-earned, well-researched, illustrious non-fiction of Africa. An exceptional job that will show you the vast roots, lands and culture of the Earth's first born glory.	2001-03-14
US	51896565	R1FK5VRRELN5QF	0951927558	673471353	The Stormrider Guide: Europe	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Bible of Surfing Europe	This is the most awesome book on surfing Europe imaginable, covering all the best spots (and then some) from Scotland to Italy, from the Azores to Germany, and everywhere inbetween! Surf in Amsterdam? You betcha! It also includes Morocco. It is full of incredibly professional high-tech, accurate maps, pictures, write-ups, and gauges a variety of conditions for each spot- such as water temp, crowd factor, quality of wave, direction wave breaks, power of wave, ocean (break) bottom, what sort of rubber you'll need, etc. Since you'll notice that Amazon is often out of stock on this, or that it takes '3-5- weeks for delivery', I recommend surfing to Amazon.com's UK site (amazon.com.uk) and ordering directly from them in England- you'll pay a little more for shipping, but they usually have it in stock and you'll be sure to get your copy sooner. This is thee Surf Bible of Europe!	2001-03-09
US	51896565	RLFBW1F5VXTYB	0345318986	344437698	Light	Books	2	1	8	N	N	Lite is Right	&quot;Light&quot; is a look at a day in the life of the celebrated French artist Monet, but..<br />How many ways can you describe the light on the bed, on the sofa on the chair and table? How many words do the Eskimo's have for snow? Here Eva Figgs has far fewer words to describe what she's after, and it shows. <br />Beyond the vocabulary, which I'll admit seems to be employed with a noble effort, the story goes nowhere. However, this is not a flaw of its design, for the story isn't supposed to go anywhere. What really is weak about this book is its misinterpretation of impressionism, an art form that has as much to do with being adventurous as it does to having soft edges. Eva Figgs leaves out the adventure, exploratory aspect of impressionism and leaves us with only a soft and slow dribble. At least George W. Bush's muzzy statements are experimental and make us turn our heads. With &quot;Light&quot; we fall asleep.<br />Besides the redundant vocabulary and the poor attempt at impressionist literature, the third and most striking naivety of this book is its portrayal of Monet himself. What right does Eva have to portray him like she did? This is an outrage! Its as if she knew him and spent intimate moments with him! What this boils down to is a capitalization off of a deceased artist, and a woman who has an axe to grind against men. It a crime because uses her Women's Rights savvy to give Monet and his friends an air of male chauvinism. If we are to give Eva the benefit of the doubt and believe Monet exuded such fearsome power over his family, then we have to feel sorry for the women who sat there silently and put up with him (or maybe they were on the gravy train...). This was, after all, nineteenth century France, not twentieth century Taliban Afghanistan! Did Anaias Nin take this kind of behaviour from men? Hell no! And four hundred years earlier, did Joan of Arc? She told them to shut their mouths! Look Eva Figgs, whatever you want people to feel about men according to your worldview, please do the world a favor and don't taint any more historical figures like you have here attempted with Monet. Fortunately, this book is in fact light.	2001-03-09
US	51896565	RXFZRGLH5EL65	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Not Much To It	As an effective story, &quot;Things Fall Apart&quot; frankly just doesn't work. <br />A friend of mine sent me this book stating &quot;Chinua will take you there.&quot; Where? After 200 pages, even after spending the whole book trying to develop the main character and make the reader feel for him, unfortunately I didn't feel for him like I was wanting too. Its almost like a good script with bad actors. Which takes us to the storyline- potentially potent stuff, especially considering it is based upon the colonization of Africa, but it could have been much more effective. Instead it sounds to me like an angst-ridden tirade, a thinly veiled emotional attack. Unlike Dee Brown's excellent book on the European invasion of America, &quot;Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee&quot; where we could really feel the plight of the indigenes as well as see the crimes of the invaders, in &quot;Things Fall Apart&quot; we are left with only a fleeting shock that doesn't stick because the story dooesn't stick (which in my opinion is a huge loss of an opportunity to tell the bigger story about the ugly conquest of Africa). <br />While this book is an excellent insight into the daily life of an African tribesman, Chinu's angst, which is easily discerned, seems really juvenile to me. Getting angry at the evildoers is a story as human existence, and its getting really, really trite. People kill people in Yugoslavia too, white people. Am I excited about reading the next book about that? Are you?	2001-03-08
US	51896565	R3M3EIZ9YUCFHW	0805017305	820817223	Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West	Books	5	11	14	N	N	How the West Was Lost	This works from Dee Brown is a view of the terrible Nazi-Reich-like nature of the Westward expansion of Europeans through 'the New World', and the toll it took on the people already living there. This book should be a required history book in high school and college American History courses. Dee Brown did a great deal of research and traveled all throughout America to make sure he got the story from both sides- whites and Indians. Sadly, as a white American, reading this makes me realize that I should not be proud of my forefathers, but ashamed. But more importantly, it gives me a vicarious view of what the Indians went through (and continue to struggle with), in the name of manifest destiny.<br />What makes this account unique is that it is very scholarly while being very moving at the same time. As a whole, in a factual, heart-wrenching way Dee Brown has captured the Native American's attempts to survive genocide. When you finish, the title of the book will come back to you in a different way.	2001-03-08
US	51896565	RUXCA68FYEU4C	046508561X	338643958	The Thirteen Petalled Rose: A Discourse On The Essence Of Jewish Existence And Belief	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Into the Heart	The unfolding of the heart of Jewish spirituality, like removing petals from a rose, until the stem remains, a nourishing channel from the powers of life's soil, to be discovered in the sefirot of Yahweh (or, the mystical science of the Kabbalah which lies under the surface of Judiasm like a great anchoring mass under the tip of an iceberg). <br />This is a beautifully written look at thirteen tenants of Jewish spirituality, and how those aspects apply not only on a metaphysical level, but in one's daily life. It is recommended reading for anyone who can appreciate the primal elements of any long-standing philosophy, Jewish or otherwise, or for those who can appreciate literary poeticism. In short, perhaps the rose is the heart, and we only need to remove the petals one by one, to know each, and then to let them go, until only the force of life, viz., God, remains.	2001-03-07
US	51896565	R1NUMXET175M6Q	0934252610	253359298	Sit: Zen Teachings of Master Taisen Deshimaru	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Look of the Buddha	Here, from Taisen Deshimaru, who helped to bring Buddhism to Paris from the Orient, comes a unique teaching of Soto Zen. Philip Coupey, one of his most ardent students and translators, has compiled this book of teachings from Deshimaru's seshins near the Loire Valley in France. Deshimaru had the look of the Buddha when he sat in zazen, and his teachings reflected a deep wisdom and understanding of the cosmos which is in more our bellies, less our minds. <br />John Stevens, currently a Buddhist Monk in Paris, knows Monsieur Coupey and attends and helps with the seshins regularly, even though Deshimaru has passed away. While Mr. Stevens is not in this book, his example of selflessness, his sense of humour, and his dedication to zazen as outlined here by Deshimaru, has led me to this wonderful book of zen wisdom.	2001-03-07
US	51896565	R2YODAVPWGL9S8	0140445587	891229623	The Koran (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	28	39	N	N	Where Fountains Flow Liquid Gold	An excellent translation of the Muslim's Holy Book. More than a rich works of poetry, this is a call to seeing the world of truth as perceived through the mind of the God Allah of Islam. Where unblemished nubiles wear raiments of flowing silk, where crystal-clear streams of water flow through golden sands, where we prostrate ourselves before Allah, a God more powerful than any man or idol, and where we take up shining arms in defense of our Faith- this is Islam.<br />One of the most important aspects of critical exegesis which is most commonly overlooked is the ordering of passages in a manuscript. This Penguin Classics Revised edition excels not only in the linguistic translation, but also in its ordering of the chapters, which is not only justified, but very effective.<br />What most Westerners do not understand about Islam is how deep it goes, from the Sufi mystics to the reasons for its cultural mores. Muslims are perhaps one of the largest group of scapegoated and misunderstood peoples in the world, when in fact with the Koran they hold a spirituality which begs for commonality, community, peace and brotherhood. While the mistreatment of women by a few selected Muslims needs correction, true Islam is meant to protect the sanctity of womanhood, and to respect woman's most private natures, not to abuse them and make them public pop-culture property as we have in the West.<br />I am not trying to convince you of Allah's might, nor of its truth. That is for you to experience and decide, or to not. But only in being familiar with the Koran and the world of Islam will you be qualified to discuss its worth, or possible problems.	2001-03-07
US	51896565	R2UVYFJTK5P6SX	0785242244	250602301	Imitation Of Christ Nelson's Royal Classics	Books	5	7	9	N	N	One Book In Life- Make it This One.	The &quot;Imitation of Christ&quot;, a collection of short maxims by a Christain monk Thomas a Kempis, has given back to Christianity what was lost in the questionability of the authenticy of the New Testament stories, viz., the ultimate message of Jesus, which has not been lost to us- that of humility, selflessness, longsuffering and love- has been recounted here by a proven mortal. <br />If you have any one book which to refer to in life, if this is it, you are sure to never have a lack of instruction.  The short passages in this book, when applied to any situation, will guarantee that you will prevail at being a decent human being.	2001-03-07
US	51896565	R2QBRFGUZUZQFK	0553266306	999720718	The Day of the Jackal	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The President Hunter	What would be the most difficult thing in the world to hunt and kill? The Snow Leopard? A giant squid? Saddam Hussein? How about a President who has increased his security to the maximum? Yes. Here we meet the Jackal- a professional killer like no other. Paid to assinate the French Prime Minister Charles de Gaulle, he masquerades to hide his identity and he stalks his prey. We see every detail of his plan from plot to execution. But the hunter is equally the hunted. Does he succeed? C'mon now- I'm not going to spoil the climax! You'll have to read the book to find out! Forsyth writes about the subject with uncanny knowledge and intensity- a fiction that will keep you at the edge of your senses!	2001-02-13
US	51896565	R1XZX3JKQDRBRY	0877900361	49943533	The Miracle of Fasting: Proven Throughout History for Physical, Mental and Spiritual Rejuvenation	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Steady Diet of Nothing	When I say 'steady diet of nothing' I am not talking fugazi, but of a tenant of Paul Bragg's excellent philosophy of total physical, mental, and spiritual rejuvenation as is attained through the scientific fasting regimen outlined here. The most difficult thing in a fasting (healing/health) program is personal discipline. Paul Bragg's shining example of robust health and wisdom will inspire you to fast regardless of the western world's constant propaganda and widespread desire to always stuff one's face with food and garbage. The body, mind and spirit need a break once in awhile to slow down their processes and cleanse out the rut accumultaed by poor diets, stress, and the abusive modern pace of living. Many will doubt Braggs words- All as I can say is I feel sorry for them in the great philosophy and healing regimen they will never attain in their ignorance. I had to add that statement not out of any sense of righteousness but because something so simple, free and valuable as fasting for healing and higher health is so grossly misunderstood and misinterpreted by modern man, who generally lack experience in the matter. This program is for you and your health- its not going to hurt you. Paul Bragg was a crusader of physical survival and longetivity, not of physical destruction. Please see Ann Wigomnre's &quot;Hippocrates Diet&quot; to compliment your fasting program for the highest possible health attainable in the world. This is not a fad diet plan, this is reality!	2001-02-08
US	51896565	R1K9UEBNRH007R	0486270920	546651445	Flowers of Evil and Other Works/Les Fleurs du Mal et Oeuvres Choisies : A Dual-Language Book (Dover Foreign Language Study Guides) (English and French Edition)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Most Intriguing of Poets	Les Fleurs du Mal is a bittersweet compilation of poems by Charles Baudelaire, the master of forlorn sentiments who lived in Paris around 1850. Unique to his style is a juxtaposition of the realm of nature with that of the modern city (Paris). Baudelaire, like Gaugin, was one of the few artists of his cohort who had traveled out of his usual frame of reference (from Paris to the islands of La Reunion and back to Paris again), instilling in his vision a lust for the exotic and for realms of simple enchantment. While many perceive his works as pessimistic, it seems to me that the elements of humour and sarcasm woven throughout his works reveal an underlying transcendence over any serious lugubrious entrapment. The French-English text here helps to expose what may have been lost or altered in the translation. Ultimately the poems and their English counterparts here maintain the glory of Baudelaire- dark and uncanny rhymes often intertwined with florid beauty and intimations of the untarnished. A timeless works, the Flowers of Evil is sublimely written.	2001-02-07
US	51896565	R3UO60DSHBUM1I	0025196359	250780002	Barbara Bush: A Memoir	Books	3	1	12	N	N	Fairly Interesting	If you have any interest in the mothers of Presidents, this book is fairly interesting. If you have any interest in luminous women political figures, this book is a bit more interesting. If you have no interest in either, this book is less than interesting. Any questions?	2001-02-02
US	51896565	R63NOPDX2ZJXL	0316545317	70090647	A World Lit Only by Fire: The Medieval Mind and the Renaissance - Portrait of an Age	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Very Juicy	This book certainly is juicy- full of all the sort of sex news and human corruption you'd find in the paparazzi pulp literature of the impulse-buy section near the check-out register at your local major grocery store. Fortunately for Manchester (and the reader) the last chapter on Magellan's great voyage around the world is so fascinating that it almost redeems the first 200 pages of this true sleaze 'literature'. This book should be subtitled 'Sex Sells'.	2001-01-30
US	51896565	RPFJCXMDC1FU1	0062737384	509103202	The World's Most Dangerous Places	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The Best in Five-Star Travel	From the beautiful beaches of Mogadishu to the get-away sands of Southern Algeria, Mr. Pelton has put together a wonderful travel guide for those who really like adventure. Oh, and be sure to bring a big enough suitcase to pack your body home in.	2001-01-26
US	51896565	RDPHBHUMT9HZP	068483958X	975622600	All The Best, George Bush: My Life in Letters and Other Writings	Books	3	1	5	N	N	I'll Give Him a Chance	After reading this book, I have changed my outlook to a more positive perception of the Bush family. Thankyou, Mr. ex-President.	2000-12-18
US	51896565	R3NN0X81SXP0Y9	0688174418	123493690	A Charge to Keep	Books	1	20	80	N	N	Lone Star Winner!	As you can see, this is the only book I have yet to give only one star. But like Texas, its one BIG star for one BIG hick trip. What this book almost foresees is what happened with this election: the media, in their public-driven hyperactivity, certified Bush on election night before the race was definitively won. Then when it turned out that a closer tally may put his rival ahead, all the Repub's panic and try to stop the count. I guess they forget that we live in a democracy, not in some corrupted third-world hot-pot. What this book doesn't say is that Bush's bro Jeb, governor of Florida, as well as Catherine Harris, that brilliant non-partisan judge of things, really are nice people behind all the miasma. And as far as the chapter about Bush avoiding answering Gore in the third debate by looking for help from the mediator, I think it states perfectly how a man ought to be able to defend his positions if he is going to be President. &quot;Welcome to the circus. Hear ye hear ye&quot; states page 36, &quot;on the right we have the folks bread on Bush and Reagan, where politics are all glittering generalities and butterin' up the backwater! On the left we have those over-brainy intellectual democrats, and all as they do is bicker and never get anything done. Forget about the environment for progeny. Forget about the black, the poor, the blind. Forget about reality. Forget about the future of this great nation! The big top is the spin-doctor's spoil!&quot; Enjoy this book countrymen, its a kick of the ole spurs! You'll be laughing all the way to the white house, I'm sure!	2000-12-08
US	51896565	R1AG7MH7F97BHS	0395937582	646140056	Rites of Spring: The Great War and the Birth of the Modern Age	Books	5	3	5	N	N	From the Trenches	I'm no expert on war history, but from reading this book I had a real vicarious &quot;in the trenches&quot; experience of World War I which was frankly quite fascinating and shocking at the same time. Modris Eksteins successfully takes the reader through the twilight of the growing pains of modernity, and we get a real sense of how much innocence was lost and what sort of brave new world was ushered in under the modern war machinery. Eksteins should be applauded for his ability to show both the political situation and individual citizen's attitudes towards the war, both in and off the frontlines. The losses of attrition recounted here are redolent of the French attempt to deter Bismark in 1870-1871; cold, brutal winters, large numbers of casualties, and patriotism facing a wall of death. Don't let one or two negative reviews about Rites of Spring mislead you- this book takes you into the trenches like you are really there. This is superb historical psychology and can help us all to understand the roots of the violent modern theatre and the existential disenfranchisement of our humanity.	2000-12-08
US	51896565	RI4QW7IWG0ROK	0451527720	161332845	The Toilers of the Sea (Signet Classics)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Neptune Would Be Proud	Hugo's story of one man's ultimate struggle with the sea illustrates the fantastic wonders, dangers, and joys of the ocean. From the mastermind and writer who borught us Les Miserables and Notre Dame de Paris, here he takes us out to the Channel Islands and to the forlorn reefs beyond in a story of a triumph of the will, and a sacrifice to fate. It is delightful that Hugo writes of the sea intimately- taking three pages to write of the wind alone, and getting into detail about certain sea-creatures and reef-formations. If the story seems to drag a bit at the beginning- stick with it, for the last 75% of the book is very engaging. Hugo needs to be landlocked at the beginning to set up the story and tie in a driving need of the main character to set out into the unknown. For those who are sailors, surfers, watermen, or people who just like the details of coastal areas, this book is fun to read. For those who like Hugo, here he will take you on quite a different journey away from Paris. The book ends with a moral twist. Did things have to end this way? Gilliat seems to relish in his dramatic ending. Fun, soulful sea-borne reading!	2000-12-08
US	51896565	R19VBZ400AAZ9R	0415921988	44711383	Me Against My Brother: At War in Somalia, Sudan and Rwanda	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Reality Check	This is fascinating reading regarding some of the most intense  struggles and war zones of 1990's Africa which the author experienced first hand. What I appreciate about the book is that Scott Peterson brings deeper insight into the war theatres by being involved with those at ground zero. This book is a reality check for the Western world, so that we may fully see some of the critical problems in Africa. Hopefully this will bring about some sort of understanding of how terribly sheltered we are from Africa's situation. This book helps to bring this world disparity out of the darkness and ultimately establishes a good forum for us all to address Africa more critically. Only by caring enough about the crucial situations there, like Scott Peterson has, can we at least try to frame Africa in our world-view; Sadly you'd have to admit that most westerners are extremely detached from the widespread sufferings in Africa. Scott Peterson's perspective is equally compassionate as it is dispassionate. Perhaps that is the sort of mind required to live at the frontlines. Whatever the case, his perspective has brought me inside the struggles of Africa. We all should try to see beyond our comforts and try to be concerned about what is going on over there. This book will help to educate you.	2000-12-06
US	51896565	RHRWGOFX468U	1560008474	585204733	The Revolt Against Dualism: An Inquiry Concerning the Existence of Ideas	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Why we can never be one with the world.	This book explains why epistemological dualism must remain an objective reality. Arthur Lovejoy counters all of the historical and contemporary philosophical arguements against dualism with learned and precise answers to why we can never fully be connected to the world, at least as far as our perception is concerned. This book is liable to cause a crises in the minds of the &quot;we are all one&quot; and the &quot;I am one with the world&quot; types. The one consolation they may have is that Lovejoy never himself made an effort to experience the more Eastern states of meditation, such as Zen or certain Hindu forms. Thus he is only qualified to state his claim of dualism in intellectual and objective terms, and not by all subjective experiences. He brushes the subjective off rather quickly, and focuses on the scientific and objectively verifiable flaws of monism. It is a fascinating book to read for the pedantically philosophical and metaphysical scientist types (not &quot;New Age&quot; metaphysics, which naively has misinterpreted metaphysics as a path to monism), but CAVEAT EMPTOR, this is some thick stuff and requires a certain degree of hard prior study in the fields of critical thinking, the history of philosophical ideas, and metaphysics. A partial knowledge of the general concepts of physics would also make this book more enetertaining. If you are not entertained by this book, then you probably shouldn't be reading it.	2000-11-03
US	51896565	R3NPKAQ0RGDEDV	0140442510	998141222	Lost Illusions (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Paris is a Deadly Addiction	Without questions, Balzac is one of the most masterful fiction writers in history. In 'Lost Illusions' the world within his literature is as vivid and convincing as ever. The story is based upon a young man who leaves the provincial life to seek his success in Paris. Like New York, Paris has never been an easy place to climb, and in the City of Light the struggle is further compounded by an elitist format of acceptance which is extremely difficult for an outsider to decipher. Thus our hopeful aspirant rides a roller coaster of exultation and tribulation that gets under his skin like a drug which he cannot quit, even though it threatens his ruin (a ruin not without immense repercussions). Beyond the storyline, this is quintessential Balzac- his detailed descriptions and flair for grand and convoluted dramas which evolve in the most fascinating times and places (here- Paris early 1800's, I believe) makes this a treasure of epic proportions.	2000-11-03
US	51896565	R3TCGJ3GUTH2SW	0706700473	889473493	The Fatal Friendship: Marie Antoinette, Count Fersen and the Flight to Varennes	Books	5	5	6	N	N	WILL TAKE YOU THERE!	Once again Stanley Loomis takes us there- to the time of the Great French Revolution, and before, but this time to the side of Marie Antoinette and Louis XVI. Loomis, by pouring through old documents and by meticulous research, has an uncanny way of recreating the past in all its subtle details. This book shows how Marie Antoinette was vilified by her friends, some family members, and by her host country (France), and more significantly, how her spririt became more courageous and fortified as she endured extreme hardships unto her execution. Loomis retraces all the details of her and the deposed king's attempted escapes, from the flight to Varennes under the plan of Count Ferson, to the foiled plot to sneak the queen and her child out of prison. Loomis exposes the truth behind the queen's sequestered love affair with Count Ferson, and her own Austrian family's betrayal of her. Loomis does a fantastic job in showing us King Louis XVI as well- his kind nature in the face of his adversarys (which up to the end he refused to see as his enemies, but maintained that he &quot;would not cause a drop of blood to spill from my subjects&quot;), and his ultimate martyrdom by those he sought to understand. King Louis XVI should be given the accolades befitting a Saint. Loomis' creative command of vocabulary instills his writing with top-notch character descriptions and sometimes with more philosophical questions and ideas. But this book is not pedantic or just for the bookmarmish French history types, it is exceptionally entertaining and highly recommended. For another excellent book by Loomis, please read &quot;Paris In the Terror&quot;! You will not be disappointed with either of these!	2000-11-01
US	51896565	RT5JXPMEVIYGU	0706700473	889473493	The Fatal Friendship: Marie Antoinette, Count Fersen and the Flight to Varennes	Books	5	10	10	N	N	WILL TAKE YOU THERE!	Once again Stanley Loomis takes us there- to the time of the Great French Revolution, and before, but this time to the side of Marie Antoinette and Louis XVI. Loomis, by pouring through old documents and by meticulous research, has an uncanny way of recreating the past in all its subtle details. This book shows how Marie Antoinette was vilified by her friends, some family members, and by her host country (France), and more significantly, how her spririt became more courageous and fortified as she endured extreme hardships unto her execution. Loomis retraces all the details of her and the deposed king's attempted escapes, from the flight to Varennes under the plan of Count Ferson, to the foiled plot to sneak the queen and her child out of prison. Loomis exposes the truth behind the queen's sequestered love affair with Count Ferson, and her own Austrian family's betrayal of her. Loomis does a fantastic job in showing us King Louis XVI as well- his kind nature in the face of his adversarys (which up to the end he refused to see as his enemies, but maintained that he &quot;would not cause a drop of blood to spill from my subjects&quot;), and his ultimate martyrdom by those he sought to understand. King Louis XVI should be given the accolades befitting a Saint. Loomis' creative command of vocabulary instills his writing with top-notch character descriptions and sometimes with more philosophical questions and ideas. But this book is not pedantic or just for the bookmarmish French history types, it is exceptionally entertaining and highly recommended. For another excellent book by Loomis, please read &quot;Paris In the Terror&quot;! You will not be disappointed with either of these!	2000-11-01
US	51896565	R222A6HY5PKTUU	0811205568	838428884	The Smile at the Foot of the Ladder	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Charming, Kind, Courageous and Sublime!	Henry Miller was really tuned in for this short (about 50 pages) novelette. Tuned into what? With certainty he was tuned into his more poetic and esoteric side, but more significantly, he has magnificiently shown how, while others may question your ability to reach your dreams, or discount your dreams period, in holding to your dreams and what you believe in, you in fact are already there. This is brillaint literature, short and sweet. It is fantasy, but rooted in a different and real sort of hero's journey of self-acceptance and affirmation in the face of doubters. Henry Miller tops this concept off with the underlying idea that, as artists of life, we are all qualified from the get-go, as art places no limits on how it is expressed. It is a liberating concept for anyone struggling against the pigeon-hole.	2000-10-27
US	51896565	R2FMGKFSPGIP2I	0773422900	715877900	Martyrdom According to John Chrysostom: "To Live Is Christ, to Die Is Gain" (Distinguished Dissertations)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Phenomenal Works	Gus George Christo, who has dedicated his life to the Christian stance, has meticulously research the writings on martyrdom from St. John Chrysostom, that noble and insightful Pastor of Constantinople who lived around 400 AD. Gus then organized his findings into different chapters which focus on the different meanings that Chrysostom found in, and attributed to, Christian martyrdom. Examples of these would be the meaning and significance of martyrdom by death (&quot;a baptism in blood&quot;) or martyrdom by imitation of the sufferings of Christ, to name a few. There is also some very fascinating chapters on the subject of relics (here- the bones or remains of a died martyr or holy person). Gus writes of how these relics carry great powers that can be translated to one who visits the relics and to ward off the powers of evil. The book is very specific and succinct on what Chrysostom wrote or said, and Gus may have effectively intrepreted the sacred philosophy behind Chrysostom's concepts of Christian martyrdom in such a way that makes it both understandable and fascinating for an interested individual to read. However, there is a sort of paradox in the notion of how pain, suffering, and even death can actually be doorways to God, which requires a shift of perception for most of us. But Gus provides plenty of examples and explanations to help us to grasp this radical concept. Although shrewd scholarly effort clearly went into his book, this book is far from being tedious or boring. In fact it is just the opposite- it is very intense reading, when taking into consideration the subject matter, and goes over the topics creatively and somewhat briskly, but very thoroughly. It is just awesome how Gus has compiled and formatted this work to about 200 pages (approximately). Also, the book is presented in consummate style- it has a high-quality, uniquely textured hardcover with an early artwork representation of Chrysostom on the front, and a very nice color picture of Gus himself on the back.<br /> If I have any one reservation, it is the price of this book, which is daunting. My only consolation is that, where else are you going to find a basically complete body of work on Martyrdom According to St. John Chrysostom? Probably nowhere. Also, the high quality and research that went into this book helps. But again, its quite a cost to pay, so I must include this CAVEAT EMPTOR- this book is for hardcore chrysostom fans, and people really, really interested in Christian Martyrdom. Another warning, which echoes a statement I made above, is that the subject matter may be a leap for most people's minds and faith, too comfortable as we may be in this life. Bravo George Gus Christo, you have done a fantastic job with this. Chrysostom would be &quot;stoked&quot; and you have opened my eyes to an incredible realm. -from a reader who has come to believe in the power of light over darkness, unto death. Merci.	2000-10-25
US	51896565	RDT9RYHI56DW4	0452269350	766601209	Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit (Plume)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Very Important Book	This is a very important book for what Gore has to say about the environment. The environmental problem is mainly caused by the western world's reliance on a consumer lifestyle. Most of our products are causing environmental havoc. A quick look at Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and Sudan, and Downtown Los Angeles shows how our need for diamonds and oil has a direct negative impact on the people and environment in those regions. And our need to eat so much meat via the fast food chains are wreaking havoc upon the rainforests. Gore's book is very well-intended, but we need to look at our consumerism and product-based lifestyle in order to discover how our lives effect the environment. I give Gore 5 stars just for caring enough to try to figure this all out and writing this book.	2000-08-03
US	51896565	R2B20168W6FEDM	0140255087	810313221	The Snow Leopard (Penguin Nature Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	YES and ZEN!	Hmmm... The Snow Leopard- how can I ever forget this book. What begins as  a search for the mysterious snow leopard ends amongst the purity of  snow-capped peaks, skies that rings so clear and blue, and the silent smile  of an enlightened mountain native. Matthiessen's writing reaches the  ineffable wonder and purity of nature that Baudelaire always longed for. A  fun book, a deep book, and a breath of fresh air!	2000-07-26
US	51896565	R3JP5EWYVLCGCR	0812079183	606920849	Mastering French, Level 2: 12 Cassettes (Foreign Service Institute)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Massive!	I commute to work each day for about 2 hours and do this program. I recommend this learning program for those who have extra time here and there- commuting, laying out at the beach, traveling, whatever. Over time all of the tidbits of information here will sink in to your brain. But these are more than tidbits- they are the most essential and basic words and everyday phrases to get by and converse in French on an intermediate level. Of course, keeping up with Parisian and local 'argot' is probably impossible unless you live in the respective area, but what is learned from this system will get you through in speaking French properly, regardless of the fluctuating neighborhood nuances. What I would have liked to have heard more of are expressions like &quot;Quelle belle piece!&quot; for sometimes the dictation is a bit monotonous. I find foreign languages, and French in particular, easiest to remember when it is charged with emotive expression and even situational comedy- which these tapes somewhat lack. Overall, however, it may be preferable to come off as a tempered French speaker. Thus, this French learning system is recommended for its thoroughness.	2000-07-25
US	51896565	RINMGR3LQ0BU	0895292238	709261417	The Hippocrates Diet and Health Program: A Natural Diet and Health Program for Weight Control, Disease Prevention, and	Books	5	90	96	N	N	YES!	What can be said about Ann Wigmore and this book, except for the incredible importance and wisdom they have brought. If you want to heal and abide by the healthiest and most natural diet in the world, this book is  it. I say this after 20 years of diet, research, and lifestyle  experimentation. I am a healthy surfer (but I also work full-time), and say  to you all- let the sunshine into your being- drink wheatgrass and read  this book. The other best health book in the world is &quot;The Miracle of  Fasting&quot; by the other late and great Paul C. Bragg. He and Ann Wigmore  were amazing, courageous, and self-disciplined people in the field of  health. These books shall survive them, and do us all well, forevemore. I'm  &quot;stoked&quot;!  :)	2000-07-25
US	51896565	R2KOH1L6NTPFRY	0931933188	144031453	Paris in the Terror	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Would make a great film!	A transmogrification of the dramatis personae of the French Revolution. More suitable for the silver screen than for the pedantic and school-marmish lone-star hidebounds (below) who in their prevarications  still cannot conceal the fact that this book is exceptionally entertaining,  far from the litany of moribund and pusillanimous hacks. CAVEAT EMPTOR and  BRAVO!	2000-06-03
US	51896565	RHHIDKTAIOLLR	0931933188	644996672	Paris in the Terror	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Wow! You all are so extreme!	I enjoyed reading this book. History is often how it is interpreted, and which evidence one chooses to present. Just because Loomis doesn't stick to the mainstream view of the Revolution, that doesn't necessarily discount  his &quot;version&quot;, if I may inocuously use the word. Mesdames,  Monsieurs, my dear friends, it is precisly this alternative study of the  subject which makes Loomis' works so unique. If you want controlled  interpretations, perhaps you should move to North Korea, or someplace where  they make sure you only see things, and history, one way (like it was in  America until just recently). 5 stars is extreme, as five stars should be  reserved for the Balzacs and Shelleys, yet one star is hardly fair. Ever  tried to write a book? Please do so, and then maybe you will ban one stars  from your vocabulary. It is very easy to sit back and criticize other  people who actively produce. I recommend to everyone who may be interested  in the French Revolution to buy and read this book, and think about it for  yourselves. And Mr. Loomis, if you are out there somewhere, I just want you  to know that I think your work is magnificent and I appreciate your hard  work and research. And for all of you who rightly question Loomis' research  and authority, please read also &quot;The Fatal Friendship&quot; as a work  which proves his shrewdness in historical detail, and puts the matter to  rest... in the stars.	2000-06-02
