US	51895467	R1BKTGHJLJIKSB	0375423214	219859236	The Pirates! In an Adventure with Scientists: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Swashbuckling, Scientific Adventure!	What a delightful little book! I recommend this to anyone who likes pirates. Or scientists. Or monkeys. Or ham. This short book follows one of the many adventures of the Pirates! and, in particular, the Pirate Captain. In this adventure, the pirates mistake Charles Darwin and his ship for something it isn't. They soon end up helping the young scientist, as his brother has been kidnapped by the evil Bishop of Oxford (who is very evil indeed) because of Darwin's radical scientific ideas. This adventure takes them back to England and throughout London, with a brief stopover at a pirate convention.<br /><br />This book is hilarious, and anyone with the tiniest sense of humor will enjoy it. As another reviewer noted, the humor is quite British, but that shouldn't hamper readers from other cultures. I am giving this book the highest marks, because I enjoyed it immensely and think the author is quite clever. Hopefully he'll write another installment! Another bonus is that this book includes handy discussion questions at the end, as well as words to know. Well done, Mr. Defoe! ARRR!	2005-03-07
US	51895467	R2FCJZS6UM9GOG	1400080452	754820255	1: Encyclopedia of an Ordinary Life	Books	4	45	46	N	N	Extraordinary Idea	Encyclopedia of an Ordinary Life is an extraordinary idea, which is amusing, perfectly executed, and well-written. It is exactly what the title says: an encyclopedia (A to Z) of the author's life. Entries are not comprehensive, of course, and are purely the author's choosing, encompassing things such as her husband, how she feels about her name, and her observations and feelings about birthdays.<br /><br />The book reads like an encyclopedia that is slightly non-sensical, as the entries sometimes offer definitions, sometimes offer childhood memories, and sometimes offer observations or ideas. It is illustrated here and there with photos from the author's life, drawings by an encyclopedia illustrator, and other bits and pieces. Although some of the entries are not as engaging or interesting as the rest, overall, the book offers a no-frills, unique look at an ordinary person living an ordinary life. Of course Amy is extraordinary in her own way - she would have to be to write a book like this and for a book like this to be interesting. Her ideas are fun and funny, and I'm sure that many readers will try them out (such as leaving envelopes with change for strangers to find). She is also insightful, and one of the more fascinating aspects of the book is the juxtaposition that occurs between Amy's life and experiences and the reader's own. With a life mapped out in the manner of an encyclopedia, it is easy to draw such comparisons. I can't say that this is a book I'd read over and over again, but it is definitely one I will keep and one I will pass around among my family and friends.	2005-03-07
US	51895467	RZZK85SJFQ2JP	0670033693	963027451	The Cold Dish: A Novel	Books	3	9	17	N	N	A Decent First Attempt, but Not Astounding	The Cold Dish is a decent first attempt by this author. The premise of the book is that one of a group of boys who brutally raped a Native American/Indian girl with Fetal Alcohol Syndrome turns up murdered. What follows is the investigation of the crime, the narrator's gradual narrowing of the suspects, and the race to stop more murders. Side stories of the book include the author's personal struggle/development as he works to move past his wife's death three, no, four years ago, as well as the relationships between the townpeople and the nearby Native American/Indian population (it helps to know that the author himself is very familiar and friendly with the Native Americans/Indians in his community, as it might be distracting to some people to read some of the politically incorrect parts of the book dealing with Native Americans/Indians - this is why I'm using both terms!).<br /><br />Mr. Johnson clearly knows his subject matter (crime, law enforcement, Wyoming, small towns, Native Americans/Indians) very well, which is definitely a plus of the book. He also does a superb job of describing the landscape (although not the town as much), which helps establish the sometimes wild, sometimes mystic atmosphere of the book. The book is also somewhat humorous, but unfortunately not as much as it was intended to be. The flaws in this book come with the pace of the plot and how readily a reader gets involved. The plot takes a long time (possibly half the book) to really get moving. It's possible that this helps with the feeling of frustration Longmire, the sheriff, has with the pace of his investigation or that it's reflective of the pace of life in a small town in the West. I, however, found myself getting distracted and wanting to skip ahead. Also, I did not really find myself emotionally invested in the book. The most emotional moment for me was a scene between Melissa Little Bird and Longmire, somewhat toward the end of the book; that was the only time I found myself feeling twinges of emotion. Some of the characters are well done, some seem too minor (like the author intended them to be more full but their parts were edited and watered down). However, I couldn't shake the feeling that many of the characters were very deliberate, very purposeful in their personalities, words, and actions. Finally, I was very surprised at the identity of the murderer, which was a good thing, but I couldn't help thinking that it was too much of a surprise. I don't read many mysteries, but I have gathered that part of the fun of reading a mystery is that there are cleverly hidden clues that an astute reader can piece together to solve the mystery - I didn't feel that anyone could have seen the end coming, although I could be wrong.<br /><br />From attending a book reading with the author, I know that he intends to make this into a series of books. I am interested to read his next book to see how he develops and expands his voice.feeling twinges of emotion. Some of the characters are well done, some seem too minor (like the author intended them to be more full but their parts were edited and watered down). However, I couldn't shake the feeling that many of the characters were very deliberate, very purposeful in their personalities, words, and actions. Finally, I was very surprised at the identity of the murderer, which was a good thing, but I couldn't help thinking that it was too much of a surprise. I don't read many mysteries, but I have gathered that part of the fun of reading a mystery is that there are cleverly hidden clues that an astute reader can piece together to solve the mystery - I didn't feel that anyone could have seen the end coming, although I could be wrong. <br /> <br />From attending a book reading with the author, I know that he intends to make this into a series of books. I am interested to read his next book to see how he develops and expands his voice.	2005-02-28
US	51895467	RKT33S0D0KGZY	006051261X	583015316	Why I'm Like This	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Hilarious, Heartbreaking Great Journey into Kaplan's World	_Why I'm Like This_ is a collection of personal essays by actress/writer Cynthia Kaplan. The subject matter is completely Kaplan's life, although, of course the stories encompass greater themes (growing older, motherhood, self-esteem, etc.). Throughout the book, we meet Kaplan as a child, Kaplan as a teenager, Kaplan in college, and Kaplan as an adult. She covers a multitude of subjects, ranging from the comical (Kaplan dealing with the unglamorous side of being an actor: being a waiter) to the heartbreaking (the incredible difficulty of putting a loved one in a nursing home and watching their decline). She is a good writer, although it is easy to detect a bit of arrogance in her writing. She is also very skilled at being funny and at always portraying her life from her unique perspective (as opposed to falling into a trap of portraying a typical scenario in a typical way). Kaplan also has a knack for capturing life events perfectly, so that it is easy to imagine experiencing something yourself, even if you have yet to experience to event (her essay on getting pregnant was especially vivid to me - another reviewer noted that Kaplan went over the top with this one, but I disagree - it goes into detail about fertility treatment, but I never once felt that it was too much; it was simply true to life).<br /><br />There is no overall theme to this collection, except that they are Kaplan's life stories. There is also no lesson to be learned or bigger point to be made, which I liked very much, as the stories stand on their own. There are a lot of smaller themes that are consistent throughout the story, however. Also, I thought that it may be difficult for a reader to like this book if he or she could not identify or empathize with Kaplan's point of view. I found many of her experiences hilarious because I often act that way myself, have the same thoughts, etc. If a reader does not have this insight, or is unable to imagine it, he or she might find be unable to appreciate its finer points and its humor. Overally, however, I would say that this is a highly entertaining window into someone's daily existence.e its finer points and its humor. Overally, however, I would say that this is a highly entertaining window into someone's daily existence.	2004-10-13
US	51895467	R1GLCJNX1FADP8	0394895894	312522121	The Ruby in the Smoke: A Sally Lockhart Mystery	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Quality Mystery for Young Adults/Pre-teens	Pullman's 'Ruby in the Smoke' is an intriguing and gripping mystery for young adults or pre-teens. It is not quite as deep, tightly woven, or well-written as a few other books for this age group (notably, Harry Potter), but it still presents a quality read.<br /><br />Sally Lockhart, a Victorian girl recently orphaned by a horrifying but mysterious accident, is the heroine of the book. She is a great character - strong and intelligent, but still believable for her age and era. Throughout the course of the book, Sally will attempt to find out how and why her father died, where the title ruby is, who is trying to cause her harm, and whom she can trust. The plot is very exciting, and pushes you to keep reading, and the characters are varied and believable.<br /><br />It should be noted that this is not a book for young children, as the plot often delves into the seedy side of London in the Victorian era, and many adult themes are present, including murder, greed, and drug use (opium), although NOTHING immoral is glorified in any respect.<br /><br />I am eager to read the next book in the series and find out what happens to Sally and her companions! I highly recommend this for anyone who enjoyed Harry Potter or the Series of Unfortunate Events books. I also look forward to reading other Pullman books.	2004-08-30
US	51895467	R2JNMONTI6V88R	1400042143	595064094	The Lemon Table: Stories	Books	3	9	13	N	N	A Somewhat Plodding Collection about Death & Aging	I would actually give this book 3 1/2 stars if that was possible.<br /><br />Julian Barnes's 'The Lemon Table' is a collection of stories examining death and aging. Each story features a character or characters who are facing growing older or dying. Some face it with confusion, some with resignation, some with rebellion, and some with disappointment. Barnes skillfully presents a variety of characters: octogenarian women, a male Russian playwright, a middle-aged Englishman, an aging WWII vet, and many more. His characters are believable and their lives and emotions are palpable.<br /><br />My mediocre rating stems from the effort it took for me to get through the collection. There are some gems in the collection, such as \\"The Things You Know,\\" \\"The Story of Mats Israelson,\\" and \\"Hygiene,\\" but several of the stories had potential to be more fascinating or developed than they were. This mainly seemed to be a result of Barnes's writing being tinged by arrogance or the desire to be more clever than the reader. This quality isn't as overt in Barnes's work than in that of other authors, but it sometimes crops up nonetheless. The result is a somewhat plodding quality to some of the stories (such as \\"The Silence\\"), where the reader feels left out of \\"the know.\\"<br /><br />Regardless of these criticisms, Barnes's writing is witty, skillful, and polished, and he does a fantastic job of not turning the book into a depressing or morbid collection. Instead, the stories take mundane people and situations (I constantly had the feeling as if each could be the personal story of a next-door neighbor or coworker) and use them to add another valuable and unique perspective to the book's examination of death and aging.	2004-08-16
US	51895467	R1GZNFHK2Q5MCN	0375509089	820528775	Loose Lips	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Fun Reading, but Not Enough	Loose Lips provides a fun, good read, but left me unsatisfied in many respects. Loose Lips is about Selena Keller, a recent graduate with her doctorate in Sanskrit. She is facing a life in academia, probably at an obscure Midwestern college, when, on a lark, she applies for a job at the CIA. She is quickly interviewed, tested, grilled, and hired. The majority of the book describes her experiences in training to be a case officer. The quality of this book comes from its detail of the inner workings of the CIA and from Berlinski's use of language. Main characters are well-sketched, but ancillary characters are sometimes lightly brushed over. Be aware that the novel never shows the main character in the field or as a spy. This is more a novel about the rigors of penetrating, understanding, and assimilating to CIA culture.<br /><br />Berlinski writes well, using strong, unique language and peppering her plot with humor. Toward the end of the book, however, the humor dries up and the narrative starts becoming haphazard. The reader is left with many unanswered questions about the crux of the novel: the truth. The novel is never misrepresented (the character says at the very beginning, 'I will never know the truth'), but I always remained hopeful that matters would have some resolution and I would close the book satisfied. However, the reader is left confused about the reality of the character's situation, the true nature of her colleagues and friends, and what really was the point of the whole ordeal. It is also somewhat unclear why someone like Selena, who is so unlike the rest of the trainees, was chosen for the CIA and why her failures and sometimes questionable background are overlooked.<br /><br />Overall, this is a fun read, but you do not gain a whole lot in the way of insight. It is interesting to learn about CIA culture and training, as well as the expectations of this demanding job. There were, however, too many things in the book that left me feeling unsatisfied.sfied.	2004-08-02
US	51895467	R10JX70916OFA2	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	An Amazing Book about Our Amazing World	It may sound trite, but this is a truly amazing book. Although the book is not very short, it does cover nearly everything. You will learn about atoms, early humans, stars, the theory of evolution, elements, bacteria, plate tectonics, and much, much more, as well as all of the fascinating, brilliant, and sometimes very odd people associated with these things.<br /><br /> This is definitely an 'astound your friends' kind of book. Not only will you gain a greater appreciation and understanding for the the world around, above, and below us, you will learn fascinating tidbits to drop casually into conversation, such as 'Did you know that each human alive right now probably has about a billion atoms that once belonged to William Shakespeare?'<br /><br />To be fair, this information has existed elsewhere before this book. But, the book combines fascinating, informative facts with high-quality, entertaining writing. Bryson does a wonderful job of explaining even the most confusing of subjects and makes everything entertaining and engaging. He provides a perfect mix of intellectual material, human interest, and humor. Not to gush too much, I must close with one final praise of the book. To close, Bryson chose to discuss our place in the world he has so carefully and intriguingly been describing. He discusses the destruction we have caused and the power we have over our world. I found his message of caution, conservation, and love of living things the perfect end to the book. Bryson spends 450+ pages cultivating a deep fascination and appreciation of the world and universe in his reader and uses those feelings to make a message of conservation touching, understandable, and accessible.<br /><br /> This book will enrich any person's life.	2004-07-29
US	51895467	R956AHHE2WNK9	1594480508	698372812	What Not To Wear for Every Occasion	Books	5	22	25	N	N	A great follow-up to Trinny &amp; Susannah's first	Where Trinny and Susannah's first book focused on body traits and how to disguise them or flaunt them with your wardrobe, this book focuses on what not to wear for different occasions.<br />The book is broken down by occasion (e.g., first job interviews, back-to-work interviews, winter holidays, summer weddings) and then by type: smart, casual, or trendy. As with the first book, there are great photos, with the no-nos on the left and the yes, pleases! on the right. The book is not intended to be a book of strict rules, but rather a collection of guidelines you can adapt to your own style, age, and body type. Each photo also comes with a &quot;What This Says about You&quot; caption, which may be what people REALLY think when you wear white to a wedding. The photos also give readers interesting ideas on what can be worn, what can go together, and what's appropriate. As with the first book, this book also has a &quot;where to shop&quot; guide, as well as general guidelines for occasions (e.g., what to bathe in before an interview to make yourself alert).<br />Overall, this book gives a bunch of useful tips and interesting ideas. It is a fun, enjoyable read, and one that can be picked up more than once. If you combine this book with the duo's first, you will never be caught wearing the wrong thing for your body type or for any occasion!	2004-05-26
US	51895467	R2N44XS3LR75Q4	0399151605	67097076	Divining Women (Gibbons, Kaye)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Gibbons outdoes herself	I had high expectations for Kaye Gibbons's first book in six years, as she is one of my all-time favorite writers. Divining Women does not disappoint.<br />The story: Mary is a young woman who grew up around wealthy, free-thinking relatives during the first part of the 20th century. One grandfather is a nudist, another plays host to the spirits who come through their house on the way to somewhere else in their afterlives. She has also enjoyed the benefit of a variety of strong female role models, including her mother and grandmothers. Due to WWI, Mary education is on hold. Her mother decides to send her to take care of her aunt (her mother's half-brother's wife), Maureen, who is heavily pregnant, in North Carolina. Maureen's husband and Mary's uncle, Troop, due to his upbringing and family history, is the worst sort of man: selfish, abusive, cowardly, and manipulative. He has constantly manipulates reality to suit himself and has gone through extreme trouble to crush every ounce of his wife's spirit and passion. As the women's relationship develops, the influenza outbreak worsens, the war goes on, and they slowly learn from each other and band together against the evil in their lives.<br />This novel is dark, but it would be unrealistic if it were otherwise, as it takes place in a dark time: during World War I, in the midst of the influenza breakout. Gibbons draws off her own experiences with love, heartbreak, and renewal, as well as tragic events of modern times, such as September 11th. Her writing is magical, beautiful, and masterful. I often found myself reading the same passage over and over to ensure that I got every drop of enjoyment out of it. Unlike other reviewers, I found the characters to be completely unique, but utterly believable. Gibbons uses humor as well as tragedy to construct an amazing, gratifying, and empowering story. Additionally, the novel gives great insight into southern life in the early 20th century.<br />Although Gibbons has written many wonderful books, this is one of her greatest. It is easily one of the best books of the year, if not of modern times.y wonderful books, this is one of her greatest. It is easily one of the best books of the year, if not of modern times.	2004-05-26
US	51895467	R2X99EN4U3K9UV	1573223573	848656052	What Not to Wear	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Must for Any Woman, Whether You Like Clothes or Not	Based on the popular BBC series \\"What Not to Wear,\\" this book summarizes Trinny and Susannah's basic rules of what not to wear. At the very least, you will discover what a person of your body type should not wear and you can then buy clothes using a process of elimination. However, Trinny and Susannah do give very good tips about what clothes suit you and what you should look for.<br />The book is broken down by body type: big arms, big boobs, no boobs, saddlebags, short neck, etc. It is then broken down further by best and worst clothes: best and worst skirt, best and worst boots, best and worst jacket, etc. For each best and worst, there are great photos of Trinny and Susannah that illustrate what they're saying. At the end of each section, they summarize their points by giving you basic rules to follow for each body part. They also list places to shop to find the clothes to suit you at the end of the book.<br />Following Trinny and Susannah's rules are GUARANTEED to make you look better without changing your body in any way. Reading this book is informative and entertaining. It is not a \\"do this, don't do this, do this\\" boring, droning guide. The girls are always biting and unforgiving, and they will force you to be more honest with yourself. My only criticism about this book is that it is not all-encompassing. You will not find what not to wear for any occasion or what not to wear for your exact body type (i.e., broken down by clothes size, measurements, etc.). Instead, you will find basic ground rules to adapt for yourself and follow whenever you shop. I am hoping that further Trinny and Susannah books, including their other book, _What Not to Wear for Every Occasion_, will supplement this book nicely and give further detail about what not to wear.	2004-05-04
US	51895467	R2INAD50YL2ZNF	0440207665	889092819	Eva	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	Unique and Visionary Book for Teens	Eva is the story of a teenage girl who is in a car accident and undergoes a procedure to enable her to keep living. The first part of the book concentrates on Eva awakening and adapting to her new self and is excellent. Teens will definitely identify with her feelings of separation and her frustration at her lack of control. They may also learn from her strong will and unfailing attitude.<br />The second part of the book concentrates on Eva's newfound \\"purpose\\" in life. Her new life is worlds away from her old life as a pretty, admired teen. What she decides to do with her life, her fame, and her self are very intriguing and the author uses her situation to voice views about conservation, animal welfare and rights, and the state of the human race and condition. Some readers may find this portion of the book preachy, but I found it very valuable and an interesting frame for familiar views.<br />Eva is well-written and exciting. Descriptions are extremely vivid and realistic, and I found it easy to get involved in the story. The characters are very defined and skillfully drawn. This is a valuable book for humans of all ages.	2004-04-28
US	51895467	R1Z01BUNY1K4HE	0802139256	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	2	12	16	N	Y	Disappointing, at best	I read this book as a result of Mayor Hickenlooper's \\"one book\\" program for Denver. From the beginning, it was a substantial disappointment.<br />Overall, I found _Peace Like a River_ dull and not at all engaging. I did not find myself caring about the characters or what happened to them. Instead, I was mostly annoyed by them. The narrator, Reuben, is an inconsistent voice. It is clear from the beginning that the perspective is one of an adult looking back on his childhood, but that perspective is not maintained throughout the book. Also, I got very tired of Reuben saying \\"If Swede (his sister) were present, she would have had words enough to describe it,\\" or some variation thereof. Every time this was said, I kept thinking, \\"so why isn't Swede narrating the book?\\" Speaking of Swede, I found her not believable for a 9-year-old (she makes a Christmas dinner most adults couldn't make, she writes like an adult, and her vocabulary is way too advanced, especially considering her upbringing and background) and somewhat irritating. The character (and its creator) seemed very self-satisfied. To sum up, many of the characters were archetypes with no surprises or variations.<br />The story itself was intriguing, but the way the author and characters approached it made it boring. I was able to anticipate the surprises and plot twists. There were spurts of decent writing, but mostly it was dull and common. I also found the book's fantastical/magical component unbelievable and uninteresting. Unlike talented magical realists such as Garcia Marquez, Enger does not make the out-of-the-ordinary seem wonderful or acceptable. The reader is almost hounded with miracles and faith instead of being intrigued by them. I especially found the final miracle to be desperate rather than amazing. The ending is perfect for this book: it is just as disappointing. There are a bunch of very unsurprising, smarmy-sweet events that tie things up, some of which don't even make sense, such as the romance that comes out of nowhere and how Swede's life turns out. In other words, everything is just SO perfect.<br />I will say, however, that I enjoyed the Sunny Sundown epic, although even that grew tiresome and less skilled as the book wore on. Like other reviewers, I am astounded that so many reputable publications/establishments, even the City of Denver, adored this book.e that comes out of nowhere and how Swede's life turns out. In other words, everything is just SO perfect.<br />I will say, however, that I enjoyed the Sunny Sundown epic, although even that grew tiresome and less skilled as the book wore on. Like other reviewers, I am astounded that so many reputable publications/establishments, even the City of Denver, adored this book.	2004-04-19
US	51895467	RIO52YF7QXPN9	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fascinating Subject, Good Writing, Shaky Plot	Year of Wonders is based on a true story that occurred in England during the 17th century. When the plague comes to a small village, the villagers, at the urging of their preacher, decide to barricade themselves in to prevent the spread of the disease to other places.<br />Brooks focuses on a likable, intelligent maid, Anna, who provides a link between all of the village's residents. Most of the novel provides a retrospective narrative of the year or so that the village struggled with the plague, while the rest of the novel reveals Anna's situation following the reopening of the village.<br />Brooks's style is elegant and lyrical and the subject is fascinating. It is also interesting to see how Brooks imagines characters' reactions to such a horrifying situation. It is unfortunate that the plot is not as deep as it could have been. Certain plot twists, such as those involving the village's preacher, Mompellion, and Anna's life at the end of the novel, seemed a bit out of place and too extreme.<br />The quality writing and the unique subject matter definitely qualify Year of Wonders as a &quot;good book,&quot; but the sometimes weak plot keeps it out of the &quot;great books&quot; category.	2004-01-23
US	51895467	R1IO92RPW3IWRG	1579547923	407110910	Living on the Edge: Amazing Relationships in the Natural World	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent book for animal lovers &amp; fans of Jeff's show	As a fan of The Jeff Corwin Experience, I eagerly bought this book when it first came out. I was very excited to read it and was definitely not disappointed. Jeff's humor and wit are even more apparent in the book, and his knowledge is shown to be flawless.<br />The book is composed of four sections, each of which explore an area of the world: Arizon's Sonoran desert, the African savannah, the Costa Rican rainforest, and the Llanos of Venezuela. I found this selection perfect, as I'd seen specials on each of these previously. I hope, however, that maybe Jeff will explore other areas, perhaps Australia or Asia, in future books. Jeff does not merely describe animals or give facts about them; he composes an intricate story about each animal, sometimes to the point that you feel very concerned or saddened when something happens to the creature at hand. You are not really learning about Jeff's experience with the animals, you are experiencing them firsthand.<br />The book is definitely well-written. Jeff's humor and enthusiasm come across loud and clear. Also, the photographs are second to none, and almost all of them (except perhaps five) were taken by Jeff! My only disappointment about the book was that the editing was a tad sloppy, as there were typos and words missing at times.<br />Overall, however, this is a superb book for an Animal Planet viewer, an animal lover, an explorer, or a Jeff Corwin fan.	2003-12-19
US	51895467	RRSO3ZKUNTR56	0060184973	20324026	Elizabeth: The Struggle for the Throne	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fascinating look at the early life of a great queen	As a fan of the monarchy and a lover of British history, Elizabeth I is my favorite monarch and the Elizabethan/Tudor period is one of my favorite periods of history. This book enhanced my understanding of the period and rounded out a historical figure who is, at the very least, sometimes romanticized and idolized.<br />If you're looking for a book that will give you a complete picture of the virgin queen, this isn't it. This book very thoroughly explores her life prior to becoming queen. Her actual monarchy has perhaps 50 pages devoted to it. Starkey does, however, make this clear up front. This book will give you a greater understanding of the woman who later became queen.<br />Starkey's narrative is chock full of interesting facts, but he is careful never to make it dry or dull. He intersperses humor and unique anecdotes throughout the book. He is a talented storyteller, even if he does use the phrase &quot;willy-nilly&quot; a few too many times. This book also contains two sections of illustrations, mostly consisting of paintings of Elizabeth, her family, and the prominent people in her life. It is a good supplement to the story and includes many of the best portraits of the period.<br />Finally, I would urge anyone who has the chance to see Mr. Starkey speak to not pass it up. I saw him speak at a signing for his other book on the wives of Henry VIII and it was extremely memorable and fascinating. He is also more than willing to discuss any questions readers might have about the history or about why he did certain things in his books.<br />Overall, Starkey presents a fascinating, unique, seldom-seen view of one of England's most beloved monarchs.	2003-12-04
US	51895467	R2SB8G4EP21ZSB	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best books of recent years	Life of Pi is truly a unique story. It is the story of an Indian boy who is the child of a zookeeper. When his parents make the decision to leave their country for Canada, Pi's life is on the verge of changing forever. Through a series of events, Pi ends up in a lifeboat with a Bengal tiger for several months. The book is primarily written in Pi's voice, although it is framed by the situation of Martel interviewing an extraordinary man.<br />Not only is this book extremely well-written, it is purely unique in its plot and characters. The book is masterfully constructed, especially when one considers that most of the book takes place with only one human character in the middle of the ocean.<br />Passages where Martel delves into discussing animals are most enjoyable and palpable. There are countless memorable scenes and characters, ones that will stay with me forever. The descriptions are so vivid, you can almost sense what the characters sense. For being extraordinary, the plot is believable - I wouldn't even categorize it as magical realism (not that magical realism isn't believable, it is just fantastical at times). Besides introducing you to a multitude of experiences and characters, Martel also runs the reader through the entire gamut of emotions, everything from hilarity to despair to religious ecstasy to love.<br />It is admirable that Martel resisted the trap of anthropomorphizing the animal characters. Instead, they stayed beautiful, real, and fascinating.<br />Definitely pick this book up and experience Pi's India, ocean, and survival!	2003-12-04
US	51895467	R2ROPK199HY16H	0140271449	337152702	Sexy Origins and Intimate Things: The Rites and Rituals of Straights, Gays, Bis, Drags, Trans, Virgins, and Others	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A mix of history, trivia, and tittilation	Sexy Origins is a fascinating book that details the history and lore behind everything related to sex and sexuality...<br />History buffs looking for something different, trivia lovers, or readers who are interested in sexuality will love this book. It is well-written and well-researched. The facts are broken up with humor, quotes, quirky illustrations, and interesting anecdotes. Panati also does a good job of presenting opposing viewpoints objectively but modernly. As might be expected in a book like this, there are many delicate subjects that are broached, including the objectification of women and their subordination. Panati presents objective information in these instances, but sometimes also provides his (refreshingly modern) take on things to balance out the perspective the reader is presented with.<br />Admittedly, it is difficult to read this book continuously. I read it from cover to cover, but read it over the course of a year or so. After reading Sexy Origins, you will definitely come away with fresh perspective and insight on human sexuality.	2003-12-03
US	51895467	R1DLSAGL4YBRRV	0786869216	703127096	The Pleasure of My Company: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A delightful novel of paradoxes	Steve Martin's second novel is a novel of paradoxes. The main character, Daniel Pecan Cambridge, is the embodiment of these paradoxes: he is lonely, but has much love to give; he is logical to an insane degree; he is a social outcast in many senses of the phrase, but fancies himself a catch for any woman.<br />The novel is extremely well-written and does a fantastic job of immersing the reader in the story and connecting him or her to the characters. It is easy to believe and identify with every character, and Martin definitely creates some memorable ones, especially Brian, Philipa, and, of course, Daniel himself. The humor is subtle, quirky, and endearing without undermining the novel's tone and emotion. It is admirable that Martin does not fall into the trap of creating a stereotypical character with mental illness. He instead portrays the everyday through anxiety- and compulsion-tinted glasses.<br />I felt that _Pleasure of My Company_ is more evolved compared to _Shopgirl_. The characters are more fully realized, as is the storyline. _Shopgirl_ is also a unique and beautiful novel, however, and should definitely not be missed. Fans of Martin's humor and films may not find the actor/comedian's most prevalent personality obvious in these novels, but instead may gain a new understanding of another, more private facet of his personality.	2003-12-03
US	51895467	R2D00C1EW0CX1	0743251083	647228892	From Bush to Bush: The Lazlo Toth Letters	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Subtle but humorous	This is the first installment of the Lazlo Toth letters I have read. Although the title implies that the letters are strictly political, it is instead intended to imply the timeline of the letters, as they range from the presidency of one Bush to the present Bush. The addressees of Lazlo's letters are probably two-thirds politicians, such as Al Gore and Dubya, and one-third &quot;other.&quot; Other addressees range from companies such as the maker of Hungry Man dinners to Queen Elizabeth II to Saddam Hussein.<br />Although the book wasn't as uproarious as I anticipated, I still found it clever and chuckle-worthy. The humor is definitely more subtle than blatant, and you are more likely to laugh to yourself or chuckle than laugh out loud. You're not likely to be slapped in the face with this book. The subjects, the piddly donations, the mini-rants are all sources of humor. Often, the replies to Lazlo's letters are just as funny as his original letters, especially when the reply has absolutely nothing to do with what Lazlo said, which is something everyone has experienced when writing a letter to a politician or corporation.<br />In conclusion, I would say that this is a book I will lend to friends and I will definitely read Novello's other books, but this probably isn't the type of book I would re-read. And I was left with one nagging question...why doesn't the Pope ever write back???	2003-10-02
US	51895467	R13KTGL4PK8VGX	0312134983	645437965	From Mother to Daughter: Advice and Lessons for a Good Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Necessity for Any Daughter	It's a fact: all women are daughters, and this book is for all daughters. The book contains morsels of advice mixed in with quotes from real women (presumably, some of the author's friends) about their mothers, although some are a bit off the wall. The least you will get out of this book is inspiration to contemplate your own mother, if not the women of your entire family, and her influence on you.<br />The book contains advice on every aspect of a woman's life, from manners to love and marriage to education and work. The author smartly juxtaposes contradictory pieces of advice, such as &quot;if you don't get married, who will take care of you when you're old?&quot; with &quot;you don't have to get married,&quot; thereby replicating a real mother's advice-giving and teaching the lessons that some advice is appropriate for some situations and sometimes you have to take two pieces of advice and meet in the middle.<br />Some pieces of advice are interesting (such as how to make panty hose last longer), some are humorous, and some are sweet. All are delightful and will make any woman think of her own mother and, if relevant, her daughter(s) or future daughter(s). This book would make an ideal gift for a mother, a daughter, or a sister. It seems too intimate a gift for a friend, but may be right if the friend is a close one.	2003-09-24
US	51895467	R3JTLYZQQ6WC71	0679463135	516718361	The Pursuit of Alice Thrift	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Neither good nor bad, strictly ambivalent	I had higher expectations of this novel, as I read glowing reviews both on-line and in Book magazine.<br />Although Lipman's book is populated with believable, well-drawn characters, and the story is unique and also believable, I just didn't find it interesting enough. I felt that the outcome (if not the journey there) was predictable, the characters were ALMOST quirky, and the humor was ALMOST funny.<br />There are no flaws with Lipman's writing, her characters, or her story; I just found myself watching &quot;the pursuit of Alice Thrift&quot; (both literally by Ray, and metaphorically with Alice's pursuit of her self) from the outside, hovering above the story. I was not immersed in it or emotionally attached to it. I just watched the plot unfold ambivalently.<br />My only other criticism is that I felt, despite her social ignorance, Alice should have felt suspicious of her mysterious, over-the-top beau because she wasn't a stupid person. I felt like her naivety was too contrived, however, I was still willing to go along with the story.	2003-08-04
US	51895467	R20I3GOFJXXPC5	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A brilliant addition to the series	Although this book has been reviewed extensively, I felt an obligation to contribute my review as a big fan of the series.<br />This is an amazing contribution to the series, and I think Rowling deserves to be the richest person in the UK. She tells an amazing story without being pretentious or silly. This book shows her skill in character development. Other reviewers have critisized her portrayal of Harry as an angry, self-conscious teenager. However, I think this was a wise choice. Other reviewers have complained that Rowling took away their hero. On the contrary, I think that Rowling made Harry more real and thus more admirable and easy to identify with. I felt that his feelings, although sometimes irrational, were understandable.<br />I also want to commend Rowling on her introduction of possibly the most detestable character ever written: Dolores Umbridge. I picture this woman as the monotone Jabba the Hut-looking monster in Monsters, Inc. She is truly horrible, and it reflects well on Rowling that readers feel strong emotions when reading her book. Umbridge isn't even a character you love to hate, like Snape, you just HATE her.<br />I won't give anything away, but my one disappointment was that certain characters did not get their come-uppance or did not get enough of one. However, this is Rowling's choice, and it did not come close to ruining anything for me. Also, some might be upcoming. All in all, a marvel of a book, one I could barely put down.	2003-07-02
US	51895467	R3VPMHO6AZAINV	0312306326	631084691	Visions of Sugar Plums: A Stephanie Plum Holiday Novel (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Just because it's a holiday novel...	...doesn't mean that the author can be lazy writing it. In the past, I have enjoyed Ms. Evanovich's style of writing, her unique characters, and her humor. This novel does have a few bright rays of humor, but mostly, it is an attempt to be a different kind of holiday novel. Stephanie Plum is back, and goes on an adventure very similar to her past ones. The main problems: 1. Two of the best characters, Ranger and Morelli, are barely present. Ranger is completely absent, except for one fleeting mention. Morelli only appears to kiss Stephanie's head (is he her father or her boyfriend?) and then disappear again. 2. I originally was excited to begin reading this novel because I thought that the suspension of reality would have an interesting twist. Alas, it fizzles out and ends up not really explained on the premise of retaining mystery. 3. The brevity of the novel works to its detriment ultimately, since the climax is quickly acheived and the novel BOOM ends.<br />This novel started out good and went slowly downhill. Even Rex was a mild disappointment!	2002-12-13
US	51895467	R2JJG8UMERBOAQ	088088679X	849051517	What's Cooking?: A Recipe Organizer (Personal Organizers)	Books	4	37	37	N	Y	ALMOST ideal	As a person who constantly clips things out to save, I really needed a recipe organizer.<br />This book is almost perfect. It's attractive, with it's vintage-style photographs and cooking-related quotes. It has pockets for your clippings, photo album-type pages for a recipe you're currently making (thereby protecting the recipe), and pages for you to write in recipes garnered from friends or family members. This book does provide a home for all of your recipes.<br />One problem is that the pockets are simply paper folders, and I am already stuffing them full! Perhaps an expandable cloth pocket would be better, but that is wishful thinking. Also, the paper pockets are already worn, and my recipes are starting to seep out the bottom.<br />Another problem is the collection of categories. Included are: Appetizers, Soups & Salads, Pasta, Main Courses, Side Dishes, Breads, Desserts, and Miscellaneous. However, I think that this is not all-inclusive. Other useful categories might be Sauces or Beverages.<br />However, for the price and purpose, this is a good item.	2002-10-25
US	51895467	R3LE01J8PGZXXA	080505829X	960430630	What To Do When Someone You Love Is Depressed : A Practical, Compassionate, and Helpful Guide	Books	4	77	79	N	Y	Helpful but sometimes incomplete	I bought this book for my husband and his family and for my family to help them understand my depression and gather some better methods for supporting me. It is helpful, as it is very informational about all facets of the disorder: what a depressed person experiences, different types of depression, medication options, etc.<br />One thing I was excited about was the list of &quot;depressed people's sayings&quot; and the list of responses NOT to give and alternative, better responses. This is a helpful list, since this is one of the problems I encounter the most (&quot;You shouldn't think that way,&quot; &quot;That's silly,&quot; &quot;You're hurting those who love you&quot;). However, the responses are repetitions, mostly of &quot;I know you feel that way now, but we will get through this together.&quot; And, even though this is a good response, saying it as a response to everything someone says just sounds silly. However, the concept of the list is wonderful, since it serves the purpose of showing people flaws in their responses.<br />As is the case with this example, other advice/information is good and beneficial, but incomplete or repetitious. I suppose the excuse is that it's impossible to analyze a disorder that is different for everyone, hard to pin down, and extremely difficult for a non-depressed person to understand.<br />However, for a general overview and introduction to depression for non-depressed friends or family members, this is a good book to buy.	2002-10-11
US	51895467	R1W2PSMQSBV4I2	0380711966	788033522	Tim	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A repeat read	As a person who adores both Harry Potter and Salman Rushdie, this is one of my all-time favorite books. I have read this book at least 8 times in the past few years, and I have lent it to many a friend and loved one. The story is engrossing, the characters are complex and endearing, and McCullough's writing is magical. As a writer and an editor, this is a story I appreciate every time I read it.	2002-09-10
US	51895467	R3O21RMJ4DUCET	0312979886	724183614	Female Intelligence	Books	2	3	4	N	N	I read all of it, but just barely	In the book's favor, the desire to find out what would happen kept me reading until the end, but that was all that kept me going.<br />This book was not well-written, had over-the-top stereotypes as characters, was funny in about two places, was badly edited, and was very formulaic. I would not read another book of Ms. Heller's. Luckily, I didn't buy this one: it was loaned to me by a friend. I recommend reading Bridget Jones again or reading _Simply Divine_ if you want a decent novel of this type.	2002-05-16
US	51895467	R25CZ69L4EOVXG	189251415X	758908554	The Bearded Lady	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A beautiful, passionate, exciting first novel	I got hooked on circus novels after reading &quot;Geek Love&quot; (pick it up!). This is another marvelous contribution. Ms. Dieguez expertly recreates the south just after the turn of the 20th century. She also creates deep, tangible characters, especially in Jessie and Tweets, but in every one of the other characters as well.<br />This book is a marvelous exploration of love, desire, sisterhood, societal norms, and gender. Dieguez's narrative is a beautifully woven tapestry, and I lapped up every word. I only have a couple disappointments. First, the hardcover version was badly edited (there were a few misspelled words, and several paragraphs that were not indented). Second, a serious problem with Jessie is not wrapped up by the novel's end. This could be because Jessie is no longer worried about it, or it could be the case of a first-time author forgetting to tie up all the threads. With both of these problems, they were disappointing, but did not lessen my enjoyment of this marvelous book.	2002-05-11
US	51895467	R3LJOZLJQ4L5XY	0812505042	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fascinating classic still relevant today	I admit that I didn't see the recent Guy Pearce movie. However, I picked up this book out of curiosity fostered by all of the hype. I was pleasantly surprised by the calm preciseness of the narrative, and the fascinating issues the book raises. I expected more actions or descriptions, but most of the events seemed to be emotional or visceral. (With classics, your level of enjoyment seems to correlate with your level of expectation.)<br />The most fascinating part of the book is when the scientist tells the tale of what he did at the end of his initial journey into the future.<br />This is a must-read for anyone. If you don't like it, it will at least give you some meaty topics to think about in our modern, tumultuous society.	2002-05-06
US	51895467	R2VN1U27UFUDGV	0811827623	494365075	Milton	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A unique, simple, & all-around amazing book!	I picked this book up in a store that sells things such as rolling coasters and [costly] art deco toothbrushes. I picked it up first, because I'm a cat lover, and second, because I have not gotten over my fascination with children's books. I don't yet have a child, but I plan to protect this book in the next few years in order to share it with my child. As children's books go nowadays, the illustrations and the story are unique and simple. Milton is made to be endearing and sweetly feline in only about ten sentences. If you have a cat, you'll appreciate this book. If you have a child, share it with him/her to heighten the imagination and the mystique around our furry friends. And, if you don't have either, consider getting this book anyway-- it might convince you into one or the other!	2002-05-06
US	51895467	R1LWI5QYULY706	0740721984	732274271	Fuzzy Logic Get Fuzzy 2	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	A book full of the comic that highlights my day!	Truly, I look forward to reading &quot;Get Fuzzy&quot; every morning as the highlight of my day. The first collection was great, but this one is even better, if only because it's more &quot;Get Fuzzy&quot;!<br />If you are an animal lover who enjoys comics with attitude, try &quot;Get Fuzzy&quot; and get hooked. My only disappointment was that I think some of the story lines included (like the sock puppet incident) were not complete. But otherwise, a treasure I'll read again and again whenever I need a pick-me-up!	2002-04-24
US	51895467	R2KLG392AGBIBN	0375503064	94745060	The Clothes They Stood Up In	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Not what I expected, but I thought it would be better	I had somewhat high expectations of this book as a bizarre, quaint little tale from a mind who created the marvelous film, &quot;The Madness of King George.&quot;<br />The book itself was enjoyable, but I would not read it again or recommend it to a friend. Bennett could benefit from some punctuation, as some of his sentences are run-ons or are nonsensical (I'm sorry, but I'm an editor). The satire of the British middle class, Britain in general, and various types of people is the best part about the book. It is intelligent in that way.<br />My biggest disappointment was that the bizarre tale climaxed (when the reader finds out how, by whom, and why all of the Ransomes' possessions were stolen) in a way that did not fit with the rest of story and, indeed, did not add anything to it.<br />The characters are high quality, however, in a book that is so small and fluid.	2002-04-21
US	51895467	R1HX4SS3EDIGMB	0292760280	397586531	100 Love Sonnets: Cien sonetos de amor (Texas Pan American Series) (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	If you buy one book, this has to be it	This book has served many purposes for me. It was a Valentine's Day present for my fiance (then my boyfriend of 3 months). I chose a poem to read at our wedding. I read it for pleasure. I read it to renew my interest in Spanish. I recommended it to everyone and anyone.<br />Neruda's poetry is nothing short of astounding. This book is perfect, since a lot of people prefer love poetry if they do not normally read poetry. It has the Spanish version on one side of the page, and the English translation on the other.<br />The poems range from touching to angry to erotic to mournful to playful. Neruda's descriptions will make you look at the world with new eyes. Neruda is one of the only poets I have come across who approached love like Shakespeare: with a variety of emotions and perspectives. Another refreshing thing is that Neruda is very passionate and worshipful of women, never spiteful or cruel. His poetry is also very personal, as much of it seems to be directed toward his wife.<br />Buy this to find a perfect poem for a reading or speech. Buy it as a gift for a lover or loved one, or a romantic friend. Please, just buy it to have on your library shelf, for your friends and your children to pick up and discover.	2002-04-18
US	51895467	R284UY6EFJ5IGP	078686477X	251700678	The Book of Us: The Journal of Your Love Story in 150 Questions	Books	4	105	111	N	Y	Great if you use it correctly	I bought this book as a birthday gift for my fiance. We have been together over 2 years and are getting married in about 100 days.<br />I thought that this book would be very sweet if I filled out everything up to the wedding/marriage part. However, I think that this book might be a bit hokey if just bought and given to someone blank. However, if you're willing to start filling it out, it gives your companion an interesting way to look at memories and will encourage him/her to fill it out further.<br />I would not suggest getting this book if you are only dating or if you are newly dating: it defines and confines your relationship too much. But this is a great book if you are a couple who are not always together. My fiance lives in England, and we often enjoy sharing memories of our courtship, our vacations, etc. This is a perfect way for your partner to hear your voice and cherish memories when he/she is alone, or when you are unavailable.<br />A good gift for someone/a couple who is romantic, nostalgic, and interested in a little project or creativity.	2002-04-18
US	51895467	R254DI1S6D49R8	0688156819	208495508	The Melancholy Death of Oyster Boy & Other Stories	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A treasure for people with a bit of a dark side	You may be familiar with Tim Burton's directorial work, and you may be familiar with Edward Gorey, but you aren't familiar with this. I came across this book in a little goth store..., and, as a huge Burton fan, snatched it up immediately.<br />If you like Edward Gorey, you'll like this. Especially if you've read all of his stuff and are looking for more of the same. Burton's book is a tiny bit more twisted and oddball than Gorey (if possible), but the illustrations are delightful and extremely talented.<br />This is a very unique book to add to your library.	2002-04-18
US	51895467	R28N22GHCFAQDF	0452281679	512189556	Simply Divine	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great book...for a freebie	Believe it or not, I got this book free in a magazine (in Britain, mags such as Cosmo and Elle give out free gifts like totes and t-shirts w/ every issue). I waited about a year and a half to read it, felt like something like and comic, and picked this up. I was pleasantly surprised. I expected another novel riding on the coattails of Bridget Jones, but this book quickly establishes itself on separate ground. Jane is a great character. There are fabulous comic lines that will make you laugh out loud (even if you read it around midnight, like I did), and there are obscure literary and historical references that elevate the level of the book a little. Yes, some of the situations, names, and events are unbelievable, but I think that this is a FUN novel that the author had FUN writing. It spoofs current events, pop culture, media, and society, and has FUN doing it.	2002-04-09
US	51895467	R27GDOLYS1D83Q	0393045897	501423347	The Book of Love	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A great collection, although a bit thick	This book provides a great collection of love-related essays, poems, and stories, as well as book excerpts. I tried, mistakenly, to read this book from cover to cover and got too bogged down. I think it is great for a reference (I used it to find one of the readings for my civil ceremony wedding), and great to pick up every now and then, open it randomly, and start reading. But, don't try to read it beginning to end!	2002-04-09
US	51895467	R3IE0YUABICRXY	0679761837	59238474	A Natural History Of Love	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A true treasure & a staple of your library	This book is amazing. If you haven't read Ackerman before, I suggest starting with _A Natural History of the Senses_. Then read this book. Ackerman is a very talented writer. Even if the subject isn't entirely interesting, her words and their rhythms are. This subject, however, is very interesting. Ackerman muses on myths (such as Dido) and history (such as Napoleon and Josephine), but also explores instincts and preferences (why women love horses and the influence of pheromones). This book is romantic, historical, sexual, poetic, challenging, and completely beautiful.	2002-04-09
US	51895467	R2HH0S9JGV1QCR	0312280041	821860031	Grange House: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A spooky, romantic, well-studied Victorian tale	I initially picked this book up because it was written by the wife of one of my professors. However, I was happy to find that it was very skillfully written and researched. Also, it is a fascinating, sometimes spooky, sometimes heart-wrenching, and sometimes romantic tale of families, ghosts (of the mental and chain-clanking kind), growing up, and love. Be warned: there are a lot of names and information in this book, and some of them are little tidbits that sort of dwindle into nothing as the book goes on. And some are brought up randomly so you have to leaf back to find the connection. But overall, a great read.	2002-04-08
US	51895467	R3U95NOFUNPOVW	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A great fantasy novel for non-fans	I typically do not like fantasy/science fiction novels, but I really enjoyed this one! The characters are fascinating, and you must...keep...reading in order to find out what happens. The only frustrating thing is getting to the end and finding out you have to read the next one to get some satisfaction. The first 50 pages are somewhat male-oriented, but stick with it and you'll be glad you did.	2001-10-16
US	51895467	RAZQT0YYKTFKW	0312272189	837137898	Fear & Trembling	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Fascinating &amp; humorous view of Japan	I thoroughly enjoyed this book, as a person who has always been fascinated with Eastern (especially Japanese) culture.  This narrative was interesting, including cultural aspects of business, gender, work ethics, manners, and friendship.  It was humorous and brief, an enjoyable and enriching read for a few hours.	2001-06-09
US	51895467	R1UJFKL28QLNXL	0385334885	7705134	The Palace of Tears	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A gorgeous little book	This is a great little story of love, desire, loss, foreign places, and culture. Croutier paints beautiful pictures of every place the book takes the reader.  The prose is vivid and alive, and the characters are vibrant and complex. Each chapter begins with a tiny black and white sketch that just adds to the mystery and eroticism of the book.  This is a fairy tale for adults.  You will want to live in the countries and time period that this book brings alive.	2001-05-27
US	51895467	R2BMDMEDUN28PD	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A hilarious book you'll want to read again and again	This book is hilarious and includes a lot of hilarity and insights that the movie does not contain.  This is a great book for women to read.  You will be saying &quot;Yes, that is it! This is my life!&quot; even if you are no Bridget Jones.  This is a great book for men to read.  Men will learn a lot about the female mind and will enjoy doing it!	2001-05-26
US	51895467	R3SA3Q31VUYBGK	014042346X	919889716	The Penguin Book of Renaissance Verse: 1509-1659 (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	A book for class I would have read for leisure	I was assigned this book in an English Renaissance literature class. This collection provides a fascinating insight into the English Renaissance.  There are selections by the normal poets: Shakespeare, Spenser, etc.  There are also selections by female poets, including Elizabeth I.  I learned so much from this book in terms of literature, culture, and life.  If you are interested in this time period, or in the British Isles, this book is essential!	2001-05-26
US	51895467	RAXM3CXDUG5KQ	0316082511	251907750	The Last Voyage of Somebody the Sailor	Books	1	4	24	N	Y	I couldn't even finish it	I am maniacal about finishing books, but I couldn't bring myself to finish this one. I found it to be full of sexist male fantasies and macho expression. I do NOT think this book can be construed as feminist. The author's pretension and satisfaction with himself showed through brilliantly in his writing. I have found (and the other reviews support this) that mostly men like this book. All of the women I have talked to about it disliked it strongly, if they even finished it. I found it tedious, and too self-satisfied to tolerate.	2001-05-26
US	51895467	R25QXFZNIV2XCA	1878448986	701219721	Hummingbird House	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	A good book from a great person	I had the pleasure of meeting Ms. Henley through my writing program at Northwestern University. She was attentive, intelligent, and curteous. _Hummingbird House_ was my favorite book on this class's reading list. It is touching, informative about a place most Americans are not familiar with, realistic, and passionate. It is a refreshing return to &quot;the story,&quot; contains beautiful descriptions and sensory detail.	2001-05-26
US	51895467	R1LX7FF7ZWUPUF	1579542719	280959148	Partner Yoga: Making Contact for Physical, Emotional, and Spiritual Growth	Books	5	13	14	N	N	We're just beginners	My fiance and I are just beginners at yoga, but we've found that this book is fabulous. It's fun, informative, and a beautiful book. Some of the positions are definitely too hard for beginners, but you're supposed to work up to those. I also sometimes find that it's difficult (if you have an apartment or other small space to work in) to find a big enough space. And although doing yoga outside or on the beach (as the book illustrates and suggests) would be fun, it's not always feasible or practical. But this book still has wonderful information, beautiful pictures, and is a must have for a person who wants to involve their partner or friends in yoga!	2001-05-26
US	51895467	R12OECWJVU3WW3	0670894184	334925003	Back Roads (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Well-written but the back cover lied	This book was well-written, but I was completely mislead by the back cover.  It implied that it was a kind of fun-loving story of struggle and &quot;bumbling heroics&quot;.  Uh-uh.  It was funny at times, but also dark, sad, shocking, and upsetting. Do not think this is a happy book. It is different, but also very traumatizing, even to those of us who have read loads of very traumatizing material. I'm looking forward to her next book.	2001-02-06
