US	51895732	RPAYNG2QZB2SU	0385510454	797048445	The Broker: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Not for serious consideration	Sometimes we want steak, sometimes hotdogs, sometimes Shakespeare. sometimes a ball game. This novel is entertainment, nothing more. Under any in depth analysis the plot simply does not hold up. Motivations are downright missing. So why such big sales, Even a well known writer can't get away with a real stinker. Well this is not a stinker. It is like the gifted magician. We all know you cannot climb up the rope and disappear, and we all know we have been fooled when it seems the fellow in the top-hat and cape does so, but darn it, we like it. It's fun. Thank heaven our politicians are not this venal, our government agencies this inept or lawyers so traitoriously greedy, but let's just suppose they were. <br /> <br />This is an entertainment novel, set in an exotic place - face it how many think of Bologna when Italy is mentioned; would not Pittsburgh or Cleveland be exotic for Italians who think of the U.S. as New York. Grisham has fun with the city, gives us a classic chase as climax,and provides a happy ending. Come to think of it, asking reality of this is like asking for it in \\"The Bank Dick.\\"  Mr. Fields may have missed Bologna, but it was a kick seeing it with Marco. I give it four beach umbrellas as a \\"not think too hard\\" summer read.	2005-08-08
US	51895732	R1F5O886A1O6JK	0743277198	86157417	Crusader's Cross: A Dave Robicheaux Novel (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Robicheaux noir	This is the darkest most brooding of the Robicheaux novels,discounting Electric Mist with Confederate Dead. The different strands of the past, the circumstances of advancing age and personal entanglements all impinge upon Dave as he is called upon to hear a deathbed confession of a college acquiaintance. The dark musings of Burke's character would be almost unbearable were it not for his stylized lyric description which reaches what is almost the edge of the acceptable. (very much like Hemingway almost became self parody in Old Man and the Sea) Beauty and horror exist side by side. Additionally, the action and eccentricity of previous Burke novels are also here. Clearly this is a five star novel, especially for those well acquainted with the author. <br /> <br />This is not to say there are no flaws. The serial killer plot and Robicheaux' personal confrontation with the Chalons family are only coincidentally linked, not organically as Burke often does in his other works. The old gang is gone except for Clete and Helen Soileau, even Batist and the bait shop have disappeared. Jamie, his half brother and Molly Boyle make an appearance, undoubtedly destined for future activity. Burke also calls on us for some suspension of temporal disbelief. Dave speaks about some of the physical consequences of his lifestyle, remembering experiences as a lieutenant in Vietnam, and the reader cannot help but muse that given the dates in the novel he must be in late sixties pushing seventy, a little long in the tooth for some of the rough and tumble.(Same for Clete Purcell) Still, Burke is a master of his chosen corner and certainly worth the time.	2005-08-08
US	51895732	R32LDDE1LARB60	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Explaining the inexplicable	We Americans are accustomed to look at the events and personalities of our Revolution as comparable to those of the golden age of Greece, Augustan Rome or Renaissance Italy or England. How such moments happen in Western history has been a puzzle, clouded in undocumented mists save for the comparatively recent events of 1776 and all that. McCullough using ample detail and annotation demonstrates how much knowledge is available, and in this \\"biography of a year\\" suggests that there is more at work than just the great man or great men aspect of history. <br /> <br />Certainly the focus is on Washington and those about him; we see younger Alexander Hamilton and Henry Knox as untested soldiers while we know of their future importance. Still, what is also important is the sense of an idea to which a sufficient number of minds did cling, a dedication to a cause and country. From Boston through Trenton and Princeton, we readers knowing Valley Forge is yet to come as well as the triumph of Yorktown, see through passages from personal letters, diaries and other documents the mood of both aspiration and despair possessing the common soldier as well as the notables as the year progressed. It has been written that Washington was \\"The Essential Man\\" in the revolution, but this history shows the complexity of that observation, for it was as leader of his army that he was central. His troops seem to have known that and in many ways he embodied the traits of his army, he epitomized the very best of the self reliant, assured, determined character of his people. He was also given to moments of rash behavior and temper, of which he was aware and tried usually with success to control. <br /> <br />McCullough in his clear, narrative style makes this professional and detailed history available to any average reader. Anyone familiar with his works knows what to expect. Uncompromising but readable scholarship, clear but inobtrusive documentation. This is the writing style of the consummateprofessional. He resolves questions and concludes events so that the reader is never left to seek out information elsewhere. Simply a grand book.	2005-07-21
US	51895732	R2KUI9V7U7E04E	0743486560	369346808	Tattoo Blues	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Fielder's Choice	Does Hiassen's political humor draw you, or is it the Dorsey wackiness that grabs your attention? McClelland does a little of each and so I am not sure if anyone is finally thrown out in this West Coast Florida twist up.  Perhaps he has been caught up in the essential tolerance of Ceday Key and forgives even the bad guys. While Largo to Key West have an overgrowth of kooks and undergrowth of condo developers, Cedar Key has few  such folk and so the author invents some characters and plots which do not quite fit into the \\"Clam Capitol of America.\\" This makes for a sort of silly plot centered around a scheme to develop a casino on the historic dock. There is a feel the author picked up some superficial bits and pieces, but missed much of the essential Cedar Key life. Additionally the novel misses the real sub-tropical beauty of this old seaport. Certainly there is anough grist on the island for an author, yet I confess I may be holding him to a standard of \\"didn't do.\\" All in all I would read this if I had it to do over, but I would not take it up as enthusiasticaly as before.	2005-07-11
US	51895732	R3IQQ0155PT1X7	1566635055	148129111	Life at the Bottom: The Worldview That Makes the Underclass	Books	5	19	21	N	N	What a Contrast	The clear, reasoned prose of this collection of essays contrasts so sharply with the illogical basis of the thinking it exposes that one is likely to miss the formal excellence of these essays. Dalrymple starts with a point he wishes to elucidate and then moves by means of vividly expressed examples presented in an understandable language in an orderly fashion to demonstrate the prima facie truth of that pointin day to day experience. We read along and say, \\"Yes.I've seen that,\\" or \\" of course, that's why that happens.\\" Yet he returns over and again to what is really the same point: We choose our actions. And this, too, makes these fine essays : they say something: no excuses! Crime, addiction, squalor are conscious choices, not inevitable results of poverty. One need but consider the spic and span homes of empoverished neighborhoods in the depression era to understand that the filth of our center cities is not inevitable. The clean-up of Times Square can work elsewhere. So, too, filth in language need not be the norm. We know pornography when we see it and should not tolerate it. Perhaps we can make sure \\"No child is left behind\\" by saying \\"Turn off the television and do your homework.\\" Simple truths. These essays give us a guide which we and our leaders should apply more frequently to policy decisions.	2005-07-11
US	51895732	R3SUV9MQZLZFYV	0345475445	304111465	Mr. Lucky: A Novel of High Stakes	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Best of Series	In series novels there comes a time when the writer either makes or breaks. This novel is IT and if you have been following the Tony Valentine series and are considering this book - BUY IT.  This is fast paced, action, wit, and just enough of the \\"Gizmo\\" (dishonest gambling) to keep you reading all night.  <br /> <br />The dual plot (Tony and Jerry) is well developed and could be a little more interrelated, but Jerry finally becomes more than a cardboard cut out. In this novel he is in contact with his father learning the family casino detective trade by way of trial and error and with some long distance help from dad while Tony is concerned with the main plot. Enough is said in other reviews concerning the role of \\"Mr. Lucky\\" and it is a shame to tell much, but the implications of  big cheating is big money and bigger schemes and Swain plays this well.  <br /> <br />The added attraction in this novel is the consideration, not in any preaching fashion, but reflectively of the moral and ethical implications of actions: is it proper to simply cut an addicted gambler loose, what is the role of the community in developing a gambling culture, what harm comes to innocents? And in a modern society, how does all this lead to violence? Swain does not preach, but like Tony he knows cause and effect. Come to think of it, logical analysis is very much in the center of his writing.	2005-05-29
US	51895732	R1N2W8HYY9UGKM	0743477316	751849605	Oyster Blues: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Comedy with a plot	The Florida crazy novel moves from the Keys, up the coast to the big bend. I am not sure if the panhandle can sustain the required level of craziness found in Key West, but after all there are enough islands in the area and with Talahassee and Gainsville nearby a big enough supply of characters to render up rogues and clowns. There is a strong whiff of Dorsey here, but with a bit more plot and maybe not as much bitterness. I guess this style of novel will be around until all of Florida is walled, like Key West in the last fifteen years, by seasonal condos for the rich and beautiful. While the main plot is the ecological disaster of a foreign species in the Bay (see Hall and White) the ultimate goal is real estate speculation. Not so far from reality when one considers the half million run up in asking price for fish shacks on Cedar Key or St George over ten years and the exile of locals up the rivers. <br /> <br />Some of the language games are a lot of fun. \\"Quiet \\" Quinones who cannot shut up except when El Jeffe commands \\"Quiet!\\" or the supposed murder victim: \\"Champion Rooster.\\" The Cuban coffee shops, the Miami street scenes and mangrove vets all give a picture of the multi cultural Florida that has to stimulate wit.  Not a serious book, but fit for an afternoon or two on a beach chair.	2005-05-29
US	51895732	R37IA1ZEEIM7Q	039915244X	812622062	Dead of Night (Doc Ford)	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Fun ??? with Ford.	A couple installments ago Doc Ford seemed to be drifting. I was worried. Would I lose my favorite west coast of Florida , marina, fishcamp, biologist hero? Well here's the answer. The Doc is really back and in his role as a biologist is central to the plot. A reader never gets the feeling that something is being dragged in, that events are being delayed. We all know that temptation to skip to the end. Well-- it's not here in this novel. What a great collection of baddies: Human and biological. I'll leave the humans for later, but the biologicals are nasty memories from my undergraduate days in invertebrate zoology lab. \\"For heaven's sake, don't cut yourself on a broken slide!\\" The central beastie being \\"Dracunculus medenensis\\" :a nasty nematode aka - the fiery serpent. And a few actual serpents, cobras, mambas, etc., are thrown in as well. Then there are the ex-KGBers, replete with needles and needle shooting shotguns, and other events to build a romp: a great shark rescue, an aquatic version of a car chase, and for Tomlinson a catfish attack that makes moste males wish for an electric catfish instead.    The simplicity of the land development scheme- infest Florida, drive down the land prices and then cure the infestation and surf off to wealth on the tidal wave of profit, is the sort of device which allows the other events to happen. It even motivates them. Which is more than anyone has yet figured out about pirhanas, walking catfish and hissing roaches turned loose in the wilds of this country which probably prompts the scheme. If you like the Doc, read this one.	2005-04-17
US	51895732	RS0G1NGOJRFSH	0375405917	107666840	A Good Year	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Not the best introduction to Mayle's charm.	I always thought this author had a sort of appeal best classified as \\"charm.\\" Not really adventure, not highly literary, but certainly literate and enjoyable.  Here he is a little flat: however, this little novel could provide a pleasant read in an airport or during a short trip. I might even think of it as a pool (but not a beach) book. It's a white Zanfandel to his previous big reds. If you liked his two south of France books, you will probably get a whiff of thyme and rosemary here, but not the full flood of aromas. After the Cabernet, do you really want Merlot? If you have not read the previous works, go there first, they were better vintages, and you can develop the taste..	2005-04-17
US	51895732	R1G5FKS4JWZWFJ	0425195449	893493496	Naked Prey (Lucas Davenport, No. 14)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Something to Consider	By this late date the other reviews have covered almost all of the plot of this exciting and cleverly plotted novel; however, a central question which makes the plot work is the drug smuggling in the novel. The author puts everyone in a particularly difficult moral position, AND I MEAN EVERYONE, characters, readers and even author. The group of religious women who are moving the trucks back and forth across the Canadian border are also moving prescription drugs for empoverished terminally and chronically ill patients.  As one says, \\"We are not smuggling drugs, we are smuggling prices.\\" <br /> <br />Confronted by the greed-inspired kidnappings and murders and their link to addictive drugs, we become aware of lives saved and suffering prevented by another illegality- not shown but implied in the novel. An honest reader must ask, \\"At what scale does murder and control of drugs become not murder but business and profits?\\" Sandford has done a service by presenting this major public policy question in fictional form.	2005-03-19
US	51895732	RYVKUGK28BGWF	0312283628	300670880	Liars & Thieves	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	I like thrillers and I like this book	I give this one five stars, not as a masterpiece but because it does what it set out to do and does it so well. If you are a thriller/page-turner reader, this book is for you. Especially if you like complicated, conspiratorial, fast moving , shoot-em-up style thrillers. You can read about the plot in other reviews. Yeah, some of it is not well motivated, almost silly in the circumstantial sense- that's not the point. This is a go, go, go read. In many ways it's a reverse play of that classic: \\"Three Days of the Condor\\" <br /> <br />For example, fellow on the edge of spy business goes to country safe house, finds everyone dead and rogues just leaving, has to run for his life, eventually he will cruise the suburbs of D.C., visit the shore and come to N.Y.C.  We all can see the reversed geographic progression.  Now in this novel the familial entanglements motivating the crimes are enough to make even an ancient Greek or Roman comedy writer pause. But this is not the real world. It's a fictional, thriller world desigened for effect. It is about entertainment, and this book does that.	2005-03-19
US	51895732	R440G4H7F9SCR	0060563443	124726879	Skeleton Man (Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee Novels)	Books	4	8	12	N	Y	Something odd is happening here	The other reviews give excellent guidance into the readability, plot and position of this short novel in Hillerman's opus. I would like to propose some ideas about what the author is up to here and maybe argue some more for his position as a great American novelist working in a longstanding literary tradition, for despite his choice of serialized characters in action stories there is a special unappreciated quality to Hillerman's work. I am going to use some language and approach of a literary scholar, so if this turns you off, drop out here. <br /> <br />This is the first of his novels to use the frame story device. Joe Leaphorn and friends at a cop diner are storytelling between the coffee and doughnuts.  Watch out!!! Frame stories regularly encode mythos. We soon run into a story set around the rim of the Grand Canyon that turns upon consequences of an airline crash over the Canyon which leads through a descent of characters into the Canyon, to the ultimate resolution of events that happened before the crash. Sound familiar. You bet. For example, we have seen similar skillful weaving in Conrad's Heart of Darkness. And here are the same literary devices. <br /> <br />Hillerman is working with a brilliant blending of Native American and traditional Greco-Christian mythologies. Over and over the vastness of the cavern is stressed. The individual journies in the cavern by innocents and their trades with the \\"hermit\\", rewarded with the diamonds that capture the blue of the sky, lead to ascents and eventually knowledge. As the story progresses, resolution of the chaos this knowledge creates demands that the characters venture into the deep, sacred parts of the canyon. One corrupt private detective comes to the rim, but does not enter and so survives his shooting. Knowledge is wrapped in the \\"Skeleton Man's\\" teaching - do not fear death, truth is literally hidden in a bone. It is the sacred relic and the diamonds merely lights to adorn it. The Canyon is an underworld, peopled with its own creatures and having its own rules. The shift of the story focus from male characters above the Canyon to female characters inside the Canyon implies a mother earth theme. Those who journey to this underworld with a just cause, safely return, those in balance survive. Bernadette is drawn by the beauty of the Canyon and its place in her memory. Bernie and the pink snake respect each other and pass by.  Out of water, she is helped by the old woman. Eventually the 'male' rain, entering the Canyon through the slot, washes away her murderous captor, loaded down with his bag of diamonds. Joanna, clutching her father's bone survives. The wicked perish from lifegiving water. The eventual return to the surface and Jim and Bernie's planned marriage, with the token of the single diamond preserved from the shrine, establishes the cycle of the regenerated order. <br /> <br />When you read this fine little novel you will see all this and more. Yeah it's really there. But it is also a thriller. <br />	2005-03-13
US	51895732	R64JXU5QXU5O5	0385504284	202497183	The Forgotten Man: A Novel (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Crais gets it right!!!	I you have been following the Elvis Cole series, read this book. If you are new to the series, read this book and then carefully choose past books.  In any extended series there comes a time when the established characters, the central figure and the \\"gizmo\\" all come together with the writer's particular quirks to produce a great, page turning , hour eating piece of fiction. Turn off the T.V. and read. This is it.  Crais makes the most of his split plot device (as he made the worst in VooDoo River), and he handles a personal relationship problem, Cole's interactions Lucy vs Starkey in a fashion which is both more realistic and more truthful than the Travis M compulsory first chapter disappearance of the lady saved in the last installment. The plotting, clues dialogue all have a sense of a writer at the top of form.	2005-03-13
US	51895732	R1MRV19366U3OP	0399152075	780503006	By Order of the President (A Presidential Agent Novel)	Books	4	0	2	N	Y	News with a plot	In this new series Griffin does for contemporary events what he did for military history; gives it a human face. Griffin enters the era of the international terrorist and those men who contestthis new enemy. Now we must grant that his humanity lives at a rather more rarified level, or floor of the hotel, than most of us mere mortals: kind of directors' circle rather than third floor near the elevator. With such wealth also comes skill in language, arts and technical areas. That's ok! Since Homer, heroes have epitomized the apex of their society. Odyssus , Aeneas, Arthur were not common men. There's been a lot of debate about this and while there are moral consequences in an age of democracy, it may be a literary truth that it is hard to plot around the ordinary.         Griffin clearly belongs to the 'great man' school of historical fiction.  In his WWII series he accomplished the noble task of \\"Teaching with delight.\\" And with all respect to the Dogfaces and the \\"Joes\\" who actually won the war, he made some great stories about high level goings-on and grand strategy. In some ways this poses a problem, for the nature of terrorism is that it can happen so quickly at such a micro scale that such macro responses are helpless to combat its effect.           In this new series he promises to do the same. Be forewarned. This is the same Griffin. He repeats his jokes - we might miss them. He waxes eloquent over technical aspects and devices. He treats authority with an easy familiarity mixed with awe which reminds one of the one liner :\\"Class warefare is impossible here. Americans do not hate the rich, they want to be the rich.\\" Still, just as the Corps Series helped us brush up on historical events, this new series promises to bring us a clearer vision of our world.	2005-03-13
US	51895732	RXKVN8K6254QR	0393050572	948966865	Will in the World: How Shakespeare Became Shakespeare	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Should I spend my time reading this book?	\\"If you value life, value time , for that is what life is made of.\\" And that is the question of this book. Who should read it and why. Greenblatt takes us on a speculative tour: What can be inferred about Shakespeare the person from the scant records and the abundant texts. Most of it has been said before, discussed before , accepted and dismissed before. The joy of a book such as this is the wonderful sense of \\"WHAT IF?\\" or \\"THAT WOULD EXPLAIN IT.\\" The problem is that there is no proof. Thus scholars dispute and uninformed folks are puzzled. <br /> <br />So. How about you? Are you a \\"The witches in Macbeth give me some insight into how people might see a bargain with the devil when shown the possibility of a thane who achieves absolute power.\\" OR Are you a\\"\\"While there are authoritative proofs of Shakespeare's source of Macbeth, they do not mention witches and we cannot be sure of his source.\\" <br /> <br />If you are the second type, one who wants proof and gets annoyed by logical fallacies, stay away. There is a whif of \\"could this be the long lost....\\" about this book. It will raise your blood pressure. Go to the trusty Riverside or read Harrison's quasi Victorian introductions and enjoy the brave Scots in the original. If, however, you are a \\"What iffer,\\" if you enjoyed the in jokes in Shakespeare In Love without an apoplectic gasp at the premise, then enjoy, enjoy.	2005-03-13
US	51895732	RG1KL8ZLT9X2F	0312271808	468560032	Forests of the Night: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Mesmerizing	Like the draw of dark water or the sway of a viper this novel demands attention. This is a dark novel, even by Hall's standards. All the characters are inexorably tied to the past and this past is bruising them and their loved ones. Lies, madness, revenge, corruption racisim, criminality, ambition, professional rivalry: Hall fills his novel with the ugly aspects of human behavior. From the Red Road at the edge of Coral Gables to Route 19 pasing through Cherokee, North CArolina, a complex manhunt for a wrongly accused Native American bomber and his unbalance step-sister, carried on by his newly informed lawyer father and policewoman wife and the local F.B.I. is manipulated by a local political clan which has been exacting revenge on familial bloodlines in the Cherokee Nation. Bodies thrown into ravines, patricide and death by savage dogs become part of this thriller. There is an ugly fascination here, a skillful shift from our familiar paths with Hall. Well worth the time.	2005-03-13
US	51895732	R1666LIZ09J6E9	0961915544	980712462	Charlotte's Story: A Florida Keys Diary 1934 & 1935	Books	5	11	11	N	N	For Keys Fiction Readers	While seeking some new Keys Fiction I had the good fortune to have this gem of personal prose proposed by a good bookseller. Normally I like fiction, but I was desperate for a book to read beside the Gulf, and what a read it was. This is the Florida of legend, the roots of Hall, White and Corcoran can be found here.  The difference is this is real. Islands with one owner, bootleggers, rum running, customs men, body dumping, good old boys and gals, boat \\"lighteners,\\" conch lassoing, lime tree tending, chowder cooking and endless beach combing for demi-johns, mahogany, cedar, planks and boxes. All told in simple, straight-forward prose. What I am trying to put into words is that this is an enjoyable adventure in reality for those of us who like the fictional adventure of the contemporary Keys writers. Oh. and the wicked developers are not there yet, but the sense of their impending arrival is clearly here in the devil may care attitude many express who live in this wonderful piece of history.	2005-02-08
US	51895732	R3SG41HLAZJKH1	0938566822	451359937	Beautiful Wreckage: New & Selected Poems	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	The bruise to the heart	All these years after Vietnam Ehrhart cannot let go.  Yes he goes other places: love of wife and child, memories of childhood friends and the ever unresolved situation with parents. Work, and lack of it, career and setbacks are here too, also the awareness of age as friends suffer heart attacks, as the sense of \\"last time\\" invades visits, as old places of the heart vanish. All of it presented with Erhart's deceptive simplicity, his matter of fact voice. But Vietnam, oh Vietnam. He sucks the broken tooth of remorse. Reveals the horror lurking outside the circle of his personal fire. Suddenly it reaches in, a paw touching the present: Guatamala, Bagdad, or just a street corner in Philadelphia. And he condemns it looking, hoping for justice, like a child who has been told that last lie which reveals truth. He eschews excuse for himself as an adult who could have said that one soothing word that can no longer be said. One who looks upon his thoughtless childhood cruelties and rues.  He cannot help touching the sore spot. He cannot forgive himself, even though others forgive him. And so for any reader swimming along in the poetic mind this is an examination of conscience. <br /> <br />Ehrhart is not an academic poet, nor does his skill sparkle. Not as given to delicate images as fellow Vietnam poet Balaban, he nevertheless has some interesting pieces of wordwork in this anthology of often narrative lyrics. His diction is the diction of polite discourse. His familiarity with traditional poetry shows at times in congruent images and themes.  For me, this is the work of an authentic poet. It shows why we need poetry.	2004-10-26
US	51895732	R3LLQFGKIC2HKD	0345435648	672395112	Indigo Slam (The Elvis Cole)	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Not the best, not the worst	Finally got to this one in the Elvis Cole series; although I do not know why it was passed over both by starting with Voodoo River, then recent entries and finally jumping on the back trail, a familiar process when I discover an intersting writer. This leads to treasures but also disappointments. This novel is neither. It has a solid plot, although I think one of the final twists is really unnecessary for the conclusion and may be a gratuitous slap at Feds. Pike is simply too shadowy and it is clear that Lucy's ex-husband is being set up for a role in a sequel. As ususal Crais has a strong sense of place, smooth construction and an eventful plot. I rather like some of the wit and joking of Cole and enjoy his irreverent attitude, but I do think the writer pushes it just a bit. The novel does not get bogged down in the technicalities of detecting, lawyering, or policing - a problem in many \\"thrillers\\" today. All in all, a good read for a rainy Sunday.	2004-10-19
US	51895732	RS9G7P1LXNYAK	0399148744	300579884	Bone Key	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Deal Ages Well	Hate to say it, but I like this one best in the series. One day while I was looking for a poolside book in a Keys bookstore the owner asked me if I had read Bone Key, I said I liked the other Deal novels and he said, you might want this one . Good thing it was a nice couple of days, because as I slowly roasted and quickly turned pages I got near enough to the end that when I left it behind as I deplaned, I had finished the whole thing. And it is a whole thing. This is a big book and it has some great suspense.    Now, that Ivan has passed, we can probably accept the hurricane from nowhere that is key to the plot. How the celler gets dug in Key West is beyond me, but the whole idea of a celler full of a premium year of fine French wine is  a treasure hunt goal worthy of the greatest of the Galleon gold finders.  It is most obviously a sum that would motivate a wicked condo developer ( of just the sort who is always trying to co-opt Deal. The small time sting artist, getting caught up in something too big, the crooked cops, the crossed paths of an old love - all the elements of a Keys thriller are here. Even some good Jazz and restaurant scenes.  Now if only someone will come up with a novel based on a stash of pre-embargo Cuban tobacco...... HUmm could be a plot there.     Oh, by the way. Driscoll is somewhere else, this time and Deal partners with his foreman Vern Straight. Janice is mentioned, but not present. Makes for an interesting love affair/trap? Oh well, if you are a Deal fan, you'll like this book. If you have not yet met Deal you just might click with this one.  Some people dismiss this as fantasy, but honestly, once we accept a nice guy Keys developer, what is there to complain about there.	2004-10-11
US	51895732	R2D7CUHJGFTXVF	1590580125	344245716	Book Deal (John Deal Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Slightly Different Deal	I ran into deal about a year ago in a bookshop on Marathon Key. The owner knows his Florida mystery authors and  tipped me to the Deal series. I have since been working the series and came across Book Deal recently. (apparently it is a reissue of a novel previously published under a differen title. but I could not quite figure this out.) Deal, as everyone who reads the series knows, is the former policeman son of developer father who has (maybe) killed himself. He has taken over the almost bankrupt family business and has begun to establish himself as an honest restorer/developer of historicaly important architectural structures. (Usually the occupation of the bad guy in South Florida novels, and with good reason if you've seen most of their work in the Keys.) Deal's misadventures have led to attempts on the life of his wife, Janice, as well as himself, and she suffers the anomie of severely harmed victims. Thus these novels constantly return to the theme of the adventures of separated but not single Deal and his ex-partner and buddy now P.I. Driscoll, who regularly encounter ladies with a variety of  motivations.In one novel an old girlfriend, in another a Anti-Castro cuban, and so forth. <br /> <br />     This novel opens as Deal encounters Janice who is working in an old-fashioned bookstore owned by his friend Arch in one of those rambling strip stores along Red Road or Bird Drive on the edge of Coral Gables. The machinations of a large corporation to build a Superstore across the street eventually leads to a string of murders in which one character's association with another takes Deal and Janice across town (to the Capone suite in the renovated Biltmore) to across the country ( a computerized cathedral in Omaha - where Arch's sister worked as a programmer.)  One bit of fun is the Ma and Pa hit team.  - We never do see the outcome, but when Pa, celebrating a hit by playing golf for the first time, is constantly harassed by a pushy player just as his putt sinks, he leaves with a driver but returns empty handed.- And his frumpy wife , the kick boxer, is a fright.  <br /> <br />     The conclusion, in a blizzard in Omaha, is enough to make anyone accustomed to Winter escapes to forgive the Sunshine state for any and all hurricanes. A great, suspensful conclusion. And by the way, Deal and Janice's (maybe) reconciliation scene in the kitchen about midway through the book is a hot, comic bit of erotica. All in all, this book has a bit of everything and in nice proportion. If you like the Deal series,you'll really like this one. <br />	2004-09-30
US	51895732	R3EV1Q8ZG1PFWX	0345463838	654078703	Grift Sense (Tony Valentine)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	First and so far the best of series	Working backward through Swain's Tony Valentine series, I finally got to Grift Sense.Well, I would not have read all four if the latest was not worth the time, but thinking on it I've got to say I like this one best. Swain gets just enough into the casino life (if you are winning, you're cheating)for a somewhat jaded Valentine to stick to his fixed ideas despite the eternal hope that pervades even the most cynical casino employee and owner types. We do not go down the highly technical lanes of blackjack odds or slot machine mechanics which Swain threatens in some other novels. Also, the cast of characters, Mabel, Nick the frequently remarried Casino owner and nee'r do well son Gerry, are all here.<br /><br />The conclusion, which takes place in the swirl of a Vegas fight night, is a fine piece of action. Events are logical, thrilling and satisfying to those of us who like to guess an ending or unsuspected rogue but really get upset when we see them coming ten chapters ahead of time.	2004-09-30
US	51895732	R1UTMEB7IMVMGF	0515128635	531181286	Tripwire (Jack Reacher, No. 3)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	You will want to skip ahead	The accumulated reviews of this novel tell you all you need to know about character and plot: Jack (NMN) Reacher, bumming about Key West, without advance knowledge, revives a youthful/mutual attraction and inherits a home near West Point from the woman's father, his former C.O. This leads into a tangle of interlocking plots as a presumed KIA involved in corporate schemes and a group of MIA scamsters dreaw Reacher and his companion into a puzzle solution while a brutal kidnapping/multiple murder plot develops. Much of the mystery for Reacher is the large scale/small scale villiany which envelops him: just who is the bad guy. This is what the ultimate solution discovers.<br /><br />Just looking at it tells you that this is a very thick book. What is worth knowing is that the writing - detail and description- sometimes gets in the way of the development of plot. After a while I started jumping ahead a paragraph or two ( no, I didn't spoil it by going to the end, but.....I advise you not to do that either, the wait is worth it). Perhaps a bit of judicious trimming would improve what is a very good read. Certainly worth a few bucks.	2004-09-20
US	51895732	R19YTV5QK1PKZS	0333654323	683595751	A History of Ireland (Essential Histories)	Books	4	28	30	N	N	A names and dates history	This is a useful addition to a bookshelf as well as a quick read over the complex history of Ireland. If you want to quickly place the \\"Wild Geese\\" or Wolf Tone or Cromwell in a historical context it will prove an invaluable tool. Furthermore, the prose is readable and not bogged down with a mass of professional notes. I think that's the key, information is presented in the style and detail of the professional historian but without all the scholarly apparatus. The scholar ,seeking proper reference or in depth character and motivation, must look elsewhere. Be advised that there is weighting toward the nineteenth and twentieth century. There is some discussion of the famine and emigration, but only as part of the historical progression. For that and diaspora study The Great Shame is a better bet. Would I buy this book again? Yes. Why? it is a valuable reference tool. Does it captivate me as some histories do? No. Best advice I can give: decide why you might want it.	2004-09-07
US	51895732	R1VIC46RIZ2L3M	0385418493	610658517	How the Irish Saved Civilization: The Untold Story of Ireland's Heroic Role From the Fall of Rome to the Rise of Medieval Europe (The Hinges of History)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	This is on my  MUST READ list.	I am happy to see that people are still reading Cahill after all these years. As a writer he is frequently enjoyable and frequently infuriation. From time to time he is capable of glaring factual blunders, yet his total perception is striking. Forests and trees, I guess. All this by way of introduction to this study of Irish Monasticism and its effects on learning. This is a period and place outside the mainstrteam of European development. (We often forget that Celtic monks, practing a Christianity akin to thatof the Eastern Orthodox Church existed in Ireland, Scotland and parts of England when Augustine came on his mission to Canterbury.) Some artistic and icnographic, not to mention theological, elements of this culture are rather remeniscent of Coptic style. Ireland provided a seed bed to preserve and germinate the tender plants of the classical legacy during this vital period, before the Viking experience. This is popular history and much is arguable still, but in an era of silly history such as that generated by \\"codes\\" and so forth, it is enjoyable to read some speculative history which might, just might, provide some answers. So in conclusion, while this is not a work for experts, it certainly is a work for those who like to read.	2004-09-07
US	51895732	R282IQJHN38R4K	0198661584	479177645	The Oxford Companion to Irish Literature	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Serious tool for serious readers	The vast and growing field of Irish Literature can be a puzzle even to those  who have spent a lifetime studying literature. Perhaps no literature/culture in the world is like that of Ireland. Consider the complexity of the Irish language and the English language and the Latin language all co-existing and interacting for centuries. The mingled mythologies and literary traditions, the images and allusions, interact in a fashion that puzzles but also delights. A little example is the mythological implications of something as simple as the swan:appearing in early mythology as the enchanted children of Lir, swans become symbols of abandonment, betrayal, timelessness, beauty and , LO! Yeats lifts them to the level of poetic inspiration.  <br /> <br />This is not a soft or easy book to read. Its list of contributos has many recognizable scholarly names. They treat their subjects as scholars do. It is helpful in cross-referencing and giving Gaelic/English equivalents to names and titles. Even relatively minor writers have entries. However,  note that the rich contemporary literary life of Ireland( the last ten years) requires some updating. Also, this is not a history or geography. There are some good ones available and it is useful to keep them on a nearby shelf, so as to understand strange reversals of fortune such as the role of ancient Ulster as seat of Irish identity and rebellion. I think a listing of significant events would be useful, but the roll of Irish rebellions and  causes may be overwhelming. So too, I would probably find some use for a thorough guide to pronunciation, just so I can hear the terms in my head. <br /> <br />One of the strongest aspects of the text is that it includes the entire scope of writers: Irish who wrote in Irish, Irish who wrote in English, English living in Ireland, Irish living in England and even Irish writing in French. Rebels, West Britons, Ascendancy, and even anonymous, all get their seat at this table. I found myself, after a bit of referencing, sitting and reading forty or fifty pages at a time. That, too, is a matter of personal taste, but this is a subject one may find much to muse upon.	2004-09-04
US	51895732	R197EY497L9K2	0399151818	340127390	Tampa Burn	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Don't Start This Book If You Need To Get Up Early	This novel is not a great place to start with White, probably Sanibel Flats or Heat Islands are better doors to the series. Do not get me wrong, it is not a bad book, just very complicated. I guess you have to be a Doc Ford fan, but if you are this one will both grab you and resolve much about our hero. The plot comes bouncing from Central/South America to Dinkens Bay, across the Glades by way of the Tamiami Trail and the aptly named Alley and through the back canals surrounding Tampa Bay. There is a reprise of a Tucker Gattrell adventure and a passle of \\"Carnys\\" thrown in for good measure. We Ford fans have been on a number of adventures, some very clever, one or two throw-aways, but this one will scare you. I do not think I am giving anything away by now. We know the bad guy in this one burns people. A nasty piece of work. He is a terrorist on a different level: a personal nightmare character. And he has kidnapped Doc's son. Some of the psychology here is frightening. Both of the villian, Incendario, and those who use him. Meanwhile there is some other using going on as well. Doc's ex-love, Pilar, and her motives, until now hinted at in the series, are revealed. And we find about some other using by that user to excess-Tomlinson. Doc's government connections are also after their payback. If you like the series, you just might read cover to cover in one sitting.	2004-08-29
US	51895732	R3KNV2GJQ65V1Q	0743245431	829040287	In the Moon of Red Ponies: A Novel	Books	3	21	22	N	Y	I go Robicheaux	Billy Bob Holland is back, ghost partner and all, but now we also have Native American visions and presences. Maybe this worked better in In The Electric Mist With Confederate Dead because bayou swamps are more conducive to visions than the clear air of the mountains. For avid Burke readers, this may mark an important artistic move by the author. He may be attempting the sort of shift into psychological probing of the character as happened in the Robicheaux series as in Mist, Dave became more than just a two fisted, alcoholic ex-New Orleans cop, and Burke showed us his own and his character's history and attachment to the culture of Louisiana. I did not really like that work, but looking back I see how Burke was making a shift from merely popular to what is a Faulknerian view. Although I cannot recall which novel has the line to the effect \\"When I hear that song [Jolie Blonde] I could cry for the culture that is disappearing,\\" it certainly places that series in important company. <br /> <br />This is by way of excuse for  a much lower opinion of Moon of Red Ponies. Now, I have read Burke's earlier work. Rifle toting, mountain loggers and cowboys. Out of work and out of Jail, or in. So I see he might be trying to develop his ex-Ranger hero along the lines of Dave Robicheaux; he hasn't done it yet.  No sympathetic Alafair , no Baptiste, no colleagues with some understanding, just Billy Bob and his hot tempered wife against the world. <br /> <br />If you are reading this review to decide on spending the full retail, I say go ahead if you are an experienced Burke reader and want to understand his entire corpus. If you are just starting to read Burke, however, go back and get a copy of Jolie Blon's Bounce, Cadillac Jukebox or even Last Car to Elysian Fields or maybe White Doves, hold off on this one until you are a fan.	2004-08-29
US	51895732	R2S0W7KB9Z73UK	0345463447	8078750	Funny Money (Tony Valentine)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Turn off the T.V.	Most of the other reviews will tell you what goes on in this novel. If you are like me, you are hunting something in the mystery line to fill up a few hours, so here's my take on why you should spend the few dollars this book will cost you. This is entertainment, pure and simple. A good plot, a dash of humor, likeable characters and just a dash of the real world, or as much as can be expected in the Never-Never-Land of casinos, all delivered in straight forward prose. Some writers can be counted on for the long evenings when nothing but mindless sit coms clutter the airwaves. It's then that a couple of bucks and a visit to my local bookstore seems most attractive. I have added Swain to my  \\"Buy This Author's Books\\" list.	2004-08-27
US	51895732	R3AM65QEI8SSD8	0345463269	118965360	Loaded Dice (Swain, James)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	You might get hooked	Swain includes as one of his characters in this a compulsive gambler, always looking for the repeat of the one big win. I'm always digging through the back volumes of series novels looking for the winner.I guess many of us are compulsive readers who do such hunting; I, for one got hooked on Sucker Bet, the second in the Tony Valentine series. Here was a promising, fresh new series, and not much of a backtrail if I wanted to get to know a little about the character's previous exploits - only Grift Sense. Looking at Loaded Dice in light of the previous novels, it's clear that Swain has not reached the goalposts, but he still has an entertaining run ahead of him, and maybe the blockbuster. Past characters are building nicely and he has avoided some of the dangers of serial repetitive plotting. Some readers may find the terrorist plot a bit of a stretch, others who are only into the casino process aspects may find those a little less in the fore ( maybe the other novels have removed some of the novelty from Valentine's solving the scams), and then there is Gerry, Valentine's neer-do-well son working as his father's not too able assistant, and who promises again to reform. Most parents recognize the scene. Will anything come of it? Well the next installment might reveal what kind of skill Swain has in escaping this paternal trap. <br />All of this is by way of saying that Loaded Dice is a good step along the path of a long running series which promises a lot of entertainment and a bit of insight. Then too I guess I sort of identify with a sixty year old, semi retired hero.  I' ve become a little dulled  by the never aging Florida heroes. This is fun reading, spend a buck or two and enjoy. Just watch out, you might end up reading all four of these.	2004-08-27
US	51895732	RKI1T8R980FB0	0385495544	856042771	Sailing the Wine-Dark Sea: Why the Greeks Matter (Hinges of History)	Books	3	14	16	N	N	A Spotty Book	I walked into Cahill's classroom when \\"How The Irish Saved Civilization\\" was wowing the Academic community. And I must say I was impressed by the lecture. It confirmed some suspicions I had about fifth/sixth century cultural communications betwen East and West. I guess I was ready for it like a well read graduate student in a serious seminar. <br />Wine Dark Seas is no such classroom (as some other reviewers point out there are factual errors as well as errors of taste.) Yet, despite these flaws, and they are flaws, this book, I think, best compares to the trendy professor teaching a Humanities One course. Forget the \\"Hinges of History \\" title, this is not HISTORY. It might serve as a quick refresher to the traditional liberal arts majors, but its main purpose is a general education elective for bus/ag/ed/engineering majors, not graduate level, or even advanced undergrad Classics or History majors.  <br />Every teacher of Art/Lit/Classics has been asked at one time, \\"Why do we have to read this junk?\\" And we answer, \\"Because it matters.\\" Cahill shows \\"why the Greeks mattered\\" and continue to do so. In seven core chapters and with illustrations the book details the Greeks shaping influence on warfare, poetics, society, politics, philosophy, aesthetics and theology.  These terms themselves illustrate the point. For his chapter titles, Cahill popularizes : \\"How to fight.\\" \\"How to feel.\\" etc. The book never bogs down in the abtruse potentially lurking in this topic. The pronouncing glossary of names and a chronology are helpful and for the vast majority, the Greek Alphabet is a practical necessity. And while allowing for the breezy vulgarity, I would be happy if this book rather than some video games would occupy some of my son's hours. <br />	2004-08-27
US	51895732	R1E7BZY187MA27	0345461754	500157568	Sucker Bet	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Tony's getting better	Continuing character mysteries must improve or they fizzle. Readers want continuity in a character, but gradual revelation and growth are also necessary, still the author must avoid the trap of constantly repeating plot patterns. When the author reveals his character a bit at a time, building upon events and clues dropped in previous works the mystery novel becomes a true pleasure. For example, other Florida based characters, in the novels of White and HAll, demonstrate constancy and change. The reader is in a familiar place but on the edge of something new, empathy and fear neatly balanced. The other side is the excess of formula that became Travis McGee. Swain must watch this trap for his principal. <br /> <br />Tony Valentine, retired Atlantic City police detective, living on Florida's west coast, having spent his  career solving casino scams, finds himself recently widowed and has opened a consulting business assisting with difficult to solve cheats. This is an opportunity for exotic settings, different levels of violence/threat and perhaps just a touch too much of the procedure mystery. Certainly, the concentration on blackjack and slots is noticable. Some ventures into roulette and craps seem to promise future adventures. Also the mechanics of the casino operation: cameras, security, count rooms, cashing in and out, etc. are also directions in which the author promises to give us future adventures. <br /> <br />This novel begins with a nice piece of misdirection, Tony and his girlfriend Kat ( meet her in his previous novel Funny Money) are part of a wrestling promo. Events at the Micanopy casino (also on the horizon in the previous novel)will soon interfere. What is the scam and who is really involved will take up the rest of the book. Son Gerry -\\"Son grow up. Get a Job,\\"and Gerry's girlfriend Yolanda as well as Tony's neighbor MAbel all reappear. No trusty sidekick yet. Given the Micanopys, the Miami/Everglades setting provides for some local thrillers on thebeach and in the swamp. There is a nice twist, as the car-bomb in Funny Money which has carried off a couple thugs suggests to some Miami mobsters that Tony is \\"connected\\" and thus must be respected. <br /> <br />This is a fast read. Plot is tighter and better controlled than Funny Money. There is wit and thrills and more than a touch of the believable. having preferred Doc Ford\\"s relationships to Travis McGee's (Randy White vs John MacDonald) I hope, as the series develops that we do not get into predictable \\"significant other \\" dumpin  used to keep romantic plots alive. Somehow a well balanced group of characters lends a sense of community .	2004-08-09
US	51895732	R17AGBBRR9FWE2	1879941406	509273125	Some Experiences of an Irish R.M.	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Something for dyspepsia.	Has the world of sensitivity soured you a bit. Me too. These stories are fun to read. Especially fun in an age of political correctness and/or professional nationalism. These ascendancy authors see their way of life fading and reconcile themselves to it with all the grace of good losers who are still happy to have played the game. With that attitude in mind they approach the schemes of Flurry Knox to best either Major Yeates or Lady Knox as certainly humorous if not always completely justifiable. The conflict of the perfectly rational approach to living of the Irish encountering the multitude of rules and regulations of an empire( in one story a group of moonshiners has set up in the unused portion of a vast barn attached to Yeates' house)reminds any reader of the inexorable sense of justice which a child deploys when confronted with a different bedtime from parents.\\"Well since Dad has to work harder at his job than I do at school, he should go to bed earlier.\\" <br />Making their own class the (...) of the jokes (eccentric Lady Knox might well find a role in \\"Kind Hearts and Coronets\\") takes a good deal from the sting of charges of creation of stage \\"Irishmen.\\" The fact that each story is complete but part of a continuing series makes for put down, pick up reading. This is a grand book for a rainy afternoon's read, commute reading, or sitting in a lobby or airport. The only problem is when you start laughing outloud, folks will start to stare.	2004-03-24
US	51895732	R1F7ZVPAZ1JWBZ	156478181X	618405348	At Swim-Two-Birds (Irish Literature)	Books	5	11	16	N	Y	Postmodern before postmodern was cool!!	Like the country music to which I allude, this book is not for all. It is  something for the serious reader of experimental fiction. Note, I do not call it a novel. But, nor do I think of Finnegan's Wake as a novel. Flann O'Brien takes us through levels of levels which demonstrate the onionlike quality of what we call fiction. What/where is the real world? Fiction obviously comments on &quot;real&quot; events, for examlple Huck Finn tell us about the consequences of slavery. And after all in &quot;The Agamemmnon&quot; we hear the consequences of leaving the wife at home and concentrating on work. And the legends of Vulcan and Venus are a soap opera.<br />Still, when a character in a book creates characters who interact with him where is the line of reality? Borges gives us men who dream up other men. Woody Allen has charcters spending lazy afternoons at the Ritz with Madame Bovary, or Kugelmassing around the French countryside. Thus when a never get out of bed college student starts creating a world of imagination, the reader is in for an O'Brienesque spin.<br />It is obvious, I think, that I enjoyed this book, but I must include a warning. This is not a typical, standard, straight line plotted piece of fiction. It is not mere entertainment. If you want a tale of early twentieth century Dublin life, stick to Dubliners.	2004-03-24
US	51895732	R1UYQ3D1WNR2H5	0399150595	295571531	Havana Run: A John Deal Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	How did I miss this one???	Somehow I just picked this novel up last month. Do you read every Florida Keys Mystery/Action you can get? I do and I have a scale of favorites. Corcoran, Hall, and White in that order plus a few lesser lights. Of course in the well known writers' works the standard wicked crew, developers, pols and tee shirt moguls plus the mob have become a bit too wearing on the beleagured &quot;conchs.&quot; Thus it is a pleasure to read the adventures of John Deal and his Dealco development corporation, dedicated to making a buck but not vast sums of bucks by doing condos right. (If there is any way to do them right.)<br />In Bone Key, Deal and sidekick fell into the Key West scene as potential developers of a &quot;martello&quot; tower centered resort. His inherited and endangered development corporation was just recovering from the suicide of his less environmentally dedicated father's suspicious &quot;dealings.&quot;(Yep, puns appear now and then.) This novel continues the tale and expands upon it, bringing into the picture his father's early ties to Cuba and  plans for post CAstro development.<br />Who these developers may be (off shore banks and all) their ties to on island dissidents and off island exiles and the U.S. Government's desires to snoop on everyone (gives new meaning to the U.S. Interest Section) is the heart of this book. Given current state of boat traffic between the Keys and Cuba,rumors, speculation over future development in Cuba and the general murkiness of ownership of those luxury villas popping up along island edges, there's  more than a bit of reality here.<br />Then too, it's kind of fun to see a hero developer. Talk to anyone in the Keys and they will tell you that's kind of like the tooth fairy. It would be nice.<br />Finally, this novel reads a bit faster than Bone Key. I thought there was just a bit too much repetitious complication in that earlier one. (Read it during a long airport wait, so I might misjudge it a bit. It does give some background which helps here.)	2004-01-21
US	51895732	R3TVKS926HJ8QM	0316105848	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	4	3	5	N	N	&quot;I am what I am&quot;	To borrow a phrase from the times. This book is simply a good way to read about stories that we need to hear. It is what it is and need not be judged as something it does not pretend to be. We of the baby boom generation grew up with silent fathers. Not much of this was ever discussed within our hearing. Those men believed that what happened in the Pacific should stay there. I know the complaints against popularized history and implied irreverence that are raised against this text by the professionals have some merit, but this book is not for that group. Nor is it just feel good, salute the flag patriotism, of the post Desert Storm era. It speaks about the costs , personal, moral and social, of war. Not Vietnam, but &quot;the Good War.&quot; And it shows us that war is not a sanitary sport with umpires calling fouls. Real people, real innocents inevitably suffer. Real soldiers suffer. In an age of personalized agonies on television (sattelite reporters imbedded in combat, showing the pain of the individual) we are apt to either over personalize to the degree that we forget the great atrocities our troops fight against or to become desensitized to pain and suffering in a sort of body-count numbness. This book runs counter to that. It shows the actuality of heroism and it shows the horror of the situations which engendered it. Some of that horror so bad that it was classified, even in an age of propeganda. All in all, it is an easy read, referenced but not academic, but it is a disturbing read. It shows what people are capable of doing. And I must say, I have much more respect for all the &quot;boys&quot; of 41 -46.	2003-12-09
US	51895732	R26C8UQFM4G3E5	044652154X	933426195	Mortal Sins	Books	3	3	6	N	Y	Can you say Kate Chopin?	Class and racial mixtures, open infidelity and hidden affairs are the underplot of what is not really a murder mystery. This is a sociological investigation of the fluctuating web of old families, political power, inheritance -of property and personality- and passions. Of course these themes were touched upon in Chopin's story about racial identity a hundred years ago.with much less wordiness.  <br />If you have the time, it is a tour of dusty mansions, cities of the dead, and places outsiders do not go, but it is a long read. And languid.	2003-12-09
US	51895732	R2QS6DAZG7IY9W	0684183889	740200493	The Roman Emperors: A Biographical Guide to the Rulers of Imperial Rome 31 BC-AD 476	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Practical reference	Anyone having reason to look for information on the emperors from Agustus through Romulus , and including the tetrarchy should get this book. Excellent maps and plans, geneological tables, reproduction of a portrait bust or coin per emperor  along with the biographical sketches of one to four pages ( a few longer). The text is arranged  in sequence, table of contents giving a guide to individual emperors. Also included is a key to  arcane Latin terms such as &quot;Comes Sacrarum Largitionum&quot;: essentially the financial minister controlling mints and currency and in charge of purchase of military uniforms. And an index of Latin authors and index of maps and charts rounds out the collection. This is a useful book for anyone sorting out the classical period, for coin collectors, history buffs, etc. A great addition to a personal reference library	2003-11-09
US	51895732	R3EG5VE6E2LOLL	0525947612	850019131	Everyone Dies: A Kevin Kerney Novel (Kevin Kerney Novels)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Series in full stride	Being familiar with the genre of serial mysteries and having read a number of novels in this series, I think this work is pretty much at the apex of what a series can do. McGarrity knows his characters and where they fit in a complex relationship pattern. But then so must his readers. In this novel we see events that are rooted in a complex past.(For example, coming cold to the novel, a reader would be unfamiliar with Kearney's son, Clayton Istee, whose mother and Kearney were lovers in college. Born while an unsuspecting Kearney was serving in Vietnam, Clayton is resolving feelings of abandonment.)McGarrity handles this as well as possible which is why I consider this his best presentation so far, but extra-textal information is a limitation.<br />The novel is primarily a police procedural novel, although the writer uses a sort of fractured narrative - not quite &quot;meanwhile back at the ranch&quot;- as he advances the plot scattered over three or four sites. (NO UNITY OF PLACE HERE) As his characters cell-phone, radio and fax each other, the culprit lurks and listens.  He is a shadowy presence, without deep  psychological development. Nor does one find the kind of powerful descriptive passages of a writer like James Lee Burke, after all this is a similar but slightly different approach having a continuing character like Robicheaux but with emphasis on procedure.<br />Some aspects of this novel suggest a couple directions the writer may consider. Certainly Clayton Istee may be one path. We have seen how Hillerman moved from Leaphorn to Chee. Kearney's M.P. wife, Sara, now mother  but still Lt Colonel (due for promotion) is a possible developmental chain.  And Kearney's new ranch - with its nearby wild country - might be a scene of a reprise with the south of the border drug lords he has tangled with before.  How long McGarrity can sustain this level and these characters is anyone's guess, but if you are not on board yet, come on.	2003-11-03
US	51895732	R1N2Y0611Y03JV	0743245423	732518745	Last Car to Elysian Fields: A Dave Robicheaux Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	READ THIS BOOK	If you have never read a novel by James Lee Burke, this is the one to start with.  If you have read every one of his works (including the early rancher novels) read this one now. He really brings it all to this production.  The descriptive prose sparkles, the plot develops with  skillful ironic,  situational twists of a master writer's mind, characters are fully realized  yet harmonious with readers' previous knowledge of them. This is perhaps the grand summation of what Burke has been doing with Dave Robicheaux,; there is a maturity to the character that fills in those spaces that were once gnawed out of him by disappointment of youthful desires for justice. In a curious way, Dave could always see his own flaws more than those of other characters, perhaps that is the cross an alcoholic bears, but in this novel he is also aware of those of Clete, Helen and even the new character Fr. Jimmie Dolan. Especially interesting is Coll, the IRA gunman turned hitman who suffers from wounded conscience; what a great foil to the self serving oil plutocrat in the golf club who shares locker facilities with the workers. Having read everything of Burke's I could get my eyes on, it is my opinion that this is far and away his finest effort.	2003-11-01
US	51895732	R30U0QIBLU91CT	0385504268	354796806	The Last Detective (Elvis Cole Series)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Have to admit he's getting better.	Would I buy this book? Yes.  Why? I came in with and admit I struggled through Voodoo River. This one is just a lot better. Crais had a tough time setting up the Elvis Cole/ Lucy Chernier relationship the former novel, subsequent work seems to have made the writer comfortable with the device, and he works it into the plot structure (I don't think it gives anything away to reveal that by the end of the novel we learn that Lucy's ex is a good/bad guy.  Could he reprise?) Joe Pike and Elvis Cole also develop as characters via  flashbacks to childhood, wartime and other experiences entangled with plot events .  In all of this Crais' prose is clear and driving toward the conclusion.  There is little wasted space in this novel. No philosophizing a la Tom Clancy over nature of BAD/bad guys nor confrontation by forces of good with suchlike. ( I thought that ground was covered in &quot;The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence&quot;) Cole and Pike smite the wicked.  Curiously, however, as Cole becomes more human he loses some charm. The wisecracking,rogue &quot;world's greatest detective&quot; is now more the world's toughest detective. This may be as far as this can go without Crais losing the character, but for the time being, ENJOY.	2003-11-01
US	51895732	R3KRXL940QIVMB	B00005W2R5	882237083	The Horizon Book of Ancient Rome	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Concise and clear.	In an age when Latin has become rare and history before the Clinton era is befogged, this book serves a real purpose. In fewer than three hundred pages it details the history of Rome (city and empire) from the Etruscan period through the republic, empire and founding of Constantinople to the fall under Romulus Augustulus. The book concludes with a chapter on the legacy of Rome. Certainly this is a fine addition to any general library, written at an educated popular level and concluding with a short bibliography (four of Grant's detailed works are listed, which shows the level or reference). The illustrations and computer generated views of the city at the height of power are added bonuses (bonae?). I might have some use for an absent index at some time, but I am sure the books in the biblio would have more detail. Great book with which to enter the subject, refresh memory or just sit and read.	2003-11-01
US	51895732	R2SI9Q47WRMGXR	1585672734	675082326	A Few Bloody Noses: The Realities and Mythologies of the American Revolution	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Some things to think about here.	This is not a light book, nor is it the objective historical record.  It has a point of view, perhaps one might say two or three points of view. Some of it is old hat.  The discussion of Lexington and Concord brings to mind Bill Cosby's routine about flipping the coin at the beginning of a game, &quot;The colonials win the toss. They get to stand begind rocks and trees and shoot. The British must wear red uniforms, beat drums and march in rows.&quot; And when we get to Guilford Courtyard, the author would have us believe that Cornwallis' action of firing on his own men reveals his tactical skill, not his contempt for the pressed, enlisted and mercenary troops he commanded.<BR>     Still it is a useful book. Clearly it reveals that the experience of Vietnam is not an isolated fact. Determined locals, controlling vast territory (or having an available sanctuary) - the Carolina swamps , for example- can play havoc on a professional amy with doctrines of combat, rules of engagement, and extended supply lines. Especially when that local force has the element of time.  And this brings up public opinion at home. The text has a wealth of documents from the period demonstrating a situation not unlike that which we experieced in the sixties and seventies. The slow turn of public opinion, the mounting cost in men, money and morale. It was all there then. <BR>     The final point, one worth our consideration in an era of disputed vote counts and court interference is the idea that the radicalism of the American Revolution was hijacked by the aristocratic and moneyed classes of this nation via such devices as the ecectoral college. A sort of &quot;we had to destroy this revolution to save it&quot; philosophy. Not a really new idea, but well put here. I am not so sure this book makes as much apology for the colonial system as other reviews imply, but it is after all the work of the losing side ( a rare thing in history), but maybe it's the work of the other winning side.	2003-10-20
US	51895732	R3A24PGKPT85KR	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Hannibal ad Portem	Perhaps the fact that summer's lease has run its course and there is no beach demand has brought about this mechanical monster. Maybe the elephantine thudding of Red Rabbit is in the author's mind.  Certainly the limits of plausibility are reached as this meanwhile back at the spy shop piece proceeds. Students of the novel will recognize an intrusive narrative voice as soporific as Fielding's. Mr. Clancy atempts to deal with the moral/ethical potential of free enterprise engaging in  pragmatic, extra-legal terminations with extreme prejudice by means of the conversations of two talkey twins, an Marine and a FBI. Cousin Jack Ryan, recent Georgetown graduate, gets thrown in as a sort of lignappe and perhaps rationale for the annoying habit of Latin zingers showing up now and then. One wonders, do the Jebbies still instruct their wards in Latin at Georgetown? Ah well, the magister will still lay down his text. And like such school marms, he gets on a tear; this week's virtue is \\"Patience.\\" How many times can a discussion of the difficulty of acquiring, employing and appreciating said virtue reappear in one book. I lost count, you will too if you do not put it down. At times impatience, too, is a virtue.	2003-10-20
US	51895732	R3OQTTXK2MPMQR	0786889055	817260381	Voodoo River (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	TWO, Two, Two plots in one.	Who names these things anyway? Yes there's a river, but where's the &quot;voodoo?&quot; Maybe it's in Louisiana itself, but certainly not in this novel's plots. Pretty much standard detective fiction stuff. Elvis Cole - world's greatest private detective- reappears in Cajun country hunting an unknown birth mother for a T.V. star. Little rough play, chases, silent down-home folks, and a touch of blackmail and murder.  Elvis meets local lawyer and etufee. Case solved. But what dark deeds have led to local crawfish magnate's probable motive for murder. Plot two crawls out of the swamp: alien smuggling and big city hoods. Worry not. Gators and snappers will not triumph. Not Crais' best, but worth carrying onto the plane for the long ride from a cold climate to a destination in the Pelican State. Just that I am a bit upset by the false flag.	2003-08-20
US	51895732	R1NXO88XJT6USZ	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	How Much Time Do You Have?	There is a very good reason this book took so much time: It is long. And then you really have to know a bit about the previous adventures.  Have you read the earlier books? If you are a young reader, I would advocate reading them first. Do not rely on the films. Not all characters ( nearly headless Nick or Doby the emancipated Elf) appear fully realized in the films. Invisibility cloaks, griffins and owl messengers ( AND OCCASIONAL SCREAMERS: PRIVATE SCHOOL ALUMNI WILL RECOGNIZE THE LETTER GENRE) are also important. Then too we all remember those especially nasty teachers/coaches/prefects, and the fun of empty corridors at night!<BR>Yes this is more Potter fun; and given Harry's age (terrible early teens and undifferentiated hostility) it also strikes a parent as having a special level of truth. But in this case the school authority figures really are as dull, \\"whatever,\\" as they seem to most teen/pre-teen  students.<BR>If you have children this age (12-14) or if you are in this age bracket read this book. Maybe read the earlier ones too. It is a great mix of the fun and reality of growing up.	2003-08-07
US	51895732	R2FTTSW8BEY871	044021355X	527437793	Mean High Tide	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Walking Catfish, Grass Carp, Zebra Mussels, etc.	Invasive exotic species, get the picture? Eventually so does Thorn. A breeding program to develop a species of \\"red\\" tilapia under the theory that Americans will eat anything that's \\"red,\\" not so far fetched now that we know about red dye in farmed salmon, threatens to unleash a flood of unwelcome visitors into the glades watershed. The story is a bit heavy handed, but after all so is Thorn.<BR>I discovered a used copy of this novel in a bookstore in the Keys a few years ago while hunting a poolside \\"read.\\"  Almost got as red as the tilapia as I forgot the time in the sun and since have hunted down the entire series. A rough, tough south Florida adventure novel, and while not Hall's best it's worth the time if you like this sort of fiction. I do.	2003-08-02
US	51895732	R29EUJI5SHRP6N	0061031410	737127896	Courting Trouble (Rosato & Associates Series)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Oh the possibilities	I am puzzled by this novel.  We have a good character, a nice plot twist, a great setting...but.  Anne Murphy, bright and beautiful young lawyer, recently moved to Philadelphia from the west coast is  presumed victim of a homicide, and like Mark Twain, reports of her demise are premature.  The plot revolves around an axis of her resurrected self and law firm partners attempting to bag the murderer. While this goes on, she learns a bit about the art of personal relationships. That's a valuable character twist. And there is a plot &quot;sting.&quot; It's fun. Still, the author can be disappointing. The use of upscale brand labels in the first few chapters comes close to today's movies. And there is just a bit too much self doubt in the partners of her well educated, Philadelphia, female law firm's partners. I guess the disappointment is that Anne is almost a &quot;mensch.&quot; Oh, well. I think this author might really have it. I'll read another one. But please no more attack of the brand names.	2003-07-08
US	51895732	R1ALSM1QQ7HDPS	0060194448	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Any Hillerman is better than no Hillerman	To be very honest, this is not my favorite novel in the series. Hillerman is moving his characters along in the progression of their lives. Of that I have no complaint, it's just that I liked some of the earlier novels a bit more ( Blessing Way, Dark Wind, and even Sacred Clowns come to mind). The underlying plot device is also a bit off-putting. Looking back on it after reading the next book in the series, I can see that the author is working on a transition for both Leaphorn and Chee. Still, I would not start to read this fine author with this book. It does not display the beauty of the land or the culture of his native American characters as stunningly as early works.	2003-07-07
US	51895732	R2WC1PXIUQR6GV	1564780910	911325049	The Poor Mouth: Poor Mouth: A Bad Story about the Hard Life (Irish Literature)	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	Not for Nationalists	This book is an inside joke, and a classic at that. It is a grand send up of professional Irish (both at home and abroad). As example, consider a book written in Gaelic making sport of the Gaelic movement by means of a Gaelic festival. ( In ourland of the professional ethnic festival, this might serve as an effective antidote to &quot;Irish&quot; nights and &quot;Scots weekends.&quot;) If you are inclined to romanticize villages of the old sod dominated by pigs, mud, rain and potatos, avoid this work. If you want a great classic of the jaundiced eye school of literature, read this book. By the way, some of the fun lies in the many parodies of Irish literary works in the assorted chapters; knowledge of the genre helps.	2003-07-07
US	51895732	R2YMQ94TWHPPRO	0061031542	471094057	Orange Crush (Serge Storms)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	A personal view.	I look at these reviews as a way to help those who have not had the chance to read the book decide if spending a few bucks should go toward one book or another. Thus it becomes a question of what someone might like to read. I am fond of tropical mystery stories and crime novels ( my hometown set records for snowfall over the last two years). I even like some of the &quot;Florida crazy&quot; work of Hiassen, but Dorsey is a bit beyond me. He reminds me of the guy in high-school who carried a joke on throughout the entire day. Some fellows loved it and laughed until they cried. I often thought, &quot;Yea, that's a laugh, but now we have things to do.&quot;<br />Dorsey's novels operate according to this same premise, and the characters, plots and events are farce. If you like over the top, (and are not politically offended) you'll love this one but if you are like some friends who see no humor in contemporary cartoons, then you might want something different. <br />Rereading this, I see how generic it is, but I have not yet found a Dorsey novel which breaks the pattern. Your choice.	2003-06-26
US	51895732	R42L8CX1F4XKR	006019443X	496102452	The Sinister Pig	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Why such diverging reviews?	This novel demonstrates the spare, elegant prose and tight plot that characterizes Hillerman at his best - as in Blessing Way or Dark Wind. Then too, the characters we have come to love, Jim Chee, Joe Leaphorn and even the interloping Cowboy Dashee as well as Jim Chee's latest heartbreaker, Bernie Manuelito, are center stage. So why the grousing. Perhaps Hillerman fans expected more fireworks after the two most recent clunkers. Or maybe, with the same cast in place, readers expected Hillerman to continue his exploration and exposition of the cultures of the native peoples of the southwest. But as Hillerman moves his action further south, he leaves much of the Navaho ethos behind, and the distinct customs of a people fade as the writer brings the Sonoran landscape to the foreground. Tellingly it is described as even more vacant, more of a vacuum of living things than the &quot;Four Corners&quot; setting of earlier novels. Bernie, now with the Customs Patrol carries extra plastic jugs of water in her vehicle, and she will need them as she discovers thirsty illegals stranded in the desert. Principal characters getting lost because of undistinguishable landmarks ( unthinkable on Navaho land ) leads  more than once to important plot turns. Readers similarly may be exploring new and unfamiliar territory which is a bit more uncomfortable because of the presence of the familiar in different roles. If this is not classic Hillerman, it is still very good Hillerman, a differently focused Hillerman, and an entertaining read.	2003-06-18
US	51895732	R1TK480R3C0MDT	0312271786	91127869	Off the Chart: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	As tangled as a mangrove	How do you like your Thorn? I like him fine and I like Hall's novels. So why the four stars and not five? Because this novel does not drive to a conclusion with quite the force of his other works. It has very complex plots (that's right PLOTS with an \\"S\\"). Now these are related and they are topical. Piracy, of both commercial vessels and the increasingly large and expensive fleet of pleasure craft is a serious and undiscussed problem outside the south Florida area. And the computer/cell phones, a vital part of high tech bucaneering, play a role in a kidnapping involving Sugarman's daughter.  But so does birdwatching.<br />A brother-sister pirate duo is at the core of events. Both are influenced by myth, but each turns to the life for a different reason. The brother merely extends his land based piracy; the sister, a woman from Thorn's past, flies the jolly roger with her new lover.  Chance meetings of important characters in restaurants (well, Monroe county is actually a small place in resident population), stray dogs, Largo-Miami commutes, fifteen foot stilt construction, roaring route one traffic, and even the strange web of law enforcement agencies of the Keys is all there. And Alexandra Rafferty, crime photographer, and her retired police officer/Alzheimer's suffering father have moved in with Thorn. <br />Sometimes less is more. Of course whoever posts the signs behind the counter at Seven Mile Grill or the decorating gang at Captain Tony's clearly don't believe that. Complicated as conch chowder, this one. Keys style.	2003-06-16
US	51895732	R2HW5B4MVQLIQ5	0312979754	927148968	The Green-Eyed Hurricane	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Key to the Series	If you are interested in plot, the professional reviews give the essential information, but if you have just discovered Martin Hegwood and enjoy mystery/detective novels consider this book as your key to the character of Jack Delmas.  Sometimes, as in this case, the author's first novel (Big Easy Backroad) does not give the full motivation behind a character. To really find out what is going on, one must explore a bit. Frequently I find a series I like, either through a friend or luck, and then start working the back trail. As I do so, I often find a book such as this novel that has it all, plot, motivation, interesting detail. If you are new to Martin Hegwood and Jack Delmas, and you like what you have read, you owe yourself this one.	2003-06-08
US	51895732	R2Q73VL5N6NTSH	0312291272	40454572	Octopus Alibi	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	A Key West Mystery	Of all the major &quot;Keys&quot; writers, Corcoran seems least frequent in publication, and this pays off in well written novels, or at least fast moving novels.  He really is fun to read. Additionally, if you are &quot;into&quot; Key West, he's your writer. While there are actually two trips up and down to Miami, and a couple of &quot;off island&quot; forays, this book is centered in and plays on the ambience of that &quot;last place in America.&quot; Alex Rutledge, Corcoran's photographer hero, tools up and down Simonton on his Cannondale or strolls the sidewalks of Duval, avoiding the overflow from Sloppy Joe's, dodging into Captain Tony's around the corner for an early beer. Certainly the Key West life style. There are many other little treasures: remembered sidewalk restaurants, cascades of bouganvillia on corners, the ocean mist, happy hour at Hog's Breath, regularly painted empty buildings. These are the observations of someone who knows the streets over time.<br />Dirty deeds in this novel, surprise, are linked to real estate development and illegal immigration.  The two plots work, but  are not systematically linked to each other.  These are mingled with the unraveling of a relationship between Rutledge and his &quot;roomie&quot; Teresa, that not unfrequent disaster that comes about when two decide to live as one and abandon the freedom of separate apartments. As the novel drew to a close, I had the feeling that there were three distinct stories, all joined at Alex Rutledge. Still, both mystery plots are exciting, and enough to keep anyone reading the novel awake an extra hour. The romance ends, as is common in &quot;Keys&quot; novels with a promise of future solace.<br />For those who remember the days of clearing the pier of ships for sunset, or &quot;tank&quot; island (before the &quot;condofying&quot; of the island perimeter) wise contemporaries who bought Conch cottages for a song seem just a little long in the tooth. Such folk, also, have to be in their mid to late fifties and for we less lucky mortals self-knowledge forms plausability questions. One bit of K.W. zaniness, which someone eventually will seriously propose is a developer's Malory Square Dome with recorded projected sunsets to allow tourists to view the ten best in history. No mention of a guaranteed green flash, however.	2003-06-08
US	51895732	R13TQD046OIUHL	0887480217	357164169	Thomas and Beulah (Carnegie Mellon Poetry Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Must Read	This is a major achievement by one of America's finest poets. It has been characterized as a story of an African-American family, but it is much more than that, it is the unfolding of the human heart like a bright poppy into a full bloom and then the sad falling away of the petals. I have regularly returned to this book, and always find it rewarding.	2003-06-05
US	51895732	RXAG7L4VLC82R	0684849569	185008673	The War Against Boys: How Misguided Feminism Is Harming Our Young Men	Books	5	11	20	N	Y	Still a telling work	I am happy to see that people are still commenting on this book after a number of years. I have shared it with a number of friends of various persuasions and get any number of thoughtful comments. If nothing else, Sommers, suggests that we can all make mistakes, even when we have the best intentions, and perhaps even more so when we espouse a political cause. Social scientists need to be held to account for their data, and she asks questions about much of its validity. She asks how can we better educate boys. Perhaps the greatest unanswered question to which this book led me was a policy question on how much of the traditional gender roles must we preserve and what should we attempt to modify. Putting it another way ,  &quot;What's wrong with boys being boys?&quot; And I mean that seriously as in: &quot;What's wrong with girls being girls is that they passively set their sights too low.&quot; And we are led to agree with a final implication is that all children, boys and girls, deserve our best efforts.	2003-06-05
US	51895732	R1S9WG5Q9HNAKY	0393321258	137736683	Under Cover of Daylight	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Keys People: READ THIS BOOK	I haunt the bookstores for good novels pertaining to the Keys and only recently did this important work of Hall's become available. Although this is where it all starts with Thorn - great character background and motivational set up - it is also a fine read. Would you believe, greedy developers willing to bend the law and squeeze the little guys out for obscene profit: a lack of concern for the character and individualism of Keys communities, condos at any costs? Somehow the book seems  relevant today, and when the characters repeatedly stress they are not against progress but somewhere we must draw a line we hear the same complex emotions that are at the heart of every development discussion today, twenty years after the original publication. All this and a great Thorn style plot. Perfect for those rainy/windy days when the bonefish are shying away or the lobsters are not in season.	2003-05-31
US	51895732	R16DQ2TRNVWQMT	0399150587	622454572	Everglades (Doc Ford)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Doc Ford Rebuilt	Just as Doc goes through the process of recovery from failures in the previous adventure (Twelve Mile Limit) so the author seems in the process of recovering his hero.  As the novel progresses, Doc has a growing awareness of his physical limitations and the effects of depression. Gradually he works his way through these problems while solving a mystery in familiar surroundings. This novel is built around the use of a cult as a front for development in the everglades, including but not limited to casino gambling.  Doc Ford gets back to his roots in the sea of grass with a childhood friend whose husband has disappeared, the offspring of Tucker Gatrell's sidekick, Joe Egret, and old pal Tomlinson, whose undergraduate musings on an acid influenced philosophy paper have been posted and become an internet phenomenon.<br />White too has trimmed down. He plays his strong characters and has eliminated much of the annoying &quot;black helicopter&quot; paranoia of his recent novels. While there is still a lot of violence, but perhaps not as abrasive as in Twelve Mile Limit. I do, however, hope that the coda of a Nicaragua trip might come to an end here. As usual White could probably cut some of the repetition, but sometimes his pictures are right on, as in his account of the disorientating effect of airboats or the case of a fine description of the buzzard trees along the old Tamiami Trail. All in all, it's a good three day read.	2003-05-31
US	51895732	R1AAC87OG78J26	0316154601	239093791	Lost Light	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A new incarnation for Harry Bosch	Now retired, Harry becomes a private eye.  Well not really. He was last seen leaving the Cathedral of \\"The Blue Religion\\" carrying his prayerbook of unresolved cases and has been called back to a particularly troublesome one by the pleas of a paralyzed former cop. This case begins to unravel, as we eventually learn, as a result of pure chance and a computer program catching the anomaly. In the process terrorists, rogue federal agents, good feds (maybe), police politics, the West Coast club scene, the movie industry(I'll pay fifty thousand up front to see the script),insurance company interests and Harry's ex wife become entangled. The solution is satisfying and logical and the final twist provides a sense that there are future plans for Harry. Could he be moving to Nevada like so many retired Californians? I guess we'll know in ten months or so. But until then, if you like Harry, you'll love this one.	2003-05-31
US	51895732	RXGVOLI523IG0	0446611611	817062475	City of Bones (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A sense of placement	Connelly seems to be tying up loose ends in this novel ( the paperback teaser for his next shows why)with its sense of career completion. Harry makes a point of saying he is past the pension gateway, and the time span of the case - twenty year old bones- gives us a sense of time having passed. It's been a long time since Harry returned from Vietnam, which also comes up in the novel. Then too there is the finality of statements made by a number of the characters - the words one cannot take back- and a new road may be beckoning.<br />The plot turns on the tale the bones tell and the urban sprawl of Southern California which transforms snake infested canyons into subdevelopments and former wilderness into neighborhood back lots. As the city comes to find the bones, so this novel rambles out of the city in a number of directions, playing upon the theme of scattering of the past and the detectives' task of reassembling it. The double turn of the ending is nicely done.  (I'm not really giving it away, when the case seems resolved and you are only half way through the novels sizeable heft you know complications are coming). This is a good read for any detective novel fan and well worth the money.	2003-05-05
US	51895732	RCZOK0OTC3S3B	0767912357	574332407	Ciao, America!: An Italian Discovers the U.S.	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A pleasant side table book	There are some books which are destined for one chapter at a time reads: waiting for the school bus to come, for the half hour between lunch and dentist, time after work and before the evening news. Beats fifty-four chanels and nothing on, but it's not great, compelling page turning prose. That's what you'll find here.  Not too shocking, not too sharp, and not a lot of garlic in the sauce.<br />Where the author is perhaps most telling is in the shared yet differing Italian/American institutions: commercial bureaucrats, ie.the phone company, communion in Catholic Churches, domestic architecture/drapery. Here he is as perceptive as witty, which earns forgiveness for Yanks /Brits pointers. We know 'em already. And please, no more discussions of &quot;OK.&quot;<br />The author's suffering with the arctic nature of Washington supermarkets and theatres is understandable, but to some of us the appealing point may  be  nostalgia for the un-airconditioned forties and fifties when anyone who could left D.C. during July and August. Nice to recall those days of politicos on vacation. They caused a lot less trouble in ten months than twelve.	2003-04-23
US	51895732	R1UP52P9PW1JAD	1890768103	595723068	Behind Eclaire's Doors: An Eclaire Mystery (Eclaire Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	1	2	4	N	Y	No more bignets please.	I love New Orleans, spent many a happy hour sitting in Cafe du Monde munching and sipping and watching the styles go by, but....I do not think I ever want to see another recipe or fashion description in a novel again. Kind of how I felt about cotton candy after spending a summer spinning it at a park. This is formula writing at its most predictable. Event, outfit, meal. Outfit, meal, event. You get the picture. This stretches out the murder plot which is cluttered with a romantic plot and cutsey remarks at a level even we male pigs would consider inappropriate in an upscale beauty spa. Where yat? Not here.	2003-04-23
US	51895732	R2PBFAM2BWYLTC	0312280963	774986176	Jackpot Bay: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Coastal Fun	If you are a Hegwood fan, come on, read this book.  It is a bit slower moving than his other novels, but the usual Hegwood cast of characters is  here.  This time at a Casino music spectacular. And the insurance companies get stung.  And there is some pretty good misdirection. And the untangling of the plot will grab you. And ,yes, you can figure it out - almost- but I will not spoil the fun. Guess what I like about Hegwood is that there are clues to the solution ,and so far he seems to play fair in letting his readers speculate about the conclusion.	2003-04-16
US	51895732	R1EJWPRANM6I7L	0451203607	192801376	The Judas Judge (Kevin Kerney Novels)	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Good read, not great read	Reading along the back trail, I find McGarrity's novels entertaining and worth the effort, but I have become convinced that his newer efforts are great improvements.  Yes I would tell myself to read The Judas Judge, but.....Perhaps the framework of familial dirty laundry on the part of the title character also takes some of the spice out of this novel. I don't really want to complain too much, but I also find the bad guys pathetic rather than evil. A reader can only take so many psycho-wimps, wreaking havoc because of their thwarted childhood development. Guess I liked Othello because I just like watch Iago types. Sometimes(especially in novels) out and out evil has a role.	2003-04-16
US	51895732	R3PY37X297NI4U	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	WOW !!!	John Grisham needs no praise.  We all know his work. Yet this novel is something of an completely different order from previous work. What The Great Gatsby is for the WWI era and the twenties, this novel is for WWII & Korean war and the fifties. Grisham brilliantly paints the transformation of American society.In our daily intercourse we have forgotten the familial and civic ties of small family farms and a life with minimal possessions. The nickel coke, the dime matinee, the evening baseball game on the radio were the treats of life. A can of tomatoes may have cost only a dime, but it was worth canning them at home as well as other vegetables. A dime meant something. How many people depended on gardens to live? How many wore feedsack dresses? When was the last time any of us patched an innertube? When was credit something between customer and shipkeeper, carefully entered in a big black ledger book?<br />The world has greatly changed and this novel records what was once there, but like all great novels in its assertion of the particular it becomes universal. People had very little. Perhaps a change of clothes, two pairs of shoes. No closets full, no electronic marvels, no refrigerators and freezers and nearby supermarkets to fill them. Rural America, in Arkansas or Pennsylvania, Ohio or Missisippi was a way of life, now gone, and what we are today is a result of that change both for better and worse.	2003-04-16
US	51895732	R3A7U5G6QTYCMU	0451410440	853305752	Under the Color of Law (Kevin Kerney)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	An afternoon well spent	I opened the package and read through to the end of the novel. It is a good Kevin Kearney novel, but not the best.  But what's a fellow to do when there is precious little else available until the summer books hit the stands.  This novel shows the value of looking at other/older  works by an author; it also demonstrates what the critics mean by growth. McGarrity is indeed getting better as he works out his character . Later installments have demonstrated an interesting extension of personality threads that show up as ideas teasing his mind in this novel. I am a bit off-put by the &quot;black helicopter&quot; paranoia, but perhaps that's just part of the general world view of the 2001-02 era.	2003-04-01
US	51895732	R13JG2TGEBKJHF	0773524169	347520282	So Obstinately Loyal: James Moody, 1744-1809	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Loyalists?Patriots? Who is what?	This is a very readable scholarly book about Captain James Moody of New Jersey. A man denounced by Washington ( he regularly swiped his mail) and all but forgotten in the parts of Nova Scotia where he was essential in civil development.   Being a descendent of his compatriot, Lawrence Marr, I have an axe to grind, but if you have seen the movie &quot;The Patriot&quot; and find yourself distressed at the actions of the Loyalists in America, you owe it to yourself to read this. Moody, being aware of the usages of war at the time, was careful to wear his uniform and carry his commission on his adventures in the Delaware Gap area. His escapes were legendary and he became the subject of children's tales to the &quot;patriot&quot; third that remained behind when he and compatriots fled New York at the end of the Revolution. The first chapters reveal the situation at the beginning of the Revolution and the social web of the time. It is easy to understand his actions given the treatment of his in-laws and associates by the radicals, and one might suspect an element of class warfare motivated acts against the wealthy farmer class to which Moody, the Brittains, and the Marr families belonged. The later half of the book deals with his attempts to acquire a loyalist pension and his role in establishing a community in Nova Scotia. As such, the book is a valuable addition to the &quot;Loyalist Studies&quot; program of Canada's scholars. Nonetheless, it is also of great value to those of us in the States. It demonstrates the complex situation at the time of the Revolution with son against father, brother against brother. As one reads about  denunciations and persecutions, one learns not only that &quot;It could happen here&quot; but that &quot;It has happened here.&quot;	2003-03-30
US	51895732	R3IUEVFEER7CBU	0446604941	761871982	Gladly the Cross-Eyed Bear (Matthew Hope)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A fun read for a night or two	Ed Mc Bain prose, teddy bears, boats Florida country-club/marinas, a pretty girl and murderous rogues. The toy industry and copyrights/patent scheme turns on the profits from the &quot;must have toy&quot; of the year. Just the book for a chilly evening, comfy chair and your favorite beverage.	2003-03-30
US	51895732	RPAY63W4X1EOH	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Masterwork by a Literary Master	Even a casual read through this classic demonstrates what it takes to construct a literary masterpiece: humanity, humor, relevance and universality.  The great works are universal because they are so rooted in their time and place and in so being they demonstrate the essential humanity of their characters. Greek tragedies, Shakespeare's plays, the 19th century Russian novelists all appealed to their contemporaries and history as a consequence of such traits. This novel falls into this category and is simply a MUST read for any serious reader. Every couple years when I return to it, I find the depth of wit and wisdom with which Achebe presents the conflict of generations and cultures, an essential sameness those cultures miss in judging by superficial traits, and in that I am assured of the skill that modern literature still demonstrates.	2003-03-29
US	51895732	RRBMTIAFDK4EH	0786707941	447157825	A House in Sicily	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not the Usual Travel Book	In the last ten years there has been a stream of &quot;living on the Continent&quot; books: Brits in Spain, Americans in south of France, everyone in Tuscany.  Some were charming, some self pitying, and some &quot;Gee, how exotic it all is! Lucky me!&quot;  Well that's not what this is about.<br />It is really the memoir of a house, an inherited house developed in a somewhat great ( not quite grand) style, written by the heir at the end of a long and interesting intellectual life.  The various fameous and not so fameous, the hangers on and the local villagers enter into it all and are portrayed along with pictures of the grounds and some of the convivial rooms in what must be described as a family album in the middle of the book. <br />A word of warning. This is a quirky book, sometimes a bit annoying: reminiscent of an elderly aunt telling the assembled family stories about childhood adventures with great-grandfather as the sun sets. Not for everyone such charm.	2003-03-29
US	51895732	R1BWXKZFM840IE	1582971242	232244770	2003 Poet's Market (Poet's Market, 2003)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	As essential as a word processor	If you write poetry and want to publish it you need this book. It's that simple. Magazines, editors, addresses listed in alphabetical order and again in sub groups, i.e. religous, nature, humor and so forth.  The web listings - the word is really getting out-give addresses which frequently present sample works and special topics/guidelines. How useful is the book? Well I've placed ten poems this year using addresses found in it, half of this year's placements. I think it probably saved me the purchase cost in stamps and manuscripts alone.	2003-03-28
US	51895732	R3M0IZHMVR94LE	067102146X	581110799	Serpent Gate (Kevin Kerney Novels)	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Following the Backtrail	I came to this novel by way of McGarrity's later work and it is clear he gets better as he goes along. This tale does bog down a bit in th mountain snows and border drug culture and their multiple complications. Here and there bits of gratuitous violence mar the scene.  I don't mind violence in a thriller, but some of this just does not seem to really move the plot. Despite that, if you have read some of his later novels with pleasure, it is worth picking this one up. Why not read this book? The three hundred plus pages make for a good two evening's read. Sure beats the T.V. and you can't beat the price.	2003-03-28
US	51895732	R3TSXBYKDW3X4U	0195146603	2582519	Ornamentalism: How the British Saw Their Empire	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Readable Scholarship	Let's keep it short. The title is more than a cute pun. Old Boney once said, no doubt in fine French, that a man would do things for a piece of yellow ribbon that he would not do for all the gold in the world. This scholarly, but not too much so, study is about British uses not of glory but pomp: the deliberate distribution of honors neatly packaged by class; indeed, neatly packaged by the rank of various colonial states somewhat in the pattern of elborate dinner seatings of the middle ages. &quot;I say is Fijii above or below the salt?&quot; In an age of &quot;postcolonial/subaltern/otherness&quot; studies this is a readable guide to events and behaviors of our British cousins that those of us on this side of the pond sometimes find rather mysterious. It is a good addition to the personal library of anyone doing serious literary/social  analysis.	2003-03-28
US	51895732	R347O657CP5UHI	0812968875	534240151	Poetry 180: A Turning Back to Poetry	Books	5	85	88	N	N	Don't know much about what poets to read?	The premise of this anthology is a poem a day for high school reading, or I might think for a high school reader. It is a wonderful little text. The works are neither simplistic nor obscure and cover the broad range in style and subject of contemporary poetry. Be advised, not all of them are &quot;new&quot; works, and not all important contemporary writers are represented:(Some of the BIG big names are not here). Still, for anyone wanting to develop familiarity with what has been going on in the world of poetry there is a lot of pleasure at a reasonable price.<br />I rather like the idea that there is no obvious agenda here, nor any pretense of &quot;the best.&quot; Readability seems to be the standard. It is a book for a bus-stop, or the short ride home.  It is light and easily portable. I can envision a poem over breakfast, or one to conclude an evening of study. Along those lines, the print is nicely laid out; it's the sort of book that I can read without my specs - after all my discovery of poetry in high-school was decades ago.	2003-03-28
US	51895732	R2C1JSENH069M5	1570717206	396499193	Poetry Speaks: Hear Great Poets Read Their Work from Tennyson to Plath (Book and 3 Audio CDs)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Ticket to an all star reading	I have been attending poetry readings for over forty years, yet never till I heard these C.D.s &quot;speak out loud and bold&quot; have I witnessed anything so grand.  Here is the ebb and flow of the language of the greatest poets of the last century in the English speaking world presenting their own works in their own voices. This is not designed as a scholarly volume, but the knowledge available here is unique and beyond compare. For example, scholars were aware of the dramatic quality of Tennyson's readings.  His friends remarked on the point. Mrs. Browning made a sketch of him reading &quot;Maud&quot; and remarked on his manner. Yet without the evidence the recording provides, one would never appreciate the cadences and pauses he heard in his works.  Somewhat of-putting to the bookish ear, Yeats' chanting delivery, so in tune with his philosophical speculations on the function of poetry, is beautifully demonstrated.  The changes in method of reading and intonation which the recordings of Auden reveal are treasures for interpretation. A lifetime of familiarity with some of these works makes the recordings even more astounding.  It is fairly well known that for Edison the motion picture was an afterthought to the phonograph.  He thought history could always view portraits but actual voices were overwhelmingly personal. Wow, was he right!<br />While the C.D. s are the main focus of the work, the accompanying texts, not all of which are presented in recorded form, the biographical and bibliographic notes and supplements are useful.  My one regret is the book's exclusion of living poets.	2003-03-28
US	51895732	R2TGEYH4PTRVH	0316602051	985416391	The Jester	Books	2	1	1	N	N	You'll see it coming	This is a rather unhistorical historical romance. Set in the period of the early crusades, to which the principal character is attracted for not wholly understandable reasons, and in which he performs in a somewhat confused and confusing fashion before returning to France where he finds his world in shambles, while throughout he somehow manages to entangle his life with the aristocracy.<br />All of this is a framework for a boy gets girl romantic plot, and is designed, despite the gore, as a &quot;feel - good&quot; tale. But it could not happen and even if it did, it should not have happened; it violates plausability.<br />Historical fiction owes something to the reality of the history.Yes knights were professional killers, yes the crusaders behaved like louts, yes there was a trade and lust after relics, but this is a stretcher. More accurate detail would be welcome.<br />A little example: what was the status of inns and innkeepers at this time? Virtually non-existant, I would guess. And the results of a peasant uprising such as climaxes the tale would be far different.  Consider the fate of Wat Tyler in England 350 years later.<br />But we can guess the outcome in this story.  All the clues are there early. I will not spoil it for you, but when you see the beast coming over the hill and think, &quot;No! It could not be an elephant!&quot; remember, I told you, &quot;It is!&quot;	2003-03-27
US	51895732	R1VWS62MGB8JB7	0385336403	293114026	Cloud of Sparrows	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A prime "beach Book"	I give it so many stars because I like to read novels on the beach, and this one makes me want to buy some sunscreen. This is not an artistic novel. This is not a deep novel. This is the once every two or three years \\"exotic Japan\\" novel: samurai swords, shoguns, geishas. It is a clearly in the historic romance genre. Spiced up in this case with two complicated revenge plots (one rooted in America, one dating back to the beginning of the Tokagowa Shogunate) and an unexplained demonstration of force by unidentified western powers; this novel is set in that vague period just following Perry's black ships and the Harris embassy.  A reader might even be tempted to see a bit of a reversed \\"The Barbarian and Geisha\\" in the novel's events.<br />While there is the requisite explaination of exotica, the multiple layers of the kimono and various elegant knots which sound rather like origami figures, there is also much \\"unexplained\\" going on in this novel. The major gimmick (one member of every generation of the central noble family has visions of the future) just seems to be there and the reader is assured it is so by means of the seers'inability to precisely place such visions; ergo, classic perils of prophecy, Japanese versions of the fall of the Persian Empire or the undoing of the Gordian knot. The visions of modern urban Japan are enough to drive one character to bloody slaughter. There's more, but why fuss.<br />The fun is that there's plenty of action, and while the violence might generate an x rating, the sex is almost old fashioned:\\"The rain beat against the castle walls,\\" sort of thing. The concluding chapters clearly point to a sequal. Where will the exiled lady and gunfighter settle and what ties will they retain to the Daimyo in Edo? Tune in in time for next year's beach novel.	2003-03-27
US	51895732	R1RMALKSJ6NZT2	0684853485	386878605	Pelikan	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Manic Bozophobia	Despite the fact that I do know a certified \\"Yat Bozophobic\\" - that's a native of the Crescent City with a fear of clowns - \\"Nasty people,\\" she says seriously, \\"always playing with string. They have lists in their pockets,\\" this is not a reality novel about New Orleans, crime, or even fear of clowns. Do not come here looking for tightly plotted James Lee Burke narration, nor for a picture of the French Quatta. Yea, there are some scenes of excess and depravity, especially in one of those fringe Esplanade bars, but in this loosely plotted string of sophomoric vamps the picaresque hero(s) never develop the requisite charm to carry a reader along in a forgiving mood. I never held much truck with relics, but think there is little true wit in mocking those who find some solace there. Further,I do not find nuns exceedingly funny per se, there's only so much humor in oral sex, and \\"merkin\\" jokes are passe in our world of shaving, piercing, and tatooing regularly displayed in popular men's mags. Still, some of the clown humor has a punch, the fat and thin Elvises (Elvii?) are fun, and oh well , there's some sophomore in us all. I'll give it a three star.	2003-03-04
US	51895732	R3GM0WZ4FWA7A0	0312280955	312243091	Massacre Island: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Best in Stable	If you are new to Martin Hegwood, this is where to start. Other novels in the series are better than fair and worth the time( I prefer Green-Eyed Hurricane), but the necessary set-up information is here. Jack Delmas, divorced drop-out banker, private eye ( why are these P.I.s always retreads?) mixes with smugglers and bombers in an island setting in the company of a good ole boy &quot;bubba&quot; deputy sheriff with a high wheeled, swamp truck. Tavern brawls, parties with Jack's ex-wife's pre face lift crowd, and a next door group of costal undergraduates on weekend binge duty spice up an island inspired plot. This is a quick read, traditional who done what, that moves to a neatly prepared conclusion. Perfect book for a long plane ride or day at the beach.	2003-03-04
US	51895732	R3UFUYLBHI57O4	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Looking for the classic Grisham?	If you like the classic Grisham thrillers - fast moving D.C.  lawyers, mysterious wheeler-dealers, evil corporations, big buck settlements, plus a touch of romance and private jet trips to semi-exotic settings, this is the book for you. But unlike with \\"The Summons\\" a practiced reader can see the plot's conclusion coming from a distance. Grisham bogs down a bit while clipping his character's wings, preventing an all out bolt to the conclusion, and a violent event on the streets of D.C. leaves readers contemplating how conspiracy can be disguised as random violence, the theme with which the novel begins. Still, the violence touching central characters is less than in \\"Painted House;\\" although, Clay Carter's (the hero/anti hero lawyer)adversaries in their greed and self serving machinations are just as deadly as the knife wielding, head bashing characters of \\"Painted House.\\" <br />The author creates a sympathetic lawyer, not surprising as Carter's colleagues embody the traits of popular lawyer jokes, but as I closed the book I had the feeling that not all of this club of high rolling tort lawyers could be such rogues, or if they are some of the corporate actions portrayed just might merit such behavior. All in all, a book worth the time, but heavy on poetic justice; Carter deserved to keep a bit more of the swag.	2003-02-11
US	51895732	R11WCWMBB8VU1R	0679752897	650489395	Ninety-two in the Shade	Books	4	22	23	N	Y	Postmodern rifs	While this novel portrays exotic behavior and Key West fish guiding (talk about redundancy), murder, crime, it is not really a comic novel, a crime novel or even that elusive genre - the \\"Keys Novel.\\" Maybe it can be classified as an \\"Old Hippie\\" novel; certainly there is a touch of that, but there is also a touch of the \\"Old Florida\\" novel with eccentric, elderly relatives with cash and the political fix. The tale progresses in a halucinatory mix of events. Simply stated young conch wants to get into the guide business, faces dual problems of not enough room for more guides and cost of boat, from which conflict flows. There are some nice scenes of excess in passion and alcohol.  There is also the desperate, ends of the earth, behavior of island inhabitants: in this case people do what they say they will do, which can be a very bad thing. What plot there is can best be described as ecclectic. Read it and remember the eighties.	2003-02-11
US	51895732	RF7JDGPBUEMRE	052594656X	499017825	The Big Gamble: A Kevin Kerney Novel (Kevin Kerney Novels)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	The Importance Of Sharing	Other readers have remarked that this novel is a real page turner, and so it is.  Some have noted the plot line developing out of the police procedures involving the two seemingly unrelated murders. What is worth adding is that the author's style of development makes a  reader aware that each investigation is missing key data in the possession of the other team. Added to this is reader knowledge of looming dangers and potential error for the &quot;good guys.&quot;  So the question becomes,&quot;Will the connection be made in time?&quot; Clayton's estrangement from Kearney (his natural father) illustrates the interpenetration of personal and professional lives which we often deny. <br />There are some interesting sidelights on the jurisdictional problems of reservation casinos. There is also a bit of observation of the results of the booming of the southwest, but without the preachiness that some of the Florida mystery writers have begun to exude. This is an enjoyable novel with just enough grit to make it a worthwhile expense of time.	2003-02-04
US	51895732	R2AJODAQSN7AH5	0399148736	431507905	Twelve Mile Limit (Doc Ford)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Doc's Flea Market	If you like Doc Ford, you'll love this one, he is the absolute center of the novel.  It includes an attractive lawyer, a disaster and rescue at sea, Dinkin's Bay parties, Coast Guard lore, drunken bigshot actors, dog fights, drug/people smugglers, wicked Columbians, a large Albino, mysterious mid-easterners, an I.R.A. bomber on the run, headhunters, paid (by some government) assasins, midnight raids, a jungle adventure and count em, four different women in the sack with Doc. Travis  had nothing on Doc. This novel is like those Miami area flea markets in converted malls: something for everyone and everything for someone. <br />There is less interaction with Tomlinson than usual; and although she makes a token visit, White's newly introduced character of Doc's \\"sister\\" (cousin) is not as extensive a part of the plot as might be expected.<br />Despite this White manages to keep his plot moving. Part of the skill, as he admits in an epilogue, is the reliance on factual situations.  Anyone who has written effective narrative has relied on a string of events, mixed and reattached, but derived some way from reality. <br />In the novel's climax, as Doc confronts/assists a special forces operative who has become a force in the jungle, echoes of Kurtz and Marlow appear. But the situation is like that in the classic film \\"The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance.\\" Justification of extreme force to protect the innocent, even in the face of law, is and has been an important philosophical problem, closely akin to the place of evil in the world. White deliberately raises the point of EVIL. There is no doubt that such actions as Doc takes are requisite socially, but what are the personal consequences; what kind of man does such deeds? <br />Just in case this seems too dour, the concluding event will become a comic classic in the tales of surveillance.	2003-01-08
US	51895732	R2TFRIAW8L4HDC	0743244710	533146849	White Doves at Morning	Books	4	11	15	N	Y	The present and the past	Same high quality product, just a different flavor:<br />This novel rates five stars for high quality but four (maybe fewer) for readers who expect more Robicheaux adventures or their nineteenth century counterpart. It does not have the drive and focus of earlier novels. Nor does it have the lyric pace found in Cold Mountain which deals with similar events (largely the return home of the soldier.) Most offputting is a chapter structure a bit like \\"meanwhile back in New Iberia.\\" Still, this novel is an enjoyable read and has a revealing role in Burke's canon. It is a different branch, or maybe root, of the tree of James Lee Burke's wonderful, old live oak of a bibliography. His recent novels, digging deeper and deeper into the past, have pointed in this direction. All of his work seemed tied into one whole, but the tie was elusive for me until this novel of events surrounding the outbreak and aftermath of the War Between the States came on the scene, revealing Burke's sense of the presence of the past in our lives.<br />     The direction of much serious twentieth century American fiction has been autobiography - however well disguised. Fitzgerald, Hemingway and Steinbeck all went there. Burke and Grisham , and others, have been there recently. After all a good writer writes what he knows. One terminus of autobiography inevitably is geneology.  What a rich possibility exists there! For geneology naturally stimulates imagination about food, clothing books, even the sounds and smells of everyday life. The present may, as Faulkner seems to insist, grow out of the past, but what the past was can only be reconstructed by fiction. Here is the trade of the novelist, and what a novelist like Burke can do is thrilling.<br />     Burke picks that era, 1860-1865, and the rich ethnic and social mix of Louisiana and conjures up abolitionists, slaves and overseers, plantation owners, madams and merchants, a blockade runner, and, centrally, Willie Burke, son of Irish immigrants, not sure why he is fighting. Battle scenes have a touch of Henry Fleming and a touch of Saving Private Ryan. Some problems are the result of mere mischance: the disasterous effect of the blue uniforms of some Louisiana militia units. Burke, though, seems determined to look beyond at the wickedness and good of individuals, even in these situations, and the behavior of roving bands of local thugs as well as \\"Spoons\\" Butler's soldiers gives a picture of chaos that happens when a war is lost. At times evil seems to prevail, yet self doubt is  the test of individual worth, and numerous characters are engaged in ethical struggle leading to surprising results.	2002-12-09
US	51895732	R1XPFG6RZI1MSJ	0743204840	843105206	Jolie Blon's Bounce: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Perhaps a new direction	This novel will probably get mixed reviews, but I think it is a must read for anyone who appreciates the humane vision which has developed in Burke's remarkable string of novels. It is a bit difficult to determine where this book fits into the extensive Robicheaux world which the author has created. It does not demonstrate the dash of earlier novels, nor the deep personal introspection of very recent works. The novel opens with a rape-murder, and characters begin the inevitable hunt for a \\"why.\\" The plot suggests that the irrational force of a generational working out of evil is as strong a motive for crime as many sociological reasons. In his recent novel, Purple Cane Road,  Burke presented  a view back into Dave Robicheaux' formative youth; this novel at hand is not so concerned  with biographical psychology. Yet it continues Burke's exploration of how one lives in a world created not just by one's own past but by the entangling strands of historical circumstance. It seems the author has expanded his purpose past this complex character to a more extensive world.<BR>     This is a well made work. The mystical musings of Electric Mist are here also, along with historical trappings( a Confederate Battle Flag in its glass case) associated with important characters. The cast is an ecclectic lot: a character whose life has been incarnated evil, a bible salesman who drags his case of wares on a skate, and a homeless vet; all of whom mingle with familiar New Orleans underworld and New Iberia \\"courthouse square\\" types in a dark novel posing deeper questions about violence than the \\"bon temps\\" attitude of earlier novels. Ironic situations and pairings of characters abound as individuals' purposes lead to momentary alliances constucting a textured plot. This is a philosophical piece, but bayou descriptions, and other telling moments ( for example, the sheriff tapping the heels of his hands on his desk chair as he confronts Dave)are admirable craftsman's work. <BR>     It isclear that Burke does not intend his hero to live changeless, spending endless days bream fishing, to be called out from his party for a caper or two.  Far from being a formula hero, Dave Robicheaux, in his growing understanding of his moral response to life's changes is a  touchstone for readers' emotions and actions. After all, Alafair is off to college.	2002-07-05
