US	51899704	R3DYLCDV7J2VJ3	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Funny Touching String of Irritable Authorial Over-Stretches.	Most of the reviews of this book concentrate on how empathetic the author is, and how he uses humor, and how he \\"gets it\\" about autism.  You could say as much about a very fine book report on autism; as a novel this work falls a bit short.<br /><br />The plotting involves a long sequence of initiatives from the main character, Christopher.  His family troubles are sad, his struggles are alternatively funny and intense.  You want to like this boy, you want him to succeed.  The reader also wishes to feel they have learned something about autism, such is the sadness of the struggle.  But then... I hesitate to be critical of a book so owned by the readers, but then you stop believing the story.<br /><br />Maybe the energy and relentless drive of Christopher stops being at all believable.  Perhaps the inevitable pathos of a lad caught between parents struggling with each other, with love... The book tries to create an irritation with Christopher that mirrors the irritation often felt when dealing with an autistic person.  But the irritation on my part came from the somewhat manipulative story telling of the author, and the sense that this story was a string of pearls, each smaller than the last, each vignette less believable.<br /><br />So I am less than totally enthused, and I predict that this book will fade over time, even though I feel for Christopher and for autistic persons.  It is the feeling that you are supposed to want to love this story that perhaps in the end drives one off the band wagon, a feeling that the author has positioned the reader too carefully, the story too artful... Maybe next time out for Mr. Haddon?  A story without a built in heart tug?	2005-02-01
US	51899704	R3JN663WFMNAEV	0618340734	543646566	Snobbery: The American Version	Books	4	46	63	N	N	I am too good for this book.  Sadly, maybe you are not.	This is a pretty good book.  Not great.  Sure, he pillories the major snobbish fashions of the day.  Lots of fun making fun of people who are not as sensible as you or I.<br />He also does a wonderful job of showing how the basis for snobbery has changed, from WASPs and elitism based on real but arbitrary standards like the name of the school you attended, or your connections to established families --- to the modern world, warped by the arbitrary winds of fashionable status, the &quot;hotness&quot; of market driven mania.<br />Still, as a reviewer of great excellence, I must say that his discussion of his attempts to overcome a life of looking down on people and to enter the &quot;snob free zone&quot; limps along -- does he really want us to believe that such a place exists?  Who would want to go there?<br />So read this book if you want penetrating insights, sound social commentary, and great amusement.  If those are the kinds of things that a person like YOU finds interesting.  I might even have given him 5 stars, but of course, I reserve such an award for true merit, of which I am the sole judge.	2003-08-26
US	51899704	RK4YTEU9O6DG5	0805961321	808847129	Time and the Mystery of Consciousness	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Uniquely Interesting Book.	This short book offers a thoughtful approach to the ages-long debate about the nature of consciousness.  The author centers on a sense of time as personal history and posits this as a method through which the human consciousness works.  Our sense of both a past and a future are present in our actions; time delimits our action, and the historical sense of narrative through time is the operating modality of consciousness, a cornerstone of what separates human from animal consciousness.  In addition to this central argument there are delightful diversions in this book, including a trenchant discussion of pain in the arts that is at once a fascinating diversion from and explication of the main theme of consciousness and time.<br /><br />You can quarrel endlessly over whether Richard DeRemee's insights are uniquely original.  One thinks not - any finding about consciousness that is so central to humanity will have been re-discovered time and again by the rest of us, from Aristotle to Freud, or from Bud to Jane at the corner grocery.  These insights are in fact echoed through the history of human thought.  But the author turns his own mind and prose style to the problem and as a result picks out this thread of human consciousness and in his own unique words highlights this finding as a central insight to nature and humanity.<br /><br />Like any book on humanity or consciousness or nature, a reader will disagree at least once per chapter.  I am not going to crack apples with the author over the details, except to note two points:<br /><br />· The argument over the way time interacts with the human consciousness could have been profitably counter-pointed with longer and more involved sections on space and physicality as modalities for the operation of consciousness - it is ironic that a physician spends only a brief amount of time on the body as a delimiting factor of consciousness;<br />· Much as in regards to any philosophical treatise, the \\"what next\\" question arises - what does this uniquely historical sense of time mean for human morals, interactions, belief in God?  The author has his answers, and weaves these into chapters later in the book, but of course leaves the reader wanting more.<br /><br />These comments are not criticisms - one can hardly ask one book or one author to settle all the questions of the human condition.  The writing here is clear and the thoughts illuminate.  More doctors and lawyers and architects should take up thinking and writing after their professional careers.  (OK, not lawyers!)  I recommend this book.hat does this uniquely historical sense of time mean for human morals, interactions, belief in God?  The author has his answers, and weaves these into chapters later in the book, but of course leaves the reader wanting more.<br /><br />These comments are not criticisms - one can hardly ask one book or one author to settle all the questions of the human condition.  The writing here is clear and the thoughts illuminate.  More doctors and lawyers and architects should take up thinking and writing after their professional careers.  (OK, not lawyers!)  I recommend this book.	2003-07-01
US	51899704	R1CO36FOZYJZ4V	0873514505	358494324	Baghdad Express: A Gulf War Memoir	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Promising Writer; Interesting Story; Sound History.	This book is hard to put down.  Turnipseed is a very good writer, the kind of author who can make going to the laundromat a mesmerizing must-read.<br />The topic is timely -- the travails of a man in the backlines of the first Gulf War, capturing the boredom, the effort, the sense of distance from both home and the Front.  In America most of us stand on the sidelines during war, watching CNN.  We have forgotten the boredom and effort of serving, and this book brings those home to us.<br />Turnipseed is a pocket philosopher, a wandering existentialist, in his own mind.  He would be well advised to drop this shtick in his next book, unless he has something original or pointed to offer.  In this book he is just a young man in an awkward war who has happened to read a bunch of philosophy.  The quotes are sometimes even on point.  But as a reader, I gave up reading people who read philosophy for me when I was about 15 years old.<br />That said, this book offers a better view of the realities of War than most; it is the sort of first hand memoir that captures history in the moment, and it just may be the first book of a potentially great writer -- if he grows up or does something worth a second book!	2003-03-22
US	51899704	R14A9V5G514CKY	0066212448	302174200	Wittgenstein's Poker: The Story of a Ten-Minute Argument Between Two Great Philosophers	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Excellent Lengthy Magazine Article.	This book would have been better as a lengthy magazine article.  The authors present the infamous poker incident between Karl Popper and Ludwig Wittgenstein in a breezy and fun to read treatment.  This 10 minute contretemps between these two major philosophers is stretched out with material from their lives, the Vienna Circle, logical positivism, the Wittgenstein attack on philosophy, Popper's contributions to science.....The extended scene setting IS the book, in the end, because what they know and can say about the actual arguement is very limited.<br />The book starts with a claim that, having interviewed several surviving attendees who saw the poker incident, they will conduct a forensic analysis as to who said what, and who lied.  They do this in only a very sketchy way. (The poker incident was a verbal argument between Popper and Wittgenstein over whether philosophy had meaning, or was only about verbal puzzles.  The argument was either a seminal moment or a silly huff, and this book argues both sides of that case.)<br />The book also creates some tension between Wittgenstein's view that philosophy was essentially about language puzzles, and Popper's case for philosophy being about real lives, real people.  But this is never resolved in anything but the most cursory way.<br />The result is a fun read, but not a weightly or important book.  I think that a shorter magazine article in the New Republic would have sufficed.	2003-01-21
US	51899704	R1K2PMV6NW66F0	0374123543	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A political biography: shows workings of Churchill's genius.	This is a wonderful biography.  Jenkins has an easygoing story style that is fun to read.  He also opens the door and shows the internal workings of Churchill's greatness.<br />So many &quot;great man&quot; biographies concentrate on great events and great decisions, to the exclusion of understanding the unique contributions of the man.  This book examines the political and literary education which Churchill brought to the table in World War II, the great and small dramas which marked his long accomplished life.<br />Writing a master work on Marlborough was a form of self-education, as was Churchill's history of the English Speaking Peoples.  Both elevated his expectations for the British people in war, and he lead them to fulfill his elevated expectations.  The historian as leader....<br />Endless parliamentary debates, including some very real humiliations, gave Churchill a tempered sense of what he could accomplish -- this idealist was probably only ready to lead at age 65, because this education broke against the prow of his stubborn sense of right and wrong.<br />Jenkins captures these formative influences with nuance and drama.  This book is an excellent one-volume biography, and provides a daunting argument that life's challenges educate a great leader in a rough and tumble; that self-education also plays a role; that meeting great challenges is the work of a lifetime; that losing and defeat play their role...<br />By the way, this book is not bloated, as one review says, unless you prefer the comic book approach.	2002-03-18
US	51899704	R2CUHY2IMG1V17	0873514076	661526142	No More Gallant a Deed: A Civil War Memoir of the First Minnesota Volunteers (Great Lakes Connections: The Civil War)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The story is grand, the prose simple, the details fascinate	This memoir of service with the First Minnesota recounts the sojourn of James Wright, from Red Wing, Minnesota through the battle of Gettysburg.  Wright wrote the book long after his service, and his over-long monograph sat in the Minnesota Historical Society until edited and published in this book.  The book starts as a slow read, but picks up and eventually begins to mesmerize the reader.<br />Think of any major event of the day -- September 11th in New York, for example.  How valuable will first person accounts be?  A first person account of a major past event is very interesting for the details, the feel, the point of view.<br />Company F was Wright's home.  He missed the famous charge of the First Minnesota at Gettysburg, as his Company was off to the side suffering severe casualties of their own during the battle.  The story is as grand, even with this &quot;missed&quot; moment.<br />The editing is good, and preserves the author's tone.  The book could have been even shorter, but with some effort during the opening chapters, the reader is well rewarded.	2002-02-22
US	51899704	R2L54MBFWQ5P69	0156006391	937190844	The Seville Communion	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Graceful story about a strong priest, small plot holes.	The writing, even in translation is graceful.  The central character is a priest, a strong &quot;good soldier&quot; who serves the Vatican as a combination hatchet man/private detective.  The mystery is initially intriguing -- who is sending the Pope e-mails that are mysterious and of deadly import?<br />This is an enjoyable book to read... but the central character, the priest, is so strongly written that when he falls for the woman, and fails in his mission, this is mildly unbelievable.  His crisis of faith and strength is a bit too precipitous.  And the solution to the mystery is not adequately foreshadowed, which makes a decent solution appear arbitrary.  But this is in general a very good read by an author who is erudite, writes well, and captures some of the enchantment of Seville.  Makes me want to order tapas and watch the slow Guadalquivir!	2002-02-13
US	51899704	R1NVB4THYKCZ0X	0873514068	309441920	The Last Full Measure: The Life and Death of the First Minnesota Volunteers	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Grand Odyssey of Minnesota Frontiersmen in Civil War.	The men of the First Minnesota could swing an axe, and did so, building bridges and making roads.  They could shoot -- straight and fast, and did so on some of the most famous battlefields of the Civil War.  They were a \\"cool\\" Regiment, men who stood fast.  And they died, as a Regiment, on the battlefield of Gettysburg.<br />  This book should be read by every high school senior in Minnesota, and most elsewhere.  Moe captures the simple competence of these frontiersmen, their ability to walk for long distances (Antietam), work with tools (Peninsula Campaign) and to stand fast and fight hard -- in each battle.<br />  The First Minnesota was raised in the West, in the new state of Minnesota, but fought with the Army of the Potomac.  This gives their story a sense of an American Odyssey -- Moe captures the changing nation as a backdrop to the war.  The First Minnesota struggles to learn how to cook crabs... and how to fight the Secesh.  The diaries and newspaper articles of the time illuminate the nation through the stories these men tell.<br />Finally, the Civil War buff will love this book.  The book tells one entire arc of the Civil War through the life and death of this Regiment.  And Moe's writing is so simple and clear, the story unfolds and makes the early eastern battles understandable.	2002-02-12
US	51899704	RBILL8MBQHTPQ	0268018774	675580165	Three Rival Versions of Moral Enquiry: Encyclopaedia, Genealogy, and Tradition	Books	5	43	44	N	Y	Clarifies the alternative streams of modern thought.	It is not often that a book of moral philosophy provides both a deep education in the history and content of thought, and a concrete set of alternatives to transform modern living.<br />In this book, MacIntryre argues that the three supposedly incommensurable approaches to moral life that are left on the table in modern moral philosophy ought to be acknowledged.  The battle between the three approaches is too often papered over.  A better method would be to acknowledge to students that the Universities themselves are at war over these approaches, and are in fact an arena for this conflict, rather than an equal and uninvolved home for all ways of thinking.<br />He is right.  Any student of philosophy recognizes quickly that the instructors are speaking within incommensurable theories, speaking past one another.  This book explains why, and does not attempt to provide a solution, other than to recognize that a war is going on.<br />A Thomist like MacIntrye argues that a child must be brought up within the traditions of the truth as preparation to learn the truth.  Yet modern science and the 19th century encyclopedists argue that truth is progressive.  And Nietzche argues that an exposition of truth is merely the will to state the truth as seen by the person, a form of the will to power.<br />These incommensurable approaches can only be the source of conflict in learning.  To win, MacIntyre argues, would require one to transcend the others by explaining the problems of the other modes of thinking, solving those problems for the other mode, and moving the debate on.  None have as yet triumphed, although MacIntyre holds out hope for Thomistic arguments, based in Aristotle and moving from there.<br />His discussion of the Augustine/Aristotle debates of the 14th Century Parisian university is rivetting (OK, I admit it, I am exaggerating).  This is a difficult but worthwile compendium of lectures, informative and educational.  A reader will understand modern philosophy better as a byproduct of reading this book.er as a byproduct of reading this book.	2002-01-07
US	51899704	R3PZB9HWGDFL21	0268018774	675580165	Three Rival Versions of Moral Enquiry: Encyclopaedia, Genealogy, and Tradition	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Clarifies the alternative streams of modern thought.	It is not often that a book of moral philosophy provides both a deep education in the history and content of thought, and a concrete set of alternatives to transform modern living.<br />In this book, MacIntryre argues that the three supposedly incommensurable approaches to moral life that are left on the table in modern moral philosophy ought to be acknowledged.  The battle between the three approaches is too often papered over.  A better method would be to acknowledge to students that the Universities themselves are at war over these approaches, and are in fact an arena for this conflict, rather than an equal and uninvolved home for all ways of thinking.<br />He is right.  Any student of philosophy recognizes quickly that the instructors are speaking within incommensurable theories, speaking past one another.  This book explains why, and does not attempt to provide a solution, other than to recognize that a war is going on. <br />A Thomist like MacIntrye argues that a child must be brought up within the traditions of the truth as preparation to learn the truth.  Yet modern science and the 19th century encyclopedists argue that truth is progressive.  And Nietzche argues that an exposition of truth is merely the will to state the truth as seen by the person, a form of the will to power.<br />These incommensurable approaches can only be the source of conflict in learning.  To win, MacIntyre argues, would require one to transcend the others by explaining the problems of the other modes of thinking, solving those problems for the other mode, and moving the debate on.  None have as yet triumphed, although MacIntyre holds out hope for Thomistic arguments, based in Aristotle and moving from there.<br />His discussion of the Augustine/Aristotle debates of the 14th Century Parisian university is rivetting (OK, I admit it, I am exaggerating).  This is a difficult but worthwile compendium of lectures, informative and educational.  A reader will understand modern philosophy better as a byproduct of reading this book.	2002-01-07
US	51899704	R1GXEY3NNZZKBH	0253337380	56430133	A Great Civil War: A Military and Political History, 1861-1865	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Brilliant One-Volume History.	Most books about the Civil War lack context. Buy a book about Gettysburg, and you discover that Fredericksburg was an issue, as was the leadership of Hooker. So you back up and read some other book about Fredericksburg. Then you scream: is there NO decent one-volume overview, something short of Shelby Steele and Bruce Catton and the 10 volumne version? This is the book. Very readable, captures all of the battles and strategies within a political framework. Weigley's discussion of Fort Sumter is a classic, exploring why Sumter closed the major port of the South, and occupying Sumter forced the South to open hostilities and clarify their intentions. This book opens up all of the controversies of the Civil War buff, without settling any... what a valuable book!	2001-07-12
US	51899704	R61ZN1QTHSJBU	039475767X	10448117	The Little Sister	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Orfamay and Marlowe; wise cracks and skewed sisters.	Orfamay Quest is  the little sister.  Marlowe is the man.  The story offers sex and murder.  The dialogue is Chandler.  So why is there no click, no snap?<br />&quot;Now that you have hit me, maybe you ought to kiss me&quot;, one of the women in the story says.  That is the sort of line that is out of place, a Chandler crack of the sort that sings in other books but seems strange here.  Few women would ever say such a line, and the woman in this story would not have, and why have her say it?  The same is true of the story, where the death and murder never seems quite serious.<br />There is a scene in the book where two actors playing tough guys try to muscle Marlowe by acting tough.  Both appear to be caricatures of characters from the Maltese Falcon.  That is the problem with this book - it is too self-consciously tongue in cheek and self-wise.  Is it a parody or a novel?  Marlowe's wise-cracking diffidence takes over the entire book.<br />But Chandler on an off day is always worth a read, and his bad writing (or half-parody)sings better than most modern writers, so if you can find it in a used book store, snap it up!	2001-05-18
US	51899704	R2J9DMFBPBP6HZ	038078209X	909298323	Music, The Brain, And Ecstasy: How Music Captures Our Imagination	Books	5	5	6	N	N	How music and the brain work, and how consciousness works.	This book builds chapter by chapter from the building blocks of music (tones, scales, melody) and the brain structures and perceptive channels which allow human understanding of music... and ends up coming close to a breakthrough in defining general human consciousness.  To this amateur, the book is readable and entertaining, full of &quot;wow cool!&quot; moments.... a trained musician hears music with both sides of the brain more fully engaged than does an amateur....the Pythagorean scale is both arbitrary and yet in some ways a natural result, giving our brain structures and musical structure...<br />I have a father-in-law who explores the entire philosophy of consciousness (often over a good brandy) who notes that this work comes close to defining consciousness, what is uniquely human.  In hearing music and  retaining in the moment both the past musical notes, and the form of the music past and present, the human consciousness extends the past and future into the present listening moment... this is as good a definition of consciousness  as might be....<br />As a non-musician, this book is a great tutorial in music, with brilliant insights into the human mind.	2001-05-01
US	51899704	R2BDV7MJC0LAJH	0140292594	363901167	Breakout: The Chosin Reservoir Campaign, Korea 1950	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Tremendous Moving Story; NEEDS MAPS!	This is a mesmerizing read.  The cold weather, isolation of American marines, fighting through the hills of Korea to move down a one road narrow mountain defile to the sea...  Chosin is an epic battle.  This book tells the story, weaving personal courage and the story of planning and logistics together into a clear telling of how the Marines survived against multiple Chinese divisions.<br />You come away from this book with tremendous respect and sympathy for the Chinese soldiers.  The author supports the Marine view of events, but is fair to others, including the woeful but useful Army units.  Personal stories are woven into the text, based on numerous interviews with surviving Marines.<br />Like all military stories, more maps would have helped.  It was irritating to see a tiny map, then read about a battle on a hill NOT marked on the tiny map.  The text largely makes up for this problem.  The book makes you shiver from cold, and from respect for the Marines.	2001-03-08
US	51899704	R1VL34IFG83A2I	0761519645	910224725	God: The Evidence: The Reconciliation of Faith and Reason in a Postsecular World	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Pop God, pop science, but fun to read for us pop readers.	There is no possible reconciliation of faith and reason (even in a post secular world).  The subtitle of the book raises expectations too high.  What this book does present is a weakening of the Enlightenment divide between faith and reason.  The two can possibly inform each other; science does not prove the Death of God.<br />This book moves from physics to medicine, post-death experiences to the mathematical &quot;accident&quot; of human life.  If ice was heavy enough to sink, would life have been possible?  If carbon was not a by-product of solar fusion, would planets form life?  If enough monkeys type, can the play they produce really and statistically be called an accident?  The book tries to weave a variety of scientific arguments that buttress the existence of God.<br />But the book does not add up; the very word &quot;evidence&quot; in the title is contentious as to its meaning...people feel better if they believe. Is this evidence for an ontological proof of God?  Well, what would &quot;evidence&quot; look like?<br />The book offers hope to a believer, that maybe science is not inimical to belief.  But I think that this is becoming well established, by better sourced writers.  This book is entertaining pop-God writing, but ultimately unconvincing.<br />If God had wanted reason to provide a finished and carpeted pathway to God, why would faith even be necessary?  It is the hope of people who feel caught by cold scientific rationalism that somehow that very science will suddenly stand on its head and prove God, and provide a way out of their dilemma.  Sadly, I think this is an always-blocked road; this book cannot open up the path.  So the book over-reaches, but is fun to read, even if just for the delightful come-uppance delivered to Richard Rorty for his many incoherences.	2001-03-02
US	51899704	R24ZRYL6WMGP1X	0671695347	54048304	About Face: The Odyssey of an American Warrior	Books	3	25	41	N	N	Great warrior spins his story.	At first, one is impressed with Hackworth.  That persists.  But then, as this overly long autobiography progresses, you begin to sense that he is spinning the story a bit, shading things to make his case look a bit stronger.<br />Hackworth downplays the sloppiness of his command in Vietnam,and emphasizes his moral courage in taking an anti-war stance.  Perhaps this is true, but it reads as a self-serving gloss.<br />The story he tells is by turns fascinating and too long.  His interest in his own partying and sometimes dopey opinions on the world is emphasized to the deteriment of his story.  Instead of a man with something to tell, a story, we also have a man with something to say, a political viewpoint that is tendentious, boring, and somewhat disingenuous.<br />But if you turn to his discussion of his service in Italy, and his Korean War service, you see the grit and intelligence of the man, what made him a good soldier.<br />So, if you can skim the parts where Hackworth spouts off, and read his story, you will be reading the tale of one of America's greatest warriors.  The rest is uninteresting.  It is true that men and women who have suffered for their nation have a right to have their opinions heard.  But, given that their views range from Hackworth to Senator Bob Kerrey. and from erudite to crude, it is not always true that their opinions have merit.  With Hackworth, that is too often the case, although he is a great warrior and has a real story to tell.	2001-03-01
US	51899704	R14AB3PTVMQQZG	0886774667	308594529	The Initiate Brother: Book 1	Books	5	20	24	N	Y	Politics, war, battle, love, mysticism: story telling!	This two volume story is elegant, moving, and fun.  The monk, Shuyun, comes to be spiritual advisor to the Shonto family.  From there, we have intrigue with the emperor, a barbarian invasion, complex politics, wild battles, and an elegant fictionalized China, complete with lovely poetry.  Buy both volumes at once, and throw away the remote control.	2001-02-05
US	51899704	R227I7OCGX70ZW	0886775361	928031441	Gatherer of Clouds (The Initiate Brother, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Moving conclusion to &quot;The Initiate Brother&quot;.	This two volume story is elegant, moving, and fun.  The monk, Shuyun, comes to be spiritual advisor to the Shonto family.  From there, we have intrigue with the emperor, a barbarian invasion, complex politics, wild battles, and an elegant fictionalized China, complete with lovely poetry.  In this volume, we have a running battle with a huge barbarian army, as the Shonto family is caught between the emperor and the barbarians.  The brother Shuyun is caught between his duties and a woman, in a very satisfying love story.  Excellent story.	2001-02-05
US	51899704	R1WUCNF9DYP1PN	0446675261	358551426	Backflash (Parker Novels)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	A heist on a riverboat casino with twists!	This book starts with a bang, moves through a mystery to a heist, and then deals with problems, clean up, and near disaster.  Along the way, we see the incredibly detailed story of exactly how a gambling ship might be ripped off.  We watch Parker, the hero of this series of books, as he plans, executes, and then cleans up little messes.  These stories are very fun to read, combining well researched detail with a fast pace.<br />  In this book, there is one character that stands out -- the retired state employee, disgruntled, unhappy, who leads Parker to the gambling ship.  I work in state government.  I have met this guy.  He rings entirely true. His inclusion in the story makes the logic of the caper work, adds intrigue, and allows the author to create the sort of character seldom seen in fiction -- an interesting functionary.  These books are good fun.	2001-02-02
US	51899704	R52A9M1PZ812K	1573221201	144250243	Shakespeare: The Invention of the Human	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Wonderful resource on plays, jointly with intriguing essay.	Bloom admits that his theory, that Shakespeare's plays helped invent what it is to be human, is a conceit that is unproveable.  He is also right, in that this conceit helps tell the story of the plays in a way that illuminates the genius of Shakespeare.<br />  This is a wonderful book to have on your shelf if you are going to go to one of the plays.  Each play gets its own chapter, and by reading them you can discover what to look for in the words of the play, and in the performance.<br />  Read the entire book cover to cover?  I have, but most won't want to... there are obscure plays discussed at length, and after awhile the reader begins to skip over plays that hold no interest.  There are surprising revelations that you might hate to miss... the Falstaffiad, the three plays where Falstaff is revealed to be Shakespeare's greatest, most humanizing charcter.... The beginning and ending essays are fun to read, even for a non-English major.<br />  This is a rich and challenging book, a grand resource, but a bit long of tooth unless you are embracing Shakespeare and attending many performances.  If you are, this book would be invaluable to you.	2001-01-30
US	51899704	R266TT0O17F5F5	0446674656	149997579	Comeback	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Criminal adventure, intricate heists, fun read.	Parker is a heister, a man who plans and carries out major thefts with the help of other heisters, chosen for the job at hand.  He is unabashedly a crook.  The stakes are real -- if you are hurt on a job, you will likely be killed by your partners who want to ensure their safety.<br />  In this book, Parker is ripping off a televangelist, at a stadium prayer revival.  Things start going wrong after his team gets the money.  The story is gripping, and a fast read.  The author stays true to the characters and situation.<br />  There is an entire genre of fiction -- Block's hitman series, Max Allan Collins' Quarry novels, and these fine novels about Parker -- that involve criminal men acting within their criminal impulses in adventurous situations.  For some reason I am drawn to these stories -- they offer no moral redemption, but have a hard boiled honesty about the human condition.  And they are fun to read. probably because your average white bread suburbanite loves to imagine a transgressive life of adventurous crime.	2001-01-29
US	51899704	R1STBAK56BTMDT	0465072690	447841735	Words And Rules: The Ingredients Of Language (Science Masters Series)	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Difficult read, one suspects this book is much ado...	One suspects that this book by Steven Pinker is worthy of a long paper, even two, but that it has been extended to book length through repetitive examples.<br />  The central insight -- that memorized words and word parts combine with a general set of rules to form the basis of language  -- is repeatedly presented by Pinker as new, innovative, insightful.  Pinker is a good writer, and his phrase-making abilities do make this mildly fun to read, but given the fact that most of the audience for this book consists of non-linguistic experts, one begins to wonder how much of the self-promotion is justified.<br />  Why does every language have a mixture of regular and irregular forms?  &quot;Each mixture arises when unique historical events -- conquest, immigration, trade, fads in speaking -- are handled by an unchanging mental tool kit, which contains a frequency and similarity-loving associative memory and a promiscuous combinatorial grammar.&quot;  (page 229) This says it all -- Pinker goes on to inform us that &quot;the human mind is a hybrid system, learning fuzzy associations and crisp rules in different subsystems&quot;.  (page 279)<br />  These insights are interesting, but I think are far more intuitive than the author would have us believe.  I also suspect that the entire book could be reduced to a twenty page article and 40 pages of foot notes.  The average reader slogs through the endless grammatical examples and begins to wonder why they need to read so much to learn these excellent points.<br />  Linguistics is a discipline of which much is made from fine points.  My own bias is that linguistics is at best an informative field, informing broader areas of philosophy, biology, genetics, and sociology.  This book attempts to drive many points home while riding the one track, liguistics, and while it does inform, it also bores the reader.  This is the sort of book that a better writer cites... and that a reader with general interests can safely skip.	2001-01-29
US	51899704	R2F9OQAAOQAYTR	0812277422	791773279	The Restructuring of Social and Political Theory	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Removes blinders from the eyes of any sociologist.	This book examines the practice of social science from several angles, like turning a sea shell slowly in your hand, looking at the curves and openings and aspects.  The author accomplishes this by looking at social science through the eyes of empirical, phenomenological, critical, and analytical social scientists.<br />Sound boring?  It isn't -- and you can learn from each perspective.  You can also learn why there is no one right approach.  Some questions fit better into one framework, some into another.  Any social scientist who weds him/herself to a given approach is wearing blinders.  This book removes those limitations.  Ideologies become tools for social examination. This book should be the starting point for any social science student.	2001-01-19
US	51899704	R86Q9T5O44RNE	0060175869	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	4	23	24	N	Y	Fascinating History and Essay Combined -- but obtuse.	This book is a grand review of the past five hundred years of cultural history.  It is also an essay written by a fascinating man, as he wanders through what he considers important.  The two threads sometimes unravel, making for difficult reading.<br />  Warning: As you read this book, you will be tempted to buy a hundred more books mentioned in the text -- Tasso sounds fascinating, why not read his stories?<br />  The author has a clear view, but is honest about showing it -- the title gives it away.  The decadence he sees is intellectual, spiritual, cultural... a grossness of sensualism, a dumbing down of high culture, various trends that appear in capitals (PRIMITIVISM).  These views make the historical work juicier, but a tad more tendentious.<br />  My one complaint is that the book reads a bit choppy, as the author writes in short hand, introducing topics suddenly, and moving on from them quickly.  This requires an adjustment by the reader, but has a certain charm if you can get used to it.  The book is rich and anyone who reads it needs some weeks, some good Port, and a comfortable chair.<br />  One question: why do you WANT to read a history of the past five hundred years?  If it is simply to re-affirm your belief in western decadence, skip this book.  The work is cultured and layered and will strongly challenge simplistic preconceptions while confirming a thesis that the west has been in decline.  This is a Big Read -- it takes time, thought, patience, and work by the reader.<br />  I started reading the book five months ago, and have been picking it up off and on since then, finishing recently. The book needs this sort of time, and is worth the investment, but only if you have the desire.	2001-01-18
US	51899704	R1QONAZ4FSJROI	0375700005	59272361	Your Baby and Child: From Birth to Age Five (Revised Edition)	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Best and most user friendly advice book in existence.	When our child reaches a new stage, my wife and I immediately consult this book.  Time and again, her common sense works.  For example, the Penelope method for teaching a child to put him/herself to sleep worked in two nights.<br />  Written in a friendly fashion, open about giving advice, stern about bad parenting habits, flexible because children are diverse...  Penelope Leach distills the common sense and practical advice of a dozen grandmothers.  There could not be a better advice book for raising a child.	2001-01-10
US	51899704	RWTGXEL1FMYMC	0684863650	467944200	Eye Of The Storm: A Civil War Odyssey	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Story weaving war, art, incredible Civil War sojourn.	Robert Sneden served as a map maker during the early years of the Civil War, and finished his war in the Andersonville prison camp.  Recent discoveries of his drawings and diary have allowed this book to be published.  The story is breath taking, a personal sojourn through the mud and battle of America's great tradgedy.<br />  The book is well edited.  Brief italicized passages place the reader within the context of the battles and time.  Sneden spent most of his time as a staff member at the Division and Corp levels, allowing him to see a wider view of the war than most.  He drew maps, but he also drew many sketches.  These provide a visual beauty to the book.<br />  The water colors were obviously created after the war, and the diary entries were also updated from memory.  His style as an artist is horizontal, with landscapes and muted muddy colors and great details, a map maker who draws the world around him.<br />  Sneden was an interesting man, with some bigotries, and some brilliant insights.  His frustration with the generalship of the Army of the Potomac is shared by the reader.  His description of prison life in Andersonville reminds me of the book King Rat, and is both evocative, realistic, and saddening.<br />  The wealth of detail is incredible -- early balloon experiments, the frustrations of mud, dysentery, and nature, and the incredible rapaciousness of the average soldier (digging up church cornerstones in search of souvenirs).  Thse details are fascinating, but they are encapsulated within a story of great scope -- one man's war that mirrors the entire Civil War.<br />  Sneden was an artist, a good commentator, and he got around.  The result is a true story, fascinating for both the civil war buff and the average reader.  A tremendous book.	2001-01-10
US	51899704	RO8MRNYCY247Q	0060198338	588826635	Hit List	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great story telling, but lacks soul.	Lawrence Block creates a book length version of the hit man character found in an earlier compendium of short stories.  Keller, and his partner Dot, do jobs across the country.  And they are jobs, or work, and just that.<br />Block is a master story teller.  He weaves small details, love stories, jury duty, and the niggling facts of every day life into the story of a man who has found his place in life, killing other people.  The point seems to be that in a complex society full of millions of niches, this man has found his natural place, killing other people for money.  And doesn't that make for a fun interesting read.  Even the conflict with another hit man is less than enthralling -- just well told.<br />The problem I have is this:  Keller is written as the most boring of hit men, his small quirks barely rippling the waters of his placid life.  He is the Mr. Whipple of killers, white bread and potatoes with white sauce.  The mesmerizing style and taut writing of Block catch you up and you love the read, but you are left wanting something heavier, spicier, with more oomph.<br />Block is clearly writing against the grain of his character for effect.  He never describes Keller's deadliness, or his murders. The book and the character remind me of The Accidental Tourist.  The book is a matter of fact, often funny, but ultimately soulless book about a hit man.<br />If Block's Scudder novels are often full meals, this is a snack book, and a sorta good one.	2001-01-04
US	51899704	R3C3BGR5WEQJUV	0395659949	278691326	Ulysses S. Grant: Triumph Over Adversity, 1822-1865	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	Brilliant Narrative of Fascinating Man At War.	U.S. Grant is a difficult man for modern readers to understand.  He was tenacious to the point of being dogged, a battler who saved some of the lives of his men by fighting and thereby losing others; a man of sensivitivy whose habits were the topic of great gossip and some truth.<br />  This book reads easily, as a smooth story of a difficult man.  This author captures some of the battles in a very clear fashion, specifically the Battle of the Wilderness.  One comes away with an understanding of the strategy, the reality, the messiness and the role Grant played for better and worse.<br />  By weaving the political realities with the battles, and leavening both with an understanding of how Grant's private life was impacted, this author comes closer to capturing what happened to this man than most military histories can ever do.  But the book also sheds light on the military realities.<br />  This is a good book. And the nuanced approach will lend itself to the forthcoming second volume -- about Grant's later life and Presidency.  That should be an eye opener.	2000-12-08
US	51899704	R29VJ8ULVKFWVQ	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A book about time travel that ignores conundrums?	When a group of archaeologists is forced to travel back in time to the middle ages, will they change history?  Change their own lives?  How does time travel interact with history?  This book ignores these questions entirely, in favor of having the main characters jump around like a bunch of jack rabbits.<br />  So, if the classic problems of time travel fiction are ignored, how is the story told?  Are there relationships worthy of note?  No.  Two potential love stories are barely sketched in.<br />  O.K., how about some educational conflicts between twentieth century characters and medieval realities?  There is some of this -- characters are surprised at how strong men and women who work with physical labor were, there are some interesting medieval technologies presented... but the setting is barely utilized.<br />  So what is here?  A movie script. Some babes, some brawny guys, a lot of sword fighting, and that is about it.  Instead of a potential classic, we have popcorn fare.  Each character is presented with just enough detail to guide a casting director.  Crichton is basically publishing a rough draft of his movie outline here.  I suggest that you wait for the movie, and if gets a decent re-write, it might be worth seeing.  Ignore the book unless you really really love this sort of stuff.	2000-12-08
US	51899704	R12XCXULDS33OD	067400163X	797622772	A War To Be Won: Fighting the Second World War	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Brilliantly Written Story of War as a Work In Progress.	Fighting a war that lasts a decade or more, as World War II did, means  work in every sense of the word.  This book clearly outlines the managerial  decisions of the 1930s, the weapons development snafus, the strategic  waffling and incoherence, and the moments of brilliant and sustained  innovation... the work of men and women in making and fighting a war.<br />  Told in an engaging manner, the book is opinionated.  Bradley is a jealous  and dour man; MacArthur is a hypochondriac who is disengaged from his  troops and whose indecision cost America any chance to defend the  Phiilipines at the beginning of the War; Patton is the only American  general who prepared himself for World War II through study.  Montgomery is  a great general... the British were poor at promoting good men who had done  well in lesser posts.<br />  The book breaks down the war into strategic  decisions, and operational decisions.  This book provides an amazingly  clear story of what the nations thought they were up to.... the authors do  not shy away from showing managerial incompetence.  Along the way, it  becomes clear that a war this big is in fact a work in progress, a  sustained effort that involves as much human error as it does genius, as  much simple management as it does courage and bravery.<br />  In this era  of &quot;quick wars&quot;, it is fascinating to consider World War II as  almost a way of life for the world, and as this book makes clear, as a way  of work.  On a pure military level, this book provides the clarity and  overview that is lacking in a book such as Keegan's World War II.... The  work is informative not only about history and the war, but about how men  and women work over time to accomplish great goals.<br />  If you are only  going to read one military history this decade, this is the one to read.	2000-09-06
US	51899704	R23RUWXWTFKUYK	0399145877	953931509	Hugger Mugger: A Spenser Novel (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Crackling character and wit sustains lazy plot.	Robert Parker has created one of the best detective characters in fiction  history.  In this book, he lets the main character, Spenser, run on  autopilot in a half smart, half lazy plot.  We are in the South,  where Spenser is investigating a murder that starts with some horse  shootings.  This allows the author to explore new territory.  Hawk,  Spenser's side kick, is not in this book, but Spenser is witty and explores  the South with panache.  The beginning of the story is well designed, and  the reader gets excited, thinking that this might be one of the really good  Spenser novels.<br />  But the story peters out, the murder investigation  stalls, Spenser becomes sort of a group therapist to some wacked out minor  characters, and the book ends with an incoherent resolution.  Without  giving anything away, is it really likely that Spenser can just walk into a  room and make people break down and spill their guts?<br />  I love the  Spenser series, but this one reads like the author grew bored and did not  bother finishing the plot.  Like Double Deuce, this book relies on an  ending that is artificial and unlikely.  Along the way we get too much of  the usual Susan mooning, which is boring.  Read this book only if you never  miss any in this series.  Otherwise, hope that the next one reads more like  Walking Shadow than like this half right effort.	2000-08-14
US	51899704	RQR5R42Y5M4JK	0385323891	706730548	Kaaterskill Falls	Books	3	21	28	N	Y	Smooth writing, good story telling, plot a bit tedious.	The vacation community of Kaaterskill Falls is dominated by townies and the Kirshner community of Jews, who leave Washington Heights every summer and spend the summer in this lovely New York town.  This book chronicles  the lives of the Kirshner Jews, intertwining stories of the Rav, the leader  of the community, and his struggles with his two sons, with stories of a  Jewish woman, Elizabeth, who struggles with the operation of a store and  the unexpected birth of a new child.  Minor characters flesh out the feel  of a Jewish community in the 1970s.<br />  The writing and story telling is  so smooth that you come to enjoy each character, and to look forward to  their exposition.  Characters are vivid -- even if they do not develop  much.<br />  The book falls short on several levels.  First, you do not  learn anything useful or telling about Jewish life in America. The  Kirshners are in many senses a fringe community, but not a particularly  interesting one.  Their struggles with acculturization are not well told,  and their conflicts with the townies are muted and uninteresting.  Second,  you do not learn anything fun or useful about vacations in America -- this  very much wastes the backdrop of Kaaterskill Falls.  Some plot elements  seem forced -- a mysterious car accident seems to have no real plot  purpose.<br />  This book is ultimately about relationships -- sons and  fathers, brothers, husbands, wives, kids.  It is about orthodoxy and rule  bound religion and what it means to be a good person.  The book is a good  read and fun, but stops short of penetrating any great questions or  developing any character too well, too deep, with too much meaning.	2000-07-25
US	51899704	R1QTT2E4457OQ3	0195037979	383423986	Wartime: Understanding and Behavior in the Second World War	Books	5	92	98	N	N	Removes the cartoon caricatures from WWII History.	World War II was defended, at the time, as a high minded war.  In recent  years, historians have viewed the war in a monolithic way -- the Good War,  the Crusade, the most legitimate use of American power...<br />Fussell  corrects this view by adding nuance, by capturing the background.  His  essays on the culture of wartime range from music to literature, radio to  army camp life, scatological humor to the horrors of battle.  The result is  a rare and unusual history, which captures some of the variability of this  large war.<br />The book reads well.  Most chapters can be read as stand  alone essays, but read as a whole the book builds a layered depiction of  the back lines, the home front, and the fighting man.<br />The last chapter  horrifies and moves the reader. Fussell has a goal of helping to bring  Americans to a greater maturity about behavior during war, and the costs of  battle.  It is clear that America is immature about battle and death --  witness the end of the Gulf War -- and that this has a cost in how we  pursue foreign policy.<br />Great book, great read, excellent corrective to  the outsized heroic histories of the war.	2000-07-07
US	51899704	R27YXXK282G47J	0375700455	841119426	The First World War	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Long on Details and Short on Strategic Overview.	This book mirrors Keegan's one volume history of World War II.  As general histories, both books are steady droning compendiums of endless details.  Keegan is understated about strategic situations, and fails to viscerally  capture the turning points of the battles and wars, leaving the reader  slogging through battles and decisions with too little context.<br />The maps  are inadequate.  The reader becomes quickly lost in left flank and right  flank and one french village after another, losing the mental picture of  events in Keegan's droning narrative.<br />I would reccommend Keegan's other  excellent books, the Face of Battle and the Mask of Command.  There Keegan  exercises the narrative story telling of a master historian.  This history  reads like an encyclopedia article.  It is comprehensive but uninformative.  One feels that one has read all about the war, but absorbed little.	2000-06-27
US	51899704	R2IC5N8X1DKT78	0268006113	945103806	After Virtue: A Study in Moral Theory, Second Edition	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Book is Worthy Attempt to Restore Fragmented Moral Debates.	This book captures the nature of modern moral debate: shattered, fragmented, with pieces of concepts bandied about in bad faith by people substituting arrogance for erudition.<br />Macintyre describes the emotivist  nature of modern moral thought, the attempt to relegate moral discussion to  a &quot;personal&quot; matter.  He argues that this is the nadir, the deep  dark hole we have fallen into -- moral thought was once clear and precise,  offering real choices.  His view depends on Aristotle, and attempts to show  the wrong turns of the Englightenment.<br />The book is sweeping, which makes  for some jumpy reading.  He asserts some points which he does not want to  bother to prove.  There is almost a rushed feeling to some of the  arguments, as if he wants to get them on the table very fast.<br />The  argument boils down to an attempt to begin a restoration of moral debate,  by picking up pieces and polishing the shards.  His attempt is to show a  historical nature to moral arguments, sited within social contexts, and to  show that this in fact offers a strength to moral debate, rather than a  weakening through relativism.<br />If you wonder why everyone seems to be  talking past each other, and why moral discussion is nigh unto impossible  to sustain, this book offers answers.  It is a worthy beginning, or maybe a  last diagnosis before the curtain falls.  Read it to understand why we are  what C.S. Lewis calls &quot;men without chests&quot;.	2000-06-21
US	51899704	RN67ASRTRTL4E	0374235171	572934873	Opened Ground: Selected Poems, 1966-1996	Books	5	41	44	N	Y	Heaney's Natural, Witty, Brilliant Poems In One Volume.	Seamus Heaney is a master poet who connects nature, emotion, and even plot, in a brilliant and particularly Irish poetry.  These poems are accessible to non-English majors.  I read them out loud to my wife at  night.  They elicit a reaction that begins at emotional imagery, veers into  thought, and ends up touching your soul. One of the immortal greats of the  English language is writing and publishing now, and this book is  indispensable.	2000-04-18
US	51899704	RFY2KHTP31KFG	0679442529	861058090	Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Adds more to knowledge than the time it takes to read.	Non-Zero is an very good book, showing an arc to human (and physical, biological, natural) history. That arc is complexity, and cooperation, through the additive effects of cooperation.<br />The book is readable, almost chatty. The author fleshes out a truth long known by sociologists. Emile Durkheim stated the thesis most cogently -- the sum of social facts (human society) is greater than their individual parts (given persons). In other words, people who cooperate do big things, like go to the moon, or raise hundreds of bushels of corn, or make movies. The author brings clarity and readability to this thesis.<br /> I do not think that the book is terribly original -- the author cites authoritative sources for nearly every insight he presents. What this book gives is scope, a view that has taken a step back from encrusted academic language and simply communicates it's message.<br />The book is far too hopeful. An example: the author describes the social insurance that comes from potlatch and similar ceremonies, the sharing of material wealth. But surely burning the wealth is a degenerative form of this useful insurance ritual? The author could have explored the entire idea of degeneration in non-zero-sumness -- in other words, when cooperative beneficial behavior becomes perverse -- in better detail. He writes off degenerative social behavior as social dead ends -- which does not particularly help 20 million dead kulaks in Soviet Russia, and won't help 200 million dead Americans if there is a smallpox related terrorist incident.<br />In fact, Wright is far too sanguine about the downsides of cultural evolution, and he is ignorant of the entire literature dealing with the affairs of states as they struggle over diplomacy and war.  His insights translate poorly into an understanding of this century.<br />For his next book, or article, I think Wright should explore counter-examples to his thesis in greater detail. But this book  communicates well a thesis that is particularly important today: the globalization of nonzerosumness -- cooperate or die!<br />The most important line in the book, comes when Wright calls for more love, more cooperation, a greater supply of spiritual well being -- as an antidote to terrorists, angry men, those persons alienated from modern society. Isn't this what the Pope fosters by apologizing? If making Serbians feel a bit more appreciated prevents ambushes, murders, a holocaust, why not?<br />Why not? Well, Wright needs to examine the difference between cooperation and placating the evil... His hopefulness in some ways is an artifact of willful historical ignorance --- or he is criminally naive.<br />It is a compliment to an author that his writing raises these questions. This is the sort of book that entertains, but leaves the reader thinking. That is a high compliment. Wright has gone exploring among the dross and over-written tomes of sociology and anthropology, and mined the gold. The result is a book that is better than the sources it uses. One is left feeling that the author is hugely smug about the analytical wedge he uses to make his points, entirely unwilling to expose the weaknesses his game theory incorporates.<br />But the reader is also left feeling better educated about, and more aware of, of the questions left on the table. Given that these questions are central to the survival of human kind, the book is a good start to thinking about human survival, spiritual growth, and what humans can do when they embrace complexity and cooperate.  In some ways, when Wright is wrong, that is the most important part of the book...cularly important today: the globalization of nonzerosumness -- cooperate or die!<br />The most important line in the book, comes when Wright calls for more love, more cooperation, a greater supply of spiritual well being -- as an antidote to terrorists, angry men, those persons alienated from modern society. Isn't this what the Pope fosters by apologizing? If making Serbians feel a bit more appreciated prevents ambushes, murders, a holocaust, why not?<br />Why not? Well, Wright needs to examine the difference between cooperation and placating the evil... His hopefulness in some ways is an artifact of willful historical ignorance --- or he is criminally naive.<br />It is a compliment to an author that his writing raises these questions. This is the sort of book that entertains, but leaves the reader thinking. That is a high compliment. Wright has gone exploring among the dross and over-written tomes of sociology and anthropology, and mined the gold. The result is a book that is better than the sources it uses. One is left feeling that the author is hugely smug about the analytical wedge he uses to make his points, entirely unwilling to expose the weaknesses his game theory incorporates.<br />But the reader is also left feeling better educated about, and more aware of, of the questions left on the table. Given that these questions are central to the survival of human kind, the book is a good start to thinking about human survival, spiritual growth, and what humans can do when they embrace complexity and cooperate.  In some ways, when Wright is wrong, that is the most important part of the book...	2000-04-10
US	51899704	R3PMY5FT3S43WW	0809105039	118564720	Pius XII and the Second World War: According to the Archives of the Vatican	Books	3	44	60	N	N	A Curious and Interesting But Unsatisfying Book.	After reading the speculative and often fanciful calumnies of &quot;Hitler's Pope&quot; it is natural for a reader to hope that this work will provide a sweeping response.  It does not.<br />This book is factual --  but not analytical, historical, or contextual.  As a result, a reader bogs  down in detail.  The book does a good job of showing the tiny details that  made up the Vatican's work against Hitler and for peace.  The book lacks a  critical overview.<br />Given that it is clear and demonstrable that the  Vatican was for peace in World War II, the next question is one of  effectiveness.  Pius was a diplomat.  This book does not explore whether a  diplomat was the proper and best Church leader during this troubled  time.<br />It is sad that there is any need for this debate, over whether the  Vatican helped Jews &quot;to the best of it's ability&quot;.  The answer is  of course, yes and no!  No human organization is perfect.<br />A better  question is, did Pius do his best as a man -- and the answer is yes, as  this book proves -- and did he do his best as a Pope -- and the answer is  no, because his skills and talents were not those of a moral leader, or a  symbolically attuned leader.  When the Church needed a John Paul II, they  instead had a quiet force for good.  Sometimes that is enough; here it  might have been, barely, for many hundreds of thousands saved by the  Church.  But it was not enough for millions of others, who were not saved,  and probably could not have been short of American armored divisions. That  is an unsatisfying answer, but a true one.<br />This book builds details, in  layers, like a bird building a nest.  It is a frustrating book to read.  The facts accrete, and in the end one is left seeing the disgusting and  weak job of character assassination done in &quot;Hitler's Pope&quot;.  But  the reader also wishes for a better story telling style.  The reader also  wishes for more cogently stated ammunition against the Pope haters, such as  they are.<br />The real word on the Pope, World War II, and the moral  obligations of the Papacy -- that story has yet to be told, as a story.  This book will be a good resource to some future writer who wants honesty,  facts, and can use them to tell the story.as  they are.<br />The real word on the Pope, World War II, and the moral  obligations of the Papacy -- that story has yet to be told, as a story.  This book will be a good resource to some future writer who wants honesty,  facts, and can use them to tell the story.	2000-04-10
US	51899704	R3SJPTVP3K10PV	0312863209	796074142	The Art of Arrow Cutting	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Witty, Engrossing, and Informative.	This book is just plain fun to read.  The author weaves modern America with Japanese mythological monsters, and creates a story line and characters that are fun.  The magic in the story follows a coherent  internal logic, and the characters bleed and suffer and have realistic  personalities and reactions.  The book leaves you hoping for more  adventures using these characters.	2000-04-06
US	51899704	R31P684POUOHHW	0312858876	324942068	An Exaltation of Larks	Books	2	4	6	N	Y	Well Written Twaddle; Leaves Reader Curiously Dispirited.	The plot is a gloss on a silly time travel/transcendence of Universe theme; a half-smart quasi-Buddhist shtick that leaves one feeling empty and cheated when the story finally unfolds.  Along the way we get some generic  and purposeless sex, and a story that is supposed to be mysterious and  edgy.  I give the book a second star because the author writes well, and  phrases his silly plot in good style.  Perhaps a good rule for science  fiction that dips into quasi-crystal channeling mysticism might be to  embrace some final meaning, either dark or light.  This book leaves one  muddled and unhappy, not thoughtful or uplifted.  I cannot reccomend the  book, but the author writes well enough to deserve more chances.	2000-04-03
US	51899704	RCT222E0H3IE7	0380725355	997279820	Everybody Dies (Matthew Scudder)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Great Fun; Some Small Flaws But A Grand Read.	Scudder is the most fresh and original detective in ongoing fiction.  He out-grits Spenser; he has a place in New York that provides an endlessly interesting landscape.  In this episode, Spenser is facing the violence  associated with his good friend Mick Ballou, which has bled into his life.  A friend is killed; a gang war breaks out, he is dragged into the mess,  and to save himself is forced to move one step closer to the blurry line  between criminal and detective.  This is a grand story.<br />There are a few  problems -- Scudder acts a bit un-Scudderian.  For example, he suddenly  wears a bulletproof vest.  Some convenient little plot devices move him  around into one too many coincidences (wearing the same clothes as his  friend!)  But these small rough spots do not marr the final product.<br />This  episode is a bit more of a shoot-out and a rollicking adventure than it is  a mystery or a whodunit.  That is OK, it is good to alternate within a  series.<br />Scudder is growing closer to the edge, becoming more criminal  and less clearly on the side of the law.  The dynamic tension this creates  should yield several more good books.  Will Scudder's view of justice lead  him over the line into law breaking?  Will he be seduced into thinking that  convenience for himself is a form of justice?  What does a tired  ex-alcoholic criminally inclined detective do next?<br />Buy the book, read  it, enjoy the story.	2000-04-03
US	51899704	REP4OK0Z5PCQN	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	3	4	8	N	Y	Mild wit and gentle story telling, tends to run long.	The classic, Three Men In A Boat (to say nothing of the dog) is the inspiration for this mildly funny book.  The classic is better, being written in a past era, rather than about a past era.  This book is a work  of gentle wit and slow story telling, which seems to match the pace of a  slow boat ride up a lazy river.  At times the central love story seems  contrived, and the time travel is not well plotted.... arbitrary jumping  around instead of clever construction.  I like the book, but it does not  jump out and bite you.  A good read for slow days.	2000-03-30
US	51899704	R1S6VQV2PI6DLP	0441084214	226182319	Full Moonster	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent weave of fantasy, magic, combat.	This book is the final in what has been a three book series (so far).  The series showcases the adventures of a team of FBI agents in Bureau 13, who fight evil and magical beasts and monsters.  The series is witty, fast  paced, and just plain fun.  The author does not make the mistake of leaving  the comic-book violence entirely cost-free; characters pay prices for their  pain.  This is fluff, but fun fluff.  The reader is left wanting more.	1999-06-18
US	51899704	R3N66QCQ3CRAI0	0441225306	832408663	The Face In The Frost	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Tremendous literate and literary story told in breezy fashion.	This book is tremendous, combining wit, a talking mirror, a journey with two wizards, a real sense of evil that needs to be fought, plot, detail, brevity...  Should be part  of any standard library of magical fiction.	1999-06-18
