US	51901879	R7SWSXUOYB67A	0515135100	685735325	Ride the Wind Home	Books	1	9	11	N	N	Shallow with weak characterizations	I have liked other books by Christina Kingston, but RIDE THE WIND HOME was the first book in a long time to make me really angry.  There has been a lot of media coverage lately about how romance heroines are \\"evolving\\" into strong, independent women--anyone who thinks that's true should take a look at this book, which demonstrates just how tightly the \\"ideal\\" of female submissiveness is ingrained into the industry.<br />Diana, the story's heroine, is (the author tells us) a strong, independent woman.  So then why does she allow her father to pick husbands for her?  I can understand when she was sixteen, but the second time is stretching the bonds of credibility.  And, as she has her own fortune, one has to wonder why she doesn't just live by herself.  Kingston may tell us she's strong and independent, but Diana's actions indicate that she can't do anything without another person's help and approval.  She trains herself in self-defense (as if a woman in the nineteenth century would actually do that), yet spends all of the book depending on Smythington for defense, being nice to her father which he clearly doesn't deserve, reacting passively to everything every man does to her, and then making excuses for them!  Aaaargh!  Push her forward a hundred and fifty years, and she'd make a great Stepford wife.<br />Beside my principle objections to the story, this book is, to put is simply, badly written.  It starts off wonderfully in the prologue, with Smythington as a likable, original, and interesting hero, and real chemistry between him and Diana.  There is also a great, ready-made conflict to move the story along.  But Kingston demolishes all of these factors almost immediately:  the \\"conflict\\" dies, and Diana and Smythington spend most of the first half of the book apart, which is not only completely nonsensical for a romance novel, but BORING!!!!!  I knew when I started this book that Kingston doesn't tend to think about plot (hence her writing what is essentially the same book four or more times), but this one apparently was not even edited to smooth out the wrinkles.<br />The most annoying aspect of RIDE THE WIND HOME, however, were the completely illogical characterizations.  I've never encountered so many characters with absolutely irrational personality traits.  The father is kind and sweet, yet he marries his daughter off at the first opportunity to a cruel, lecherous swine?  An overweight man who hesitates to kill a fly, yet is somehow an expert marksman, swordsman, horseman, and highly decorated army officer?  In fact, NONE of these characters behave consistently and that, combined with a story that would try the patience of Tolstoy, is what finally made me put this book down.<br />RIDE THE WIND HOME is, to put it mildly, not one of Kingston's better books.  Try RIDE THE WINTER WIND instead and give this one a pass.same book four or more times), but this one apparently was not even edited to smooth out the wrinkles.<br />The most annoying aspect of RIDE THE WIND HOME, however, were the completely illogical characterizations.  I've never encountered so many characters with absolutely irrational personality traits.  The father is kind and sweet, yet he marries his daughter off at the first opportunity to a cruel, lecherous swine?  An overweight man who hesitates to kill a fly, yet is somehow an expert marksman, swordsman, horseman, and highly decorated army officer?  In fact, NONE of these characters behave consistently and that, combined with a story that would try the patience of Tolstoy, is what finally made me put this book down.<br />RIDE THE WIND HOME is, to put it mildly, not one of Kingston's better books.  Try RIDE THE WINTER WIND instead and give this one a pass.	2003-05-23
US	51901879	R14EO6ESTBLUVF	0060084707	199807151	A Scandalous Lady	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Historically Inaccurate, but Fun!	If this novel had been published in the 1880's, it would have been called a penny dreadful.  Nowadays, we call it a romance--and it's a really good book!<br />A SCANDALOUS LADY is the story of Faith, a lost heiress, who meets the &quot;prince of her dreams&quot; while robbing him.  He whisks her away to his &quot;castle,&quot; where she makes several enemies who try to do her harm, while she struggles to rescue and help everyone from the cook to the unfriendly villagers.  Meanwhile, she and the baron fall in love.<br />The main problem with this book is that Morgan clearly wants to write a Regency; unfortunately, because of the prequel to this story, she has to set it as a late Victorian.  Mentions of Bow Street Runners, powdered hair, and other historical inconsistencies don't detract from the wonderful story however, which does have a very Victorian feel, and is engrossing from start to--well, not QUITE the end, but it's close.  The two main characters are likable and make a great couple, and most of the secondary characters are interesting as well.<br />Morgan's not a great writer, that's true, but she does know how to tell a great story, and I'm not going to quibble over semantics and details when she managed to create a story I really liked and characters that I felt attached to.  If you enjoy romance novels for the sheer pleasure and escapism of reading them, then you will most likely enjoy this book!	2003-05-20
US	51901879	R80JKB48VCLEE	0380818078	940138604	When It's Perfect (Avon Romantic Treasures)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Elements of gothic novel and cozy mystery--unusual, engaging	When It's Perfect is not \\"perfect,\\" but I do have to say that it is one of the best and most original books I've read this year. Ashworth places the protagonist, Mary, in Cornwall, isolated within the house of the enigmatic--and absent--Earl of Renn. When the earl's young sister dies mysteriously, however, he returns to untangle the riddles surrounding her last weeks alive.<br />When It's Perfect has a wonderful, gothic atmosphere. The Renn family is not a happy one, a detail which Ashworth demonstrates with great subtlety and insight that heightens the tension in the story. The novel also has the feeling of a cozy mystery, with Christine's death in the enclosed environment of the Renns' household and the earl, Marcus, who is essentially an outsider, trying to \\"solve\\" it.<br />The best part of When It's Perfect, however, is the relationship between Marcus and Mary. I found it completely believable that they loved each other, liked one another, and should be together--in fact, I thought they were perfect for one another. This is more than I can say for most romance novels, including Ashworth's Someone Irresistible. There was just enough sexual tension in the novel, and both Marcus and Mary were likable and interesting.<br />Not that this book didn't have problems--the conclusion was lame, and why does Ashworth remind us of the plot to Someone Irresistible, which was so ridiculous it would be better for her to just pretend it never happened and move on. Also, Marcus' attempts at \\"romancing\\" Mary occassionally strayed into what I would think of as sexual harrassment, and Mary's revelation concerning what happened to both her and Christine could have been executed A LOT better than it was. Ashworth's prose has also lost a lot of its unique rythym and texture in this novel, no doubt due to the lovely Avon editors who strive to make all writers sound the same.<br />Beyond that, however, When It's Perfect is truly an excellent romance with a very good story-line. Ashworth is definitely thinking more about her characters and their interactions in the world they live in; I greatly look forward to her next novel.h is definitely thinking more about her characters and their interactions in the world they live in; I greatly look forward to her next novel.	2002-12-24
US	51901879	R437TSKD2X7IQ	0505524856	599101636	The Shadow Prince (Heartspell)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A departure that doesn't seem to work.	Ever since Zimlich's first novel, NOT QUITE PARADISE, I have loved her books.  I was really excited about the SHADOW PRINCE because the premise sounded so intruiging and I love Zimlich's writing style.  However, I think that this novel is, unfortunately, her worst to date.<br />While book is set during the time of the Median empire, the setting didn't feel ancient at all--it felt like a typical Middle Ages story that could have taken place anywhere in Europe.  I had to constantly remind myself of the fact that it WASN'T.<br />Furthermore, the book is simply uninteresting.  The main characters hardly talk to one another (sex seems to be the entire basis of their relationship), and neither have any sort of personality, especially the heroine.  Then there are the long spans of time Zimlich just skips over, which detracts from the narrative tension, and the EXTREMELY long soliloquies centering around the antics of the Median king, his son, his wife, and his chief commander.  I don't think these scenes are necessary to the plot, and even if they were, I wouldn't care--they are BORING!  I don't care about these characters or the political things happening in the empire, I care about the relationship between the Lorienne and Adrik.  Breaking the flow of the story to insert these subplots seriously detracts from the story itself, especially when the pages could have been better used filling in all those missing gaps of time.<br />While I still liked Zimlich's writing, I think the book was too focused on showing us the Median empire, and even in that endeavor wasn't very successful.  Hopefully by the next book she will have the world of her characters more fixed in her mind, as well as the personalities of her characters coming back to the foreground of the story.	2002-10-10
US	51901879	RIDQ8KQPBLBRX	0345439031	694803293	The Witch Queen	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Feels Like a Retread to Me	Jan Siegel is a wonderful, very poetic and visual author, and her technical skills in this book are at their usual level.  However, I was very disappointed in the story.<br />In the first two books of this trilogy, Siegel showed the reader something new each time.  I will agree that Prospero's Children is the best of these novels and The Dragon Charmer wasn't as good, but at least in The Dragon Charmer we got new, interesting characters such as Moonspittle and Kel, and fascinating pictures of different worlds--the Tree and Hades.<br />In the Witch Queen, however, the only major new character is Luc, and he is not very interesting--at least, he didn't seem that way to me.  Compared to his Atlantean counterpart, he's downright dull, and I didn't feel any sexual tension between him and Fern.  We also didn't get to see anything new in this book.  Essentially, it was just Fern in London and Morgus in Kent, both trying to figure out what the other was up to.  I kept thinking, Why don't you just get over there and find out and get this plot moving somewhere interesting?<br />The magic--the circle casting, the Tree, etc.--is basically what we've seen before.  Even more vexing, the characters from previous books that I liked weren't around that much, and when they did make an appearance, they didn't seem to do anything; it was as if they were present merely for decoration.<br />Finally, I did not like the ending.  It seemed more of a cop-out--on the part of the author AND Fern--than a closure.<br />Essentially, I feel this books lacks the level of creativity and thought that was found in such abundance in Prospero's Children, and less so in The Dragon Charmer.  Even if you do love Jan Siegel, I would recommend that you wait until it comes out in paperback, or get it from the library.	2002-08-31
US	51901879	R31DHU2RD8GXDC	1551669080	794980303	Still Lake	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Not one of her better books....	Anne Stuart is a great novelist, whether she's writing suspense, historical, or contemporary romance.  However, STILL LAKE, while a good book, doesn't in any way compare to what I expect from a writer of Stuart's caliber.<br />The rundown of the plot is that Thomas Griffin was arrested twenty years ago for the murder of his girlfriend--a crime he has no idea whether he committed or not.  Finally, in 2002, curiosity gets the better of him and he returns to the scene of the murder, only to spend the majority of his time butting heads (and other things) with his neighbor, Sophie Davis.<br />The main problems with this book is that the suspense is not suspenseful, and the romance is weak at best.  These are major flaws in a romantic suspense novel.  I guessed who the real murderer was almost immediately--it's blindingly obvious, and one of the biggest disappointments in the book--and the relationship between Thomas and Sophie seems to be based almost entirely on sex and a mutual love of classic cars.  While there were some nice moments between them, I wasn't really convinced they were compatible personalities, let alone in love.<br />Overall, STILL LAKE was okay, but the story was incredibly weak.  It simply did not grip my interest in the way that THE WIDOW, which was an excellent book, and SHADOWS AT SUNSET, also very good, did.  I hope Stuart returns to her usual brilliancy with her next novel.	2002-08-11
US	51901879	R1X27HQNG9IZTU	0312982836	540480198	Shades of Honor (Grayson Brothers, Book 1)	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Impossible Not to Like	Books that win the RWA's Golden Heart are usually excellent, and this one is no exception.  Set in post-Civil War upperstate New York, Shades of Honor has likable, believable characters; a perfectly (or nearly perfectly) plotted story; and, best of all, a great, heart-thumping romance.<br />Evelyn is the heroine, a woman who feels like a misfit because she spends most of her time running around in \\"britches\\" and doing manual labor in her father's livery.  She's engaged to her long-time friend, Kyle, but is already having doubts about the upcoming marriage when Kyle's elder brother comes back home to reclaim his halcyon boyhood (or something).<br />Radford, continuing the tradition of romance heroes with weird names, is haunted by the ever popular battlefield shock syndrome from the Civil War.  He comes home to try and find peace for himself and his daughter, but Kyle is belligerent and he's forced to help out at the neighbor's (Evelyn and her father) livery.  Radford and Evelyn are immediately attracted to one another, but of course Evelyn is engaged to Rad's brother.  Isn't she?<br />I challenge any romance lover not to like this book.  The characters were very fun and likable, especially Evie, and the sexual tension between Radford and Evelyn was palatable.  This is an excellently written novel that deserves to be looked at.<br />So, why did I give Shades of Honor only three stars?  First and foremost, historical novels that take place in America aren't really my cup of tea--they just don't capture my interest.  The fact that this novel was able to do so only adds to my admiration of it, but I still don't like American novels.  Secondly, parts of this book were INCREDIBLY sappy.  I suppose some would call them \\"heart rending,\\" but they were sappy.  Lastly, there was one character (if you could call her that) in this book that I didn't like, and that was Rebecca, who was completely unbelievable and soon strayed into the annoying category.<br />Other than that, this book was great.  I unreservedly recommend it, especially to people interested in American history, the Civil War in particular.  Even if you aren't interested in that, however, Shades of Honor is a great read.book was great.  I unreservedly recommend it, especially to people interested in American history, the Civil War in particular.  Even if you aren't interested in that, however, Shades of Honor is a great read.	2002-07-30
US	51901879	R26T8T1X4D9790	0425185435	619675261	The Suitor	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Definite &quot;Beach Read&quot;	I loved HOW TO KISS A HERO by Sandy Hingston, the first in the &quot;School for Scandal&quot; series, so to be honest I was expecting THE SUITOR to be a bit of a let-down.  After all, how could it possibly be better than its predecessor?<br />THE SUITOR isn't better than HOW TO KISS A HERO--it stands on its own and is really completely different from any book that is (probably) coming out this year.  And I mean that in a good way.<br />Katherine is still self-centered, proud, arrogant, and completely insufferable when the book begins, which is what makes her so much fun!  And Alain, the &quot;suitor,&quot; is appropriately dashing and romantic, etc.  I could definitely sympathize with Katherine throwing herself at him :)--I would have done it sooner than she did!  The poems and gifts that he sent her were sooo romantic.  Sigh!<br />While I did love this book, as usual, there were some things that I didn't like or thought could have been improved upon.  Alain's character, for example--while Katherine is very well-drawn, we receive almost no insight into Alain's character at all!  At the end of the book, I had no idea what he was all about, which was very disappointing, as he could have been interesting.  But, to be fair, Hingston's style is to tell the story almost completely from the heroine's point of view, and I started this book expecting that to be the case.  It was still disappointing, though.<br />Also, what is up with the title of this book?  Alain is hardly a suitor; more like a highly inappropriate dalliance.  And then, of course, there's the completely ridiculous excuse for a plot, but to be honest that didn't bother me at all.  It is a romance novel, after all.<br />Despite these few things, I still loved THE SUITOR.  It's funny, interesting, romantic, and original.  If you're looking for a charming, can't-put-down read for the summer, then I would highly recommend it.	2002-07-13
US	51901879	R1K14QBA0GI3RC	044100900X	301706376	Jenna Starborn	Books	3	26	27	N	N	Familiar in Good and Bad Ways	I love Sharon Shinn, and I loved JANE EYRE when I read it in high school, so I was certain that I would love this book!  And, for the most part, I did enjoy it, but I have to agree with some of the other reviewers here that it isn't Shinn's best work.  In fact, I honestly find myself wondering what possessed her to write JENNA STARBORN at all.<br />The novel starts out very intruigingly, with Jenna as a &quot;manufactured&quot; human mistreated by the human family she lives with.  In this part of the novel, there are some pretty strong resemblances to the Bronte novel, but also a nice twist to make the story fresh and original.<br />Once Jenna goes to Fieldstar, however, all attempts at any stretch of originality, creativity, or imagination are almost entirely demolished.  As I said before, I loved JANE EYRE; but if I want to read JANE EYRE, I'll read Bronte.  I was expecting and anticipating Shinn to put her own twist on the basic premise of the Bronte classic--young woman falls in love with brooding employer, who turns out to be hiding a terrible secret--but I was disappointed in the way she followed J.E. so incredibly closely--she hardly even bothered to change the characters' names!<br />Plus, Shinn is a good writer, but not as good as Charlotte Bronte was, especially at this type of fiction.  Mr. Rochester/Ravenbeck talks as if his life is the climatic scene of a really bad late Victorian melodrama, and I couldn't possibly take him seriously.  On the whole, in face, the characterizations were not very good, even for Jenna's character.  I felt as if the book just skimmed the surface of her life and I still didn't really know her by the end, or even if I would care to know her.  She seems more of a passive observer of her life than even Jane Eyre was.<br />Basically, JENNA STARBORN was more like reading a scene-by-scene copy of JANE EYRE, rather than a &quot;twist&quot; on the original story, which makes me wonder why Shinn even bothered writing it.  If you like JANE EYRE, you will like this book, no doubt about it; but as a work standing on its own it was disappointing.JANE EYRE, you will like this book, no doubt about it; but as a work standing on its own it was disappointing.	2002-05-13
US	51901879	R14WXSAXXJZCLM	0451205650	862200937	The Fortune Hunter	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Surprising and Delightful	There have been dozens upon dozens of Regency romances that center around the plot of Handsome-and-Corrupted-Rake-with-Unrealized-Heart-of-Gold-Attempts-to-Seduce-Innocent-and-Virtuous-Young-Lady-in-Order-to-Win a Bet/Gain a Fortune/Get Back at Someone-Only-to-be-Seduced-Himself.  The Fortune Hunter, of course, uses this very plot, but manages to be fresh and funny and endearing despite the familiarity of the story.<br />I believe this is mostly because of the characters.  Lord Rival (with the improbable first name of George) is calculating, manipulative, and can't cross a street without plotting a way to reap some advantage from it; but this is balanced by an innate sense of fair play and an outrageous sense of humor.  Olivia, as well, is a very well-drawn and likable character.<br />However, the best part of this book is the plot, which veers off from the normal tread of its predecessors very quickly.  I don't want to give any of it away, but I will say that almost all of the plot twists in the book I didn't see coming at all, and they were all written wonderfully to create the most drama and emotional impact for every situation.<br />The only thing I didn't like about this book (there always has to be something!) was George's conversion from rakehell to \\"hero.\\"  I think if the author would have given us more insight into his character, it would have been a much smoother transition.  For example, I know that suddenly George decided he needed to start rebuild his home, but WHY did he suddenly decide this?  His character was a little too ambivilent to leave to question, I think.<br />Besides that minor detail, I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  The characters were likable, believable, and intriguing; the story was fun and interesting; the writing was superb; and it had love and romance.  In essence, my definition of a perfect book!  I would recomment THE FORTUNE HUNTER to anyone who loves regencies.	2002-04-09
US	51901879	R3FXUQ5A868WS6	006000620X	952711335	Payback (Fingerprints No. 7)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	The End?	In this episode, Yana escapes from a dentist's office (don't ask me) and goes back to Atlanta in search of revenge.<br />Once again, I loved the parts where Anthony and Rae were together (sigh).  But is this the end of the series?  What about freaky Mr. Jefferson and that strange, over-concerned woman who is Rae's group therapy leader?  And how does the author expect me to believe that Yana, who is clearly a psycho, will suddenly turn all normal-y once she gets her \\"revenge?\\"<br />For a conclusion, this book was pretty weak, but I do have to add that I can't wait for Metz's next series--she's a really good author.	2002-02-11
US	51901879	R1T2AG229E8XS3	0804119732	191417169	Lord of Ice	Books	3	62	78	N	N	Definitely Not One of Her Better Books	LORD OF ICE is the follow-up to LORD OF FIRE, and features Lucien's acclaimed and admired brother, Damien, who is now the earl of Winterly. Due to a few twists of fate, Damien is saddled with a ward, Miranda Fitzhubert, whom he is naturally immediately attracted to, blah blah blah (I'm sure you can fill in the blanks).<br />I didn't like this book as much as LORD OF FIRE, mainly because it needed some more editing and the characters weren't very consistent or realistic (not that the characters in her other books are very realistic, but these were even less so).<br />The book starts off pretty well--interesting premise and all that--but I feel the author made several mistakes in making the story convincing as a romance. First of all, the whole ward/guardian thing puts the characters in a situation where they're bound to fall into more of a father/daughter type of relationship, as opposed to a relationship of equals. Add to this the characters' respective traits of neediness (Miranda) and dominance and protectiveness (Damien), and it's all but unavoidable. This would be fine if the book wasn't a romance, but it's hard to believe that the characters truly love each other (in a psychologically healthy way) when it is. Foley FURTHER exascerbates this problem by having Miranda--completely out of character--submit to Damien's authority, just as if he was, in fact, her father. Blech!<br />Secondly, Damien and Miranda should not have spent the majority of the book with the Knight family. In previous books, the family members have been largely to totally absent from the events of the story, which I think was a wise decision on Foley's part. In this book, however, it sometimes seems like Miranda spends more time with Knight Clan than with Damien. Furthermore, who in their right mind would want their family breathing down their neck while conducting a romance? If the Knights hadn't liked Miranda, then the situation could have been an interesting subplot, but Foley ignores this opportunity (not that I can't see why of course, since all Kights either have been or will be the protagonists of her books, and thus can't make any major faux pas), and Miranda's own need for a family almost makes it seem as if she loves Damien more for his family than for him.<br />Thirdly, the book was too long. It should have ended on page 379, but instead goes into a completely ludicrous tangent that has practically no bearing on the story and is patently ridiculous. If the author felt that she absolutely had to have it in the book, she should have inserted it more towards the middle.<br />Basically, this book could have used more editing and more thought. It has its good moments, but it also has extremely sappy scenes and a romance that I found basically unconvincing. But most of all, it has practically no spark of orginality whatsoever, and is certainly not one of her better books.opportunity (not that I can't see why of course, since all Kights either have been or will be the protagonists of her books, and thus can't make any major faux pas), and Miranda's own need for a family almost makes it seem as if she loves Damien more for his family than for him.<br />Thirdly, the book was too long. It should have ended on page 379, but instead goes into a completely ludicrous tangent that has practically no bearing on the story and is patently ridiculous. If the author felt that she absolutely had to have it in the book, she should have inserted it more towards the middle.<br />Basically, this book could have used more editing and more thought. It has its good moments, but it also has extremely sappy scenes and a romance that I found basically unconvincing. But most of all, it has practically no spark of orginality whatsoever, and is certainly not one of her better books.	2002-02-07
US	51901879	R3IIWMRRCNDPF0	0449006379	734231472	Lord of Fire	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Love It, Love It!	I must confess I totally loved this novel, in a guilty pleasure sort of way. It's a cross between a gothic romance and spy thriller, and is ten times more imaginative, orginal, and engrossing than any of Foley's previous books (except perhaps PRINCESS, which was very engrossing, but hardly as imaginative).<br />The plot is basically that Lucien, the \\"other twin\\" of the Knight Twin Duo, is a secret spy working under the guise of a heartless libertine diplomat. His isolated mansion in the moors north of Bath is his HQ, from which he operates an elaborate scheme to deceive the entire espionage community. Things are going well until the wrench in the works arrives in the form of Alice Montague, who travels to his estate to fetch back her sister-in-law from the depths of depravity so she can be with her sick son (Alice's nephew). For Lucien, it's love at first sight, and subsequent romance ensues.<br />My absolute favorite part of this book was the atmosphere--it felt as authentically gothic as JANE EYRE or WUTHERING HEIGHTS. I could feel the cold wind and desolation of the moors, see the cliffs and trees perfectly, and knew exactly how the ominous Elizabethan-style mansion looked. It was totally great!<br />There were some less-than-wonderful things in the book. The story sort of looses itself in the middle, and I frankly found Lucien's conversion from Big Bad Wolf to Nice-Guy Beta Male not just unconvincing, but also disappointing. The plot gets going again later in the book, however, and once Alice returns to London, things become much more interesting.<br />I really recommend this book, especially for people who love gothics. I was very surprised when I realized Foley was bringing in gothic elements, but she writes them wonderfully, and the price of the book is worth it just for that. All in all, a very intertaining, if not exactly intellectual, read.	2002-01-10
US	51901879	RL535H8X5XP6Z	038081806X	27779014	Someone Irresistible (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	2	11	12	N	N	A Bad Beginning and Weak Plot Detract	Having read all of Ashworth's books, I have to say I think this is her worst to date.  Not that that makes the book bad, exactly--Ashworth is a good writer, and it shines through; but the beginning is so rough and uninteresting, and the plot is so incredibly weak, that the romance overall seemed a little silly.<br />The premise is that Professor Nathan Price, at the opening of the Crystal Palace in 1851, is poised to wow the world with his ultra-super megalosaurus jaw bone.  A jaw bone.  Gosh golly.  But when he proudly lifts the velvet draperies to reveal his discovery, there's nothing there!  Meanwhile, all the greatest scientists in the world, who have gathered for the event, jump to the logical (?) conclusion, that Professor Price was lying about the whole thing to begin with and there never was a jaw bone.  Disgraced, Nathan leaves for the Continent.<br />Two and a half years later, he's come up with a not-so-brilliant plan to catch the thief who ruined his career by blackmailing Mimi Sinclaire--nee Marsh--into sculpting a reproduction of the jaw bone.  Mimi, whose husband conveniently died only two months after they were married, decides life is short and why not seduce the poor sod?<br />My problems with the plot is this:  why do the scientists assume he was making up his discovery of the megalosaurus jaw bone?  That would be stupid, not to mention professional suicide.  To me the logical assumption would be that it was stolen.  Also, I fail to see how constructing a sculpture of the jaw bone would prove to anyone that it actually existed, considering that no one has ever seen it or any other megalosaurus jaw bone.  The conclusion of the mystery as to who stole the jaw bone and why also didn't make much sense, although I did guess who the thief was less than fifty pages into the book--it's pretty obvious.<br />The scenes between Nathan and Mimi are very compelling and hot, but the sheer unbelievabitiy of the plot detracted from the whole novel and made me not like it very much.  It's worth checking out, but it's not that great.like it very much.  It's worth checking out, but it's not that great.	2001-12-08
US	51901879	R1DIOT6S94APLK	0441008291	947376342	The Tower at Stony Wood	Books	1	4	7	N	N	Weak Characterization	I'm sorry to say (really, I am) that I found this book to be a disappoinment, not to mention way overpriced.  It started off promising--the romance between Cyan and Cria, for example, was intriguing, and I immediately liked Cyan.  I was also intrigued by the imagery the author presented in the dragon, and the woman embroidering in the tower.  However, by page one hundred, I was asking myself why I cared about any of this.<br />McKillip's writing style is highly poetic and doesn't really focus on emotions--it's all basically imagery, imagery, imagery.  Do these characters even have emotions?  It was impossible to get to know them when the only clues to their behavoir are their actions.  Also, I personally think there were too many characters in this book, with not enough focus on them.  If you're only going  to have a character appear for five pages of the book, then forget about him/her, what's the point of even putting them in?<br />As I said, McKillip has great imagery style, but her action scenes are simply confusing--it's hard to tell who is doing what.  The first action scene, where Cyan is attacked in the forest by a &quot;monster&quot; is what truly lost me on the story.<br />THE TOWER AT STONY WOOD is an okay fantasy, but I don't think it deserves the kind of praise it is getting; it's certainly not the best fairy tale-like fantasy published recently, and I wouldn't pay full price for it even in the paperback version.  Get it from the library.	2001-12-04
US	51901879	R132VILYJPIB23	0505524554	637197649	Whispers of Goodbye (Candleglow)	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Really Depressing	While I admire White's effort to create a &quot;moody&quot; story with &quot;mysteries&quot; around every corner, I can't really say I like this novel.  There is not a single spark of hope to lighten the atmosphere from beginning to end, and thus I found the so-called happy ending unbelievable.<br />Set immediately after the Civil War, the story is told from the point of view of Cat, who is emotionally bankrupt after her only child has drowned and her husband subsequently committed suicide.  Her sister, whisked away to Massachusetts by her Yankee husband before the war began, writes a really odd letter to her asking her to come visit and help--with what, Cat has no idea.  When she arrives at the Luisianna plantation (intact, thanks to her brother-in-law's position as an officer in the Union army) where her sister is living, however, Cat discovers that she's been gone for four days, and no one knows where she is or even if she'll come back.  Her sister's rude and abrupt husband tries to make Cat leave, but as she has nothing to go back to (she's spent the last couple of months living in an abandoned cottage and eating whatever found she can find in abandoned gardens), she insists on staying until her sister returns.<br />In a lot of ways, this book reminded me of THE CRYING CHILD, by Barbara Michaels, except that book was much better.  Almost from the beginning, I knew what was up with Cat's neice, and as I mentioned before, the mood is incredibly depressing, not dark, the prose nearly suffocating.  Cat says that her heart died along with her son, and I can't help but agree.  The ending is way too pat to be satisfying, and Jon is at the emotionally disturbed end of the dark hero spectrum.  Dracula would look like Jim Carey compared to this guy.<br />I like happy books, or at least optimistic books.  WHISPERS OF GOODBYE was too caught up in it's own quagmire to be worth my time.  While White definitely succeeded in creating atmosphere, she needed to work a little more on her story and show some restraint occassionally.  I wouldn't recommend this book, unless you don't mind being really depressed.re on her story and show some restraint occassionally.  I wouldn't recommend this book, unless you don't mind being really depressed.	2001-11-04
US	51901879	R2FYYAR4PO118A	0064472825	43222945	Betrayed (Fingerprints #5)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Alas, the Drama	First of all, let me just say that I was LOVING this series.  Until this book came out.  Melinda Metz decends into completely contrived melodrama with Anthony, Rae, and Yana that would try the patience of a Mexican soap opera.<br />Yana gets a letter telling her dad how upset she was about some ballet thing when she was in grade school, so she just assumes that Rae sent it.  To get back at her--*why?*--Yana goes after Anthony, who conveniently left all his brain cells at Fillmore with his pot-smoking friends.  I say that because he doesn't seem to be thinking very much in this book.<br />Whereas in the other books Anthony and Rae were friends, in this book they hardly talk to one another.  Not to mention that just about everything else in this book seems contrived.  There's a lot of the plot to kill Rae going on, but really, who cares about that?  I hope Metz gets Anthony and Rae back together again soon so that the series can get back on track.	2001-10-19
US	51901879	R39W1PWH9FG8MH	1551668289	284094837	Looking For Laura	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Wow!  What a Great Author!	Three months after her husband's death, Sally Driver is going through his things when she finds a thick envelope filled with sickly-sweet, purple prose love letters.  Sally is indignant.  It's not enough that her husband cheated on her, but he had to go and give the woman Sally's Hula girl pocket knife!<br />Since Paul is--fortunately for him at this point--dead, Sally decides to take a pound of flesh out of his best friend instead, whom she's never been fond of anyway.  But Todd feels almost more wounded than Sally does:  Paul had a reason not to tell Sally about the affair, but he was Paul's BEST FRIEND.  Best friends are supposed to share stuff like that, aren't they?<br />Independently, both Todd and Sally start their own investigations into the identity of Paul's mistress.  Much to their annoyance, however, they're quickly compelled to join forces.  As they spend more and more time together, both Todd and Sally begin to realize that their conceptions of one another, and of Paul, were completely skewed.  Without Paul around to influence their ideas of each other, Sally and Todd become tentative friends and then fall in love.<br />Yes, the plot is a little on the weak side.  But what makes this book such a terrific read is Arnold's writing, which is light in tone, clever and funny in its presentation of the character's foibles, and filled with the author's life experience.  Also, the romance between Todd and Sally, while slow to develop, is completely believable.<br />Furthermore, I appreciated how the author didn't excuse Paul's behavior toward his wife, which went beyond simply having an affair, as Sally discovers during the course of the book.<br />This wasn't a sad book at all.  It was light, funny, and romantic.  Arnold is a great writer and I can't wait to read more of her stuff!  I highly recommend LOOKING FOR LAURA.	2001-08-13
US	51901879	R3AYWKOEY23B04	0505524163	572176162	Moonshadow (Candleglow)	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Absolutely Hilarious	Have you ever seen a movie that was so incredibly corny and stupid, you couldn't stop laughing?  That's how I felt reading this book!  It was like watching a train wreck--so horrifyingly bad that I can't look away, curious as to whether it will get worse.  And, in the case of MOONSHADOW, it does.<br />I'm really not exagerating here.  The characters are like something out of a Mel Brooks film.  By page twenty-five, I was stricken with the urge to bop the hero, Justin, on the head when he told the heroine, &quot;There's nothing to worry your pretty little head about,&quot; and then told her to &quot;run along.&quot;  The really sad thing is that this was all in earnest.  The &quot;love&quot; scenes made wince in order to keep from vomitting, and the way the book is structured is confusing.<br />All in all, this has to be one of the worst books published this year.  It has to be read to be believed how awful it is, but I won't recommend it simply because that would be cruel.	2001-06-19
US	51901879	R2Z9BL1E22F6Y5	1893896285	777330208	Last Hope	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another Good Read from Chloe Hall	I loved Hall's ARIEL'S DANCE, so I ordered this book at my local bookstore.  LAST HOPE is more serious than ARIEL'S DANCE, and has a broader scope, but Hall maintains a light touch with the characters and their occassionally dangerous situations through most of the book.  All in all, it was an enjoyable read with good sexual tension between the hero and heroine.<br />Last Hope is a planet colonized by humans in the distant future.  Connall, our hero, is a young man on the make, whose entire life centers around his political ambitions--it affects what he eats, where he lives, how he dresses; even who he sleeps with.  Arkanna is a naive intellectual who, by virtue of her birth, has the political connections Connall desires.  For reasons of their own, they strike a bargain and enter into a marriage of convenience.  The day after the wedding, they're off on a quest into the wilderness, looking for a place from which no one has returned.<br />What follows is an adventure that is, more often than not, amusing.  The sexual tension between Connall and his new bride is palpable, and the book is basically really fun.  However, I thought that the characterizations, especially of Connall (by the end of the novel, I found it difficult to like him, or at very least, sympathize with him), could have been better.  Also, the last hundred pages or so don't really fit in with the rest of the book--suddenly, it turns into an ethical story a la BRAVE NEW WORLD, or something along those lines, and thus the conclusion is really anticlimatic.<br />LAST HOPE was, overall, an entertaining, good read, and I would recommend that anyone who enjoys futuristic romances gives it a try.	2001-06-04
US	51901879	R3PUFSUH6KKIG7	0505524147	66666174	Dark Angel	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Dark and Moody	DARK ANGEL by Cassandra Collins feels like a film noir movie, with rainy L.A. streets and threats from all-powerful corporate bosses.  The heroine of the story is Scarlet Ray, who owns a diner right out of an Edward Hopper painting.  She lives in L.A., but it's the kind of L.A. that you find in L.A. CONFIDENTIAL or those old detective movies.  The book even sounds like an old movie from time to time:  &quot;Layers of brown hovered over Tinsel Town like a bad reputation,&quot; etc., etc.<br />Meanwhile, the hero is only slightly more modern; he's a 1950s, rebel-gone-wrong sort, an amalgamation of James Dean and Montgomery Clift sent by You-Know-Who to save Scarlet from an evil land developer who wants her diner.<br />This book could have been really good, but it fell flat for several reasons.  For one thing, despite the fact that it's billed as a romance, the hero and heroine spend very little time together--after the first hundred pages, they'd probably spent less than ten in eachother's company.  Furthermore, the story is hideously repetitive.  Everytime Scarlet sees Jake (a.k.a. James Dean), she's like, &quot;Oh my God!  I'm seeing things!  I'm going insane!  Can anyone else see him?&quot;  And so on and so on.  This gets a little tiresome after about the tenth time and he's  already explained--more than once--that he's there to protect her.  The threats on Scarlet's life are extremely repetitive, as well.  Same guy.  Same threat.  Same outcome.  Yada, yada, yada.  As for the characters themselves, Jake is hardly ever around, and Scarlet is wuss.  I know some may disagree with me on that statement, because she does stand up to the evil land developer, but she is essentially a weak, uninteresting character--she runs her dead mother's diner even though she hates it, her social life consists of watching incredibly old movies and mooning over Cary Grant, and she's a pushover to all her so-called friends.  She has no anger or passion, and she is not the type of person who goes after what she wants, or who even allows herself to want anything.  I, personally, do not want to read about a character like that.<br />As for the romance, as I mentioned before, the hero and heroine spend hardly any time at all together.  The author simply tells us that Jake desires Scarlet after five seconds in her company and somehow that's supposed to convince us that these two are in love?  That's just insulting.  The relationship between Scarlet and the detective was more interesting.  The relationship between Scarlet and her CAT was more interesting.<br />Basically, this novel has a lot of atmosphere, but not a lot of passion or heart.  It's interesting to read, but don't expect a romance when you start it.n who goes after what she wants, or who even allows herself to want anything.  I, personally, do not want to read about a character like that.<br />As for the romance, as I mentioned before, the hero and heroine spend hardly any time at all together.  The author simply tells us that Jake desires Scarlet after five seconds in her company and somehow that's supposed to convince us that these two are in love?  That's just insulting.  The relationship between Scarlet and the detective was more interesting.  The relationship between Scarlet and her CAT was more interesting.<br />Basically, this novel has a lot of atmosphere, but not a lot of passion or heart.  It's interesting to read, but don't expect a romance when you start it.	2001-04-16
US	51901879	R1V2U2B6T6820D	0505524236	626786836	Night Visitor (Timeswept)	Books	2	12	23	N	N	Original, but Often Confusing	NIGHT VISITOR, by Melanie Jackson, purports to be a ghost story/romance--the blurb on the back cover would certainly lead one to believe that--but in actuality it's more of a quasi-paranormal/time travel/fairy tale romance.  Although one can't help but admire Jackson's originality, VISITOR was often confusing, both in the way the story was structured and in the writing itself, and the characterizations suffered because of this.  NIGHT VISITOR will appeal to some people, especially those who love anything to do with Scotland, but it's not a particularly good novel, despite its inventiveness.<br />Okay, here's the premise:  In 1888, Tafaline, a young woman who's rather independent for the time period, is spending the summer helping her misogynistic father photograph archaeological sites in Scotland.  When the bones of &quot;The Piper&quot; are found in a castle called Duntrune, Taffy is called in to photograph them for prosterity.  According to legend, The Piper had his hands chopped off for playing his pipes in order to warn someone named McColla that Duntrune was under siege by the evil Campbells (actually, it technically wasn't under siege, because it was the Campbells' castle to begin with, but never mind).  Now, he's a ghost.  Legend also says that anyone who touches the bones of a ghost will have that ghost haunt them until they go mad--unless they're a MacLeod, in which case they'll simply be called away to the land of the fairies.  Of course, Taffy touches the Piper's bones, so guess what happens next.<br />As I mentioned before, the story is pretty original, but the way it was told was utterly confusing to me.  For one thing, why open the novel with the bishop, several months AFTER the Piper's bones have been discovered, especially since the bishop doesn't play hardly any role at all in the story?  Also, when the book first shifts over to Malcolm's (the piper's) viewpoint (page 36, just in case anyone was wondering), the date listed is 1964!  Now, I'm admittedly not well-versed on Scottish history, but I don't think all this war stuff was going on in the sixties in Scotland--which means that the date was either a mistake, which is really incredibly sloppy, or simply nonsensical.  Furthermore, once Malcolm does enter the picture, the point of view between him and Taffy changes so often that it's hard to get a sense of the characters.  They both do a lot of stuff, but I can't recall them ever feeling anything in the way of emotions.  Thus, while they both seem like very interesting characters at the very beginning of the novel, they quickly become flat and two-dimensional.<br />All in all, NIGHT VISITOR wasn't what I expected it to be.  It lies off the beaten path of paranormal/time travel/fairy romances, and thus might turn some people off--truly, I would only recommend this book to fans of the OUTLANDER series and to those who enjoy Scottish historicals.dly not well-versed on Scottish history, but I don't think all this war stuff was going on in the sixties in Scotland--which means that the date was either a mistake, which is really incredibly sloppy, or simply nonsensical.  Furthermore, once Malcolm does enter the picture, the point of view between him and Taffy changes so often that it's hard to get a sense of the characters.  They both do a lot of stuff, but I can't recall them ever feeling anything in the way of emotions.  Thus, while they both seem like very interesting characters at the very beginning of the novel, they quickly become flat and two-dimensional.<br />All in all, NIGHT VISITOR wasn't what I expected it to be.  It lies off the beaten path of paranormal/time travel/fairy romances, and thus might turn some people off--truly, I would only recommend this book to fans of the OUTLANDER series and to those who enjoy Scottish historicals.	2001-04-10
US	51901879	RJLEUDC9KM6A2	050552421X	958396308	Scarletti Curse (Candleglow)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Absolutely Wonderful!	Having read Feehan's &quot;Dark&quot; series, I have to say that I think this is her best book ever.  THE SCARLETTI CURSE is a true gothic romance, and people who love gothics--like me--will definitely want to read it.<br />The book has elements that were in Feehan's vampire novels and which will be familiar to that audience:  telepathy; a dictatorial hero (the curse of the Scarlettis is that they're supposedly destined to kill the women they love in jealous rages); the heroine with REALLY long hair; destiny.  There's also the quintessential gothic palace--poetically called the &quot;Palace della Morte&quot; by the local villagers--with hideous artwork, secret passageways, etc., etc., whose inhabitants all seem to be up to something nefarious.<br />I quickly became completely engrossed in the story.  No, it's not terribly original, but I loved every turn in the plot, anyway.  The story is told very much from the heroine's point of view, which is appropriate, and all the other characters were well filled-out and suited for their purpose in the book.  The reason I'm giving THE SCARLETTI CURSE four stars instead of five, however, is that the book, while enjoyable, did have some problems.  For example, the love scenes seemed emotionless and out of place in the novel, which was odd because Feehan usually excells at love scenes.  I also thought the explanation for everything happening at the &quot;Palace della Morte&quot; didn't quite make sense.<br />Despite these two things, however, I thoroughly enjoyed THE SCARLETTI CURSE, and I think Christine Feehan has found her niche!  I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys the work of Ann Radcliffe, Mary Stewart, the Brontes, or even Lisa Jane Smith.  Definitely, a good read.	2001-03-22
US	51901879	R2MITVD8W70Y1B	0505524120	253766035	The Wolf of Haskell Hall (Candleglow)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	NOT a Gothic Romance	I agree with some of the other reviewers for this book that it lacks &quot;that good gothic tension,&quot; as romancefanatic put it.  In fact, it lacks any tension whatsoever, gothic or sexual.  Before even page thirty, the hero and heroine are in his bedroom, ready for the literal roll in the hay!  As for any danger the hero might exude, we already know he's a big, bad wolfy, so no major surprise there.<br />Something that truly mystified me were the secondary characters.  Why are they there?  There seems to be no reason for their existence at all.  Also, how did the heroine meet a Haitan woman living in the middle of Colorado, especially in the nineteenth century?  As a resident of the state, I happen to know that Haitans are about as thick on ground here as daisies in Antartica, and this is the the age of jet travel--imagine what it was like in the Oregon Trail days!  Also, Shelly Holmes, the horse trainer, was absolutely unbelievable and she shouldn't have been included at all, if the author truly wanted to create a gothic:  all threats, danger, and the unravelling of any mysteries MUST be the heroine's demain alone, or be shared with a truly helpless victim, such as a child.  That is the entire point of having the story told solely in the heroine's point of view.<br />This novel, for the most part, IS told in the heroine's point of view; but this works to the detriment of the story, not for it.  Showing us what the hero is thinking and feeling would have added, in my opinion, to the tension, not to mention make him a more sympathetic and romantic character.<br />I haven't read any of Shannon's other novels, but I can say that her skill with gothics is very sadly lacking.  If you are a fan of Shannon's work, you will probably enjoy this novel, but readers looking for a gothic tale should pass it by.	2001-03-22
US	51901879	R1A8VZ9NP6XK8U	0061014303	528816370	Enchanted By Your Kisses	Books	2	27	30	N	N	Not Really....	I was very disappointed in this book.  I had read Britton's freshman book, MY FALLEN ANGEL, when it first came out and absolutely LOVED it, so I admit I had high expectations, but ENCHANTED BY YOUR KISSES didn't even come close to meeting what would be my low expectations.<br />First of all, the dialog was stilted.  It went around and around in repetitive circles, and occassionally meandered without any point whatsoever.  I suppose some of their conversation was meant to be witty reparte, but with such bad dialog, it was really hard to tell.  Also, I don't define being rude or hurtfull as &quot;witty,&quot; no matter how clever the insult--and these characters were insulting and rude to one another a lot.<br />Secondly, the characters.  Oh, boy.  Nathan, the hero, started out as your typical dark, mysterious, Byronic-type--which is great--but I quickly lost any liking or interest for him.  There is really no excuse for the way he deceives and treats the heroine, and even though he suffers guilt pangs about it, he is still cruel to her.  And the way he keeps thinking that all women are betrayers reminded me of a serial killer.  Basically, he's like Eeyore with really nasty teeth:  a little black cloud hangs over his head constantly, and he lashes out meanly at everyone else because HE has problems.<br />Ariel, meanwhile, is very blah.  While I sympathized with her anger at being ostracized from society, she didn't seem to have a heart to me.  She's simply a very angry, bitter, cold character.<br />As for the plot... did the author bother to think about it at all?  Her book is supposed to be humorous, but humor seems like an insult when there's a man being beaten to death (a scene that was very difficult to read, and which should have been cut out, by the way).  One of the things I really appreciated about Britton's earlier novel was that it was apparent a lot of thought had gone into it.  Not so with ENCHANTED BY YOUR KISSES.<br />I did chuckle once or twice during EBYK, and perhaps by the end of the book the two characters overcome their differences, yada yada yada (though I probably wouln't have believed it), but the truth is, by page two hundred, I simply didn't care.  While I would recommend MY FALLEN ANGEL without reservation, I would definitely NOT recommend EBYK.  Hopefully the author's next work (which is supposed to be a sequel to MFA) will turn out better.BYK, and perhaps by the end of the book the two characters overcome their differences, yada yada yada (though I probably wouln't have believed it), but the truth is, by page two hundred, I simply didn't care.  While I would recommend MY FALLEN ANGEL without reservation, I would definitely NOT recommend EBYK.  Hopefully the author's next work (which is supposed to be a sequel to MFA) will turn out better.	2001-03-16
US	51901879	R3GM9X7NI10YRZ	0380766485	269200187	Captives of the Night	Books	5	38	44	N	N	Completely Engrossing	I started this book one night right before my bedtime, figuring it at least would give me something to do, and wound up reading until four in morning!  I found CAPTIVES to be completely engrossing--really one of the best romances I've ever read.<br />The Comte d'Esmond is one of those dark, dangerous, and romantic types (think Heathcliffe or Rochester from the Bronte novels), looking for redemption for past sins.  The heroine is Leila Beaumont, another very fascinating character who is strong, tough, and intelligent--but also very passionate and kind--and Chase does an excellent job of showing us the different facets of her personality.<br />The plot is also excellent:  Leila and Esmond are trying to discover who killed her husband, and since he was a reeeally nasty character, the list of suspects includes just about everyone they know.  It's a mystery that is more well-written than those in most mystery novels I've read, and I kept guessing until the end who the killer was, just as Leila and Esmond were.<br />CAPTIVES OF THE NIGHT is not like LORD OF SCOUNDRELS, with a lot of &quot;cute&quot; scenes--it's not a book that tells its story scene by scene; rather, it unravels, revealing the secrets of the characters line by line, pulling you into their world.  By the end of this novel, I felt like I knew Leila and Esmond personally, and I was EXTREMELY happy that I had bought this book.  I would even consider buying it in hardcover, it was that good.  CAPTIVES OF THE NIGHT is, well... captivating.	2001-03-05
US	51901879	R1SNZKL0Z8WLY5	0821767747	693597317	Too Good To Be True	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Amusing?  Sometimes.  Romantic--barely!	TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE was an amusing book, on occasion.  I loved the Archie and Dickens characters, and the mystery element was actually pretty fair.  Unfortunately, I just wasn't feeling it with Grady and Annie as a couple.<br />For one thing, there's no conflict in their relationship.  They just sort of... get together.  Also, I found Grady's conversion from playboy to devoted lover inexplicable.  He doesn't want anything in this novel (what Annie wants is a mystery until the last chapter), which made his character sort of weak.  And finally, there weren't any really juicy love scenes in the book, which disappointed me greatly.  I don't necessarily need love scenes in romance, but when the romance is as weak as it was here, I think it's only fair.<br />I wouldn't recommend reading TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE if you want a hot, tension-filled romance novel (or even an interesting one); nevertheless, it is a pretty good book for a light diversion you can pick up and put down again a dozen times and still not lose the thread of the story.	2001-02-18
US	51901879	R155BEHU4AEDOS	0505522853	477861933	Ariel's Dance (Futuristic Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This Book is So Much Fun!	ARIEL'S DANCE starts off a little rocky -- during the whole first chapter, I was thinking, &quot;What is going on here?&quot; -- but by page thirty, it really starts to pick up.  In tone, it reminded me of a mix between Xena, Warrior Princess and Star Wars:  it doesn't take itself too seriously and there are a lot of really funny moments.  Also, I thought the characterizations of Drakkan and Ariel were excellent and sympathetic enough that I would want to get to know them in real life.  The sexual tension is so hot in places that it seems to burn up the pages, and the ending was well-done.<br />In short, I LOVE this book.  It has a delicious blend of outrageous humor, comedy of manners, impossible love, and a touch of the fantastical.  So much fun!  I will definitely be buying more of Chloe Hall's books in the future.	2001-02-06
US	51901879	R3U3YTEAA11CQT	0843943513	755232052	Flight of Fancy	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Yawn	Lord Rexford was wounded in the Napoleanic Wars and has been stuck behind a desk, sorting through messages from the crown's spies all over Europe, ever since.  Meanwhile, Wellington is about to go to Waterloo -- this does not make him happy.  Now he has to convince England's leading expert in carrier pigeons to give up her precious flock of birds for The Cause.  He's not exactly thrilled about that, either, but it beats sitting behind a desk.<br />I know what you're probably thinking, because I thought the exact same thing:  pigeons?  Yes, it's strange.  Very strange.<br />FLIGHT OF FANCY was an extremely boring book.  It was so dull that I barely made it to the fifty-page mark.  I think this is because the plot isn't strong enough to hold up an entire novel, and isn't very interesting.  Someone like Julia Quinn might have been able to pull it off (had she been wacky enough to try it), but Veisel's prose, at least in this novel, lacks any spark of emotion or intelligence.  In essence, I found FLIGHT OF FANCY to be a nothing but a big yawn.	2000-12-31
US	51901879	R1XDBDQVXPSFCA	0380809176	870536543	Meet Me at Midnight (With This Ring, Book 2)	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Disappointing	I have really enjoyed Enoch's other books, particularly REFORMING A RAKE, so I was certain that I would like MEET ME AT MIDNIGHT, too.  However, this book was simply a disappointment -- it was so dull that I didn't even finish it.<br />MEET ME AT MIDNIGHT starts off really well, with a very interesting premise, but by the time the middle of the book rolls around, it starts becoming redundant.  Both Sin and Vixen start off as intriguing characters, but get more and more boring as the story progresses.  As for the story line, Sin is looking for his brother's murderer, except he has no clues, no evidence, no real suspects, and the trail is already two years cold.  In other words, nothing interesting is happening as far as the plot is concerned, either.<br />And where is Enoch's sense of humor in this book?  All of her previous novels have been infused with good-natured humor and laugh-out-loud moments of hilarity, but MEET ME AT MIDNIGHT is utterly devoid of both.  All in all, it was boring and unentertaining.  Read or re-read Enoch's earlier novels and hope she recovers to her usual self in her next book, is my recommendation.	2000-10-11
US	51901879	R11HANUUT8A1I8	0380811987	373698911	Rules of Engagement (Governess Brides, Book 2)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	An Engaging Novel with Wonderful Characters	RULES OF ENGAGEMENT, Dodd's second book in her &quot;governess&quot; series, is probably better than anything she has written so far -- the characters, most particularly the hero, are well-drawn and likable, and the novel practically vibrates with humor and intelligence.<br />The Distinguished Academy of Governesses isn't doing so well, financially speaking, when Devon, the Earl of Kerrich, strolls in one day and arrongantly demands a governess, along with an orphan for her to take of, so that Queen Victoria will declare him respectable -- after which, he'll promptly drop the orphan, of course.  For this duplicitous scheme, he's willing to pay the D.A.G. an obscene amount of money, so the question of their compliance is, naturally, a non-issue (to him).  As far as the governess goes, he only has one requirement:  that she be too old and matronly to come on to him (the Earl's had several bad experiences with women showing up naked in his bedroom before, and he's beginning to find it tiring).<br />Although her business partner expresses grave doubts as to the wisdom of this scheme, Pamella Lockhart is much too fond of money to let this opportunity pass her by, so, disguising herself as an old spinster, she moves into the Earl's house and proceeds with her job.<br />RULES OF ENGAGEMENT was entertaining and funny and an all-around good book.  The counterfitting plot was a little weak -- not to mention completely unnecessary -- but, oh well.  I could certainly understand why Pamella would fall in love with Devon, and her doubts about the relationship were completely logical.  Devon, meanwhile, was humorous simply because he was so conceited, arrogant, and self-centered.<br />The only thing I didn't like about R. of ENGAGEMENT was the last fifty pages or so, which were way too melodramatic and self-pitying, but all in all, I liked this book and the characters in it.  The love scene in the library alone is worth the cost of this book!  If you haven't read Christina Dodd before, I'd recommend starting with RULES OF ENGAGEMENT.  If you're a Dodd fan, I think you're in for a treat.d before, I'd recommend starting with RULES OF ENGAGEMENT.  If you're a Dodd fan, I think you're in for a treat.	2000-10-03
US	51901879	RMTX3S7QRH9X7	051512902X	14576775	After Dark (Ghost Hunters, Book 1)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Don't Expect Something Along the Lines of Orchid &amp; co.	Castle's futuristic romances are what turned me into a J.A.K. fan, so  naturally, I was excited to see this book on the shelves.  However, AFTER  DARK does not follow in the tradition of previous Castle books -- it has a  more &quot;mature&quot; (re: less fun) story line, and whereas Orchid,  Zinnia, etc., were romances with a mystery/suspense subplot, After Dark is  really a murder mystery with a romantic subplot.  Gone also is the theme of  finding one's &quot;soulmate&quot; for the main characters.<br />I liked the  heroine, however, and the book was interesting enough to keep me reading  until the end (which unfortunately was a major disappointment).  The  biggest let-down of all in After Dark is that, by the end of the book, I  wound up thinking that the relationship between the two main characters  would be nothing more than another transient affair for both of  them.<br />Krentz apparently went for a more &quot;realistic&quot; feel in a  fantasy romance, and wound up writing something wholly unconvincing on the  most basic of levels.  After Dark was entertaining to a certain extent, but  also depressing, which is why I can only give it three stars.	2000-09-18
US	51901879	R3J5K9F13FPHN9	0440234565	319506287	Potent Pleasures (The Pleasures Trilogy)	Books	1	19	36	N	N	Trashy	A review on the back of this book says, &quot;Utterly frivolous.&quot;  This may lead a potential buyer to think this a fun book to read -- people  like myself, for example.  Unfortunately, this quote is completely  misleading.  After reading about five chapters of POTENT PLEASURES, I felt  as if I had jumped into a dumpster and rubbed rotting vegetables all over  myself.  Yuck.<br />There are twists and turns in the book, but they're  completely nonsensical, and when a character isn't doing something that I  reeeeeally do not need to know about, the book is just boring.  The  characters, meanwhile, are as flat as the paper they're printed on, not to  mention as flimsily constructed, and were completely unlikable.<br />In other  words, I thought this was a very trashy (and not in a good, entertaining  way, either) novel that I fervently wish I had never spent money on.  Beware, because you may wish the same, should you buy it.	2000-09-16
US	51901879	R3KIZE9LDKGSLN	0451116232	991723795	The Marchington Scandal	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Weak Sexual Tension -- Could Have Been a Lot Better	Seven years ago, Katherine Daltry followed her father and her fiance to India, eschewing the London society that had adored her.  Now, both men are  dead, and Katherine has returned, out of necessity, to stay with an old  friend of her mother's.<br />Kat is basically hiding herself away, when her  &quot;country cousin&quot; and said cousin's new husband show up and demand  to be touted around society.  Unfortunately for everyone, Tom Marchington  is an idiot who is embarrasing the entire family by salivating all over the  salacious Countess Standen.  In desperation, Kat asks one of her former  suitors, Lord Oliver Stonenden, to distract the Countess until the  Marchingtons are called back to the country.  What Kat doesn't know,  though, is that Stonenden still desires her hand in marriage.<br />THE  MARCHINGTON SCANDAL's plot is too twisted and meandering for its length,  not to mention being pretty silly.  However, my main complaint for the  novel is that the attraction between the main characters is lukewarm to  nonexistent.  At the end of book, I had serious doubts that they loved each  other at all, or that their marriage would be a happy one, and in a romance  novel, that's a major deduction point.  The writing was fine, and some  parts of the novel were interesting, but THE MARCHINGTON SCANDAL fails in  its main purpose:  as a romance.  Hence, I can only give it three stars,  for being mildly entertaining.	2000-08-30
US	51901879	R2A7XVU1D0HRP9	0821762893	243757186	Lord Radcliffe's Season (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Surprisingly Entertaining Novel	Lisabeth Montague is just out of mourning for her husband and re-entering the ton, when she is called on by one of her late husband's relatives to  help a Lord Tristan Radcliffe learn the ways of polite society, and to find  him a bride.  Lisabeth is expecting a young boy barely out of short pants,  but what arrives on her doorstep is a man who has been crippled in the  Napoleonic Wars.  As the Season gets underway, Lisabeth dutifully sticks to  her agreement to find him a deb to wed, but what she really wants is to wed  him herself.<br />LORD RADCLIFFE'S SEASON is a delightful book, mainly because  Ferguson writes it so well.  She manages to create sexual tension between  the characters, even though there's no sex, and carries it through to the  end, concluding with a fairly tense climax and a satisfying ending.  Radcliffe, though insufferably rude in the beginning of the novel, becomes  genuinely likable as the story progresses, and one can't help but WANT  these two to be together, because they're so obviously right for each  other.<br />Another wonderful read from Ferguson that left me smiling at the  finish, and one I would definitely recommend, even to those who aren't fans  of the genre.	2000-08-29
US	51901879	RYQU238MT6SZ	0821766724	886060218	The Seventh Sister (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Boring	THE SEVENTH SISTER is the sequel to THE SISTER SEASON, and follows the  courtship of the youngest of the Durham ladies, Lady Margaret.  Maggie  hates the Season and wants to spend all her time going to London's museums,  libraries, lectures, and looking for bugs (Maggie has a passion for  entomology); but unfortunately, her big brother, the Earl, only wants to  see her successfully married off to a young man of large fortune.  However,  since he must go away to see to one of his estates in the country (and  since he doesn't trust Maggie as far as the front step), he prevails upon  one of his war comrades, Cpt. Bixworth Hawksby, to escourt Maggie to her  little &quot;amusements&quot; and make sure she doesn't get into any  trouble while he is gone.  Hawksby understandably thinks this is going to  be tedious time spent away from his new l'amour, Miss Divine, but as he  gets to know Maggie better (this is the premise, in any case), he finds  that Miss Divine's company, when she gives it to him, is what is becoming  tiresome, while Maggie has found a place in his heart.<br />THE SEVENTH SISTER  may sound interesting, and it does have its moments, but overall it was  just boring -- so much so that I really had trouble finishing the book.  Mainly, it was Tanner's way of writing, which was like a Fidel Castro  lecture delivered in monotone,  that made it so dreadfully dull.  Even  though things do happen, they don't change anything in the plot or in the  story, so they're essentially pointless.  Also, one can't seem to be  inspired to care about any of the characters, who could just as well be  cardboard cut-outs, and still have all the personality and warmth they  exhibit in this book.<br />Another problem results from the fact that this  is a sequel, and that both the reader and the writer have trouble filling  in the gaps in the plot, for those who hadn't read the earlier book.  If  you read THE SISTER SEASON and enjoyed it, you'll most likely enjoy this  book; if you haven't read THE SISTER SEASON, read it and see if you like it  before moving on to SEVENTH SISTER.u haven't read THE SISTER SEASON, read it and see if you like it  before moving on to SEVENTH SISTER.	2000-08-07
US	51901879	R1KX2ROPQ2396D	0380813068	388133853	Perfect Match	Books	3	5	8	N	N	A Book Unlikely to Light One's Imagination	Lauren Stevens is stranded in New Orleans with only ten dollars and a  parrot, when she is rescued, in a fashion, by Alistair Gotho.  Unbeknownst  to Lauren, however, Alistair's brother, Oliver, wouldn't mind  &quot;rescuing&quot; her himself.  Add to the mix Oliver's attractive bank  consultant, Barbara, whom Alistair has set his sights on, and what you get  is . . . a mess.<br />Barbara wants Alistair, Alistair wants Barbara, Oliver  wants Lauren (he spotted her first, after all), and all Lauren wants is a  roof over her head, and a job so that she can afford it.  Oh, and she wants  Alistair, but she's not about to admit that!<br />One may get the impression  that this book is interesting, but that would be incorrect.  The back of  the book tells us that it's Alistair and Lauren who wind up together, and  just in case you might have been a little tense over the out come any way,  both men change their minds so quickly and easily, it leaves one snorting  in disgust.  Even the spice of a New Orleans setting isn't enough to liven  this book up.<br />The main problem is that the characters don't DO anything,  and nothing seems to happen.  Alistair's and Lauren's love story may have  been interesting condensed to a shorter length, but in PERFECT MATCH, it  drags out.  The book is only supposed to go over a two-day time span, but  it feels like forever.  And Oliver and Barbara aren't present enough to  make one care about them.<br />I didn't like PERFECT MATCH, but I didn't  dislike it, either.  It couldn't seem to affect any feelings in me one way  or the other.  All in all, I thought this book was an uninspired, and  uninspiring, effort.	2000-08-05
US	51901879	R17FPTGIU3YYQP	0505523906	328894092	The Enchanted Prince	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Classic &quot;Misunderstanding&quot; Story	Disguised as a slovenly pauper, Connor MacEowan goes off to Derbyshire to  woo the &quot;lovely&quot; Gemma on a dare from his rich and careless  friends and discovers that, in Gemma's case in particular, loveliness is  only skin deep.  Gemma is only seventeen, and Difficult, to say the least.  However, a bet is a bet, and Gemma's uncle is only too happy to get rid of  his orphaned ward; so Gemma is forced into marrying him, and off they trot  to Scotland to live as crofters in some miserable little backwater of the  Highlands.<br />The rest of the book is devoted to Gemma and Connor battling  it out a la Celebrity Deathmatch as Gemma considers, in turns, murdering  Connor and killing herself.  All of this carousing would end, of course, if  one of them simply admitted to the other that they loved them, but then the  book would be two hundred pages shorter.<br />THE ENCHANTED PRINCE isn't  completely bad, but it goes on for way too long, covering the same ground  over and over again, and thus grows tiresome.  There are some  laugh-out-loud moments scattered throughout the book, though, and the only  thing that carries the book through to the end are Gemma's antics, which  are very entertaining, but which were too few and far between for my  liking.  Fans of Scotland will enjoy this book for the wonderful picture  painted of it, and for at look a life from the crofters' point of view,  which was very refreshing.  Fans of Marsh also will undoubtedly enjoy the  book.  However, it's length and tediousness are what cause me to give it  three stars.	2000-08-03
US	51901879	R1L7UNI87HQTH4	0373225733	107313317	The Stranger Next Door (Randolph Family Ties, Book 2) (Harlequin Intrigue Series #573)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Good Story, but the Suspense Could Have Been Tighter	Danielle is touring New Orleans when she has a very dumb idea.  She decides to shortcut down a deserted alley in order to get to her hotel faster.  Gee, guess what happens?  Yup, she's attacked by a knife-wielding  maniac and winds up in the hospital.  Unfortunately for her, she also winds  up with amnesia.<br />The only clue Danielle has to her identity is a letter  from someone claiming to be her uncle who lives in a small south-eastern  Texas town.  Danielle borrows money from her hospital roomie and takes a  Greyhound there, arriving in the middle of the night in a rainstorm.  The  town is completely deserted and the phones are out, but luck is with her at  last when she meets up with Langly Randolf, who is temporarily filling the  position of sheriff while his brother (the real sheriff) is on his  honeymoon.  Langly takes her under his wing, so to speak (he'd like to take  her under several under things, but he's too polite -- and values his life  too much -- to say so), but he soon discovers he's got his work cut out for  him, both as the town sheriff and as Danielle's protector.<br />The bad news  is that Danielle's uncle is dead.  And that the person who attacked her in  New Orleans has apparently followed her into Texas.  And that people are  trying to steal her cattle, and that the ranch house is a crumbling wreck.  Also, her fiance shows up and she doesn't like him, not to mention her  cousin-in-law, who's claiming the ranch for himself.  In point of fact,  there is absolutely no good news in Danielle's life -- except for the fact  that she Langly are falling in love.  And that could really be interpreted  both ways.<br />THE STRANGER NEXT DOOR is the third book in a four-part series  about the &quot;Randolf Family,&quot; and was a surprisingly good novel  with a satisfying ending.  It certainly succeeded in making me interested  in the other installments in this series.  Romantically, it didn't miss in  the least -- the sparks between Langly and Danielle are strangely  believable, and the complications of Danielle's amnesia add tension to the  relationship that is understandable and makes for great drama.  The  suspense, however, could have been tighter and more dramatic, and many  times feels like a non-entity, especially by the end of the book.  Also,  the dialog sounds stilted from time to time, especially when the characters  are explaining the suspense to one another.  If you're looking for gripping  suspense, skip this book.  If you like books that highlight complex  relationships, THE STRANGER NEXT DOOR is worth the four or five dollars to  get it.e are strangely  believable, and the complications of Danielle's amnesia add tension to the  relationship that is understandable and makes for great drama.  The  suspense, however, could have been tighter and more dramatic, and many  times feels like a non-entity, especially by the end of the book.  Also,  the dialog sounds stilted from time to time, especially when the characters  are explaining the suspense to one another.  If you're looking for gripping  suspense, skip this book.  If you like books that highlight complex  relationships, THE STRANGER NEXT DOOR is worth the four or five dollars to  get it.	2000-07-25
US	51901879	R3MM1754UM4LMP	037322575X	927842574	Blackmailed Bride (Harlequin Intrigue 575)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Could Have Been Better, but Was Nevertheless Enjoyable	Cathlynn O'Connell, an antique dealer from Nashua, New Hampshire, drives herself to a converted monastery one stormy winter's night in the hopes of getting a piece of glass work that has obsessed her for years.  When she  arrives, however, she hears rumors about the monastery's owner and  resident, Jonas Shades.  Weeks ago, his wife mysteriously disappeared, and  the word around town has it that he killed her.  When Cathlynn spies him at  the auction, she can well believe it.  And when he out-bids her for the  antique glass that she wants so desperately, she isn't adverse to a little  murder, herself.<br />By an amazing stroke of coincidence, however, Cathlynn  looks very much like Jonas' missing wife.  Wifey managed to have the gall  to get herself killed before Jones could lay his hands on her trust fund,  so he bribes Cathlynn with her antique, convincing her to stay and play the  part of Mrs. Shades until the trust fund reverts back to the inconveniently  dead wife.  Of course, Jonas doesn't tell her that he's MADLY attracted to  her, but she figures it out eventually.<br />The book wasn't terribly  suspenseful, but it had its moments.  In many ways, BLACKMAILED BRIDE was  very gothic -- the dark, forbidding mansion; the intimidating, powerful,  and brooding master of the house; even a grizzled butler and a secret  laboratory.  It could have been better written, but it was still a nice  book to read with a satisfying ending.  If you like these kind of faux  gothic romance books, or if you're just simply addicted to romance in  general, I'd definitely recommend it.	2000-07-22
US	51901879	RAZGDPNALI003	0505523833	323263452	The Wild Swans (Faerie Tale Romance)	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Nice, but the Story Drags	THE WILD SWANS is an adaptation of the classic fairy tale by the same name, where a princess must knit twelve (or seven, depending on which version one is reading) shirts out of nettles for her twelve brothers,  turned into swans.  The catch is that she can't speak a word until she's  finished, or her little bros will be swans forever.<br />THE WILD SWANS is not  laugh-out-loud funny, but it is light-hearted and a nice read if one needs  a diversion.  However, the story drags in a lot of places, the author so  caught up in the details of a scene or situation that the plot grinds to  screeching halt, and it takes a while for it to start back up again.  The  book could have stood to loose a hundred pages or so.  Also, there are very  few surprises in the book, mainly because one already knows the course of  events from the fairy tale, and Holmes never veers off that path.  The  climax was much too short, especially in comparison with some other scenes  in the story, and not particularly intense or suspenseful.<br />That being  said, Holmes is a good writer, and her strong point in THE WILD SWANS is  her characterizations.  King Richard is the most well-drawn character, and  even the minor characters, such as Richard's best friend, Harry, and his  valet, Thurgood, are strong on the page.<br />All in all, THE WILD SWANS was a  nice read and one that I would recommend to fans of Cinderella, Snow White,  etc.; but it wasn't a &quot;keeper,&quot; and I wouldn't read it more than  once.	2000-06-22
US	51901879	R2DWFS79XSU2YS	0515128007	824641136	The Morning After	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Even More Unbelievable Than Usual	I am a big fan of Suzanna Forster's books (guilty pleasure), but this book was so completely unbelievable, not to mention poorly written, that I wonder if I should continue to be one.<br />The premise is that the heroine,  Temple (who is one of those women that have &quot;Walk on me I'm a  rug&quot; tattoed on their foreheads), gets a dose of moderate self-respect  and moves from the East Coast to the West to work in a California ad  agency, abandoning her annoying relatives.  A few weeks later, she wakes up  one morning to go work, and finds she's in a hotel room -- AND SHE DOESN'T  KNOW HOW SHE GOT THERE.  Gasp!  Horrors!  Foregoing the obvious conclusions  (a.k.a. the date rape drug), she flies out of there like her feet are on  fire, only to discover that her landlady and her boss seem to be under the  erroneous impression that she's married.<br />Oh, well.  Might as well get on  with life, right?  That's what Temple tries to do, but then she finds out  she's pregnant.<br />Since her move to California, Temple has made one friend,  Annette, who once dated a PI.  Coincidentally, Temple has heard of the same  PI, on an anonymous message on her answering machine.  Annette convinces  Temple to hire said PI to find the mysterious hubby, and the plot grinds to  a nonsensical halt.<br />Besides the unbelievable plot, the romance between  Secret Agent Man and Temple is about as hot as woolly mammoths in the  Artic.  Temple is just a plain, cookie-cutter character, and when she does  show any emotion, it's wishy-washy (I don't know if I should be mad at him  or not.  Sure, he did sort of rape me and use me and manipulate me, but I  LOVE him).  Gag, gag, gag.  And the hero never shows any human emotion  whatsoever.  I wound up convinced he was a robot.<br />Unlike many of  Forster's earlier books, even the worse ones, this novel fails to grabs  one's interest and sustain it.  It's far too unbelievable to be suspenseful  or romantic, and winds up as meaningless and uninteresting as the paper  it's printed on.  The words, characters, and plot in this novel are  inanimate objects, about as engaging as watching rocks erode.  This is a  book I cannot recommend.esting as the paper  it's printed on.  The words, characters, and plot in this novel are  inanimate objects, about as engaging as watching rocks erode.  This is a  book I cannot recommend.	2000-06-20
US	51901879	R3MEJJLZMIGJQN	0553578677	883049328	Legendary Lover	Books	2	0	0	N	N	This is a Book to Read in a Warm Bath	Jack is pushed into a set-up to meet Venus Duras by his meddling godmother, and the moment they touch, voilins play, fire works go off, birds sing, the ball room breaks out into a dance number a la Rogers and Hammerstein, and pretty soon he and Venus are boinking like rabbits. And that's the rest of the book. The hero and heroine have an endurance level that even the Olympian gods wouldn't be able to match, and if you cut out all the \\"love\\" scenes and only kept the portions of this book devoted to plot, it'd be less than fifty pages long.<br />I'll stop being a grouch for five seconds to admit that Johnson has potential as a writer. Jack was a likable character, when he wasn't being written into the 19th century's version of Mark David Chapman, and the reader wants him and Venus to admit they love each other and get married, if only to put an end to the sex scenes that occasionally border on the S&M side. However, I was never convinced their attraction for one another was more than temporal, and the scenes that may have convinced me otherwize, -- where they talk as friends and two people with shared interests -- the author only told us about, sacrificing the heart of the story in favor of . . . well, the warm bath, I suppose. The subplot, where scheming members of the ton try to separate the hero and heroine, was also unconvincing, and added nothing to the story except pages.<br />This is not a love story, or even a romance, but pornography with a pretty cover, plain and simple. To be honest, I didn't know whether to give this book four stars for the sex scenes or one star because of them, but it appears my literary sensibilities have won out. If you're looking for sex, buy this book. If you want a story worth more than the paper it's printed on, don't waste your money on LEGENDARY LOVER.	2000-06-14
US	51901879	R2C164DUJUEK0Z	0515125059	179201313	Kissed by Starlight (Magical Love)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	One of My Favorites, Full of Tension and Suspense	In the late 18th century, Felicia Starret's uncertain future takes a turn for the worse when her father, the Viscount Stavely, dies.  Because she is his illegitimate daughter, Felicia has been figuratively thrown to the  wolves with no one left to protect her.  Soon, however, she has the  unbelievably good fortune to release, albeit unknowingly, a  &quot;fairie&quot; from his stone prison.<br />This &quot;fairie&quot; (he  really hates being called that) is Blaic, a prince of his people, who was  cursed after helping his king's daughter escape.  Blaic is thrilled when he  is released from the stone, and rushes back to the Living Lands, only to  find out that the curse is not yet lifted.  He still needs Felicia.<br />As  they spend more time together, Felicia and Blaic fall in love, but because  Felicia is human, they cannot touch without obligation -- a  &quot;fairie&quot; is bound to fulfil the wish of any human they come into  physical contact with.  This makes for great sexual tension between the two  characters, and gives the book that extra zing that warrants five  stars.<br />The novel also works in its basic plot, that of Felicia struggling  to live her life on her terms, outside, and in spite of, what everyone  thinks of her and tells her about herself.<br />This book has it all --  spells, girls fallen under enchantments, a wicked stepmother, a charming  prince, and a heroine that goes from the cinders to the palace.  You will  get caught up Felicia's odyssey and the romance between her and Blaic, wish  the stepmother to hot, firey place, and be satisfied at the ending.  A  wonderful escapist read that I highly recommend.	2000-06-11
US	51901879	R26JHNM3YGYJ2N	0373222750	875579217	Timewalker	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Two Cultures Meet, but it's Nothing to Rhapsodize About	Julia is an FBI Special Agent working to stop a gang of money launders on a Navajo reservation.  Through sheer coincidence, something happens to bring back to life Benjamin Two Eagle, a Navajo Singer (shaman) who has  been trapped in one of his amulets for over a century.  Obsessed with  finding his amulets, Benjamin teams up with Julia to take on not only the  criminals, but the tribal police as well, and eventually they fall in  love.<br />This book could have been really good, particularly if one is  interested in the Southwest, Navajo culture, and/or magic.  It has all the  elements of a great story; however, Thurlow's delivery is unconvincing.  The character's dialog is marred when they express things that, logically,  they should know and take for granted.  The reader might not know these  things, of course, and that's why they're included.  But they rob the story  of realism and, consequently, suspense.  The lack of realism (a paradoxical  rule for any creative work trying to present a convincing supernatural  image or event, but true nonetheless) also makes the magic in this novel  unbelievable and ridiculous.<br />As for the romantic tension between  Benjamin and Julia, it has it's moments but is essentially non-existent  through most of the book.  The conclusion, as well, is a severe let-down,  and the reader remains unconvinced that the couple can overcome their  differences and build a pernament future together.<br />TIMEWALKER is not a  completely awful book, but it's not worth the price of ordering it  out-of-print.  Buy it from a used book store for fifty cents and be  prepared to throw it away when you're finished.	2000-06-09
US	51901879	R2QHF6JUHE6WRH	0440223717	729437780	The Lover's Charm	Books	1	9	10	N	N	An Ugly Duck Story that Fails to Enthrall or Convince	Jack Cantrell is living the good life in the Carribean with his Creole mistress, Camille, when he receives word that his brother has died and he's now the Earl of Something-or-other.  Her head dancing with images of jewels  and simpering peons, Camille tells Jack he really MUST go back home and  face his familial responsibilities.  Then come back to her with the jewels,  of course.  And, not one to take any chances, Camille makes certain Jack  will not forget her when surrounded by those tempting English misses (yeah,  right) by giving him a locket filled gris-gris (a.k.a. the lover's  charm).<br />Jack dutifully sails back to cold, depressing England and gets  the infinite pleasure of living with his totalitarian aunt and spinster  cousins, one of whom is more a few bricks short of a full load.  The story  degenerates from there, along with Jack's life.<br />The writing here is fine,  but the story drags on needlessly, especially the last hundred pages when  Jack does something so despicable, I personally could never have forgiven  him for it, and the fact that heroine does is absolutely infuriating.  Although he does have his moments, Jack (who is the character readers will  spend most of their time with) was not likable, and the romance between him  and the bishop's daughter is unconvincing.  I find it especially hard to  believe Jack could love anyone, considering how much he hates  himself.<br />Simply put, this book was an exercise in patience to read and  way too long, and the romance and plot were not as interesting as they  should, or could, have been.  While I have enjoyed this author's other  novels, THE LOVER'S CHARM misses the mark.	2000-06-07
US	51901879	R1ZNI5EPL2JDWQ	1573430226	529678938	Oracle	Books	2	6	8	N	N	More of a Romance than a Sci-Fi Novel	The year is 2012.  The world is not a happy place.  Jane Deerfield controlls computer network of a Boston university, looking after it with the intense devotion only computer geeks can truly comprehend.  Then,  conveniently, she gets thrown 200 years into the future just as the nuclear  bombs that will destroy her world hit the Boston area.<br />Jane soon  discovers she is someone called the Keeper of Knowledge, the one person  proficied to hold the knowledge of the past in the future.  Why or how this  came about is never explained.  But Jane doesn't really care.  Like a  typical female, all she wants is to cozy up with her hero, Daken, in a  peaceful little cul-de-sac and have lots of babies (okay, that's an  exaggeration; but not much of one, I promise you).<br />This book is more of a  romance than a futuristic or sci-fi novel, which is disappointing if one is  expecting to read the latter.  The story is slow-going during the first  hundred pages, and the first fifty are particularly annoying, filled with  extremely sappy scenes.<br />Not that ORACLE doesn't have its good points,  of course -- the climax with the Tarveen, Dake's enemy, is exciting and  interesting and basically everything a climatic scene should be.  Now if  only the author had carried that kind of intensity throughout the novel.  Steve is the most interesting character, until he opens his mouth and  speaks (which, come to think of it, is an accurate representation of  reality), and the author doesn't over- or under-do his role in the  story.<br />In the end, this book has all the elements of a good sci-fi  futuristic, but they aren't cohesive enough and thus the book fails to hold  one's interest throughout the story.  The romance, meanwhile, is too sappy  and text-book to add anything to the story, and there should have been less  of it.  Essentially, a book I can't recommend.	2000-06-07
US	51901879	R1BEH5QZ395T37	0821762982	871813508	Beneath A Blood Red Moon (Zebra romantic suspense)	Books	1	11	17	N	N	Interesting Concept Butchered by Bad Writing	Maggie Montgomery is a ready-to-wear designer in an up-scale section of the Vieux Carre when, one day, she is visited by two police officers who question her about a trail of blood drops leading from a brutally  decapitated body, right up to her front door.  The senior detective, Sean  Canady, is the latest grandson of one of Maggie's lovers.  Maggie is a  vampire, you see.  So, to sum up the rest of the plot in one sentence:  She  and Sean start sleeping together, while trying to look for the decapitating  killer, even though Maggie really should know who it is from the very  beginning.<br />I thought the basic plot for this book was interesting, but  the author has neither the skill nor the talent to write it.  She  introduces us during the first chapter to the man who made Maggie a vamp,  Alec DeVereaux.  This little scene, however, has very little -- if any --  point.  The story would have been much better served if the prelude was  eliminated, or at least moved to the middle as a flashback.  The Jack the  Ripper element, as well, should have been excluded.  It's cheesy, and as  soon as it materializes, it sucks all the suspense from the murder mystery.  The author also had a tendency to unnecessarily list or repeat certain  facts.  For example, most people with an eighth-grade education in America  know about DRACULA, the book by Bram Stoker, yet this author feels the need  to list when it was written, by whom, what about -- all things that are  redundant to the average reader, and that do not serve a purpose towards  furthering the plot.<br />Yet these are all trifling details.  The author's  real weakness is in her dialog.  She seems to have no idea how people  express themselves in reality and appears to be stuck in a really bad  melodrama, with an over-zealous tendency towards exclamation points  (&quot;You cannot be evil, you cannot!  I will not believe it, I will  not!&quot;  &quot;She has died; she will become one of the creatures!&quot;  Have you seen my sock!  I think I have an ingrown toenail!).  As far as  the action and descriptions are concerned, the author has no flow or sense  of the words that she is putting on the paper.  She is simply unable to  communicate ideas, let alone emotions, effectively.<br />Hence, this book was  very, very awful.  There are some books over which one can only wonder, how  do these people get published? and this is one of those books.  I would not  recommend BENEATH A BLOOD RED MOON to anyone.  If you are looking for a  truly romantic vampire story, with some historical flashbacks, I strongly  suggest THE VAMPIRE DIARIES as an alternative.my sock!  I think I have an ingrown toenail!).  As far as  the action and descriptions are concerned, the author has no flow or sense  of the words that she is putting on the paper.  She is simply unable to  communicate ideas, let alone emotions, effectively. <br />Hence, this book was  very, very awful.  There are some books over which one can only wonder, how  do these people get published? and this is one of those books.  I would not  recommend BENEATH A BLOOD RED MOON to anyone.  If you are looking for a  truly romantic vampire story, with some historical flashbacks, I strongly  suggest THE VAMPIRE DIARIES as an alternative.	2000-05-25
US	51901879	R1F7M6NFMASI55	0449209512	964718551	Curse of the Kings	Books	1	12	24	N	N	Weak Prose	As a child, Judith discovers a Roman coin, and from there on catches the fever for archaeology.  A peasant, apparently, she is suffered to play and learn with the children of the local aristocracy, of whom the fascinating  Tybalt is a part.  Tybalt eventually leaves for University, but when he  returns, Judith is a young woman, and she falls -- or so the author would  have us believe -- in love with Tybalt.  For some indiscernable reason,  Tybalt apparently loves Judith back, and they marry.<br />Soon after, Judith  and Tybalt traipse off to Egypt for an excavation (Tybalt is an  archaeologist, much to Judith's delight, since she's ten times as  interested in the subject as Tybalt is, though she could never join in with  him because, naturally, she's a woman.  What a logical reason!  Edwardians;  what can one say?) which soon appears to be cursed -- for Judith, any  way.<br />This novel was exceptionally tedious.  One knows before one even  opens the book that there will prove to be no curse, only the paranoia of  humans and a string of &quot;bad luck.&quot;  Not that many people would  accept the possibility of a real curse in today's society; but at least if  the author had TRIED to convince us, that would have been interesting.  Knowing before-hand that there's nothing to be tense about does tend to  dissipate the dramatic tension, though.<br />Even if I wasn't suprised at the  conclusion of the novel, I was suprised at the shallow-ness of the  relationship between Judith and Tybalt, and at Judith's emotional idiocy.  If these two had been a couple in real life, they could poster for the top  ten reasons why people shouldn't marry.  The story is told in a  first-person narrative, so it's impossible to get Tybalt's view of things;  but judging by his behavior, I would say that the man doesn't love Judith,  let alone care about her.  As for Judith, she doesn't want to stick around  Smallsville as a spinster handing out care packages for the village rectory  her entire life, understandably, and Tybalt's the most attractive escape  route.<br />The parts of the novel that should have been symbols of the  cementing of their relationship are hideous failures -- the wedding is so  depressing it inspires one to philosophize on the futility of continued  living, and the denoumet where Judith almost dies and Tybalt calmly sets  aside her rather legitimate fears about their relationship as if she's a  bubble-headed leash-dog made me want to puke, then scratch the bastard's  eyes out, in that order.  The scenes that truly show what their  relationship is like are the ones where Judith hasn't seen Tybalt for days,  and when she does see him (finally), he barely looks at her and then runs  off with another woman.  Duh, girlfriend!<br />This novel fails on two major  points:  it's not suspenseful, and it's not romantic.  Key elements for a  work of romantic suspense.  This was not the first Victoria Holt novel I  read, but it will be the last.  Better to save my money, not to mention my  sanity (or what's left of it), than to read another of her books if there's  a chance it might be like this one.  Uhg.ntire life, understandably, and Tybalt's the most attractive escape  route.<br />The parts of the novel that should have been symbols of the  cementing of their relationship are hideous failures -- the wedding is so  depressing it inspires one to philosophize on the futility of continued  living, and the denoumet where Judith almost dies and Tybalt calmly sets  aside her rather legitimate fears about their relationship as if she's a  bubble-headed leash-dog made me want to puke, then scratch the bastard's  eyes out, in that order.  The scenes that truly show what their  relationship is like are the ones where Judith hasn't seen Tybalt for days,  and when she does see him (finally), he barely looks at her and then runs  off with another woman.  Duh, girlfriend!<br />This novel fails on two major  points:  it's not suspenseful, and it's not romantic.  Key elements for a  work of romantic suspense.  This was not the first Victoria Holt novel I  read, but it will be the last.  Better to save my money, not to mention my  sanity (or what's left of it), than to read another of her books if there's  a chance it might be like this one.  Uhg.	2000-05-23
US	51901879	R2T0RWOMJFORCX	0884113760	520664868	Here Comes the Sun!	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Cute, Innocent Love Story	HERE COMES THE SUN is one of Lorring's best romances, though it does  descend -- strangely -- into Regency-like plot twists.  For example:<br />The  heroine is going to visit her rather eccentric aunt, who has decided to set  her match-making skills upon her youngest niece, when the book opens.  She's taking the train (which might be a little unrealistic in America, but  the book was written a long time ago and I'm assuming more people rode  trains &quot;back then&quot;), and while she's waiting for it to start off,  she sees a dog jump out of the train and scamper away.  Being a decided dog  lover, not to mention more than a little impulsive, she jumps out of the  train and chases after it.  She hears someone behind her that she assumes  is the owner, but once she catches the dog she finds he is just another  impulsive canine fanatic.  And their train has left without them.<br />After  spending the night in a cabin (a disappointingly uncompromising night), the  two feline haters are discovered by the hero's politicial rival, and  dontcha just know that the slimey little snake is going to claim that he  found his opponent jumping the bones of some innocent young thing in a  deserted cabin (and we all know that means he's user of women!).  To solve  this rather vexing problem, the hero and heroine decide to elope, and then  get an annulment after the election.  And that's when their romance  starts.<br />Love stories like this are no longer written.  One might say for  good reason, but the story is engaging and entertaining and sweet.  It is  dated, since one would find it hard to believe that anyone who lived  through or past the sixties would be as innocent as the heroine  (&quot;You'll probably think me hopelessly ignorant, but what does 'make  love' mean?&quot; she asks during one conversation.  This woman is  TWENTY-TWO YEARS OLD, for God's sake!), but that hardly detracts from the  story.  HERE COMES THE SUN is refreshing and romantic, and I wholly  recommend it.it.	2000-05-23
US	51901879	R3H8NN6PKFLQR6	0373223382	424006069	Prince of Time (43 Light Street)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Outrageous Plot, but Still Enjoyable	Cassie is on a scouting trip for the FCC in Alaska when she is trapped in a cave by an avalanche.  When she enters the cave, however, she finds a strange man who doesn't speak any language she's ever heard and who has  been trapped in the cave for God knows how long.  Then Cassie realizes that  the mysterious stranger is the man of her dreams -- literally.<br />Despite a  plot so outrageous it makes me laugh to think of it, York handles the story  in the best way possible (under the circumstances), and builds the suspence  very nicely as the book progresses.  It's not literature, but it's good for  a quick, light read on a rainy day.	2000-05-17
US	51901879	RLO81DIMNJHNT	0515129461	257304568	Come Midnight	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Good Trashy Romance	Nick Monterra is a famous photographer whose roots lie in the ghettos of Los Angeles, where he was once tried for killing a man.  Now, he's living proof that you can take the kid out of the ghetto, but you can't take the  ghetto . . . well, you know.  He's being tried for murder again, this time  for the death of one his models, and his ex-girlfriend.<br />Leigh Rappaport  is a rather successful, top-notch psychologist who springs from the creme  of California society.  Since her fiance is the leading prosecutor in  Monterra's case, he asks her to do a personality/psych profile for him of  Monterra.  Against her better judgement, Leigh agrees, and naturally she  and Nick fall in love.  But Leigh can't help wondering exactly what Nick is  capable of.<br />This is a great book, if you like romances with lots of  sexual tension and don't demand too much in the way of a plot.  Who cares  if it's trashy, it's still one of my favorites.  Forster inserts  not-too-subtle symbolism into the book, and Nick becomes an admirable  character that one wouldn't mind getting to know -- in one way or another  -- in real life.  This is a great book to read for purely guilty-pleasure  seekers, and one I would definitely recommend.	2000-05-15
US	51901879	R1PAND85NXZNFU	0440235340	130882527	School for Scandal:  How to Kiss a Hero	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Without a Doubt One of the Best Romances I've Ever Read	This book is so wonderful.  The words seem to reach out of the page and embrace you, and the author makes you care about the characters, and yet it still maintained a light and humorous tone.<br />The story, incidentally, is  about a young woman named Nicole, whose critical mother drops her off at a  debutant farm to learn how to be a &quot;lady.&quot;  Unfortunately, Nicole  is hopeless.  However, she does find joy in her daily fencing lessons.  Eventually, the school hires a rather infamous war hero (&quot;Bullocksing  Brown,&quot; I believe it was)to teach her the finer points of sword play,  and things generally progress from those phallic symbols and onward, until  Nicole's younger brother gets wind of the affair, and then the fur begins  to fly!<br />The end was a little murky, not to mention blaringly unrealistic  (I thought the main characters' reunion would have been more poignant had  it come about without all the kidnapping, etc.), but I still list this book  as one of my favorites.  A definite keeper!	2000-05-12
US	51901879	RR16QRPWZ0UWY	0451407725	582775925	Lady in White: Lords of Midnight	Books	3	26	30	N	N	A Fine Historical Romance Set in an Unusual Time Period	LADY IN WHITE is a quick read set in Elizabethan England (picture SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE, minus the depressing ending and spews of poetry).  Lady Arabella Purfoy has been maneuvered into a marriage with a reclusive  squire she's never met by the Virgin Queen Herself, only to find herself  completely heels over head in love with the man's steward.<br />The book  doesn't overplay either the relationship between Belle and the steward, nor  the political intrigue that surrounded the Elizabethan court before the  death of Mary, Queen of Scots.<br />While the book was enjoyable for a light  read, and one is glad to see the hero and heroine together in the end, the  novel doesn't pack any emotional punches, even at key moments in the story,  and there are very few surprizes.  Not a work of genius, but a good and  satisfying work nonetheless.	2000-05-05
US	51901879	R17NYQVCRGDB89	044021775X	219535110	The George Eliot Murders	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Good Read	This book is a vast improvement over Skom's first novel, THE MARK TWAIN MURDERS, which was a predictable and formulated mystery.  THE GEORGE ELLIOT MURDERS is not only better-written, but the characters, although &quot;stock&quot; in more than some cases, are better portrayed.  However,  the biggest improvement is the relationship between the heroine and her  love interest - it's more believable and interesting.<br />I have to admit  that I am not connoisseur of mystery novels, by any means, but I read this  book at the urging of my mother (she's one of those people who have the  mystery sections of every bookstore within a one-hundred mile radius  memorized) and loved it.  This is a good read that can stand on its own  outside the genre, and I would definitely recommend this book.	2000-04-03
US	51901879	R2RAGRORB8WDW0	0373073976	235509028	Suzanna's Surrender (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No. 397)	Books	3	12	18	N	N	The best book out of the four-part series	This is the last installment of Robert's &quot;Calhoun Women&quot; series.  Just for background info, the &quot;Calhoun Women&quot; consist of four sisters, plus their vain, flirtatious aunt (but she's older than fourty and  therefor not possible romance-subject material).  They live in a crumbling  mansion somewhere on the East Coast.  And, surprise, surprise; each book  takes us through four serendipitous romances with each of the four  sisters.<br />This particular installment concerns Suzanna (as you may have  guessed by the title), the eldest of the sisters, with her own business to  run, two kids to take care of, and a rotten ex-husband.  One day, she  decides to visit Holt Bradford, because his grandfather - coincidentally -  had an affair with HER grandmother, and they (she and her sisters) want to  know where the family jewels are.<br />Oh yeah, did I mention anything about  the jewels?  Well, the &quot;Calhoun Women&quot; are desperately searching  for an emerald necklace their grandmother owned, for some reason that is  never entirely explained.  But that's just a subplot, and a convenient one,  because it leads our heroine into the world of Holt Bradford.  Lucky for  them that they're not related.<br />Holt is an ex-cop who likes to work on  engines and act grizzled and revel in his general manliness.  Dontcha just  like him already?  And Suzanna is a broad, to put it succinctly.  She was  the beautiful girl who lived in the mansion on top of the hill, he was the  son of a fisherman who delivered fish and never got past her back door . .  . you get the picture.<br />This was the best book in the series because the  characters weren't as annoying as some of the other deviants in the  previous books, and because the hero was so likable.  Also, I liked the  uptown girl/downtown guy theme.  Otherwize, a typical Roberts novel.  Luckily, though, it's not too long to be much of an endurance.	2000-04-01
US	51901879	R3TIE0CBNP1QRF	0061057967	506903243	Kindred Rites	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderful	This book is wonderfully written.  The themes are perfectly balanced, it has wonderful flow, and the story is interesting until the very last page.  This author is one of the most talented I've come across in modern fiction,  and I can't wait for her next book.  KINDRED RITES is worth every penny,  even with the extra fees to get it on special order.  I'd recommend this  book to anyone who is interest in the supernatural.	2000-03-23
US	51901879	R13FT7XU2SA427	0553214020	996520695	The Scarlet Pimpernel	Books	4	3	7	N	N	A Romantic Novel in the True Sense of the Word	This book was much more romantic than I thought it would be.  The story is told from the point of view of Sir Percy's wife, Maugeritte (or however one spells it), who is disappointingly witless and self-centered, with a sad  case of female flutterness (&quot;Oh, what can I do, I'm just a  WOMAN!&quot; etc.).  However, since this book WAS written before Gloria  Steinem, I'm willing to overlook that.  Besides Maugeritte, the characters  are wonderful, especially Percy, and the novel is very suspenseful.  I  would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys romantic suspence novels and  is not a member of N.O.W.	1999-12-28
US	51901879	RM77YUEAW3OCF	0553577735	736459405	Charmed and Dangerous	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Wonderful Escape Novel	This was the first Jane Ashford book I read and, I think, one of her best.  The plot was well laid-out and grabbed me right away.  The hero was suitably dashing :), and the heroine (thank god) did not sink into the  depths of Romance Heroine Stupidity, a disease that seems to be going  around.  The exotic locales and espionage make this wonderful escape story.  I'd recommend this book to anyone who likes Elizabeth Peters, Barbara  Michaels, Susan Wiggs, or Lisa Kleypas.	1999-11-28
US	51901879	R1CCWUN3WEF9E1	0553577743	688304576	Bride to Be	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Jane Ashford Keeps Getting Better and Better	Jane Ashford has written her best book yet with Bride to Be.  Her writing improves with every novel she publishes, and I hope to see -- and read, of course -- many more of her novels in the years to come.<br />Bride to Be is  not a completely typical romance, though a Regency romance novel can never  really escape the confines of it's genre (nor would the readers want it  to), neither the hero nor the heroine are wealthy, and the courtship is not  conducted in the . . . usual manner.<br />What sets Jane Ashford apart from  other historical romance writers, and what makes her books so enjoyable,  are the historical details and the way she makes the relationship of the  two main characters progress convincingly.  While there are flaws in the  book (more detail about the hero's survival in the South American jungle,  for instance, would have been a welcome addition), I know of very few books  without flaws, and Ashford's novel is a joy to read and worth every penny.  I can't wait wait for the next one.	1999-08-25
