US	51901731	R36KLJB78XWV4U	1589395344	762454125	The Ancient Hebrew Language and Alphabet: Understanding the Ancient Hebrew Language of the Bible Based on Ancient Hebrew Culture and Thought	Books	1	118	175	N	N	main general claims implausible and very poorly supported	In this frustrating book, Benner proclaims (prima facie most implausibly) that Hebrew script, which was clearly partly pictographic in origin, kept its pictographic function even after it became alphabetic.  Even less plausibly, he holds that the Hebrew language and its script must have appeared simultaneously when God created Adam with a mature knowledge of the spoken and written language.  He claims to have demonstrated the truth of this latter view, but I cannot locate any such demonstration (see below on standards of proof).<br /><br />As the above might suggest would be the case, Benner combines these specific claims about Hebrew with unargued acceptance of the Genesis story - including the Tower of Babel story about the origin of linguistic diversity - as uncontroversially and literally true.  This is a one-sidedly fundamentalist treatment of the issues in question, and readers with other views on these issues will be unable to accept it by way of background (given Benner's failure to argue adequately for his own stance and the well-known weakness of such positions in scientific and historical terms).<br /><br />In addition, Benner's discussion of linguistic matters more generally (other than some of the specifics of Hebrew) appears naive and ill-informed.  His standards of proof appear too loose.  Further, he accepts (in general terms) the idea, most notoriously promoted in recent times by Mozeson, that many words in English and other non-Semitic languages derive from Hebrew - on the basis of 'evidence' which in no way meets the very robust criteria which have long been known to linguists.  This alone suggests that he does not understand historical linguistics.<br /><br />Indeed, Benner fails to refer to established linguistic scholarship, and instead invokes fringe and semi-fringe writers in support of some of his claims, apparently treating these authors as authoritative.  This is in fact not unusual among linguistic amateurs; they seem to locate the relatively sober fringe thinker or the maverick on the fringe of professional linguistics much more readily than the genuine mainstream scholar.  In this case, Benner notably invokes Fano, who was one of the members of a mid-C20 breakaway Italian school of non-scientific linguists influenced by the idealist philosophy of Croce.  Fano in fact rejected Croce's more extreme ideas; but he is still conspicuously non-mainstream in international terms, and he cannot be treated as authoritative.<br /><br />Benner also has a marked tendency not to distinguish clearly enough between generally accepted points and his own controversial claims.  A reader without prior knowledge of the structure of Hebrew would not be able to disentangle these two aspects of the material.<br /><br />In producing this version of his material, Benner has failed to take on board or even engage with the many crucial linguistic points which tell against his account of the development of Hebrew and its script.  I myself made many of these points in correspondence with him but apparently to no avail.<br /><br />All this will have the consequence that a linguistically trained person who comes across the material will surely (and rightly) dismiss it, as will other non-fundamentalist scholars.  At best, some of Benner's very particular proposals might possibly be valid, but these are lost amid the highly unsatisfactory general treatment of the issues.relatively sober fringe thinker or the maverick on the fringe of professional linguistics much more readily than the genuine mainstream scholar.  In this case, Benner notably invokes Fano, who was one of the members of a mid-C20 breakaway Italian school of non-scientific linguists influenced by the idealist philosophy of Croce.  Fano in fact rejected Croce's more extreme ideas; but he is still conspicuously non-mainstream in international terms, and he cannot be treated as authoritative. <br /> <br />Benner also has a marked tendency not to distinguish clearly enough between generally accepted points and his own controversial claims.  A reader without prior knowledge of the structure of Hebrew would not be able to disentangle these two aspects of the material. <br /> <br />In producing this version of his material, Benner has failed to take on board or even engage with the many crucial linguistic points which tell against his account of the development of Hebrew and its script.  I myself made many of these points in correspondence with him but apparently to no avail.   <br /> <br />All this will have the consequence that a linguistically trained person who comes across the material will surely (and rightly) dismiss it, as will other non-fundamentalist scholars.  At best, some of Benner's very particular proposals might possibly be valid, but these are lost amid the highly unsatisfactory general treatment of the issues.   <br /> <br />	2004-11-18
US	51901731	R439AZHUP1531	1568216157	377219039	The Word: The Dictionary That Reveals the Hebrew Sources of English	Books	1	11	13	N	Y	mozeson's linguistic methodology does not hold up	As a historical linguist, I have examined Mozeson's proposals and samples of his treatment of individual words. I do not deal here with the religious issues that arise but rather with the linguistic evidence and associated argumentation, in terms of what we have learned across the 200 years of scientific linguistic scholarship. The main problem with Mozeson's proposal is the comparative methods which are used, which are long outdated and are now used only by fringe amateurs. The probability of pairs of superficially similar words in apparently unrelated languages having very similar or the same senses by chance is in fact MUCH higher than Mozeson suggests. And in this particular case most of the alleged correspondences do indeed appear to be unsystematic and arbitrary; each correspondence is invoked as it is needed to 'explain' specific forms, but there is typically no good explanation for why different correspondences apply in different cases, or even an admission that this is a problem or an issue that needs to be addressed. It is already known that language change does not occur in this way. Using such methods one can 'prove' (spuriously) that almost any two languages share large amounts of vocabulary. The statistics involved here have recently been formalised by Ringe and other historical linguists, and while there is some debate about specifics the overall case is overwhelming. In addition: (a) in many of the cases cited here, other etymologies are already known or proposed with good evidence; (b) the proposal contradicts a large amount of well-grounded information about the genetic relationships of languages; (c ) the analysis ignores the fact that genetic relatedness (as opposed to influential contact) always involves specific elements of grammar and phonology as well as shared vocabulary. Because of all this, Mozeson's sweeping claims about the derivation of all other languages from Hebrew/'Edenic' are invalid. In addition, many of Mozeson's introductory remarks about linguistics are badly confused. There have been many other attempts to reanalyse language origins in terms such as these; they all fail, for the same reasons.arks about linguistics are badly confused. There have been many other attempts to reanalyse language origins in terms such as these; they all fail, for the same reasons.	2004-03-09
US	51901731	R3KA3QHGF5TZIB	1583940030	473090996	The Mystery of the Serpent Mound: In Search of the Alphabet of the Gods	Books	1	11	26	N	N	rationality essential (pace reader from Great NorthWest)	'A reader from Great NorthWest' claims that Hamilton's book 'opens your mind unless you've got the lock of rationality and science chained around it'.  The reference is apparently to my own earlier review.  But rationality (including science) is exactly how we evaluate competing theories about the world.  It is NOT out of date ('1950') and it is NOT the same thing as closed-mindedness or thinking inside a 'tiny box' (that does occur but is very rare in serious scholarship).  If Hamilton wants us to accept a radically novel &amp; in many ways implausible account of the matters discussed, he must produce better evidence and argumentation than he does in his book.  After all, if he is right, large parts of existing theories and ideas which are themselves very well supported must somehow be wrong.  Perhaps 'reader from Great NorthWest', or some other admirer of Hamilton, can marshall evidence &amp; argumentation and rebut my criticisms (which could be expanded to considerably greater length &amp; detail).  If so, I will cheerfully accept and promote Hamilton's views.  If not, I stand by my criticisms; and on current evidence I am confident that other scholars would endorse them.  (No one can say I ignored the book because of the views it expresses.  Some scholars would think it unworthy of comment, but I am an active skeptic and thus take a different view.)	2004-02-16
US	51901731	R10D4MNZCVN3WZ	0954504437	984643803	The Stone of the Plough	Books	1	1	7	N	N	treatment of crucial language data is wildly off-target	Ann Walker claims to be in contact with a Native American spirit entity called White Arrow. Originally White Arrow sent her seven key symbols, and later he and various alien entities - one of them called Zipper - met with her in visions and gave her platitudinous messages of the usual kinds: 'Stop polluting the planet!', etc. (They also spoke to each other in a language she did not know.) Walker felt that certain aspects of the message she was receiving would remain unclear until a date which had to be determined astronomically. She came to believe that this involved the highly contentious theories of Gilbert and Bauval about links between Orion and the Giza pyramids, and Gilbert wrote an interpretive appendix to this book.<br />Walker's entities sent her messages allegedly written in various ancient scripts/languages. She reproduces messages in what she identifies as the demotic and hieratic Egyptian scripts. (These are the names given to the simplified scripts that were used for everyday purposes, as opposed to the more formal hieroglyphic system). But the characters given by Walker bear very little resemblance to genuine demotic or hieratic! In addition, like most amateurs, Walker treats Egyptian script as logographic or ideographic (one symbol per word or concept). This is certainly the superficial impression given by the more pictorial hieroglyphs, but even in early dynastic times all Egyptian writing was predominantly phonological (syllabic/alphabetic).<br />Walker goes on to find Koine (Hellenistic) Greek in the messages given to her by Zipper. But her versions of the relevant words do not correspond with Greek expressions carrying the relevant meanings. Indeed, the sequences given as if in Greek script are meaningless as Greek, and some are phonologically impossible. If Zipper or any human 'expert' advising Walker thought this was Greek, they were wrong. Etc.<br />In fact, virtually all of Walker's comments about linguistic matters are naïve, confused and wrong. She talks as if very familiar facts about late dynastic Egypt (for instance, the major historical events which led to the local importance of the Greek language) are not well known and constitute dramatic revelations. In the same passage, she ludicrously identifies the Greek Septuagint as 'the first Bible ever written'. In addition, her conceptualisation is often faulty. For example, she confuses languages with scripts.<br />Since Walker does not identify her sources (other than by, eg, given name), it is difficult to follow up her claims in respect of help and endorsement from 'experts'.<br />For a somewhat longer skeptical treatment of Walker's ideas (but with only a limited focus on the linguistic aspects), see Lawton &amp; Ogilvie-Herald in Giza: The Truth. <br />I urge everyone to ignore Walker's claims.	2004-02-06
US	51901731	RYIRG16EZ8SN6	1591293855	510562367	The Antiquity of Man: Artifactual, Fossil and Gene Records Explored	Books	5	5	8	N	N	excellent info-filled exposure of 'vedantic creationism'	In this book, Brass has nobly taken upon himself the `skeptical' role of refuting ideas which are so far from the mainstream that most academics would ignore them but which nevertheless are not without influence and do need to be countered.  His strongly worded negative views on Cremo &amp; Thompson's methods and findings have already been criticised on the web but he has issued effective rejoinders.<br />Brass' book there provides both (a) the exposition of current and recent views on early human evolution and (b) direct rebuttal of C&amp;T's position.  The latter might have been treated at somewhat greater length.  In addition, there is no mention (by way of context) of other associated aspects of the Vedantic challenge to science.  But despite these gaps, the information in the book will be found very useful, both for rebutting creationists and more generally.  Brass writes authoritatively and in detail about matters of palaeoanthropological fact and theory, and he explains the various issues and arguments clearly and cogently.<br />Among the many more specific strengths of the book, one can list:<br />Brass' willingness to criticise mainstream errors <br />His honesty about disputes and changes of view within the mainstream (often misconstrued or misrepresented by creationists unfamiliar with the scientific method as evidence of inherent theoretical weakness)    <br />His attack on creationists for their crude conceptualising of the notion of `evolution' and their exaggerated view of the upshots of `evolutionism' as a belief system<br />His exposure of the patterns by which creationists (1) fail to offer worthwhile explanations for the observed data (at times even denying its existence), (2) misrepresent data, mainstream academic interpretations of data or the upshots of these interpretations and (3) make either no testable predictions at all or predictions which are readily shown to be false<br />His identification of other issues for creationism, including unsatisfactory publishing strategies (no proper peer-review, etc), use of old data collected and analysed by means now superseded as if they were equivalent to the most recent finds, prominent displays of support from influential but unqualified commentators, inadequately supported accusations about mainstream conspiracies to suppress `ideologically unwelcome' data, poor logic/argumentation, etc<br />There are some typos, abrupt transitions etc, and there is no index, but these points reduce the value of the book only very slightly.<br />A comment on the review by a reader from Kolkata.  I accept that Hindus might be annoyed if they believe that C&amp;T misrepresent Hinduism.  But if Hindus believe that the world is just a show, why should they care about science per se?  Science assumes that the world is worth studying because it is NOT just a show.	2003-06-09
US	51901731	R3M6B7WUCTMLGF	1843335948	712300405	Mysterious Ancient America: An Investigation into the Enigmas of America's Pre-History	Books	3	10	20	N	N	quite scholarly and interesting but weak on language matters	Devereux's book is quite scholarly and is informed by many of the most recent developments in the various relevant disciplines.  He refers to some of the cases which genuinely suggest more complex patterns of early diffusion than have traditionally been accepted (eg, Kennewick Man).<br />However, the treatment of linguistic issues (on which I am best equipped to comment) is relatively poor.  This is partly because, although Devereux begins with a brief survey of pre-scientific and `deep fringe' claims about the settlement of the Americas, he has relatively little to say about recent `shallow fringe' and near-fringe diffusionists - many of whom have made heavy use of epigraphic and philological material - or their opponents.  The names of key diffusionists such as Fell, Kelley and McGlone do not appear in his index.  Neither do those of their skeptical critics such as Feder.  In Chapters 6 and 9 and in short passages elsewhere he does raise some of the relevant cases, but the reader does not obtain a very satisfactory view of how these cases have been played out.  There are in fact too many inadequately referenced statements.  And indeed a careful survey would certainly lead to the conclusion that all linguistically based claims about migrations in the more recent but pre-Viking past are on very dubious footings.  Diffusionists should seek better evidence elsewhere (but see below).<br />This is not to say that Devereux's treatment is not useful.  For instance, in Chapter 6, Devereux discusses alleged Ogham inscriptions and the Bat Creek Stone; while not mentioning Fell, Gordon, McGlone et al. or their prominent critics, he does refer to the open-minded skepticism of Reynolds and Ross on the former case and to Kirk's relatively little-known skeptical work on the other.  But there are large gaps here, considering the heavy use made of linguistic arguments by many diffusionists.<br /><br />In addition, Devereux accepts (as at least plausible; sometimes as established) some diffusionist positions on language matters which are supported only by tiny minorities of qualified linguists (if any) or by amateur enthusiasts with no knowledge of current linguistic thought.  For instance, very few linguists have been persuaded by Xu's claims of links between the Olmec and the Shang Chinese scripts.  Positive references to these claims are found mainly in the work of Afrocentrists (not even all of these), creationists, rank amateurs like Matlock, etc.  Xu does not appear to be very familiar with epigraphic or historical linguistic methodology, and Devereux is too easily impressed.  Three key points here are: a) The meanings of Olmec symbols are not known, as Olmec has not been persuasively deciphered; thus one cannot be sure that any pairs of Olmec and non-Olmec symbols have the same meanings.  b) Many of the symbols used by Xu are pictographic and as such liable to be independently invented.  c) The odds in favour of short words and simple symbols - even non-pictographic ones - being independently invented are demonstrably MUCH better than Xu and Devereux seem to believe.  Actually, most non-linguists who write about such matters make this last crucial error.  (Many anthropologists would argue that similar errors vitiate many diffusionist arguments based on non-linguistic data such as legends or artefacts - some of which Devereux also rehearses.)<br />Of course, some of the diffusionist proposals discussed are not (or no longer) to be seen as dramatic.  It was mainstream scientists, not fringe diffusionists, who identified Kennewick Man as probably non-Amerindian and thus anomalous.  And on a broader front it is now quite usual to find the view that humans were in the Americas some time before 12,000 BP expressed by mainstream scholars.  Crawford's use of linguistic data (at a rather general level) to support the genetic and other non-linguistic data that point in this direction will not be seen as threatening.  On the other hand, more specific claims about more recent links between specific Asian and American language families (as rehearsed by Wells in his recent book) are typical of the fringe and of mavericks such as Ruhlen (see also above).<br />I realise that Devereux has a specific interest in shamanism, and his discussion of this topic is very interesting (although some of his views are highly controversial).  But I am not sure that the facts of such cases point in a strongly diffusionist direction.	2003-04-26
US	51901731	R1C64EPT64T7H5	0812906241	584552521	America B.C.: Ancient Settlers in the New World	Books	1	37	68	N	N	fell's weak linguistics led to major basic errors	Through careful archaeological scholarship we now know that the Vikings reached Newfoundland, and they quite probably went further south.  And some other specific diffusionist scenarios have enough prima facie evidence in their favour to warrant further scrutiny.  However, Barry Fell's pro-diffusionist use of epigraphic and linguistic evidence (often supported by very little evidence of other kinds or by none) reveals that his approach to these disciplines was of a type which was superseded in mainstream scholarship very many decades ago -  because it can be demonstrated that it is unreliable.  This vitiates most of his etymological and epigraphic proposals - as has been pointed out for various individual cases by Peter Berresford Ellis and others.  Fell did know many languages, but that is not the same thing at all.<br />Some suggest that Fell's linguistic and epigraphic claims are rejected because he had no qualifications in these subjects, but that is not true.  Ventris, the decipherer of Linear B, was also an amateur, but he demonstrably 'knew his stuff' and his findings were generally accepted (even though they were surprising).  In contrast, Fell repeatedly demonstrates that he is unaware or dismissive of C20 theoretical and methodological gains in these disciplines.  His specific `findings', eg his interpretation of the Indus Valley Script as representing Sanskrit, his identification of Ogam script in the Americas, etc, are rightly rejected as unreliable or worse by virtually all those with the relevant expertise.<br />In particular, Fell makes the usual error of believing that the odds are strongly against chance linguistic similarity.  Even in Fell's most active period there was no excuse for this error.  The case is still worse for those who continue to promote his views; it is difficult to see how anyone who is familiar with the cross-linguistic evidence and with the recent work of Ringe and others on the statistics can adopt such a stance.  Even a casual examination of the data reveals a plethora of false cognates such as English much and Spanish mucho, German haben and Latin habere, etc, etc; but we can now demonstrate this point systematically.  In general, professional historical linguists who are not active skeptics - even Nostraticists, who adopt less stringent criteria in identifying likely cognates - will not even trouble to discuss views such as Fell's.<br />Until defenders of Fell demonstrate genuine understanding of historical linguistics, and can rebut the mainstream objections to his methods (which appears unlikely), their position will not warrant or receive scholarly attention.  Those who do not themselves know linguistics and epigraphics should provisionally accept the mainstream consensus against Fell.examination of the data reveals a plethora of false cognates such as English much and Spanish mucho, German haben and Latin habere, etc, etc; but we can now demonstrate this point systematically.  In general, professional historical linguists who are not active skeptics - even Nostraticists, who adopt less stringent criteria in identifying likely cognates - will not even trouble to discuss views such as Fell's.<br />Until defenders of Fell demonstrate genuine understanding of historical linguistics, and can rebut the mainstream objections to his methods (which appears unlikely), their position will not warrant or receive scholarly attention.  Those who do not themselves know linguistics and epigraphics should provisionally accept the mainstream consensus against Fell.	2003-04-25
US	51901731	RSEALYXVQB2ZO	1852309377	204145680	The Stone of the Plough: The Search for the Secret of Giza	Books	1	2	5	N	N	treatment of crucial language data is wildly off-target	Ann Walker claims to be in contact with a Native American spirit entity called White Arrow.  Originally White Arrow sent her seven key symbols, and later he and various alien entities - one of them called Zipper - met with her in visions and gave her platitudinous messages of the usual kinds: `Stop polluting the planet!', etc.  (They also spoke to each other in a language she did not know.)  Walker felt that certain aspects of the message she was receiving would remain unclear until a date which had to be determined astronomically.  She came to believe that this involved the highly contentious theories of Gilbert and Bauval about links between Orion and the Giza pyramids, and Gilbert wrote an interpretive appendix to this book.<br />Walker's entities sent her messages allegedly written in various ancient scripts/languages.  She reproduces messages in what she identifies as the demotic and hieratic Egyptian scripts.  (These are the names given to the simplified scripts that were used for everyday purposes, as opposed to the more formal hieroglyphic system).  But the characters given by Walker bear very little resemblance to genuine demotic or hieratic!  In addition, like most amateurs, Walker treats Egyptian script as logographic or ideographic (one symbol per word or concept).  This is certainly the superficial impression given by the more pictorial hieroglyphs, but even in early dynastic times all Egyptian writing was predominantly phonological (syllabic/alphabetic).<br />Walker goes on to find Koine (Hellenistic) Greek in the messages given to her by Zipper.  But her versions of the relevant words do not correspond with Greek expressions carrying the relevant meanings.  Indeed, the sequences given as if in Greek script are meaningless as Greek, and some are phonologically impossible.  If Zipper or any human `expert' advising Walker thought this was Greek, they were wrong.  Etc.<br />In fact, virtually all of Walker's comments about linguistic matters are naïve, confused and wrong.  She talks as if very familiar facts about late dynastic Egypt (for instance, the major historical events which led to the local importance of the Greek language) are not well known and constitute dramatic revelations.  In the same passage, she ludicrously identifies the Greek Septuagint as `the first Bible ever written'.  In addition, her conceptualisation is often faulty.  For example, she confuses languages with scripts.<br />Since Walker does not identify her sources (other than by, eg, given name), it is difficult to follow up her claims in respect of help and endorsement from `experts'.<br />For a somewhat longer skeptical treatment of Walker's ideas (but with only a limited focus on the linguistic aspects), see Lawton &amp; Ogilvie-Herald in Giza: The Truth.  <br />I urge everyone to ignore Walker's claims.	2003-04-25
US	51901731	RB0SPCD2HR5QG	0812908473	647704029	Saga America	Books	1	6	55	N	N	fell's weak linguistics/epigraphics again	In general, there is no good reason to accept Fell's linguistic and epigraphic identifications.  See my review of America B.C.	2003-04-25
US	51901731	R5AOLPUCVNTF0	0316277711	391180575	Bronze-Age America	Books	1	7	49	N	N	fell's weak linguistics/epigraphics again	In general, there is no good reason to accept Fell's linguistic and epigraphic identifications.  See my review of America B.C.	2003-04-25
US	51901731	R2QT6C1WVU08OF	0471159638	305427596	The Origin of Language: Tracing the Evolution of the Mother Tongue	Books	1	20	29	N	N	response to larry west	West claims that historical linguistics in the 20th Century was largely misguided.  This is, of course, a matter of opinion.  But his claim would be rejected by the vast majority of contemporary historical linguists, who see their work as building on 20th Century achievements.  Even Greenberg's supporters mostly regard Ruhlen's position as badly overstated.  And in the mainstream proper Ruhlen is simply not taken seriously; see Trask's review below.  My own review was widely perceived as too generous.<br />Can West explain why he regards historical linguistics in the 20th Century as largely misguided?<br />West also claims that genetic evidence mostly confirms Greenberg's thesis.  This is an oversimplification/overstatement in that - although the most recent findings do suggest closer links between genetic and linguistic histories than is necessarily to be expected (see McMahon &amp; McMahon in the current issue of TPS) - one cannot assume that linguistic relationships will correspond with genetic relationships between groups of speakers.  And even if Greenberg's ideas came to be accepted (and if anything current linguistic thought is heading the opposite way), that would not necessarily afford much comfort to Ruhlenites, whose position, as noted, is more extreme.<br />Ringe and other such researchers do work with the oldest known forms; but in order to examine greater time-depths and wider coverage through mass comparison one must often also work with more recent data.  For many language families, this is actually necessary, because older forms are not available or not representative and any reconstructed forms are uncertain.  Mass comparison is, of course, used chiefly in just such cases, where there is simply not enough early data to perform proper comparative analyses involving systematic correspondences; where this latter IS possible, one can be much more confident of identifying cognates.  This is why it is also used in seeking deep-time relationships betweenlanguage families - IF the reconstructed proto-forms are regarded as sufficiently well established.  West's criticism of Ringe is thus off-target.<br />Actually, during the 20th Century the methods which West criticises were much more typical of the amateur fringe than of real historical linguists, although very few amateurs paid enough attention to the statistical issues.  Ringe's work is itself innovative in some respects.<br />We are not embarrassed by the fact that we cannot explain ALL the observed patterns of linguistic evolution.  We will continue to study these matters, working with our collleagues in human genetics and other disciplines (Ringe has done just this; see Sykes' 1998 book).  But we are not called upon to explain alleged relationships for which there is no good evidence.	2003-03-28
US	51901731	R7ZZ6FGW186F7	1583940030	473090996	The Mystery of the Serpent Mound: In Search of the Alphabet of the Gods	Books	1	21	37	N	N	linguistics inaccurate& unsophisticated / reply to drucker	Hamilton argues that there are historically and spiritually significant links between the Great Serpent Mound (Ohio) and the Greek alphabet.    I say nothing here about non-linguistic issues in the book, but this should not be taken to mean that I see no problems on these fronts (I see many).  I simply think it best to concentrate here on my own main relevant areas of expertise, namely general and historical linguistics and the history of the Greek language.    One problem which is shared with most amateur proposals in this area involves the use of outdated comparative linguistic methods in 'establishing' historical links between words.  It is demonstrably unreliable to equate (even tentatively) forms (from pairs of languages, whether known to be related or not, or even within any one language) on the basis of superficial, unsystematic phonetic similarities between forms with related meanings - even more so if the semantic link is not at all obvious.  Most such cases will involve accidental similarity.  Eg, there is NO basis for suggesting a link between <ophion> and <Ohio> (p 138).  (This has been known for very many years, and now the statistics have been calculated.)  In some cases it is actually clear that forms which are equated are NOT connected, because the etymologies are known; eg, <thesauros> is clearly NOT <theo-> + <sauros> ('god-lizard') (p 151).  The known historical phonology of Greek excludes this: the vowels in <the(o)-> and the position and type of the inherent accent on <sauros> differ between the two cases, showing that the forms are unconnected.  In other cases Hamilton accepts a standard etymology but offers a redundant reinterpretation involving a 'deeper' sense.  Eg, the letter-names <o-micron> and <o-mega> (p 147) very clearly refer to the LENGTHS of the vowels named (short and long respectively). There is no basis for an interpretation in terms of 'spirit'.    The identifications of Greek letter-forms with parts of the Serpent Mound (pp 153-191) are essentially impressionistic and do not appear at all persuasive.  One would need to see evidence that at least a high proportion of these identifications or the set as a whole should be preferred (eg on statistical grounds) to other possible interpretations and especially to the null hypothesis of there being no link between the Mound and the alphabet.  The null hypothesis would appear to have the strength (in terms of Ockham's Razor) of a better fit with the lack of historical evidence of contact between the two entities.  In addition, there are further specific worries here, eg confused comments about Etruscan and the origin of gamma on pp 156-157, inaccurate phonetics on p 191.    Other points in the linguistic section (pp 141-152): 1) The Greeks did NOT invent the alphabet (pp 141, 150) but rather (as Hamilton actually acknowledges) adapted a Semitic (probably Phoenician) abjad to Greek, using consonant symbols not needed for Greek to represent vowels (this does occur in Semitic scripts but became universal in Greek) and (naturally) adding symbols to represent additional consonants and clusters requiring their own characters.  This was clever but does not demonstrate any superior facility with Semitic symbolism.  (Naturally, the senses of the Semitic letter-names were not carried over into Greek with its very largely unrelated vocabulary.  By the time of transfer, the pictographic element in many of the letters was no longer obvious, in any case.)  2) The ordering of the alphabet as recited and used in dictionaries was derived from the Semitic scripts. (p 141)  I know of no evidence that the numerological values of the letters had any significance beyond numerology.  3) There is no link between the earlier syllabic Greek scripts and the alphabet; in all probability, most Greek communities went through a period of illiteracy in the interim. (p 141)  4) Language naturally flourished in Greece (as elsewhere) even in the absence of literacy.  The Homeric poems were originally composed by illiterates.  (p 143)  5) It is not clear what would count as evidence for or against various mystical-sound statements about language on pp 143-147, or even what some of them mean.  They appear susceptible only to subjective/ impressionistic confirmation or disconfirmation - which would naturally tend to involve unresolvable disagreements and thus could not carry much weight.  6) The counter-criticism of mainstream scholarly methods in these respects on p 151 is not adequately justified.  7) No good evidence is produced for the claims (p 144) that there is an important link between numerical symbology and the adoption of alphabetic writing and that the alphabet was very deliberately planned.  8) The choice and structure of the linguistic terminology is strange, eg (alpha),  (gamma), <CLASSIC dental> (delta), beta described as the 'mean' of the mutes (plosives), beta described  in terms of manner (plosive) but gamma and delta in terms of position (velar, dental), the non-technical term <guttural>, etc (p 144-145).  9) It is quite possible that some parts of the Semitic abjad system were derived from Egyptian hieroglyphs (p 144), but this does not show that any specific cultural influence is even likely, still less that any such influence later penetrated to the Greeks.  10)  No good evidence is produced for the claims about changes to the spellings of letter-names and their motivation and significance, made in general terms on pp 144-145 and later in more detail (eg on p 156 for ).  11) The minuscule forms of Greek letters are late developments only. (p 152).    Whether or not the general theory can be made to hold up (which one must doubt), Hamilton will need to address points such as those made above and to increase the sophistication of his linguistic discussion.  Until he does this, he will struggle to attract the interest of experts in these matters.    Reply to Drucker: the above is NOT an 'adamant rant' about this book, nor does it contain any 'dogmatic platitudes'.  I merely rehearse various rational arguments that tell against the claims and proposals made in it.  How else can one try to assess novel empirical claims?  (Is Drucker really suggesting that rational analysis is inappropriate?!  Surely not?)  Naturally, Drucker is entitled to disagree and to argue back.  And of course I might be wrong - and if I am so convinced (rationally) I will acknowledge this.  Drucker is quite wrong if he thinks that my reaction to the book involves awareness or fear that 'there is possibly something more lurking here' which might somehow disturb scholars ('reduce them to a quivering mess').  We are perfectly accustomed to the challenge of novel theories.  But if these theories appear irrational or poorly supported we will not accept them.  Indeed, I have shown more interest in this book than most scholars would: I have taken it seriously and have bothered to review it.  (There ARE cases of dogmatic rejection of novel ideas, some of which turn out to be correct - but this is much less common than is often suggested.)  I myself doubt if time-travel is possible even in principle, but even if it IS possible and is one day achieved it will be a brave person who bets that Hamilton's theory of the origins of the Serpent Mound will thereby be confirmed.  As things are at present, however, we must rely on the evidence that we do have - and on our use of rational thought to evaluate it and assess rival hypotheses concerning it.  In this context, I do not understand why Drucker apparently eschews Ockam's Razor, which I think I use as appropriate.  If Drucker thinks that there are powerful specific rejoinders to my specific criticisms, he should produce them.  I will then consider them.  Incidentally, Erich von Daniken's material is rather 'worse' than Drucker seems to suggest.  It is woefully unscholarly.	2002-10-30
US	51901731	R3R3PNZ4KM09P2	1893302202	577321302	The Last Atlantis Book You'll Ever Have to Read!: The Atlantis-Mexico-India	Books	1	17	31	N	N	no good reason to accept these claims (again)	Matlock has reached new depths of implausibility here.  His claim to have 'proved' his case is grotesquely exaggerated, to say the least.  Once again he places much emphasis on linguistic 'evidence'.  However, it is seriously misleading for him to be identified as a 'professional linguist', as he is in 'About the Author'.  He IS a keen language-learner, and he has apparently studied the rudiments of linguistics; but he displays no genuine understanding of the subject, still less awareness that his methods are (for good reasons) 200 years out of date and rejected by all modern historical linguists.  Almost all of his specific linguistic claims are absurd and no one should be tempted to accept them.  To exemplify the problems from Chapter 1 (available on the site):<br />(a) As in his previous works, Matlock relies repeatedly upon isolated &amp; unsystematic superficial similarities of vocabulary items (and at times even of very short affixes or single phonemes) in attempting to establish etymologies which would demonstrate his diffusionist claims about ancient links between the languages &amp; cultures of India (and other Old World areas) and the Americas.  But it was demonstrated over a century ago that such methods are wholly unreliable, and in the last decade the relevant statistical arguments have been developed in detail.  Matlock's methods are now rightly confined to the amateur fringe.<br />(b) He is not even consistent here, offering rival etymologies for, eg, &lt;coatl&gt;, without acknowledging that it cannot be that BOTH etymologies are correct.<br />(c) His claims on these fronts contradict: (i) many standard (and often KNOWN) etymologies (eg, those of English &lt;saint&gt;, the ending &lt;-an&gt; as in &lt;American&gt;, the Greek word &lt;autokhthon&gt; [which is &lt;auto-&gt; + &lt;khthon&gt;, contrary to his analysis], the name of the Mexican city Vera Cruz, etc), most of which he which he seems not to have checked even with a view to disputing them; and (ii) vast amounts of well-established information about the relationships between languages.  His central claim that Sanskrit is the 'father of most world-class languages' (whatever 'world-class' means here) is clearly refuted by vast bodies of evidence.<br />(d) He ignores the structural aspects of the languages which he compares, which are crucial in this context.<br />(e) His linguistic terminology is popular and non-standard, with no indication that this is a concession to non-specialist readers (and no reference to more accurate discussion elsewhere).<br />(f) He makes many claims about poorly-documented periods of early history without presenting any references or worthwhile evidence.<br />(g) He treats mediaeval and ancient texts - including even Plato's fable of Atlantis itself and indeed Hindu myths and legends - as if they were clearly historically reliable.<br />(h) He glibly identifies items mentioned in such sources with known entities (eg, 'Plato said that Atlantis lay just beyond a group of smaller islands which are our present day Antilles or West Indies.').<br />(i) He often misinterprets technical sources, eg, the recent discussions of problems in Mayan history which he quotes.  These are dramatic enough for Mayanists and other Mesoamericanists but involve specific issues and relatively late dates, not diffusionist theories about the ultimate origins of Mesoamerican cultures.<br />(j) He cites other fringe claims rejected by most experts (eg, claims about accurate world maps on Phoenician coins; Lal's ideas about language relationships) as if they were accepted as valid.<br />(k) He often treats very old &amp; theoretically outdated sources such as Pococke as if they were reliable.<br />(l) He makes some false statements, eg, that the Americas are larger than Africa and Asia combined, that Plutarch wrote in the year 2 CE, etc. <br />In addition, the book is loosely and incoherently written.  Overall, it cannot be taken seriously.	2002-08-12
US	51901731	RRL8EXTVZN0Y4	186368378X	760616769	And Their Ghosts May Be Heard	Books	3	3	3	N	N	not implausible but linguistic case confused/overstated	This book proposes that some groups of early Dutch sailors and passengers, marooned in Western Australia, had considerable influence on some of the Aboriginal cultures of the central west coast of WA.  A fairly high proportion of the evidence offered is linguistic, and it is this which I am best equipped to assess.  The author is a WA identity and amateur scholar who has achieved popular publication on linguistic and other issues. In this case his linguistic material has been informed by extensive reading in the discipline, and - although his wish to demonstrate his case is obvious - he has apparently made an honest effort to deal with the technicalities.  But his treatment nevertheless displays various misconceptions, and in some respects it appears simply naive.  These include: popular but long outdated comparative linguistic methodology, use of minority/near-fringe/outdated theories, very loose/inaccurate treatment of phonetics/phonology and spelling, implausible proposals on specific cases, some quite large factual errors, etc.  (If some of these features are in fact deliberate, with a view to an intended popular readership, this should be made clear.)  The upshot of these shortcomings is that Gerritsen certainly overstates his case.  The Aboriginal languages in question do seem to have some unusual features; but in most instances the case that these involve Dutch influence is not strong.  There must also be concerns in respect of the degree of cultural and linguistic influence which such groups might be expected to have in such a situation.  (But that is not to deny that Dutch and Dutch-speakers might have had SOME influence in the area.)	2002-08-07
US	51901731	R2XTAIH7ZMP2RX	1585091006	483447099	That Old-Time Religion: The Story of Religious Foundations	Books	1	21	47	N	N	evidence inadequate, especially on language	Jordan Maxwell and his colleagues Paul Tice & Alan Snow are inspired by the late C19 diffusionist writer Gerald Massey, who believed he could trace all religions back to a small number of linked cults (stellar, lunar, solar).  Massey was enthused by the then quite recent decipherment of the Egyptian hieroglyphs, and merged the genuine knowledge that was emerging from Egypt with the early modern fantasies - now largely debunked - about Egyptian mystery religions of vast antiquity.  Maxwell et al. themselves focus mainly on the religious issues in the usual historical revisionist manner, finding a huge number of possible links but arguing persuasively for very few.  They also draw from a three-volume work published around 1940, apparently anonymously.  This book has the overall title Priesthood Of The Ills and contains a large amount of non-standard philology, adduced as support for these diffusionist theories of religion.  This linguistic material cannot be taken seriously: it is on the level of Guido von List's absurd philology and similar British Israelite proposals.  But Maxwell et al. believe that there is a Language Conspiracy, which involves (a) keeping humanity divided by forcing many mutually unintelligible languages on us and (b) blocking us from discovering the original ('true') meanings of words.  This suggests that all changes in the meanings of words are somehow illegitimate, which of course is false; but Maxwell et al. hold that the meanings of some of the key words in ancient languages were very different indeed from those of the English words normally used to translate them.  This has been concealed by the forces of Evil.  These 'true' meanings are implicated in huge numbers of unrecognised links between languages; but focusing on pronunciation rather than spelling will apparently do the trick: you can then hear which words are really connected, because they sound similar!  (Two hundred years of historical linguistic scholarship is simply ignored.)  Then you can appreciate the 'true' form of Christianity and its links with earlier religions.  Maxwell et al. also make a few other unintentionally entertaining statements about language matters.  If these ideas are to hold up, it must be on grounds other than linguistic!	2002-04-17
US	51901731	R28XAV68BVIGXQ	0473022656	585850621	Hawaiki 2000 B.C. to Hokianga	Books	1	3	3	N	N	amateur work based on misconceptions	Leaf is an amateur New Zealand historian and genealogist who accepts the untenable 19th Century ideas of Tregear about a Indian origin for the Maori.  She also believes in a late-prehistoric world civilisation (based on Churchward's fantasies of 'Mu') involving pre-Polynesian cultures in NZ and massive early diffusion more generally.  Like a number of amateur NZ thinkers, Leaf uncritically regards orally transmitted stories and genealogies as very reliable.  Her comparative linguistic and cultural methodology (shared with other current NZ diffusionists such as Doutre) is far too imprecise and unsystematic; it reflects pre-scientific ideas.  This book will not obtain an academic response because Leaf presents her account as a narrative without any references or notes on archaeological or other evidence; but it is worth reviewing it here so as to discourage acceptance of its message.	2002-04-17
US	51901731	RH2ISJZ7DIZD	1552126684	323529168	Linguistic Archaeology: An Introduction	Books	1	33	39	N	N	another example of an untenable approach	Nyland's book describes a vast project involving the 'theory' that almost all languages were concocted out of Basque roots - analysed in terms of (a) a highly speculative system of syllable patterns and (b) alleged close links between Basque and a primeval 'Saharan' language.  Much of this exercise is seen as part of an enormous Catholic Church conspiracy during the Dark Ages, aimed at obscuring the true history of humanity and concealing the replacement of ancestral goddess-worship by artificial religions with male deities.  Nyland started from some obscure etymologies in Homer, and went on from there to Ogam script and eventually to Basque and the development of a novel general account of early human language.  There have been many other amateur proposals of this kind, but Nyland is unusual in (a) not himself being of the favoured language background and (b) claiming that most non-Basque languages were initially not real at all.  He has read more widely in linguistics than most such authors and cites in his support not only other amateurs but also very controversial near-mainstream figures (such as Gimbutas and Landsberg).  But he has clearly misunderstood the genuine mainstream positions of Ringe and other scholars (whom he despises) on the nature of historical linguistics; he wrongly represents his own work as more scientific in character than theirs.  I have the following summary comments: 1) The analysis of words and syllables into Basque roots involves huge amounts of extrapolation, in respect of both forms and meanings; on this basis, similar cases could be made out for almost ANY language as the source, and none of these could be 'disproved'; 2) The 'theory' implies that vast numbers of etymologies, synchronic analyses (grammar etc), genetic links between languages etc which are very well-established are all either concocted or simply illusory; 3) There is no known case of even one entire language being concocted along with an extensive literature; the requirements of the Church would not be sufficient to warrant labour on this scale, even supposing that it was feasible.  In the absence of clear evidence that these events actually occurred, the proposal can thus be eliminated by Ockham's Razor. In addition, Nyland's reliance on fringe sources - and occasionally on religious texts - generates various factual errors.	2002-04-16
US	51901731	R3MWED6A3RY20T	0969149417	29520872	Atlantis: The Seven Seals	Books	1	1	1	N	N	inadequate evidence and other major problems	ZS argues for a historical Atlantis in western Atlantic waters, and for a catastrophist and otherwise revisionist account of early human history; he makes or implies forthright statements about a wide range of matters.  Many of these are highly controversial and doubtful; others are inadequately informed by our knowledge of the subjects in question.  ZS identifies his own approach as 'scientific', in contrast with mainstream methods; but this comparison does not hold up.  All this can be well illustrated from his treatment of linguistic matters, which is the area where I myself am best equipped to comment.  This aspect of ZS' case involves mainly alleged ancient links - genetic or involving contact - between languages considered by mainstream historical linguists (and historians) to have been isolated from each other in early historic times.  Like most such amateurs, ZS relies in this enterprise upon unsystematic comparison of superficial similarities, which yields mainly pseudo-cognates rather than genuine cognates (linguistic forms with a common ancestor).  Such methods were abandoned by historical linguists during the 19th Century because they were demonstrably unreliable, and Ringe's recent work has confirmed this in statistical terms; but there remains a vast non-standard tradition of amateur work using these outdated methods and thus obtaining misleading results.  ZS himself is especially liable to fall into this trap because of his excessive focus (here and elsewhere) upon vocabulary rather than other, more systematic aspects of linguistic structure.  Language and dialect relationships must be assessed in terms of grammar and phonology (the latter even if they involve only borrowing) as well as vocabulary.  ZS cites in his support recent work on blood groups and other such physiological groupings.  Some of these data do seem to correlate with cultural or linguistic patternings; but the matter is complex and no definitive conclusions are possible as yet.  ZS'own Hungary illustrates the problem: the modern Hungarians are genetically similar to the surrounding Slavic-speakers, but their language is unrelated.  In this case we know why (invasion and then genetic assimilation of the conquerors), but for such events in the remote past we typically do not.  In addition, ZS relies at times on the implausible and largely unsupported ideas of fringe or near-fringe linguists and epigraphists such as Fell, Gordon and the truly 'far-out' Cohane.  He also makes various specific errors, for instance where he treats three manifestations of the same Greek word as independent cognates.  And he rejects reconstructed proto-languages such as Proto-Indo-European, assessing the evidence/argumentation for such entities in thoroughly confused terms and grossly undervaluing it.  This is partly because he wishes to propose alternative genetic and other links between languages (on the weak grounds mentioned above).  In summary, ZS's points simply do not manifest enough knowledge of linguistics to include meaningful criticism of existing ideas or alternative analyses which might conceivably replace them.  He cannot expect a hearing for his linguistic ideas.  Furthermore, he does not deal seriously with the scholarly consensus that Plato's story of Atlantis is fictional.  (More generally, he seems reluctant to identify older texts as fictional or even as honestly mistaken; see also below.)  Of course, there have been many attempts to suggest locations for a real Atlantis, but most of these cannot be taken seriously and ZS' version appears similar.  In his revisions of early history, ZS makes too much use of the implausible and largely unsupported ideas of fringe writers such as Donnelly, Fix, von Daniken etc.  He apparently believes that the cases for (a) catastrophist interpretations of early history, (b) the early discovery (and subsequent loss) of advanced technology, and (c) extraterrestrial intervention in that period are much more persuasivethan they are.  ZS also treats myth in a dubious manner, equating characters from different myth cycles - and identifying them as real persons - without sufficient attention to the associated problems.  Like von Daniken and others, ZS regards early religion as involving misinterpretation of extraterrestrials as gods and such.  His own theistic views (which he sometimes treats as obviously correct) emerge at times.  ZS places much emphasis on his proposals for the major re-structuring of chronology.  He may conceivably have something to offer here, but of course it is just as easy to find 'undiscovered' numerical patterns if one wishes as it is to find false cognates, and some of his material is very speculative.  There is also a danger in treating ancient sources as reliable on large-scale chronology, especially that of countries other than the authors' homelands or that of much earlier periods.  More generally, indeed, ancient and traditional sources have to be interpreted more critically.  Like many such writers, ZS believes in academic conspiracies which exclude non-mainstream ideas such as his own and 'excommunicate' those responsible.  This did happen at times in the past and occasionally it arguably still happens, but to nothing like the extent claimed here.  Most fringe 'scholars' (etc) are not 'excluded' but simply do not know the subjects in question well enough to contribute usefully.  ZS's style is also excessively forthright and at times dogmatic; it gives the impression of fringe amateurism and may alienate scholarly readers.  In addition, some sections need far more referencing to support the statements made.  There also appears to be a nationalistic element in ZS' thinking.  This is familiar in the context of amateur attempts to overturn ideas about ancient history and the relationships between languages.  In his turn, ZS seeks to exaggerate the influence of Hungarian and the Hungarians on linguistic differentiation and world history, finding pseudo-cognates and grammatical parallels between Hungarian and English, reading the arguably mysterious runic Yarmouth Stone (Nova Scotia) as Hungarian (while others read it in various other ways, in one case also in Hungarian but in the opposite direction and with an utterly different meaning), and at times appearing offended by the suggestion that Hungarian has borrowed from another language rather than vice versa.  At best, ZS presents a few interesting minor anomalies; but these are not enough to overthrow well-supported mainstream academic views of the remote past.	2002-04-16
US	51901731	R1YW6LDH15YR0K	1561719420	377219039	THE WORD: THE DICTIONARY THAT REVEALS THE HEBREW SOURCE OF ENGLISH	Books	1	25	41	N	N	outdated methodology and untenable conclusions	As a historical linguist, I have examined Mozeson's proposals and samples of his treatment of individual words.  I do not deal here with the religious issues that arise but rather with the linguistic evidence and associated argumentation, in terms of what we have learned across the 200 years of scientific linguistic scholarship.  The main problem with Mozeson's proposal is the comparative methods which are used, which are long outdated and are now used only by fringe amateurs.  The probability of pairs of superficially similar words in apparently unrelated languages having very similar or the same senses by chance is in fact MUCH higher than Mozeson suggests.  And in this particular case most of the alleged correspondences do indeed appear to be unsystematic and arbitrary; each correspondence is invoked as it is needed to 'explain' specific forms, but there is typically no good explanation for why different correspondences apply in different cases, or even an admission that this is a problem or an issue that needs to be addressed.  It is already known that language change does not occur in this way.  Using such methods one can 'prove' (spuriously) that almost any two languages share large amounts of vocabulary.  The statistics involved here have recently been formalised by Ringe and other historical linguists, and while there is some debate about specifics the overall case is overwhelming.  In addition: (a) in many of the cases cited here, other etymologies are already known or proposed with good evidence; (b) the proposal contradicts a large amount of well-grounded information about the genetic relationships of languages; (c ) the analysis ignores the fact that genetic relatedness (as opposed to influential contact) always involves specific elements of grammar and phonology as well as shared vocabulary.  Because of all this, Mozeson's sweeping claims about the derivation of all other languages from Hebrew/'Edenic' are invalid.  There have been many other attempts to reanalyse language origins in such terms; they all fail, for the same reasons.	2002-04-16
US	51901731	R32RXLD54YZSTU	0471159638	305427596	The Origin of Language: Tracing the Evolution of the Mother Tongue	Books	2	62	78	N	N	Ruhlen's position is not untenable but IS dubious	Ruhlen's approach to historical linguistics is an extreme manifestation of the use of mass comparison across language families to arrive at family trees which could not be demonstrated using the more clearly reliable traditional comparative methods - because the posited time-depths are too great.  Using those methods, we can reconstruct forms and families only a little earlier than the earliest written records.  Greenberg and the Nostraticists, reviving some of the 'glottochronological' notions of the 1950s, represent a more moderate version of Ruhlen's view.  Some of their proposals have been generally accepted (eg, Greenberg's on Africa).  But Ringe and others have argued persuasively (with statistics) that in general their methods are unreliable, because - given enough time - chance similarities are very likely and are indistinguishable from genuine cognates when traditional methods are unavailable.  This would apply even more strongly to Ruhlen.  He acknowledges that his position is very controversial; but readers should be aware that his book has not succeeded in persuading more than a few linguists that he is right in thinking that we can date or identify 'Proto-World' (the universal ancestor language), still less reconstruct any of it.  It is not even regarded as certain (though it is perhaps probable) that there WAS just one Proto-World.  Ruhlen's position is not wholly untenable, but beware of regarding it as the best currently available; the consensus is that it is dubious. <br />Even if Ruhlen should have a case, this would NOT support those who posit links between apparently unrelated languages on the basis of a few unsystematic instances of similar words for similar concepts, eg, very roughly similar words for 'god', 'father' etc around the world, wrongly seen as showing that all languages derive from Sanskrit, Latvian or Hungarian, or that two isolated languages such as Zuni and Japanese are in fact linked (all these examples are from actual proposals).  <br />BTW: most linguistics programs will happily accept a student who knows as many as three languages.  Even monoglots can study the subject with profit, learning about more languages as they go.	2001-05-29
US	51901731	RE2MA4OTVSGPQ	0393047881	689998726	The Zuni Enigma : A Native American People's Possible Japanese Connection	Books	2	28	33	N	N	davis' linguistic evidence is inadequate	I comment here on the linguistic material in Davis' book, which is scattered throughout but with a major concentration in Chapter 7.  The book is challenging and interesting, and some of Davis' other evidence might perhaps hold up; but her expertise in historical linguistics (despite having taken a course in it) is inadequate for the task of demonstrating a link between the Zuni and the Japanese languages.  She is more judicious and scholarly than most amateur historical linguists with bees in their bonnets, refers (not always with great insight) to the works of mainstream experts and discusses some structural features of the two languages.  But she still ends up positing links (involving shared origin and later contact) on the basis of (a) very general and widespread structural features such as basic word order and (b) superficial similarities (often only very rough; not at all systematic) between Zuni and Japanese words with similar meanings.  This kind of approach was found wanting over a century ago, and is now used mainly by fringe amateurs.  Even the few linguists who still regard superficial similarities as potentially reliable use much larger samples of vocabulary and put more emphasis on systematic correspondences.  In sum, Davis does not come near to proving her case in linguistic terms.  It must also be said that her casual, throw-away style does not inspire confidence.	2001-03-22
US	51901731	R25JVNNHU5XW8N	0595150128	30207705	Yishvara 2000: The Hindu Ancestor of Judaism Speaks to This Millennium!	Books	1	4	16	N	N	matlock again has no case for his claims	This book cannot be taken seriously.  Matlock claims that all religions, and especially Judaism, derive from early 'objectivist' Hinduism ('Yishvara'), which he regards as a nature religion involving reincarnation and seven basic rules of conduct.  To this end he revises the history of Hinduism and other religions and makes highly dubious claims about the mindsets of modern believers.  He regards most current forms of Hinduism as 'Aryanist' and 'subjectivist' distortions.  In some passages he actually proclaims that all people - even professed atheists - are automatically 'members' of Yishvara.<br />Matlock supports his basic claims by uncritically citing a mixture of ancient pseudo-historical and religious texts (read literally or metaphorically, as it suits him) and recent fringe Indian or pro-Hindu thinkers.  In many cases he simply makes unsupported assertions.<br />A prominent feature of the book involves 18th-Century-style philology, often relying on very loose similarities indeed.  Matlock tries to argue that many words in a range of languages come from Sanskrit or Kashmiri (he thinks that Kashmir had important early contact with Judaism), that everyone once spoke Sanskrit, that the Munda languages of India are an important source for German, etc, etc.  But most of his alleged cognates - invented by him or taken from unreliable Indian sources - are ludicrously wrong or (where less is known about the etymology) very implausible.<br />On non-linguistic fronts, Matlock develops a complex quasi-occult philosophy based on Hindu notions extended to cover St Patrick's Ireland, Old Testament Israel and the contemporary USA.  He also gives an idiosyncratic account of the relation between faith (good) and belief (bad) - although he admits that he himself does not follow this in his book.  He identifies his own approach as 'scientific' and 'empirical', and redefines the notions of science and rationality so as to exclude skepticism which rejects the paranormal.  His own canon of empiricism involves nothing stronger than the agreement of more than 'a few' witnesses, and often only his own subjective or unverified experiences and impressions.  Matlock makes various attempts to appear intellectually respectable, eg by criticising 'Outer Space cultists', but his own use of evidence/argumentation is no better than that of von Daniken and such, and he even accepts Atlantis as real.<br />I cannot recommend that readers buy this book.  It will only annoy the well-informed and confuse newcomers to the field.is own canon of empiricism involves nothing stronger than the agreement of more than 'a few' witnesses, and often only his own subjective or unverified experiences and impressions.  Matlock makes various attempts to appear intellectually respectable, eg by criticising 'Outer Space cultists', but his own use of evidence/argumentation is no better than that of von Daniken and such, and he even accepts Atlantis as real.<br />I cannot recommend that readers buy this book.  It will only annoy the well-informed and confuse newcomers to the field.	2001-02-14
US	51901731	R1FEQSPR1HW2CZ	0961741066	643509865	Proof of Vedic Culture's Global Existence	Books	1	25	35	N	N	no case for knapp's linguistic equations, in particular	This book adopts the non-standard view that Sanskrit was in India much earlier than is thought by most linguists.  This view is almost certainly mistaken, but there is an argument of sorts to be had about it.  Knapp, however, goes well beyond this in claiming that Indo-European actually originated in India, as early Sanskrit, and spread westwards, and indeed he proclaims that Sanskrit is the ancestor of all languages!  These more extreme positions, especially this last, simply do not hold up.   <br /> <br />Knapp's ideas historical linguistic reasoning is straight out of the 18th Century, before historical linguistics became a serious discipline.  He identifies superficial similarities between Sanskrit words on the one hand and words in English and other languages on the other, and deduces that these words have a common origin.  Because of his main theory, this amounts to claiming that the non-Sanskrit words are derived from the Sanskrit words.  Most of these links are simply asserted as facts, with no supporting evidence.  <br /> <br />As we now know, such cases are in fact much more complex and uncertain.  One cannot rely on superficial resemblances of form, even when accompanied by similarity of meaning, in establishing etymologies.  It can be established that words are cognates (ie, that they descend from a common ancestor word in a common ancestor language) - only if they display systematic correspondences in their pronunciation, repeated over large numbers of word-sets.   <br /> <br />Isolated superficial similarities prove nothing.  ANY pair of languages will display some such pairs, simply by chance.  The likelihood can be calculated and it is often quite high. <br /> <br />In some of Knapp's examples, the Indo-European roots from which a complex English word is derived do appear in Sanskrit.  But in most such cases the English word is clearly derived from Indo-European via Germanic, or else from the Latin or Greek forms - not from the Sanskrit forms.  <br /> <br />But many of the equations given by Knapp are altogether illusory.  A high percentage of them are actually known to be invalid; the words in question have separate, established etymologies and are clearly unrelated.  In some other cases, we simply cannot be sure whether words are cognates or not; there is insufficient evidence.  But in most of these cases there is no particular reason to believe Knapp.  And in many of them his equations are implausible on other grounds, eg historical. <br /> <br />One fairly typical case involves the name Australia, which is a modern coining transparently derived from Latin, where it would mean 'southern' (land, etc).  On p 76 Knapp states that it is from Sanskrit Astralaya, meaning 'land of missiles'; he suggests that the pilots of vimanas practised firing their missiles in Australia, thus creating the deserts!  This is just not true. <br /> <br />Knapp places a great deal of emphasis on linguistic equations, and I am sure he is sincere; but he apparently does not know linguistics well enough to use linguistic examples persuasively. If he did, I think he would realise that there is no linguistic basis for his claims. <br /> <br />It should be added that Knapp's historical expertise is also suspect, and that even if his story were true that would not imply that Vedic religious beliefs are themselves true. <br /> <br /> <br />	2001-02-06
US	51901731	R17KT7GWKWBSG1	0595134688	556466254	India Once Ruled the Americas!	Books	1	19	48	N	N	Evidence is very weak; not worth purchasing	Gene Matlock's book presents a hyper-diffusionist account of how Hindu culture/religion and many features of the Sanskrit language, originally found in Siberia and later in India, allegedly spread from the latter in an early diaspora to groups such as the Biblical Israelites, early Europeans and Amerindians. This, he says, has been obscured by subsequent degeneration in India and the refusal of mainstream scholars to face the evidence.<br />However, he himself produces little or no solid evidence.  Instead he simply invites his readers to see repeated parallels between myths/legends/popular historical ideas involving India and their equivalents elsewhere.  He suggests that archaeological and other evidence supports his views, but it is far from clear that this is so.  In places Matlock makes wild claims, eg that ancient Indians used powered aircraft.  He quotes various Indian and pro-Hindu sources in his support, but most of them are of low credibility.<br />However, much of his 'evidence' involves an 18th Century approach to historical linguistics.  Matlock identifies unsystematic, superficial similarities between Sanskrit/Indic, Hebrew and Amerindian languages.  He concludes that Amerindian and other non-Indian languages derive largely from Sanskrit or Kashmiri.  But conclusions like this simply cannot be supported with loose evidence of the kind used (as 200 years of scholarship has made plain).  Matlock does not even seem to realise that the grammars and phonologies of Indic and Amerindian languages are completely different in type.<br />And he oversimplifies the debate on Amerindian origins!  He contrasts his ideas and a common traditional Amerindian view (ie, the Amerindians were created where they now live).  Fringe archaeologists like Goodman and activists like Deloria have supported such ideas against mainstream scientific findings, and it is easy for Matlock to make them appear less plausible than his own views.  But he ignores the mainstream views themselves, ie, there was indeed 'diffusion' from the Old World to the New, but at a much earlier date than he proposes and mainly or entirely by land via Beringia (not by ocean-borne expeditions).  In addition, it is not clear why Matlock places so much more reliance on traditional narratives if they come from India rather than from the Americas!<br />Matlock's exaggerated view of his own importance is displayed in a declaration on the fly-leaf of this book.  He warns  readers, rather bombastically, that the book will 'destroy' their cherished beliefs and pet theories.  It will have no such effect on a well-informed reader, of course.  But it might mislead untrained readers - and this gives me my only real reason for bothering to review it.<br />I urge readers not to buy this book (unless it is very cheap, second-hand).  But readers who know enough linguistics may at least have a good laugh.	2001-01-24
US	51901731	RTO6YQVVNGGBD	026216180X	864767463	Tower of Babel: The Evidence against the New Creationism	Books	5	35	45	N	N	Excellent rebuttal of creationism from a novel angle	Philosopher Robert Pennock's book is a timely rebuttal of the new creationism ('intelligent design theory'): insightful, scholarly and thorough.  It has been challenged (not always expertly) on various  philosophical points and has inevitably received hostile comments from  creationists and others with axes to grind, but Pennock has countered these  objections very effectively.  One feature of the book which does warrant  comment is the linguistic focus; as the title suggests, Pennock exemplifies  and discusses the failings of creationism (and the successes of  evolutionary theory) chiefly in the context of language change, an area of  study which is less 'charged' than biological evolution but is just as  relevant to the issue.  <br />The analogy between linguistic and biological  evolution is not entirely precise.  Pennock (who makes very few mistakes  about linguistics) is well aware of this, but might perhaps have been  slightly more explicit on this front; I myself initially misperceived his  thrust here.  Language change (or at least specific changes of the kind  normally observed) involves features coded and transmitted culturally  rather than genetically, and thus acquired during the user's lifetime  rather than inherited.  In addition, many changes are not adaptive (the  main exceptions are some obviously adaptive vocabulary changes, as  exemplified by Pennock).  Furthermore, all known languages seem to be of  approximately the same type and order of complexity.  There are no  surviving relics of earlier evolutionary stages.<br />As this last point  suggests, the initial development of human language may well have differed  in these respects.  However, we have little direct evidence of that period;  and in any event it is easy to overstate these differences - for instance,  some languages ARE (somewhat) more complex than others. And, at the level  Pennock intends, his case against creationism is in no way compromised by  the distinctive nature of linguisticchange.  <br />I thoroughly recommend  this book.  A longer version of this review is to appear in The Skeptic;  watch the Australian Skeptics web site.	2000-01-16
US	51901731	R3MGPN4D40F3Y3	089281750X	688577859	The Sirius Mystery: New Scientific Evidence of Alien Contact 5,000 Years Ago	Books	1	32	68	N	N	Temple's scholarship has not improved since 1976	In 1976, in the first edition of this book, Temple claimed that the Dogon (Mali) have traditions importing specific knowledge of the Sirius system (8.7 light-years from Sol/Earth), which he believed they had obtained  several thousand years ago from intelligent space-faring aliens originating  in that system. These aliens had also influenced other human cultures and  had indeed been largely responsible for the emergence of civilisation. The  book was perceived as more sophisticated than most of its type and thus as  worthy of critical comment; but as more attention was paid to the  anthropological evidence it rapidly became clear that Temple's equation of  Dogon beliefs and astronomical facts was very much a matter of  interpretation. Temple's use of other disciplines to support his case also  came under scrutiny. One area where his approach left much to be desired  was historical linguistics; like many non-mainstream writers, he largely  ignored the theoretical gains of the last 150 years and nonchalantly  equated vaguely similar words from apparently unconnected languages, in an  unsystematic manner nowadays deemed utterely unreliable, wherever this  enabled him to claim that the relevant languages/peoples had a common  origin or had had influential contact in the remote past. There were  similar problems in respect of other disciplines. Now Temple has updated  his book, encouraged by astronomical discoveries which he interprets as  supporting his case. A new major object has indeed been (tentatively)  identified in the Sirius system; but the correspondence between this  finding and (Temple's own interpretation of) Dogon beliefs remains inexact  and in no way decisive.  Furthermore, Temple's use of historical  linguistics has not improved in 23 years; his new examples are just as  unsystematic and unconvincing as those he presented earlier. (At one stage  he actually presents a novel account of a key phonological development in  early Indo-European, specifically involving Hittite, which he apparently  developed in 1973. However, his understanding of the subject is not  sufficient for such a task; for instance, he seems to think that within IE  the sounds in question are confined to Hittite, which is quite wrong.) In  addition, his increased reliance upon alleged numerical correspondences  (which he interprets in an overtly Pythagorean framework!) inspires little  confidence, given the ease of finding figures of this kind to suit one's  case. At times the numerical claims appear bizarre (eg, he finds  significance in the mass ratio of the widely separated stars Sol and Sirius  B, suggesting that the two systems form part of an enormous 'cell' in space  within which long-range order exists).  Temple also embraces the currently  'trendy' but highly dubious revisions of Egyptian history (he dismisses  mainstream objections to West's claims about the vast age of the Sphinx in  a most glib and indeed inaccurate manner), and even brings in the  now-debunked 'Face on Mars'. More generally, he continues to rely heavily  on myths (which often permit multiple interpretations) as evidence of real  events in ancient times. And in all these respects he shows little sign of  having taken on board scholarly criticism of his ideas (he is more  concerned with televised documentaries and with possible governmental  conspiracies to silence him). Overall, despite Temple's diligence in  seeking more evidence to support his views, there seems no more compelling  reason to accept his thesis now than there was in 1976. An extended review  of the new book by Colin Groves &amp; me appears in The Skeptic 19:4 (pp  56-60)	2000-01-14
US	51901731	RLYVS9XF8A4UN	0684855801	592158495	The Lost Civilizations of the Stone Age	Books	1	20	34	N	N	Rudgley relies heavily on linguistics but misuses it	Rudgley's book cannot be taken seriously as an attempt to re-write pre-history.  His argument is confused at the outset by his failure to define 'civilisation' and his apparent tacit adoption of an unreasonably wide definition, which makes it very easy for him to claim cheap success.   The mainstream ideas he attacks are mostly 'straw men'.  Much of his  specific 'evidence' is linguistic (or at least involves what are claimed to  be early manifestations of written language), but this is discussed within  the framework of the highly controversial ideas of Gimbutas.  The evidence  for anything resembling written language at the relevant dates is, to say  the least, tenuous.  Rudgley also relies heavily on fringe philological  theories.  He has in no way demonstrated his case and his scholarship is  highly suspect.	2000-01-14
US	51901731	R276ZY4PDPAKXO	0670878839	302291051	The Alphabet Versus the Goddess: The Conflict Between Word and Image	Books	1	67	76	N	N	Shlain's grasp of linguistics is far too weak	In this book, Shlain argues that the adoption of alphabetic scripts in ancient times triggered massive, unwelcome changes in apparently unconnected areas of human thought and society, chiefly involving shifts in  the direction of 'linear', non-holistic thinking, an excessive concern with  logic and science, and patriarchical systems in which women and their ideas  have been suppressed and undervalued. In developing his case, he naturally  ranges widely outside his own field of expertise (surgery). I am able to  comment authoritatively only on his linguistics; but, given that the  discipline is so central to his thesis, the major problems which he has in  this area are crucial. These include: a) sporadic confusion of languages  and their writing systems; b) sporadic confusion of alphabetic writing and  writing systems generally; c) neglect of syllabic writing systems; d) some  inaccurate and dated terminology/perspectives on logographic writing  systems such as that of Chinese; e) utter confusion of phonemes and speech  sounds (some specific comments in this area are wildly wrong); f) adoption  of a wrong and misleading definition of the term 'alphabet'; g) apparently  limited awareness of the range of views among contemporary linguists; h)  adoption of speculative and partisan accounts of the early stages of human  language and society; i) inadequately supported claims to the effect that  many major historical developments were largely caused by the adoption of  alphabetic script (it is not difficult to see the effects of a  near-universal causal factor if one is determined to do so; but much more  systematic and objective investigation would be required before one could  actually demonstrate the validity of such a thesis). Whatever Shlain's  other strengths, he should have acquired a much stronger grasp of  linguistics before developing theories in this area. My extended comments  on Shlain's linguistics appear in The Skeptic 19:3 (pp 42-44).	2000-01-14
