US	51910677	R3TDFEFIVMV84C	0345427564	22929845	The Glorious Cause: A Novel of the American Revolution	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An entertaining &amp; factual account of the American Revolution	The Baltimore Sun called it \\"Gripping human drama\\". That is an excellent 3 word account of this book. It certainly is gripping drama with a lot of drama and action added to accurate historical events. It is told through the eyes and experiences of George Washington, Charles Cornwallis, Nathaniel Greene, the Marquis de Lafayette, and Benjamin Franklin. These five men were certainly pivotal characters in the War for Independence. Nat Greene was Washington's main battle commander.<br />The war was not one in which the outcome was assured for the Continental army and its state militia helpers. The Americans lost battle after battle and the British troops, at one time or another occupied almost every important Colonial city. However, the Americans always pulled out and left and the British could never force them into a decisive battle that might have ended the war. General Washington knew that the British could not defeat him if he was never forced to surrender so he and his army did a lot of marching and also a lot of feinting and \\"guerrilla\\" tactics. The Colonies would be soundly defeated in battle after battle but here they would come again. <br />Washington had taken Trenton but Cornwallis marched on the city and Washington, as usual retreated across the Assunpink Creek and started making earthworks and digging in his army. Cornwallis was certain that this time Washington had made the mistake and in the morning he would \\"bag the fox\\". Washington left 400 men to make a lot of noise like digging, bang their shovels on cut tree stumps and generally make a racket like an army digging in. The rest of the army slipped down the creek to another ford and marched on Princeton, taking the town from the British with relative ease. <br />In this book all the statesmanship and remarkable ambassadorship of Benjamin Franklin is shown to advantage. Franklin, time after time, convinced the French king and his government to give money to the colonies and to send troops and ships to help fight the war. Actually, after the American war was over, the French treasury was almost depleted from their assistance to the Colonies. It's hard to imagine how the revolution could have succeeded without the help and finances from France, which were procured almost entirely by the services of Benjamin Franklin.<br />Lafayette, Mad Anthony Wayne, Light Horse Harry Lee, Nathan Hale, Benedict Arnold and many other of the well known heroes of the war as well as many of the heroes that are less well known all play their parts in this exquisite telling of the American Revolution from 1776 to the end of the war at Yorktown where the Continental Army accompanied by at least as many French troops set siege to Cornwallis' encampment there and completely defeated the British army.<br />\\"Rise to Rebellion\\" by the same author is the story of the events that led up to 1776. It is also a superb book.	2003-09-06
US	51910677	R6QYREHOOD495	0395735297	507464947	War As I Knew It	Books	4	53	55	N	N	General Patton's Diaries	The book is composed of excerpts from the diaries of General Patton. It isn't the complete diaries but is fun and interesting. It's good to read something, in his own words, of how the general actually thought. It seems that General Patton had intended to write a book called \\"War as I Knew It\\". He didn't live long enough after the war to get it done. He does expound some about his philosophies and why he put on his war face to give the impression of being hard boiled, when in many ways he was very sentimental. He did not want to get soldiers killed needlessly. He made the \\"tough guy\\" act in order to inspire his men and psych them up for the job they had to do. His rough, hard, &amp; extremely thorough training made his troops among the best-trained and combat ready troops in the army. The hard training was to condition and train the men to know what to expect and how to react so they would not get killed for lack of condition or not knowing what to do. General Patton's biggest problem, not controlling what he said in public, is not treated very much in this book. His war principals are outlined at the end of the book. It's a rather short read and quite entertaining.	2003-06-12
US	51910677	R28UBYR3B03U9Y	0486290735	119696620	The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A fascinating look into the character of &quot;One of a Kind&quot;	I believe that this book is considered a classic of its type. Dr. Franklin tells his story up to 1771, and a most unusual story it is. Franklin's intelligence, general sagacity and energy are almost unmatched anywhere or any time. His accomplishments are so many and so varied that they would be unbelievable if not documented. A surprise to me was that he was very strong and athletic in his younger years. Being a printer, he regularly had to take carriers of type to the press. In a long stay in London, where he hired out to a printer, he would carry two rack of type up the stairs to the second floor, one in each hand. All the other employees carried one rack in two hands. They couldn't understand how he could do such a thing when they always drank \\"strong beer\\" and he only drank water. Franklin was a master swimmer who could swim for great distances and do many different strokes and tricks in the water.<br />His major accomplishments hardly need detailing although the vastness of them will come as a surprise to people who have not previously seen a description of all of them. Dr. Franklin shows a certain amount of pride and conceit in this book even though he seems to try not to. It really doesn't show that much ego however, considering what he had to be proud of. The language used in this book is quaint to 21st. century people, but interesting and completely understandable. It's a pity that he never completed his autobiography, covering the Revolution and afterward. Considering his immense efforts for the new country during that time, it's no surprise that he didn't have time to do it. I think that no one should miss spending a little time with this extraordinary, unique and fascinating man through this book.	2003-06-12
US	51910677	R42MG5T9IZTSK	0060927623	236168985	Patton: Genius for War, A	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is the Patton biography to judge all others by.	The book delves into Patton's outlook on life and war. It shows his immense boredom with peacetime soldiering and the unusual attitude about combat of this \\"born warrior\\".<BR>Patton was, above all else, a warrior and an accomplished leader. His attitude of hard training and conditioning, along with strict discipline was calculated to protect his troops in battle because they knew what to do and were in condition to do it.<br />Up through World War II, Patton was the greatest expert about tank warfare and also about combining tanks with infantry, artillery, and airpower. His lack of control about what he said was his worst enemy and always got him into trouble.<br />Patton was dyslexic, which gave him problems with reading and made him unsure of himself. Apparently dyslexia affects more than just the ability to read. He always had a strong self-doubt mixed with the firm idea that he was born to lead a great army. He believed in reincarnation and thought that he had been a warrior in all the great battles of history. He overcame his dyslexia to the extent that he was very learned in classic literature and especially in everything concerning war. He also became a very successful lecturer (when he could control his tendency to purple prose) and wrote many important papers about military affairs. <br />The way General Eisenhower used General Patton like a deadly weapon to be used then put on the shelf is well detailed along with Eisenhower's efforts to hold the allies together and the resentment by Generals Patton and Bradley for Eisenhower's apparent favoritism to the British. The book is a really deep look at Patton's career, the politics of World War II and \\"The Battle of the Generals\\". It's thorough but highly readable. The account of the automobile accident that took General Patton's life shortly after the end of WWII is clear and well written. This should be a classic of books about World War II and Patton in particular.	2003-06-02
US	51910677	RQZNHAI3AOED8	0684865475	247231538	Joe DiMaggio : The Hero's Life	Books	4	0	3	N	N	One view of DiMaggio's Life	This is a real eye opener about the behind the scenes life of one of the super-star ball players of the 30's, 40's, and 50's. His father was a poor Italian immigrant and fisherman. From the first Joe was a leader and an all star ball player. After joining the New York Yankees, he became their leader and the heart of the team. He was considered a super hero and apparently pretty much owned New York in off hours. Almost anywhere he appeared, such as restaurants, he not only was not charged for anything but was frequently paid quite handsomely for it. The business owners apparently believe that his being there was good for business. Many of the mob big wigs were involved in this sort of thing and DiMaggio had a bank account started by one of the mob leaders where money was deposited automatically when he made an appearance at one of their establishments. There is no mention or evidence of his being involved with the mob otherwise. After his retirement from professional baseball a bit early because of bad operations for bone spurs on his heals, he was still thought of as a hero and his public appearance business and the business of baseball memorabilia carried on. He became a multimillionaire from these things. There are allegations that his memorabilia sales were taken away from his heirs by a business manager.<br />His involvements with his first wife and with Marilyn Monroe are well detailed with inside looks at all the problems and the few good times. He seems to have been totally in love with each in turn and not to have received what he needed from either.	2003-06-02
US	51910677	R1ZU6CXISFI4UY	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The modern world's most dangerous volcano	On August 27, 1883, an island volcano, in the Sunda Strait between Java and Sumatra, exploded with a noise that must have sounded like the \\"crack of doom\\". The sound was heard almost 3000 miles away. The dust and ashes rose to 17-24 miles above the earth, depending on whom you believe. The shock wave of the explosion circled the globe 7 times. The dust stayed in the atmosphere and strongly colored the sunsets around the world for several years. The sea waves from the explosion were felt in the English Channel and 46,000 people died, mostly because of the immense waves that were like walls of water.  Actually, there were 4 explosions, happening between 5:30 & 10:02 A.M., with the last one being the biggest. <br />This book gives an intriguing and thorough examination of what caused the fifth largest volcanic explosion in modern times. Of course, it's also an entry-level introduction to what causes all volcanoes. Although 4 volcano eruptions were larger, they were not so devastating because they were remote and caused much less mayhem. The author doesn't discus the Vesuvius eruption that destroyed Pompeii so I don't know how it relates, but apparently even it is not ingrained into the public consciousness as much as Krakatoa. The author gives a short discussion of how this monstrous explosion affected the Islamic people in Indonesia and contributed to an uprising against their Dutch colonial government. This also bears on the relations with the Islamic world that we are having today.<br />The book is well written although some sentences are overly long and complicated, occasionally giving a little trouble in following the thought. The many footnotes can be distracting but most are interesting and belong there for further enlightenment. It's thoroughly enjoyable and informative - an overall view of the Krakatoa story and of volcanoes and plate tectonics.<BR>Overall it is an outstanding, well done book.	2003-05-24
US	51910677	RYV9G59V4FVTP	0696217120	419193157	Trading Spaces Behind the Scenes: Including Decorating Tips and Tricks	Books	5	41	45	N	N	The Stars of Trading Spaces	The book is an inside look at the designers and others who appear on the TV show. It is not meant to be a &quot;How To&quot; book. Within the scope of its purpose, it does well. It shows many pictures and gives a lot of information about the people. It's a sort of introduction to the show through its stars and does a good job of showing their personalities, quirks, &amp; mess ups. It does show a little about the rooms that have been decorated on the show and has a list with comments about every show at the end of the book. It also does show a few tips about decorating. There are two more books scheduled to be published that will be more like decorating &quot;How To&quot;.	2003-04-06
US	51910677	R2V7LV92CREKX1	0743400259	913599983	An American Life	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Ex-President Reagan's Story in His Own Words	Ronald Reagan is still &quot;The Great Communicator&quot;. His narrative of his life is written in such a way that it is easy to understand, and straight forward. It covers his life from the earliest times until the end of his presidency. As a Reagan man, I may be prejudiced but I think he makes it obvious that he was always a sincere worker for the good of the country. Obviously, his &quot;Reaganomics&quot; did get the country out of a recession. Just as obviously, his policies of a strong America that was no longer falling behind the Russians in military power plus his diplomacy with the Russians was a great help in the end of the Cold War and some of the hostilities with the Russians. He covers the Iran-Contra affair pretty thoroughly. It seems pretty obvious that he made a mistake on that affair but I do think it was an unwise decision and not a deliberate botch. I like his opinion and description of the &quot;Tax and Spend&quot; Congresses&quot;. Reagan has been accused of being a bumpkin or being uneducated. It seems to me that he had a much clearer idea of what the country needed than most politicians.	2003-04-06
US	51910677	R3VGZCLEWEPKFV	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Inside World of Presidential Decision Making	This is a book that all Americans should read if only to see how the Presidential decision making works. It has some good insights into the personalities of Bush and all of his cabinet. Sometimes President Bush seems heavy handed but again we may have had a lot too much diplomacy in the last years. This was an answer to an out and out act of war by terrorists and Bush's answer to it was quite a bit less violent than the answer to the last such act against the U.S.A. (Pearl Harbor) which had fewer casualties than the 9/11 tragedy.<br />This is an in depth look at the meetings of the major decision makers other than Congress. It contains many quotes of how the cabinet and the president spoke of happenings and planning concerning the war against terrorism. It also shows how the media can affect public opinion in that people were becoming impatient to see some results because of the media agitation. Some were shouting that it was another quagmire like Viet Nam although it had only been a few weeks since the tragedy. The war in Afghanistan came together all at once and finished in a hurry afterward.<br />The book was written before the second Iraq war and only contains a comparative few references to the problems with Iraq, although it is constantly on the minds of the principal people in the book.<br />The author made a highly readable book with direct language and mostly fast moving narrative.	2003-04-06
US	51910677	R1U888O8ODNF75	0671634232	127499313	My Turn at Bat: The Story of My Life (Fireside Sports Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Hall of Fame book by one of the greatest Hall of Famers	The story is an entertaining look at Williams' career as a ballplayer, fisherman and ex ball player. It talks about his strange career with the Red Sox fans that would boo him in spite of his brilliant hitting. His study of the game, especially batting and dedication to being a near perfect hitter is a pretty good insight into why the booing bothered him so much and led to some bad displays of resentment by him to the fans. The spitting incidents and the time he accidentally threw a bat into the stands and hit a lady spectator on the head are well covered. His resentment toward most sportswriters is a continuation of his reaction to the reception he received in Boston. It's a large contrast to the welcome given to Joe DiMaggio in New York and the rivalry between Williams and DiMaggio is covered too. In later years, Williams mellowed and so did the fans so that their relationship was a good one. One wonders what kind of statistics Williams would have had if he had not missed five years in the military service, being a pilot in World War II and in Korea. One of his statistics that I don't often see mentioned is the fact that he is one of only two players to win the Triple Crown twice.<br />Besides being a \\"Hall of Fame\\" ball player, Ted Williams was also a hall of fame fisherman and there is a lot of fishing talked about in the book. <br />Ted Williams was definitely one of Baseball's greatest hitters and an individualist, plus being quite a character. This book gives a good insight into these things in his \\"own words\\". It should be a must for any baseball fan.	2003-03-27
US	51910677	R136YEYV1UEDWB	0743246489	354374520	What Do You Think of Ted Williams Now?: A Remembrance	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A small book that says a lot.	This is a good, quick look into what the great baseball player was really like. It gives some explanations about his tempestuous nature and shows that he had some quite different ideas in his later years. His show of temper seems to have come from his intensely competitive nature and his striving to be perfect. He had a hard time handling any kind of failure. <br />The book is a reprint of the author's 1986 article for Esquire magazine, with additions for the years after 1986. The article is acclaimed as one of the finest pieces of sports reporting ever written.<br />Anyone who likes baseball should like this book.	2003-03-16
US	51910677	R35RMWVE065ONM	0805056866	410651536	Eisenhower: A Soldier's Life	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An analysis of Eisenhower's military career.	This book tells just about all a person would want to know about Eisenhower's career as a soldier. From the early days when he pined for a combat command but was always assigned to staff jobs up to the end of World War II when he was the Allied Supreme Commander in Europe and a five star general. According to this book, he was still basically an administrative and political general all through the war. His number one achievement seems to have been keeping the Allied forces working more or less together, which seems to have required mostly politics and compromise. He doesn't seem to have ever been a tactician or a strategist. His command was constantly plagued by the personal ambitions of his subordinate generals, Patton, Montgomery, and Bradley. As per the book Patton was a genius at tactics but very unstable at times; Montgomery was an exceptional battlefield general but also a prima donna; Bradley was a competent general but a bit on the conservative and dogmatic side. Keeping all these personalities cooperating must have indeed been a tough job. Adding on all the other duties, including the vast administrative work made Eisenhower's job more than one man should have to do. Failing to delegate some of the other duties seems to have been one of his faults. <br />The book doesn't go into a lot of detail about the supposed assignation with his woman driver, Kay Summersby. It states that Eisenhower had little time for such a thing and little time when he wasn't surrounded by a lot of people, making it tough to have such a relationship. It does sound like he had a lot of interest in her. <br />Eisenhower's tremendously heavy decision to postpone the D-Day invasion for one day because of bad weather and then to go ahead with it the next day on the strength of a guess by his weather forecaster is given a pretty good treatment. The weather as it was on D-Day seems to have helped rather than hurt the Allies, so he couldn't have made a better decision.<br />There are some pretty good insights about the end of the war and the Berlin situation.<br />Parts of the General's early life were a surprise to me. It's interesting that he was a bare knuckle fighting champion and star athlete in his boyhood. He was also slated to be a star football player at West Point until he permanently injured his knee in cavalry training.<BR>The fact that he was an expert cook and a world class poker player was a surprise to me.<br />All in all this is a worthwhile book for anyone who wants to study World War II or military history.	2003-03-08
US	51910677	R4V7EAMA24USO	0385504713	474925746	Reagan's War: The Epic Story of his Forty Year Struggle and Final Triumph Over Communism	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A really enlightening book!	The depth of Ronald Reagan's opposition to communism is thoroughly shown here. His 40 year fight against it is a story of high dedication. Although he was accused of being an uneducated bumpkin, he seems to have had a clearer idea of the threat to the United States from Communist Russia than his \\"more arcane\\" critics. It seems that most of his predecessors tended to only compromise and play into the hands of the communist block. Reagan never hem hawed about anything or backed down about anything. He always clearly expressed his opinions and came head on against the Russian leaders and communism. Putting a stop to the arms treaties that played into the hands of the Russians, limiting our arms expansion while the Russians steadily built theirs up, and forcing Russia into an arms race where they could not keep up with the U.S.A. was a large contributing factor in the break up of the U.S.S.R. and taking down the Berlin wall. His support of Radio Free Europe and aid to other countries that wanted to be free of communism also was a main factor. He is credited by Poland as a major contributor to their Solidarity movement and eventual liberation from the communists. <br />Reagan was a leader in the war to keep communists from taking over the motion picture industry in the 1930's.  When the communist organized protesters put up a picket line to keep actors from going onto the lot to work on movies, Reagan refused to sneak into the lot through a pipeline like many others who kept on working. He went in through the front. He was probably the catalyst that kept the communist takeover from working.<br />Reagan's strength of character and dedication to his cause is surely one of the great achievements of the free world. His contributions are hard to minimize. This book thoroughly covers everything from the early Hollywood days to the fall of the Berlin Wall.	2003-03-08
US	51910677	R1JLYQN69UBNN5	0060195339	45372276	Sandy Koufax: A Lefty's Legacy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Meet Sandy Koufax	This book is a well done effort to give its reader's a good idea of the kind of person that Sandy Koufax was as well as detailing the accomplishments of one of the greatest pitchers of all time. Koufax is Jewish and a large part of the book is dedicated to racial prejudice, not only against Jews but all racial prejudice. <br />Koufax is shown to be a kind and friendly person who also likes his privacy and doesn't want a lot of fuss made over him. He was extremely popular with his teammates and even players from other teams. His partnership holdout along with Don Drysdale was the start of better bargaining power for ballplayers and eventually was a stepping stone for other people to develop the free agency policy.<br />The book details some theories about how Koufax was able to pitch the way he did, how he studied pitching motion, and improved to be the premier pitcher that he was. He was not used much during his first 6 years of his 12 years with the Dodgers and also was not quite the pitcher he became in his last six years. The last six years he broke nearly all records and did things no one else had ever done. <br />After retiring from baseball, Koufax has continued his individualism and has helped many pitchers to develop their skills. Some examples are Tom Seaver and Nolan Ryan.	2003-03-08
US	51910677	R11HRSSUUMZAYJ	0300095325	853706599	Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Understanding Franklin	This is a very excellent introduction for anyone with an interest in Franklin. I concentrates mostly on trying to understand the man, what and how he thought, what caused him to do as he did and still has many references to the multitude of accomplishments this major genius had. The author writes that Franklin was pushed by a desire to be useful, not just to himself or his family but to mankind in general and the people of America in particular. He would rather be useful than rich. He was very useful as an inventor and a scientist, having discovered the nature of electricity, invented the lightning rod, the Franklin smokeless stove, and a good number of scientific advancements including a partial mapping of the Gulf Stream. Rather than to stick with the scientific experiments he loved so much, his idea of important usefulness was in improving the status of the American people. He succeeded in doing that, probably more than any other individual, having founded the first Philadelphia militia, fire department, university, library, hospital and social club. He also wrote most of the first U.S. Articles of Confederation and was active in all the drafting of later Constitutions. As an ambassador to France, he had no peer. He constantly was able to get loans for America to help carry on the war for independence and do help get French military aid for the United States. The French people idolized Franklin, as did the Americans, and most of the <BR>English people except the people who made the laws.<br />Franklin would always present his ideas and hope that they would be accepted but if they were not, he would fight just as hard for what the people wanted. He had his ideas but wished for the American people to have things as they preferred. Always believing in a unified British Empire with England treating the \\"colonies\\" as equals, he was not a revolutionary and did everything he could as an envoy to England to cause the British government to see that it was to their advantage to be fair to America. He was finally convinced that the British government would never treat the \\"colonies\\" fairly and then he worked harder than anyone for an independent America and also for a united America.	2003-02-02
US	51910677	R3TZUPTKIXR1MM	0812514300	681994924	Good Night, Mr. Holmes: An Irene Adler Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Highly polished writing	Ms. Douglas is a talented and practiced writer. This book and the others of this series show how well she has honed her craft.<br />This is a deeper look at Irene Adler who was a character in Doyle's, &quot;A Scandal in Bohemia&quot;. She was one of the few people and the only woman to outwit Sherlock Holmes. The book retells the story from Adler's viewpoint and goes on to solve some other puzzles. Irene Adler, as she appears in the Douglas books, is truly an amazing woman. One would be hard pressed not to have admiration for her and her enormous abilities. She is shown as a virtuous, honest, married woman in this book instead of the &quot;fallen woman&quot; she is portrayed to be in the Doyle book.<BR>All the narrative is done from the supposed diary of Penelope Huxley (Adler's Doctor Watson). Ms. Huxley is a dedicated spinster who apparently is meant to be the conscience of Victorian London. Some of her straight laced, over done morals are a bit trying but she is probably representative of the outlook of &quot;proper&quot; Victorian England. Penelope is a whiz at taking notes, much as Archie Goodwin is a supposed human tape recorder (Nero Wolfe series). It's very convenient to have someone on hand to do nothing but observe and record, thereby giving more credence to the story. There is much name dropping in this and all the other books of the series. Famous characters appear here and there for no apparent reason except to give added spice to the book. I think anyone who likes the Holmes series or who likes to boost the status of women in general will enjoy this book and the ones following it.	2003-01-26
US	51910677	R1T6P5PSROGE9W	0553381520	899258075	The Beekeeper's Apprentice	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A female Sherlock Holmes	This is one of the best of the new genre of books to chronicle a woman as being on a par with Sherlock Holmes as a detective. This one does not make Holmes into an inferior curmudgeon as some of the others do. The young woman is rather shown to be of the same level of intellect and observation powers as Holmes. <br />While walking along in the countryside, reading a book, 15 year old Mary Russell almost steps on Sherlock Holmes, who has retired to the country and become a bee keeper. Holmes is impressed by her intellect, wit and powers of observation. He invites her for tea and from there they progress to the status of teacher and pupil. Holmes tutors her in all his detective skills and she learns very well. They collaborate in solving several crimes and eventually come to grips with a master criminal. The way they combine to solve and fight crimes is entertaining. The character of Mary Russell is well done and Holmes is reasonably like the \\"real\\" Holmes. This book is well written and has a nice narrative and plot. I look forward to reading others of the series.	2003-01-26
US	51910677	R3F18N18QR0OKO	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Life of a Patriot and Statesman	Mr. McCullough shows that John Adams was a complex man with many human frailties, inner conflicts and self-doubts - and a testy, hot temper. In spite of all this he was a dedicated patriot who put his country's interests even before his own and never failed to answer his country's call for help. After pushing the Declaration of Independence through the Continental Congress at just the right time by his inspired reasoning and oratory, he then became a delegate to France and later was responsible for obtaining a most important loan from the Dutch in order to help put the fledgling country on a better economic base. That loan was so important and so hard to get that according to McCullough, no one else could have done it. Adams then was a major contributor to the drafting of the United States Constitution. Always convinced of the importance of a strong naval force, Adams was almost single handedly responsible for obtaining the funding and for the building of the country's first navy ships. These ships did play a large part in the outcome of the War of 1812 and were available solely because of Adams' pushing for a strong navy. Jefferson and many others were against funding a navy and wanted to rely on ground forces and a strong assist from France. Adams always resisted the interfering hands of other countries in the running of the new United States. Adams was the main factor in keeping the U.S. out of a war with France and thereby laid the groundwork for Jefferson's later Louisiana Purchase, which doubled the size of the new country. Had the U.S. been at war with France, the Purchase could never have taken place. An emphasis is put on the difficult presidential race between Adams and Jefferson and the rift between the two men who had been strong friends. There is also emphasis on the later reconciliation between the two after both had retired from public life, and the many letters written between them. These letters apparently serve as great illuminators on the great events the two men had lived through. This book is a well-done work about an extraordinary man who was a true patriot and statesman, dedicated to the service of his country. He made mistakes but what would the country and the world have been like without him.	2003-01-12
US	51910677	R376C2L6EYENGR	0061015628	186319509	Cat Laughing Last (A Joe Grey Mystery)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A charming book!	I think this is the best book of this series. There are 7 of them and each succeeding one has been better than the last. This series of books is about cats that are of a different sort than the usual pet cat. They are able to speak and read human language and are intelligent on a par with humans - at least. Ms. Murphy is a good writer and is obviously well acquainted with cats. The book's main charm is anyone who is well acquainted with cats should feel that if there were cats of this sort in the real world, they would act and perform in just the way the book's characters do. The cats have become interested in police work on the sly. They are able to go places and see things that human \\"cops\\" can't. They call in anonymous phone tips to put the police on the right trail and always ferret out things in an entertaining way. Molena Point, their town must be the best town in America except that it really has a lot of murders and other crimes for its size. It sounds like the ideal community and with such a wonderful \\"Feline Police Dept.\\" to handle crime, why worry. The interaction between the cats and their human \\"house mates\\" is interesting and about what one would expect from sentient cats, if any did exist. The details of how the cats trail after clues and how they can go anywhere and do so many things is always entertaining and often humorous. The author has a finely tuned sense of humor.	2002-11-24
US	51910677	RPOMEL2DBIXV2	0060009829	614798373	General Patton: A Soldier's Life	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Good as an introduction or overview to the subject .	The author did an unusual amount of research for this book. It took 12 years to research and write the book. I think it must have been researched as well as it could have been but then the author simply makes a dry listing of facts. The book comes out very large, with maybe a few minor details that were not common knowledge before. It is much less interesting than it should be. I think the author should have spent the extra time in the writing instead of pure research. The few personal ideas the author puts out are questionable in my opinion. For instance, he claims that the two massacres attributed to American troops in Italy were caused by Patton&#146;s fiery speeches before battles. Personally, I don&#146;t believe that would be sufficient cause for such an event. It&#146;s apparent that the author doesn&#146;t like Patton. Maybe I don&#146;t either, but he was the right man for the job he had in the war. I don&#146;t think combat generals should be required to be likable. Patton&#146;s use of tanks in the lightning fast attacks reminiscent of German blitzkrieg was a necessary tactic and only a few American generals realized that need. I thought that a few of the other generals looked worse than Patton in this listing and less competent. Even in this book, Patton is recognized as a tactical genius.	2002-11-10
US	51910677	R1YT8VXEOHUKV2	0393020088	561667173	The Battle of Britain: The Myth and the Reality	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Short and to the point: well done.	This book is not a dramatic retelling of the battle. It is concerned with what went on behind the scenes. It discusses the reasoning of the German commanders concerning an invasion of England and their plans behind the air attack. It's pretty enlightening to see how each side was pretty mistaken about what the other side thought or would do. There are quite a bit of authorities quoted for the author's premises. The newest thing to me was the fact that not all Brits pulled together about resisting the German aggression. The documentation about that reads about like the way people do now in both Britain and the U.S. This is an inside look at the entire campaign of the Battle of Britain and the events leading up to it. There are some things that were new to me and I think would be new to most readers. It's a good writing job and a good research job.	2002-08-07
US	51910677	RBUU5BXJO1UU7	0385495404	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A definitive book about one of the great men of all time.	Franklin's many and varied accomplishments are all told here in conversational language. The book moves ahead in a most interesting manner. There are no humdrum, boring passages here. It tells of Franklin's itch to go to sea as a boy and his dissatisfaction with his apprenticeship as a printer in his hometown of Boston. To be more independent, he left for Philadelphia at an early age and became one of the premier printers of that city.  His scientific accomplishments and his well known career as a patriot, and statesman are told in a way that keeps one interested in reading more. <br />I think that few men have reached Franklin's level of varied accomplishments. He was the first person to begin understanding and mapping the Gulf Stream, one of the most successful pioneers in understanding the nature of electricity, the inventor of the lightning rod and many other such achievements. His political and civic endeavors started with forming the first Fire Dept., establishing forts, starting cultural clubs and his well known involvement with the forming of the United States as an independent country. His career as a statesman was such that, on his passing, he was severely mourned by two continents. Along with all this, Franklin's fine tuned wit and sense of humor are well shown. <br />This is a thoroughly researched and well written book. It seems to me a tour de force as a biography of one of the most interesting men of all time.	2002-06-26
US	51910677	R2OYVDEBTJYX1	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Should be required reading for American history buffs	This is a compendium of the quirks, foibles, and faults of seven of the &quot; Founding Fathers&quot;. Developing largely after the War of Independence, these character flaws caused a number of rifts among the people who referred to themselves as the &quot;Band of Brothers&quot;. Emphasis is placed on the role of George Washington in almost single handedly keeping things together through his immense popularity and talents. A great emphasis is placed on the feud between John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, showing how Jefferson was the first president to have more allegiance to a political party than to statesmanship. The extremely dirty presidential campaign between Jefferson and Adams is given a lot of coverage.<br />Much is said about the issue of slavery and how it was largely kept under the surface in order to have cohesion between the northern and southern states. From the start, slavery was a specter, threatening to tear the revolution and then the fledgling country apart. So many things were against the experiment in a new kind of government that it seems a miracle that it could have developed, much less lasted.  This book really brings out the tenuous nature of the revolution and the early republic. A number of worldwide events had to happen for the new country to be born and more so for it to succeed.  Not less important were the rifts from within and the political ambitions of the country's most prominent citizens.<br />The books main thesis is the politics and rifts among its seven historical characters. It does, however, show to some extent how the &quot;Founding Brothers&quot;, in spite of their human faults, kept the country on its feet after the revolution - barely.	2002-05-18
US	51910677	RRBHYLGVZT9TL	0743212339	796453023	A Line in the Sand: The Alamo in Blood and Memory	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A good overall study of the Alamo	This book is a rather complete overview of all or most of the legends and myths about the Alamo, as well as a pretty good coverage of the things that are accepted as historical facts. It also goes into the legends, and historical records about the major characters involved in the battle and the politics of the time. It shows the Mexican side of things as well as the Texan side. There is an in-depth discussion of the impact of the Alamo on Texas and the United States, also Mexico. There is a lot about the specific way the most famous Alamo defenders died, especially &quot;Davy&quot; Crockett. It is said that Crockett was not killed in the battle, but surrendered and was executed by Santa Anna. It discusses the issues that came up about preserving the Alamo and the fights made by two ladies in the effort to preserve it. There was also a political fight between the two ladies for control of the destiny of the buildings. That was called the &quot;Second Battle of the Alamo&quot;.  The book discusses the movies about the subject and goes into depth about John Wayne's efforts in making the movie, &quot;The Alamo&quot;, the work, politics, etc. involved and the reception of the movie. &quot;Line in the Sand&quot; then discusses the modern idea of scorn about the Alamo and the resentment of some people who consider it a shrine to imperial land grabbing and racial prejudice. It finishes with a discussion of the Alamos effect on Presidents and other politicians. This is a pretty unbiased look at all sides of the atmosphere leading to the battle, the battle itself and a lot of the effects since the battle. It seems to cover all sides of every issue concerning the Alamo.	2002-05-11
US	51910677	RRGN7T3WQQAD6	1575664267	315122837	Dinosaur Cat (A "Big Mike" Mystery)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Best Book Of This Series	I consider this to be the most interesting and best written of this series of books. It's an action, mover and it has about the right amount of focus on the cat &quot;detective&quot;. The cat is really not involved in the solving of the mystery or anything of the sort, but he is a most &quot;fetching&quot; character and all the references to him and insight into cat nature are the best parts of the book. I think the human characters are a bit stilted but are passable. The plot is good, about murders connected to a dinosaur fossil and the controversy over who should have control of the fossil. A well done mystery.	2002-05-04
US	51910677	R2Q87UP86JGZTX	0812516826	583593580	Catnap: A Midnight Louie Mystery (Midnight Louie Mysteries)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Fine Mystery Set In An Unusual Place	Midnight Louie does his usual great job of \\"solving\\" this murder mystery set in a Bookseller's Convention. Actually, he finds the body and of course he is responsible for his human, Temple Barr learning who did the dastardly deed and proving it. Miss Barr gets into a lot of trouble along the way and, of course, Midnight Louie \\"rescues\\" her from it. Midnight Louie is the ultimate in purrivate eyes with his tough, hardboiled outlook, just like the human detectives.	2002-05-04
US	51910677	R2H86VAEN5DUAV	0061059889	722337046	Cat To The Dogs: A Joe Grey Mystery	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An outstanding example of the best cat detective series	Joe Grey and his \\"girl friend\\" Dulcie are after the ghost of Hellhag Hill, who has already done several murders. Joe's human, Clyde is doing all the interfering he can, and the two feline eyes meet the Kit, who will be a character in future stories. Kit is another lovable feline character who adds a lot to this story and later ones. Joe and Dulcie are at their best in this well plotted whodunit. They actually take an active part in the detection and murder solving, unlike most of the other fictional Cat PI's, who are somewhat incidental to the real happenings. These cats are special! They are a little bit of a different breed and are able to understand, speak and read human language. They are highly intelligent, and highly capable of functioning in a human world. How they manipulate things and give clues to the human police is most interesting. This book is required reading for those who like cats and mysteries.	2002-05-04
US	51910677	R25RKBVJOZZBNR	0380726912	87624192	Conspiracy of Silence	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More Fuel For the UFO Controversy	This book does nothing to settle any question about UFO's. It does make a good case for a government and  Air Force, cover up of information about UFO investigations. It doesn't prove what the reason for a cover up is. It states opinions about these things but is inconclusive. <br />The author is a dedicated UFO investigator. As such, he is involved in the controversy among &quot;Members of the UFO Community&quot; or &quot;Ufologists&quot;. That controversy is the main thing that keeps the UFO thesis in the public eye. Oddly, the Ufologists all agree on a final theme: &quot;UFO's are extraterrestrial space ships and the government doesn't want us to know that&quot;. The arguments are about which method should be used to reach that conclusion. There is another side to the argument too. There are UFO &quot;Debunkers&quot; who say that all UFO's are the figments of feeble minds. So, there are debates among Ufologists and debates between Ufologists and Debunkers. The flap goes on and on, with no end in sight and no end possible unless these people should quit their bickering and try to be objective about their subject.  I think that if the UFO question could be settled conclusively, all these people would be greatly disappointed that their turmoil could no longer be carried on.<br />This book mostly states a case for the government cover up as its title claims. It is true to that theme. It does jump right into both the above arguments, albeit obliquely. It does nothing to really settle any question. It's mostly just more grist for the mill. The author has made a good job of covering the idea that the Air Force has been underhanded about information concerning this subject.  He does state his cases more than once though. He will make points that he has already thoroughly covered a few or many pages earlier. The book is more repetitive than most I have read. Overall the book is pretty readable. In my opinion, it has the best coverage of the Roswell incident of any treatise I've seen. For people who like to keep up with the UFO controversy, this is probably a must.	2002-05-04
US	51910677	RV81EF3N1A9WD	1575661888	265169491	Stable Cat (A "Big Mike" Mystery)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A nice mystery for the horsey set	Big Mike is on the prowl again! He is the ultimate purrivate eye, with his macho-ism and his keen observation of the human goings on around him. In these books, the cat &quot;detective&quot; is really a bystander, but his contribution is great nonetheless. His human, Penelope Warren really does the detecting. She wouldn't be able to do it without the help and protection of Big Mike. These books are fast moving and have a lot of unusual interchange among the human characters. This is a worthy addition to the cat detective genre.	2002-05-04
US	51910677	R3UO7208DHUNMF	0812534417	125537093	Cat on a Blue Monday: A Midnight Louie Mystery (Midnight Louie Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Classic Midnight Louie, the best!	Midnight Louie is at his best and most lovable in this romp through a murder at a cat show. How he is able to keep his excitable \\"Little Doll\\" under control and guide her to solving the mystery and other problems is quite engrossing. As always, Louie is the strong character and quite the inimitable tough private cat eye. A well plotted and well written book. Any cat lover and many a non-catlover mystery fan should love this book.	2002-04-18
US	51910677	R4O7AEVKKFOWO	1575666235	732608690	Movie Cat: A Big Mike Mystery (Big Mike Mysteries)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	One of the good whodunit series' with a cat character.	This is about the same as the other books in this series, which is a pretty good series. The movie setting gives in more glamor and appeal for some people. As usual, Big Mike is a really interesting and well done character, with a much lesser cast of supporting humans. It's an overall well done book.	2002-04-18
US	51910677	RZ3HQBJE2PHRU	0764309803	45258884	The Illustrated Guide to Antique Writing Instruments (Schiffer Book for Collectors (Paperback))	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A valuable guide to carry with you.	This is a valuable and handy pocket (briefcase, etc.) guide to take on a pen expedition. It's a bit big for anything but a large overcoat pocket but is handy when carried in a case. It is mostly a guide to the identification of some of the pens to be found at pen shows and elsewhere. There are brief histories of 18 fountain pen manufacturers but they are short to rudimentary. There is a short but to the point and valuable guide to how to grade a pen.<br />The rest of the book is devoted to colored photos of various fountain pens. The pictures are very good and the selection of pens shown is very good. The values shown are, like all prices shown in such books, progressively out of date. They are good though to give a relative value for pens.<br />This is an excellent book for its purpose - to help identify, grade and price used fountain pens. It does its specified purpose well. It's not meant to be an encyclopedia. Such a book would have to be a many volumn set.	2002-04-18
US	51910677	RQNAPC4CWZKW7	1575663090	574233838	Baseball Cat (A "Big Mike" Mystery)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A good mystery-adventure book with a loveable cat hero.	This is a good whodunit book and the main cat character, Big Mike is a hoot. The human female character is less well done than the cat. She is a bit one dimensional. The plot is pretty good and the descriptions are good. It doesn't lag in the action and is an all around good writing job.	2002-04-18
US	51910677	R25G1RSOBYLCCO	1574321102	862278771	Fountain Pens: Past & Present, Identification & Value Guide	Books	5	46	49	N	N	An excellent all around book for any pen collector.	This great book covers all the bases. It starts with a history of fountain pen development. This section is fairly brief but is thorough for its length. It gives a lot of interesting and necessary knowledge of how pens changed over the years. The book also covers how to collect, where to find them, storage and display, repairs, selecting a pen for use, inks, paper, and how to value pens. These sections are necessarily not encyclopedic but they do give all a person needs to get a good start with each of those subjects.<br />Then there is a nice, in depth discussion of the Major Manufacturers &amp; Their Classics. This section is an excellent article about 7 of the most well known pen makers and their most successful or notable developments and pen models. It's also another look at the history of fountain pens. Of course, some people would say there should be other makers included, but I don't think anyone would say that these 7 don't belong here.<br />The rest and biggest part of the book is devoted to pictures of specific pens and a value for them. Most of the pictures are colored. The section is broken down into:<br />Early Fountain Pens<br />The Golden Age<br />The Modern Age<br />Contemporary Fountain Pens<br />The pictures are EXCELLENT! There are some representative reproductions of old fountain pen ads that give a good feel of the older pen era and also are valuable in identifying some pen models. These ad pictures are sprinkled through the book but are not overdone.<br />The pen prices, of course, go out of date fast but they do give an idea of the relative value of the pens. The prices are also given in retail, not street prices. This is a minor fault that is just about unavoidable in a book of this type. Prices would have to be issued at close intervals to remain current and street prices are nearly impossible to keep up with.<br />In my opinion, this is a classic book and the best I've seen about fountain pens. I don't see a single major fault. The quality of binding and printing is excellent also. While not a coffee table book as such and much more valuable, it could double for that if opened to the fine color pictures.inding and printing is excellent also. While not a coffee table book as such and much more valuable, it could double for that if opened to the fine color pictures.	2002-04-18
US	51910677	R2UFJB9TVX96DM	0061059897	373834898	Cat Spitting Mad: A Joe Grey Mystery (Joe Grey Mystery Series)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Maybe the best Joe Grey book yet.	I think this is certainly one of the best Joe Grey books, if not THE best. Joe and Dulcie are joined by their new sidekick called &quot;The Kit&quot;, a tortoiseshell kitten who has an insatiable craving for adventure and danger. There has been a murder of two women on a bridal path and the third rider, the cats' friend Dillon has disappeared, maybe murdered too or kidnapped. Joe's greatly admired friend, Max Harper, the Molina Point chief of police is the one and only suspect in the murders. Joe is spitting mad that people will believe his friend Max could do such a thing. Naturally, Joe &quot;knows&quot; that Max is innocent. The Kit has witnessed the end of the murders and been scared witless by all the violence but she was too scared to know what she saw or to recognise anyone. The three cats run afoul of Joe and Dulcie's old nemesis, Lee Wark who knows their secrets about understanding human language and having high intelligence. He would absolutely love to put a permanent damper on their crime solving shenanigans. He thrives on killing cats anyway.  Kate Osborne, who can change to a cat and back to a human is back on the scene and terrified because three convicts have escaped, including Lee Wark who knows her secret also. She seems to have a &quot;thing&quot; for Joe's human housemate, Clyde Damen while Clyde's old girl friend, Charlie seems to be sweet on Max Harper now.<br />How Joe Grey, Dulcie and Kit thread their way through this maze of tangles, car chases, and a haunted house that's home to a cougar makes a fine story. It's also amazing that three small cats could get through all the perils without losing one or more lives. Ms. Murphy only gets better! She adds more polish and finesse to the stories every time. I'm anxious to read &quot;Cat Laughing Last&quot;	2001-11-06
US	51910677	RFC35RKAFM6EC	0061056022	587173665	Cat Raise the Dead: A Joe Grey Mystery (Joe Grey Mystery Series)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	More about loveable Joe Grey and Dulcie	This time, the two talking cat detectives come to the rescue of some old people at a home and also catch a &quot;cat burglar&quot;. When a few of the people at the home are suspicious and scared, Dulcie starts investigating and, as always, manages to get Joe Grey involved too. How they are everywhere to find out what goes on and how they can do surveilance and eavesdropping so much easier than a human are quite entertaining. Always, they keep the police captain jumping with their anonymous phone tips and keep him worried because he suspects the two cats are involved in the crime solving. He won't allow himself to believe such things and that keeps him worried. This is a great job of cat sleuthing and is an interesting book.	2001-07-23
US	51910677	R3O3ARH07COATR	0061056014	949821974	Cat Under Fire: A Joe Grey Mystery (Joe Grey Mystery Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another murder solved by Joe and Dulcie	When a prominent artist is burned to death in her own studio, the two cat detectives can't believe it to be an accident. They set out to find out exactly what happened and like always they are into everything and keeping their house mates worried about them and Captain Harper off balance because he thinks the cats are involved in his anonymous tips. He doesn't want to admit, even to himself, that he believes simple little cats could do these unusual things. Joe and Dulcie are always kitty on the spot when something happens and to find clues to crimes. This is a good, interesting book. The author deserves credit for coming up with such an unusual series of stories.	2001-07-23
US	51910677	R95H45CA0EH6Q	0376030216	697619294	Azaleas, Rhododendrons and Camellias	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A very worthwhile starter book for azaleas and camellias.	Thanks to this book, I have been able to grow many azaleas and some camellias, and they grow better than most others here. This book showed me the correct way to prune azaleas and when to do it. Because of this method, my azaleas filled out to large mounds that look like big drifts of color when they bloom. I had never grown azaleas or camellias before reading this book. I highly recommend it as a starter book for this subject. As mentioned in an earlier review, coffee grounds are an excellent fertilizer and a good addition to a compost bin.	2001-07-19
US	51910677	R22FEFWQ9EG189	0897214293	79778726	Ortho's All About Pruning (Ortho's All About Gardening)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The easy way to being an expert pruner!	This book explains pruning in easy to understand illustrations and pictures. It shows how to prune nearly anything and does it in a way that is easy to understand and easy to remember. Anyone can correctly prune their shrubs, vines, and trees by following this book. A good index makes it easy to find a specific plant that needs pruning.	2001-07-16
US	51910677	RI3K5YYLHQP3S	0061056006	128270526	Cat on the Edge: A Joe Grey Mystery (Joe Grey Mystery Series)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A most unique &quot;Whodunit&quot;	This book is pretty well written, although the author has improved her technique in later books of the series. This is the first book of the &quot;Joe Grey&quot; series. The two main characters are cats who have learned to understand and speak the English language. The cat characters are really well done, showing a good understanding of cat nature by the author. The human characters that the cats play off of are not quite so vivid, but reasonably believable. The irritating tendency to switch back and forth between different characters in each chapter is a pretty minor flaw and may be a plus to some readers. It does tend to highten the suspense. This is a &quot;Fantasy Whodunit&quot; that is different from any others I've read. I think it's a valuable addition to the &quot;Whodunit&quot; genre and is certainly of great interest to cat lovers. The books that follow, in this series, get better and better.	2001-07-15
US	51910677	R2DLLUM7VOY0V1	0897214285	655768646	Ortho's All About Roses (Ortho's All About Gardening)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	One of the best introductory rose books	Although this is primarily a beginner's book, it is also a useful book for more experienced rose growers, in that it's a good review of general growing techniques. It is well illustrated with pictures of how to plant, prune, and care for roses, as well as having many color photographs of rose varieties. A rose grower must always keep in mind the area where he lives and especially the climate. Many roses grow well in some climates or some areas and not in others. Keeping that in mind, the list and photos of rose varieties are highly useful. Most of the &quot;How To&quot; information applies to all areas. This book is a great asset when combined with talking to local people and noticing roses that grow well in one's own area.	2001-07-15
US	51910677	R3SVIKZ0D803GR	0376036583	289808162	Roses	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Almost a required book for &quot;budding&quot; rose growers	Along with Ortho's &quot;All About Roses&quot;, and HP Books' Roses, How To Select, Grow and Enjoy&quot;, this is the backbone of the easy way to learn about roses. As an introduction to some or the &quot;mysteries&quot; about growing roses, this book and the other two mentioned have no equals. The illustrations are great and there are a lot of color photos of rose varieties, making a good picture book as well as a good &quot;How To&quot; book. I think everyone who has an interest in roses will enjoy this book and also the other two mentioned.	2001-07-15
US	51910677	R1TW2ZDDJGA8LR	0061059471	491526740	Cat in the Dark: A Joe Grey Mystery (Joe Grey Mystery Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A fine &quot;Fantasy Whodunit&quot;	This is the fourth book in the &quot;Joe Grey&quot; series. I think the author has refined her technique a lot since the first book, &quot;Cat On the Edge&quot;. I think she has improved her stories to the point where they are truly ready to be included among the best of Fantasy or Whodunit books. The main theme is about two cats who have become able to understand and speak English. The cats pull off all kinds of coups in solving crimes. Coups that would be impossible for humans. The cats are most loveable and likeable. The cat characters are the most vivid, but the human characters that the cats &quot;own&quot; or interact with are now also quite likeable. The plots are well done and there is quite a bit of suspense.	2001-07-15
US	51910677	R29ZKN54YCYH2K	0891457623	108203443	Collectible Costume Jewelry: Identification and Values	Books	4	24	25	N	N	A good book for beginners.	This book is mostly a picture book and the pictures are excellent. It has a Designer/Manufacturer chart toward the front of the book. This is a good help for beginners. There are some cautions about copies of signed jewelry, some tips about cleaning/storing a collection, a glossary, and drawings of some marks and signatures. All in all it's a nice book for beginners, it's strongest point being the many fine color illustrations. Another interesting feature is the section showing old jewelry advertisements.	2001-07-10
US	51910677	R38P1P93L6PPV9	0671554506	533514597	All My Patients Are under the Bed	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A New York City veterinarian who made house calls	There are a lot of extremely interesting stories about the vet's experiences, the pets he treated, and the people he interacted with. Although he specialized in cats, he also treated &quot;any animal that was suffering&quot;. Some of the other animals were a pigeon, marmosets, honeybears, and ocelots. His clients were common people, millionaires, and celebrities, of which he includes some interesting insights. There are enough interesting stories in this book to keep anyone reading for some time whether they like cats or not. An excerpt from James and Pamela Mason's 1949 book, &quot;The Cats In Our Lives&quot; is excellent. It's their opinion of why people usually either love or detest cats.	2001-07-09
US	51910677	R2Z0ERXVMDXXCY	1851491503	6470928	Old Roses and English Roses	Books	5	18	19	N	N	David Austin is the foremost authority on English Roses.	This is a good introduction to old roses and their development, but a better one about &quot;English Roses&quot;. &quot;English Roses&quot; are a relatively new type of roses, pioneered by David Austin, starting about 1970, with his first popular variety, &quot;Constance Spry&quot;. &quot;English Roses&quot; are shrub roses that have the look of old roses. They are very carefree roses and bloom profusely and often, most with a nice fragrance. No one is more qualified to talk about &quot;English Roses&quot; than David Austin since he &quot;invented&quot; them. He tells how to use them to the best advantage and also tells strong points and weaknesses of the numerous varieties. This is the man to listen to about growing English roses. The book also has a good introduction to the correct methods of rose cultivation. There are a lot of very nice pictures.	2001-07-05
US	51910677	R8F9D3H510BXR	0836280342	3878396	Amazing but True Cat Tales	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Many Stories About Miraculous Cats	This book is full of stories to delight the heart of any ailurophiliac (cat lover). They are interesting, and inspiring and above all, they show the character of cats as only a cat lover can appreciate them. Examples from the book are:<br />A 1400 mile, 4 year journey--48 days without food or water--A cat who beat up a pit bull--The cat that flew--The cat that repeatedly climbed the Alps--The cat who solved the problem of building the Grand Coulee dam--The cat that was tried for assault--The day the Egyptian army was defeated by cats--The cat who won a war medal--The cat mayor of a New Mexico town and a lot more.<br />This is a fine read for cat lovers and really shows the traits that endear cats to people.	2001-07-01
US	51910677	R24KTE8RQ0J647	0517559145	603171787	Kovels' New Dictionary of Marks: Pottery and Porcelain, 1850 to the Present	Books	4	63	68	N	N	A worthy extension of the first Kovels pottery book.	The authors of this book have been writing it for almost 50 years. It is not a replacement for their &quot;Kovels' Dictionary of Marks: Pottery and Porcelain&quot;, which was first published in 1953 and is still in print. This book is an addition to the first book, having about 10% of the marks shown in the first book because of new information or for completeness. The other marks are newer and not shown in the old book. There are two sections of marks, the first section is marks that look like objects and the second is alphabetical by initials and words. There is also a section called: &quot;Some Additional Information&quot;. It has a glossary of terms, dating systems, foreign words commonly used in the marks, fakes and forgeries, a list of &quot;Selected Reading&quot;, and an index. This book alone is not enough for accomplished collectors, but is excellent for beginners and used in combination with the first book (as the authors apparently intended) will cover a large percentage of the &quot;Pottery and Porcelain&quot; marks.	2001-06-20
US	51910677	R2BFRA0EY5SZRV	0345368932	982982501	All the Weyrs of Pern (Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More Dragonriders	This book is well written in the same style as other Dragonrider books. It's an interesting story as a continuation of its predecessor, &quot;The Dragonriders of Pern&quot;. It's especially worth reading for those who are enthralled with the Pern saga and Anne McCaffrey, who is, undoubtedly, one of the finest fantasy writers of all time.	2001-06-11
US	51910677	RZC1TT484NEXM	1564584984	880107173	Gemstones (Eyewitness Handbooks)	Books	5	34	35	N	N	A super introduction to a fascinating subject.	I have been interested in amateur gemstones since 1962 and this is the best introductory book I've ever seen about the subject. It's full of outstanding pictures that illustrate just about everything most beginners might want to know. It starts with an excellent and concise section on general gem lore, gem properties, and gem handling. Then it has the best color key to gems that I've seen. This key makes it easy to find the information about a given gemstone without using the index. If one prefers, there is a good index too. After the Color Key, there are pages about specific stones with a description, where they are found and remarks. All standard gem properties are shown, with excellent pictures to illustrate the color, crystal shape, cleavage, uses, etc. All in all, this is the introduction to gemstones to judge others by. It's also useful for more advanced &quot;rockhounds&quot; as a reference and field guide. The binding is quite durable and should stand up to a lot of travel. I wish this book had been available 40 years ago.	2001-06-11
US	51910677	R2OX3H27QP1F9R	0786708107	476273474	Gateway to Atlantis: The Search for the Source of a Lost Civilization	Books	5	6	8	N	N	At last, a &quot;No Nonsense&quot; book about Atlantis.	There's no doubt to me that this is THE book about the many theories and explorations concerning Atlantis. If Atlantis did exist, the author's conclusion about its location sounds more reasonable than the other theories. If Atlantis did not exist, this book is more than worthwhile as a look into ancient history, a study about ancient trade routes, the fascinating premise that ancient Europe and Africa knew about the American continents, and the most complete coverage of the main Atlantis theories of any book I've seen. This book is extremely well researched and written. It should be part of the library of anyone interested in ancient history as well as anyone interested in Atlantis. It's a Landmark book on its subject.	2001-06-11
US	51910677	R3GZC1FNIP3GU4	0345368991	85405238	The Chronicles of Pern: First Fall	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Pern background for the dedicated Pern fan.	No one should start reading the Pern stories with this book. It is a &quot;foundation laying&quot; book that was written after the Pern trilogy, &quot;The Dragonriders of Pern&quot;. It's a collection of stories to explain more of the history of pern. I think Anne McCaffrey did about as well as possible with this premise, but this book is really just for readers who are dedicated to the Pern series. As such, it's not bad. The original trilogy is vastly more interesting.	2001-06-11
US	51910677	R1HMD9PZMH4467	0345368959	378114589	The Dolphins of Pern (Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An unusual Pern story.	Pern through the eyes of dolphins. This is a charming and worthy addition to the Pern library. It has all of Anne McCaffrey's usual great style and story telling ability in it. It isn't quite on the same level with &quot;The Dragonriders of Pern&quot;, but it's hard to equal a previous classic by writing on the same subject. All in all, this book is a satisfying read.	2001-06-11
US	51910677	R2RVLWSL0M6ZRA	0375502912	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend	Books	5	4	6	N	N	You Gotta Have Heart	The author did an unbelievable amount of research to write this book. Check the list at the end of the book. <br />How the owner, trainer, horse and jockey all came together is an absorbing story, and has a great deal of general history too.  The author is a master of describing a horse race. Some of her race descriptions are almost like seeing the race. This book is a masterpiece of writing as it shows the dedication and drive of all the people involved and especially the heart and gameness of Seabiscuit. There is a good insight into the life of jockeys as well as their mounts. No horse lover should miss this book. I stayed up late to finish it in one read.	2001-05-28
US	51910677	R10BFC5JXQB9F5	0060931590	854247618	Go For the Goal: A Champion's Guide To Winning In Soccer And Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	How to be successful in anything, not just soccer.	Ms. Hamm has written a lucid, easy reading book that tells what it takes to become the best you can be at soccer.  Not only will the attitudes, and work ethic described in this book benefit prospective soccer players, her attitudes and outlook should help anyone to be their best in whatever they want to do.  I would have liked more insight into the personalities of the National Soccer Team players but the ones that are included are great.  Her dedication and team spirit certainly explain why Ms. Hamm is the Queen Of Champions.  This book is not just for little girls or women.  The same ideas should work for the opposite sex just as well.  The B.L. (bottom line) is this book is good reading.  She did a good job of storytelling.  My respect for this superstar went up even higher after reading the book.	2000-10-15
US	51910677	R1F72H1N3S1KHL	0446603457	461171753	Rider at the Gate (Nighthorse, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Grabs hold and doesn't let go.	This is a combination science fiction, fantasy, and semi-horror story and a great story it is.  The first thing I look for in a fiction book is a strong story and C.J. Cherryh is a first class story teller.  The book  almost made me feel as though I were part of the story. The characters are  all well developed and mostly interesting and the interplay between humans  and night horses is charming and also well done.  There is a high level of  suspense here and the book just really plays on the emotions.	2000-06-20
US	51910677	RWVOMGW3FDPWX	0345340248	11248610	The Dragonriders of Pern: Dragonflight  Dragonquest  The White Dragon (Pern: The Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	One of the all-time classic fantasy series'.	This trilogy is so enthralling and interesting that it's hard to put it down before finishing all three books.  It's too bad that sleep is necessary and interferes with the reading.  The charming affinity between  the people and dragons and their telepathic connections was a new thing  when these were written.  The &quot;Dragonriders&quot; was actually  &quot;plowing new ground all the way&quot; and was unique unto itself at  the time.  It has a lot of action and is well developed as a story and the  characters are well done.  I believe that it's up there with the best of  the best in fantasy writing.	2000-06-20
US	51910677	R1MDOPD1Q6BWJQ	0881030856	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I believe this is the best fantasy animal book.	The characterizations and story are charming all the way and it's even believable that such things could happen at the time you are reading it.  A basic, good story and applied to the rabbit cast in expert fashion.   Although the rabbits more or less act like humans, they are still  recognizable as rabbits and are very interesting because of it. A basic  good and evil story, with good triumphing.	2000-06-20
US	51910677	R2SQ458JV6VFGP	0446604240	635074349	Cloud's Rider	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A fitting continuance to &quot;Rider At the Gate&quot;	This book and it's predecessor, &quot;Rider At the Gate&quot; are really like one novel.  There has been criticism of the long descriptive parts.  In my opinion that is one thing that makes these books outstanding.   Because of the long and detailed descriptions, they make readers feel like  they are involved in the story and like they know just what the area and  characters are like.  It makes for a feeling of personal involvement in the  story.  In my opinion, there are very few fantasy books that can top these  two.	2000-06-20
US	51910677	R3M68SC3J5TKSM	0890964815	277528711	Lighthouses of Texas	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The number one book on its subject.	This is a book with all the answers to anything a person may want to know about Texas lighthouses, including their construction, history, and all of the data about them.  It's really complete and exhaustive but not at all  dull to people who like lighthouses.  I think all Texas lighthouse lovers  should have this book.	2000-06-20
US	51910677	R2XF1M89JDOC7G	0887408958	572283877	Rainbow of Rhinestone Jewelry: With Price Guide and Repairing Suggestions (A Schiffer Book for Collectors)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Probably the best beginners book about Rhinestones.	This is a beautiful book with fabulous pictures. It has a wealth of good jewelry items illustrated that actually apply to things a person who is not wealthy might have.  They have a very interesting and easy to understand  section on how to clean Rhinestone jewelry, how to make some repairs, and  how to store and display it.  All in all this is a very complete, useful,  interesting and beautiful book about Rhinestone jewelry.	2000-06-19
US	51910677	R6I01G1VJ405D	0873417038	416038959	The Ultimate Rubber Stamping Technique Book	Books	5	28	28	N	N	This book is a must for anyone interested in stamping.	Not only is this book a must for beginners, but also for anyone else with any interest in rubber stamping.  It has so many ideas and projects that it seems like anyone could find something they are interested in trying but  haven't.  For the beginner, it has very complete but very easy to  understand directions for becoming a complete rubber stamper.  I don't  think a &quot;How To&quot; book could accomplish any more than this one  does.	2000-06-19
US	51910677	R3F0GFA0TUTN9W	0891454977	99136610	005: The Collector's Encyclopedia of Occupied Japan Collectibles: 5th Series	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Many pictures, regrettably not so much information.	This is agueably one of the best books in the collectors series.  It does a very good job without being overly large and heavy.  I would like to see more information on each item but agree with the author's decision to put  in a lot of pictures in preference to a lot of words.  Information can be  found elsewhere and these pictures are great and will put the reader on the  right track.	2000-06-16
US	51910677	R1SW76DXTQV132	1574321129	737669840	Collector's Guide To Buying, Selling, And Trading On The Internet	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Clear and concise, with an easy, friendly style. The best!	This book has everything anyone needs to make a success of bidding and selling on the internet.  It's written so well that it's understandable to novices and useful to experts.  Above all, it's interesting to both.  Every  internet trader should use this book.  It's the best how-to book I've seen.	1999-06-04
US	51910677	RMWX1ZKM27I2R	0762701838	908772072	Gulf Coast Lighthouses (Lighthouse Series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A good book about &quot;still existing&quot; Gulf Coast Lighthouses.	There aren't that many books about Gulf Coast Lighthouses, especially the Western Gulf.  This book covers all the lights that are still standing, gives a picture and directions to each one, as well as a short history. It  also has some good history in the introductions to each section, and  general maps.  It isn't an encyclopedia, but a very nice coverage of its  subject.  I think it belongs in the library of anyone interested in Gulf  Coast Lighthouses.	1999-02-20
