US	51914749	R2E2EJNH2NR724	0330490796	388902592	The Devil's Handshake	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fascinating and entertaining read!	This is an excellent, exciting and well-crafted story, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. It details an attempt by the Allies to assassinate Hitler in his residence in the Obersalzberg. The book begins with the difficulties in selecting an appropriate assassin, and then getting him into the proper shape, and getting properly informed, before parachute-dropping him behind enemy lines. There he makes the aquaintance of Ilse, who becomes at first an unwilling accomplice, and a lover. There is some excellent attention to detail, and I particularly liked Beck's fleeting but significant polite gesture on the train! The idea of infiltrating an Allied officer into Hitler's inner circle, indeed, posing as a wounded German officer, is rather intriguing. The ending of the book has already been decided by history, but I found that it's handling was perhaps a little too \\"soft\\", for want of a better word. I would have liked it developed a little more. Also, the novel takes us to some very scenic places: London, the African desert, and southern Bavaria. I found the descriptions of these places a little wanting. Otherwise, I have little to criticise in this novel, except perhaps Davies' choice of the names: Cricklemarsh, Purefoy, Nye, and Lusty! And then Jger (read \\"Hunter\\") for one of the German characters. One wonders where he came up with them! But that's peanuts, all things considered!	2005-10-02
US	51914749	R1UK6ZE0KD8X2B	0333908449	793465748	Collaborator	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fascinating and excellent read!	This is a fascinating novel. It is extremely well written, the characters are well developed, and the complicated relationships between them even better so. It is a long book, but justifiably so. There is a lot to tell, and some of it, like a real occupation (especially its particularly gruesome side) has to be built up slowly. It made me think of how it must have been during the German occupation of the Channel Islands during World War II. Except in this novel, the entire United Kingdom has been occupied by the Germans during World War II. It is a fascinating and very well-developed story, which begins with the arrival home of Nick Penny, who has been in a German prisoner-of-war camp. Penny returns home, to find his father killed and his mother savagely handicapped by the occupiers. Since Penny has fluent German, he is quickly put to work for the occupiers, much to the horror of his family and friends. Davies does a brilliant job of describing an utterly difficult situation. How far are you willing to go to survive in an occupation? How grey is the ground between patriotism and becoming a traitor. Davies develops several of these themes very well in his story, from the nosey neighbour who \\"drops in\\" periodically for whatever fabricated reason, using her time in their house to do a quick reconnaissance to report back to the local GESTAPO; to a member of his own family, who will sacrifice her own pride by performing sexual favours for a known collaborator to make her own family's life easier. There are too many themes to comment on here, but each one is dealt with perfectly, and is creatively woven into the story. I also particularly liked that Davies attempted to show a balanced view of the occupying power, and did not see fit to cast every German in his story as a rabid Nazi. I also cannot help but wonder if this story is a reflection on events that must be happening right now during the occupation of Iraq. Can you imagine, an Iraqi who could speak English and is made to work for the occupying Coalition. Does he face the same fury from his old friends? Well, I guess that that is subject matter for novels to come!	2005-10-02
US	51914749	R32O6RQWMRTWD8	0340835419	233273026	Web of Deceit	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Something a little dissapointing from Meade	The story is set starting two years after a mysterious and savage attack on the family of attorney Jennifer March, in which her mother was killed, her brother incapacitated, and her father dissapeared. Two years after the attack, her father's body is discovered in a glacier in the Alps. The story centers around March attempting to discover the reasons behind her father's death, and indeed, behind the savage attack on her family. The story contains all the elements of a good thriller: intrigue, deception, historical roots; and the plot plays out in some very topical locations in the United States and central Europe. There is a healthy dose of the New York Police Department and CIA, and some action packed sequences, most notably, in and out of the narrow railroad tunnels that run through the Swiss Alps. It is a good thriller, and is certainly an enjoyable way to spend a few hours. However, I have been spoilt by Glenn Meade's previous four novels, Brandenburg, Snow Wolf, The Sands of Sakkara, and Resurrection Day. In contrast to those four novels, Web of Deceit fell way short of the mark. I was rather dissapointed, in fact. The characters are badly developed. They are shallow and uninteresting, and you cannot really feel anything for them. The novel requires considerable suspension of reality at times. A serving officer of the NYPD certainly does not have the authority to spontaneously run off, effectively chasing his girlfriend on international adventures, without approval of his superiors, which he certainly would not have got. He would have been better worked into the plot as a CIA agent. Something that Meade has considerable experience writing about. The novel goes to some fascinating and very scenic parts of the world, but none of these places were particularly well described. I have visited all of the locations mentioned in the book, and each time, I found myself thinking, \\"Wait a minutes, what about...\\". The story itself is interesting to begin with, but the deception and intrigue, so well handled in Meade's previous work, was so convoluted, it became a commedy after a while. In the end, I found the plot flat and implausible, and I could no longer be surprised at whatever strange twist came next. Some subtlety would have been good. I had the distinct impression that Meade simply didn't know what to do with the story after a while. Or perhaps, he was simply in a rush to finish it. Anyway, one bad hit out of five total is still pretty good odds, and I look forward to his next novel.	2005-10-02
US	51914749	R21IT1KR2PTMB2	0312965257	796214569	Brandenburg: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A damn good read!	This is an exciting thriller and will appeal to anybody who enjoys fiction that deals with the Nazi regime and its post-war activities. The central theme of the story is the rise of the Fourth Reich, which has been biding its time in Paraguay, in the form of Karl Schmeltz, Hitler's secret son by Geli Raubal. While other reviewers have complained that this idea has become a clich, it certainly has legitimate historical precedent, and I had no problems with it. Rudolph Hernendez, a Paraguayan journalist is murdered after uncovering something that he shouldn't have. His relative, Erica Kranz, brings this to the attention of a Joseph Volkmann, an officer of the British Army, currently working for a European-wide INTERPOL-type agency, initially suspecting a link to drug smuggling. And so the story kicks off. And it takes us to several South American and European countries. I think that the descriptions of these places are excellent, and the level of detail very engaging. A nice contrast is draw between hot and tropical South America, and cold and organised Europe. As an added twist, the two key characters have personal ties to holocaust victims and the SS, bringing their own internal conflicts into play, although I do not feel that this aspect of the story was particularly well developed. The story becomes a little implausible in the last quarter of the book, which perhaps detracted a little from my enjoyment of it: Nazi's, nuclear weapons, mountain monasteries, a grand conspiracies. I rate Meade's books to date as follows: (Snow Wolf, Sands of Sakkara, Resurrection Day) > Brandenburg > Web of Deceit. The first three are must-reads! I believe that Brandenburg is well-worth a read as well, but skip Web of Deceit. Brandenburg gets three and a half stars from me.	2005-10-02
US	51914749	RGUBGNZI65OO6	0743270150	654543772	The Traitor: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fascinating and entertaining read!	This is the fascinating story of a British secret agent, Captain Joch Lockhardt, who was captured by the German forces during an unsuccessful operation on the island of Crete, in Greece. Lockhardt is manipulated into working for the Third Reich because they claim to have his wife in custody in a concentration camp. Lockhardt is set the task of establishing the British Free Corps, a small force of British \\"volunteers\\" currently held in custody in prisoner-of-war camps, and recruited into the service of the Reich. A central theme in the book is: were these men, Lockhardt in particular, traitors? The British Frei Corps did indeed exist, and its members were actively recruited from prisoner-of-war camps. I suspect that the actual recruiting of these members probably proceeded along very similar lines to what Walters describes in this book. We learn that Lockhardt indeed had his own agenda, and was planning to use his position in the service of the Reich to destroy stockpiles of sarin nerve gas kept at Mittelbau-Dora concentration camp near Nordhausen in modern-day Germany. The story deviates somewhat from what happened at Mittelbau-Dora, which was indeed a V2 rocket production, but never produced any sarin. Otherwise, the story is very well crafted, and I believe that the characters are well developed, as are the relationships between them. The portrayal of a wartime German whorehouse I feel is particularly good. From me, three-and-a-half stars. <br />	2005-10-02
US	51914749	R2IS6I834G90J2	0671047345	141415139	Separation of Power (Mitch Rapp Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Entertaining and exciting read	I enjoyed this book very much. Like other Flynn books, it combines a healthy dose of Mitch Rapp's espionage exploits together with some polical games by the guys on the Hill. I certainly enjoyed this book a lot more than Memorial Day, which was simply over the top. The story is interesting and exciting, and takes us to some interesting places, although I felt that the descriptions of some of these places were either thin or shallow. Milan in particular. Given the Bush/Blair government's very successful propoganda campaign, Flynn can be forgiven for putting Saddam Hussein and his non-existant weapons of mass destruction at the centre of the story. And I particulary liked the handling of the US-Israel relations. It is probably right on the mark! I respectfully disagree with one other reviewer here who states that Flynn's books are well-researched. There are multiple errors in this book that simply should not be there. There is no BIA airport in the United States, BIA is Bastia Poretta airport in France. One assumes that Flynn means BWI? Similarly, American Airlines doesn't fly Boeing 747 aircraft. It hasn't done so for 20 years. And, even when it did, it never flew to Milan-Malpensa. After reading this string of errors, I really have to doubt how well Flynn does indeed research his books. That fact notwithstanding, I enjoyed the story a great deal, and can heartily recommend it to anybody who enjoys action-packed espionage.	2005-10-01
US	51914749	R2W0SR6OVKR5W5	0312962118	999720718	Snow Wolf	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Outstanding read! Meade delivers the goods!	This is an outstanding book! It has a wonderful combination of a fasciniating and exciting espionage story, viewed at times in a wonderfully nostalgic background through the eyes of Anna Khorev. The novel also takes us to some fascinating areas of the world, and describes them beautifully. I whole-heartedly recommend it. The plot is primarily set in the post-war USSR, where the CIA have plotted to kill Joseph Stalin (Operation Snow Wolf), the mission being coordinated by Jake Massey, who enlisted the aid of Alex Slanksi and Anna Khorev, with the KGB under Levrente Beria attempting to thwart them at every opportunity. The characters are well developed, as are the relationships between them. And, in spite of its length, the novel remains fast paced, and addictive. I couldn't put it down.	2005-09-29
US	51914749	R1LTCS1EHRHFWQ	0525948430	518961183	Whiteout	Books	1	8	10	N	N	No, no, and..... no!	This book was awful! Up until now Ken Follett has been my number one novelist. But it is nearly impossible to believe that that this book was penned by the same hand that crafted simply outstanding novels like The Eye of the Needle and The Key to Rebecca. It is like somebody else wrote the book. All the hallmarks of a good Follett are missing. If I had not been trapped in an airplane with this novel for 12 hours, I probably would not have finished it. The story is painfully boring. The characters are so undeveloped that they might as well be crafted from cardboard. By the end of the book I was still wondering who Toni Gallo was. Or perhaps Follett did and excellent job of developing her as a shallow seemingly ditzy \\"nothing-to-her\\" character, but I cannot believe that that was his intention. Follett has drawn on two very overworked themes in current popular fiction: terrorism and \\"families with issues\\". Neither one is particularly skillfully dealt with, and frankly, trying to merge the two together was entirely unsuccessful. While the teenage characters were cute, and their coming of age experiences apparently sweet, they seemed entirely out of place here in this novel. Or perhaps I missed the point entirely, but with Follett, the point is rarely lost with anybody, right? My recommendation: re-read The Eye of the Needle, or Pillars of the Earth, or The Key to Rebecca!	2005-09-29
US	51914749	R3NMYPHOFX6ZNU	0312971087	388326298	The Sands of Sakkara	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An enchanting and exciting read!	This is a wonderful World War II story. It is unique in that it details the attempted assassination of Roosevelt and Churchill by the Germans, during their Cairo Conference in Egypt. There are three key characters in the book, Jack, Rachael and Harry, who were friends, and at times lovers, before the outbreak of the war. Each is extremely well developed, as are the convoluted and at times desperate relationships between the three of them. The story essentially deals with a contest between Jack, who has been dispatched to Cairo by the SS with the task of carrying out the assassinations, and Jack, who has been assigned (by US military intelligence) the task of preventing the assassinations from happening. This novel is a wonderful combination of suspense and adventure, set in wartime Berlin and Cairo, and I believe that Meade has done an excellent job of describing the atmosphere of those two locations during World War II. The novel is classical Glenn Meade and I wholeheartedly recommend it.	2005-09-29
US	51914749	R7O3740VHWPS9	0340824514	808350847	Resurrection Day	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent and exciting read!	I am a big fan of Glenn Meade, and RESURRECTION DAY certainly does not dissapoint. I preferred Snow Wolf and The Sands of Saqqara, however, I also thoroughly enjoyed RESURRECTION DAY, and I can wholeheartedly recommend it. It is certainly considerably better than most topics that have attempted to deal with a similar theme over the past three years. Amazingly, this prophetic novel was completed just weeks before September 11, 2001. And the story has disturbing parallels with what happened on that fateful day. This book is fast-paced and there is considerable political intrigue, giving us a glimpse into the kind of manipulation and insincerity that almost certainly plagues the corridors of power in Washington DC. And a fascinating (if fictional) account of a humbled head of state trying to deal with a terrorist. The President of the USA is well portrayed, and certainly appears more competent than the current incumbent! While it is a complex and long story, with a predictable conclusion, I believe it is well worth the read. <br />	2005-09-28
US	51914749	RTLOJ5PWKPDY4	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	2	15	21	N	N	Dull, boring read	If you are after an exciting and entertaining read, you will not find it here. Frankly this is a poor and somewhat dull novel, and at the same time an extensive (and again dull) lecture on the holes (no pun intended) in the Greenhouse Effect/Global Warming campaign. This book reads too much like a textbook or a lecture, and I found myself skipping more than half of the pages, which left very little story behind to enjoy. The story takes the reader to several fascinating and exotic locations, but once again, the story was so drowned in technical arguments surrounding global warming, there was little possibility to enjoy those locations. Certainly not one of Crichton's better books. In spite of Crichton's lecture on the failings of the Global Warming campaign, his own very overdone objections to the topic make it clear in the mind of the reader that Crichton, as judge, jury and executioner, has already dispensed with the case, and I found myself resisting his arguments for that very reason. In a nutshell: if you are after relaxing entertainment, don't waste your money. However, I would like to qualify this with an addendum. Prior to reading this novel, I had always blindly accepted the idea of global warming as hard fact. Given so much publicity, I had wrongly assumed that this was a thoroughly proven theory. I had not realised that there was considerable disagreement within the scientific community itself regarding the concept of global warming. If it was Crichton's intention to bring this to the public's attention, I guess he succeeded with me. I, however, would have rather read something more relaxing and entertaining on my flight!	2005-09-28
US	51914749	R260A0A2HYVMK8	1857880862	703133939	When Cultures Collide: Managing Successfully Across Cultures	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Excellent	This is an excellent book. From its marketing, I thought that \\"When Cultures Collide: Managing Successfully Across Cultures\\" pertained specifically to dealing with people of different nationalities in the business place. And indeed, it is a most useful book for that purpose. However, I was struck by how much one could apply Lewis' analyses to other situations, for example, dealing with people of other nationalities on a social level. Indeed, I have many aquaintances, and some close friends, from diverse backgrounds, and this book sometimes occupies us for entire evenings, discussing our experiences with one another. The chapter on Hungarians I found particularly accurate, and entertaining. I believe that Lewis would have enjoyed hearing some of these discussions (and arguments). My point is: don't dismiss this book thinking it is a businessman's tool. It's a good read for anybody who encounters people of other nationalities and cultures, irrespective of the context.	2005-07-30
US	51914749	R1IAXEH67W5C8C	0061098019	951535361	H.M.S. Unseen	Books	3	0	2	N	N	A nice sequel to Nimitz Class	HMS Unseen is Robinson's third book on an exciting theme: hijacked, stolen or borrowed submarines waging war against the US. It was great to see the return of the old villain Ben Adnam, still up to his tricks. However, one gets the distinct impression that Robinson is trying to cash in on the astounding success of Nimitz Class and Kilo Class, and certainly appears to have written this in a bit of rush, and at times, didn't seem to know where he wanted the story to go. The book starts very well, and initially, I enjoyed it a lot more than I did Kilo Class. However, the bizarre twists in the career Ben Adnam just go overboard, as does the character of Arnold Morgan, who by now is laughable, and doesn't radiate the patriotism that he used to, but rather idiocy. Robinson shold rather have ended the Morgan line in this book, not the Adnam one!  <br /> <br />I enjoy Robinson's books, and I enjoyed this one, but I fear he has started a downhill run.  <br /> <br />	2005-07-29
US	51914749	R38LQJ34AS4BX4	0061030651	923972028	U.S.S. Seawolf	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Moderately exciting, but Arnold Morgan is getting tiring!	The fourth of Robinson's submarine thrillers. I enjoy Robinson's writing a lot, and I enjoyed this book as well. Robinson seems to flip between the Arabs and the Chinese as the \\"bad guys\\". This time, it was the Chinese's turn. Interestingly, no stolen or hijacked submarines start the trouble this time, but rather a new US sub where it shouldn't be, which gets into a spot of trouble. The crew are captured and held by the Chinese. This is textbook Robinson, and the plot is easily imagined by readers of Robinson's previous works: the US Navy (since, in Robinson's view, the Airforce, Army and Marines seem to have been made redundant by the Navy) step in and rescue the good guys, while the Chinese defense is non-existant. <br /> <br />The book is a little thin on substance. It was too easy for the Yanks. Some resistance from the Chinese would have been nice, or at least a little political fall-out! But then a somehwat one-sided view is typical of this author. The biggest dissapointment in the book is this bumbling idiot Arnold Morgan. Towards the end I groaned when I saw the name printed on the page. More and more of the same boring diatribe. After a while, I just skipped those bits. Let's see what the next Robinson has to offer....  <br /> <br />	2005-07-29
US	51914749	R33VOYDCXFCK6D	006109594X	496391229	Nimitz Class	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Excellent and exciting read!	This book was an excellent read. Undoubtedly the best of Robinson's works to date. He develops the story intelligently, carefully and with a lot of suspense, which contrasts somewhat with popular submarine novels from other authors, who tend to drown the story in techno-details and over-imaginative plots, and a lot of explosions! Through the story, we travel to some fascinating locations and meet well-developed and diverse characters. I particularly enjoyed the playful banter between Morgan and Rankin, although Morgan's is somewhat overdone in places. I heartily recommend this book to anybody What's more, the sequel, Kilo Class, is just as entertaining!	2005-07-29
US	51914749	R2NO99E63M64YQ	006103066X	442862530	The Shark Mutiny (Harper Torch 103066)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A  mediocre read. Entertaining, but lacking a lot.	The Shark Mutiny is the fifth submarine techno-thriller from Patrick Robinson. I enjoy Robinson's writing, since, in contrast to Clancy (whom I also enjoy), Robinson deals a little more extensively with the personal side of the characters that he develops. However, it didn't meet my expectations. The story, unsurprisingly, involves China and the Arabian Peninsula. Robinson generally toggles between the Chinese or the arabs as his bad guys. This time he combined both areas in the same novel. The Chinese and the Iranians hatch an intriguing plot, stringing minefields accross the Strait of Hormuz. This develops into multiple plots, which unsurprisingly involve Chinese interests in Taiwan. An alert intelligence officer gets ignored by his superiors so goes over their heads and helps to save the day. I found the plot a little boring. Also, I am not sure how well tolerated would be breaking the chain of military command, no matter how right the underlings are. So, this took a bit of a stretch of the imagination. Arnold Morgan is so overdone in parts that he starts to ruin the story. I find the political bias way too overt for my liking, and had I been the editor, I would have toned it down. The characters start to lose a bit of credibility because of this. Robinson should really take care with Morgan: he risks generating a boring novel because of him.	2005-07-29
US	51914749	R1R4FV1NZSE0N0	0061096857	638944666	Kilo Class	Books	4	0	5	N	N	A great read!	Kilo Class, Robinson's second novel, is a great read. It has a fast paced, entertaining story, with the odd bit of humour nicely woven in. After Nimitz Class, it certainly did not dissapoint. A poor economic climate in the ex-Soviet Union prompts the sale of two Kilo-class submarines to China. As we have seen in Nimitz Class, these Diesel-powered boats are one of the few weapons that can be turned against a Carrier Battle Group. For this reason, should these subs fall into Chinese hands, we could see a significant shift in the balance of power in the Taiwan Strait and the South China Sea. Of course, the US administration comes to the rescue, employing some naval tactics of their own. Although the plot is very predictable, it is a nice journey, and I can certainly recommend it.	2005-07-29
US	51914749	R1QLAZGMAB7K56	0060746890	865086794	Hunter Killer	Books	2	8	10	N	N	A slight improvement on the last two, but barely.	This is Robinson's eighth submarine warfare novel, and I am starting to hope it will be his last, although it was certainly an improvement on the last two he has put out, \\"Scimitar SL2\\" and \\"Baracuda 945\\". A disgruntled member of the Saudi royal family gets disgruntled and plots their overthrow, enlisting the aid of the French. Using a French submarine, the coalition targets the Saudi family's foundation: oil. The US administration gets faint at the prospect of an energy crisis, and enlists the aid of retired Arnold Morgan to fix the problem, which he does, amid his usual right-wing racist banter. We also see the reappearance of James Ramshawe, a poorly developed character, although it is not as unfortunate as the re-appearance of that bumbling idiot Arnold Morgan. One gets the distinct impression that Robinson says to himself: I have \\"submarines, arabs and Arnold Morgan\\", and tries to throw them together to make a story. The novel deeply lacks the originality of his earlier works, the plot predictable, the characters shallow, and Arnold Morgan... well... he's just plain boring. I cannot recommend this novel. 1 and 1/2 stars.	2005-07-29
US	51914749	R12EHBBXDJW2LI	0451209338	330117464	The Kill Artist	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Excellent! An interesting and exciting read!	This book was a wonderful discovery. A touch of Le Carre, an echo of Ludlum, but a lot of something of its own as well. Silva's fourth book, and his first of several set against the backdrop of the Middle East-Palistinian conflict and the holocaust. Silva introduces a fascinitating character in Gabriel Allon, and weaves a wonderful network of intriguing relationships with equally intriguing characters, most notably Ari Shamron and Tariq. Allon, a \\"retired\\" assassin formerly in the employ of Mossad is brought out of retirement when a former arch-rival, in the form of Tariq, is plotting the assassination of a major head of state. The plot is exciting and fast paced, and takes the reader to some fascinating locations. Silva's \\"art restorer\\" background for Allon is a gem. This book gets 4 and 1/2 stars from me! I thoroughly enjoyed it, and wholeheartedly recommend it.	2005-07-28
US	51914749	RJEL8LA2DAXA6	0399152431	287820315	Prince of Fire	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A slightly dissapointing read from Silva	The Prince of Fire is Daniel Silva's fifth \\"Gabriel Allon\\" novel. The story evolves after a bombing of the Israeli Embassy in Rome. Allon's \\"handler\\", Ari Shamron directs Allon to investigate. Allon is subsequently assigned to find and execute Khaled, who is thought to be behind many bombings of Jewish targets around the world. As with all of Silva's novels, it is extremely well written, and it certainly entertains. So, why the three-star rating? Szilva has set quite a standard for himself, particularly, in my opinion, with The Kill Artist and The Confessor. However, one gets the distinct impression in this novel that Silva is running out of ideas about what to do with Allon (not surprising perhaps after four excellent novels before this one!). Perhaps to compenaste for this, the novel suddenly gets buried in political/historical details. While these were always a feature of Silva's novels, they were usually very well \\"worked into\\" the story, and seemed a real part of the story. Now they appear to be there for lack of any other story to tell. Furthermore, there is noticably more political bias in this novel. While it was always there, since Silva is clearly pro-Israeli and pro-Zionist, it was never as apparent before as it is now. I feel that these two new developments detract from the pleasure of reading the book, and I found myself skipping a few pages now and then. Furthermore, the formal relationship between Allon and Chiara seems out of place in Allon's life, who Silva has always been at pains before to paint (no pun intended) as a loner. I believe that Silva should take care with Allon in his next novel (which is sure to come). Silva has spent a lot of time creating and developing a strong, compassionate, sensitive character with a profound sense of values. From this latest novel, this same character appears to weaken, lose his way, and seems a little dull at times. This is not the Allon we know! Take care Daniel.... don't ruin him! Having made these criticisms, The Prince of Fire remains an excellent read, and true to Silva fashion, we are taken on a wonderful journey to many enchanting places. I particularly liked the descriptions of life in Jerusalem, which I found quite accurate from my own experiences. I would recommend prospective readers, who have not read Silva before, to start with the first \\"Gabriel Allon\\" novels: The Kill Artist, The English Assasin, and The Confessor.	2005-07-28
US	51914749	R35LDR3NAXUGP4	0451209311	36438183	The Mark of the Assassin	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A damn good read!	I enjoyed this book a great deal, even though I read it on a 747 flying out of Kennedy Airport towards London! This is Silva's second book, and the first to deal with the threat of international terrorism. It is quite topical in a sense, considering the fate of TWA600. It is an excellent thriller, fast paced, with well-developed characters. Clearly a good training for Silva, since his character development in his subsequent novels was outstanding. I do not agree with some other reviewers who state that the plot is not believable. I believe that it is all too believable. The story starts when an international airliner is downed by a missile fired from a terrorist on a boat. The terrorist kills his accomplice in a signature fashion, which comes to the attention of a CIA analyst, Michael Osborne, who has his own personal score to settle with the terrorist. And so we plunge into the intriguing and scary world of international terrorism, and the anti-terrorist efforts spearheaded by Osborne. Of course, there are some interesting sub-plots woven in as well, often dealing with the personal lives of the main players. It was a damn good read, and can I strongly recommend this book.	2005-07-28
US	51914749	R203DFRLX1ASLZ	0451209303	442800937	The Unlikely Spy	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Outstanding!	This, the first of Daniel Silva's novels, and certainly one of his best, is an outstanding read. I couldn't put it down. The plot is set during the latter part of WWII. Catherine Blake, a German spy living in London is trying to uncover the secrets of the allied invasion. She is getting dangerously close. And trying to thwart her at every corner is a counter-spy operation, spear-headed by Alfred Vicary. Various sub-plots are woven in along the way, not the least of which is the inter-office manipulating by devious members of the allied high command. The plot is both solid and full of surprises, and the climax very satisfying. The characters are wonderfully developed. At times I was reminded of Follet's \\"The Eye of the Needle\\", which is high praise in itself. Daniel Silva really dealt with the WWII setting wonderfully. It would be great to have another WWII spy story from him. I can wholeheartedly recommend this novel, and it is a great introduction to Daniel Silva's works, which must rate as some of the best espionage/suspense works today.	2005-07-28
US	51914749	R2UISNV6H0LKXV	0451211480	619984812	The Confessor (Gabriel Allon)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	OUTSTANDING! Silva's best to date!	Reviewer: rmorty from Giessen, Germany <br />This book is outstanding. This book is Silva's sixth, and the third in the \\"Gabriel Allon\\" series, although it does not deal directly with the Middle East/Palistinian conflict directly, but rather takes an interesting twist and delves into not one, but two, very controversial relationships: between the Catholic Church and the Third Reich, and between the Vatican and the Jews, in particular, the handling of the holocast by the Vatican. Weaving the story in with the manipulation and intrigue for which the Vatican is famous, above all else, makes for a breathtakingly exciting plot, and the usual fasciniating cast of solid and well-developed characters for which Silva is renowned. For readers of The Kill Artist and The English Assassin, it is Gabriel Allon at his best, and the familiar cast of other characters previously introduced, like Ari Shamron, do not dissapoint, although this novel is just as good a read if it is your first Daniel Silva. The reader is taken on a fascinating journey through enchanting parts Venice and Rome, as well as the Italian lake district, amongst other exotic locations. The plot itself is solid and well-researched. I cannot recommend this book highly enough. It is one of very few books for which I have both awarded five stars, and have read more than once! My favourite Daniel Silva novel of them all.	2005-07-28
US	51914749	R1BICREMEHQYDV	0451208188	826329544	The English Assassin (Gabriel Allon)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Silva doesn't dissapoint!	In this novel, the second in the \\"Gabriel Allon\\" series, Daniel Silva takes us into the murky world of money and power behind that spectacular scenic facade that is Switzerland to most us. On the down-side, unlike The Kill Artist and The Confessor, in this novel, Silva seems to have some difficulty tying the novel together. Hence my three-star award. However, this should in no way discourage any propective reader from giving this book a try. It is vintage Silva, and it is an excellent read. As always, Silva's characters are very well developed, and it was great to see Gabrial Allon and Ari Shamron in action again. Allon is dispatched to Switzerland allegedly to restore a painting. Upon his arrival there, he finds his employer murdered, and has a tangle with the Swiss police, although he is released shortly afterwards. The story takes off from there, with Allon taking on a secret power structure within Switzerland with a very shady past. While I place this novel third amongst the first three \\"Gabriel Allon\\" novels, it remains an excellent and exciting read, and I highly recommend it.	2005-07-28
US	51914749	R1F2Y230CFB2W0	0451213181	275831919	A Death in Vienna (Gabriel Allon, Bk 4)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	A good read!	This is the seventh book from Daniel Silva, and his fourth dealing with the escapades of part-time art-restorer part-time Israeli spy/assassin Gabriel Allon. As always, Silva does not dissapoint. A colleague of Allon's is killed in his office in Vienna, an office that specialises in investigating aspects of the holocaust. Allon's handler, Ari Shamron, directs Allon to investigate, and so the story starts. A story that takes us to Austria, Italy, the Argentinian highlands, the United States, and of course to Israel. The story also touches on two themes that Allon has visitied before: the holocaust, and the relations between the Vatican and the Third Reich. The story is a thriller in every sense, and I thoroughly enjoyed it, as I have all of Silva's books. Silva usually takes his readers on an enchanting journey through many interesting countries and cities, and he is a master at accurate descriptions of these places. His descriptions in other novels of Rome, Venice and Jerusalem, amongst other places, were simply outsanding, and highly accurate. At least, in my experience of these places. But he and I clearly had very different experiences of Vienna. I was surprised by his \\"missing the mark\\" with Austria in general and Vienna in particular. It is a wonderful country and a wonderful city: gay, lively, tolerant. It is hardly this dark and foreboding hotbed of antisemitism and fascism like he has chosen to portray it. I suspect that Silva did spend some time Vienna, and it is not too accurately portrayed, when compared with my own experiences. And, while I do concede that Austrian coffee terminology can be a little tricky for a non-German speaker, I suspect that few Viennese order a cup of whipped cream in a cafe. However, that is not to say that this book is a most enjoyable read, and I have no hesitation in recommending it. If this is your first \\"Gabriel Allon\\" novel, I would recommend to read the previous three first, to put it in perspective. Vienna has a special place in Allon's history, and I think it is important to understand that when reading this book. From me: three and a half stars!	2005-07-28
US	51914749	R5LFS7JBS4587	0060086629	603736518	Barracuda 945 (Robinson, Patrick)	Books	1	8	9	N	N	Bad Read	I am (was) quite a fan of Robinson, although I have been progressively dissapointed lately with each new novel. I tried to read this with an open and enthusiastic mind. Well, the beginning was okay. But one quarter of the way through I was battling terribly, I finished it out of duty. The days of Nimitz Class and Kilo Class are clearly gone, and are not coming back. The story is absurd. It moves at a painfully slow pace. The characters are undeveloped and dull. This book paints an idiotic view of the US administration. Okay, perhaps it is on the mark there presently, but Arnold Morgan is even more ridulous than anything I can imagine even in the current US administration, and there is a lot of latitude there already! The general flow of the story is all too predictable, and I cannot recommend it. If you've never read Robinson before, rather read Nimitz Class or Kilo Class. If you have, then don't touch it!	2005-07-27
US	51914749	R3A5C5IT2SA2OQ	0060086645	214590149	Scimitar SL-2	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Bad, boring read!	For somebody who has read all of Patrick Robinson's work, I was thrilled with Nimitz Class, and emmensely enjoyed Kilo Class, liked the first half of HMS Unseen. From there on, it was a downhill run. Mr Robinson should clearly start writing about something other than submarines. Compared with his previous work, the plot is unoriginal, thin, and the characters boring, and hardly developed at all. In fact, his imagination was so strained that has re-visited topics raised in earlier works. If you want a really good read, pick Nimitz Class or Kilo Class. The rest are rubbish.	2005-07-27
