US	51920305	R1KRLJUHY3EUU9	0373250134	559572782	Slightly Single (Red Dress Ink paperback}	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Brittle story and underdeveloped character	I wanted to like Slightly Single, really. However, Markham has not created a novel worth recommending, and Slightly Single adds nothing to the already deluged chick-lit genre -- and I really enjoy this genre. The main character, Tracey, spends the whole novel mooning over her absentee 'boyfriend', and basically engages in a 280 page whine-fest. Yes, I understand it's hard being away from the person you care about, but come on -- this genre is meant to offer escape and hope, not a detailing of a single girl's worst qualities. In addition, you don't receive any depth of detail about anything other than Tracey's broken heart. Character development through her job? Character development through her personal motivations on her self-improvement kick? Character development through her family? Character development in general? Sadly, no no no and no. Is Tracey really meant to be this superficial, in that her whole life revolves around an arrogant, unworthy guy? Perhaps. However, if that's the case, then even that angle is not properly developed.<br />There are so many chick-lit books out there, and nearly all of them are better than this. Read this if you must, but you'd be better off reading a book like Good in Bed or Milkrun. Those are both good examples of how chick-lit should be written.	2002-12-23
US	51920305	R1QL9TO9PICTOY	0679439382	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	4	9	15	N	N	A novel to savor	Like so many others, I was incredibly eager to read TLF. At first, it is easy to dismiss TLF as poorly written. However, it is very necessary to not measure TLF against The Secret History, in terms of storytelling style. TSH was a dynamic, action-based story. TLF, on the other hand, is a leisurely, sprawling story. TLF is a character driven novel, and to truly enjoy it, you must take the time to learn about these characters. TLF demands you spend time reading this, without rushing. TSH and TLF could not be more different in terms of style. However, this difference underscores the sheer magnificience of Tartt's ability as a writer. Gone is the clipped, rush of New England speech and action. Instead, we discover the story and characters in TLF through a much more leisurely pace, such as you would imagine to hear from a Southern storyteller. Through the use of omniscient narration, the reader is able to know each character and learn their personal motivations. Especially with the Ratliffs, this is a very effective and sometimes scary way to get to know these characters. The mind of an advanced meth junkie is not pleasant.<br />In TLF, we meet precocious Harriet who is determined to spend her summer finding, and bringing to 'justice', the person responsible for murdering her brother 12 years previously. Through the course of her 'investigation', the reader comes to know Harriet's family and the Ratliffs. Harriet's family is unusual in her town -- her father lives with a mistress in another state, but her parents are still married -- and is a very matriarchal family. The Ratliffs are an embodiment of White Trash that is truly stunning and frightening. Their family pasttimes include drugs, religion, lots of crime. The Ratliffs have a visiting revival preacher staying with them, and this preacher uses snakes as part of his service/performances. There are two specific, vivid scenes with the snakes that will truly make your skin crawl and horrify you. Of course, they both involve Harriet. Harriet is adventurous and generally quite intelligent for her age. However, it's when Harriet really starts scheming that events push past intelligence towards thrilling.<br />Those looking for a mirror of TSH should look elsewhere. Tartt created a magnificient, unique novel in TLF and she deserves every bit of praise she earns for this novel. It is captivating and will linger with the reader long after the novel is finished.	2002-11-06
US	51920305	R1OWBDZ15JOWTM	0385721617	199046804	Juno & Juliet: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Candid and compelling	Julian Gough creates a remarkable heroine [Juliet] in Juno and Juliet. The Js are twins, just starting their first year of university in Galway. With a keen eye for observation and youthful discovery of thought, love and freedom, Gough has written a novel which captures these qualities without adopting a pedantic tone or drawing on the many cliches of first-year university life.<br />It is really Juliet's unfolding and discovery of knowledge that make this book such a gem. Her observations of her friends are astute, and her conversations with her literature teaching assistant are amazing. If you're an English major, or simply a literature-phile, you will greatly enjoy their conversations. They will stir your memory and challenge your notions of what constitutes good writing and why reading lists are they way they are.<br />While the discovery motif is strong enough to carry this novel, Gough also injects side stories of mystery and romance. The sum of this novel is a true capturing of youth and the transition that occurs in the first year of university. Gough possesses an incredible mastery of language and storytelling, and this novel seals the promise of a writer to watch.	2002-09-26
US	51920305	R1YAYLXYRTDO4I	0452283027	129980014	Farm Fatale: A Comedy of Country Manors	Books	2	6	11	N	N	The story is out to pasture, and lost	After reading Holden's first two novels, I was especially interested in reading her third. Bad Heir Day was a moderately good book, but no where near as entertaining and compelling as Simply Divine. Unfortunately, Farm Fatale is lost in the countryside. <br />We meet two couples, Rosie and Mark -- semi-struggling Londoners -- and Samantha and Guy -- wealthy Londoners. Through a series of circumstances, both couples (who don't know each other) end up in the same English country village. While Rosie is the most keen to move to the country, her descriptions of the country never made me feel like I was there. <br />I suspect this novel was written under a deadline, and it painfully shows. The four main characters are so distressed and stressed out, it's hard to feel anything for them. Holden spends too much time dwelling on the complaints of the characters without bringing more depth to this novel. The characters just complain and complain and complain and the reader has to wait forever for any of the characters to have the nerve to actually DO something to improve their life. Yes, we know about Rosie and her struggling career as an illustrator, and Mark as a washed-up wannabe newspaper writer, but there is no spark that makes any of the characters interesting or likable. When the fancy dress party arrives on page 220, it felt like the novel was going to change and sparkle, at last. Unfortunately, the party was over in a few pages (Holden could have had such fun spending more time describing the party!!), and the reader is back in the distressed lives of the main characters. What spark does come to the surface in the final section of the book simply isn't enough to carry the story. <br />Even if you're a fan of Holden's novels, I recommend leaving this one alone. Unfortunately, Holden's best novel was her first (Simply Divine), and neither of her follow-up novels are as good. If you're interested in a British-chick-in-the-countryside novel, try Stately Pursuits by KatieFforde -- her observations are keen and spot-on and her characters are instantly more likeable and entertaining.	2002-07-18
US	51920305	R202OS8UCEKYEZ	0312206763	694468513	Stately Pursuits	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Positively endearing	Stately Pursuits begins with Hetty's boyfriend dumping her in an excrutiatingly embarassing way and then Hetty's mother pushes her into housesitting for a distant relative. Hetty is starting from zero in a country town, and what a cast of characters! Eligible men, pushy (but well-meaning) neighbors and the cooler-than-cool Caroline. Once Hetty arrives, she realizes her uncle's house needs a lot of work before it is opened to the public a few months from her arrival. The house renovations are a nice and not heavyhanded counterpoint to the renovations which occur in Hetty's life as she starts over with a new job as housesitter/renovator, new friends, and possible new romance. As Hetty makes the house her project, she unknowingly becomes the project of her new best friend Caroline and ...<br />The story has a hint of a fairy-tale quality, but Hetty is not the fairy-tale heroine who needs rescuing, thank you very much. There is just enough fairy-tale to lift this novel from being glum but still keep the story line believable in a 'this could really happen' way. This is a lovely story, and Fforde possesses an abundance of clear, insightful and snappy writing skills. Setting the story in the country is a nice change from the many other city-based Brit Chick novels. The sheer high quality of her writing reminds me of Marian Keyes. Stately Pursuits was a pleasure to read, and I've already ordered more of Fforde's novels. Highly recommended.	2002-07-12
US	51920305	R7LTACVOB3WE6	0743225805	592016606	21 Dog Years: A Cube Dweller's Tale	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Amusing, but not Deep or Revelatory	After deciding he needs dental insurance, Daisey takes a job at the first place that offers him a job. That just happens to be Amazon.com. There are many anecdotes in the first half of the book about some of the oddballs in CS that made me laugh out loud. However, the criticisms Daisey has for Amazon.com have little merit and aren't terribly well thought-out. His complaints are more about working for a corporation instead of working for Amazon.com. <br />There is not enough insightful material about *Amazon.com* that makes this book about Amazon.com. In fact, this book veers between Daisey's 'I'm not worthy, but I'm clever' persona and Amazon.com so much, it's unclear what the main subject of the book is. If this book is supposed to be about Amazon.com, it could have been a much more compelling story if there were more details about the sheer rollercoaster-ness of working at Amazon.com in the early days. And frankly, working at Amazon.com in the first five years was not a cakewalk. I know because I worked there during that time. You were either able to match the pace, or you couldn't. Daisey admits that he couldn't. Daisey is not a company man, and by the end of the book, you don't think he even realizes that and that working for a corporation was never a step in the right direction for him. He expresses shock when \\"Mullet\\" is promoted. However, this book shows little initiative on Daisey's part to move up in the company and he admits he was a poor worker. He also writes that he had to figure out ways to 'cheat' to improve his contact numbers (e.g. hang up on the customer and it looks like you resolved that call mighty quick!). The secret to his move to Business Development: a clever and intricate smokescreen of BS.<br />While I'm sure his one-man show is hilarious, the details just don't exist to make this book more than a semi-whiny 'I was there back in the day' memoir. Amazon.com is at turns an exhilarating and sometimes surreal place to work. Unfortunately, thisbook does little to capture this, and is instead more of a 'the Big Bad Evil Corporation' story. <br />This book has a high consumability, much cotton candy -- sweet and exhilarating during consumption, but ultimately unsatisfying or memorable in the end. Daisey doesn't have a unique angle on the Amazon.com experience, and this memoir is not unique -- only the first.	2002-06-14
US	51920305	RXV1Z8CP8E3PQ	0743418174	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Good to the last page and beyond	We meet Candace after she's told her boyfriend she 'wants a break' and right before she discovers he thought she meant she wanted to completely break up with him. She finds this out in an article in a national magazine that he's just started writing for, which begins \\"Loving a larger woman is an act of courage.\\" While Candace didn't think her boyfriend understood her, she finds out in his magazine column he really did understand her struggles with weight and image and that he really did love her, regardless of her weight. It is also refreshing to hear the boyfriend's point of view without it being filtered through Candace, or another third party.<br />While many recent chick-lit books feature a newly-dumped protagonist, as this book does, Good in Bed sidesteps the trap of 'I've been dumped' self pity. Of course, there are scenes when Candace feels sorry for herself and is sad about the demise of her relationship, they are never overindulgent or over-the-top. And while she is heartbroken, the reader sees her dating and facing the prejudices that exist for overweight women. And while Candace is overweight, she is refreshingly and genuinely portrayed as concerned about her health. She visits the gym on a regular basis and eats normally. It's refreshing to read a novel featuring an overweight woman who's not overweight because she doesn't exercise and eats junk food, but who's overweight because that's just the way her body was built.<br />Good in Bed is also nice in that it portrays a Jewish protagonist who doesn't fall into the trap of being a Jewish cliche. While Cannie isn't orthodox or actively practicing her religion, it provides a nice depth to her character and her family's.<br />Alternately a funny and heartbreaking book (the post-pregnancy sequence is particularly harrowing), Good in Bed will work its way under your skin and keep your attention long past the final page. This is strong and thoughtful writing, and Weiner is a writer to watch.	2002-05-30
US	51920305	R1C17PQDK1GI6O	0373250150	485798933	Confessions of an Ex-Girlfriend	Books	2	12	17	N	N	Confession: This book is a disappointment	I was excited to read this book because the reviews made it sound fresh and interesting. I'm sad to say I was quite disappointed to find this to be a simply average single girl in NYC story.<br />Confessions works very hard to appeal to the fans of Sex and the City. Each of the 'confessions' tries to work as one of the tag lines that you hear (or read) in Sex and the City. While some of the confessions hit the mark, most are wildly off and just aren't very witty or surprising.<br />Also, it was so clear how this book was going to end and who Emma would be interested in at the end. Several of the books I've read lately, in this genre, all follow the same 'date a couple guys, view an attractive guy from afar that only pops up in the story every 50 pages or so' formula. In addition, the formula of a woman-with-poor-self-esteem-and-recently-left/dumped-by-her-boyfriend is also wearing very thin and Confessions subscribes to this formula as well. One of the reasons Bridget Jones' Diary worked so well was because she starts the novel off as single, and the novel is a documentation of her dating foibles -- not a novel of half-hearted dating foibles because she knows deep down in her heart that the boyfriend who recently dumped her loves her (but doesn't realize it) and will coming back begging (or at least calling) before she can finish her pint of frozen yogurt or package of sickly sweet and artificial twinkies or Ho-Hos.<br />Curnyn does a solid job of creating a readable story, but she spends too much time with the details of heartbreak instead of the details of dating and getting on with life. We've all experienced heartbreak, and read too many novels about heartbreak, so we don't need another blow-by-blow. When it comes down to it, Emma only goes on a couple dates and those dates aren't enough to compensate for the sad wallowing the majority of the novel details.<br />Curnyn does show talent as a writer and she clearly displays an affinity for creating characters thereader cares about and for creating several interlocking stories, and it will be interesting to see what she writes next.	2002-05-13
US	51920305	R1303G214JEWE4	067177543X	812693368	Playing Away	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Guilty Pleasure	Connie has what many women aspire -- a good job, great friends, a perfect husband and a lovely home. However, Connie suffers in this perfection. She is the type of character that always needs a challenge, and cannot be content once she's conquered the challenge and is eyeing her next challenge.<br />It is not until she meets John that she realizes her life is 'missing something.' They both intrigue each other and the sparks fly between them, and they are lovers before long.<br />Playing Away is an interesting meditation on the nature and consequences of infidelity. Each of Connie's friends react very differently when the hear the news of John, and they all provide unique perspectives (including her friend Lucy who purposely sleeps with married men, only). It is these viewpoints which really tie this story together. Instead of the story being an internal conflict of Connie, and only providing her perspective, we get to see Connie through the eyes and viewpoints of her close friends. The reader is shown the affair's effect -- from her surprising rosy glow and bounce in the step, to the point where she ignores her 'normal' life and becomes a wreck when John doesn't call.<br />Eventually, the affair ends and life begins to go back to normal. But of course the novel doesn't end at this point -- the aftermath of the affair explodes. Connie must reassess her life, her priorities and what she will do to achieve that life.<br />This is an interesting and well-written subject of a difficult subject to humanize. Adele Parks does a wonderful job of showing the desires that cause a woman with a seemingly perfect life to turn her world upside down. Parks wrote a fine novel, and I look forward to future novels.<br />Also recommended on this subject: Layover by Lisa Zeidner	2002-04-19
US	51920305	R1NEGG0M3FDRZ9	0373250118	46887746	See Jane Date (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Demanding Dating Dilemmas!!	See Jane Date is a humorous look at dating, with a nice bit of 'serious' life, too. In Jane actually liking her job, and working towards being promoted, SJD refreshingly proves there is more to life than just dating. <br />In the beginning, Jane is invited to a wedding and refuses a set-up (\\"he's such a nice boy\\") by saying she has a boyfriend. With two months to the wedding, Jane has to strike out and start dating in order to find someone to bring. As Jane wasn't dating before having to find a wedding date, Senate addresses a different set of fears and emotions about the dating life. Instead of \\"oh, there are so many men and none of them stack up\\" Jane is more \\"oh, I need a date for a wedding and I have to rely on blind dates to meet any guys.\\" Jane portrays a world, even in NYC, where meeting tons of men and dating isn't the easiest task in the world if you're only an average outgoing personality.<br />Senate's writing is crisp, articulate and engaging. For a first novel, she really demonstrates a natural storytelling ability and a gift for drawing the reader into a character's world. In addition, she does a believable job of creating additional characters without them seeming like faint ghosts of the original character (take \\"Opera Man\\" for example).<br />The ending isn't a great surprise, and does keep you guessing until the final couple pages (will it end like I suspect; will it not?). This is a quick read, and enjoyable.	2002-04-16
US	51920305	RW61PBVASXQA1	0373250126	471365971	Milkrun	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Quick and entertaining	In the vein of the Bridget Jones phenonmenon, Mlynowski has written a novel of 20-something dating angst. This is not a deep book, nor does it reveal new discoveries of the mind of the 20-something female dater. What this book does have is tons of funny one-liners and very good writing that truly captures and convey the characters. Especially humorous are the scenes of Jackie dating. While critics may see the selection of guys as cliche, I felt this book worked because they are a pretty accurate representation of a lot of guys that are out there. Also, Jackie doesn't do anything unique to meet guys, so you expect that she is going to find run-of-the-mill guys. If she started hanging out in art galleries, maybe she'd meet an interesting, moody artist. But she doesn't, so she doesn't. The characterizations of Jackie, her friends and the guys she date rang especially true for me because they reminded me of so many people I know. Jackie and her friends are straightforward characterizations that one expects to find in a novel like this.<br />While this is not the most unique novel, it really is a quick and entertaining diversion. The story of Milkrun succeeds because of Mlynowski's witty and clever writing.	2002-04-09
US	51920305	R255IILV24XS01	0452282934	554303742	Backpack	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Engaging and interesting	Backpack is a nice change of pace from the dearth of British single girl fiction. While the protagonist, Tansy, is newly single, instead of moping around London she heads to Asia.<br />To say Tansy is unprepared to travel for a year and that she endures culture shock, is an understatement. Who else would pack designer clothes, including white linen, in a backpack. By the end of her first day, many finger marks from children beggars are all over the bottom of her shirt. Reluctantly, she buys more practical clothes -- including tye-dye t-shirts. These t-shirts are like those worn by the backpackers that she tries not to associate herself with \\"I'm a traveller, not a backpacker.\\" Even as Tansy starts spending more and more time with backpackers, and continually growing to feel like genuine friends with them, she is still hesitant to label herself as one. Regardless of this, the more she travels the more her personality and outlook are effected. <br />Barr does a very good job of showing how immersion in a foreign culture, with or without travel partners, will alter your outlook on life. While the location descriptions aren't always very distinct or tangible, the reader is provided with a reasonably good sense of Tansy's location. It was my impression that this story could have been set anywhere where Tansy didn't know the local language. But that just reinforces the idea that this is Tansy's story, with Asia as a backdrop instead of Asia as a central point to the story. Where other single Brit girl books have their protagonists swilling chardonnay and eating milk trays, Tansy is drinking Dragon beer and worrying about ordering vegetarian food properly.<br />The murder mystery angle is interesting and, at times, provides more pull to the overall storyline than Tansy's 'what will I do about my boyfriend back home' and 'what will I do about my lover here' frequent musings. And this storyline also nicely ties together Tansy's friends and family back home, and provides a strong undercurrent amongst Tansy and her travelling companions.<br />All in all, this is a solid first novel and I will be interested to read Barr's next novel. In taking a familiar theme and character-type and dumping them in Asia, Barr has nicely drawn a parallel between the shock of the loss of a romantic partner and the shock and bewilderment you feel when you're suddenly immersed in a culture you know little about. It is the setting of Asia that makes this novel refreshingly stand out from its genre.	2002-02-27
US	51920305	R1GEP31MNSH68S	0805047182	658887208	Frugal Indulgents: How to Cultivate Decadence When Your Age and Salary Are Under 30	Books	2	15	16	N	N	Nice idea, but lacks true substance	While the sections on finding a place to live and managing your wardrobe is informative and entertaining, the section on entertainment is incredibly lacking.<br />The authors assume everyone has an expense account, so you can \\"expensploitate\\" various purchases. Even if we weren't in a bad economy, this is a bad idea and the best and fastest way to get fired from a job. At one point, reference is made to carrying $10,000 debt on a credit card as if that's acceptable. Excuse me, but if you're making under $30K a year, carrying $10K in credit card debt is one of the dumbest things to do (esp since they were talking about this debt while covering the fashion section).<br />It is only when you come to the entertainment section that you realize the authors are expecting their readers to dress and act glam all the time. For example, they include a testimonial from someone who ate rice and beans for six days a week so they could splurge on a fancy meal once a week. Why not just pack a sandwich or leftovers for lunch? Oh right, they don't really suggest you seriously learn how to cook as long as you can make soup, an unsatisfying vegetarian meal, or hors d'oeuvres for your party that begins at 10pm (who cares about neighbors??).<br />There is also a dearth of missing information in this book (except for the frequent flyer programs). At one point, they mention that some recent college grads can go work in places like London within six months after graduation, and they say you should look into it. BUT THEY DON'T NAME THE PROGRAM! Nor do they mention that this is a program only Canadians can participate in.<br />While the authors may think using drugs is trendy and acceptable, writing that snorting heroin is acceptable is utterly a grievous error of judgement. One of their questionaires deals with parties and each answer involves doing drugs, without an option to NOT. They give the impression that you will lose glam points if you don't at the very least go home and smoke a joint. I also felt the authors spent way too much time extolling the virtues of finding yourself with a drink in your hand as an evening or weekend activity. It was only when they showed options of when you are absolutely broke that they suggested going to a museum, poetry reading or some other non-liquor-based activity. Going to the theater was only an option if you were going on a date with someone richer and boring. Believe me, drinking all the time becomes boring regardless of where you do it or who you do it with.<br />The sections on wardrobe and housing are fairly helpful, and the authors do provide useful information on what is worth shelling out serious cash for, and what items are not worth owning. The stories they related of friends' adventures in creative living (such as the guy who continually house-sat and never paid for his own place) are interesting and provide inspiration to look beyond the obvious rental option.<br />Finally, this book gives no information on how to manage money. I wouldn't expect a book like this to provide lots of advice, but if you live in cheap apartments, work for a pittance and rack up $10K in credit card debt for clothes, what do they think will happen when you turn 30? This book is completely live-in-the-moment and doesn't offer any information on how to upgrade your indulgent life when you begin making more money. <br />This is a moderately entertaining book. But if you are really interested in a hip lifestyle book with sane and informative entertainment suggestions, read elsewhere. The useful information on clothing can be found by carefully reading magazines and the housing information can be found elsewhere.	2002-02-01
US	51920305	R3BJCKQB8QRT35	0316158461	639679794	The Archivist: A Novel	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Slow and a bit contrived	While this is an interesting novel, it takes some time to begin to enjoy it. Much of the first 1/2 of the book reads like an ode to the narrator's 'beautiful in every way' wife. Descriptions of his dead wife go on and on. In another novel, this might be fine, but The Archivist is about the archivist in charge of the Eliot/Hale correspondence, not about a beautiful, dead woman -- that's Poe's territory.<br />As it was pointed out by other reviewers, the similarities between the Eliot/Hale relationship and that of the narrator and his wife are quite strong. This actually felt a bit contrived. When I finished this book, I wasn't clear if the richness of the story was generated in the mind of the author, or if it was the richness of the life of Eliot &amp; Hale that was lifted and placed in this novel.<br />On another note, all the 'Jewishness' of a variety of characters also felt contrived and cliche. The descriptions and portrayals of what Jewishness meant for the characters simply did not make them more complex or real for me. If you know nothing about the Hebrew faith, this book will not provide depth unique to this story. It just didn't have the impact I'm sure the author intended. The only mileage the Jewish characters receive from their faith is anger and disillusionment, and it is a character motivation I've seen so many other times. <br />Finally, it is tiring to continually read novels or see movies where the older, male character is rejuvenated by a young woman. It makes you wonder if men will only respond to youthful female-ness. It's disenchanting because although this isn't true, reading and viewing this scenario over and over doesn't help in dispelling this misconception, and you would think a novel written by a woman wouldn't fall into this Woody Allen-esque cliche.<br />An interesting read if you're a devoted Eliot fan. Otherwise,  steer clear of this one.	2001-09-28
US	51920305	R3GZTE8KD7AGE6	1573225541	223433193	Going Down	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Lightweight entertainment	This is obviously a first novel from a writer with connections. You know, spotty and inconsistent writing mixed with a compelling story idea. This is &quot;Going Down&quot;.<br />This is a compelling story, even if you just want to attempt figuring out why Bennington decided to become a working girl. It is never clear if the reason why Bennington isn't shown thinking beyond &quot;I need money, how much will I need to work to get it?&quot; is because she truly is a vacuous, shallow character, or if the author simply overlooked her character's character.<br />Belle's descriptions are frequently crisp and provide nice depth to the larger scene. The moments when the writing is dead on, and there are several dead on moments, that it makes up for the inconsistent writing elsewhere. By inconsistent, I mean using the final sentence of a paragraph to tell you what was shown by the previous sentences; constantly reminding your of character quirks (such as Bennington's dislike of fish &amp; shellfish) as if the reader has no attention span and memory.<br />I've also read &quot;High Maintenance&quot; (I actually read HM first), and both novels are definitely in the category of lightweight entertainment. While they may attempt at dealing with &quot;big&quot; issues, there isn't enough character emotional depth to pull this off. However, the behavior of the characters is enough to make you want to continue reading -- if only to wonder how a character can be so foolish.	2001-09-21
US	51920305	RYF3RUDB5K1V6	006019541X	351520335	Blue Angel: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Compelling and timely	This novel of the inbred and conniving world of literary academia is spot on. &quot;Blue Angel&quot; is peppered with awkward [at the best of times] dinner parties and staff meetings, where every character is trying to figure out a way to undermine another or gain ammunition for future undermining.<br />The main character Swenson, is a writing professor at a small New England college. His students are by and large terrible writers, and are distinctive in that they all write about violence or bestiality. One of his students, the introverted punk-ish girl allows Swenson to read her novel. Swenson becomes drawn to her, arguably because she is actually a good writer. A seemingly mutual attraction builds between the two, and the normally non-straying Swenson (he's married to the school nurse), finds himself slapped with a sexual discrimination suit.<br />While this is a compelling and well written novel, the storyline would be much more compelling if the character of Swenson was a woman. It felt too cliche for the kind, confused professor to wind up in an awkward situation with a female undergrad. This novel could have been much fresher and so much more interesting had the reader been able to venture into the mind of woman charged with sexual harassment. We understand the male psyche -- he needs an ego stroke and he's in the neutral zone with his wife.<br />Regardless of the fact Swenson is male, this is a great read. Recommended.	2001-09-21
US	51920305	RF850TOH23N0O	1573225541	223433193	Going Down	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Lightweight entertainment	This is obviously a first novel from a writer with connections. You know, spotty and inconsistent writing mixed with a compelling story idea. This is &quot;Going Down&quot;.<br />This is a compelling story, even if you just want to attempt figuring out why Bennington decided to become a working girl. It is never clear if the reason why Bennington isn't shown thinking beyond &quot;I need money, how much will I need to work to get it?&quot; is because she truly is a vacuous, shallow character, or if the author simply overlooked her character's character.<br />Belle's descriptions are frequently crisp and provide nice depth to the larger scene. The moments when the writing is dead on, and there are several dead on moments, that it makes up for the inconsistent writing elsewhere. By inconsistent, I mean using the final sentence of a paragraph to tell you what was shown by the previous sentences; constantly reminding your of character quirks (such as Bennington's dislike of fish &amp; shellfish) as if the reader has no attention span and memory.<br />I've also read &quot;High Maintenance&quot; (I actually read HM first), and both novels are definitely in the category of lightweight entertainment. While they may attempt at dealing with &quot;big&quot; issues, there isn't enough character emotional depth to pull this off. However, the behavior of the characters is enough to make you want to continue reading -- if only to wonder how a character can be so foolish.	2001-09-21
US	51920305	R3LI5BA7VX4QPL	0156010704	900920530	Double Down: Reflections on Gambling and Loss	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Intriguing and interesting look at compulsive gambling	This is an intriguing look at the pitfalls of obsessive gambling, yet the book doesn't include as much gambling-specific descriptions as you might expect, or want. Rather, the book tends to focus on more of the psychological and familial events that exacerbated the brothers' gambling behavior. The is more an examination of how they came to be compulsive gamblers, instead of an in-depth examination of the actual gambling and the ramifications of gambling on their lives and families. The wives always appear only briefly in the background, and while you understand they are definitely *not* fans of the gambling, the authors never delve into the issues the gambling raised in their families (i.e. was there ever a problem with groceries, the kids' school tuition, the mortgage?).<BR>Over the course of two years, the Barthelme brothers lose nearly a quarter million dollars on the Mississippi riverboats. To top that off, they end up charged with attempting to defraud their favorite casino.<BR>The writing is fluid and insightful. Most books with multiple authors are somewhat jagged in the switching voices of the writers -- yet that is not the case here. The brothers write with a unified voice, and their experience as published authors is very apparent in their writing technique. This background helps to make this a more accessible non-fiction book to read. I rarely read non-fiction, and was wary about this one, and it was a very pleasant surprise to discover this is a deft and extremely well written book. Recommended.	2001-05-24
US	51920305	REK3MPAT9XJ1V	068817762X	216433293	Music for Torching	Books	4	1	1	N	N	American Beauty pales in comparison	What happens when you have one disillusioned couple with two young boys living in suburbia? What happens when said couple decides to ditch their barbecue and burn the house down? Literally. Then factor in similarly disillusioned and unhappy neighbors, and what happens when they all interact. The result is the startingly good book, &quot;Music for Torching.&quot; <br />Homes writes a strong novel of the underbelly of American suburbia, and reveals the possible facets of the people you sit next to while commuting to work. The writing is especially strong because it does not glamourise the adult's decisions, nor does Homes present the characters as ones you should invest all your empathy in. The quirks invested in all the characters (from a wife's lesbian leanings, to the old man reading dirty magazines, to a young mistress who speaks only in questions) make them tangible and very engrossing, yet not bothersome to give your time to.<br />While the movie &quot;American Beauty&quot; was redeemed by its hopefulness of good intentions and stylized depiction of middle-class suburbia, &quot;Music for Torching&quot; does not provide an ending of 'everything is going to work out OK' or of the parents realizing the errors of their behavior only to put their life on the straight and narrow.<br />This is an engrossing portrait of the flipside of the vanilla portrayals of nice soccer moms, hardworking yet good-natured dads, and appropriately overachieving kids. While this is not an uplifting book, you may feel somewhat off-kilter when you realize these characters could be your neighbors.	2001-05-09
US	51920305	R182BVUF92QLVD	0385501501	286787770	The Street	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Storyline falters	In what almost seems a slight fictionalization of a handful of today's top dot-coms, &quot;The Street&quot; doesn't consistently feel like a novel. There is quite a bit of detail as to the financial aspects of launching an IPO, and the roller-coaster ride that entails, but much of the writing felt like sheer exposition of 'let me explain how much I know about the &quot;new economy&quot;.' This shifting of focus from story to economics is forced, and causes this book to read like non-fiction (something I did not want from this book). <br />The base storyline is great -- a financial guru decides to start his own dot com, after seeing the wealth of the dot coms he launches the IPOs for. And that the company, Artemis-5.com, has no tangible product, is entertaining. While entertaining and whimsical, to believe that Hanley could snag top notch board members without revealing his business plan is utterly unbelievable. Of course, life is only so good for Hanley until the SEC starts poking around. The ending to the book is where the only real suspense exists. For a book billed as a Mystery/Thriller, there isn't much mystery or thrill to learning the ins and outs of Wall Street finance.<br />This story is based so clearly on existing dot-coms (in particular: Yahoo, AOL, Amazon) and their executives, that to stray from the possible to the improbable doesn't work.  Gruenwald relies too much on financial fact and successful dot-coms, instead of suspensful creativity, to create &quot;The Street.&quot;	2001-05-09
US	51920305	R2QZFIEFTV3T7X	0374252807	34228653	The Rules of Engagement	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Reminiscent of Kundera	In &quot;The Rules of Engagement&quot;, Catherine Bush creates a near flawless meditation of the nature of war and the nature of love. Arcadia Hearne, the main character, flees from Canada (and two lovers), then emigrates to England, where she excels at hiding from the past, allowing only her sister and parents sporadic contact. <br />Over the course of this novel, Arcadia has to come to terms with acts of agression in both her personal life (a duel is fought over her) and in her professional life (Arcadia works for the Centre for War Studies). She also comes in to contact with a group which facilitates escapes for African refugees. As she aids in facilitating these refugees' flight, Arcadia is compelled to face her demons, and return to Canada for the first time since her departure a decade previously. <br />Bush is a masterful writer, with insights and meditations of both love and war which are reminiscent of Milan Kundera's &quot;The Unbearable Lightness of Being&quot; and &quot;Immortality.&quot; While the correlation between war and love is present, Bush is skillful in not abusing the power of the metaphor through overuse or heavy-handedness. Overall, the writing is fresh and intelligent. The story is utterly believable, and Arcadia Hearne is an incredible character. Through Arcadia's quirks, and the idiosyncracies of the people in her life, these people come to life in their own unique way. <br />This is an incredibly intelligent novel, and a highly enjoyable read. If you like Milan Kundera's early novels, you will definitely enjoy &quot;The Rules of Engagement.&quot;	2001-04-24
US	51920305	R3RVO945TKAPZ7	0375704760	609497079	The Houdini Girl: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Superb story	At the onset of this novel, Red meets Rosa, and promptly falls for her. The seduction begins with a simple magic trick -- and the deception inherent in magic becomes indicative of the year they spend together.<br />With the death of Rosa, Red comes to find much of his girlfriend's life was an illusion. He commmences a journey to unfurl the mystery of Rosa, which takes him to Amsterdam's seedy Red Light district, and only creates more difficult to answer questions. It is difficult for him to locate information on Rosa, and what he discovers only makes matters more perplexing.<br />Bedford is a gifted writer, and he masterfully tells this tale of smoke and mirrors. Most chapters begin with an diary entry written by Rosa, and they are exceptionally well written and provide incredible first person insight into Rosa's character and personal circumstances. Unlike other writers who use the same tone for multiple characters, Bedford skillfully creates very different voices for each of the characters in this novel.<br />This story is a delicious combination of detective novel, love story, magic and brilliant writing. Satisfying and recommended.	2001-04-17
US	51920305	ROZD2AL99N2BF	0060956496	776279781	Layover	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Deft and insightful	Writing about grief and sexually taboo behavior often devolves into self-pity and the mundane. &quot;Layover&quot; fortunately breaks this all too familiar style. The writing is fresh and crisp, with unique insights to the central character's mind and motivations.  The author avoids cliches about Claire's motivations, and allows Claire to think clearly. One of the most refreshing aspects of this book, is Claire is able to see through people to their core personality, including her own. In doing this, she is able to cut through the superficial BS other people present. And she doesn't spare herself when doing this -- she recognizes aspects of her personality which are BS, acknowledges them, and gets past it.<br />Another strength of the novel is the author's ability to temper the main themes with lesser ones. For example, the intricate details of hotel security (and lack of it), and how she manages to successfully &quot;squat&quot; in them; and her obesession with finding quality swimming pools. She's done her research, and it shows -- providing an amusing and interesting counterpoint to the more serious main plot.<br />While the ending isn't terribly suprising, it is a nice touch to an endearing and moving novel. Highly recommended.	2001-04-12
US	51920305	R280FZR3QAI27I	0380806576	827347608	Veronica	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Magical and entertaining	The use of black and white magic pervades this entire novel. Magic of an ancient Tibetan variety, which includes such feats as time travel and invisibility. This is not sleight of hand or magic in the &quot;watch the magician pull the rabbit from the hat&quot; variety. Often, the reader will wonder whether a hallucination or spell is in effect.<br />This is lyrical writing, and NH's start as a poet is greatly evident in the descriptions and details of this novel. While common cliches are occasionally used, as one reviewer pointed out, they serve to ground the fantastical nature of the story.<br />I read &quot;A Trip to the Stars&quot; before &quot;Veronica,&quot; and these two novels share similar themes in magic and (to a small extent) stargazing. If you enjoy &quot;Veronica&quot; you must also read &quot;A Trip to the Stars,&quot; which is infinitely satisfying and 10 times the story &quot;Veronica&quot; is.	2001-04-06
US	51920305	R2J1Z71MAVWM0C	0812991680	854538172	Because She Is Beautiful: A Novel	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Incomplete and unsatisfying	In &quot;Because She is Beautiful,&quot; the reader is expected to fill in the gaps in character motivation. Instead of creating an emotionally rich story, it is emotionally vacant.<br />It is never clear how Kim Reilly feels about her affair with a married man -- because the writing only provides the shallowest of descriptions. There is no meat to the inner workings of the character's minds. This is especially true in the final section, when she makes a decision to reclaim her life. This is a section where in-depth inward speculation would speak volumes. Unfortunately, it is absent.<br />It also is unreasonable that Kim Reilly could absorb the how-tos of how to live and how to behave as an upper-class person. Half-way through the book, she is so knowledgable about wine and sending gifts and decorating, I couldn't believe it. She wasn't shown [in the beginning childhood section] as being either a chameleon or exceptionally smart, a requirement I feel is necessary when watching a character make such a dramatic shift in their life and lifestyle. <br />In short, this book only skirts the depths of character motivation, and the story line isn't original enough or unique enough to carry the novel.	2001-03-29
US	51920305	R2EVIHF956VFS5	0743203305	419693603	A Trip To The Stars: A Novel	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Superb storytelling and enchanting story	In Nicholas Christopher's latest novel, we have storytelling at its best. Layers of plots and sub-plots weave this magical story together, and take the reader on an incredible journey.<br />NH's writing style is gifted and the themes in A Trip to The Stars are also compelling. This book is written in the most accessible style of magical realism I have ever encountered. Many of the stories of the different characters mirror those of the person missing from their life. This technique doesn't seem forced, and only reinforces the strong feeling that fate controls your destiny, and that even if a twist of fate seemingly alters your course, you really will end up with the right people and doing that which is predestined for you.<br />The characters populating this novel are intriguing and believable (although to believe most of them live under one roof maybe pushes the envelope). These are the sort of people you wish you could dine with every night, just to listen to their stories, and hope a fraction of their incredible intelligence will stay with you. As each resident has 'lost' a piece of their life, they are all inextricably linked to one another, and possess pivotal answers for questions which are never asked of them.<br />This is by the far one of the best five books I've read in the past year (Several Deceptions by Jane Stevenson is another). This is strong and thoughtful writing, and I eagerly await reading his other novels.	2001-03-21
US	51920305	R3GY8EWH3YDEMW	0156012014	220950434	The Sopranos: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Engaging and entertaining	Wow. The girls in The Sopranos are both wild and endearing. The author handles their exploits in a masterful way -- the reader understands what they are doing is plausible, even though you wouldn't think these girls are just any Scottish girls you might meet. They are all well-rounded and satisfying characters -- and whether they're screaming obscenities in a McDonald's bathroom or prowling for men or discussing sexual topics -- you will be rooting for their success. You will nearly forget the real event which brings them to the big city, and believe they are there for no other reason than to fulfill their own desires.<br />This book is screaming to be made into a movie. While it doesn't read like a screenplay, the characters and events are so vivid it seems cruel to not show this story visually.<br />The writing takes a bit of getting used to (unless you can automatically adjust to Scottish slang and [Scottish]-phonetically spelled words), you'll find yourself reading this with a Scottish narrating voice in no time. Once you become accustomed to the language, this is quite a quick and highly enjoyable read.	2001-03-20
US	51920305	R2RILWMBYU55U4	0805066012	35840518	I Like Being Killed: Stories	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not quite there	While there are moments in several of the stories where the reader will say 'yes!' or 'that's what I've been trying to articulate,' these moments do not make a satisfying book.<br />The stories are interesting studies of men in bad circumstances. However, they run much too long to hold the reader's attention without interruption. The plights are notable, but the characters lack qualities that allow you to empathize with them. You find yourself wondering why the author didn't allow something good to happen (by luck or by sheer force of will on the part of the character) to prevent some of the stories from having whiny lead characters. I read this book on the bus, and often found myself becoming more interested in freeway traffic than the stories.<br />After reading this book, reading additional titles by this author is not high on my priority list.	2001-03-16
US	51920305	R2X6F1N2A6E7YZ	0446675482	649812238	Getting to the Good Part	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dynamic	This is a fantastic book! I was completely swept away by the characters and storyline. Files is a dynamic writer, and can expertly spin a story. I started reading this book one night, and was pulled into the story so deeply, I finished it the next night in one sitting.<br />I was very impressed with Files' characterizations -- both of Reesey and Misty, and also of their friendship. Much of the time, I felt as if they were in the room with me telling me the story. I also liked that while Reesey can be flaky and self-centered, she is fairly smart and responsible.<br />Also impressive is Files' ability to dole out the correct amount of information consistently. As the story begins, we hear quite a bit of Reesey and her struggle to land an off-Broadway show as a dancer.  Then, as the story progresses, Files almost imperceptibly shifts away from the stage, and onto Reesey's interpersonal relationships. Very subtle and masterful of Files.<br />I'm definitely going to check out Files' other books, and keep an eye out for new ones.	2000-01-22
US	51920305	R1YJYOH0XG1EXD	067088300X	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good stories, but lacks staying power	While there are moments of sheer brilliance in this collection of linked stories, there weren't enough tangible details for me to really *feel* these stories. The details included are good, but do not possess the  inherent uniqueness necessary for this book to possess a real staying  power. I read this book four days ago, and only two of the stories have  really stayed with me. &quot;A Suburban Girl's Worst Nightmare&quot; will  make you pause, and it is by far the best story in the collection. The  namesake story is close at ASGWN's heels, and is extremely clever and  witty. <br />All in all, this is a good first collection, and it will be  interesting to see what Banks does next. But I'd still recommend waiting  for the paperback.	1999-06-17
