US	51927038	R3I807SXLVB0RT	0312289723	1827617	Ten Big Ones (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	0	4	N	Y	Still loved it even if...	Well, welcome back to Trenton.  Stephanie's back and the gang is with her including Lula, Grandma Mazur, Ranger, Morelli and the rest.  Stephanie finds herself this time in the middle or number 1 with a bullet on a Gangs most wanted list.  The story begins with the usual humor and story set up for Stephanie, car burning, Lula shooting a guys bicycle tire causing him to start said fire.  I still love Janet's writing style it's quick witted and the story flies by with very wild vivid imagery.<br />This story was also laugh out loud funny!  One scene with Stephanie visiting a woman who does phone sex for a living had me bursting with laughter!<br />My only problem with this volume of the series is that the hype surrounding the book gave me new hope for long suffering third wheel and MR. HOTTIE Ranger only to once again feel left cold as the story went on with him, which was short he is briefly in the beginning of the book and towards the end but the middle has him gone away on business.  Without giving anything away about him and Stephanie I will say that with this volume I felt that we will be seeing less and less of him in the future.<br />The fantastic tension between him and Stephanie is still there, but it seems as if a choice has been made which way the story will go and there hasn't been an elegant way for him to exit the story yet.<br />Don't get upset, as I said I'm not giving anything away that's simply what it seems like is happening to me from books 9 and now 10.<br />Morelli is also in this episode and once again he's looking for Stephanie to step out of the line of fire and quit being a bounty hunter.<br />Those guys aside the story was well done in Janet's traditional style with lots of laughs and stand out scenes.  I'm not sure how many more she will write, but I'm anxious for the next one and highly recommend Ten Big Ones!  It's a perfect summer read!<br />Also, the unabridged audio version read by C.J. Critt for Recorded books is even funnier with her amazing voice talent it adds a lot of flare to the story!her amazing voice talent it adds a lot of flare to the story!	2004-06-30
US	51927038	R3NGYBP6WVL87V	0525947981	608087708	Bubbles a Broad	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyed it!	Everyone told you of the story in previous reviews so I will tell you about what I thought of it.  When I began this was my first Bubbles book and having been an avid Janet Evanovich fan for years I thought the story was too similar for my taste.  The wacky nature of the tale seemed like a sister series.  However, I soon discovered that wasn't the case Bubbles was fun and funny! I was very wrong. Bubbles is outrageous and flamboyant in a fantastic way and her mother is absolutely hilarious.  This book has me now addicted to another author Sarah Strohmeyer.  The characters are well written and pop off the page, which is what I adore in fun books.  To be able to see the characters in your head in these situation requires skill and Sarah Strohmeyer has both the talent and skill to do this.<br />From the beginning I couldn't wait for what was next!  I can't recommend this series enough.  Now, I can't wait to get the others and get on the band wagon of waiting for each new volume in Bubbles series.<br />A comment now to the publishers &quot;Get them on Audio by Recorded Books now&quot;  preferably read by C.J. Critt.  I would love to be able to listen to Bubbles in the car or while doing things around the house!!<br />Can't wait for the next ride with Bubbles!	2004-06-20
US	51927038	R38EVUG2BUGG8T	0380812029	66659014	All About Passion	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Love the Cynster Men	Stephanie Laurens has created a wonderful series of great dashing male characters with her Bar Cynster series.  This is book 7 in the series.<br />All About Passions is a wonderful addition to the series.  Gyles Rawlings (a cousin this time) is the handsome Earl of Chillingworth but he is determined to not be a member of the Bar Cynster.  He's watched all his friends fall to a fate he finds worse than anything \\"LOVE\\".  Refusing to let that emotion overtake his destiny he decides to arrange a marriage based on property and bloodlines rather than love.  Luckily for him he discovers that the heiress to a piece of property that he desires is just what he is looking for.  He sends his man to investigate the girl to discover she is of breeding and sounds like the meek woman he needs to give him an heir and a spare.  Francesca Rawlings is just what he's looking for, but when he stumbles upon a wild gypsy girl at the estate he finds himself drawn to her even though he has offered for her Francesca.  Unlike Frannie the blond, fair creature he sees sitting in the garden this gypsy stirs other things in him.<br />He wants nothing more than to marry Frannie and at the same time wants to fulfill his desires with the wild dark haired beauty who stirs his passions.  On his wedding day though he finds a very big surprise when the woman he sees at the alter isn't the mild mannered Frannie, but his gypsy Francesca Rawlings. Gyles had no idea that there were two Frannie's or Francesca's as he soon finds out.  How can he ever explain to Francesca that while he was trying to seduce her he'd planned on marrying her cousin?<br />Stephanie does a wonderful job of creating a very well written romantic story.  This is my favorite Bar Cynster story so far.  The scenes between Francesca and Gyles are electric and very erotic.  Their passion erupts from the pages.  Add in the discovery that someone is trying to kill one of them and the search for a killer only adds to a wonderful romantic novel.<br />This story doesn't end at the bedroom door so if you don't like spice in your romance then this isn't the book for you.  If you do, well, Gyles is a very wonderful leading man and the chemisty between him and the fiery Francesca/His Gypsy is wonderful.<br />Beyond the romance/erotic/seductive storyline is a tale of family bloodlines, madness and a wonderful family of Rakes who think LOVE is a dirty word until they find it for themselves.<br />Stephanie Laurens keeps continuing to write about a wonderful family of men with great strong female counterparts.  Add in a little mystery and you've got a fun romance with lots of passion.<br />A perfect way to spend time with a book.<br />5 Stars for the Bar Cynster and hopes that Stephanie Laurens will find even more family members to add to the series!<br />You must read the others as well Devil's Bride, A Rake's Vow, Scandal's Bride, A Rogue's Proposal, A Secret Love, All About Love and the upcoming The Promise in a Kiss: A Cynster Christmas Novel.l.  <br />This story doesn't end at the bedroom door so if you don't like spice in your romance then this isn't the book for you.  If you do, well, Gyles is a very wonderful leading man and the chemisty between him and the fiery Francesca/His Gypsy is wonderful.<br />Beyond the romance/erotic/seductive storyline is a tale of family bloodlines, madness and a wonderful family of Rakes who think LOVE is a dirty word until they find it for themselves.  <br />Stephanie Laurens keeps continuing to write about a wonderful family of men with great strong female counterparts.   Add in a little mystery and you've got a fun romance with lots of passion.<BR>A perfect way to spend time with a book.  <br />5 Stars for the Bar Cynster and hopes that Stephanie Laurens will find even more family members to add to the series!<br />You must read the others as well Devil's Bride, A Rake's Vow, Scandal's Bride, A Rogue's Proposal, A Secret Love, All About Love and the upcoming The Promise in a Kiss: A Cynster Christmas Novel.	2004-01-08
US	51927038	REQIGMTY4QNSW	1562013785	986154797	The Governess	Books	2	19	20	N	N	Too much left out with too much left in	This story is about Miss Hunnicut, a young woman who was engaged to a man who seduced her during a carriage ride only to use it against her so he didn't have to marry her.<br />In an effort to at least get some sort of life she agrees to a job as a Governess for a couple on an island in Scotland.<br />Maybe I didn't read the description of this book well enough, but this book seemed like it had a good premise as an erotic story.  What I found upon further inspection was a book that could have been much more than it was.  If you read erotic fiction strictly for the sex portion of it then this is the book for you.  There is very little of a story here.<br />This book looks like it might have been a much longer story (at least that's what I hope) and someone hacked it to pieces only leaving the various ways this couple takes advantage of Miss Hunnicut.  It doesn't even come across as a good S&M book (Try the Story of O instead of this book).  I know it was fiction but this story is too far fetched.  Miss Hunnicut falls in love with the Lord of the manner so her attraction and desire to please him are likely.  However, the fact that in the time period this is set in to have a couple living on a secluded island with a group of friends that come around for nothing more than taking advantage of this one girl seemed to far off.<br />This story was nothing but one sex scene after another and they became tedious after awhile because it's the same thing only with another person.<br />Add in the fact that the \\"Master of the House\\" has this power over her and it doesn't make me think of Dom/Sub but just poor editing.  This story had promise if they'd added more story to it.<br />This book seemed too hacked together for my taste.<br />I recommend books by Robin Schone, Thea Devine, Bertrice Small, or books in the Black lace series over this one.	2004-01-05
US	51927038	R1Q1RSP6I14B6B	0761543279	622839257	The Sims Bustin' Out (Prima's Official Strategy Guide)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Must have for those who aren't TopNotch Players	If you are anything like me and aren't an ace with Video games but adore the Sims.  Then you'll want this guide.  This game has a lot of different goals you must attain to gain items/clothes/actions.  Sometimes those things determine your progress in the game.  As in certain goals allow you to go to different places Club/Gym/Etc.<br />This guide tells you a lot of the information about the game itself even with information on how other Sims react to your actions.  I play this game in stages and it's nice to have this guide to help me discover hidden items that you are supposed to search for or who to talk to accomplish certain things.<br />This book had enough information to help me learn the best way for me to play  the game.<br />Now for the only thing I found lacking was a bit more description or hints for what is best to have or sell once you've completed skills, etc.<br />There are certain things that once you acquire them you'll want to have in all of the houses such as the Miss Gyrotic, the Gourmet stove and Hellagraphix (all items that have to be unlocked).  Once you have these items it makes pleasing your Sims much easier.<br />Luckily this guide tells you were those items are and how to gain them.<br />For a game guide I find this one very thorough and I'm glad I have it to go with my game.<br />I highly recommend it if you own or are planning on buying the Sims Bustin out game.  Also even if you just rent it it's worth the $12 for the book	2004-01-05
US	51927038	R2OZHA66NIIUCH	0758204434	399804889	Almost A Gentleman	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Loss, hidden desires and hope	This story begins with Phoebe Claringworth who having been abused by her husband and although is death should be a relief. It comes at even greater cost to Phoebe the loss of her  3 year old son and an unborn child.  Distraught over the loss of her children she is consoled by her best friend Lady Kate Beverredge.<br />Phoebe and Kate have been friends for years.  Kate born into a title but through a childhood illness left less than perfect in the eyes of many.  Phoebe stood up for her and their friendship began.  However, she learned there was more to her friend.  Phoebe was born a beauty although untitled and to the Claringworth's she appeared to be the perfect wife because she was so beautiful.  Her husband didn't appreciate the mind that Phoebe had.  It made him insecure and feel small so the abuse began. In an effort to prove his superiority over Phoebe he raced their carriage causing the accident that killed him and the children.  Phoebe heart broken and refusing to allow another man to be in control over her or to be at the mercy of her own looks cuts off all of her hair.<br />The story picks up 3 years later with Philip \\"Phizz\\" Marston the epitomy of grace and style, but also the man who makes things happen.  Those of the Ton want to join his club only Phizz makes nothing easy.  Turning down man after man for anything from his shoes, mistress, the cut of his suit has Phizz on the short end of many a man's list.  And someone wants Phizz dead.  Threatening notes have been coming to Phizz on regular basis, but they can't be real no one would want to harm someone over such matters.<br />Enter David Hervey, Earl of Linseley,  An aristocrat farmer who stands for the people.  David sees Phizz and can't take his eyes off of him.  Convinced there is something wrong with him he begins to question his own reasoning.  Why would he be attracted to another man, he'd never had those feelings before.  David had a very comfortable marriage of friendship and caring, but not true love.  His wife and he had a son and a passion they enjoyed sharing on occasion.  Since her death though he sought comfort in prostitutes and debauched himself regularly.  When he sees Phizz though he can't imagine anyone else.  Confused and unsure he is shocked and elated to discover that Phizz isn't a man but a woman, a very attractive woman and she's been masquerading as Phizz for reasons he doesn't understand yet.  What he does know is that someone is threatening Phizz who although he doesn't know her name is actually Phoebe.  I'm not giving away anything by telling you that much.<br />In order to find out who is threatening Phizz/Phoebe, David and she devise a plan for the enemies of Phizz to seek David out for possible alliances against Phizz.<br />I can't tell you more because I don't want to give away more than I already have.  I read a random scattering of books from no specific genre, but I have found that I love the Brava/Kensington books set of Historical fiction they are usually erotic romances some set in historical times.  Almost A Gentleman was a wonderful surprise for me because it has the story of a woman who is distraught not over the loss of the husband but her children.  Rather than put up with societies mask and having to live as a polite woman who can do nothing.  She chose to live her life as a man.  She'd experience many of the things as a man in hopes that she could fill the void left by the loss.  It's actually very heart breaking when I think back.  Phoebe tries to deny all of those things that she thinks will hurt too much.  No children, no love, no commitment.  Still the hurt is there though and nothing can take away her pain.<br />The friendship of Kate and Phoebe was wonderful they were like pieces of a puzzle and each of them filled the void for the other.  As Phizz, Phoebe played an adoring suitor to Kate offering her friend entry into the world she'd avoided for so long.<br />David and Phoebe have a magical attraction and chemistry that no matter what is brought out and very hot too!<br />I loved this book!  Can't wait to read it again.  Now, I'll be looking for other works by this author.hemistry that no matter what is brought out and very hot too!  <br />I loved this book!  Can't wait to read it again.  Now, I'll be looking for other works by this author.	2004-01-04
US	51927038	R20A5IG52P09MX	0743412753	147232801	No Way Out	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Liked it even if...	I'll begin by saying that like many of the other reviewers I found part of the story very hard to believe.  However, I did enjoy the book.<br />The parts I had the hardest time with were with Julia Talbot (2nd grade teacher and highly educated) she is a favored teacher among her students.  However, she is over emotional when it comes to one child in particular Brian (the mayor's son).  I understand a caring teacher that wasn't the problem.  The problem was that she was overly involved with this child before his problems ever surfaced.  He wasn't from a broken home or anything so her attachment to him seemed odd.  He seemed more like he should have been her child rather than the Mayor and his wife.  Perhaps that is what I was supposed to take from the story I don't know.<br />Then add in that we are told several times that she was educated very well and yet she is so naive.  The boy is having problems so she automatically assumes he's being abused.  This aspect of the story was way overblown.  I don't want to give away the story so I won't add much about what the storyline is about simply that his family is going through some things and the boy doesn't understand.  I do understand that she would be concerned she's his teacher and she notices changes.<br />However, she's a teacher!  She had to have more than one child in her class and this boy is the only one she's worried about.  She starts asking questions, etc about what is going on at home.  (Secrets of course)  I believe she tells the Mayor's brother Connor Stratford later in the story she is a psychologist and yet she is very high strung about one boy.  She's investigating what is going on with his family because she's worried about him.  At no time did I ever feel that she was thinking as an educator or even a psychologist would.  Had I not known otherwise I would have thought she was his mother/aunt/sister because of the concern she showed over him.<br />Now my next issue is Connor Stratford the attractive corporate mogul brother of the Mayor Steven Stratford.  He swoops into town to keep the problems the parents are hiding from the boy and Julia (even though they really are none of her business) under the rug via seducing her.  She falls right in after a little banter.  This woman who is highly educated and is supposedly looking after the best interest of the child is allowing him to sidetrack her at every chance he has.  The reason I even mention it is that she is so set on finding out who is \\"Abusing\\" Brian.  I found Julia very annoying and that she was jumping the gun about Brian.<br />Now for the reason I gave the book 5 stars.  The story is the story within about Mayor Steven Stratford, his wife Nancy, Brian and their family legacy of politics that Steven/Connor's father wants to lead Steven into.  The underlying story is what takes the book on and allows it to fly out of the dull over dramatic effects of Julia searching for who's hurting Brian.  Brian's having trouble because tensions at home have him misunderstanding what is going on.  The problems are those caused by his father.  Steven's demons are coming back to haunt him and that's where the story is.  This part of the story was what I loved.  Steven is a weak charcter who has made a lot of mistakes that are about more than money.  Even though I didn't like him I could understand him better than Julia.<br />Julia and Connor have great passion together in the bedroom, but the rest of their story doesn't really come together for me until later.  Which is why I ended up really liking the book.  The ending was a bit Mary Poppins with some erotic moments thrown in.<br />Overall though the best advice I can give in relation to this book is to suspend your beliefs of what you'd do in that situation and try to hold out for the juicy part of the story when the secrets begin emerging.<br />What the book gives you is an intricate story(once you get past Julia's obsession/mothering over Brian since he's not her kid).  There are plenty of twists and turns to keep you guessing who did what and when.<br />I still give it 5 stars because it kept me entertained whether I was screaming at Julia or wondering what would happen next:)There are plenty of twists and turns to keep you guessing who did what and when.<br />I still give it 5 stars because it kept me entertained whether I was screaming at Julia or wondering what would happen next:)	2004-01-02
US	51927038	RFRMELWOZLGSK	0394587987	902733625	Stars	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Read Butterfly first to get the full effect	You must read Butterfly before reading Stars. If you read this one first you are missing out on a lot!  This story continues with the Beverly and Danny story/war.  From Butterfly she was bent on revenge for Danny talking her into an abortion and getting her involved in being a prostitute at a young age.  I can't tell you too much about what happened to them because it is an important element of this story.  This is the story of Phillipa the twin sister of Beverly (unknown to Beverly) who is searching for information on her twin.<br />Phillipa once overweight has transformed herself and is running a successful Diet center.  After hiring a private detective she is on the trail of finding out what happened to her twin.  However, Danny Mackay is bent on his own revenge and seeing Phillipa makes him think she's Beverly.<br />Ms. Harvey does it again with Stars.  She creates a wonderfully intricate story that jumps off the page.  The sex is graphic so if you don't like that be warned that she doesn't close bedroom doors.  This is a wonderful story to get wrapped up again and a great conclusion to the Butterfly book.<br />I was so glad to find out she'd written a sequel and was equally happy after reading it.  Like Butterfly I read this book in one night and then reread it.  The characters are well written and come so alive through Ms. Harvey's story.<br />I love the book and even if she decided to add another twist and come up with a 3rd book I'd eagerly read it even though Stars closed the story.<br />5 Stars and more for both books!  LOVE IT!	2004-01-01
US	51927038	R3KO489HFE5IDI	0380708353	508683285	Butterfly	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Still on my Favorites List!	Butterfly was recommended by a friend like so many others that have read it.  This was one of the best suggestions a friend could have offered to me.  This book has a very interesting story about Beverly Highland who runs away from an abusive home at 14 only to be taken in by a man who uses her just as much by getting her into prostution.  Beverly is a very well fleshed out character and she jumps off the page.<br />She loses that piece of childhood that happens when a child suffers at the hands of another.  Then when she begins to trust the newest man in her life Danny Mackay he turns her into a prostitute and also makes her have an abortion.  What else can a girl do but decide to plot her revenge against the man who wronged her.<br />Beverly changes her life by completely making herself over and building a successful very exclusive Brothel for women's needs of her own.  She decides it will be the best and her clients the highest powerful connections and beauty.  At Butterfly you must be hand picked.  You have to know a member to become a member.  At Butterfly a woman can fullfill all her fantasies.  Among the men of Butterfly are a masked burglar, a Confederate soldier, a Versailles courtier, a cowboy all of which are there to make your every dream come true.<br />Within Beverly's story is the story of Lawyer Jessica Franklin, Dr. Linda Markus and Trudie a builder.  They each come to Butterfly to fullfill their fantasy or to step out of their perfect/imperfect lives.<br />What Kathryn Harvey does with this story is draw you into each of the women in such an intricate web that you sit eagerly awaiting each new page.  There is an erotic aspect that you expect from a story with a Brothel involved, but it's not the true nature of the story.  The story is about women and their experiences and how lives are effected by things that happen to them.  Ms. Harvey is very talented.  I found myself flushed at times from the steam of this book and also had myself emotionally involved with the story even coming to tears at certain times.<br />This is what I look for in a story something that keeps me reading even after I know I should be in bed or doing something else.  I sat in my easy club chair on a cold evening and read this book through in one sitting.  And this isn't a small book.<br />After that I read it again.  Luckily I found out about this book after it had been on the market for several years.  Because there is a sequel Stars and you must read that after checking out this book.<br />All I have to say is even now this book pulls at me.  It's a perfect book to stay in and read until you finish.  Great story with heat to it.  The bedroom door doesn't close on this one but you probably knew that when I mentioned Brothel:)<br />If I could give this more than 5 stars I would!nally involved with the story even coming to tears at certain times.  <br />This is what I look for in a story something that keeps me reading even after I know I should be in bed or doing something else.  I sat in my easy club chair on a cold evening and read this book through in one sitting.  And this isn't a small book.  <BR>After that I read it again.  Luckily I found out about this book after it had been on the market for several years.  Because there is a sequel Stars and you must read that after checking out this book.  <br />All I have to say is even now this book pulls at me.  It's a perfect book to stay in and read until you finish.  Great story with heat to it.  The bedroom door doesn't close on this one but you probably knew that when I mentioned Brothel:)  <br />If I could give this more than 5 stars I would!	2004-01-01
US	51927038	R2GFOZI7B41Y7J	0380816113	122023999	A Seductive Offer	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Guilt, redemption, forgiveness	Lord Braven finds a woman drowning and it brings back memories.  He saves the woman only to discover himself having feelings he hasn't had in over a year for the rescued woman.  Could she be the key to his redemption?  Will his saving her save him?<br />Rachel Ashton's life is saved, but what kind of life is it?  Her current days are spent trying to keep an abusive stepfather from hurting her mother more than he already had and trying to find a way to get her a divorce without him finding out.<br />When Rachel discovers that not only has her Stepfather sold her into marriage, but into marriage with a man very much like him.  So she goes to Lord Braven for help.  His offer is to marry her.  Of course, it's just a marriage of convenience, but Lord Braven wants to save Rachel to hopefully rid the demons that torment his soul.  While Rachel only wants to save her mother.<br />The abusive stepfather and the complicated nature of the relationship between Rachel and Lord Braven offer up an interesting story.  There are some very dark moments of the story involving the abusive relationship and the lengths an abuser will go to.  There is also some humor in the story so it blends with together along with great chemistry between Lord Braven and Rachel.  They are both attracted to each other, but isn't this marriage simply for convenience?<br />I enjoyed this story much more than I thought I enjoy historical romances but many today are still rather bland in the love scene department.  Usually if you want to go past the bedroom door you have to search and ask for referrals from fellow readers.<br />This book has great heat and is very descriptive.  For romance readers who enjoy a good love scene this is one.  The book has great tension between the two lovers.  There are many scenes of build up before the big event.  This is what good romance books are to me.  They have story and the event is also as good as the story.<br />I look forward to reading more by this author.  As if I need another author to be hooked on, but happily I add her to the ever growing piles of faves on my list:)if I need another author to be hooked on, but happily I add her to the ever growing piles of faves on my list:)	2003-12-31
US	51927038	RA4DG3BY4FG0A	0758200846	855404492	Too Much Temptation	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Favorite Lori Foster Book so far:)	This was my first experience with Lori Foster (even though I discovered since this reading I had several books sitting unread with novellas she'd written in collection style books). I picked up Too Much Tempation at my local bookstore after reading the back cover. I am so thrilled I gave this book a chance.<br />This story is about Noah Harper (Gorgeous, rich and not exactly at the best place in his life romantically, you'll find that out in the book). After an sudden break up with his fiance he is currently enemy number one with his family for having broken the poor girls heart.  Problem is there is more to the story than Noah simply breaking her heart, but he remains the gentleman and take the full force of everyone's blame.  However, he's feeling jilted and sorry for himself.<br /> Now, enter Grace Jenkins (Plump, insecure in her appearance and totally in love with Noah Harper who she worships from afar). Grace is a fun character she knows what she wants, but at times doesn't go about it as she probably should. It's fantastic to find Grace, the non-typical female lead character she's plump as I mentioned and she knows it, I loved that I could relate to her. Her emotions of what someone who isn't a Size 2,4,6 considers when looking for love had me cheering her on! She's funny and her interactions with Noah and his half brother Ben (also gorgeous and single making me eager for the next book Never Too Much) had me laughing at times. After a drunken night ends up with Noah taking her to bed she's hesitant, but willing to see how far he'll take it.  Afterall, he is what she's dreamed of for so long.  Even if it's only temporary the feeling of being with him is more than she could have imagined.<br />This book is just what I was looking for in a romance with great heat. I couldn't wait to find out what would happen with Grace and Noah. Their chemistry was great and gave me the little emotional tugs a good romance can give it warms you up and lightens your day.<br /> Noah's brother Ben is sexy and so funny.  The scenes between the three of them together can at times be laugh out loud funny.  Grace is the girl I want to win!  She's always everyone's best friend and good girl, but with Noah she finally gets the chance to do all the things she only dreamed of before.  And Ben loves to flame the fires as he sees that green eyed monster in his brother when he's around Grace.  I loved Ben just as much as Noah.  These characters really leapt off the page for me and I found myself reading the book so quickly that the same night I finished it I began it again.<br />This would be a perfect book for them to turn into an audio book.  I'd love be able to listen to this book while driving or working around the house.  Maybe they'll do that someday, it would be worth it!<br /><br />And this book doesn't end at the bedroom door fade out scene, which I am happy to find along with a story I enjoyed. Noah and Grace have heat and Lori Foster does a great job of allowing us behind that door and making it sound wonderful.<br />Now, I'm hooked on Lori Foster I've read several more of her books since this reading. You also must read Never Too Much the sequel to this book.  Although, this one is my favorite.  Once you finish with Noah and Ben.  Check out the Winston Brothers books as well.  GO LORI GO!oah's brother Ben is sexy and so funny.  The scenes between the three of them together can at times be laugh out loud funny.  Grace is the girl I want to win!  She's always everyone's best friend and good girl, but with Noah she finally gets the chance to do all the things she only dreamed of before.  And Ben loves to flame the fires as he sees that green eyed monster in his brother when he's around Grace.  I loved Ben just as much as Noah.  These characters really leapt off the page for me and I found myself reading the book so quickly that the same night I finished it I began it again.  <br />This would be a perfect book for them to turn into an audio book.  I'd love be able to listen to this book while driving or working around the house.  Maybe they'll do that someday, it would be worth it!<BR> <br />And this book doesn't end at the bedroom door fade out scene, which I am happy to find along with a story I enjoyed. Noah and Grace have heat and Lori Foster does a great job of allowing us behind that door and making it sound wonderful.<br />Now, I'm hooked on Lori Foster I've read several more of her books since this reading. You also must read Never Too Much the sequel to this book.  Although, this one is my favorite.  Once you finish with Noah and Ben.  Check out the Winston Brothers books as well.  GO LORI GO!	2003-12-27
US	51927038	R1UQUM6IWAWI10	0352338008	887809641	A Gentleman's Wager (Black Lace)	Books	5	68	68	N	N	Be Warned these are Graphic and Explicit	I'll begin by saying this book was very sexually explicit.  The Black Lace series of books are erotic fiction, but I know there are some that will go into this thinking it's a traditional romance with a little more sex than normal.  In a way it is, A Gentleman's Wager is an erotic tale.<br />The story relates around Lady Bella Rushdale who finds her experiences with her groom becoming unsatisfying after discovering the new owner of her favorite tristing spot sunbathing naked.  From her perch she observes him amusing himself and decides she wants to seduce him or have him seduce her.  She finds herself attracted to the blond handsome landowner Lucerne Marlinscar.  Upon formal introduction she is invited for a lengthy stay with some other guests at his newly renovated property.<br />This Bella decides will be the perfect opportunity to put her plan into place with Lucerne.  Only to discover among the many other guests an attractive darkly handsome man Marquis (Vaughan) Pennerley also among the guests and with eyes for Lucerne as well.  Bella suspects something between the two men but wants to prove to the Marquis Vaughan that Lucerne will choose her.<br />A great battle of wills between Vaughan and Bella begins for the affections of Lucerne.  The tale is well written and you don't know who is a good or bad in the triangle.<br />Also, add in Louisa, Bella's friend who isn't experienced as her friend and isn't sure about the attentions being thrown her way by Vaughan as well as the man she's infatuated with Wakefield.<br />I don't want to give more away, but the story is wrought with intrigue and deception with so many twists and turns.  The love scenes/sex is very graphic, but also emotional and you feel the emotions of uncertainty/pain/pleasure/vulnerability of some of the cast of characters.<br />Just thinking of this as an Erotic book is an understatement because there is an underlying story of forbidden love and unrequited love and the lengths people will go to have their desires for another come true.<br />What I liked about this book is that you could easily remove the graphic scenes from the book (although they are well written) and still have a very interesting book.  I found myself concerned for the well beings of the characters and how the story would play out.  I enjoyed this book much more than I thought I would and am glad now that I bought it.<br />I hope Madelynne Ellis writes some more of this style of books.  She turned what could be a bodice ripper into an intriguing erotic story that was worth the read and my money.o to have their desires for another come true.<br />What I liked about this book is that you could easily remove the graphic scenes from the book (although they are well written) and still have a very interesting book.  I found myself concerned for the well beings of the characters and how the story would play out.  I enjoyed this book much more than I thought I would and am glad now that I bought it.  <br />I hope Madelynne Ellis writes some more of this style of books.  She turned what could be a bodice ripper into an intriguing erotic story that was worth the read and my money.	2003-12-26
US	51927038	R1N7E827OA6LCM	0821768417	795288565	Hot Blooded (Zebra Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hot Blooded has just that HEAT!	Lisa Jackson has created a hot and steamy book with Hot Blooded.<br />This story is about Dr. Samantha Leeds host of a late-night radio talk show.  Phone calls begin coming into her show and home from a mysterious man named John.  At the same time prostitutes are being murdered and she's got a new neighbor named Ty that she is extremely attracted to but unsure that she should trust.<br />Dr. Sam is thrown into a web of intrigue that includes a someone impersonating a girl from her past who died years before.  Could the prostitute murders and the phone calls all be related?  Is it possible that someone she knows is behind all of it?  Or is it just simply coincidence that the prostitutes that have been murdered were possibly dresses like Dr. Sam?  Don't try to guess because just when you think you've figured it out you are wrong.<br />This book is graphic so be warned that Lisa Jackson writes a very descriptive book.  The sex scenes are steamy and the scenes with the mysterious killer are very vivid.<br />I liked this book because of the way she has created a very intricate story along with so many twists and turns that actually put you in the shoes of Dr. Sam where you are wondering along with her who she should trust.  I found myself eagerly waiting what was to come next and like Dr. Sam I was thinking she shouldn't trust so and so.  I also found myself commenting on the variety of characters that are also part of the story from the neighbor who has quickly become part of Dr. Sam's life Ty Wheeler to the detectives investigating the prostitute murders and to the staff at the radio station.<br />Who should Dr. Sam trust?<br />Love this book and highly recommend it.  There were a few parts that I wish hadn't gone on for so long because the book is about 450 pages, but I understand why she made it that way.  The story is very tightly woven so there is a need for the length in the end.<br />I look forward to the other book by her Cold Blooded as well.	2003-12-22
US	51927038	R3J9IOIA6J8Q9Q	0892967803	332709812	Last Lessons of Summer	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Fabulous Stand Alone by Margaret Maron	Margaret Maron has created another great mystery that is NOT based on her wonderful Deborah Knott series.<br />Amy Steadman is the heir to a toy/childrens book empire left to her by her Grandmother(Francis Barbour.)  Amy is an artist and wants nothing to do with the business side of the company. However, since Amy's mother Maxi committed suicide when Amy was only 3 Francis was determined that Amy's father could run the company but the ownership would remain Amy's.<br />The company business has been run for over 30 years by Amy's father.  Now, he is talking of retirement and the step-brothers and half-sister that she's grown up with are showing some resentment for the years of knowing that she was the Heir to the vast empire they all had grown up with.<br />Amy's recent marriage is having problems and it's only adding to the pressure she's under.  Amy doesn't like confrontation so after her Grandmother's murder she's offered a large sum of money to sell the southern home her Grandmother inhabited in the later years of her life with her Grandfather in North Carolina.<br />Amy decides that she wants some answers not only to the death of Francis but of the secrets behind the suicide of her mother years before.  It's the perfect excuse for her to escape her problems and hopefully get some of the answers that everyone has made a point of making her forget over these years.  Afraid of sending movers to go through boxes of personal items she heads off to clear the house out herself.<br />She arrives to a family full of secrets and a murderer still out there and now threatening Amy.<br />Her half-sister Beth runs away from her own problems with the family and shows up on her doorstep with tales of woe of her own.  For two sisters who have never been close it's a learning experience and search for a killer.<br />Around every corner you'll be wondering who could it be and does it tie to her mother's suicide?  Just when you think you've figured it out you're wrong.  The emotions of Amy, a woman who has wondered for so much of her life how her mother could have killed herself and how her family erased her mother from her memory Leaving Amy with no answers is emotional.<br /> I felt for her and was along for the ride wanting them to tell her what they knew and why no one spoke of Maxi.<br />This story is wonderfully written.  It made me love some of the characters and hate others.  I couldn't wait for the next page.  I wanted to know what happened but I didn't cheat.  It's that kind of book.emotions of Amy, a woman who has wondered for so much of her life how her mother could have killed herself and how her family erased her mother from her memory Leaving Amy with no answers is emotional. <br /> I felt for her and was along for the ride wanting them to tell her what they knew and why no one spoke of Maxi.  <br />This story is wonderfully written.  It made me love some of the characters and hate others.  I couldn't wait for the next page.  I wanted to know what happened but I didn't cheat.  It's that kind of book.	2003-12-21
US	51927038	R5DILYBKR5B41	0312303475	783654043	Brilliant (Kick Keswick Mysteries #1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	5 Stars with some complaints but overall 5 stars	I give this book 5 stars for the story itself.  Kick Keswick as a woman who escaped to London as a teenager to start a new life after a baby she gave up for adoption, a mother who cared less and a juvenile record she needed to escape from.  She winds up the protege of Sir Cramner owner of a well established Auction house.  After his death the company is taken over by Owen Brace a flashy business man who she helps make over in order to fit in better in the upper class English society that most of their business is done in.  In her spare time though she's a well trained and knowledgable jewelry thief.  This was a great part of her character.<br />From the beginning of the story she is tough and does what she has to so she can get by. Perhaps that is why she kind of blended into the the side lines at her job with Ballantine Auction house.<br />She's very talented in art, jewelry and antique appraising, so I didn't understand the fact that a woman who had been working for years under the owners training would still be an Executive Assistant.  In one scene in particular she describes that she's the one that makes sure everything is locked up and another time one of the Vice Presidents is asking her where his coffee/tea is.  I didn't understand this part of the story considering she is such a dynamic character to begin with.  It bugged me.  As I said maybe I missed something, but I don't know that bothered me.  She's worked at this company since she was about 18 and although she does make sure everything is running well one of the men was asking her that seemed highly unlikely in today's world.<br />However, I found the story interesting and fun.  I wasn't sure that I'd like the story it took me a little while to get into it, but when I did I was eager to know what would happen next.<br />I don't want to give too much away, so I'll just tell you that I enjoyed it.  It's a nice change of pace for a female lead to be a jewelry thief and the heroine in the story.  I loved the ending too.:)<br />I loved the first person account she gave also so it's like you are reading her diary or talking to her over brunch.<br />It's got a few flaws but I still give it 5 stars because it kept me involved and I will recommend it to friends and family.the ending too.:)  <br />I loved the first person account she gave also so it's like you are reading her diary or talking to her over brunch. <br />It's got a few flaws but I still give it 5 stars because it kept me involved and I will recommend it to friends and family.	2003-12-18
US	51927038	R39BD2LSFOU533	0440212561	983256815	Outlander	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	I almost let this one slip by.	Enough people have told you the story about this book, so I will tell you my experience.<br />Standing in line at my local library one of the library clerks was talking to me about books.  I had a huge stack of audio books that I listened to at work.  She went and pulled from the stacks &quot;Outlander&quot; By Diana Gabaldon.  The audio version unabridged of this book was huge!  It was like 20 tapes or more.  I love a good book, but that seemed like too much of a commitment to one audio version of a book to me.  Politely I took the suggestion and figured I'd just return it later.  It turned out that the batch of books I was picking up all had one problem or another (Broke tape, defective, whatever).  So I carried Outlander in my bag to work.  After listening to talk radio, cd's, etc. I finally put in tape one.  Still I wasn't convinced I could sit through this for the length of the book.  After side one I was hooked!  Why on earth had I not heard of this book?  This story is so well written and puts you right in the shoes of Claire.  The story is so involved with so much rich history and such a dramatic storyline I was carrying my radio with me to lunch and breaks to keep hearing what was happening next.  On the way home I put the cassette in and even when I got home instead of watching the TV I continued listening.<br />This book was addictive!  Claire and Jamie's love story is just part of it the adventure is grand and carries over so much time.  It's not just a love story, but Jamie's experiences alone tore at my heart.  This book was an amazing tale.  It's beautifully written and you'd think it was an actual event you were reading about.  I cared about these characters and didn't want the story to end.<br />Once I finished I was eagerly searching the internet for information on Diana Gabaldon and happily found out that she'd continued the series.  I bought these books in paperback because you have to read them first hand too, but I also love the unabridged version [...] did of the book!<br />If you skip over this book you are missing out.  Scared of spending money on something you aren't sure you'll like get it from the library, ask a friend, go to a discount book store and get one.  You won't regret it!  If you take the time and actually read far enough into the story you'll find a story that will keep you hanging on for what comes next.  Then like me you'll be looking for the others in the series.<br />So if you take the time you'll also want Dragonfly in Amber, Voyager, Drums of Autumn and The Fiery Cross.sion [...] did of the book!  <br />If you skip over this book you are missing out.  Scared of spending money on something you aren't sure you'll like get it from the library, ask a friend, go to a discount book store and get one.  You won't regret it!  If you take the time and actually read far enough into the story you'll find a story that will keep you hanging on for what comes next.  Then like me you'll be looking for the others in the series.  <BR>So if you take the time you'll also want Dragonfly in Amber, Voyager, Drums of Autumn and The Fiery Cross.	2003-12-17
US	51927038	RNNEOZMMMIB0D	0061099368	896756059	Palindrome	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Keeps you guessing!	I've read many of Stuart Woods books and enjoyed them very much.  Palidrome was more than that though.  Some friends and I shared a library copy of the unabridged recording of this book on our shift at work.  Why do I mention this?  Well, it's simple.  This book was amazing!  We were left spellbound as a group, each of us poking and proding each other all night as things developed in this story.  The story is emotional as we were along on this journey with these characters.  So many twists and turns left us gasping with those surprised, &quot;OH's&quot;  that had our coworkers staring at us.  The editorial comments above tell the basics of the story, so I wanted to share the experience of actually reading or listening to it being told.  This story had us wrapped up in what was going on for the two nights we listened to it we probably worked more focused than we'd done before simply because our concentration was so involved with this story.<br />Personally this book had me crying my eyes out at work!  I sat at my desk bawling my head off and happily doing so because I enjoyed this book so much.  Unlike some of the other reviewers I wasn't expecting the twists and turns of the story, so it was great to have friends just as surprised as I was going through it with me.<br />Even a couple of years later we still remind each other every so often about this book and tell others about it.  This story sticks in your head and makes you care about what is happening to the characters.  I may have liked Stuart Woods before this book, but after this I love the way his mind works!	2003-12-15
US	51927038	R3QID6N933VCX1	0312966091	809706185	Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum, No. 3) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Stephanie's new job makes her very unpopular	Stephanie's newest job is to find the elusive Mo, patron Saint of the Burg (at least that's what everyone she asks about him tells her).  She becomes the hated by family and friends because Vinnie gives her the Uncle Mo hunt!<br />Steph's usual lineup is in for the ride with her including ex-hooker turned file clerk Lula and Lula's friend/hooker Jackie. The scene in the parking lot with the three of them is enough to have you laughing out loud.<br />Add in Ranger and Joe and you're in for a wild ride.<br />She's got people threatening her for looking for Uncle Mo and is fed up with hearing how great he is and add in a Fast food skip that keeps giving her the slip and you just get started.  You'll never see those Fast food characters the same way again.<br />Add in a horrifying day at the beauty shop and Stephanie is ready to go on a rampage of her own.<br />This volume is funnier and you can't wait for what happens around each corner.<br />As always Janet Evanovich brings us a Stephanie Plum book that keeps you glued in for the duration of the book and waiting to find out what happens in the next volume and the next.  She's got the gift of keeping us captivated by Stephanie and the gang.<br />Now, it's just a matter of waiting for each new book for our next Stephanie Plum adventure and well worth it!	2003-12-14
US	51927038	R2ULN0L31E0CJN	0060532149	510029984	Bare Necessity	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Watch those photos you take:)	This book was fun from the beginning.  Emily is left broke and disgraced after her boyfriend Declan gets them in debt and posts private photos of Emily dressed as a naughty Santa on his newest website.  Running to her best friend Cara for support only makes things worse as Cara discovers the men in her office have been viewing her best friend on the internet.<br />Cara reveals to a fellow reporter that the very woman they are ogling is a friend of hers and Emily wouldn't appreciate how she was being portrayed.  However, this is just what the reporter needs to hear to give him an idea for a new story.<br />This is just the beginning of a mad dash Emily ends up having to run in order to get her life back in order.<br />I adore this book it is fresh and funny with that little bit of betrayal thrown in to allow the characters to find redemption and ultimately love.  It's a wild mix of misunderstandings and turns into a fun read.<br />I look forward to checking out other books by Carole Matthews after Bare Necessity.	2003-12-14
US	51927038	R3GTCHVNLAONEY	0890879958	255944596	The Wicca Cookbook: Recipes, Ritual, and Lore	Books	5	34	35	N	N	You don't have to be into Wicca to enjoy this	You don't have to be into Wicca to enjoy this book.  I enjoy cookbooks and it is hard to find many that have good recipes that are easy to fix.  I don't follow Wicca or practice it, but I loved this cookbook.<br />The recipes are comfort food style recipes that are generally easy to make.  They have covered everything in this book from Bread to Dessert.  I love the bread recipes and the basic stuffing recipe is easy and delicious.<br />Just don't avoid this book because it is Wiccan, if you do you are missing a gem of a cookbook.  The history and lore and interesting reading, but it's the recipes that are wonderful and savory.<br />What I like most is that this book has recipes that are good quality without being pages and pages of ingredients and recipes.  Many of them are basics that you can use in a variety of different ways.  This is my favorite cookbook.  My only complaint is that it isn't longer, but that's not really a complaint at all:)	2003-12-14
US	51927038	R2XNQ3EHZWOR37	0671786601	756884641	To Trust a Stranger	Books	5	3	4	N	N	My favorite of Karen Robards	To Trust a Stranger is my favorite Karen Robards book so far and I have enjoyed her other work as well.<br />I just liked Mac so much from the beginning it added to my enjoyment of the book.  A big, masculine guy who is comfortable enough in his own skin to dress in drag in order to spy on a cheating spouse for his client was so funny.  He's got this attitude like \\"Yeah, so, I'm in a dress.\\"  Then Julie runs into him while out doing her own spying on her husband.  She lets Mac help her simply because she's thinking of him as a \\"Girlfriend.\\"  Her assumption about Mac's sexual orientation gives her that impression that it's nice to have a man around who will be nothing more than a friend.<br />Of course all that changes as things start coming out into the open.  Julie's husband is doing more than cheating and Mac isn't who she thinks he is.  Around every corner there is something unexpected popping up and it was an enjoyable read.  I first heard the abridged audio of this book and it really didn't do the book justice.  It leaned toward the humor and there is much more to the story than that, so I picked up the book and was glad I did.<br />As others have mentioned it's pretty steamy so I like to add that in so you don't pick up this book and then are shocked that it's in there.  This book has some definite HEAT coming off of it so be warned.<br />Julie is kind of annoying but for me Mac made up for it by miles and miles.  I really like this book and have read it several times now.	2003-12-14
US	51927038	R33N33SBLTLGF0	1559277769	394337300	To the Nines (Stephanie Plum, No. 9)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	AUDIO Review of series Narrators and SPOILERS	BE WARNED THERE IS A SPOILER IN THE END IF YOU HAVEN'T READ PREVIOUS BOOKS!!!<br />Janet's books are tops on my list. What I really enjoy is that her books are always laugh out loud funny, so they are perfect for Audio productions. Audio narrators however are a matter of your particular taste. For some reason Janet's publishers aren't doing her the justice her books deserve.<br />Janet's Stephanie Plum series of books have had several different narrators. C.J. Critt of [...] fame is the Queen of Stephanie Plum character voices. C.J. Critt makes Stephanie come to life through her voice with a great talent of making each additional character have a distinct voice of their own. At any given moment you know that it's Joe, Ranger, Grandma Mazur, Lula, etc.<br />I was absolutely thrilled to find that Recorded Books had recorded volumes 1-6 done by C.J. Unabridged. She is the best in my opinion for the series. Books 1-6 have also been read by a variety of other narrators from Debbie Mazar, Lori Petty and the narrator for this version Lorelei King.<br />Then came a stumbling block when the people who okay which company will produce Janet's Audio version of the series chose Brilliance Audio for Book 7. They chose a narrator named Tanya Eby who was so horrible that even now several years later people still are asking on the Janet message board if there will be another version done. However, it seems that there is not chance because that company got exclusive rights. Let's just say I'd fire those people who make those decisions if it was me.<br />Now, we move on to Books 8 &amp; 9. Luckily for my personal taste [...] got enough of the contract to produce what they call the Library version of books 8 &amp; 9. No news on 10 at this time. So, I was jumping for joy because C.J. Critt was back after the horrifying ordeal with Tanya Eby on book 7.<br />You are wondering why I mention all of this and this is why, Lorelei King is the narrator of the most commonly available versions. She is a wonderful narrator, but for this series I think she is absolutely wrong. As mentioned by another review she is too upper crust sounding for Stephanie's character. Stephanie is from Jersey, she's educated, but she's not an Ivy League girl. She's a Jersey neighborhood girl. So to give her a voice that seems so out of character seems like a disservice to the series. I was saddened to see that Lorelei once again will be reading the next Stephanie Plum book. What's really bad is that instead of getting the quality performance that C.J. gives you get a run of the mill let's get the books narrated as fast as we can production of an audio book. I'm glad so far for most of the series I have had the option. What is scary is that a company like Recorded Books isn't doing whatever needs to be done to keep Janet and the people that give out those contracts happy to make sure they do get to do her books. Because the combination of their production and Janet's books are a perfect combination.<br />Now for my view on To the Nines, I thought it was hilarious. Opinions are varied on this volume in the series, but for me it was laugh out loud funny. I don't take these books seriously when I pick up a Stephanie Plum book I am looking for the laughs and the love triangle between Stephanie/Ranger/Joe Morelli.<br />In this volume though it's leaving me a little tired. By the storyline it's obvious the choice of which guy will win has been made, so the flirting and conflict is becoming old and stale.<br />That's really hard for me to admit because I still love the series, but this time it was the humor that held me in and kept me for the ride.<br />The Steph/Ranger/Joe thing has run its course since we've been shown how Steph is going to run scared from Ranger at every possible opportunity. He would be my choice because I always like the guy who doesn't seem the obvious choice. However, because of comments made within the story it seems he's nothing more than the plaything/mysteryman for the entire series.<br />It seems like the Steph/Joe thing has only one conclusion that is just simply being drug out until someone finally decides the series is close to an end for it's big climax of wedded bliss.<br />I love the series. My only complaint is that this back and forth mess with Steph/Joe where they are off and on again so often it's like a never-ending tennis match. I keep coming back for more because the rest of the story is always great, but that part has become old and stale to me. How many times do a couple have to break up and get back together or how many times does the book end with a question of who will she choose only for surprise, surprise it's Joe. Other than that, I LOVE LOVE LOVE the series! The many zany characters are always worth waiting for. In To the Nines the guy covered in Vaseline still has me laughing out loud and I have read or listened to this book a dozen times.<br />I'm eagerly awaiting Ten Big Ones! As long as Janet keeps writing I'll keep buying and keeping telling all my friends.ntire series. <BR>It seems like the Steph/Joe thing has only one conclusion that is just simply being drug out until someone finally decides the series is close to an end for it's big climax of wedded bliss. <BR>I love the series. My only complaint is that this back and forth mess with Steph/Joe where they are off and on again so often it's like a never-ending tennis match. I keep coming back for more because the rest of the story is always great, but that part has become old and stale to me. How many times do a couple have to break up and get back together or how many times does the book end with a question of who will she choose only for surprise, surprise it's Joe. Other than that, I LOVE LOVE LOVE the series! The many zany characters are always worth waiting for. In To the Nines the guy covered in Vaseline still has me laughing out loud and I have read or listened to this book a dozen times. <br />I'm eagerly awaiting Ten Big Ones! As long as Janet keeps writing I'll keep buying and keeping telling all my friends.	2003-12-13
US	51927038	R3O3I9O0ZHKLCC	0553291955	954709557	The Thin Woman (Ellie Haskell)	Books	5	65	69	N	N	LOVED IT!	I hate to admit this, because it's nothing against the book at all. I absolutely love this book but for the life of me I can never remember the name. I know what it's about and about when I read it so I search my library for the name each time.<br />The story is so entertaining and fresh.  What's funny is I have read other books in this series and for some reason never knew this was one of the first in it's series.  Please don't think it's a bad part on the book because it's not it's my brain.<br />Ellie like many women in her same situation wants to impress her family because they kind of give that attitude of I'm better than you because she's plump and single.  Ellie decides her best bet is to have someone attractive and male on her arm when she visits them this time around.  So she calls on Eligibility Escorts and enter one Bentley Haskell.  He's a bit abrasive, but he fits the bill as far as being nice to look at and perfect to play the single girls long time beau.  Bentley is a trained chef, but has taken up writing an ADULT/Graphic novel.<br />Once cornered with her family though Ellie makes Bentley not just her Beau but her fianc&eacute;e in a very humorous moment.  So as the weekend ends Ellie goes home with confidence she's gotten away with her lie and can go about her business.<br />Then her uncle dies and he gets one over on the family by stipulating that he is leaving Ellie and Bentley his entire fortune and castle home if they both accomplish two things in the next 6 months.  Ellie's supposed to lose weight and make herself over.  Bentley is supposed to write a full length book, but it has to be free of blasphemy which is going to be difficult because the book he's been writing will not do at all.<br />The mystery begins as people disappear and Ellie and Bentley are being targeted by a mysterious person who wants them to fail and will do anything to make sure they do.<br />This story is funny and fresh.  I love it.<br />The audio version is abridged but very well read by Amanda Donohoe.  I'm glad I discovered this book was part of the series I had already come to love because it's a great beginning for it.ll read by Amanda Donohoe.  I'm glad I discovered this book was part of the series I had already come to love because it's a great beginning for it.	2003-12-13
US	51927038	R1KKEN2CALW0BH	0671001795	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Funeral homes never sounded like so much fun	Janet Evanovich knows how to write.  You probably wonder why I need to put that?  Well, it's because the Stephanie Plum series is so addictive.  You pick up one and devour it and are on to the next one.  Before long you are complaining about the fact that the newest installment isn't out yet and you are preordering 6 months in advance just in hopes you'll get it quicker.<br />This book is book 2 in the series of course and it's a wild ride.  Stephanie is not only looking for Kenny Mancuso(nut job #1), but ends up being babysitter/guard to Spiro Stepson of Grandma Mazur's favorite mortician at Stiva's Funeral Home.  That alone should tell you, you are in for laughs.<br />Add in the hormones gone haywire while Stephanie is in the vicinity of Joe Morelli and the tactful way she always deals with him and you are ready for a fun time.<br />These books keep me coming back for more.  Janet makes the characters come to life.  You are either laughing your head off or women are swooning over the two men in Stephanies life Joe Morelli and Ranger aka Ricardo Carlos Manoso.<br />Grab your kit kats and tasty cakes to settle in for a fun ride you'll want to share with family and friends.	2003-12-13
US	51927038	R2J3BVC7IT48PC	0312976275	963436946	Hot Six (Stephanie Plum, No. 6) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	RANGER please can I have him to go!	This book for me is simply yum!  Ranger, oh, Ranger, I'm sorry to all the Morelli fans but Ranger is the guy I adore in Stephanie's books.<br />Stephanie starts out this book by saving her friend Carol from jumping off a bridge.  Good deed that will come back later in the form of Bob the dog.  See, Carol stole some undies to try and spice up her marriage while she was trying to get away she hits an unmarked police car.  So rather than go to jail Carol is willing to jump off the bridge.  I'll leave it at that because you don't need to know much more. :)<br />Back to Ranger:<br />This time he's hiding out because he is wanted on murder charges.  He's missed his court date and now Vinnie wants Steph to track him down.  Although she refuses Vinnie's demands she still starts checking for him anyway.  She wants to know and we need to know what has happened to Ranger.<br />She ends up with Ranger popping in at all hours of the night to get some steamy flirting in and to find out any information she might have discover on the Ramos family (a gun running family whose son he is suspected of killing).  Ranger doesn't want to ask her, but soon has to because she falls into the good graces of Homer Ramos (Head of the Ramos family).  Stephanie ends up in a wild goose chase of searching for the real killer and her own doubts of whether Ranger could have done the killing or not.<br />Steph gets two new roommates Grandma Mazur and Bob the Dog.  She's got a huge pimple and isn't getting any sleep because Grandma snores and Ranger keeps popping in in the middle of the night.<br />This is just a bit of the fun Stephanie is in for this time because she's got all that wonderful chemistry with Ranger that keeps scarying her to death and Bob and Lula along for the ride.<br />This is another great one for Janet.  I just can't wait for each new book.  When a new one comes out I preorder as soon as I can eagerly awaiting it's arrival and each time I go through the entire series prior to reading the newest book.<br />These books are better each time I read them. I am so glad I found this series.  I'll keep reading them as long as she keeps writing them. :)ng the newest book.<br />These books are better each time I read them. I am so glad I found this series.  I'll keep reading them as long as she keeps writing them. :)	2003-12-13
US	51927038	RBTYEXZ8OCSLB	0380790947	986179021	The Passion	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Only wish she hadn't stopped!	Many people have told you of the story of the Devencroix werewolf family, so I won't go there.  What I will tell you is I read these books and I was transported to the world where werewolves live among us unsuspecting humans without knowing they were ever apart of our world.<br />Donna Boyd stopped with only two books in this series this one The Passion and The Promise.  I only wished she'd continued.  These books are so much more than I had expected going in.<br />We are led on a roller coaster of emotions as you read these two stories.  The characters are well drawn and you will either fall strongly toward loving them or hating them.  The passionate tale draws you in and takes hold of you.<br />The Passion and The Promise both tore at my heart.  Remembering aspects of this book even now is an emotional experience.  The books will leave you crying out your emotions whether you are for or against the characters.  Donna Boyd has done such a wonderful job of creating a world of werewolves that aren't just horror stories.  I don't want to give any of either of the stories away because as you are reading them you will be so eager to find out what is going to happen next you'll want to flip through to get glimpses of what happens, but don't do it.<br />These books aren't for the faint hearted they have some graphic moments and very adult material.  They also have a sweeping story that carried me through this world where superior werewolves run expansive empires without humans being the wiser.  At times I caught myself holding my breath as I sat devouring each page.<br />The only thing I have bad to say about the Devencroix series is that I can't believe they ended at 2 books.  This series cries out for at least a 3rd book.  However, I understand the pressures authors face, so maybe she just tired of the series after two books.  I haven't and I still love to read both of these books but I never pick them up until I am prepared to sit and read them both.	2003-12-13
US	51927038	R9SYW55WE5GE9	0312971346	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	RANGER enough said!	Volume 5 of the life of Stephanie Plum bomb shell bounty hunter is ready for devouring.<br />Stephanie is looking for Uncle Fred aka the cheapest man on earth and the guy most people could careless about being lost.  She reluctantly agrees to search for Uncle Fred and in doing so uncovers his true cheap nature as she battles the garbage company he was going to talk to regarding his $2.00.  Yes, you read that right Uncle Fred is missing and it's because of $2.00.  Okay, not just $2.00, but $2.00 and a bag of garbage.<br />However, Uncle Fred won't pay the bills and the skips have all but dried up.  Except for Randy Briggs he's not worth much, but he becomes lots of trouble real fast.  So Stephanie breaks down and asks Ranger for help finding work to get her by this rough patch.  What she proves is that she might not be very good at Bounty Hunting, but she's worse at working for Ranger.  She gets blown up, flashed, car stolen and it's all working for Ranger.<br />This book is hilarious.  Heavy flirting between Ranger and Stephanie is hot enough to burn the pages, but to Stephs horror things keep going wrong.<br />This is another winner for Janet's Stephanie Plum series.<br />I keep coming back to these books over and over because they are so much fun.<br />Pick up a few and plan to sit it out you won't want to put them down.  These are the books that will keep you up until your finish them.	2003-12-13
US	51927038	RNPDFLT0ATWKB	0060557117	90628415	Asking for Trouble: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fluff?  Well, I'll take some.	Asking for Trouble was great fun for me.  As a woman in my 30's I could easily relate to Sophy.  Male or female I think there are times in a persons life you might easily get sucked up into what Sophy is going through.  Of course you probably won't go to the links she did.  I found Sophy fun and the first person account was like you were sitting at brunch with her telling you what had happened.  Just like you'd do with your best friend.  The story is simple Sophy has told a little lie to her mother about a boyfriend that doesn't exist just to make her happy.  Enter Josh/Dominic the escort that every girl wants to take home to mother.  Someone handsome, personable and appealing to parents you want to impress with how great your doing even if you aren't.  Sophy's character is not a typical size 6 or lesser beauty, she's a little plump and currently in dating slump, so she decides this is the only way to keep her mother happy while attending her sisters wedding.  Lies start adding up though and Sophy stumbles.  What comes next?  Well, I'll leave you to find out.  It's a fun read that I enjoyed thoroughly.  I'll definitely add this book to the sharing with friends collection I have.	2003-12-12
US	51927038	R1EAZLAZM2NSCI	0446611085	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	5	2	3	N	N	LOVED IT!	It has been months since I read this book and sitting here today just thinking of it makes me cry.  Call me silly or sentimental I don't care.  This book took me places I never expected from James Patterson.  This story was so well written.  You are swept up into this diary and left eager to turn each page.  It's heartbreaking, it's emotional and it's worth every minute you spend rushing through it to find out what happens.  This for me was an emotional weep fest that I wasn't sure I'd like, but once I began I was swept away.  Grab your tissues and camp out for a while.  Be prepared for your family or friends to ask a million times why you are bawling your head off because trust me it is worth it.  This is a book that will leave you in tears just remembering it later.  Every tear shed is worth it!	2003-12-10
US	51927038	R2W8SV60QR6T9H	1587881241	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Please let me become a Fey Princess	This was my first experience with anything by Laurell K. Hamilton.  I got this unabridged audio version from my library and before I was finished with it I was online buying my own copy.  Many reviews have told of the Story, so I won't add much of that.  This book was a very big change from what I was normally used to.  If you come out of this book shocked that it was sexual I have to ask what planet did you come from?  This book was very graphic, no closed bedroom doors or waking up feeling glorious and fabulous.  Laurell K. Hamilton goes into this mystery/detective/erotic story with an open dialogue about the fact that the Fey are very open with their nudity and sex.  In no way did I ever find that I was misled with this book.  It was erotic and yet the story line of Merry trying to discover who is ultimately trying to kill her is well written and thought out.  The characters are all amazing.  Merry of course is this gorgeous beautiful thing but an outcast of her family even though by all rights she is a Princess.  Her cast of Merry men are a variety of beautiful, tortured souls who are trying to keep their friendships or relationships with Merry without upsetting their Queen her Aunt, another beautiful but sadistic monarch over her people.  We are allowed looks into what really could be things that actual Royalty are concerned with which is gaining the throne and the lengths some people will goal to gain power.  Queen Andais is a horrible sadist, but we are allowed a glimpse of her concern for the life of her son.  Laurell K. Hamilton made me actually care about the villians of the story.  Unlike many my two favorites of this story are Sholto the King who would be one of the chosen if he'd not been born with what the court considered an abomination a set of tentacle like arms that start below his chest.  He's a tortured soul that I was hoping could find what he was seeking to be loved by another Fey.  Then there is Cel the Prince (Queen Andais's son)the spoiled and sadistic bad guy he was so evil I liked him:)  There is a man for everyone in a variety like a pile of snow flakes no two are alike.  :)  I enjoy this book and have read it and listened to the audio at least 10 or 12 times.  This book is definitely an aquired taste.  Me, I loved it.  Laurell K. Hamilton never ceases to amaze me and I eagerly await the 3rd in this series.nd sadistic bad guy he was so evil I liked him:)  There is a man for everyone in a variety like a pile of snow flakes no two are alike.  :)  I enjoy this book and have read it and listened to the audio at least 10 or 12 times.  This book is definitely an aquired taste.  Me, I loved it.  Laurell K. Hamilton never ceases to amaze me and I eagerly await the 3rd in this series.	2003-12-09
US	51927038	R2F6R9X4I1IHUM	1590860357	192644371	A Caress of Twilight (Meredith Gentry, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Just go in with your eyes open	You should read Kiss of Shadows before reading Caress of Twilight. I want to say before either just go in with your eyes wide open.  This story is graphic, Laurell K. Hamilton doesn't close bedroom doors nor does she pull punches as far as what Merry experiences with each of the men.  This story is set back in Los Angeles where she is living in her small apartment with her band of guards/harem.  They are her \\"Guard\\" because she is a Princess, but their job is really to have a lot of sex with her to try and get her pregnant in order to inherit the Unseelie Throne from her aunt.  This story continues Merry's work as Detective, but her focus is primarily on the task her aunt has set forth which is getting pregnant.  Laurell K. Hamilton has once again done a good job with giving very well drawn out scenes that can place you right in the situation.  They aren't for those that have palpatations at the sight of a sex scene in a book.  These men/Fey have been without a woman for 100's of years and LKH makes you understand through Merry's narration what the men are going through.  She adds the mystery of Merry's uncle the King of Light and Illusion sending something horrible out simply so his secret can be protected.  He sends out a horror that is nothing more than a killing machine leaving distruction in it's path with no way to kill it only the possibility of trapping it once again.  I eagerly await book 3 in the series.	2003-12-09
US	51927038	R1UQ31104AJE7O	0312986343	631084691	Visions of Sugar Plums (A Stephanie Plum Holiday Novel)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Don't take it too seriously	BE WARNED this is a fun addition to the Stephanie Plum books.  It has some of the characters from the regular cast, but it's really a stand alone fantasy/mystery book.  The book is just as zany as previous installments and the jokes are there.  This book had some of the old laugh out loud moments that I was missing from some of the more intense Stephanie books.  Too many people went into this book expecting it to be an addition to Janet's normal story line of the love triangle with Stephanie/Joe/Ranger.  It was nice to just have all the goofy stuff in a book without worrying over who she picks (I want Ranger, but have lost hope that he'll win).  But it's got every thing Steph hunting down a fugitive who every one is complaining about her hunting because his name is Sandy Claws.  We've got the mysterious cute guy popping up in her kitchen with lots of flirty interaction and a bad guy that no one ever sees until it's too late.  It's a perfect holiday for Steph and the gang.	2003-12-09
US	51927038	R3AVZFLXAS8F1L	0312966970	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Remember your Depends!	This was one of the first Janet Evanovich books I got my hands on.  I soon bought them all in book and unabrided (recorded books.com) audio form. I began Four to Score at work on audio unabridged from (Recordedbooks.com) narrated by C. J. Critt.  Let me start by a review of her performance it was fabulous.  She does fantastic variations in each voice to distinguish each character clearly. She has excellent timing so people thought I was absolutely insane because I was laughing so hard I was crying with this book. The book has those spit take moments where you better not be drinking or eating anything while you are reading or listening to it because it will be all over you or your computer/dash/etc.<br />I am a member of the Janet message board where fans talk about the books. I mention it because this one I have read so many complaints about, it drives me nuts.  This book does have a lot of cussing in it, so if you are sensitive to that beware, but so what it is hilarious.  This book will require you to wear DEPENDS to get through it.  From the horrible Eddie and the various scavenger hunts Stephanie has to go through with him in order to earn her finders fee for searching for his ex-girlfriend/the skip (she is looking for anyway), to her meeting up with Cross-dressing Sally Sweet(the genius puzzle decoder).  I absolutely love this book.  Janet manages to have every funny experience Stephanie could possibly go through with her gang of Lula, Grandma Mazur, Sally and still add in Joe and Ranger. There are moments of emotion that you can feel Stephanie go through without being too much to take away from the humor or story.  You add in Eddie (the jerk), Sugar (the pyro), Joyce Barnhardt(Stephanie's enemy that Vinnie has just hired to do skip tracing) and you begin feeling sorry for the skip Maxine.  Then you add in Eddie's weird relatives, Joyce Barnhardt finding a naked man (as if anyone else would find him) and a the best wet your pants scenes I have read in quite a while.  The dancing napkin, tattooed man, and big bag of doodie are just a few.  If you haven't tried Janet's books and aren't prepared to do the whole series try this one.  It gives you some of the back story as well as a stand alone hilarious tale of a woman trying to make a living in a job that everyone says she's wrong for, but she just happens to fall into bit of luck and every pitfall possible with great humor.  I love the Stephanie Plum series and it's the first book series I recommend to my friends and family for a good fun read. Fans of the series all have their favorite books, so I tried to give you my favorite that can easily stand alone if you are new to the series.  Also, check out CJ Critt's version for the best audio version of the series they are available from Recorded books there is no comparison to her reading of the series.ile.  The dancing napkin, tattooed man, and big bag of doodie are just a few.  If you haven't tried Janet's books and aren't prepared to do the whole series try this one.  It gives you some of the back story as well as a stand alone hilarious tale of a woman trying to make a living in a job that everyone says she's wrong for, but she just happens to fall into bit of luck and every pitfall possible with great humor.  I love the Stephanie Plum series and it's the first book series I recommend to my friends and family for a good fun read. Fans of the series all have their favorite books, so I tried to give you my favorite that can easily stand alone if you are new to the series.  Also, check out CJ Critt's version for the best audio version of the series they are available from Recorded books there is no comparison to her reading of the series.	2003-12-09
US	51927038	R1W6KKRWP2WRQV	0380790963	597252567	The Promise	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Captivating left me aching for more	I began these books via the audio version that I found at my local library.  Going into the book I was at first bored not by the story but the narrator, but it was a long night at work, so I continued.  Was I glad I did?  YES, ABSOLUTELY!  Many of the reviewers have told you the story so I won't add to that.  I'm giving strictly my opinion of the the book.  Donna Boyd made me absolutely believe in the werewolves and their ability to live among us unnoticed.  The Passion is first and then The Promise, I mention that because the order is important.  These stories were so well written that I could just close my eyes and I was there.  The story, also, was so emotional that it either leaves you rooting for them or hating them.  It is easy to get sucked into the world and find yourself calling out &quot;No or Yes&quot; at moments that have lead you down paths you weren't ready for.  This is what I look for in a good read!  This book kept me enthralled even after I put the book down.  The characters kept running through my head with questions of why!!!  These books are some of the best werewolf stories I have found, as well as some of my favorite books PERIOD.  The end of the 2nd book left me absolutely at a loss simply because there is not a 3rd book to finish what you are left to wonder about.  It's been several years and I have read them over and over.  I have lost hope that there will ever be a 3rd book in this series, but I will tell you that you never completely lose it.  This series is so captivating that now several years later I still read the books and occasionally search for information on Donna Boyd just in hopes that she will sneak the 3rd book in when I least expect it.  If you are looking for a well thought out and detailed world to explore these are some books to check out.  Just thinking of them now can still take my breath away and bring me to tears.  They are an emotional read and are so much like you are actually reading a true story rather than fiction.n.	2003-12-09
US	51927038	RSE0G937R6SNP	0312966970	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Make sure you've got your depends on:)	This was one of the first Janet Evanovich books I got my hands on.  I soon bought them all in book and unabrided (recorded books.com) audio form. I began Four to Score at work on audio unabridged from (Recordedbooks.com) narrated by C. J. Critt.  Let me start by a review of her performance it was fabulous.  She does fantastic variations in each voice to distinguish each character clearly. She has excellent timing so people thought I was absolutely insane because I was laughing so hard I was crying with this book. The book has those spit take moments where you better not be drinking or eating anything while you are reading or listening to it because it will be all over you or your computer/dash/etc.<BR>I am a member of the Janet message board where fans talk about the books. I mention it because this one I have read so many complaints about, it drives me nuts.  This book does have a lot of cussing in it, so if you are sensitive to that beware, but so what it is hilarious.  This book will require you to wear DEPENDS to get through it.  From the horrible Eddie and the various scavenger hunts Stephanie has to go through with him in order to earn her finders fee for searching for his ex-girlfriend/the skip (she is looking for anyway), to her meeting up with Cross-dressing Sally Sweet(the genius puzzle decoder).  I absolutely love this book.  Janet manages to have every funny experience Stephanie could possibly go through with her gang of Lula, Grandma Mazur, Sally and still add in Joe and Ranger. There are moments of emotion that you can feel Stephanie go through without being too much to take away from the humor or story.   You add in Eddie (the pervert/jerk), Sugar (the pyro), Joyce Barnhardt(Stephanie's enemy that Vinnie has just hired to do skip tracing) and you begin feeling sorry for the skip Maxine.  Then you add in Eddie's weird relatives, Joyce Barnhardt finding a naked man (as if anyone else would find him) and a the best wet your pants scenes I have read in quite a while.  The dancing napkin, tattooed man, and big bag of doodie are just a few.  If you haven't tried Janet's books and aren't prepared to do the whole series try this one.  It gives you some of the back story as well as a stand alone hilarious tale of a woman trying to make a living in a job that everyone says she's wrong for, but she just happens to fall into bit of luck and every pitfall possible with great humor.  I love the Stephanie Plum series and it's the first book series I recommend to my friends and family for a good fun read. Fans of the series all have their favorite books, so I tried to give you my favorite that can easily stand alone if you are new to the series.  Also, check out CJ Critt's version for the best audio version of the series they are available from Recorded books there is no comparison to her reading of the series.	2003-12-09
US	51927038	R22B1OJCAGRWSQ	0425181685	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	5	4	11	N	N	Yes, it's different than the others in series, but I like it	Like other reviewers this was my first Anita Blake book. I'm glad I didn't read reviews by long time fans before picking up this book though.  Narcissus in Chains is part of the Anita Blake series, but as I said, I didn't know that when I bought the book.  I read this book in one night.  It's not for the faint of heart or those with delicate natures that complain about sex and violence in a book.  Laurell K. Hamilton is a vivid story teller in all aspects of her books, so there is no sweeping something under the rug.  Things are out there and open.  NIC is set in a S & M club at the beginning (in case you didn't guess) and the scenes are graphic.  However, they didn't take away from a good story.  Anita is the Vampire Hunter, which if like me you start with this book you are going to kind of wonder about that title considering one of her love interests is a Master Vampire named Jean Claude.  This book does stand alone it you just wanted to read it, but really to get the full effect you need to read the previous installments from the beginning to truly understand what has brought Anita to the point she is at with Jean Claude and Richard (the werewolf).  I do have issues after going back after this and starting at the beginning of the series, however, Laurell K. Hamilton writes a good story.  She keeps the images vivid and well thought out so they are right there on the page just as clear as if you were watching them on DVD.  I have mentioned this in previous reviews I know I enjoy a book when I am thinking of it later and talking about it.  Narcissus in Chains is one of those books that I talk with friends about and have read again while rereading the series.  My best advice for this series is not to get caught up all the differing opinions in which book is each person's favorite.  I have enjoyed each book in one way or another.  In my opinion that's what I want to read a book that makes me question and ponder after I have put it down.	2003-12-09
US	51927038	R1Y5KQBM39LE7G	1559277246	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum, No. 8)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Still questions unanswered for me...	I sit eagerly awaiting the next Stephanie Plum book; so let me begin by saying that Hard Eight is not my favorite of the series. I loved the humor in this volume it had me laughing out loud (as I had hoped for). Stephanie's adventure with her newest addition Kloughn had me ready to scream because he kept tagging along, but actually I came to love the scenes with him. I'm not giving a lot away by saying the dryer scene alone makes Kloughn one of the highlights of this episode in the Stephanie Plum series.<br />I may be one of the few though who found the last 50 or so pages to be a non-stop rush of events that built from her heated flirting with Ranger to a blink of an eye event that made me go back to make sure I hadn't skipped over some pages. The book flashed over a scene between Stephanie and Ranger that made you think \\"Wait, What happened?\\" It was like a cliffhanger that wasn't because you knew the answer but none of the facts. Let me just say Stephanie and Ranger have had some of the hottest flirting through several of the previous books and Hard Eight let it hit straight ice water. Nothing to do with the books but fans keep saying \\"Oh Ranger couldn't be relationship material\\" and this book gave in to those fans that have been waiting for that.  Why?  I love books with a mysterious hero who you don't know too much about but ends up being a good guy (which so far Ranger has been, he cares for Stephanie).  Consistently through this Volume Ranger is there watching out for her making sure she's got security, has bullets in her gun, he may tease her but doesn't treat her like she's stupid  and when she calls he is there without fail what's not to like?  If he is a bad why is he the \\"Primo\\" Bounty hunter and as mentioned through out the series the guy the cops want to be carrying a gun?  Ranger doesn't seem to be a thug and Hard Eight gave him a Hard Ride, now, he's not mysterious, but an \\"Opportunist\\" doesn't sound like the Ranger we've come to know and adore.  So he's got a never ending supply of expensive cars, he also owns office buildings, so he must have money or be making money if it's dirty show it to me!<br />  Abruzzi (the bad guy of the book) was scary and had me jumpy, but in only a few pages it was over.  And why aren't the cops doing anything about this guy?  Stephanie is the star of the series, but it looks like the bounty hunters (Stephanie/Ranger/Vinnie) take down more criminals than Joe (vice cop/homicide detective).  I do love Vinnie and was glad to see him back in this book.  This guy cracks me up.<br />The book seemed to heavily edited or something. I love that Janet usually has the book full of Stephanie's thoughts about everything that happens to her and in this book two rather major events went wham bam thank you ma'am fast without satisfying me. I'll read the book over and over because I love the series but it's not my favorite. The humor of the book held me though, so it is worth a try, but if you wonder like I did what happened in the ending you aren't alone...<br />The audio version is decent, but I was thrilled to discover that this time around CJ Critt was back with a version through Recorded Books.  After listening to her rendition of the book I was forced to raise my rating of 3 stars to 4 simply because there are things she brought to the story.<br />Unlike some I'll keep reading Janet as long as she keeps me laughing.  My complaint quit switching narrators on the audio versions Recorded Books is the company for quality and CJ is the narrator who brings Stephanie's story to audio life!'s got a never ending supply of expensive cars, he also owns office buildings, so he must have money or be making money if it's dirty show it to me!<BR>   Abruzzi (the bad guy of the book) was scary and had me jumpy, but in only a few pages it was over.  And why aren't the cops doing anything about this guy?  Stephanie is the star of the series, but it looks like the bounty hunters (Stephanie/Ranger/Vinnie) take down more criminals than Joe (vice cop/homicide detective).  I do love Vinnie and was glad to see him back in this book.  This guy cracks me up.<br />The book seemed to heavily edited or something. I love that Janet usually has the book full of Stephanie's thoughts about everything that happens to her and in this book two rather major events went wham bam thank you ma'am fast without satisfying me. I'll read the book over and over because I love the series but it's not my favorite. The humor of the book held me though, so it is worth a try, but if you wonder like I did what happened in the ending you aren't alone...<br />The audio version is decent, but I was thrilled to discover that this time around CJ Critt was back with a version through Recorded Books.  After listening to her rendition of the book I was forced to raise my rating of 3 stars to 4 simply because there are things she brought to the story.  <br />Unlike some I'll keep reading Janet as long as she keeps me laughing.  My complaint quit switching narrators on the audio versions Recorded Books is the company for quality and CJ is the narrator who brings Stephanie's story to audio life!	2003-04-26
US	51927038	R2UK8M6C8PFS0D	0758200846	855404492	Too Much Temptation	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Fun and hot enough to scald:)	This was my first experience with Lori Foster (even though I discovered since this reading I had several books sitting unread with novellas she'd written in collection style books). I picked up Too Much Tempation at my local bookstore after reading the back cover.  I am so thrilled I gave this book a chance.<br />This story is about Noah Harper (Gorgeous, rich and not exactly at the best place in his life romantically, you'll find that out in the book).  Now, enter Grace Jenkins (Plump, insecure in her appearance and totally in love with Noah Harper who she worships from afar).  Grace is a fun character she knows what she wants, but at times doesn't go about it as she probably should.  It's fantastic to find Grace, the non-typical female lead character she's plump as I mentioned and she knows it, I loved that I could relate to her. Her emotions of what someone who isn't a Size 2,4,6 considers when looking for love had me cheering her on!  She's funny and her interactions with Noah and his half brother Ben (also gorgeous and single making me eager for the next book Never Too Much) had me laughing at times.<br />This book is just what I was looking for in a romance with great heat.  I couldn't wait to find out what would happen with Grace and Noah.  Their chemistry was great and gave me the little emotional tugs a good romance can give it warms you up and lightens your day.<br />And this book doesn't end at the bedroom door fade out scene, which I am happy to find along with a story I enjoyed.<br />Now, I'm hooked on Lori Foster I've read several more of her books since this reading.	2002-07-08
US	51927038	R367CB9H20J1GP	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Loved it, yet hated it ending...	I sit eagerly awaiting the next Stephanie Plum book, so let me begin by saying that Hard Eight is not my favorite of the series. I loved the humor in this volume it had me laughing out loud (as I had hoped for). Stephanie's adventure with her newest sidekick Kloughn had me ready to scream because he kept tagging along, but actually I came to love the scenes with him. I'm not giving a lot away by saying the dryer scene alone makes Kloughn one of the highlights of this episode in the Stephanie Plum series.<br />I may be one of the few though who found the last 50 or so pages to be a non-stop rush of events that built from her heated flirting with Ranger to a blink of an eye event that made me go back to make sure I hadn't skipped over some pages. The book flashed over a scene between Stephanie and Ranger that made you think \\"Wait, What happened?\\" It was like a cliffhanger that wasn't because you knew the answer but none of the facts. Let me just say Stephanie and Ranger have had some of the hottest flirting through several of the previous books and Hard Eight let it hit straight ice water. Nothing to do with the books but fans keep saying \\"Oh Ranger couldn't be relationship material\\" and this book made gave in to those fans that have been waiting for that.  Why?  I love books with a mysterious hero who you don't know too much about but ends up being a good guy (which so far Ranger has been he cares for Stephanie).  Consistantly through this Volume 8 especially Ranger is there watching out for her making sure she's got security, has bullets in her gun and when she calls he is there without fail what's not to like?  If he is a bad guy how does why is he the \\"Primo\\" Bounty hunter and as mentioned through out the series the guy the cops want to be carrying a gun?  Ranger doesn't seem to be a thug and Hard Eight gave him a Hard Ride, now, he's not mysterious, but an \\"Opportunist\\" doesn't sound like the Ranger we've come to know and adore.  Abruzzi (the bad guy of the book) was scary and had me jumpy, but in only a few pages it was over.  And why aren't the cops doing anything about this guy?  Stephanie is the star of the series, but it looks like the bounty hunters (Stephanie/Ranger/Vinnie) take down more criminals than Joe (vice cop/homicide detective).<br />The book seemed to heavily edited or something. I love that Janet usually has the book full of Stephanies thoughts about everything that happens to her and in this book two rather major events went wham bam thank you ma'am fast without satisfying me. I'll read the book over and over because I love the series but it's not my favorite. The humor of the book held me though, so it is worth a try, but if you wonder like I did what happened in the ending you aren't alone...<br />The audio version is decent, but I was thrilled to discover that this time around CJ Critt was back with a version through Recorded Books.  After listening to her rendition of the book I was forced to raise my rating of 3 stars to 4 simply because there are things she brought to the story.<br />Unlike some I'll keep reading Janet as long as she keeps me laughing.  My complaint quit switching narrators on the audio versions Recorded Books is the company for quality and CJ is the narrator who brings Stephanie's story to it's full potential.was scary and had me jumpy, but in only a few pages it was over.  And why aren't the cops doing anything about this guy?  Stephanie is the star of the series, but it looks like the bounty hunters (Stephanie/Ranger/Vinnie) take down more criminals than Joe (vice cop/homicide detective).<br />The book seemed to heavily edited or something. I love that Janet usually has the book full of Stephanies thoughts about everything that happens to her and in this book two rather major events went wham bam thank you ma'am fast without satisfying me. I'll read the book over and over because I love the series but it's not my favorite. The humor of the book held me though, so it is worth a try, but if you wonder like I did what happened in the ending you aren't alone...<br />The audio version is decent, but I was thrilled to discover that this time around CJ Critt was back with a version through Recorded Books.  After listening to her rendition of the book I was forced to raise my rating of 3 stars to 4 simply because there are things she brought to the story.  <br />Unlike some I'll keep reading Janet as long as she keeps me laughing.  My complaint quit switching narrators on the audio versions Recorded Books is the company for quality and CJ is the narrator who brings Stephanie's story to it's full potential.	2002-07-03
US	51927038	R17JD7A4JJ3HYH	1575667967	244919481	The Lady's Tutor	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This is what a hot Romance should be!	Ramiel and Elizabeth's story had me drawn in from the beginning. I choose the book from the original cover drawing (such a simple but alluring photo of a couple from the neck down with the man's hand around her corseted waist something about it just made me want to find out what the story was about), but when I began the book I was glad I had. Elizabeth, a wife who wants to learn how to please her husband seeks out the help of Ramiel known by gossip to be an expert at pleasuring women. Robin Schone did what I thought was impossible in romance novel, she didn't close the curtains or miraculously have each sensual scene disappear to open back to a couple after the event. The book was Erotic and sensual without a doubt. I am an avid fan of Robin's books and The Lady's Tutor is my favorite.<br />Romantic novels are often a little warm and usually move on. Not this one it's HOT, HOT, HOT from the beginning to the end and that isn't the only reason to read this book. The story of Elizabeths discovery of truths in her marriage that you could never expect kept the pages turning quickly for me. Elizabeth and Ramiel's characters have a depth to them the passions they share is only part of it. There are mysterious events that Elizabeth discovers that change her and Ramiel's lives.<br />The sensuality was there openly and it was well written, but I have read many reviews by readers who said it was TOO MUCH or TOO EXPLICIT, but I found this book a blessing in disguise for women who aren't the stereotypical waif of a girl. Elizabeth wanted  help in her marriage bed because in those days divorce wasn't acceptable and she wanted to make it better for her and her husband. Ramiel was the perfect person to Tutor her because he taught her more than sensual pleasure, but love in spite of all obstacles for a woman in a mans world.  Ramiel teaches her that it is not necessary for a wife to simply be there to give birth to an heir and never know true pleasure.  I loved this book it wasn`t just about the sex or the love story, but about things that could actually carry over today with shocking things around corners you might feel uncomfortable about looking around and that would never have been spoken of in those days.  It is erotic & sexually graphic, but it also is more with a story that was painful, haunting and yet wonderful in the telling of it.  Robin Schone knows how to tell a story whether or not you agree with her subject matter, you can`t fault the fact that she does it tell the story so well. Although I am not a writer I speak for myself by saying insecurities I have in myself were things I recognized in this book and I was exhilarated to find a character like Elizabeth I could relate with. The books a bit steamy and I loved every bit of it.<br /><br />So you may pick it up for a wonderfully erotic Romance, but the story will keep you reading. Give it a try.out the sex or the love story, but about things that could actually carry over today with shocking things around corners you might feel uncomfortable about looking around and that would never have been spoken of in those days.  It is erotic & sexually graphic, but it also is more with a story that was painful, haunting and yet wonderful in the telling of it.  Robin Schone knows how to tell a story whether or not you agree with her subject matter, you can`t fault the fact that she does it tell the story so well. Although I am not a writer I speak for myself by saying insecurities I have in myself were things I recognized in this book and I was exhilarated to find a character like Elizabeth I could relate with. The books a bit steamy and I loved every bit of it.    So you may pick it up for a wonderfully erotic Romance, but the story will keep you reading. Give it a try.	2002-01-17
US	51927038	R17HU7UDIUBJRD	1587885298	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Rate the book not the Reader ?	Well, I thought about this a couple of times... How to review a book I loved. Okay, I loved the book in Hardcover. Stephanie is evolving and her life is it's usual topsy turvy roller coaster. The tension is great between Stephanie, Ranger and Joe Morelli. Maybe the story is typical in the sense that Stephanie is searching for someone she can't find so easily and bumbles around trying to catch the guy, so what, I love her for it.  Janet writes them well enough that like it or not I can imagine myself there in the scene as it is happening.  However, this AUDIO VERSION with TANYA EBY was a pitiful audio production of a book that deserved much more from an audio performance. Tanya Eby's performance took so much away from this book. Janet Evanovich's previous books have been read by a variety of readers from Lori Petty (abridged), Debi Mazar (abridged), Lorelie King(unabridged) and CJ Critt (unabridged through Recordedbooks.com). Out of the three CJ CRITT is fantastic and has my vote for any future performances of the Stephanie Plum series. I can not say enough about how disappointed I was in Tanya Eby's performance of this book, but don't let that stop you from reading this book because the series is a great deal of fun and SEVEN UP is one of my favorites and hopefully you'll enjoy it as well.  I'll tell you I was so desperate to find out if I was in a nightmare in regards to the narrator I wrote the Brilliance Audio who produced the book. The answer I got from them was that No they weren't going to re-record the book that unlike me many people enjoyed the audio version.  Not me my ears were bleeding afterwards.  I wish as fans we had some say in who recorded the books CJ would be my choice, but anyone other than Tanya Eby would be a step up.  It only proves that these companies no longer care about the quality, but how fast they can get it out and sold.  I'd rather wait for Recorded Books quality version than the poor substitute I was sold.	2001-09-11
US	51927038	R2RMYTJ3BU8YIU	0399146369	109258524	The Last Precinct (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	STILL WAITING FOR THE NEXT ONE	I eagerly anticipate Cornwell's novels and usually am more than overly excited to share with my friends the newest Kay Scarpetta novel, but The Last Precinct for me was a disappointment. The writing itself is up to Cornwell's usually 5 star work for me, but the story line, just left me wanting more of what wasn't there. Kay is a strong character, but she was so wishy-washy to me in this book. Trying to see her as vulnerable at times just came out as bland to me. Black Notice had a little bit of everything and I guess I just kept thinking of it considering the characters are carrying over.	2000-10-20
US	51927038	RZ8OHXDOU5B06	0786224975	244919481	The Lady's Tutor (Five Star Standard Print Romance)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Education in Passion and finding truth in yourself.	I found this book by a very silly reason I loved the cover of not a rogue and damsel situation, but the draping the models hand over the female  models corset.  I thought it was very sensual in it's simplicity.  I read  the book in a matter of hours the story pulled me along.  The sensuality  was their openly and it was well written, but I have read many reviews by  reader who said it was TOO MUCH or TOO EXPLICIT, but I found this book a  blessing in disguise for women who aren't the stereotypical waif of a girl.  Elizabeth wanted to help her marriage because in those days divorce wasn't  acceptable and she wanted to make it better.  Ramiel was the perfect person  to Tutor her because he taught her more than sensual pleasure, but love in  spite of all obstacles for a woman in a mans world.  I loved this books.  Although I am not a writer I speak for myself by saying insecurities I have  in myself were things I recognized in this book and I was exhilarated to  find a character like Elizabeth I could relate with.  The books a bit  steamy and I loved every bit of it.	2000-08-03
US	51927038	R2UH2X8SNX2K03	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Funny, exciting and sexy a must read series.	I happened across Janet Evanovich by chance at the library looking for audiobooks to listen to at work and stumbled across an abridged copy of  Four to Score.  It was fantastic, but I hated being cut short, so I began  reading the books(hardcover) and was hooked.  After reading the books I got  the unabridged cassettes to listen to at work and laughed until I cried.  Stephanie Plum is great and as a woman I want to find my own Joe Morelli!!  :)  These books are a must read even if you don't like mysteries these are  worth picking up!  For those who love mysteries all the better:)	1999-10-27
