US	51926785	R2UT0VKOQGT7W3	0316929662	633770052	What Goes Up: The Uncensored History of Modern Wall Street as Told by the Bankers, Brokers, CEOs, and Scoundrels Who Made It Happen	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Good information, interesting format	In a not-too-typical style of narration, the author explores various viewpoints regarding a wide variety of Wall Street related events.  The format is different in the sense, that entire chapters are made of quasi-independent paragraphs which are direct quotes or paraphrases from different people. It gives the book a distinct look, not necessarily a format the average business-related book follows. In that sense, the book takes a little getting used to. However, the book does provide some very interesting insights on some of the events (sort of backstage news) that have roiled Wall Street over its existence. The business-info-buff will most certainly find this book to be useful, though this reviewer didn't find the book very entertaining or well-organized. A good read.	2005-10-10
US	51926785	R5NOX9WFIB8IW	0470821701	509460397	The Dollar Crisis: Causes, Consequences, Cures	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Oft-repeated ideas and so-so narration	Yet another book talking about why the dollar will 'crash'.  The ideas and premises in the book does merit serious consideration, though the premises themselves are not exactly original. The issues related to growing trade deficit, budget deficit, and the use of credit has been well documented before, and this book joins that chorus.  The analysis is fairly sound, but the repetition of the main ideas ad-nauseum is jarring. Overall, a decent book if you haven't read any other book with similar themes, but not necessarily a \\"must-read\\".	2005-10-10
US	51926785	R31F52YBDPR7MB	1591840880	680752606	The Search: How Google and Its Rivals Rewrote the Rules of Business and Transformed Our Culture	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fascinating premise, interesting narration, some poignant questions	In a very easy-to-read (and understandable for those who may not have a technical/engineering/computer science background) book, Battelle presents an interesting notion of \\"database of intentions\\" - analysing what people are searching for at any given timeperiod, we can get snapshots of popular culture (assuming of course all sections of the society uses search engines - not realistic, but that's what assumptions are for, right?).  By further studying these snapshots, we can peform some anthropoligical cultural study, according the author. Plausible.  The rest of the book, however, doesn't directly address his premise, but provides a \\"layman's\\" account of what Internet search means, and how it has evolved.  It discusses the history of \\"search companies\\" from the first main company Altavista to Google. Much of the book is certainly focused on talking about the company whose motto is \\"Dont be evil!\\" (google), though at appropriate contexts, the author provides interesting snippets of how other companies dealt with similar issues, or when their paths crossed. It does make for an interesting reading.  A slightly romanticized version of Google's initial days, and its IPO is also presented by the author.   <br /> <br />Each chapter is neatly organized and presents additional insights into the growth of Google and the underlying stories within the \\"search\\" community.  The chapter, \\"the pefect search\\" is perhaps the best written chapter in the book and presents some interesting questions that could very well set the agenda/checkpoints for years to come in this field. The discussion on the Patriot Act and its relevance in the context of search makes for some dry reading, though it does raise some pertinent and important issues. <br /> <br />The rather superficial technical discussion, when it does exist,  makes it is clear that the author is targeting people without much technical background but enough technical curiousity  (and maybe he wants to cash in the hype Google seems to create every other day!) Regardless, the book is well-paced and the use of a simple narrative style makes it read like a novel (and thats a good thing). A must read.	2005-10-09
US	51926785	R7U53ZMLE4RLK	0761137777	795444110	Copy This!: Lessons from a Hyperactive Dyslexic who Turned a Bright Idea Into One of America's Best Companies	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Witty, Frank, Heart-warming	In a very captivating, \\"auto\\"-biography (it certainly cannot be an \\"autobiography\\" if there is another author involved!), Orfalea narrates his trysts and travails which made him the person he turned out to be....from the dylexia that affected his schooling, friendships, first copy store idea, how his store expanded, 'fights' with Xerox, and finally his decision to \\"cash in\\" his chips with Kinkos. Each chapter provides an account of a critical episode of Orfalea's life, his reflections on it, and some witty aphorisms based on that episode (\\"integrity is like virginity - you can lose it only once\\" etc.). The beauty of the writing style is such that these three elements are neatly interspersed without any sense of pretense or didatic tone. The ever-pervasive witty tone and self-effacing narrative style makes the book seem like a intersting novel as opposed to being an autobiography. In addition, one gets to learn interesting stories about one of the most admired companies.  The different appendices in the book provides a good snapshot of the author's personality - one of them is a long list of all people he thanks for their help! A 'collection' of his aphorisms that appear in various chapters is provided as a separate appendix for reference. That alone is worth the price of the book and will certainly make you pause and think about his words.  Though the author titled the book, \\"Copy This!\\", it is unlikely that anyone can actually copy or imitate the style of the book or of his own! A must-read.	2005-10-09
US	51926785	RQ6HEDSLHWQFA	0471715794	836151887	FedEx Delivers: How the World's Leading Shipping Company Keeps Innovating and Outperforming the Competition	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Interesting read....from a manager's viewpoint, not from an engineer's	In a very easy-to-read book, Birla uses his vast experience in FedEx to outline how the philosophy of FedEx evolved and thrives on innovation. The vantage point enjoyed by the author certainly reflects in this \\"big picture\\" viewpoint of one of the better known company's growth. Of particular interest is the notion of innovation ( spelt with an \\"i\\") dealing with process improvements and Innovation (spelt with an \\"I\\") dealing with business model changes. The author provides an interesting discussion on what constitutes innovation and how FedEx defined (or didnt define) it. The rest of the book explains how a 5-dimensional employee base can be created. This discussion is certainly novel and adds some interesting perspective for anyone involved in managing people and/or processes.   <br /> <br />Though the book will certainly please any \\"managerial-type\\" reader, I was a bit disappointed to see that the author's vast engineering experience was essentially untapped in this book. There is no meaningful discussion on the operational side of \\"how \\" FedEx actually implemented innovation....In that sense, the title is a little misleading for an engineering-minded reader.  Regardless, this is an excellent read, provides a different perspective on how innovation should be seen, and a broad paradigm that enables developing an employee-base committed to and thriving on innovation.  A good read.  (It may be interesting to read this book along with the autobiography of Kinko's founder - \\"Copy This!\\".  FedEx's buying of Kinkos is discussed in this book and for even a casual observer the synergy between these two companies seems real.)	2005-10-09
US	51926785	R2YDCK95AAZGVM	0471741256	399772235	Trade Stocks and Commodities with the Insiders: Secrets of the COT Report	Books	3	61	69	N	N	Interesting discussion, some indirect sales pitch	At first, skimming through the book was disappointing...There is virtually no discussion on trading stocks per se.  The title is slightly misleading in that respect.  However, if you are a commodity trader, it is likely that this book will reinforce some of the basics, and then provide additional insights into using the COT report to arrive at more \\"reasonable\\" trade decisions. A good portion of the introductory chapters deal with what the COT report contains and what to look for. Then, the author discusses the impact of actions of various groups' (commercials, being the primary group of interest) trading actions/biases. Issues related to volume, open interest, etc are dealt with interestingly.  The central theme of the author does seem to advocate a very contrarian approach for most of the time, and the interpretations of the indicators he discusses support such an assessment.  In addition, there is some indirect/subtle, not-so-annoying marketing of the author's products/website.  However, the average investor who doesn't want to subscribe to any service that provides some of the \\"customizable\\" indicators the author encourages traders to use, may not find investing in this book valuable.  But then, most commodity traders are 'sophisticated' and likely to have such services.  In short, if you are a stock trader, avoid the book regardless of what the title says; but the book is valuable for a commodity trader or for someone who wants to understand some of the mechanisms involved in commodity trading.	2005-09-21
US	51926785	R2VS8GQTBFF6ML	0471457329	995131395	Fischer Black and the Revolutionary Idea of Finance	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A biography with a difference, excellent read.	In a remarkably well-researched biography, the author captures the inspiration, attitudes, ethos and peculiar characteristics of one of the best known financial engineers.  The depth and thoroughness of the research on which the book is based upon is evident from the author's introduction where he says the book took 7 years to put together. Time well spent!   Each clearly delinated and well-organized chapter provides good insights into at least one major aspect of Black's life - academic bent, inspiration sources, etc. The absence of 'traditional' biography writing style (unnecessary romantic school days stories and the like) is an additional bonus...Every chapter is chosen to provide some additional insights, and do not drone.  However, the book is not for light-reading. Certainly readers interested in this book are probably well-versed with the work of Black.  The book reads more like a \\"technical biography\\" - which is a good thing.  Superb read.	2005-09-21
US	51926785	R1L4A3I5MSJG01	0974038628	542647533	An Investor's Guide to Trading Options	Books	2	25	30	N	N	light on details	If you are looking for a \\"Cliff's guide\\" for options, this is the perfect book.  Unfortunately, the book offers absolutely no additional information (infact less information) than that is available for free on websites such as msn moneycentral, yahoo finance, etc.  If you are an absolute beginner as far as trading options are concerned and need a book, this one certainly is not the option you should consider!  Too pricey for information that is available free on most reputable websites.  On the plus side, the graphics in this book is stunning and has creatively used almost all colors invented by humanity....	2005-09-19
US	51926785	R1WFT0W1TNEZ60	1400061245	119018164	The Genius Factory: The Curious History of the Nobel Prize Sperm Bank	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting reading, informative bio sketches	In an interesting narration of three separate \\"stories\\" of donor fathers and their children, the author presents a detailed history of a perhaps misguided experiment in eugenics...\\"genius factory\\".  The discussion of the backgrounds of the development of eugenics and those of the main characters involved in the Nobel Prize Sperm Bank is an informative and interesting read.  The book is essentially structured to reflect a \\"in process\\" story of people from different backgrounds and motivation attempting to unite with their donor fathers.  <br /> <br />Overall, the book is well-written, but the switch between fairly pedantic writing style when the author revisits historical events, and the conversational style used to discuss the events of the present-day \\"characters\\" in the book seems sometimes jarring. The book doesnt attempt to provide any meaningful discussions or conclusions on the notion of the \\"sperm bank\\", but that doesnt seem to be the intent of the author anyway.  The book is essentially the journey of three different sets of people trying to unite with the \\"donor\\", and should be viewed as such.  Good read. Informative and thought provoking subject matter, though no analysis is provided or claimed....	2005-09-18
US	51926785	R3H1T4IE76MNK5	0345457609	275033463	The Chairman: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting, well-paced	With the help of his excellent background in financial markets (despite incredible claims in the novel of 50-100% returns of private equity firms), the author portrays the events of a leading equity firm, grappling with the aftermath of its leader's death/murder, and ensuing battle for leadership. The plot is well developed, though the events seem over-dramatic at times, diminishing the quality of narration. The author uses the usual trick of \\"misdirection\\" to good use in keeping the reader guessing; but in the end, the last two chapters unravel too quickly and in a \\"blah\\" manner.  Certainly, a good read, though not the best from the author.  The author's novel technique of \\"defining\\" some terms in the beginning of each chapter is interesting and does provide some interesting \\"insights\\".  if you can handle a little bit of over-the-top dramatization and some incredible claims on equity returns, this is a good financial thriller to read.	2005-08-22
US	51926785	R2W8HSSTK5JLFK	1582344841	133717043	The Underminer: The Best Friend Who Casually Destroys Your Life	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Excellent narrative style, stale plot development	In a remarkable use of \\"point-of-view\\" narrative style, the author presents an 'underminer' and a victim (whom we never hear from) through one-sided conversations.  While the novelty of the narrative style wears off after a couple of chapters, it does seem effective in provoking the reader to imagine how he/she would react if in same scenario. Regardless, the characters almost maintain their respective \\"maturity\\" levels throughout the book, and seems have stunted growth; It is a pity that the characters weren't allowed to evolve more; or maybe that is the author's point - the underminer (and the victim) never grow up. The conversations presented does evoke laughter at times, but it is often mixed with pity for the victim; the feeling is repeated infinetly in the book.  Excellent narrative style; novelty wears out soon, though (Have I become an underminer myself?). Good read, but only if you want to experiment with a new style(I should stop here, else my transformation to an underminer will be complete).	2005-08-22
US	51926785	R1ZP00AM97T576	0151010501	820023390	Dangerous Doses: How Counterfeiters Are Contaminating America's Drug Supply	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Serious Issues, So-So "narrated"	The author, with a background in medical investigative reporting, presents an interesting \\"story\\" whose main theme is that wholesale distribution of medicines has serious problems, counterfieting drugs, stealing-and-reselling drugs, to name a few.  While the story is well researched, the narrative style of the book (almost like a Robin Cook medical thriller) is a little distracting to the main theme. While the \\"fictional narrative\\" approach can certianly keep the readers engaged, its sheer pace (compliment) in this context appears to mute the main points the author wants to make.  Nevertheless, the book raises some serious concerns and provides a significant starting point for anyone interested in understanding issues related to the 'medical supply chains'.  A good read.	2005-07-24
US	51926785	R1GWNX9CS43LH6	0471698652	279334158	The Market Masters: Wall Street's Top Investment Pros Reveal How to Make Money in Both Bull and Bear Markets	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Most Promising Title.......	The book certainly has a great title. Unfortunately, that's all it has. The book is written in the form of a question-answer script of interviews of various famous money managers/fund managers. No specific strategy is ever discussed by any of the managers interviewed, though themes like diversification, having a defined strategy, etc. is reinforced. The book also contains a fairly superficial summary of the the conversations - all alluding to points which any average investor would be more than aware of.  The book is certainly novel in its decision to be essentially a transcript.  Unfortunately, nothing in the book actually answers the grandious title of the book. Avoidable.	2005-07-18
US	51926785	R3B8E042DOHJO9	006073132X	150560620	Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Overly Hyped Title......and media reaction, but still a good read	In a well-narrated book, the author(s) present some interesting statistical information, but in an anectodal way.  The overall point of the book is, however, lost among the myriad of anecdotes.  It seems almost as if the author(s) werent sure if he should focus on the main point (which probably is: correlation analysis is an interesting way to look at seemingly disparate issues, and that they suggest relation, though not cause-effect relations) or be a comic.  Regardless, the book does provide interesting information in a very easy-to-understand manner; most of the incidents are in fact derived from the authors academic papers and related work, and are properly cited in the book, though not in the main text.  A few reviewers who werent sure what studies were referred probably missed the \\"Notes\\" section of the book.  It is clear that the objective of the book is to reach out to folks who may not necessarily have a background in statistics or engineering-minded (dare I say, geeks), though the information is clearly articulated. A very enjoyable read, though the book could have had a much sharper focus...At the end, the reader may be left with the impression..\\"Wow, a great read...but what is he trying to say?\\".  Enjoy!	2005-07-18
US	51926785	R3E0ILWGE6IJQE	0471711837	363315759	Five Key Lessons from Top Money Managers	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Anecdotes are nice, "advice" is so-so  (2.5 stars)	In a very \\"general\\" book, the author profiles some of the better known fund managers. The book cover and title suggest that some significant information regarding these managers' trading style is discussed. Nope. The author waits until Chapter 8 to even list what the 5 key lessons are. Two of the lessons is \\"invest, do not speculate\\", and \\"invest only when the stock price is below fair price value (WOW!)\\".  That should give you an idea of the \\"key\\" lessons.  If you are researching this book for investment ideas, better luck elsewhere. On a positive note, the book offers a very good introductory discussion on present and future value of money and discounted cash flow model. Anecdotes of the managers when they were as young as 8 years old which molded their investment philosophy (isnt that very believable?) is an interesting read. Wont lose much if this book is skipped. If you are an absolute beginner, the book certainly has some merits and is worth a second look.	2005-07-15
US	51926785	R2GIITL0NUU2H6	0471710490	510628635	How to Make Money Selling Stocks Short	Books	2	28	34	N	N	Will Lose Respect for the Author.....	This book, unfortunately, is perhaps a mockery of the author's reputation.  The first few pages (Part 1 and Part 2 - each may be about 10 pages or so) talk about when to short in very abstract sense and then the mechanics of shorting. Part 3 of the book is a gigantic collection of stock charts which provide some \\"itsy-bitsy\\" techincal mumbo-jumbo scribbled along a chart with an indicator saying \\"short here\\"!!  It borders on amusement at times.  On a serious note, the author does clearly point out that shorting is a risky business and does provide tons of examples.  One could only wish that the author had distilled all the information in his 150 or so charts and actually described \\"something\\" that will answer the question posed as the title of the book. It is particulary disappointing that the author wrote one of my all-time favorite investing book,  and I am a big fan of Investors Business Digest.  leaf through this book, but not buy it.	2005-07-15
US	51926785	R1JCFSH2ZHLEXW	1586420909	201599582	Triple Identity: An Intelligence Thriller (Dan Gordon Thrillers)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Remarkable Thriller Grounded in Reality	In a thriller grounded in reality and simplicity, the plot revolves around a missing person who has apparently atleast three identities. Different groups of people, agencies are after this person for various reasons.  Additional details of the plot is not provided in this review, for obvious reasons.  The most remarkable component of the writing style and plot development is the narration of the plot through events and characters that are grounded in reality. Mixing fact and fiction  throughout the novel amplifies that characteristic of the writing style. You will get all the thrill of a \\"Bourne\\"-type novel without losing touch with reality. A good read.  This is author's first book and is a worthy effort. One will have to eagerly await his second book on bioterrorism.	2005-07-15
US	51926785	R1Q3596KI77P9U	0465031161	14842453	The Bottomless Well: The Twilight of Fuel, The Virtue of Waste, and Why We Will Never Run Out of Energy	Books	3	11	20	N	N	Different take, not conventional (good), and a lot of wishful thinking	In a book filled with interesting assertions and even more interesting arguments againts both liberals' and some conservatives' assertions, the authors may perhaps be closer to sanity than most vocal \\"experts\\" in this field. This review is not going to focus on the merits of the arguments per se, since it is upto the reader to form his/her own opinion without any prior biases.  The good points from the book:   <br />- neatly organized, well presented arguments (whether you agree with them or not is a totally different issue) centered around seven \\"energy heresies\\" as the authors call it. <br />- not too heavy on politics or propoganda. <br />- it is not often you find DNA and helix discussed in the context of energy or oil, so the discussion presented in one of the chapters is very unique. <br />The negatives:   <br />- as with most books on this subject, this also centers around asserions - intelligent arguments as they are, they are still arguments and another way to \\"spin\\" things.  To point out conservation gains and fear of nuclear energy are exaggerated is a good thing, but to discredit any gains from increased efficiency (apparently with the money saved, we will be buying other stuff which needs energy to make, or do more and consume more) seems a little bit too harsh.  There is also a convoluted argument that implies that more we, particularly in the US, consume energy, greater the stability in energy related issues and biosphere.  Either the definitions of stability has changed or has become a synonym with degradation!  Other than these specific convoluted logic (it is difficult to get into a propoganda mode in energy topics - one of the main donors to the institute of the lead author is Exxon Mobil - [...] hence the slight slant seems unsuprising). <br /> <br />Dont expect an impartial analysis of the impending energy crisis, but expect a well presented, organized set of arguments whose claims differ from perhaps the majority of scientific and academic opinion.	2005-07-07
US	51926785	R32LIMZTAB3U2C	0375412751	27308936	A Change of Heart: How the People of Framingham, Massachusetts, Helped Unravel the Mysteries of Cardiovascular Disease	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Excellent backstage story of a monumental study	In a well-narrated, affectionate account of the Framingham study, its current director and a medical journalist, present the study's origins, crises, and ambitious agenda. The book starts off on a fairly dramatic note with a fast-paced account of FDR's final days, which sets the background of the rest of the book. Then, in crisp chapters, the authors present various aspects of the early stages of the study. The chapters dealing with the impact of cholestrol on heart diseases and that of blood pressure on cardiac health are perhaps the best written.  The book is a little marred by the sudden shift in the narration style in the last few chapters where the author (probably refering to the lead author alone) use first person account for narration, rather than the third person reporting employed for the earlier chapters. The strong sections of the book will make a reader wish that the authors had explored a bit more in detail about where the future would lead in these trials.  The book captures the lead \\"actors\\" of the study, since its inception, the loyalty and enthusiasm of the volunteers very inspiringly. One can also see how developments in technology, and analytical methods changed the direction of the study making for a very interesting read. A must read!	2005-07-05
US	51926785	R2HZS34MH8ADIS	055380197X	946248869	Locked Rooms (Mary Russell Novels)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Fantastic read	In this much awaited 'episode' in the series, Holmes and Mary are in San Francisco amid recurring dreams that haunt Mary.  The plot in itself is fairly straightforward, though well narrated. Any discussion of the plot will diminish the thrill for the reader, hence this review focuses mostly on the style. The narrative style is unique in the sense that the book alternates between describing the events from Mary's point of view in the first part of the book, and then from Holmes' viewpoint in the second. The rationale for such an approach is discussed in the editor's note. Such a narrative style though not entirely new, is remarkably put to good use in the novel.  Readers familiar with this series will not be disappointed, and those for whom this book is an introduction to this series this will make you want to hunt down all previous novels in the series.  The characters are all well developed, and the familiarity of Holmes and Russell continues to develop well. Make sure you have left an entire day cleared off before reading this book. It is almost impossible to resist trying to finish the book in a single sitting. A good read.	2005-06-30
US	51926785	R1M9HX637JN8MI	0975966006	998929512	The Astute Investor	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Broad range of information without sensationalism - 4.5 stars	In a very down-to-earth style, the author presents very relevant information on a wide variety of topics. Ranging from fundamental calculations such as the various P/E ratios, to technical analysis, emotional investing, contrarian investing, impact of news on investing, and retirement planning, the book covers almost all main topics in investing.  The chapter on interest rates and their impact is a well presented one and is a unique feature of the book.  Established theories such as efficient market theory are also explained in a thorough but easy to understand manner.  Certianly, the book is a good reference book to have. <br /> <br />However the reader should be aware that this book will serve mostly as a springboard to more detailed books on specific topics (the book by Murphy on Technical Investing, for example, or those of Siegel on stock trends). Using this book as an appetizer, the reader should be able to determine which topics he/she needs greater depth analysis and then choose more books accordingly. Nevertheless this book is a must-read.   <br /> <br />There is also no talk on \\"the next big boom\\" or \\"hottest stocks for today\\" and such sensational topics...a very welcome aspect of the book.  As the title suggests the intended audience is an \\"investor\\" not a speculator or trader.  <br /> <br />The book recieves 4.5 stars only because of the lack of meaningful and detailed figures and charts. Almost the entire book is devoid of any figures/charts that could have been used to clarify some of the discussions.  Apart from that, the choice of the cover page is certainly an interesting one, but then, serious readers are concerned about whats inside the book rather than whats on the cover page.  A must read.	2005-06-29
US	51926785	R116JQM2ZZMRRU	032124785X	505401893	The New Laws of the Stock Market Jungle: An Insider's Guide to Successful Investing in a Changing World	Books	3	1	3	N	N	nothing new, but detailed explanations	While the basic premise of the book is that \\"investing world has changes and therefore so should you\\", is certainly true, it doesnt really bring anything original or substantially novel.  The author discusses in great detail, well supported by data and analysis, the impact on different aspects or the new \\"rules of the jungle\\". Topics such as as increased appetite for speculation are well know now, but the facts behind those conclusions are explained in a detailed manner.  Overall, it is an interesting treatment of the topics, though brevity is not one of the author's strong points. Dont expect to find any significant information that will alter your portfolio, but it may give you some info on how things work in stock markets and some of the trends associated with trading.  Could have been a 4 or 5 star book, but the arguments and explanations are a bit too long-winded....	2005-06-24
US	51926785	R1XJZGU2OZ3URV	0743222997	40441594	The Next Great Bubble Boom: How to Profit from the Greatest Boom in History: 2005-2009	Books	2	12	14	N	N	wishful thinking at best...	In a startling prediction, Dent claims that DJIA will cross 40000 in the next few years time.  Dow is struggling to get to 10500 and keep it there for a real long time now, though.  Considering the midterm trends seen in the market, predictions in this book seem mostly baseless.  But the premise has some merit. The author presents a plausible case for changes in market behavior based on demographic trends.  However, no real statistical inferences or correlation analysis is cited in the fairly strong conclusions made by the author throughout the book.  It doesnt account for immigration changes, and impacts of other macro economic indicators.  It is also interesting to see that the graphs in the books doesnt seem to be log charts or to scale, thereby making the extrapolations used in the discussion to seem very smooth. It is very misleading at times. There is some discussion on how to change portfolio based on the claims, but since the claims themselves are not convincing, not sure how much weight to give these opinions.  Regardless, there is some good discussion on the impact of changing population patterns and its impacts....extrapolating that relation to make outrageous claims seems a little unwarranted and diminishes the quality of the book. Ok read, wont miss much if you dont read this. Better use for your dollars may be Siegels book(s), whether the Dow reaches 40000 or not.	2005-06-23
US	51926785	R126WX637CPYQ5	0802117899	112347230	Al Jazeera: The Inside Story of the Arab News Channel That is Challenging the West	Books	4	3	5	N	N	good account , informative, a little cheer-leading	In a mostly affectionate look at the origins and rise of the prime Arabic channel, the book manages to intersperse historical story telling, behind-the-scenes accounts, and political commentary.  Intentionally or not, the book provides an interesting case study in the differences in style, philosophy, structure of Western channels like CNN, Fox and Arabic channels (though only Al JAzeera is discussed in detail as can be expected from the title).  Certainly, at least for a non-Arabic reader, the book provides a wealth of information on TV/media scenario in mid-Eastern region.   <br /> <br />One could argue that the author is predisposed to some degree of cheerleading AlJazeera, but given the detailed research and discussion on the efforts of non-Quatar countries in the region, the U.S. and U.K. to shut down or impede the operations of the channel, it is clear that the channel has managed to become the enemy of everyone on almost all issues.  Maybe as the author implies, the channel is infact doing something right!  There is no doubt that a readers respect for CNN will decrease after reading the book and considering that until this book, Western media focused on villifying this channel, the book is bound to temper those wrong notions....Maybe the channel will get its due respect.  One can easily be swayed by flag waving \\"experts\\" on talkshows (some of whom have been semi-exposed in this book), this book is a fairly good \\"other side of the story\\" for those willing to listen.  Persuasiveness of the author is diminished by what seems his blind cheerleading of the channel....An excellent read, providing accounts of the main Gulf wars and 9/11 from a different perspective devoid of sensationalism.	2005-06-23
US	51926785	R3DMP2SQIIR3V5	0374157162	390844238	The Fly in the Cathedral: How a Group of Cambridge Scientists Won the International Race to Split the Atom	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Infant nuclear physics and its pioneers	The author explores the series of events that gave nuclear physics the status of a discipline.  Narrating the events at the Cavendish laboratory, Cathcart outlines Rutherford and his teams' efforts at 'splitting' the atom (more precisely, the nucleus).  Events from the arrival of the main \\"characters\\" to their respective labs culiminating in their winning Nobel prizes is narrated in a fairly easy-to-understand narrative style.    <br /> <br />However, it is not clear what \\"race\\" the book title refers to and is certainly misleading. The easygoing narrative style of the book is sometimes marred by unnecessarily long sentences and sometimes poor punctuations. Though the focal events discussed by the author is in chronological manner, the \\"side plots\\" when additional information/background is being discussed often seemed out of place and a little bit difficult to keep track off. Apart from these minor issues, the book is very informative and in addition, provides a human side to the experiments that changed/created a new discipline.  A glimpse into the personal life of some of the famous theoristists and experimenters is presented in an interesting manner.  Excellent pictures from archives and images of actual notes used by the scientists is also an interesting addition to the book. Overall, a good read, though cannot be considered as a light-reading exercise.	2005-06-16
US	51926785	R3Q2CIL3P5TZZ0	0312337787	247790316	Hot Lights, Cold Steel: Life, Death and Sleepless Nights in a Surgeon's First Years	Books	5	4	4	N	N	heart-warming, depressing, amusing.....an all-rounder	In a remarkably interesting account of the author's 4 years in residency, the reader quickly identifies himself/herself with the author. The easy-to-read narrative style almost makes the reader as if all the events described are happening right in front of the reader.  As can be expected, the medical residency is indeed a gruelling experience, and the emotional maturity one gains from it is reflected in the transformations one sees in the author through the events of the four years, as discussed by the author. Events range from heart-warming to depressing, but the emotional tugs all seem to underscore a critical dilemma doctors face...the notion of emotional distance with the patient.  <br /> <br />The book is fairly fast-paced, and though peppered with numerous medical terms (mostly names of conditions or procedures), the jist of the discussion is never lost. The sense of humor seen in the chapters is probably what kept this author sane throughout the residency.  It is a little bit amusing to note that the doctor managed to keep his wife pregnant throughout his residency, but that could just show how much he loves life. (not being judgemental here...).  Any one who reads this book will probably have a better appreciation of the emotional training involved in being a physician/surgeon. A must-read.  Clear off the entire weekend and sit down with this book.	2005-05-23
US	51926785	R24YTN5IESV3KK	0743265858	143758358	Face the Nation: My Favorite Stories from the First 50 Years of the Award-Winning News Broadcast	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Concise history of 50 years	This respected journalist provides a very engaging historical reporting of some major events that shaped political and foreign policy issues from the U.S. perspective.  Events leading upto the talk show, Face the Nation, the major players in the CBS corporation is discussed first. Then, in short and crisp separate chapters, Schieffer reports and adds insights on different events such as McCarthy-ism, Cuban revolution, Vietnam war, Nixon scandals, rise of women in journalism, Starr versus Clinton episode, and the Iraq war. Each chapter provides behind-the-scene accounts of some famous interviews.  Interesting reading. Dont look for any analysis of events..that is not the intent of the book.  Even then, the chapter on Vietnam war is way too compact compared to the length devoted to lesser events such as Lewinsky scandal.	2005-05-20
US	51926785	R2ZZ12QJ8MQTT6	1400060397	526069302	Ponzi's Scheme: The True Story of a Financial Legend	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Engaging and Entertaining	In a very engaging account of the arguably the \\"best\\" financial scam (before Enron days atleast), Zuckoff narrates the fascinating story an Italian immigrant to the US and his seemingly unending tale of woe, charm, financial trickery - all combined! As the plot (even though this is an actual account of real events, it reads as if it were one of the best written thriller!) develops, one cannot but imagine if any other person could have survived the events Ponzi had to suffer through. Using a brilliant narrative technique, the author develops the main actors' roles in a systematic manner, most notably those of Charles Ponzi, his wife, and Gozier (publisher).  <br /> <br />Each chapter also includes a reproduction of a relevant photograph obtained from the famed Post, Boston Library and other sources. Those pictures are so well chosen that they capture the essence of the ensuing chapter very well.  <br /> <br />As can be expected from a professor of journalism, the book is well documented with plenty of detailed notes and bibliography for any serious reader. <br /> <br />It should be pointed out that the Epilogue should not be forgotten at all. The unravelling of the \\"plot\\" happens mostly in the epilogue and contains numerous twists and turns associated with the fascinating life of Charles Ponzi.   <br /> <br />An excellent read, but make sure you have cleared out an entire day or weekend for it, because once you start reading it, you wont stop until you are at the last page!	2005-04-30
US	51926785	RCD6UJDQGHT6P	1594200335	844238166	The United States of Europe: The New Superpower and the End of American Supremacy	Books	5	6	10	N	N	dispassionate analysis	If you are a staunch conservative, ignore this book at your peril, even if it may virtually attack all notions of typical conservative policy making with respect to foreign policy. <br /> <br />In a dispasstionate, comprehensive analysis, Reid provides draws a contrasting picture between the USA and the EU.  The discussion spans almost all realms of life - enterpreunership, <br />economic and trade policies, educational system, medical/health care system, health fads, cultural and religious (or the lack of religious convictions), and foreign policy to list a few.   <br /> <br />The overarching theme in each of the chapters is how the emerging unity among the European nations, in the context of EU, <br />can and will eventually test USA's hegemony in economic, cultural, moral, political clout. <br /> <br />While the title itself is a bit alarmist (arguably, a marketing ploy) - it says the \\"end of american supremacy\\", the thesis presented in the book doesnt necessarily come close to proving that, though it does provide significant insights for a well-deserved second look. Staunch conservatives in the USA are more <br />likely to dismiss the book as ramblings of a liberal, though nothing could be further from the theme of the book. <br /> <br />The themes are well presented and argued with some self-effacing humor.  Especially noteworthy in the humor department <br />is that the french themeselves would actually prefer the term \\"liberty fries\\".  <br /> <br />The chapters on the introduction of Euro and General Electric's experience with EU anti-trust department are particularly engaging.  A deailed set of appendices provide information on each of the EU nations and the framework for EU's government. <br /> <br />Written in an engaging, easy-to-read manner, the book will captivate the thoughts of any serious political junkie <br />and observers.  This may perhaps be the best book that provides a comprehensive tour of the moral and political frameworks within which the EU is emerging, and how each of those steps differ from (and in author's opinion threaten) the US. An excellent read.	2005-04-24
US	51926785	R3NRGBD7NOGJXI	0071381937	556930234	Technical Analysis Explained : The Successful Investor's Guide to Spotting Investment Trends and Turning Points	Books	4	84	87	N	N	Good reference; poorly edited	Though the book is detailed and fairly comprehensive, the poor editing mars the quality of the book. Even the acknowledgement page contains 4 typos. That is a certain embarrassment. It is difficult to overcome the initial impression of sloppy editing and the book seems to have been rushed to meet some deadlines. <br /> <br />If you can get past the editorial issues, the book is a good collection of almost any interesting technical indicator that is available.  While this book cannot be a substitute for the classic book by Murphy on technical investing, it is still a good resource for any investor. Of specific interest to the reader who is already aware of the technical investing (and a Murphy fan), the sections on \\"psychological strategies\\" is an interesting read. Other than that the book presents information from a huge variety of sources that has anything to do with indicators and oscillators.  If you want to invest in only 1 book on technical investing, the book by Murphy is a better bet, with its better organization, editing and use of examples. This book, however, is a welcome addition, and not necessarily a must-have.	2005-04-04
US	51926785	R2U795VOQUCNJT	0471479632	416019989	Beating the S&P with Dividends: How to Build a Superior Portfolio of Dividend Yielding Stocks	Books	3	23	25	N	N	Basic information well presented	If this is your first book on dividends and how they can help in improving total returns, this book will not disappoint you. However, if you are looking for any new ground-breaking research or novel trading/investing strategies, the book has very little new to offer.  Most of the book will be educational for the new investor, despite most examples in the book are taken from IRS's website. Much of the book is also devoted to lists of companies that have been increasing dividends consistently...information that is mostly freely available.  The book talks about an index focusing on dividend paying companies and shows how it has beaten the broad market in short and long terms. however, there is very little information on the composition of the index, how it is weighted and so on. SP and other indices clearly specify the composition and their weights.  Overall, the book is good for a new investor, with good explanations on dividends, different ratios that can be used to evaluate a company, and so on. But it comes short of adding new material to the already crowded investment literature.	2005-04-02
US	51926785	RSALI6PI5Q8ET	0691123357	373262786	Irrational Exuberance	Books	5	15	16	N	N	indepth analysis on market behavior	In a welcome second edition of the book, Shiller sets up his main theses using the real estate \\"bubble\\" (or if you prefer, \\"boom\\") example.  The first part of the book focuses on a historical analysis of the \\"bubble\\" scenarios and uses the recent real estate phenomenon to explain the context of his arguments. He systematically argues against all the reasons cited for the real estate boom (population, construction costs, etc.) In the second part, he focuses on causes for these speculative behaviors of investors and their changing perceptions on risk. His classification of factors into precipitating and amplifying groups is an interesting approach.  He then proceeds to explain cultural, political and psychological factors to reason why he thinks investors behave in a \\"speculative\\" mode. His attack on the cable TV news media and their \\"noisy\\" coverage of business news is an amusing and thought-provoking read.      Any serious investor for the long term (and short term) will find the insights on market behavior very useful in analysing his/her own behavior. The efficient market theory, \\"greater fool\\" theory, etc. will also need a more critical look after reading Shiller's comments.     This thought provoking book is an excellent read along with Jeremy Siegel's (one of the authors friends/advisors) book which takes a much more positive perspective on market trends and more importantly, market behavior.     While the strength of the arguments will keep the reader interested, the book is no easy week-end read. It needs to be read in a slow pace to absorb the gravity of the arguments. But that shouldnt deter a serious investor. A must have.	2005-04-02
US	51926785	R3D42JR78ME7QP	140008198X	72411311	The Future for Investors: Why the Tried and the True Triumph Over the Bold and the New	Books	5	102	110	N	N	Insightful analysis without sensationalism	In his earlier book, Siegel had proven that stocks are the best investment vehicle for the long term. In a fitting \\"sequel\\" to his previous bestseller, Siegel answers the question \\"which stocks to buy for the long term\\".  The book is divided into 5 parts - the first two parts focus on analysis of historic data using very unique perspective, mostly with respect to changing membership of SP500 index over the years. In the third part, he discusses the different measures to consider while analysing a company's performance from the shareholders' points of view.   The fifth part is perhaps the most useful for readers seeking investment advice. He provides a sample portfolio based on the priciples he explains in the third and fourth parts of the book.  In addition to percentage allocation for US and non-US markets, he provides allocation targets for some of the specific investment strategies he discusses in the book (these strategies are well discussed and their rationale is convincingly presented; most of them are centered around the dividend paid by the company).  The author also provides a sector analysis of the market over the years and provides his \\"prediction\\" on which three sectors will likely perform the best over the long term.  A real treasure for any long term investor!  it should be pointed out that the analysis dont really address tax implications, but the conclusions derived from the analysis would still likely hold since the strategies focus on long term investing.  <br /> <br />The book is thorough and comprehensive, but explained in an easy manner. Each chapter ends with a summary which provides a succinct representation of the chapter. A detailed list of references/citations used by the author and a set of appendices with more data analysis is also included, and is certainly a resource for any serious investor.  Day traders and speculators may be disappointed with the book, but any long term investor will find this to be a cornerstone of any investment plan.  A must have!	2005-03-13
US	51926785	R1CRKRSU2JQT4A	140006337X	276765210	Hot Commodities : How Anyone Can Invest Profitably in the World's Best Market	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Interesting arguments and great ideas	This book provides arguments for why commodities should not be an over-looked asset class for any diversified portfolio.  The arguments presented in the book are basically derived from observations and intuitive reasoning rather than heavy fundamental or technical analysis. Nevertheless, the book is engaging and presents almost an A to Z of commodities market.  The first part of the book focuses on the historic trends associated with demand/supply of commodities (oil, sugar, etc.) and theorizes that the \\"bull market\\" for commodities is going to be a long term phenomenon.  The next component of the book addresses on how to \\"play\\" the commodities market and explains the functioning of the market with descriptions for colorful terms used by the traders....  The last component of the book looks into the future of a few commodities, with each having an entire chapter devoted to it...coffee, sugar, oil, gold, lead, etc. There is also an interesting (not comprehensive, though)comparison of Indian and Chinese economies. <br /> <br />Readers looking for specific investment vehicles may be disappointed with the book as it lists very few specific funds or stocks to take advantage of the commodities market.  However the reader is most likely to be convinced to take a hard look at his/her portfolio in the light of the arguments presented by Rogers.  <br /> <br />It was surprising to find that the book did not have a list of chapters or table of contents; in addition, only the first chapter had a synopsis. Such editorial oversights diminish the quality of the book, but not the arguments/theories presented in it.  A good read for any investor!	2005-03-13
US	51926785	R9N1CATEZ8SOT	0740721356	667860921	Calvin and Hobbes:  Sunday Pages 1985-1995	Books	5	3	4	N	N	a little bit of perspective...and a lot of fun	The commentary provided by the author on each of the Sunday cominc cartoon included in the collection in itself is worth the book.  Each cartoon is presented twice, though. The left panel is similar to the sketches and the right hand presents the same cartoon in color. Each of the two pages provide a narrative related to the specific cartoon - explaining the artistic characteristics and inspiration for the cartoon....All in all, an excellent addition to any Calvin fan (and which intelligent reader isnt!)	2005-03-06
US	51926785	R1FI7J539MG27	0345444906	959997378	Murder at Union Station (Capital Crimes)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	fast paced, realistic	In a remarkably realistic and fast paced thriller centered around the DC area, Truman's story involves an interestingly woven plot involving an ambitious writer, a past mobster, politics of presidential elections, and personal relations. The characters seem real and well-developed and most of the characters are evolved well throughout the novel.  The unwinding of the plot at the end is a little bit too quick and the sudden acceleration provides the only jarring note in the novel. Other than that, an excellent work with a fairly original plot.  A good read.  <br />	2005-03-03
US	51926785	R10TK0U08Q3P1N	1578519608	299799548	Category Killers: The Retail Revolution and Its Impact on Consumer Culture	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Some new wine , some old wine in new bottle	In a well-written and researched book, Spectre provides a good understanding of the trends impacting retailing and how those changes in retailing impacts our society as a whole. The book is written in three parts - part one providing the background and history of major companies defined as category killers (includes the Walmarts, kmarts, borders, etc and Starbucks!). Here the information contained, though well presented, is essentially nothing new. If this is your first book on retail industry, there is much to be gained from the first part which provides a succinct summary on the origins of the major players in retail industry. You will learn snippets such as Borders was originally part of Kmart and so on...Part two talks more on the trends impacting the industry and how it has evolved, while the third part provides some insights on how things will emerge from now.... The discussions from Chapter 7 onwards is very insightful and provides a good account of what can be expected from the reatiling giants. Discussion on how the companies try to expand to non-US markets and analysis on some of the failures (HomeDepot in Europe, for example) is particularly engaging and informative.  <br />Overall, the book provides a reasonably good account of the future,  an excellent analysis of current trends, and a decent summary of the background. Written in fairly simple language and style, the author manages to keep it entertaining and engaging. A good read.	2005-02-27
US	51926785	RHW2RDQM8MD76	0345458915	730478278	The Sinner	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Chilling, Fast paced and Original	In a remarkably original and fast-paced plot, a series of seemingly unrelated murders slowly unravel themselves. It will be an injustice to a potential reader to give any specifics regarding the plot, lest it reduces the suprise elements of the plot.  The twists and turns in the plot are well timed and it seems they couldnt have come a moment too soon or too late.  The characters are developed very well over the entire novel and are dealt with considerable depth to make them look very original and human.  The narrative style is brisk and never seems artificial...A terrific read!	2005-01-20
US	51926785	R1Z70PO1HJN1OH	1400044006	943036028	Checkpoint: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Rage - Justified or Not	In a remarkably novel narrative style - pure conversation between the only two characters in this novella, Baker provides an interesting take on the issues surrounding US politics.  The war in Iraq is used as a centerpiece, along with divergent topics such as impact of Walmart, abortion, army, Halliburton/Enron, and a multitude of other issues that have gotten more than their share of headlines and extremist talk-show pundits.  While the conversation between the two characters tend to become artifical at times, it is mostly engaging. The viewpoints expressed by either characters provide no new pespectives on the issues, and hence the whole book does not score much on originality.  The book certainly plays to the anti-Bush and anti-war crowd, and attempts to provide a modicum of rational thinking when the main protagonist is being \\"calmed\\" by the other character.  Overall, an easy-read, fairly novel narrative technique, a simple enough plot, strong (albiet, unoriginal) arguments against war and Bush.	2005-01-17
US	51926785	R38EAJ12TZ2O7H	0679428232	590261801	Fine Lines	Books	3	0	0	N	N	good plot, not-so-great narration	In one of his earliest book (released in 1994), Jim shows signs of an author struggling to find a narrative style of his own. The plot, though a very original and well-played out one is marred by lacklustre narration at times. In particular, the use of the exact same sentences over and over again (eg. \\"After all he is my son\\") seems a bit tedious.  Apart from that, the book is fast paced and will certainly keep the reader's interest alive.   <br />It is stunning what 10 years of experience can do for one's narrative skills. In his more recent book (Flying Crows), Jim provides an absolutely captivating narrative style. <br /> <br />Readers looking for a good mystery novel will not be disappointed, but if you got hold of this book after reading Lehrer's more recent books, this will not stand up to expectations.	2005-01-14
US	51926785	R3N6KV7KUA53JZ	0385512236	597559406	The Coming Collapse of the Dollar and How to Profit from It: Make a Fortune by Investing in Gold and Other Hard Assets	Books	3	19	23	N	N	Interesting take, good background, so-so advice	In perhaps one of the better written books on investing in gold and gold related securities, the authors make a plausible case against the dollar. The first part of the book is the best written component of the book and provides a good summary of the various times when currencies have collapsed, using a wide-ranging examples. These examples are then used to abstract a few hypotheses on why the dollar could fail. The impact of government spending, budget deficit, trade deficit are all well explained.  The first part of the book ends with a bold claim - invest in gold only since dollar (hence typical stocks) are doomed to fail. The rationale for that claim is presented in the second part....though well-written, it is not entirely convincing. The third part addresses some investment ideas and other resources worth referring to for additional information. It is surprising that the authors advice a portfolio (in fact three different types - conservative, moderate and aggressive), 100% invested in gold/gold-related stocks. While the general investment community recommends an exposure for gold and other precious metals not to exceed 5-10% of a portfolio, the authors' suggested portfolios are an interesting exception. It would have been nice to see how their portfolio performed using historical data to compare with SP500 or other benchmark. No meaningful comparison is provided, though.  <br />Overall, a well-written book with easy reading style, plenty of charts to represent data, fairly well-organized arguments, but not necessarily the best investment strategy (literally putting all money in one basket)....but certainly a reccomended read, and might give you a different perspective on investing in precious metals and commodities (may be a better bet than real estate, long term).	2005-01-09
US	51926785	R350KZHOHTH123	0465023150	795715955	Selling Women Short: The Landmark Battle for Workers' Rights At Wal-mart	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Excellent reporting, trouble ahead for Walmart?	It is amazing that this book hasnt gotten more attention that it has.  In one of the well-organized, focused book on corporate behavior, Liza presents the basis of the class action lawsuit against the retailing giant - Walmart.  It is really shocking to see that the self-styled conservative retailer seems to be more of a sexist (and some some plaintiffs allege, racist) corporate giant. Even if there is a modicum of truth in the arguments made in this book (which seems to be the case, looking at its well-documented arguments and statement of facts), Walmart may be in trouble. <br /> <br />The allegations reported in the book, mostly part of the class action lawsuit, could have far reaching implications than just changing Walmarts style of functioning. Due to its clout in the retailing industry, its ability to prevent unionization of workers, and a host of other unique business practices, Walmart has been a successful company - financially, at least. This lawsuit may have some unpleasant implications for Walmarts investors as well.  Any one remotely connected to Walmart - shoppers, employees, employees of its major suppliers, investors, industry watchers....all will gain a new perspective from this book. <br /> <br />Liza does try to provide a balanced picture by incorporating Walmarts positions or rebuttals, wherever available. Moreover, theg allegations are presented in a logical manner without any histrionics.   <br /> <br />The first chapter of the book is perhaps the best written.  Though the rest of the book is interesting and well-organized, the stories of the different employees come back to the same point over and over again.  For some parts of chapters 3 and 4, it gets a little bit monotonous. Other than that, the book is an excellent read.	2004-12-11
US	51926785	R19J6ZJQX5JINM	0471649368	255881696	Stock Trader's Almanac 2005 (Almanac Investor Series)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Useful, useful, useful	This is a perfect antidote to all who are convinced that stock market is nothing more than speculation, or as others put it a \\"random\\" walk.  This is an excellent resource for any \\"technical\\" investor or observer of market mega trends.  In a very easy-to-read format, pertinent information for each trading day is provided to help form a general sense of what trading can be expected based on historical trends. The probability of that direction is also clearly stated helping the reader to \\"weigh\\" the observed patterns with his or her own specific strategy. The information is available for different time horizons - daily, week and month.  The value of the information is evident from the fact that the almanac has existed for a really long time (1976, I believe).  This is a must-have for anyone who has some conviction in the power of historical data, technical investing, and a reasonable doubt on the theory of market efficiency. Happy trading in 2005! <br />	2004-11-15
US	51926785	R2BO754C7ZTW5V	006054578X	205727960	In Praise of Slowness: How A Worldwide Movement Is Challenging the Cult of Speed	Books	4	9	11	N	N	simple message, profound effects	Using a wide range of personal observations, the book provides an interesting way to look at the hustle-bustle of modern day life, especially in the western world.  The underlying theme of the book is that western lifestyle imposes an artificial sense of urgency and productivity which forces people to adopt manners and thought processes, which the author finds to be undesirable. He makes his arguments on a number of broad issues such as food habits, city planning, sex, etc.  There is certainly a \\"new age\\" flavor to some of the arguments, but it needs to be pointed out the basic philosophy touted in the book is nothing new to Eastern religions (as correctly stated by the author). Being a follower of one of those Eastern religions, I think that the author does a praiseworthy job of presenting profound philosophical paradigms in relatively down-to-earth style - beneficial to those not familiar with Eastern religions.  However, there is no religious bend to the arguments and the author uses secular reasoning to make a simple premise - slow down!  A good read, though don't rush it.  One of those books which is tempting to be read in one sitting, but shouldn't!	2004-10-17
US	51926785	RNETKUPJH3QQX	1400061970	791655783	Flying Crows: A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Great narration, gripping	In a well-told narrative, that goes back and forth two main protagonists in two different time periods, Lehrer examines complex ities and simplicties associated with life. The characters are earthy, realistic and distinctive. The book has its share of warmth, an element of pain, revolt and nostalgia.  However, the premise, some elements of the plot, and the narrative technique of juxtaposing two different time periods has a strong resemblance to a Katzenbach novel (A madmans tale). Regardless, the plot's underpinngs lie in historical facts, which are well-researched. Lehrer manages to portray the grim incidents with a respectful sense of awe. A wonderful page-turner, not an entirely unique narrative technique or premise, but you will not be able to resist reading the novel in one sitting.	2004-10-01
US	51926785	R32QVIHXCO4385	0060542705	398603551	A Term at the Fed: An Insider's View	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting, Informative....	In a remarkably eloquent and narrative style, Meyer manages to portray the activities at the Fed and Greenspan. His discussion on the asian financial crisis, the famous quote - \\"irrational exuberance\\", stock market bubbles, and 9-11 attacks are informative and provide a rings side view of policy making at the highest levels. Though, the author touches upon the events following 9-11 in about 3-4 pages (opposed to the chapters on the other crises and Greenspan's personality) itself, this reviewer felt that more impetus could have placed to hihglight how the Fed helped financial markets back on their feet after the terrorist strikes.  Meyer provides an excellent snap shot of the events leading to equity bubble and how much the Fed tried to influence the circumstances (proactively and reactively) using monetary policy. One can also get a good understanding how the FOMC operates on a daily basis.  <br /> <br />The easy-going, down-to-earth narrative style and some amount self-effacing humor makes the book interesting. One can hope that his comment that Meyer wanted to return to private sector since \\"running down one's wealth as a governor (paid around 100-125k) may not allow to retire well\\" is an attempted joke!	2004-09-28
US	51926785	R23XOLLRDLM25J	0375508465	558619526	The Truth About the Drug Companies: How They Deceive Us and What to Do About It	Books	4	15	26	N	N	informative, alarmist, over-simplistic analysis	This is certainly an attention-grabbing book (and a screaming title boot). The title could however have changed to \\"Some truths and some allegations...\\".  There is no doubt that the pharmaceutical companies do not have halos nor do they profess to have them. It is clear that they do engage in practices that are legal, yet may raise ethical questions.  The basic premise of the book is based on three fundamental assertions of the author - Pharma doesnt spend much on research and development, Pharma's marketing budgets are too huge, and Pharma plays legal games to extend patent lifes... <br />The author describes what she perceives as a lack of innovation among Pharma companies and their dependence on university research using some isolated examples. While it is certain that there are instances where the basic premise of the author seems to be justified, it is certainly not a scenario where her observations can be extrapolated to provide a generalized statement on all Pharma companies.  After discussing various aspects of research, the author sheepishly admits (after over 150 pages), that Pharma companies are owned by investors and need to protect their interest! what a breakthrough!  Trying to increasing shareholder value is certainly not a crime when legal channels are being pursued. That is not to say that examples such as that involving Taft Labs do not exist, and that illegal practices do exist in the industry...but it doesnt seem to be as wide-spread as the author seems to want everyone believe.  One fo the startling discussion is on FDA's method of approving new drugs - apparantely it just need to be proved that a drug is better than no drug at all for it to be approved...no comparisons to existing drugs is required, and there are incredibly few studies which perform head-to-head comparisons. That certainly is a valid problem and the author has served well to bring it to the attention. (but, are the companies to be blamed for that? It their lobbying as powerfulthan public pressure? If it is so, it reflects poorly on the average public, and not on the companies themselves.).  Regardless of the over-drawn conclusions and the very generous extrapolative reasoning to arrive at those conclusions, the book does raise valid questions.  It is well-written, easy-to-read, and well-documented though it is jarred from the slight alarmist tone at times. Informative, but not complete discussion on almost all of the issues raised by the  author. A must-read for anyone remotely connected to the industry - patient, physicians, investors.  But dont expect a complete and fair discussion.	2004-09-15
US	51926785	R2P21XKN67SNL5	0684868806	833190956	The Fortune Tellers: Inside Wall Street's Game of Money, Media and Manipulation	Books	4	0	0	N	N	fast paced, no-analysis, pure narration	In a remarkably well-narrated book, Kurtz, highlights the inordinate amount of power TV business program anchors and their guests have on stock volatility.  Though the book focuses on the \\"bubble\\" era, the mechanisms of stock price manipulation, intended or coincidental, are equally applicable today as it did in the Internet craze.  <br /> <br />Despite the well narrated story lines including many of the better known financial journalists, the book does not build on the few themes introduced in the first chapter itself. After a couple of chapters, the author's take on CNBC anchors' behavior on market movement is predictable. However, the story regarding the development of CNBC, Dobb/CNNfn, Fox, bloomberg, is entertaining, though wouldnt pass as a comprehensive history guide. The focus on Kramer for most part of the book is a bit annoying as well, though the use of thestreet.com's story reveals some interesting aspects of mergers/buy-outs, etc.  <br /> <br />In short, a fairly good read, not a great level of details, but clearly highlights (over and over) the impact of journalists on stock prices (as if you needed this book to tell you), intertwined with good story lines on TV persona and journalists.	2004-09-08
US	51926785	R2QEI9YTWYZHQ5	0312286449	862049541	Desert Places	Books	2	5	8	N	N	perverse, gripping tale	Debut or not, the book is a perverse gripping tale of horror....though the central characters are stereotypical of any of the genre, the conversations are well depicted.  Not a single chapter in the book is devoid of torture or gruesome details of some murder....it is definetly not a book for light reading. Though the plot reeks of perverse and sadistic-masochistic themes, it is well-written and fast-paced.	2004-08-22
US	51926785	RCNGSW3YW61MO	0345464818	932499618	The Madman's Tale: A Novel (Katzenbach, John)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fast-paced, smart, enjoyable	It is incredibly difficult to find any flaw in this book. An excellent plot, developed well incrementally and excitingly in each page.  The narration style used by the author is a smart innovation of mixing present-past scenarios. Alternatively using a protagonist narrator to describe present-tense incidents and then using the same narrator to re-live the past, the author sustains and builds interest in the rapidly evolving plot. The twists in the plot are not evern barely predictable....the type of twists the plot takes and their timing makes the story an excellent read.  It is difficult not to miss the resemblence of the female prosecutor's character with a similar one in Hannibal, but that is the only minute case I can make for being nit-picking. Otherwise, the characters are original and their personalities well developed over the book. An excellent read!	2004-08-22
US	51926785	R1WLFZQWP2HQHR	0195158679	70573602	Beyond the Random Walk: A Guide to Stock Market Anomalies and Low Risk Investing	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Well-written, convincing....if you are a trader...	This is definetly one of the better written books on the subject. Singal presents several &quot;market anomalies&quot; and discusses strategies as to how to benefit from them. However, most of them have holding periods of a couple of days to a few weeks at the most. A long-term investor may not find the strategies mentioned here very useful. Of particular appeal to mid-to-long term investors may be the discussion on SP500 additions and deletions, and mutual fund pricing. It may offer some tips on when to committ additional funds to mutual funds. However, the increased pressure on market timers and related activities, increasing redemption fees, trading costs, tax implications and the sheer amount of time required to monitor the strategies, the techniques of the author provide for good academic discussion and not as much as practical &quot;tips&quot;. Nevertheless, the market situations, suggested techniques, evidence and possible explanations, citations are well presented and logically organized. A must-read for traders and investors alike, though for different reasons. <br />	2004-07-28
US	51926785	R1DY33R0J24KK	0151010188	524376144	The Cheating Culture: Why More Americans Are Doing Wrong to Get Ahead	Books	3	4	8	N	N	a long-drawn book to make a simple point	The lucidly written book's purpose is to determine &quot;why&quot; there is so much cheating in the society. The book does an excellent job of describing &quot;where&quot; and &quot;how&quot;...but a poor job of any attempt to ponder on the question of &quot;why&quot;. The narrative style of the book makes it interesting to read...but the theme is so repetetive even the good narrative style doesnt add much value to the reader. For the patient reader, some not-so-talked about stories of campaigns run by the US Army may prove to be interesting. Arguably, the best section of the book was the author's mini-diatribe against conservatives where he claims that conservatives &quot;read every other page of the Bible&quot; when he compares the importance of material rewards and traditional 'virtues'.  <br />The examples mentioned in the book are cited well, and the sporadic, but welcome discussion based on social theories, also provides some good points to ponder.  The last portion of the book, dealing with a &quot;new contract...&quot;, seems more like a utopian dream of a drunk idealist...Nevertheless, a well-presented book, with a simple point to make (well made, but the necessary length to make that point could have saved quite a few trees).	2004-06-17
US	51926785	R3C7CS20T8UP3X	0618334661	847790169	Reefer Madness: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market	Books	4	1	1	N	N	comprehensive, analytical.....but not well organized	The premise of the book is simple - the impact of black market in three different fields -  drug (specifically pot), porn, and illegal immigrants is much more than acknowledged...but the organization of the book doesn't live up to the reputation of the author.  Both books by the author, undoubtedly deserves critical acclaim and serious attention. However, the current book pales in comparison with the well-organized, single-themed Fast Food Nation.  Nevertheless, the book does raise interesting questions in an apolitical way and each of the three disparate segments in the book is a great &quot;essay&quot; in itself.  Each of the segments uses a slightly different narrative style ranging from reporting to some character profiling, all interspersed with some stark observations and interesting questions. For any of the three problems highlighted in the book, the author doesn't offer any analysis on what needs to be done to alleviate any of the issues raised. That drawback diminishes the value of the arguments to a small extent. Apart from the above minor complaint and the lack of a common thread connecting the three topics, the book is an excellent read and is highly recommended for any serious reader.	2004-01-30
US	51926785	R1WCOK303EOG47	1585421146	269500890	Every Drop for Sale: Our Desperate Battle Over Water	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good thesis....but proof?	An excellent book on discussing the perils of ignoring the scarcity of water resources...It provides a fairly chilling account of what has potentially gone wrong in water management projects in different parts of the world. The book also discusses the use of water as a potential war/bargaining tool as discussed in the context of an early Arab plan to divert the Jordan River from Israel and Turkey/Syria skirmishes related to Kurdish unrest in that region. After reading those segments, one cant help but wonder why these issues are not discussed with more sense of urgency.  <br />Though the book provides some interesting &quot;facts and figures&quot;, most of its arguments is based on author's own intrepretation and not much independent confirmations. Some of the arguments degenerate to what can be percieved as political agenda, while some of the arguments, ironically, doesnt hold any water.  The author does deserve credit for the well thought thesis and discussion on the premises..The arguments on &quot;why&quot; and &quot;what&quot; went wrong could have risen above personal opinion/speculation...<br />The narration is interesting, and the author spices the discussion with some character sketches..A good read, but will be disappointed if you are looking for the book to live up to the hype its title could convey...	2004-01-30
US	51926785	R1DK1J1TWYNFN6	0375508821	837762579	Final Witness: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	legal thriller with a difference	I have to admit that the main reason I picked up this book to read was the last name of the author...and an interesting escape route by the author's statement cautioning against any comparison with his famous grandfather....<BR>This novel is probably one of the better written legal thrillers with not as much emphasis on court room dramatics and unrealistic plot twists.  The story is well-written - few characters (though the depth of character portrayal leaves much room for improvement) seen in the context of a murder..in different angles...legal, romance, family relations, and emotions...<BR>The story at times seems to be very predictable...but the author manages to sustain a high level of interest throughout the book. A worthy first effort by an author who has to live up to huge expectations imposed by his surname.  Readers trying to find another Grisham will be disappointed...Simon gives uses the murder story as the canvas to bring to light some complex human interactions...	2003-05-11
US	51926785	R81M7P39B43FA	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting, Feel-good, Unrealistic	One of the few Grisham novels in which the lead character seems far too unrealistic, that too for a lawyer. Unless Grisham intended to make such a wild swing of character to emphasize the &quot;dramatic&quot; effect his trauma and experience has had on the character, it just seems implausible.  <br />The plot, however, is interesting, fairly fast-paced,and original. The sub-plots involving the main character's marriage seems to be present only because a need for a sub-plot was felt.  <br />The plight of the homeless is perhaps the aspect in the novel that deserves the most attention. It will most certainly make any reader ponder what he/she may be able to do to improve the plight of the homeless.<br />The usual narrative, easy-reading style of Grisham is evident in this novel as well, and readers familiar with his style wont be disappointed. This is certainly one of his better books in terms of theme, not the best in terms of executing the plot.  A must read for all Grisham fans (you could care less for reviews, any way!) and a fairly good introduction to Grisham, if you havent been introduced to this author.	2003-04-14
US	51926785	R25DQIANJUVEW1	0465072550	783595458	Avoiding Armageddon	Books	5	5	5	N	N	World issues...analysis and solutions....one view	In a classic example to the power of anecdotal style of writing for discussing \\"serious\\" issues, Schram is successful in conveying the perils faced by the world (mostly from the Western, and more specifically from the US point of view). The book has been organized into distinct and independent sections covering various aspects of the terrorist threats. The author does manage to convey important ideas and some potential solutions (mostly utopian dreams) to the problems identified in each section (the identification of the problem and the analysis of the origins of the problems are well discussed and documented). Of particular interest were the section on nuclear threat in the South Asia, and the interview with terrorist \\"planner\\" from Al-Queda. In the former, the author provides a chilling array fo scenarios of what could happen if indeed a nuclear war does erupt in South Asia. The dangers of \\"fog of war\\" , quoting mostly Pakistani army personnel and US analysts makes for some compelling reading. The section also provides an interesting account of how the two main players - India and Pakistan became nuclear players from the seemingly innocent \\"atoms of peace\\" program. The role of the West (particularly US and Canada) in the case of India and the role of China (in Pakistan's program) is well discussed. The author fails to provide any \\"reasonable and practical\\" solutions to defuse the tense situations. The same holds true for most of the book - good discussions on problem statement and description, fairly good analysis, not-so-great proposed solution methods. There is also a section on what ordinary citizens and \\"world leaders\\" can do to decrease the threats mentioned in the book..makes for some interesting reading, but doubtful if any foreign policy framers would abide by it, given the political framework the foreign poliocy decisions have to depend on. <br />Overall, the book is well-organized, written for easy reading, avoids political hyperboles (though a tinge ofleftist agenda is noticable at times), and provides an excellent summary pf the origins of most of the current threats we face as a world . A must read for anyone remotely interested in current affairs, foreign policy and modern history.	2003-04-14
US	51926785	R25SZPMPTZFACS	0767910710	252453585	The Great Mutual Fund Trap: An Investment Recovery Plan	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Informative and Interesting	An informative book presented in a very interesting, narrative, humoros, easy reading style. The main &quot;pitfalls&quot; associated with mutual funds, right from selecting it based on Morningstar ratings (even they admit their reliance on past performance than future potential - as the authors put it that is somethhing anyone can predict it with as much sophistication as tossing a coin).  Though the book is interestingly presented, some of the main points in the books seems like a recurring theme...need for indexing, diversification, picking no-load funds, look at expense ratios, etc.  Some of the studies mentioned are worthwhile.  However, another book, &quot;&quot;Take on the Street: What...&quot; By Levitt also presents almost identical themes for the mutual fund sections.  <br />The authors make their points in a very humoros manner (poor CNBC - most of the jokes are on its expense).  A good book for anyone who has invested or plan to invest. Reading this book or the one by Levitt is an absolute must. Reading both will reinforce the good points!	2003-04-13
US	51926785	R37JMCNB6F1SDH	1586481231	381855571	High and Mighty: SUVs--The World's Most Dangerous Vehicles and How They Got That Way	Books	4	4	5	N	N	In-depth expose	Bradsher does an excellent job in presenting a &quot;fairly&quot; balanced account of the history of SUVs and their impact from a variety of different angles - (i) business angle: profit motivation of Detroit, trade rules and Japanese companies, 'special interest groups' (ii) consumer angle: over-rated safety of the vehicles, and the impact of &quot;bigger is better&quot; attitude (iii) government angle - failed regulatory approaches under US presidents of both parties, pressure tactics from Unions, tax money on research subsidy, and (iv) environmental angle (needs any explanation?)<br />It is apparent from the writing style that Bradsher is passionately against these vehicles. That passion, however, doesnt seem to erode his balanced approach used in this well-organised book. Better use of citations to better explain the sources of his arguments could have added more credibility to the book. It could also have benefitted by having direct quotes from the industry's safety experts (most quotes are given by anonymous safety specialists).  Despite some leanings towards an agenda that could be construed as &quot;leftist&quot;, Bradsher presents a compelling and well-researched case against these vehicles, and presented in a non-patronizing tone.<br />Sadly, that strength is apparently not enough to explain the ever-increasing demand for the SUVs. <BR>An excellent book, a must-read for anyone who is remotely interested in automobile industry or the environment (and those souls who are planning to buy a SUV  - Beware: you will buy a sedan or wait for a inexpensive electric car)	2003-02-23
US	51926785	R3E6BACEBITK99	0375421785	966079498	Take on the Street: What Wall Street and Corporate America Don't Want You to Know	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Timely and Honest Assessment	The topics discussed in each chapter exudes the experience of the author. The down-to-earth narrative style used in the book makes it readable to even absolute novices in the investment domain. For the individual investor, three specific chapters are of utmost importance - the one on mutual funds, one on reading financial companies, and the one on 401 (k) plans. The rest of the chapters explain very convincingly the author's views on what is 'wrong' with the ways in which corporates and brokers make money.  Arguably, there is nothing wrong with them trying to make a profit for their services, but the author questions the not-so-ethical ways in which it is done.<br />The book also provides some insights as to who are the most &quot;vocal&quot;, if not influential, U.S. Senators/Representatives for legislation concerning the problems identified by the author.<br />At various chapters, the author also provides some interesting websites that can aid any individual investor to know more about the ways in which corporates publish their earnings and income statements, and the ways in which brokers go about their business.<br />A must-read for anyone who has a single dollar in the financial market.	2003-02-22
US	51926785	R38UE292Q1PIXN	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	3	1	1	N	N	thin plot, ok pace....not the best, but good	A far cry from the legal dramas that one can expect from Grirsham.  A fairly thin plots with a flood of turning points in the end.  Good narrative style as in other books of his, but the plot is not sufficient enough to keep a quick pace. Nevertheless, it is a story with few characters well told and leaves a feeling of existence of divine justice after one has read the book...One certainly expects a much better plot from Grisham and this book alone should not be held against him. There seems to be a slight change in his plot development methods from &quot;painted house&quot;.  Maybe the next book will tell.  One can hope that it is better than &quot;the summons&quot;. Overall, a good read, nothing to be really excited about....one for the lazier weekends..	2002-10-20
US	51926785	R14AG3CGKPZC3C	0399148922	428590811	We'll Laugh Again	Books	5	9	9	N	N	simple, elegant humor	In a remarkable journey, often nostalgic, Art is able to provide a sense of introspection through humor. Nobody escapes his treatment - senate, congress, diplomats, lobbyists, FBI, supreme court, presidents, talking heads, and the average &quot;Joe&quot;.  Often mixed with gentle irony, each &quot;snippet&quot; makes a point elegantly.  His reflections on the Sep 11 tragedy is moving.  The changing scenario with respect to homeland security and the new &quot;thought processes&quot; in Washington provides an opportunity to see the sometimes illogical aspects of our new lives. Overall, an excellent collection, reminding once again why Art is such a beloved personality in the newspaper world for such a long time. A must-read.	2002-10-18
US	51926785	R37MZ2OQELKW50	0316150487	925598518	The Perfect Store: Inside eBay	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting well-researched story, not-so-well told	Cohen does a wonderful job of trying to find as much information he could on the history of the auctionweb, the formation of eBay Cafe, and the now-familar story of &quot;ebay&quot;. Little-known stories on the users in the various &quot;forum&quot; in auctionweb and the later incarnations of eBay makes interesting reading.  The book does bring to light some excellent &quot;anecdote&quot;-type of accounts of almost all the main players in the eBay formation.  However, the author's objective credibility comes to a grinding hault very soon into the book...He for some reason, seemed to have been over-powered by the &quot;community&quot; aspects of the story and becomes more or less a cheerleader for eBay. Not much discussion was focused on the business model of eBay - which was somewhat disappointing.  The book could have used a little more attention in organizing the anecdotes and make it look less like a diary written in a hurry.  However, nothing should take away the fantastic effort by the author in researching for the book and trying to present it in as &quot;novel&quot;-like as possible.  Easily readable book, with no major claim for any literary standards.  Overall, a nice &quot;fictional&quot; book on eBay, with no analysis on business model of eBay and sometimes degenrating into a huge advertisement for the &quot;cult&quot; image of eBay users and community (of which I am a proud member!)	2002-09-21
US	51926785	R3G7TBW2BGTXGD	0786867892	379987605	Noble Obsession: Charles Goodyear, Thomas Hancock, and the Race to Unlock the Greatest Industrial Secret of the Nineteenth Century	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Informative and Entertaining	It is amazing how well the story of rubber has been told in a lucid and entertaining manner. The book is well-researched and has authentic references.  Slack uses an easy reading narrative style to bring out the poignant story of rubber. The drama involving various &quot;actors&quot; from both sides of the Atlantic has been told in a way that arouses suspense page-by-page. The court battles involving Goodyear (and Webster) and the hacks is well told. In all, an informative story that truly establishes the relative place in history of all the key players in the story of rubber - inital failures to vulcanisation.  A great read!	2002-09-03
US	51926785	R1CF468O4PMOS4	0060008806	464862171	Dot.Con: The Greatest Story Ever Sold	Books	4	2	2	N	N	no news...&quot;history&quot; well told	The all-too-familiar story of dizzying internet stock proces is told in an entertaining and reasonably sound manner. Though the book fails to bring to light anything new, it does provide an excellent summary of the events that led to the technological development, and the financial aspect of the 90's stock frenzy. While reading this book, we should keep in mind that predicting the past is not exactly difficult thing to do.Barring from a few embarrasing typos, the book is well presented and definetly deserves to be read..provides some good reference materials also in case anyone is interested to check up where the author brings his quotes or figures.  Generally, a pleasurable reading experience and may learn a new &quot;anecdote&quot; or two about the Internet boom and gloom.	2002-05-10
