US	51938214	R1H200WUEISYDK	006019247X	173288464	Human Accomplishment: The Pursuit of Excellence in the Arts and Sciences, 800 B.C. to 1950	Books	5	18	22	N	N	The Uniqueness of Western Civilization	Charles Murray, the leading Sociologist of our time, sets out on a topic worthy of his talents when he investigates the great human achievements of civilization.  Murray begins by operationalizing achievement, that is, measuring accomplishments in arts and sciences.  To do so Murray examines texts on various subjects and those achievements that are mentioned most often receive the highest rating. Measuring accomplishment will strike some as subjective rather than objective. Hence, many readers will be put off in the early stages of the book. It's a shame, since the operationalizing of accomplishment is only his first step. And the data itself should strike no one as surprising or biased. Is there any doubt that Newton made the most significant individual contributions to Physics?  Or that Pasteur was the most important figure in medicine? Perhaps the arts are harder to measure, but is there any doubting the dominance of Shakespeare in literature, or that of Michelangelo in art? After gathering the data on accomplishment, Murray begins to break it down. By far the most striking feature of the data is the fact that a stunning 97 percent of human accomplishment comes from Europe and North America in years since 1400. Why should this be? Some of Murray's answers are not surprising: Freedom contributes to achievement, and Western Civilization has generally been the freest.  Similarly, belief in God and a higher purpose contributes to an individual's willingness to tax himself harder in order achieve something for the greater good.  More surprisingly, however, are some of the unique characteristics of Western Civilization that are not found elsewhere: An emphasis on individualism rather than familism, debate instead of consensus, work rather than duty.  All these traits are necessary for the advancement of scientific progress.  Without them individuals will not take risks, tackle the status quo, or devote themselves unceasingly to esoteric projects.  Western Civilization in past six hundred years has been the only culture to have had these traits.  Our contributions to Civilization are a direct result of the way our culture is organized.  If we are to continue to make progress it is imperative that these traits not disappear.zation in past six hundred years has been the only culture to have had these traits.  Our contributions to Civilization are a direct result of the way our culture is organized.  If we are to continue to make progress it is imperative that these traits not disappear.    <br />	2004-08-01
US	51938214	R2CWFN1HPP4YZV	0609610392	657318818	How Wars Are Won: The 13 Rules of War - from Ancient Greece to the War on Terror	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Winning With Indirect Methods	Noted Military Historian Bevin Alexander's latest effort represents an expansion of BH Liddell Hart's work. In his classic text on strategy, Liddell Hart differentiates between direct and indirect methods of warfare, and finds the latter to be by far the more successful approach. Liddell Hart does not examine different types of indirect action, however, and this is where Alexander's work comes in. Alexander begins with the premise that frontal assaults against fortified positions should never be attempted. Attacks should always come from the side or rear. This has the advantage of striking the enemy where they are weaker, and perhaps more importantly, it throws them off psychologically, disorienting, and frightening them. Alexander lists thirteen such variations on these same ideas, such as encirclement, holding in one place and striking another, creating diversions, cutting of the enemy's retreat, etc. Each method receives its own chapter, accompanied by several historical examples of the successful execution of the tactic, usually taken from as many different eras as possible. Of particular note are the examples taken from Stonewall Jackson's campaigns, a subject on which Alexander is one of the leading authorities. In writing this work it seems clear that Alexander is trying to place himself in line with the classics of military theory: Sun-Tzu, Clausewitz, Liddell Hart. Only time will tell whether or not he achieves this lofty goal.  In the meantime there is little doubt that this fascinating and well-written work should be closely examined military strategists, historians, and armchair generals.	2004-04-23
US	51938214	R1DNEECT42I5YC	1579122558	802853991	Leveling the Field: An Encyclopedia of Baseball's All-Time Great Performances as Revealed Through Scientifically Adjusted Statistics	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	The Best System for Evaluating Pitchers	Although this book has some obvious and well-documented flaws, it is the first system created that allows for a fair assessment of pitchers from all time periods. That alone is a very important contribution, and one that has generally been overlooked so far. Thomas idea for the book is simple: Create a baseline from one five-year time period (1996-2000) from which to compare all players based on the performance levels in those years. There are of course some flaws with the idea, as well as with Thomas' own execution of it. Certainly the game changes for one, and its hard to act as if doesn't. For example, the innings thrown for the pitchers from the dead-ball era are simply too high: Pitchers could throw many innings then since hitting was much harder. Estimating how many equivalent innings that would be in today's game is both impossible and irrelevent. The computerized playoffs Thomas sets up are also a bit fruitless. Why should we believe his simulations more than what actually happened? The statistics for hitters, however, are more useful. It gives a good idea of what a player who hit in a power-poor era would produce today. It also makes one appreciate the hitting prowess of the great sluggers like Williams, Ruth, and Mantle. The major flaw is that this system cannot take into account a hitter's protection in the lineup, so a player hitting on a good team, like Lou Gehrig, will look better than he actually was. I believe that for hitters, the Bill James win shares system is superior, but this system should not be so easily dismissed.<br />The great contribution of this system, however, is in its ability to allow for a fair comparison of pitchers. The Win Shares system comes up short on this standard, since it seeks an absolute number of win shares won. This would obviously favor players from the dead ball era when pitchers could throw many more games. And nearly all the top players in the Win Shares system are from the dead ball era, while modern stars like Roger Clemens and Greg Maddux languish out of the top ten. Leveling the Field is superior in this regard since it does not seek absolute numbers, but relative ones: What would a player's ERA be in a controlled environment? And when we look at it in these terms we find that modern players match up just fine with the old timers: Thomas' lists of greatest pitchers are fairly even matched throughout baseball history, with pitchers from all eras represented. Furthermore, it also clears up a current debate that has been simmering for several years: Who is the greatest pitcher of this generation, Clemens or Maddux?  It turns out that Maddux is the better pitcher, and it isn't even that close. Maddux career ERA is 3.05 while Clemens is 3.38. Furthermore, Maddux top seasons were all better that Clemens. In fact, they were even better than Pedro Martinez. It turns out that Maddux best seasons are the best ever, topping even Walter Johnson himself. There are plenty of other interesting things to be found here, like the fact that Randy Johnson has posted better numbers than Sandy Koufax and that Bob Gibson really did not have the greatest pitching season ever in 1968. This book has some very important uses, but baseball fans haven't picked up on it yet. It may be time to take another look.er Clemens and Greg Maddux languish out of the top ten. Leveling the Field is superior in this regard since it does not seek absolute numbers, but relative ones: What would a player's ERA be in a controlled environment? And when we look at it in these terms we find that modern players match up just fine with the old timers: Thomas' lists of greatest pitchers are fairly even matched throughout baseball history, with pitchers from all eras represented. Furthermore, it also clears up a current debate that has been simmering for several years: Who is the greatest pitcher of this generation, Clemens or Maddux?  It turns out that Maddux is the better pitcher, and it isn't even that close. Maddux career ERA is 3.05 while Clemens is 3.38. Furthermore, Maddux top seasons were all better that Clemens. In fact, they were even better than Pedro Martinez. It turns out that Maddux best seasons are the best ever, topping even Walter Johnson himself. There are plenty of other interesting things to be found here, like the fact that Randy Johnson has posted better numbers than Sandy Koufax and that Bob Gibson really did not have the greatest pitching season ever in 1968. This book has some very important uses, but baseball fans haven't picked up on it yet. It may be time to take another look.	2003-10-04
US	51938214	R3M9TP18CK2ZRS	0801488028	903647741	America Unrivaled: The Future of the Balance of Power (Cornell Studies in Security Affairs)	Books	4	28	28	N	Y	The Unipolar Moment?	This collection of essays seeks to explain why, despite its overwhelming power, the world has not balanced against the United States. Several well-noted authors give varying answers. The first essay, appropriately enough, is written by the founder of Structural Realism, Kenneth Waltz. Waltz answer is simply that the world will eventually balance against American power, and in fact has started to do so already. Waltz explains that in an anarchic system,\\"overwhelming power repels, and leads others to balance against it.\\" Furthermore, Waltz sees Unipolarity as unstable, as the hegemon may be tempted to overexpand. Waltz concludes that the unipolar moment is exactly that, a brief time in history that will be over the blink of an eye. But Waltz made much the same case in 1993. The world has not yet balanced against the US, and history has yet to prove him right. Taking the opposite approach, William C. Wohlforth argues that the current unipolar system is actually very stable. This is so due to several factors. First, Wohlforth notes that balancing is very difficult to successfully execute. Also, unlike previous hegemons, America's power is so great that it crosses the threshold where balancing against it becomes impossible. Also unlike previous hegemons, the US is not located geographically nearby the other powers. Therefore, it does not directly threaten most states as much as their neighbors do. It is therefore better for states to rely on the US for protection from its own neighbors, than to balance against America. Wohlforth thus sees a continuation of the peaceful relations that have existed since the end of the Cold War. These two essays are most likely the ones that will receive the most attention since they predict future events based on structure. But somewhat dissapointingly, neither addresses the argument made by John Mearsheimer in his book that other states will not necessarily balance against the United States itself, but against the United States in their respective regions. Mearsheimer, unlike Wohlforth, does not see the system as global but regional. Therefore China will balance against US power in the Far East, not against global US power and interests. Mearsheimers's argument fall somewhere between Waltz and Wohlforth. Its a shame neither one addresses it.<br />The other articles in this book are more policy-oriented. Charles Kupchan claims that it will be very hard to sustain domestic support in America for the resources necessary to maintain unipolarity. He also believes the EU to be much farther along the road to unity than most realize, and he sees a balance of power between the US and EU in the future. Stephen Walt, advancing his balance of threat hypothesis, urges American policymakers to act and speak in a restrained manner, which will convince the world that the US does not have aggressive designs. Josef Joffe praises the US policy of overlapping alliances as a copy of Bismark's hub and spoke system, which he believes will serve to create a peaceful world, due to America's overwhelming capabilities. There are also some non-realist authors who make the case for other variables. John Ikenberry advances the importance of international institutions in creating a peaceful world, arguing that the \\"Western order has a structure of institutions and open polities that bind states together, thereby mitigating the implications of power assymetries and reducing the possibilities of the United States to abandon or dominate other states.\\" Ikenberry argues that insitutions have a life of their own and make it difficult for states to do other than what the institutions specify. Its not a new theory, and realist critiques will most likely be the same: Instiutions do what states want them to do, not vice-versa. Although there are no realist critiques of the Ikenberry piece in this volume, it is hard to imagine any realist worth his weight in salt arguing otherwise.respective regions. Mearsheimer, unlike Wohlforth, does not see the system as global but regional. Therefore China will balance against US power in the Far East, not against global US power and interests. Mearsheimers's argument fall somewhere between Waltz and Wohlforth. Its a shame neither one addresses it. <br />The other articles in this book are more policy-oriented. Charles Kupchan claims that it will be very hard to sustain domestic support in America for the resources necessary to maintain unipolarity. He also believes the EU to be much farther along the road to unity than most realize, and he sees a balance of power between the US and EU in the future. Stephen Walt, advancing his balance of threat hypothesis, urges American policymakers to act and speak in a restrained manner, which will convince the world that the US does not have aggressive designs. Josef Joffe praises the US policy of overlapping alliances as a copy of Bismark's hub and spoke system, which he believes will serve to create a peaceful world, due to America's overwhelming capabilities. There are also some non-realist authors who make the case for other variables. John Ikenberry advances the importance of international institutions in creating a peaceful world, arguing that the \\"Western order has a structure of institutions and open polities that bind states together, thereby mitigating the implications of power assymetries and reducing the possibilities of the United States to abandon or dominate other states.\\" Ikenberry argues that insitutions have a life of their own and make it difficult for states to do other than what the institutions specify. Its not a new theory, and realist critiques will most likely be the same: Instiutions do what states want them to do, not vice-versa. Although there are no realist critiques of the Ikenberry piece in this volume, it is hard to imagine any realist worth his weight in salt arguing otherwise.	2003-06-16
US	51938214	RUTL6GI6EFWXJ	030435967X	423622789	The Punic Wars	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Bringing the Ancient World to Life	Over two thousand years ago, the Ancient World was thrust into three major conflicts that not only changed the course of antiquity, but the course of the world as we know it today. The three wars fought between Rome and Carthage between 264 and 146 BC gave rise to the Roman Empire, and Rome's subsequent influence on World History. Despite its importance, however, the Punic Wars are not well-known to those outside the insular world of the Classics. Adrian Goldsworthy has provided a great service by making these world wars of antiquity accesible to the modern reader and the general public. Doing so is no easy task, considering the incomplete record that one has to cope with whenever writing about the ancient world. Goldsworthy manages to put together his history based partially on the primary works of the ancient writers Polybius, Livy, and Appian (while noting each one's shortcomings) and partially on the more recent excavations of the battle sites. The result is a fluid narrative, albeit one that a reader used to accounts of more recent history might find frustrating, since a good deal of information is still uncertain.<br />Of the three Punic Wars, the Second (Hannibalic) is covered in the greatest detail. While nearly everyone knows that Hannibal crossed the Alps with his elephants, few know how he managed to do so. And the losses that his armies suffered en route are even less well-known. Once it Italy, Hannibal won victory after victory, culminating in the massacre at Cannae in 216, still regarded as the most one-sided battle ever. Despite this, the Romans fought on, with a stubborness and determinedness that eventually won them all three wars. How they did so remains one of the most fascinating and instructive historical tales of all time. The implications of the wars of antiquity are many. For a historian, the importance of these wars in shaping the ancient and modern worlds should be examined. For the military strategist, it is worth comparing the strategies of ancient generals to glean information of the conduct and theory of war. And the political scientist, forever complaining about the lack of \\"qualitative\\" data (eg, historical examples), should began incorporating the wars of the ancient world, as well as those of the modern, into their theories of state behavior.of ancient generals to glean information of the conduct and theory of war. And the political scientist, forever complaining about the lack of \\"qualitative\\" data (eg, historical examples), should began incorporating the wars of the ancient world, as well as those of the modern, into their theories of state behavior.	2002-12-14
US	51938214	R1L7FXDKB32VWP	0312273037	583440675	The Two O'Clock War: The 1973 Yom Kippur Conflict and the Airlift That Saved Israel	Books	5	29	30	N	N	How Close We Came	Retired Air Force Colonel Walter Boyne's book on the 1973 War reveals much new information. Perhaps the most important of which is the fact that the world came to the brink of nuclear war not once but twice during the conflict. Boyne begins by exploring how Israel was ill-prepared for the well-planned and well-executed Arab surprise attack on October 6, 1973, the holiest day in the Jewish year. Following the stunning initial gains by the Egyptians in the Sinai, and the Syrians in the Golan, Israeli political leaders began to discuss what was known as the \\"Sampson Option.\\" That is, if Israel was going to be destroyed, it was going to take down its enemies with it. Israel had no way of knowing that it was not the Arab goal to destroy the state. Sadat's aim was simply to capture territory on the east bank of the Suez Canal, an objective he achieved in three days. Meanwhile, the Syrians had also made impressive gains, but failed to press their advantage, for reasons that are unclear. This, coupled with the Egyptian army's halt in the Sinai allowed Israel to regroup and press the offensive in the North. Egypt foolishly decided to press to the Mitla and Gidi passes in the Sinai, and its armor was torn to shreds in the largest tank battles since World War Two. The war may have shifted to Israel's advantage, but supplies were running critically low, with only a few days ammunition left. The US, led by Henry Kissinger, decided to airlift supplies into Israel, allowing Israel to continue its offensive operations, crossing the Suez Canal, and choking off the Egyptian forces, while pushing back the Syrians, along with their Iraqi and Jordanian allies. Yet the massive airlift barely was able to begin, since no European country would allow the US an airbase to transfer its supplies, fearing the wrath of the Arab oil weapon.  Finally, Portugal, in need of arms for its own wars, allowed the US a base in the Atlantic. The airlift was on, and it landed a huge number of supplies in a round the clock effort. With Israel advancing, the Soviets advocated inserting a unilateral force in the region, leading the US to place its armed forces on high alert, known as Def Con 3. The panicked Soviets quickly backed down from their demands, but nuclear tensions reached their highest point in years. Boyne's own Air Force background shines in his explanation of all events related to the air war and the airlift; He also has an impressive understanding of events in the diplomatic arena. Overall, this an excellent book, well-written impeccably researched, and a gripping read.round the clock effort. With Israel advancing, the Soviets advocated inserting a unilateral force in the region, leading the US to place its armed forces on high alert, known as Def Con 3. The panicked Soviets quickly backed down from their demands, but nuclear tensions reached their highest point in years. Boyne's own Air Force background shines in his explanation of all events related to the air war and the airlift; He also has an impressive understanding of events in the diplomatic arena. Overall, this an excellent book, well-written impeccably researched, and a gripping read.	2002-11-21
US	51938214	R1Y6XIAPKMU57C	0671633104	886544400	The Siege: The Saga of Israel and Zionism	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Conor's Crystal Ball	Irish Historian Conor Cruise O'Brien's seminal work on the saga of Zionism and the Jewish state remains a potent and important read nearly two decades after its original publication. O'Brien lays out the Jewish side of the conflict in an extraordinarily readable manner, as well as making the reader truly understand the Jewish perspective. It is a shame that there has been no such effort to tell the Arab side (although perhaps Rashid Khalidi comes the closest). O'Brien sets out to trace the rise of the Zionist movement in Europe, and finds Zionism as rooted in European anti-Semitism, which especially after 1881, became both pervasive and flexible: European anti-Semitism could based either on Christian dogma, or non-religious \\"scientific\\" racism, which viewed the Jews as a separate, and inferior people. This dreary situation led to the Jewish nationalist movement, and O'Brien tells its story lucidly and coherently, using many primary documents to bolster his case. O'Brien then shifts his focus from Europe to Palestine, where as a result of European anti-Semitism, Jews began large-scale immigration and land purchases which caused friction with the local Arabs, a conflict that continues until today. But the focus is not only the conflict, but the state of Israel, and the second half of the book deals with Sephardic Jewish immigration (The Second Israel), the Arab minority in Israel, as well as the continued battles with its Arab neighbors. Nor is O'Brien insensitive to the plight of the Palestinians, stating that \\"The Palestinian Arabs have every right to say that they are the indirect and innocent victims of what happened to the Jews in Europe.\\"<br />So well has O'Brien's book held up that many of the predictions he made in 1985 have now come to pass. O'Brien explains why the siege exists, and why it will continue to: \\"Israel cannot be other than what it is...Israel is not free to be other than the Jewish State in Palestine, and that the Jewish State, once in possession of Jerusalem, is not capable of relinquishing that city.  The Muslim world is also not free to be other than what it is, and is certainly incapable of acquiescing openly, fully, and voluntarily to a Jewish State in Palestine, with Arab subjects, and its capital in Jerusalem.  It seems to follow that the siege will continue, in some form, into an indefinite future\\" (p. 656). How have these predictions been borne out? Shortly afterwards, it seemed that O'Brien may have been wrong. The Intifidah led to the Oslo Peace Process, and from 1993-1999, optimism ruled the day, with the end of the conflict seemingly in sight. But the two sides failed to reach an agreement at the final status negotiations at Camp David in July 2000, mainly over the issue of Jerusalem. The only reason for the success of the peace process until that time was the fact that they had not dealt with the main issues, agreeing on smaller items, while the major questions loomed overhead. Shortly afterwards, violence returned to the region and has continued to this day. And the prospects for a future accord? According to the author they are not be good. O'Brien sums up both the past and the future best when he says that: \\"The Jews had recovered Jerusalem, after nearly two thousand years, through a train of efforts and events so strange and unprecedented as to appear to some almost miraculous, and to others literally miraculous.  To expect the Jews, having thus again come into possession of Jerusalem, to hand over the Old City, with the Wall of the Temple, to an Arab Power, or to an international authority, is to expect what cannot be.\\" (p. 651). O'Brien concludes his text by stating that \\"what is not in sight is an end to the siege.\\"<br /> He might as well have been writing today.on of Jerusalem, is not capable of relinquishing that city.  The Muslim world is also not free to be other than what it is, and is certainly incapable of acquiescing openly, fully, and voluntarily to a Jewish State in Palestine, with Arab subjects, and its capital in Jerusalem.  It seems to follow that the siege will continue, in some form, into an indefinite future\\" (p. 656). How have these predictions been borne out? Shortly afterwards, it seemed that O'Brien may have been wrong. The Intifidah led to the Oslo Peace Process, and from 1993-1999, optimism ruled the day, with the end of the conflict seemingly in sight. But the two sides failed to reach an agreement at the final status negotiations at Camp David in July 2000, mainly over the issue of Jerusalem. The only reason for the success of the peace process until that time was the fact that they had not dealt with the main issues, agreeing on smaller items, while the major questions loomed overhead. Shortly afterwards, violence returned to the region and has continued to this day. And the prospects for a future accord? According to the author they are not be good. O'Brien sums up both the past and the future best when he says that: \\"The Jews had recovered Jerusalem, after nearly two thousand years, through a train of efforts and events so strange and unprecedented as to appear to some almost miraculous, and to others literally miraculous.  To expect the Jews, having thus again come into possession of Jerusalem, to hand over the Old City, with the Wall of the Temple, to an Arab Power, or to an international authority, is to expect what cannot be.\\" (p. 651). O'Brien concludes his text by stating that \\"what is not in sight is an end to the siege.\\" <BR> He might as well have been writing today.	2002-10-15
US	51938214	R3JXNQAEKGXU7Q	0060004436	126782068	Power Plays: Win or Lose--How History's Great Political Leaders Play the Game	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	How History is Made	Historians and Political Scientists tend to focus on what leaders' have accomplished, weighing them as effective or not, rather than examining how they achieved them, or even how they came to office in the first place. This overlooked aspect of history is known as political strategy, and Dick Morris has taken a huge step in filling that void with his stunning new book \\"Power Plays.\\" Morris cites six different types of strategies that political leaders can use. But the use of these strategies alone are not a prescription for success or failure. It is how leaders' execute these strategies that determines whether or not they will prevail. For example, both Ronald Reagan and Barry Goldwater pursued the same policy goals using the same basic strategy, what Morris calls Standing On Principle. But whereas Goldwater was combative and negative, Reagan was joyful and positive. Goldwater ran against the liberal establishment, while Reagan ran against the Soviet Empire. Morris continues to examine the successes and failures of the six strategies through well-written historical examples, and his juxtaposition of the two outcomes from the same strategy makes the book convincing. Along the way, Morris treats us to other previously unknown illuminations of history. Wilson could have the vote for the League of Nations had he campaigned on idealistic and nationalistic principles rather that legalistic ones. Gore would have won in 2000 had he stayed aligned with his traditional environmentalism. Rockefeller strayed too far to the left to be elected but GW Bush managed the feat by not isolating his base of support. We are also introduced to how leaders should act in times of crisis, as exemplified by Roosevelt and Churchill durin the Second World War. How not to act in a crisis was exemplified by Johnson during Vietnam, which cost him his Presidency. Morris' book is therefore a real achievement, which incorporates historical examples into a well-defined theoretical framework, making this a genuine piece of political science that will not only stand the test of time, but may well influence more scholars to study campaign strategy in addition to more traditional historical pursuits.is a genuine piece of political science that will not only stand the test of time, but may well influence more scholars to study campaign strategy in addition to more traditional historical pursuits.	2002-08-31
US	51938214	R12OBBWQ2HXSEJ	0060199733	242010890	Statecraft: Strategies for a Changing World	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Unvarnished Thatcherism	In this lengthy and comprehensive yet highly readable volume, former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher lays out her vision for global policies for the new century. Since her book is about the future, Lady Thatcher takes us on a tour of the globe, describing the various regions of the world, and their issues: We should try and incorporate China into the global community, but keep firm limits on them as well. Japan will reform its economy when they are ready, not when we want them to. We should continue to take a hard-line against rogue states, like Saddam Hussein's Iraq. Thatcher also warns against a Euro superstate, and urges Britain to distance themselves from the continent. She also makes a strong call for the United States to build a missile shield, while keeping the military strong, both monetarily and morally. This includes resisting calls for placing women in combat. In one of the more memorable passages in the book, Thatcher declares that \\"we women are better at wielding the handbag than the bayounet.\\" But this book is also about the past. Thatcher declares that the West smashed Communism, and is proud of her role in aiding the U.S. and particularly Ronald Reagan (to whom the book is dedicated) in that effort. But above all, this book is about ideology, particularly Thatcher's unabashed and unashamed conservatism. Conservatives value freedom, while Liberals value equality. But according to Thatcher, individuals differs in talents and ability, leading to unequal outcomes. All attempts to limit unequal outcomes necessarily involve limiting freedom, and in doing so, stifles creativity and economic gain. Capitalism itself is neither good nor bad; It is how we go about pursuing it that determines its morality. Conservatives also value nationalism as an important asset despite its flaws, and Thatcher calls herself a proud patriot, and resists all attempts to undermine state sovereignty, including the detention of General Pinochet in Britain. In sum, Lady Thatcher has written a towering work, one with implications for the future, with insights on the past, and with philosophy at its root. Anyone interested in world affairs should read this book. Even those who disagree with her prescriptions cannot deny that she lays ourt her argument cogently and effectively.tcher has written a towering work, one with implications for the future, with insights on the past, and with philosophy at its root. Anyone interested in world affairs should read this book. Even those who disagree with her prescriptions cannot deny that she lays ourt her argument cogently and effectively.	2002-08-31
US	51938214	R1EC4AD86NC39N	0521808863	114776366	The New White Nationalism in America: Its Challenge to Integration	Books	5	91	112	N	N	A Timely and Important Examination	Black Political Scientist Carol Swain has produced a very important work which not only examines the growth of the new white nationalist movement in America, but also its sources. Swain notes that in the last ten years or so, a new, non-violent type of white nationalism has been growing in America, one that seeks to win people over through logic and argumentation. These groups vary from moderate to radical, but underlying them all is the same message: America is being undermined by minorities and immigrants. Perhaps the most important of these groups is \\"American Renaissance\\" led by Jared Taylor. Taylor is highly educated as are most his followers. They are against multiculturalism and seek to change the demographic balance in the country.<br />But Swain's examination of the various groups and their messages is only the begining. She then examines the three main issues that are fueling the rise of these groups appeal to mainstream white Americans: Immigration, Crime, and Affirmative-Action. Swain argues that current immigration policy is not sensitive to local needs and a discussion on reform is needed. Unfortunately, no such discussion exists at this moment. Similiarly, high black crime rates are a taboo subject which no mainstream politician will discuss, leaving the issue to be framed by the white nationalists who argue that blacks are criminal by nature. Again, the lack of an open discussion is the greatest problem in confronting this issue. Swain offers no solution on how to lower black crime, however. But the fact that she acknowledges black crime rates are indeed higher is a brave break from the past. The third major issue feeding the movement is affirmative action, seen by many whites as discrimination. More than any other issue, it contributes to the appeal of white nationalism. Swain makes a strong case for the elimination of race-based policies, in favor of class-based policies instead. Swain also delivers a scathing indictment of the black leadership, which she believes does not serve its communities interests. Since Swain herself is black, perhaps her words will have some resonance within the black community to reasses their leaders.<br />In sum, it seems that censorship is our greatest enemy. When we cannot talk about issues honestly and openly, those with radical agendas will take over since there is no other side to balance it out. At first glance, one might think of this book as a typical liberal attack on the radical right, simply denouncing them without offering solutions. Swain does no such thing. She is a conservative, one who understands that difference between the mainstream and radical right, and who offers us solutions on how to improve race relations for the future. Our efforts can no longer focus on minorities, but on all Americans, if we are to reach our ideal of a color-blind society.ich she believes does not serve its communities interests. Since Swain herself is black, perhaps her words will have some resonance within the black community to reasses their leaders.<br />In sum, it seems that censorship is our greatest enemy. When we cannot talk about issues honestly and openly, those with radical agendas will take over since there is no other side to balance it out. At first glance, one might think of this book as a typical liberal attack on the radical right, simply denouncing them without offering solutions. Swain does no such thing. She is a conservative, one who understands that difference between the mainstream and radical right, and who offers us solutions on how to improve race relations for the future. Our efforts can no longer focus on minorities, but on all Americans, if we are to reach our ideal of a color-blind society.	2002-08-27
US	51938214	R2H1BXUUJNHLQD	0684806975	568576361	The New Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Win Shares-The Holy Grail of Baseball Statistics	The New Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract introduces a novel new way to evaluate players: The Win Shares System. What is revolutionary about the system is that it does not use statistics that are subject to variation as the game changes. It is based on how many games a player helps his team win, based on his performance. Since the ratio of win shares to wins is always 3-1, the system treats good players on bad teams as equally as bad players on good teams. James has also created the first effective system to measure fielding prowess. But most of all, it allows us to fairly look at players across eras, in one single integer. The system is brilliant. James application of it, however, is not. First, it does not evenly rate pitchers vs hitters. Pitchers are arbitrarily assigned one fourth of all win shares, hitters one half, and fielders one fourth. The numbers are not necessarily an accurate reflection of relative importance. But the system does allow for fair assessment of hitters vs. hitters. In evaluating hitters, James creates a six-step system to include all relevant data. Simply adding up raw win shares and rating the players against each other does not work, according to James. As proof of this, he cites the fact that Rusty Staub has almost as many Win Shares as Joe Dimaggio. So to even it out, he weighs a players three best seasons, five best consecutive seasons, and win shares per 162 games. It is these three values that skew his system, but more on this later. His fifth element is a time line adjustment, and the sixth a subjective element. The time line adjustment is a good factor, since players get better over time, but it is weighed a bit too heavily. And the there is a better way to deal with the sixth factor. The problem with the 2,3, and 4 factors is that they overate a players prime, while vastly underrating his career stats. This leads to some skewed ratings of players. James himself admits to one: His system rates Mickey Mantle higher than Ty Cobb, mostly since Mantle's prime numbers were so good. Similarly, the system underrates Hank Aaron, while overrating Honus Wagner, and overrates Mark McGwire while undervaluing Eddie Murray. The reason these three variables were introduced was to compensate for a situation that rarely occurs: Players like Dimaggio missing significant time due to wartime service. A better system would look at total win shares while extrapolating what a player would have done in the years he missed, based on performance before and after the time missed. This would give us a rough total win shares, while not overcompensating for peak values. There is no inherent reason why peak values are more important than total values. Longevity is a key factor in rating a players total worth. The only exceptions are players who hang around late in their careers to pad their stats, like Pete Rose and Rickey Henderson. One may argue that guessing what a player would have done is unscientific. Surely it is. But it is far better than skewing an entire system to accommodate for a couple of players who missed time.bb, mostly since Mantle's prime numbers were so good. Similarly, the system underrates Hank Aaron, while overrating Honus Wagner, and overrates Mark McGwire while undervaluing Eddie Murray. The reason these three variables were introduced was to compensate for a situation that rarely occurs: Players like Dimaggio missing significant time due to wartime service. A better system would look at total win shares while extrapolating what a player would have done in the years he missed, based on performance before and after the time missed. This would give us a rough total win shares, while not overcompensating for peak values. There is no inherent reason why peak values are more important than total values. Longevity is a key factor in rating a players total worth. The only exceptions are players who hang around late in their careers to pad their stats, like Pete Rose and Rickey Henderson. One may argue that guessing what a player would have done is unscientific. Surely it is. But it is far better than skewing an entire system to accommodate for a couple of players who missed time.	2002-03-04
US	51938214	RF0BDD3ZGK5PI	0393020258	847218561	The Tragedy of Great Power Politics	Books	5	95	109	N	N	Destined to Become the Standard Realist Text	Those of us who are familiar with John Mearsheimers' illuminating and provocative work have been waiting quite a few years for him to put all his thoughts together in one coherent and all-encompassing book. The wait is finally over, and the result does not disappoint. Mearsheimer has written what is sure to be the standard text for the Realist paradigm for years to come. It is clear that he is in fact trying to place himself in the Realist cannon as the logical successor to Morgenthau and Waltz. Whereas Morgenthau could not explain why states are driven to be as aggressive as they are, and Waltz's Defensive Realism did not adequately describe the constant struggle for power among states, Mearsheimer's Offensive Realism claims to explain both.  States are aggressive due to the anarchic nature of the state system, which leads them to not only seek to ensure their survival, but to also try to acquire power at every opportunity possible.<br /> Mearsheimer's lengthy volume is divided roughly into two parts. The first half is the theoretical section, in which he presents his Offensive Realist theory in detail, along with an explanation of how to measure state power (population and wealth). Also included in this part is an entire chapter called &quot;The Primacy of Land Power,&quot; in which he not only tries to explain why land power is the most important, but also goes into the limits of sea and air power, and the limited effectiveness of blockades and strategic bombing campaigns. It is somewhat surprising that these issues have generally been overlooked by IR theorists until now. Hopefully that will no longer be the case. The second half of the book is more empirical, including the histories of all the recent Great Powers, focusing on why and how they have been aggressive in their foreign affairs. Also included are chapter on the &quot;Offshore Balancers&quot; (UK and US), alliance behavior, and the origins of major wars.<br /> Critics of this book are likely to be the usual assortment of Liberals, post-Modernists, Critical Theorists, and other Realists. But Mearsheimer has not only created the most coherent Realist theory yet, he has also solved some of the major contradictions within the Realist paradigm as well. It is a stunning accomplishment, and this is a book to be read by the general reader and seasoned IR Theorist alike. Indeed, Mearsheimer has written it in a style that is accessible to all, but with generous footnotes for those interested in more details. If you only read one book on International Relations in your life, let this be the one! It will explain more of the world around you than you would think possible.ual assortment of Liberals, post-Modernists, Critical Theorists, and other Realists. But Mearsheimer has not only created the most coherent Realist theory yet, he has also solved some of the major contradictions within the Realist paradigm as well. It is a stunning accomplishment, and this is a book to be read by the general reader and seasoned IR Theorist alike. Indeed, Mearsheimer has written it in a style that is accessible to all, but with generous footnotes for those interested in more details. If you only read one book on International Relations in your life, let this be the one! It will explain more of the world around you than you would think possible.	2002-01-02
US	51938214	R3BJTIUZLOUZRO	0395467217	854028200	Last Rampage: The Escape of Gary Tison	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Vivid Description of a Madman and his Escape from Prison	Professor James W. Clarke has carefully and vividly recreated the escape from prison of convicted murderer Gary Tison, and the subsequent killing spree he and Randy Grunwalt embarked upon, along with Tison's three sons. Clarke describes Tison's early days, when he was committing crimes at a young age, and the romance he started with a young woman visiting prisoners as part a church mission. Tison continued to commit more serious crimes, but still managed to have three children, whose memories of him consisted mainly of their father behind bars. Tison's wife helped him escape by giving him a handgun, and the Last Rampage was on. The most memorable part of the book is the senseless and brutal murder of a young family by Tison and Grunwalt on the side of a deserted Arizona road. Clarke himself was camped next to the Tison clan in Northern Arizona one night, and sensing something was wrong, he quickly gathered his belongings and left with his wife, perhaps saving them both. The only drawback is Clarke's complete reliance on Stanley Milgrams Obedience to Authority thesis to explain the reason that the Tison boys willingly followed their father into murder and mayhem, without considering any other explanation.	2001-12-03
US	51938214	R3KL00BAAOMTJK	0813118654	709225621	Power And Profits: U.S. Policy in Central America	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Crass Economic Determinism	Ronald Cox's &quot;Power and Profits&quot; is the crassest type of economic determinism which no one subscribes to anymore. Cox argues that US policy to Central America is shaped only by business interests in the region. US national and security interests in repelling the Soviets in the Cold War are viewed by Cox as merely an excuse for intervention on the behalf of businesses. To explain why Republicans have been more willing to intervene he ascribes the difference not to ideology, but to different types of businesses: The Republicans were supported by labor-intensive businesses which needed many workers operating at low wages, while the Democrats were supported by capitol-intensive businesses which did not need to directly intervene militarily. Cox uses this pathetic theory to explain US policies in Central America, but it is inadequate on every level. Fortunately, authors like Cox are not taken seriously by academics anymore. This leads writers like him to declare the entire field biased, when in truth its just that his theory is really bad	2001-11-27
US	51938214	R10Y1RSGWO2PNB	0226290719	764313731	The Political Economy of Third World Intervention: Mines, Money, and U.S. Policy in the Congo Crisis (American Politics and Political Economy Series)	Books	1	6	43	N	N	Paranoid and Absurd Conspiracy Theory	This book, which was originally David Gibbs' PhD disseratation is perhaps the most ludicrous work ever produced in the history of academia. Gibbs claims that the US intervention in the Congo  following their indepedence was motivated entirely by investor Maurice Templesman's interest in the Congolese Diamond mines. According to Gibbs, after Kennedy's election in 1960 the US stepped up its intervention in the Congo since Tempelsman and Kennedy were close, and he thus influenced the Administration to intervene to ensure that the Diamond mines would be controlled by the US. Gibbs downplays the US interest in preventing Communist or Soviet influence in the region. In fact, Gibbs has stated elsewhere that covert operations like the on in the Congo are not kept secret in order to keep it from foreign governments, but to prevent America's own citizens from finding out about it! Tempelsman in fact wrote a respone MIT in which he ridicules this slander, noting that one man cannot create US policy, even if he wanted to. Gibbs, in his characteristic cynical fashion, proudly hangs the letter on the door to his office. This excuse for an academic work somehow got Gibbs a job at the University of Arizona's Department of Political Science where he continues to teach his paranoid conspiracy theories to young students, many of whom unfortunately start believing it. Among other gems by David N. Gibbs include his statement that the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 posed no threat to the US, that the US coups in Iran in 1953 and Guatemala in 1954 were influenced by narrow business interests in oil and bananas respectively, and that all US foreign policy is controlled by business interests who use their power to get the US Government to do their bidding. Never in the history of International Relations theory has such an absurd theory been postulated. Even Radical theorists like Gabriel Kolko view US policy as tailored to the general needs of capitalism, but not to individual companies. Meanwhile, Gibbs continues to hurt our young students minds with his toxic waste. The University of Arizona should be ashamed to have him in their department, and hopefully he will not get tenure for the nonsense he writes or else more young minds will be harmed.nies. Meanwhile, Gibbs continues to hurt our young students minds with his toxic waste. The University of Arizona should be ashamed to have him in their department, and hopefully he will not get tenure for the nonsense he writes or else more young minds will be harmed.	2001-11-26
US	51938214	R1BFITBE6ZL2LF	0819133531	516262685	Writing History and Making Policy	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Useful Guide to Cold War Historiography (but a bit dated)	The debate over the origins of the Cold War is one the most hotly contested questions of our time. Making sense of the debate can seem a daunting task for outsiders, and even for those involved in the debate itself. Richard Melanson has provided a great service by explaining the major schools of thought and all of their major contributors in a clear and concise manner. Melanson divides the debate into the major schools of thought: The Orthodox, Realist Revisionist, Revisionist, and post-Revisionist Schools. The Orthodox was the first school of thought, which came into prominence early in the Cold War and saw the conflict as the proper US defense against an aggressive, ambitious Soviet Union. Prominent authors include Arthur Schlesinger, John Spanier, and Foster Rhea Dulles, among others. These men saw the US as having the moral high ground in the conflict. In the 1950's another group, the Realist Revisionists, came to the fore, led by Walter Lippmann, Hans Morgenthau, and George Kennan.  These writers, scared by the crusading nature of the Truman Doctrine, tried to limit the American response to the Soviet threat from a total war against Communism in all forms, to a more moderate position. But their criticisms of US policy were mild compared to the new school of thought, the Revisionists, who came to prominence during the Vietnam conflict and viewed the conflict in directly opposite terms as the Traditionalists: It was the US that was expansionist and the Soviets were defensive. The movement was started by William Appleman Williams, who saw the tragedy of US foreign policy as unnecessarily directed at opening foreign markets. Later authors were more critical, culminating with Gabriel Kolko's \\"Limits to Power\\" which explained US expansionism as based on the needs of the capitalist system. But Kolko could not explain the fact that the US did not acquire most of its resources from the Third World as his theory posited. This made the economic source of US policy implausible and the Revisionists fell out of favor and were replaced by the post-Revisionists, in the 1970's, the most balanced of the schools. The Post-Revisionists saw the origins of the conflict in the fear that both sides had of each other, and of the hard-line policies each side followed, leading to a spiral effect.  The Bipolar nature of the post-World War Two era, in which the United States and the Soviet Union were the two superpowers, is also noted, as their security interests conflicted, mostly in Europe. These authors included John Lewis Gaddis, Daniel Yergin, and Lynn Davies. Melanson concludes that the historiographical debate of any era seems to be more influenced by the current political situation than academics would like to admit. Hence, the radical climate of the Vietnam era produced anti-American works, while the patriotic early Cold War years generated pro-American sentiment even in academia. Melanson himself never says which school of thought he favors, although I once asked him personally and he prefers the Realist Revisionists. Since this book was written the debate has of course continued, and much more has been written. Notably, the Orthodox school received a boost from the fall of the Soviet Union and the revelation that the domestic nature of the USSR was even worse than we had previously thought. John Lewis Gaddis himself switched to the Traditionalist school. The Revisionist has particularly been undermined since then, by studies showing the poor scholarship used by their authors. Another new approach was taken by John Mearsheimer, the IR theorist. Using his pessimistic and deterministic theory, Mearsheimer concluded that while the Soviets may have indeed tried to avoid a conflict, the power vacuum in Europe left by Germany's destruction left the US and the Soviets in fear of each other's power, and there was perhaps no way the conflict could have been avoided. But nearly twenty years after Melanson published this book, the authoritative studyof the origins of the Cold War, combining both the latest advances in theory, and newly declassified material, has yet to be written. Any such book shoud also endeavor to explain not only the origins of the conflict, but its durability, as the Cold War continued many years after the issues that originally started it (the future of Germany, the status of Eastern Europe) were settled. At present, I am aware of no such work.of the origins of the Cold War, combining both the latest advances in theory, and newly declassified material, has yet to be written. Any such book shoud also endeavor to explain not only the origins of the conflict, but its durability, as the Cold War continued many years after the issues that originally started it (the future of Germany, the status of Eastern Europe) were settled. At present, I am aware of no such work.	2001-11-07
US	51938214	R160ZXPJMC3RJO	0465042333	475598833	Losing Ground: American Social Policy, 1950-1980, 10th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	49	71	N	Y	A Modern Classic in Social Policy	Charles Murray's &quot;Losing Ground&quot; is not only an authoritative account of the American welfare system from 1950-80 but also a major work of social science, which explains why welfare systems in general cannot work as planned. The first section is a history of the period in the 1960's in which the welfare state came into being. The elites wanted to help the poor and the programs they set up were well intended and well funded. These included AFDC, Food Stamps, subsidized housing, jobs programs, and unemployment insurance. The result of these policies are discussed in the second section, which includes data on poverty rates, crime, education, income, employment, and marriage rates. The trend for nearly all of these indices are the same: A steady rate from 1950-65, and then an explosion in these indices beginning in the mid-60's and continuing to rise before finally leveling off around 1980. Part Three, &quot;Interpreting the Data,&quot; explains why all this occurred. Put simply, the various welfare programs made all the problems they were trying to fix worse. Welfare discourages people from working, by making unemployment acceptable financially and socially. Furthermore, AFDC paid more money to unwed mothers, encouraging more children to be born out of wedlock. At the same time, crime increased and education worsened, compounding the problems. The fourth and final section &quot;Rethinking Social Policy,&quot; makes this book not only relevant to the current era, but to any era. Murray creates general rules about social programs than go across time and space. The most important of these is what Murray calls &quot;The Law of Unintended Rewards,&quot; in which the undesired behavior is made more desirable by giving social transfers that reward that behavior. By giving money to the unemployed, we make unemployment attractive, more so than working, since you are paid to do nothing. By giving money to unwed mothers, you reward being unmarried. Welfare is thus a trap that society unwittingly creates for the very people it is trying to help. Furthermore, Murray states that the more engrained the behavior is, the more likely is it that trying to change it will do harm. To change it programs can only apply carrots and not sticks. This will make that behavior hard to change, and will in the end encourage people who are not in that condition to do so in order to gain the carrots. By creating massive jobs programs for the unemployed loaded with rewards to stay in the program, you will encourage others to quit their jobs. Finally, Murray puts his theory to practice, and deals with policy. His suggestion for improving the life of the poor, decreasing crime, increasing employment, and a host of other problems is the same: To eliminate all the welfare programs which he says hold back and trap poor people. By doing this we will force them to work, marry, and learn. Government cannot create any program to help the poor through social transfers. Indeed doing so only hurts them. Many will, and have, find this answer unsettling. But social policy should be based on scientific data and findings, not emotion. When our emotions are separated and the scientific facts remain, there is no doubting the fact that the best way to help the poor is to make them stand on their own. There is, however, one critique of Murray that I have found valid. By focusing on eliminating welfare, we can expect the poor to achieve the levels they were at before the mid-1960's. This would certainly be a great improvement over the current situation, but the situation prior to the welfare reforms was not particularly good, or else no reforms would have been needed. Murray thus does not answer how to make the lives of the poor better than before welfare. Indeed, he suggests there is no way to do so. Perhaps he is right, but at least he could address this issue and tell is if the poor will always be numerous or if we can do anything to help them. By focusing on welfare, Murray has done a great service in explaining that systems failure, but he doesnt really have anything to offer in its place.rray has done a great service in explaining that systems failure, but he doesnt really have anything to offer in its place.	2001-11-02
US	51938214	R5KOZCCGJER84	0231071973	506811498	The $36 Billion Bargain: U.S. Aid to Israel and American Public Opinion (Strategy and Politics in Us Assistance to Israel)	Books	5	19	29	N	Y	Excellent Explanation of the US-Israel Alliance	AFK Organski sets out to examine the theory that the US supports Israel due to the strength of the Jewish Lobby. Organski finds that theory to be woefully inadequate, and sets forth an alternative explanation that is very convincing. First, he destroys the myth of the Jewish lobby using both quantitative and qualitative methods. Organski cited figures that demonstrate that the Jewish vote is not large enough to effect Presidential elections, and the Jewish lobby not rich enough to contribute to enough Congressmen. Furthermore, the causation he finds is that once Congressmen have decided to support Israel the lobby funds them, not vice versa. The quantitative section is very well documented and persuasive. The qualitative section discusses th reason for US support. Organski finds that it is straight strategic purposes that drive US policy to Israel, much like US policy to every country. It wasnt until 1970 that the US really began to give Israel large amounts of aid, and it was clearly in order to balance against the radical Arab states in the region which were financed by the Soviet Union. The partnership increased after the 1973 War, and Israel served its purpose by defeating Egypt and making them turn to the US for support, a process which culminated in the Camp David Accords. Organski's book was written in 1990, so it focused on the Cold War and the containment of the Soviet Union as the reason for US support for Israel. Organksi has not updated his book to include reasons for support since then, but we can surmise he explain it in state goals of countering terrorism, balancing against US enemies, etc. But the main premise of his book is inescapable: The Jewish lobby does not control US policy. It never has and never will. The myth of the Jewish lobby is used by Israel's opponents to explain why the US supports Israel without blaming America while putting the blame on those nasty manipulative Jews. Serious and casual readers alike should examine this book carefully.ly.	2001-09-06
US	51938214	R18T2AZT05ZLHC	0521273765	330113787	War and Change in World Politics	Books	2	13	25	N	Y	The Weakness of Hegemonic Realism	Robert Gilpin's work is the best-known and most influential within the Hegemonic Realist paradigm. Hegemonic Realism is a school of thought which views International Relations as organized hierarchically, with each state vying for the top position in order to gain the benefits of being the number one state. In Gilpins' words &quot;Throughout history a principal objective of states has been the conquest of territory in order to advance economic, security, and other interests&quot;. War occurs when a rising state challenges the current hegemon, and seeks to overtake the priviliged postion. On the other hand, when one state is firmly in control, they institute a stable economic system which tends to keep the peace. There are serious problems with Hegemonic Realist theory, however, as well as Gilpin's own version of it. The first is the deductive logic behind the theory. Surely Gilpin is correct when he asserts that states have always sought conquest and territorial expansion. However, he is wrong about the motive. States seek security above all. Economic interests are not a main motive. Wars generally cost more than they could possibly gain in monetary terms. Major wars are especially costly, and no state would seek a major war with huge losses in order to gain a top position. Rather, states start wars to protect themselves from potential destruction. There are also major empirical problems with this theory, in that there really hasn't been a case of a rising power starting a war with the current hegemon. Part of this is due to the fact that Hegemonic theory only looks at the two strongest states, factoring out all the other Great Powers. But in a Multipolar system, the other states matter as well. Hegemonic Realism, for all its flaws, has made one major contribution to scholarship: The concept of state power as changing rather than fixed, as well as the concept of future expectations of power trends. This concept has been incorporated by Dale Copeland in &quot;The Origins of Major War.&quot; Other than that however, Gilpin and his colleagues have little to offer.gins of Major War.&quot; Other than that however, Gilpin and his colleagues have little to offer.	2001-08-02
US	51938214	R2ET2G3S57Y7QO	158648026X	118875723	Taboo: Why Black Athletes Dominate Sports And Why We're Afraid To Talk About It	Books	5	11	15	N	Y	Pandora's Box	Journalist Jon Entine examines the controversial question of whether or not black dominance in sports has a genetic component. He also examines the social history behind the question, which has given rise to the taboo he speaks of. Entine begins by establishing the fact of black athletic dominance in sports, and then breaks it down further, noting long-distance runners tend to come from East Africa while short-distance athletes come from West Africa. Entine then moves into the history of blacks in sports, taking us from the rise of blacks in sports, begining with boxers Jack Johnson and Joe Louis through Jesse Owens disproving Hitler's racial theories at the 1936 Olympics and to the present day. At first, blacks were considered inferior and incapable of competing with whites. But when blacks began to dominate sports, the ideology turned around: Blacks were good at sports since they were animal like.<br /> Were genetics driving this dominance of blacks in sports? Entine believes the answer is yes. Entine claims that Africans have certain hereditary traits that translate into success in sports. These include less body fat and more muscle, greater bone density, and more fast-twitch fibers. It is hard to make a plausible environmental argument to counter this wealth of evidence. And Entine doesn't really see why intelligent people should balk at any mention of black hereditary advantage in sports.<br /> Strangely enough, this book really did not cause the stir one would expect. It was well-received critically, and few attacked Entine on racial grounds. But by establishing that one racial group had certain biological differences that cannot be explained in terms of the environment, Entine has opened a veritable Pandora's box on the entire issue of race. The burgening white nationalist movement has of course used this book as proof that biological differences do indeed exist, and those differences include not just physical but mental traits as well. In other words, they used the implications from this book to claim blacks are inferior, just like critics feared they would. However, we cannot deny reality must because someone perverts science. The conclusions here seem undeniable: Races vary in physical attributes and capabilities. How this fact will be interpreted will largely determine whether or not we use the evidence presented here to understand our differences and celebrate them, or use those differences to drive others away from us, as we have in the past.d the implications from this book to claim blacks are inferior, just like critics feared they would. However, we cannot deny reality must because someone perverts science. The conclusions here seem undeniable: Races vary in physical attributes and capabilities. How this fact will be interpreted will largely determine whether or not we use the evidence presented here to understand our differences and celebrate them, or use those differences to drive others away from us, as we have in the past.	2001-06-19
US	51938214	RXT7NQ90CIUO1	0140245480	245442817	The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature	Books	5	37	42	N	N	Excellent Overview of Evolutionary Psychology	Matt Ridley's Red Queen is both a terrific introduction into the burgeoning field of evolutionary psycholgy and a scientific explanation for why the sexes differ. Ridley's book is based entirely off other scientists ideas, but his great contribution is to put them all together in a cohent and readable form. Ridley is a gifted writer with a knack for making the difficult accesible. But what makes this book so wonderful is its central thesis: That human gender differences are biological, stemming from divergent interests in the way males and females in the animal world seek to reproduce. While this has been well-established in other places, what is even more interesting is Ridley's examination of human reproductive strategies. Men seek beauty and youth in women, while women seek wealth and stablity in men. Every single assertion Ridley makes is backed up by a wealth of scientific date, ranging from experiments to human history and deductive logic. The scientific rigor of this book is impressive, and mostly irrefutalble. There are other implications of this book as well. The most obvious is that it destroys environmental explantions for male-female differences, and culturally constructed views of beauty. But the implications range far beyond that, to our very perception of gender roles in society, and how we should deal with them. Finally, this book is a great introduction into evolutionary pyschology, a new field that is improving by leaps and bounds every year. Evolutionary Pschologists continue to probe into human behavior, helping us understand the biological, and immutable, sources of the human condition. We can expect even more breakthroughs in the years to come, and I certainly hope Matt Ridley chooses to write another book explaining the newest thinking.	2001-01-25
US	51938214	R1QDQRMGWVF2H1	0140264450	445923384	The Origins of Virtue: Human Instincts and the Evolution of Cooperation	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Interesting and Informative,  but Long-Winded	Those familiar with the past works of science author Matt Ridley will no doubt eagerly read his latest work. But The Origins of Virtue is not quite as ground-breaking or novel as some of his past books. Ridley effectively argues that human societies are cooperative by nature, and they are so in order to benefit the individuals within the group, rather than the group itself. Furthermore, human groups compete with other groups rather than competing as individuals, unlike most species. This offers humans a great advantage, and explains many of the accomplishments of our species. On the other hand, human &quot;groupishness&quot; has its downside, namely that those not viewed as within the group are seen as sub-human and unimportant. Ridley sees no solution to this dillema. While Ridley makes interesting points, the book is too lengthy and repetitive. By the books end the readers will be quite familiar with the fact that humans act in self-interest best described in Richard Dawkins &quot;The Selfish Gene.&quot;  Finally, the title isnt really accurate. The book is not about virtue in the sense of altruism and good will, but about group cooperation, despite what the title may imply.	2001-01-09
US	51938214	R1EXFZF7RZY7QU	0812910826	662695465	Inside the Criminal Mind	Books	4	23	32	N	N	Understanding How Criminals Think	Stanton Samenow's enduring look at how criminals think is a fascinating, although at times, upsetting view into the criminal mind. Samenow describes how criminals view the world as a place that exists to serve them, and them alone. They dont dismiss rules or morality outright, only when it interferes with what they want. If a criminal wants something, he takes it, without regard for its rightful owner. In his mind, its his anyway, no matter the consequences for others. The same goes for criminals who want money, sex, drugs, or anything else: Its theirs, by divine right. Samenow's view of criminals as selfish, impulsive, and undisiplined accurately describes just how these people think, and how it differs from responsible citizens. Moreover, Samenow offers a treatment program for criminals, which has been implemented in many places. The plan is not easy or quick, but changing a criminal is no easy task. And ultimately, rehabilitation has to come from the criminals desire to change. No program can change a criminal who has no will to change his take what he wants attitude.  There are some problems with Samenow's book however. He claims that intelligence has no relation to Crime, but studies repeatedly show that criminals have significantly lower IQ's than the general public. And as Samenow admits, he has no idea what causes the criminal mind, he just deals with it as is. But perhaps if we knew why we could more effectively treat the criminal element.  But Samenow's view inside the criminal mind stand the test of time, and perhaps most importantly, he debunks many myths about why criminals act as they do. Ultimately we must remember that criminals are dangerous, selfish people who act out of their own selfish interest with no regard to the responsible members of society who seek to make the world a safe place to live in.	2001-01-02
US	51938214	R3JKDF3XHRBMRV	0060984031	794982372	Third Chimpanzee, The	Books	5	32	38	N	N	A Fascinating and Provocative Look at the Human Species	Jared Diamonds award winning work, The Third Chimpanzee, is really a collection of essays put together and given a coherent form. As Diamond notes, the theme is about how the Human species became so unique, and what its achievements and limitations are. Divided into five parts, the first deals with the evolution of humans from other apes, and emphasizes the importance of language in explaining the huge leap forward in human techology and sophistication 40,000 years ago. The second section deals with the biological aspects of the human life cycle. This includes such controversial topics such as adultery, race origins, and aging. In each chapter he brings forth new ideas that are both intellectually sound and original, such as that human races evolved not due to climate, but personal preference. His third section, &quot;Uniquely human,&quot; includes two chapters that have generally been overlooked. In one, he argues that the agriculutural revolution has been responsible for both mankind's advances and woes. And the last chapter suggests that scientists are wasting their time looking for other intelligent life in the universe, since intelligence is a small niche that biology filled here, but probably not on other planets. The fourth section is the precursor to Guns, Germs, and Steel, where be begins to lay out his theory, and discusses the disastrous effecs of agricultural societies meeting hunter-gatherer ones. The final section is perhaps the most interesting. It discusses how pre-modern man managed to wipe out the large animals in nearly every new region of the world he came to, whether it be New Zealand, Madagascar, or Polynesia. Ditto for the New World. Europeans were not alone in their destruction of the environment. The book ends with an exhortation for a more prudent ecological policy. In sum, this book is a great read, filled with fascinating insights and theories, that will fill any readers head with a wealth of information he may never have imagined beforehand. Readers familiar with Diamond will not be disappointed, and those who have not yet read him will soon be acquainted with his easy yet sophisiticated writing style, which make it a pleasure to learn about complicated topics such as these.and. Readers familiar with Diamond will not be disappointed, and those who have not yet read him will soon be acquainted with his easy yet sophisiticated writing style, which make it a pleasure to learn about complicated topics such as these.	2000-12-27
US	51938214	R3AFHRD5600YNG	0393061310	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Biogeography: Why Eurasia Rules	In 1997, Jared Diamond set the academic world on fire with this seminal tract on the development of human societies. Fifteen years later, the embers from the debate he set off continue to glow. Diamond explains that the reason why the peoples of Eurasia developed complex societies first, and then conquered the rest of the world was due to their guns (weapons), germs (diseases), and steel (technology), which set them apart from all other societies. As a historical illustration, Diamond notes the dramatic events in Cajamarca, Peru, in 1532, when a handful of horse-mounted Spaniards armed with steel swords and helmets fell upon and slaughtered a large host of Incas, subduing them and eventually conquered the Americas. What gave the Europeans the advantage in guns, germs, and steel, according to Diamond was their large-scale food production. Large, populous, societies are able to create complex and centralized governments, specialized trades (including weapons making), and armies. Animal domestication also leads to endemic diseases that these societies slowly acclimate to, but are devastating when introduced to new peoples. Therefore, the origins of \\"Farmer Power\\" comprise the heart of this book. And it is \\"Biogeography\\" that determines farmer power.<br /><br />Farming begins with the domestication of wild plants. The region that contained the highest number of species with domesticable plants was the Fertile Crescent. Therefore, permanent villages, and later cities, what we term civilization, began in Mesopotamia. The second big advantage this region had was a high number of domesticable species of animals. Five species in particular served to aid farmers in Eurasia:  Horses, cattle, sheep, pigs, and goats. These animals allowed farmers to plow land far faster than humans could on their own, thus creating ever larger food surpluses to feed growing populations. Yet these animals were not distributed evenly throughout the world. The larger landmass in Eurasia, combined with the decline of large mammals in the Americas and Australia at the end of the last ice age left Eurasia with the most species of suitable animals. The third geographic advantage of Eurasia was the east-west orientation of the landmass, which allowed farming to spread laterally to new regions. This was not possible in continents with a north-south axis, as the same plants could not grow in a different latitude and hence, climate. Therefore, large-scale farming was commonplace in Mexico and Peru, but the crops that fed the Aztecs and Incas did not suit the nearby regions, the larger landmasses in North and South America which never produced societies quite as populous. Once the peoples in Eurasia had these factors working together, they produced the most populous and complex societies in the world. Writing, technology, and centralized governments followed on the heels of large populations sustained by farmers driving ox and horse-drawn ploughs. These large populations also housed fearful diseases from their livestock, from which they themselves were at least partially immune.<br /><br />When this combination, large populations with writing, technology, centralized governments, and diseases was unleashed on other parts of the world, the results were devastating, particularly the diseases, which Diamond states killed 99 percent of those who were previously unexposed. Diamond details the demise of the Incas at the hands of the Spaniards, but societies all across the Americas and Australia suffered the same fates. As a result, the majority of the people who live in those regions today are descended from Eurasians.<br /><br />By putting together the elements of domesticable plants, animals, and east-west axes, Jared Diamond provided the answer of why civilizations arose where they did, and why Eurasian civilizations developed fastest. This is one of the greatest contributions to our understanding of human history in decades. But as well-received as this book was winingthe Pulitzer Prize, it also has been a lightning rod for criticism. Geography can't be the only factor in history, critics argue. Culture must matter as well.  Diamond answered such attacks in the preface to the paperback edition published one year after the original. A common argument goes that scientific inquiry was encouraged by the Judeo-Christian tradition but was stifled by Confucianism. Yet Diamond notes that Confucius China was technologically ahead of the West until about 1400. Geography trumps culture, according to Diamond. Why this so should be clear to the reader by the end of the book: Geography creates certain material realities that cannot be undone by other factors, and that shape the very broadest patterns of history. Societies cannot grow large without crops, draft animals, and the proper climate. The region of the world that favored these factors was (not surprisingly) the region of the world with the largest landmass, Eurasia. And that is why Eurasians came to dominate the globe.<br /><br />If imitation is the greatest form of flattery, Guns, Germs, and Steel has been flattered indeed. Whereas Diamond explained why Eurasia rules the world, he did not explain why western Eurasia in particular came to dominate. Thirteen years after Guns, Germs, and Steel, another work was published that explained the rise of Europe using a similar geographic framework that Diamond established. Ian Morris, basing his work in large part off this illustrious predecessor, explains the rise of Europe in Why the West Rules as a function of location. In doing so, he picked up where Diamond left off. The circle is now complete.the Pulitzer Prize, it also has been a lightning rod for criticism. Geography can't be the only factor in history, critics argue. Culture must matter as well.  Diamond answered such attacks in the preface to the paperback edition published one year after the original. A common argument goes that scientific inquiry was encouraged by the Judeo-Christian tradition but was stifled by Confucianism. Yet Diamond notes that Confucius China was technologically ahead of the West until about 1400. Geography trumps culture, according to Diamond. Why this so should be clear to the reader by the end of the book: Geography creates certain material realities that cannot be undone by other factors, and that shape the very broadest patterns of history. Societies cannot grow large without crops, draft animals, and the proper climate. The region of the world that favored these factors was (not surprisingly) the region of the world with the largest landmass, Eurasia. And that is why Eurasians came to dominate the globe.<br /><br />If imitation is the greatest form of flattery, Guns, Germs, and Steel has been flattered indeed. Whereas Diamond explained why Eurasia rules the world, he did not explain why western Eurasia in particular came to dominate. Thirteen years after Guns, Germs, and Steel, another work was published that explained the rise of Europe using a similar geographic framework that Diamond established. Ian Morris, basing his work in large part off this illustrious predecessor, explains the rise of Europe in Why the West Rules as a function of location. In doing so, he picked up where Diamond left off. The circle is now complete.	2000-10-31
US	51938214	R3K04O6U1LHIMU	0684824299	318460719	Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life (A Free Press Paperbacks Book)	Books	5	236	270	N	N	Class Structure Explained	Readers who have not yet read this book will be surprised to learn that the main topic is not race, but how intelligence explains class structure. The authors argue that intelligence, not environment is the primary determinant of a variety of social behaviors, including class, socio-economic level, crime, educational achievement, welfare, and even parental styles. Hernstein and Murray back up these claims with some of the most persuasive data ever seen in the social sciences. The importance of a person's intelligence cannot be understated. Its is the number one determinant in shaping one's life.  Hernstein and Murray do not stop there however. They go on, arguing that the bottom 15 percent in intelligence are simply not capable of taking care of themselves, falling into poverty, drugs, alchoholism, etc. American society can no longer accept such conditions for lower cognitive class. They make concrete suggestions on how to change this condition.  They also make striking claims about the danger of affirmative action programs in promoting people who are not qualified to do important tasks. And finally, they deal with the issue that makes this book so controversial: The lower tested intelligence of African-Americans. At no point do they the claim the gap is only due to genetics. They suggest past environmental factors come into play. But their main point is that modern day racism cannot explain the gap, and programs designed to bridge that gap will fail, and putting underqualified individuals in important positions is not the answer. The authors really do not go into detail about why the gap exists, setting themselves up for criticism.  But at least another scholar can research this topic and try and explain it. In sum, this book explains class structure in America, as well as the many of the social maladies of our time. It offers proof, and conrete solutions. It is a book of monumental importance, and cannot be denounced as racist. Those who make such claims either did not read the book, or are too biased to think objectively. As Murray notes in his new afterword, modern Sociology is riddled with taboos and self-censorship. The radical leftists who dominate the field do this country a great disservice by being so biased and non-objective. They also refuse to look at biology, relying only on environmental explanations, despite pyschology's growing reliance on genetic determinants of human behavior. The general public can only hope that the field right itself. Until it does, there will no solution to our most pressing social problems.did not read the book, or are too biased to think objectively. As Murray notes in his new afterword, modern Sociology is riddled with taboos and self-censorship. The radical leftists who dominate the field do this country a great disservice by being so biased and non-objective. They also refuse to look at biology, relying only on environmental explanations, despite pyschology's growing reliance on genetic determinants of human behavior. The general public can only hope that the field right itself. Until it does, there will no solution to our most pressing social problems.	2000-10-02
US	51938214	R32QIMFG60YJRI	0801437504	304742256	The Origins of Major War (Cornell Studies in Security Affairs)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A Significant Addition To Understanding the Causes of War	Dale Copeland's work represents a huge step forward in understanding why major wars occur. The debates over the origins of war have focused on whether or not the system is bipolar or multipolar, on the role of alliances in drawing states into war, on states trying to dominate the system, and other variables as well. Copeland has finally put all these differing views together into one coherent theory, adding a major causal mechanism: States' views of future power trends. States are most likely to start a major when when they see themselves in decline in relation to another state. They initiate a war to protect themselves from that growing states' threat to them in the near future. This theory explain why alliance do not really drag states into war, and why the number of poles is important, but not the determining factor. Bipolarity is more seen as more likely to lead to war, since a state must be willing to take on the entire system to succeed in a multipolar system, whereas it need only defeat one adversary in a bipolar world.  Copeland backs up his theory with copious historical evidence, which seems to fit his theory. Furthermore, he breaks new ground in his empirical explanations. Historians will no doubt be intrigued by his contention that Germany deliberatly initiated the hostilities in World War One to defeat the rising Russian menace. He explains the Second World War in similiar terms. Unlike many of his contemporaries, he looks at pre-modern historical cases as well, dating back to Ancient Greece through the Napoleanic era.  Finally, this book is very readable. Academic writing tends to be cluttered with jargon and in generally is very difficult to read. This book is not. Copeland writes with an easy style that is a pleasure to read. This is one of the few academic books that can be read by people in the field, and by those who are just interested in the question Copeland tries to answer. Highly recommended for everyone!	2000-10-01
US	51938214	R3EK9X5IO7W5NH	0671541307	94318372	Crime and Human Nature	Books	5	76	81	N	N	A Very Important Breakthrough in Understanding Crime	When Wilson and Herrnstein's \\"Crime and Human Nature\\" first appeared in 1985, it caused a major debate. American sociologists had generally ascribed crime to environmental factors, particularly poverty.  Wilson and Herrnstein proposed that constitutional factors, coupled with poor parenting, were really the causes of crime.  It was the first major examination of such factors since the early days of criminology. The authors proposed that the following constitutional factors predisposed an individual to crime:<br />1) Mesomorphic body type: There are three body types and mesomorphs are described as heavily built, either muscular or fat, and shorter than average. The authors don't even attempt to explain why this would predispose an individual to crime. But the statistics they use to back up this claim can't really be denied.  Criminals are overwhelmingly mesomorphs with a slight emphasis to endomorphism (roundness) rather than ectomorphism (lean build). Stereotypes of criminals back up this claim: Think of the way famous mafiosos are built: John Gotti, Sammy Gravano, Tony Soprano, etc. Realizing that they can't explain why this affects crime, the authors simply state that it shows that constitutional factors matter; The other biological factors they describe are more straightforward.<br />2) Age: Criminals are predominantly young. Crime peaks from ages 16-25 and begins to descend downwards from thereon, although violent crime peaks from ages 24-28. Unlike body type, the authors seem to think they know why age causes crime, offering several possibilities. Young people have shorter time horizons, and are more interested in immediate gratification. Young people are less well off financially, have less dependents and so on. Few people would dispute age as a major factor in crime.<br />3) Sex: Men commit far more crimes than women, although the figures aren't completely clear as to how much more. An estimation of 90 percent seems likely. The question is why? Obviously men are more aggressive than women, but why do women commit crimes? The authors state that women commit crimes for the same reasons as men. As for why, all they can say is that for reasons both nature and nurture, men have different sex roles than women, and these affect crime.<br />4) Intelligence: Low intelligence, particularly the verbal component, seems to have a major impact on the criminal individual. The reasons are that those with low intelligence discount future events as being too far off to matter. They try and live for the moment. They may also be less able to grasp moral concepts.<br />5) Personality: Criminals differ on personality in nearly every study done on them. Criminals tend to be more aggressive, unafraid, assertive, impulsive and extroverted than others. They are also poorly socialized, meaning they display little regards for others feelings.<br />The authors are quick to note that constitutional factors are not only hereditary. They may also be affected by poor pre-natel care. Thus the genes alone don't dictate criminal behavior, but they do predispose an individual to crime. If those traits are reinforced by certain environmental factors, then criminal behavior may result.<br />By far the most important developmental factor, according to the authors, is parental style. Inconsistent and random discipline prevents a child from knowing when to expect punishment. The rules are not made clear, and the child never internalizes them.  Furthermore, a cold parent does not produce the necessary attachment with their child that is important in later development. The child never develops a desire to please the parent or obey the rules. This pattern continues into adulthood. As far as developmental and environmental factors go, this is really the only one the authors point to as having a major impact. Indeed, they spend the next few chapters explaining why other factors don't matter, including schools, neighborhoods, labor markets, and television violence. Delinquents are likely to flock together in the schoolyard: A few rotten boys don't spoil the others. Certain kinds of neighborhoods attract certain kinds of people, and they point to an ecological fallacy: Ascribing the characteristics of an individual to the group where he lives. Labor markets only marginally affect crime, and the reasons are not entire clear yet. One environmental factor they do point to are durgs, specifically alcohol and heroin (the book came out before the crack epidemic broke in 1985, or surely crack would been included). These alter a persons time horizons and lead to impulsive behavior, as well as the need for money to support the habit. It is not clear how constitutional factors affect people in predisposing them to use drugs though. Perhaps they share some of the above constitutional traits.<br /> After setting forth their model of criminal behavior as a choice that people make based on biological factors coupled with inadequate parenting, it seems only logical to expect policy suggestions on how to reduce crime. But they offer few. One reason is that since the book was both controversial and revolutionary, they were first interested in seeing their theory of criminal behavior become accepted. Since being written, it has indeed gained widespread acceptance, although it doesn't explain white-collar crime, and doesn't seem to explain organized crime either. The authors would counter that organized crime results from the same factors that they lay out in their general model. And it seems a valid point in explaining organized crime, who's members share many characteristics with petty criminals.<br />  What is missing from the book is causation. After establishing an elegant an encompassing theory of crime which looks at both biological and environmental factors, the authors need to fill in the blanks. Most notably, why do mesomorphs show more criminal tendencies? And why do some men become criminals, while most don't? And how does one explain why women commit crimes? There is something notably missing here: How does one explain aggression, and the link between muscularity and aggressiveness?<br /> Since 1985 researchers have closed in on the answer. It seems that the male hormone testoserone is responsible for aggression. Men with low testoserone claim to be tired, and unenergetic. After receiving the hormone, they say they feel better. No studies have been, however, to give men with high levels of testoserone more of the hormone for fear of uncontrolled behavior. Nonetheless, the correlation seems clear. It seems that mesomorphs, youths, and men all have higher testoserone than their counterparts. This explains their aggressive behavior. But even those three factors together cannot explain crime. Low intelligence, bad temperament, and poor parenting must also be factored in. A young man with high testoserone and a well adjusted personality will be highly successful. Indeed, society needs energetic young men to fight its wars, fight fires, and police the streets, among other jobs. It is only aggression in tandem with the other factors that is a problem.<br /> Finally, we must address how to reduce crime, based on the model described here. One solution has been eugenics. The neo-Eugenics movement loved this book, using it to claim that crime is genetic, and to reduce crime all we have to do is sterilize criminals. While there is much in this book to support that claim, there will still be individuals born with these genetic traits. And most of all, society finds that solution abhorrent and unethical. I believe there are better ways to deal with criminals. If criminals are aggressive, impulsive, short-sighted young men, one way to deal with them is to slow them down. The tranquilizing effect of drug treatments would slow their impulses, and make them think before they act. No such drug has been introduced, but it seems like one could be not to far in the offing. Treatment programs like those offered by Stanton Samenow which help criminals by making them think about their every action, and what it will lead to in the future, could be done in tandem with drug treatment. By doing these things, along with strict policing, we can reduce crime greatly in our society.it crimes? There is something notably missing here: How does one explain aggression, and the link between muscularity and aggressiveness?<BR> Since 1985 researchers have closed in on the answer. It seems that the male hormone testoserone is responsible for aggression. Men with low testoserone claim to be tired, and unenergetic. After receiving the hormone, they say they feel better. No studies have been, however, to give men with high levels of testoserone more of the hormone for fear of uncontrolled behavior. Nonetheless, the correlation seems clear. It seems that mesomorphs, youths, and men all have higher testoserone than their counterparts. This explains their aggressive behavior. But even those three factors together cannot explain crime. Low intelligence, bad temperament, and poor parenting must also be factored in. A young man with high testoserone and a well adjusted personality will be highly successful. Indeed, society needs energetic young men to fight its wars, fight fires, and police the streets, among other jobs. It is only aggression in tandem with the other factors that is a problem.<BR> Finally, we must address how to reduce crime, based on the model described here. One solution has been eugenics. The neo-Eugenics movement loved this book, using it to claim that crime is genetic, and to reduce crime all we have to do is sterilize criminals. While there is much in this book to support that claim, there will still be individuals born with these genetic traits. And most of all, society finds that solution abhorrent and unethical. I believe there are better ways to deal with criminals. If criminals are aggressive, impulsive, short-sighted young men, one way to deal with them is to slow them down. The tranquilizing effect of drug treatments would slow their impulses, and make them think before they act. No such drug has been introduced, but it seems like one could be not to far in the offing. Treatment programs like those offered by Stanton Samenow whichhelp criminals by making them think about their every action, and what it will lead to in the future, could be done in tandem with drug treatment. By doing these things, along with strict policing, we can reduce crime greatly in our society.	2000-05-06
US	51938214	R180CZF0ZH8FKY	039331619X	210743552	Why the Allies Won	Books	5	145	154	N	N	The Definitive Answer to the Second World War	Historian Richard Overy sets out to answer what is one of the most important questions of the Twentieth Centuries, why the Allied Powers, and not the Axis, won the greatest conflict of all time. Overy emphasizes that the outcome was not a foregone conclusion, as Western Liberal societies have argued since 1945. Rather, the conflict was extremely close, and in the years from 1942-44, the war could have gone either way. Overy divides his analysis into two types of factors: the actual combat, including campaigns and tactics, and underlying factors, such as economics, resources, and leadership. Overy does more than simply rehash other historians' arguments while synthesizing them into one coherent work. For example, he maintains that the Eastern Front was the most important single front in determining the outcome of the war. At Stalingrad the Soviets won not only by sheer numbers, but by tactical superiority as well. But Stalingrad did not decide the outcome of the campaign. The German lines stabilized in 1943, and had Hitler not wasted all his heavy armor at Kursk, stalemate may have ensued. Overy also discussed the Anglo-American air war, which had little impact in 1942-43, but when the allied forces targeted the German industrial areas, they pulverized the German munitions manufacturing, so that in early 1945 Albert Speer conceded the war was over from his point of view. The sea war in the Atlantic is also examined. Germany's U-Boats nearly strangled England in the early stages, striking American and British ships at will. But American technology and ingenuity changed the tide, forcing the U-Boats to retreat after taking massive losses. All of these campaigns were close affairs, in which the allied forces made better choices than their Axis counterparts. The second main area of Overy's analysis are the underlying, macro-level factors. Overy discusses the internal problems in the Axis nations in terms of economics and resource mobilization. He argues that Germany in fact had logistical problems it did not solve, despite their reputation for engineering genuis. Furthermore, Hitler's &quot;super weapons&quot; like the V-1 and V-2, wasted valuable German resources which were better used on conventional arms. Japan was hobbled by the rift between the army and navy, which did not coordinate as well as they should have. Both Axis nations were also affected by easy victory in the early stages of the war, which prevented them from developing both new tactics and new weapons. Germanys' qualitative advantage in arms was reversed by 1944, when even Soviet weaponry was more advanced. Leadership mattered as well. Overy is not a great admirer of Winston Churchill, but views him as the right man in a time of war. Hitler on the other hand, embodied poor leadership and hurt the German war effort through his stubborness and inept decision-making. Finally, Overy makes the stunning assertion that morality is a major factor in determining the outcomes of war. While the Axis populations were unsure of their cause, the Allies were certain of theirs, and because of it, fought harder and better. It is an original and powerful assertion which I hope will be examine elsewhere as well.  The book focuses on the war with Germany, and the war with Japan is relegated to a minor role. One hopes that perhaps Overy will update his book to include more about Japan. Perhaps the only unsatisfactory section is the prologue, in which Overy gives his own interpretation of the origins of the war. His explanation focuses on the depression and the Axis powers' quest for economic security, which they believed could only be accomplished through violence. His explanation leaves out power explanations favored by Realist thinkers. But this is really not the focus of the book. For what it deals with it is not only a definitive answer, but also well-written and engrossing to read.act had logistical problems it did not solve, despite their reputation for engineering genuis. Furthermore, Hitler's &quot;super weapons&quot; like the V-1 and V-2, wasted valuable German resources which were better used on conventional arms. Japan was hobbled by the rift between the army and navy, which did not coordinate as well as they should have. Both Axis nations were also affected by easy victory in the early stages of the war, which prevented them from developing both new tactics and new weapons. Germanys' qualitative advantage in arms was reversed by 1944, when even Soviet weaponry was more advanced. Leadership mattered as well. Overy is not a great admirer of Winston Churchill, but views him as the right man in a time of war. Hitler on the other hand, embodied poor leadership and hurt the German war effort through his stubborness and inept decision-making. Finally, Overy makes the stunning assertion that morality is a major factor in determining the outcomes of war. While the Axis populations were unsure of their cause, the Allies were certain of theirs, and because of it, fought harder and better. It is an original and powerful assertion which I hope will be examine elsewhere as well.    The book focuses on the war with Germany, and the war with Japan is relegated to a minor role. One hopes that perhaps Overy will update his book to include more about Japan. Perhaps the only unsatisfactory section is the prologue, in which Overy gives his own interpretation of the origins of the war. His explanation focuses on the depression and the Axis powers' quest for economic security, which they believed could only be accomplished through violence. His explanation leaves out power explanations favored by Realist thinkers. But this is really not the focus of the book. For what it deals with it is not only a definitive answer, but also well-written and engrossing to read.	1999-09-28
US	51938214	R1BHTK93TKYHPB	0195110005	670824194	The Course of Mexican History	Books	5	52	52	N	N	The Best Textbook on the Subject Available	Meyer and Sherman's classic work is the best starting point for understanding Mexico's rich history. It is easy to read with many illustrations, yet sophisticated and complete. The authors take us from  Mexico's early Indian civilizations through the Aztecs and the Spanish  Conquest. The Colonial period recieves somewhat brief treatment, but the  revolution and early independence period do not. The Porfiriato and  Revolution of 1910 are carefully examined,as is the post-1940 era. The  authors treat their material with great reverance and are careful with  their moral judgements of the many controversial actors.	1999-09-28
US	51938214	R3MUXL0QXMZ78Z	0671510991	945585365	Diplomacy (Touchstone Book)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Richly Detailed Diplomatic History of the Great Powers	Former National Security Advisor and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger has written a superb book about the diplomatic relations between the Great Powers since the origins of the state system since the Peace of Westphalia in 1648. What is particularly interesting about this book is that the majority of it is written by Kissinger the academic; But three chapters covering the Nixon-Ford years are written by Kissinger the Statesmen. Kissinger tries to place himself within the context of other leaders throughout history, and show he tried to construct a foreign policy based on stratetic interests, and not moral or ideological concerns, which he believes have traditionally hampered US Foreign Policy. He is careful not to overplay his own role however. By far the majority of the narrative discusses other eras, with a special focus on the Cold War. Kissinger also explains his own theory of state behavior: States have overlapping and conflicting interests. Thus a certain amount of interstate war is inevitible. A statesmen should therefore focus on security, best gained through power, while leaving humanitarian and utopian issues aside. But the book is mostly a diplomatic history, focusing on the actions of individual leaders, and as such a compelling read.	1999-09-28
US	51938214	RWG3XCTXDRGI3	0714641464	978248456	Realism: Restatements and Renewal (Cass Series on Security Studies)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Great Updating of the Realist Paradigm	This book is an edited volume of some of the latest writings in Realist thought. Included in the introduction by Frankel is a quick review of Realist assumptions which many may find useful. The articles include Robert Gilpin's defense of the Realist paradigm, as well as Dale Copeland's Dynamic theory of state behavior. Also included are Randall Schweller's Neo-Classical Realism, Charles Glaser's defensive realism and Glenn Snyder's introduction of Process Variables. Joseph Grieco builds on his earlier work on Binding in explaining the EMU through a realist lens. A must for all political Realists as well as those seeking to critique the dominant paradigm of our time.	1999-09-03
US	51938214	R3QA31H233VLI2	1886110468	512891366	Real 100 Best Baseball Players	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Well-Argued and Well-Supported, but Not Perfect	Ken Shouler's list of 100 top baseball players comes with statistics and arguments to back up each of his claims. Shouler is particularly partial to onbase percentage and slugging percentage, as are most Sabermetricians. The list Shouler produces is convincing, and well articulated. The problem with Shouler's list is that he does not adjust enough for changes in the game across eras. The 1930's saw the highest offensive outputs of any decade until the 1990's. The big numbers put up by hitters in the thirties leads Shouler to vastly overrate Lou Gehrig and Jimmie Foxx. Players in pitching rich eras are likewise penalized, most notably Mickey Mantle. Shouler notes that Mantle hit over 100 RBIS only four times. But if we normalize those stats to a league where 750 runs a years is the average, Mantle ends up with 10 seasons over 100 RBIS. But no system has been able to fairly evaluate these changes over time until the recent publication of the Win Shares system in the  New Bill James Historical Abstract. While I found the Win Shares system more useful, I still found Shoulers' book an excellent reference and a good guide to judge against other lists of top players. Highly recomended!	1999-08-30
US	51938214	R1KPNAU5VFFTBI	0374523495	58480373	Deterring Democracy	Books	1	28	68	N	N	Full of Factual Errors	There are several problems with this book that would not be apparant to readers without a background in the subject. The very first chapter, in which Chomsky discusses the historiography of the Cold War, contains false statements and ommissions.  Chomsky states that there are two major theories of the Cold War, one is the Orthodox school which views the Soviets as the aggressor, and the Revisionist school which sees the US as the instigator. According to Chomsky, the Orthodox school is an ideological construct and therefore suspect, since they want to blame the Soviets for everything. Historians should be objective, Chomsky says, and the Orthodox historians are biased, unlike the Revisionists who are unemotional and detached. When we look at this, it becomes clear that the US is the aggressor and the Soviets simply defending themselves. This is very problematic, however. The fact is that there aren't two schools in the issue, but three, the third which Chomsky never even mentions. The third school of thought is the Realist Revionist, or Post-Revisionist school, which in fact suits the criteria that Chomsky lays out better than his own theory. The Realist Revisionists argue that the Cold War was an inevitable result of a bipolar system in which the security interests of the United States and the Soviet Union came into conflict over the future of Europe and East Asia. It then continued as the two sides vied for influence in the Third World. Neither side is really &quot;blamed,&quot; since they were both trying to protect themselves. This theory thus suits Chomskys criteria that we not used ideology to blame one side. It is also balanced, cold, and unemotional. As for the Orthodox school, Chomsky badly misrepresents them. As an example of the Orthodox school he cites the John Birch Society and other such fringe groups. Nowhere does he even mention the founding father of the Orthodox school, George C. Kennan, whose writings on the Soviet Union were anything but ideologically biased or extreme. Kennan claimed that insecurity and fear on invasion were more important in Soviet calculus than Communism. Repeated invasions led to an aggressive policy in which the Soviets sought to aggrandize all the neighboring territories they could. The only course for the US was to counter the Soviets wherever possible. None of this is even mentioned. These ommissions are inexcusable. There are similar such problems throughout the book. In the preface, Chomsky lays out his theory of state behavior, in which he states it is the economic interest of the elites that drives US policy. External variables, such as security, and military and political contraints are excluded. This is known as a reductionist theory, and since it doesnt take into account all levels of analysis, it is deeply flawed. Finally, there is the  chapter on the Drug Scare of 1989. According to Chomsky the hysterical reation in the nation to Drugs that year was a deliberate plan set up by the Bush administration to distract the populace from real issues. Other explanations are not considered, and of course, little concrete proof is offered. This hypothesis, like many of Chomksy's is non-fallsifiable, meaning it cannot be disproved, and thus can't really be tested. In sum, this book is littered with methodological, historiographical, and theoretical flaws.cally biased or extreme. Kennan claimed that insecurity and fear on invasion were more important in Soviet calculus than Communism. Repeated invasions led to an aggressive policy in which the Soviets sought to aggrandize all the neighboring territories they could. The only course for the US was to counter the Soviets wherever possible. None of this is even mentioned. These ommissions are inexcusable. There are similar such problems throughout the book. In the preface, Chomsky lays out his theory of state behavior, in which he states it is the economic interest of the elites that drives US policy. External variables, such as security, and military and political contraints are excluded. This is known as a reductionist theory, and since it doesnt take into account all levels of analysis, it is deeply flawed. Finally, there is the  chapter on the Drug Scare of 1989. According to Chomsky the hysterical reation in the nation to Drugs that year was a deliberate plan set up by the Bush administration to distract the populace from real issues. Other explanations are not considered, and of course, little concrete proof is offered. This hypothesis, like many of Chomksy's is non-fallsifiable, meaning it cannot be disproved, and thus can't really be tested. In sum, this book is littered with methodological, historiographical, and theoretical flaws.	1999-08-30
