US	51931486	RLU6VYEYW3W4N	0395486688	931823313	Two Bad Ants	Books	5	20	22	N	N	"Two Bad Ants" learn a valuable life-lesson.	\\"Two Bad Ants\\" was first published over ten years ago, but I somehow overlooked it.  This gem is worth adding to your collection of children's books, and it's one that children enjoy hearing over and over again.  Best of all, \\"Two Bad Ants\\" is a book that YOU won't tire of READING aloud to your kids!!  What I love about this book is that Van Allsburg isn't afraid to use big words in a book for children; simplistic books are great for kids who are trying to learn to read, but they need books with more complicated vocabulary in order to increase their understanding of language.  Van Allsburg really delivers with this well-written, suspenseful, entertaining tale of two ants who discover a scary world they'd never dreamed existed:  a modern kitchen, replete with electrical appliances and the inherent dangers thereof.  Van Allsburg delivers the story's message simply and directly on the last page of the book:  the ants learn that they belong at home and that will be happiest in their familiar surroundings.  The easy life they'd envisioned could be theirs in the strange new indoor world of the house was more dangerous than they could have imagined, and wasn't worth the trouble.<br />The drawings are simple and clean, and the color-pallette is limited, which makes for fewer distractions.  The artwork is really fantastic, but the vivid pictures Van Allsburg draws with his rich, descriptive complex sentences are even more satisfying.  This is a book that my children and I will enjoy for years to come.	2002-01-31
US	51931486	R1L5UFRAC3J9QS	0374100128	647099960	The Corrections	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Disappointing.	I read \\"The Corrections\\" because it was an Oprah selection, but, like so many of her picks, the novel was just dark and depressing and gave me an overall feeling of hopelessness. The family dynamics were interesting and I found myself wanting to learn how the family members' lives played out, but Franzen really fell short, in my opinion, in many ways. I felt that after the author had spent so much time/so many pages describing mundane events in the characters' lives in excruciating detail, he could at least devote a little more attention to describing the later years of the characters; he just sort of glossed over huge periods of time by the end of the novel.<br />Learning about various aspects of dementia was fairly interesting, but I found the account of the protagonist's \\"battle\\" with a turd to be just too far-out and, frankly, disgusting. In fact, I read that passage to my father as we drove on a vacation together, and he actually told me to QUIT READING aloud to him. He simply couldn't stand any more. Now, my Dad is a senior citizen, but he has excellent taste in books, and he wouldn't have spent the time I did on \\"The Corrections.\\" That's not to say that I don't have discriminating tastes; I like to think that I do. I'm just unwilling to give up on a book. I kept reading, waiting for the novel to improve; it just didn't deliver.<br />I heard a little about the furor over the author refusing to appear on Oprah's show. Did she slap her corporate logo and accompanying endorsement onto the book without even asking the author? If is that what happened, it is understandable that Franzen would be more than a little disconcerted. After reading \\"The Corrections,\\" I can't understand what made Oprah think it was such a terrific read; I just didn't enjoy it, and I didn't really learn any important life-lessons from the novel. I hated all the characters in the book, and I almost never experience that with a book. I can almost always find something good about somebody; Franzen made that task extremely difficult.nzen made that task extremely difficult.	2002-01-26
US	51931486	R1QJ9TKRG7NUV3	0786804130	638983362	Max Loves Sunflowers (Jump at the Sun)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Adorable pop-up book!	Our Children's Librarian used this book for my daughter's ToddlerTime class the day that we planted sunflower seeds, and all the children LOVED &quot;Max Loves Sunflowers.&quot;  The bright colors, simple line-drawings and movement on every page captured the interest of all the two-year-olds in the class.  I highly recommend this book for youngsters; kids can watch the sunflower &quot;grow&quot; from seed to seedling to a huge plant.  Very entertaining, colorful, and fun!	2001-04-19
US	51931486	R61ZISQ7VC6LO	0399219110	857940487	The Matchlock Gun	Books	4	33	38	N	N	1942 Newbery Medal winner; a gripping tale of bravery.	Winner of the 1942 John Newbery Medal for most significant contribution to children's literature, &quot;The Matchlock Gun&quot; is one of the shortest--yet one of the most memorable--of all the Newbery Medal books.  I've read every one of the Newbery books from 1922 through 2000, and this little story made a big impression on me.  The novel covers but a day in the life of a very young boy who is left at home with the huge responsibility of safeguarding his family in the absence of his father.<br />SYNOPSIS:  Edward (&quot;Ateoord&quot; in the story) Van Alstyne's father, Teunis, is a captain in the Guilderland militia and leaves the family overnight to defend their small community outside Albany City, NY against the French and Indians.  The militia is unable to hold the Indians at the bridge, however, and five Indians reach the Van Alstyne farm.<br />Gertrude (Edward's mother) has the foresight to rig up her grandfather's heavy, awkward Spanish matchlock gun through a hole in the window shutter and acts as a decoy, picking beans in the garden, until the Indians reach the house.  Edward must then defend his wounded mother and protect his family with the huge, ungainly weapon.<br />IMPRESSIONS:  Today it is quite seldom that extremely young children must bear adult responsibilities in the face of such danger.  Historical fiction like this is compelling reading; &quot;The Matchlock Gun&quot; is a very brief but well-written story which should interest any young reader.	2001-01-10
US	51931486	R33RQNZ428ZAP8	0670104353	944029453	Adam of the Road	Books	4	33	37	N	N	1943 Newbery Medal ; interesting tale of medieval England	So many of today's children know little of true hardship and deprivation.  It's good to let them read about what life was like when one traveled on horseback or on foot rather than by wagon or car, when one used candles rather than electric lights, and when one was warmed by a campfire or fire in a hearth rather than by central heat.  The detail provided in &quot;Adam of the Road&quot; about the way that young Adam supported himself on a daily basis makes history come alive for the reader.  Adam's existence was hand-to-mouth, gritty, and portrayed quite realistically.<br />SYNOPSIS:  Adam Quartermayne, a minstrel's son, travels all over southern England from June, 1294 to April, 1295, first accompanying his father, Roger, and then in search of his dog Nick--and then in search of his father.  In the process Adam grows up and becomes more resourceful and self-reliant.  Both Roger and his son are honest and believe in working to earn their keep.  Adam learns the hard way that most others of the traveling-minstrel profession are unscrupulous.  A minstrel named Jankin gambles with Roger and wins Bayard, a retired workhorse, from Roger.  When Jankin abuses the animal and makes it lame, he steals Adam's beloved red spaniel for the dog's companionship and for the tricks the dog can perform.<br />IMPRESSIONS:  &quot;Adam of the Road&quot; can certainly serve to teach many positive messages to young readers.  Adam's perseverence in the face of discouragement, his courage and positive attitude in the face of failure and disappointment, and his ability to adapt to change are wonderful values that it's important for children to learn to recognize and incorporate into their own characters.	2001-01-10
US	51931486	R1TMUK4767P3ZC	0140303588	258060316	Roller Skates	Books	1	12	23	N	N	1937 Newbery Winner; I WON'T let MY children read this book!	How could this book have won such a prestigious award?  I wouldn't dream of having my children read &quot;Roller Skates&quot; because the plot contains a senseless, brutal murder that is unresolved.  The inexplicable murder seems out of place, truly unnecessary in an otherwise-unobjectionable story.  In fact, the deaths of two of Lucinda's friends are not explained or reacted to by Lucinda in a way which enhances my understanding of the story or of the main character's behavior, so I have trouble with both plot-points.<br />SYNOPSIS:  Ten-year-old Lucinda Wyman spends a year in a New York City orphanage in the care of two spinsters, the Peters sisters, while her parents (Bessie and Frank) travel to Europe to improve Lucinda's mother's health.  Lucinda is unlike the rest of her snooty, wealthy family and makes friends with all sorts of commoners:  Patrolman McGonegal, Patrick Gilligan (the hansom cabbie), Tony Coppino (the fruit stand owner's son), Mr. Spindler (the hotel manager) and an entire assortment of New York stereotypes.  The story is set in the 1890s and Lucinda travels the city on roller skates as much as possible.  She is favored by her Uncle Earle, but falls out with interfering Aunt Emily (her mother's sister) over her sewing and her inability to mimic her four perfect, ladylike cousins.  Lucinda befriends a little four-year-old girl named Trinket Brodowski (daughter of a penniless violinist) and treats her to a very special Christmas, but the girl becomes sick and dies despite the best efforts of Lucinda's doctor, Hitchcock.  Lucinda's friend Mrs. Grose (whom she calls Princess Zayda) is murdered, but this is never explained.  Lucinda grows up and says she &quot;skated away and never really came back.&quot;  Is it any wonder?	2001-01-09
US	51931486	R17N2E93UDZX4K	0027136701	458273594	Caddie Woodlawn	Books	3	2	8	N	N	1936 John Newbery Medal winner, a so-so novel.	Set in 1864 in the woods of western Wisconsin, Caroline Augusta Woodlawn's story as set forth in the novel is based largely on facts known about the real Caddie Woodlawn.  An 11-year-old tomboy, Caddie always manages to get herself out of the scrapes she gets into; she rides alone at night to warn her Indian friends of an attack planned by white settlers; she takes apart the Circuit Rider's clock, etc.  She is close with all her siblings ecxept for sister Clara.  Tom, Warren, Hetty (Henrietta), Minnie and Little Joe and her parents, John and Harriet, are loving and close-knit as a family can be, and they are happy to be forging a new life in the wilderness--with the exception of Mother and Clara, the eldest, who miss Boston society, fashion and gossip since they left their old home in the East.  Father is English and at story's end must decide whether to return to England to claim his fortune, land and title or to remain in America as farmers.<br />There are certainly Caddie-fans out there!  Personally, I found this book only mildly interesting, but I do advocate most any story that gets children to read--and interested in reading more books.  In my opinion, historical fiction is preferable to stories without a basis in fact, so &quot;Caddie Woodlawn&quot; is a good book to start with for kids ages 9-12 who have some curiosity about America's past.	2001-01-09
US	51931486	RLM3IZJ86WA2A	0805003061	215682342	Thimble Summer	Books	2	19	37	N	N	1939 Newbery Medal winner; childish, simplistic, a fast read	This is an appropriate selection for younger readers and for adults who enjoy childhood reminiscences about hard work and the simple pleasures that make all that hard work pay off.<br />SYNOPSIS:  9 1/2-year old Garnet Linden lives on a Wisconsin farm with her parents, older brother Jay and younger brother Donald and enjoys the typical pleasures of childhood near a small midwest town:  swimming in the river, hitching a ride into town, and the county fair.  The night that Garnet finds a silver thimble in the river bed the drought breaks and the crops are saved, so her father is kept from financial ruin.  The thimble brings even more good luck:  her father receives a government loan with which to replace their old barn and a 13-year-old orphan, Eric Swanstrom, stumbles upon the Lindens as they're firing limestone at midnight with which to make cement, plaster and whitewash for the barn.  Eric stays on with the family and helps with the chores and replaces Garnet as Jay's best friend and constant companion.  Garnet deepens her friendship with neighbor Citronella Hauser, 11, and they have adventures of their own together.  Mr. Freebody, another neighbor, always looks out for Garnet and provides a concerned ear and offers good advice.  She feels that all her good fortune is due to the magic silver thimble she found and vows to always refer to this special summer as the &quot;Thimble Summer.&quot;<br />I think, deep down, everyone wishes he or she had a childhood this idyllic.  Although I grew up in a city, I did spend weeks at a time on my grandparents' farms (I was lucky; my grandparents on both sides were very small-scale dairy farmers) during my childhood, and I enjoyed the rustic charms of farm living.  I loved gathering eggs in the henhouse, climbing the tree that grew out of a creek-bank, catching frogs in the pond with my cousins, and catching crawdads in a culvert--all on my grandparents' farm!  My other Grandma had a huge watering-trough that was fun, a spooky spring-house, and numerous sheds and barns to explore.  &quot;Thimble Summer&quot; has a way of bringing back many of these memories.spring-house, and numerous sheds and barns to explore.  &quot;Thimble Summer&quot; has a way of bringing back many of these memories.	2001-01-09
US	51931486	R3S82C2M7SH6QG	0440400023	281609656	The Voyages of Doctor Dolittle	Books	2	7	28	N	N	Why is this book considered a &quot;classic&quot; novel for children?	&quot;The Voyages of Doctor Dolittle&quot; is the 1923 winner of the John Newbery Medal, the annual award given to the author of the fictional work which makes the most outstanding contribution to children's literature among all books published in the U.S.  The Newbery Medal was first awarded in 1922, so it was a very new competition when &quot;Dolittle&quot; was selected.<br />I'll go out on a limb here and disagree with practically everyone who's reviewed this book:  I found &quot;The Voyages of Doctor Dolittle&quot; to be utter nonsense from beginning to end.  Preposterous situations, ridiculous conversations between animals and people, a talking dog on the witness stand in a courtroom, and a snail whose shell holds enough oxygen for several humans to travel underwater from the South Atlantic to England all combine to create a story too fantastic for me to stomach.  There were far fewer books written specifically for children early in the 20th century; the competition must have  been nothing compared to today!<br />This book is, however, an easy read and perhaps would interest younger readers who like animals and who can embrace the idea of animals who can talk like--amd with--humans.<br />Synopsis:  10-year-old Tommy Stubbins meets the famed Dr. John Dolittle and begins working for him, then convinces his parents to let him be apprenticed to Dolittle.  Tommy then accompanies the naturalist on a two-year research mission to Spidermonkey Island, their intended destination in the South Atlantic Ocean, to investigate the disappearance of Long Arrow, son of Golden Arrow.  Their ship the &quot;Curlew&quot; is broken up in a tropical storm, but Tommy, Dr. Dolittle, and Bumpo Kahboo, (crown prince of Jolliginki and old pal of Dolittle's) wash up on Spidermonkey Island.  The floating island's inhabitants, the friendly Indian tribe Popsipetels, are attacked by the Bag-jagderags and the Terrible Three defeat the Bag-jagderags and make a peace treaty.  Dolittle is crowned King Jong Thinkalot, and the natives' cheers cause a boulder at Whispering Rocks to fall into the Deep Hole, making the island stationary (and therefore safe).  The Great Glass Sea-Snail is injured in his escape from the Deep Hole and is nursed back to health by Dolittle.  The snail then transports the English party back to Puddlesby-by-the-Marsh by crawling along the ocean floor, thus helping Dolittle escape the Indians and their island.  The doctor's parrot Polynesia carefully plans their getaway to be disguised as King Jong's &quot;vacation,&quot; when in reality he just wants off the fantasy island.<br />Man!  I would too!!  See, doesn't it sound like somebody ate too many raw onions before going to bed one night?  What a nightmare!  Now, before you think I'm just an old crank, you should realize that I didn't like the book when I was a kid; why would I like it now?  Some things never change--and neither do some people.ed King Jong Thinkalot, and the natives' cheers cause a boulder at Whispering Rocks to fall into the Deep Hole, making the island stationary (and therefore safe).  The Great Glass Sea-Snail is injured in his escape from the Deep Hole and is nursed back to health by Dolittle.  The snail then transports the English party back to Puddlesby-by-the-Marsh by crawling along the ocean floor, thus helping Dolittle escape the Indians and their island.  The doctor's parrot Polynesia carefully plans their getaway to be disguised as King Jong's &quot;vacation,&quot; when in reality he just wants off the fantasy island.<br />Man!  I would too!!  See, doesn't it sound like somebody ate too many raw onions before going to bed one night?  What a nightmare!  Now, before you think I'm just an old crank, you should realize that I didn't like the book when I was a kid; why would I like it now?  Some things never change--and neither do some people.	2001-01-09
US	51931486	R1IDADTXSQXQ6W	002750140X	871087366	The Trumpeter of Krakow	Books	5	112	117	N	N	1929 Newbery Medal--Wonderful, interesting for all ages.	In the 13th century (1241), a Polish boy was killed by the arrow of an invading Tartar from the East, silencing his trumpet a few notes short of completion of the &quot;Heynal,&quot; the Hymn to Our Lady, as he stood on a little balcony of the Church of Our Lady Mary in Krakow, Poland.  Ever since that event subsequent trumpeters have stopped at the same point in the Heynal as it is sounded four times on the hour, all day and night as a signal that all is well.  This legend is based in history.<br />The story of Joesph Charnetski-Kowalski, set in 1461, is fictional.  Joseph's father, Pan Andrew Charnetski is the guardian of the Great Tarnov Crystal, which has been in his family's safekeeping for over 200 years.  When Tarnov fell to the Tartars, the gem was entrusted to a Charnetski to hide until such time as its whereabouts became known, at which time it was to be given to the the King of Poland (Kazimir Jagiello in the story).<br />Pan Andrew, his wife, and son Joseph are driven from their farm in the Ukraine by Tartars who burned their home and destroyed their fields.  Fleeing to the city for safety, they assume a new surname in Krakow and Andrew becomes the new church trumpeter.  The family lives in a house with alchemist Nicholas Kreutz and his niece Elzbietka.  The crystal, a stone of tremendous importance and power, is the object of pursuit by Bogdan the Terrible (Peter of the Button Face).  When he discovers the Charnetskis' location and tries to steal the Crystal from them, one-third of Krakow burns to the ground.<br />Danger and intrigue follow the Charnetski family; readers of all ages will enjoy this story.  That there is a basis in fact/history for the novel makes it even more fascinating.  Treat yourself or a pre-teen/teenager to this award-winning book!	2001-01-09
US	51931486	RKOR9KWYHHINS	0764108689	943583966	Five Little Ducks (Five Little Ducks and Mother)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Really cute illustrations.	The Children's Librarian at our local library read this book last week to my daughter's &quot;ToddlerTime&quot; class--with enthusiastic results from the children.  Using a flannel-board with five ducks and a mother duck, she also had the children act out the story; each child came and took a baby duck and then returned it to the board as the mama duck called it home.  It was a great reinforcement for the two-year-olds and helped them follow the action in the story.  So many times we wonder if very young children are truly comprehending what is read to them; having the kids act out a story really helps increase their understanding.  As a craft activity, the librarian then had the children glue brightly-colored feathers to construction paper ducklings, then glue a large popsicle stick to the back so the duck could be used as a puppet.	2000-10-16
US	51931486	R2PV5JE8XPV5TK	0307129020	869751722	Kitty Whiskers (My First Golden Tiny Touch Book)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good for kitty-lovers of all ages.	&quot;Kitty Whiskers&quot; is comprised of ten unnumbered pages of darling  illustrations which demonstrate the many uses to which kitties put their  whiskers.  Cheerful but simple illustrations of cats feature various  textured materials behind cutouts to give young children a kinesthetic  pleasure:  a smooth, slick bowl of milk; cotton batting as a cat's tail; a  felt mouse-hole; and a sateen kitten's nose!  My son (now almost four)  liked this book so well that he wore it out, so to speak; the cardboard  cover has been pulled off the plastic binder! I especially like the  creative explanations of the purposes of kitty whiskers:  to decorate their  faces; to dip in their milk; to tell the direction of the wind; to measure  mouse-holes; and to tickle their owners' toes!  ISBN 0-307-12902-0	2000-09-09
US	51931486	R2FRI5K8M3HUZT	0307070158	172782160	Patsy the pussycat (A Golden tell-a-tale book)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Innocuous children's story about finding where you belong.	Patsy lives quite happily with Farmer John and his wife until one day when  her familiar routine is upset. When the farmer's wife, Rebecca, suddenly  repaints the kitchen, Patsy leaves the house to find a more stable place to  be. One by one, Patsy tells each of the farm animals of her plight and each  offers to let Patsy live and eat with him/her, but Patsy realizes that the  only place where she'll be happy is her kitchen. When the cat returns to  the house, Rebecca has finished repainting the kitchen and everything  returns to normal. Moral of the story: change, however unsettling, can be  good--and is survivable! This book has cute, realistic illustrations done  in bright colors. The farmer and his wife are plump, friendly-looking  people; what's not to love about a family like that? This book is best  suited for kids between two and five years of age.	2000-09-09
US	51931486	R2DRYWQ4JDK934	0690013590	127537711	Bridge to Terabithia	Books	4	148	165	N	N	Tragic story, 1978 Newbery Medal-winner, will make you cry.	CHARACTERS: Jesse Oliver Aarons, Jr., a ten-year-old boy, middle child in a family of four sisters, whose parents are desperately poor; and Leslie  Burke, new girl from the city whose arrival forever changes Jesse's life  and the attitudes of the students at Lark Creek Elementary  School.<br />SUMMARY: Young Jesse, who lives in poverty in the countryside in  Virgnia, has big plans for the first week of school: he's run hard all  summer and is sure he's now the fastest boy in fifth grade. Despite the  fact that his dream is shattered by the arrival of a lean, lanky girl named  Leslie Burke who moves to his school district from Arlington, Jesse and the  newcomer become best friends. She never gloats over the fact that SHE is  the fastest kid in the class, and the fact that the two are outcasts at  school draws them into friendship.<br />Together the two find, name, and  create a magical kingdom in the woods that they reach by swinging across a  creek on a rope tied to a tree limb. Jesse and Leslie keep Terabithia their  secret, telling neither family nor schoolmates about the hours of  make-believe fun they spend there. They name themselves king and queen of  Terabithia and play elaborate games almost every day.<br />Leslie's parents  are attractive, educated professional writers who left their busy lives in  the city for the simplicity and quiet of the country. The Burkes begin  fixing up an old house close to Jesse's, and Jesse proves himself quite  handy with carpentry and electrical repairs. When the weather is unfit for  playing in the woods, Jesse and Leslie help Mr. Burke at home.<br />Jesse has  a crush on the beautiful music teacher who was new to the school district  the previous year. Fearing ridicule from his family (particulary his  father) and classmates, Jesse has shown his artwork only to Miss Edmunds.  One rainy day she invites Jesse to accompany her to Washington DC to see  the National Gallery. Jesse is awed by the fabulous works of art, and  regrets only that he didn't think to ask his teacher if Leslie could come  with them.<br />When he returns from Washington, Jesse learns at a tender age  how irrevocably one's life can change in the course of one short day.<br />IMPRESSIONS: This was required reading for a children's literature  course that I took; otherwise, I probably wouldn't have chosen it on my  own, judging solely by the title. However, &quot;Bridge to Terabithia&quot;  is an excellent book.  It's a quick read, but one that will leave you  crying for hours--which is exactly what you want from a book sometimes!s only that he didn't think to ask his teacher if Leslie could come  with them.<br />When he returns from Washington, Jesse learns at a tender age  how irrevocably one's life can change in the course of one short day.  <br />IMPRESSIONS: This was required reading for a children's literature  course that I took; otherwise, I probably wouldn't have chosen it on my  own, judging solely by the title. However, &quot;Bridge to Terabithia&quot;  is an excellent book.  It's a quick read, but one that will leave you  crying for hours--which is exactly what you want from a book sometimes!	2000-08-24
US	51931486	R2HKJPHZM5KKWM	0374386137	598774312	A Wrinkle in Time (A Wrinkle in Time Quintet)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	1963 Newbery Medal-winner, and so deserving!	CHARACTERS: Margaret &quot;Meg&quot; Murray, 12-year-old social misfit and math-whiz; her baby brother Charles Wallace, a 5-year-old genius who can  read his Mom's and sister's minds, and whom neighbors and kids at school  think is mentally retarded; Calvin O'Keefe, age 14, a popular 11th-grader  from Meg's school; Mrs. Whatsit, Mrs. Who, and Mrs. Which, three beings  from another dimension who help the children travel through time/space in  order to try and rescue Mr. Murray, their scientist father.<br />SUMMARY:  Physicist Mr. Murray has been working on top-secret government projects, so  secret he hasn't even told his family the nature of his research. His  letters stopped after he'd been away on a special mission and Meg's family  is never given an explanation for his disappearance. Mrs. Murray, a  biologist and bacteriologist, believes he'll return and encourages her  children to believe it, too.<br />Meg hears about a mysterious newcomer and  learns her baby brother has already met the eccentric Mrs. Whatsit.  The  stranger, Mrs. Whatsit, and her two associates are time- and  space-travelers who, using a mode of travel called &quot;tessering&quot;--a  concept Mr. Murray had researched before his disappearance--take Meg,  Calvin, and Charles Wallace away from Earth in search of Mr. Murray. From a  planet in another system they can see through the thin atmosphere that a  dark cloud or shadow, an evil Black Thing, surrounds another planet; they  learn Mr. Murray has been fighting the Black Thing for years. They are  shown the Thing surrounding a planet other than Earth, then they see that  IT casts a pall over Earth as well. The children are frightened, but  determined to rescue Mr. Murray and to fight IT themselves in order to rid  their world if IT's evil influence.<br />Mrs. Whatsit sends Meg, Charles  Wallace and Calvin to Camazotz, where Mr. Murray is being held by humanoids  who are loyal to IT. He's been holding out mentally, but is beginning to  weaken just as the children arrive. With the wisdom imparted to them by  Mrs. Whatsit, Mrs. Who and Mrs. Which, will they be able to break through  the barrier imprisoning Mr. Murray? In the process of finding Meg's father,  baby brother Charles falls victim to IT's mind control. The others tesser  away from Camazotz to a safe planet, but are forced to leave Charles  Wallace behind.<br />Meg, by far the most fearful of IT of the would-be  rescuers, must be the one to return to Camazotz in order to save Charles  Wallace from IT, as she's the only one who can reach Charles Wallace's mind  and wrench control of it away from the evil power of IT. When Meg returns  to the planet, which has been under IT's control for some time, she must  try to gain entry to her little brother's mind, but how can she outwit the  huge intellect of IT? Mrs. Which told her that she has something that IT  did not have, and this will be her only weapon--if only she can realize  what can reach through IT to her brother.<br />Will the family be finally  reunited? Will everyone escape the evil power of IT unscathed, or will  there be lasting repercussions? Read this nearly-forty-year-old book to  find out.<br />IMPRESSIONS: One of my favorite books from childhood, &quot;A  Wrinkle in Time&quot; is a novel that I have reread many, many times, even  throughout my adult life.  Believable, touching, and teaching all at once,  it is a timeless classic of American modern literature. Meg teaches us all  that we can turn our weaknesses into strengths, and that good really can  triumph over evil.  Also consider the fact that a WOMAN (Madeleine L'Engle)  wrote this novel in 1962. She really was ahead of her time! I recommend  this book for kids in middle school and high school--and to their parents,  because sharing and discussing a book together is incredibly rewarding and  enlightening. To really learn how a kid's mind works, tap in through the  mutual enjoyment of a well-written book. There are no sassy-mouthedpre-teens or adult situations in this book, so &quot;A Wrinkle in  Time&quot; is an excellent choice!d  pre-teens or adult situations in this book, so &quot;A Wrinkle in  Time&quot; is an excellent choice!	2000-08-24
US	51931486	R1Z2JGTXB5RKT7	0385079060	160627809	The Cay	Books	5	107	129	N	N	This novel should  have won the Newbery Medal.	PLOT SPOILERS / WARNING:  Do not read this review/summary if you haven't yet read the book!!<br /><br />CHARACTERS: Phillip Enright, 11, American citizen living with his parents on Curacao; Timothy, an elderly black West Indian deckhand; and Stew Cat, a  tomcat shipwrecked along with them.<br /><br />SUMMARY: In February 1942 the Germans  attack an oil refinery on Aruba, neighboring island of Curacao, Dutch  island off the Venezuelan coast. Young Phillip is living in Willemstad,  Curacao, with his parents, but after the attack his mother wants to return  to America.  Phillip and Father are against the plan, but eventually Mother  gets her way.<br /><br />Just days out to sea, the Germans torpedo the Dutch  freighter Phillip and his mother have boarded to flee Curacao.  The ship  breaks up and sinks; mother and son are separated.  Mrs. Enright's fate is  unknown, but Phillip is hauled onto a lifeboat by a very old black West  Indian who'd been a crewmember on board the \\"Hato.\\" The only  other occupant of the lifeboat is an old cat named Stew Cat; the three are  adrift on the open sea for days with only a keg of water, some matches and  a few crackers.<br /><br />Phillip was struck on the head when the \\"Hato\\"  was sunk, and he has a splitting headache and concussion. After two days on  the raft with Timothy and Stew Cat, he goes completely blind. On the third  day at sea a plane flies overhead and Timothy signals for help with a  torch, but they are not seen.<br /><br />Timothy, Phillip and the cat make it to a  small island that the old Negro, an old sea-hand, figures must be in the  Devil's Mouth. Phillips initial reaction to Timothy is one of revulsion; he  finds the big black man ugly and frightening. His mother's prejudice  against blacks is a factor in his attitude, but Phillip eventually  overcomes it and they truly become friends.<br /><br />When they first land on the  island, Phillip feigns helplessness, refusing all labor. Timothy encourages  the boy and teaches him to make things they'll need. When the boy gathers  the courage to climb a coconut palm, he stops feeling sorry for himself and  decides to do as much as he can. He is no longer a helpless blind boy.  Timothy begins teaching Phillip survival skills--without telling the boy  that he is preparing him for survival on the island after the old man  dies.<br /><br />In July with a terrible hurricane brewing, Timothy makes  preparations for it, including lashing their water tank, matches and knife  high on the trunk of a palm tree. They survive the first part of the storm  and rest while the hurricane's eye is over them. Then they again lash  themselves to the tree again to wait out the storm. After the hurricane,  Phillip finds that Timothy has borne the brunt of the storm to protect him;  the big West Indian's back is flayed open by sand and things driven by the  high winds, and Phillip can't stop Timothy's bleeding. The old man dies.  Stew Cat, who was missing after the fierce storm, reappears.<br /><br />Initially  the boy feels anger in response to the man's death, but gradually realizes  how much Timothy did to prepare him for life alone. In addition to teaching  Phillip to get around the cay without assistance, Timothy left a dozen  fishing poles lashed to another palm trunk and had taught Phillip as much  as he himself knew about survival.<br /><br />Phillip has to bury Timothy, construct  a new hut, prepare another signal fire on the beach and a \\"HELP\\"  message of stones, build a new rainwater catchment, clean the camp of  debris, restart his campfire, and search for anything useful the hurricane  might have deposited on the cay. At first the amount of work to be done  seems overwhelming, but Phillip approaches the situation calmly,  rationally, and with intensity.<br /><br />Phillip's first signal fire goes  unnoticed, so he determines something oily will make a black smoke visible  from a distance. On August 20, 1942 what he thinks is thunder is reallya  destroyer, so he throws oily sea grape leaves on the signal fire, which  emits black smoke visible to rescuers.<br /><br />The deeply-suntanned boy could've  been mistaken for a native fisherman, but the captain of an American  destroyer hunting German submarines has the boy and Stew Cat picked up. The  captain can't believe Phillip could've drifted so far from where the  \\"Hato\\" was sunk, and he's most astonished to have found a naked  blind boy and a cat on a deserted island in the Caribbean.<br /><br />Phillip's  put ashore in Panama for medical treatment and his parents are flown in  from Curacao. They can't absorb all that their son has to tell them of his  time on the cay. Four months after his rescue Phillip has three surgeries  to restore his eyesight. The following April, a year after the shipwreck,  he returns to Willemstad with his parents.<br /><br />IMPRESSIONS: Beyond the  obvious but meaningful theme of overcoming racial prejudices, this is a  powerful story about growing up, becoming independent despite physical  disability, and about strength and self-reliance beyond the levels required  of most human beings--let alone a child.  \\"THE CAY\\" is a most  interesting, believable and memorable book. I'm glad to have read it.a  destroyer, so he throws oily sea grape leaves on the signal fire, which  emits black smoke visible to rescuers.<br /><br />The deeply-suntanned boy could've  been mistaken for a native fisherman, but the captain of an American  destroyer hunting German submarines has the boy and Stew Cat picked up. The  captain can't believe Phillip could've drifted so far from where the  \\"Hato\\" was sunk, and he's most astonished to have found a naked  blind boy and a cat on a deserted island in the Caribbean.<br /><br />Phillip's  put ashore in Panama for medical treatment and his parents are flown in  from Curacao. They can't absorb all that their son has to tell them of his  time on the cay. Four months after his rescue Phillip has three surgeries  to restore his eyesight. The following April, a year after the shipwreck,  he returns to Willemstad with his parents.<br /><br />IMPRESSIONS: Beyond the  obvious but meaningful theme of overcoming racial prejudices, this is a  powerful story about growing up, becoming independent despite physical  disability, and about strength and self-reliance beyond the levels required  of most human beings--let alone a child.  \\"THE CAY\\" is a most  interesting, believable and memorable book. I'm glad to have read it.	2000-08-14
US	51931486	R3GW74WGWP7JFE	0316367311	41573919	One of Each	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Absolutely one of my favorite books for children.	There's not a single syllable too many in the entire book, and if you've tried to write poetry yourself, you know how difficult this is to achieve.  I love books written in rhyme, and this charming book flows beautifully and  easily, telling the story of a dog named Oliver Tolliver and his little  &quot;one-of-each&quot; house and lifestyle.  Oliver reminds me of my  confirmed-bachelor/hermit husband when he and I first met: living quietly  alone in his own neatly-ordered space and discovering the empty spots in  his heart and house that could be pleasantly filled by the companionship of  others.  At first Oliver is quite surprised to hear Peggoty's opinion of  his 'bachelor-pad':<br />  &quot;A guest in your one-of-each house does  not fit.  It's made for one person and you, sir, are it!  It's  perfect for one, sir, if he's on his own,  And so, sir, I'll go, sir,  and leave you alone.&quot;<br />but then he realizes Peggoty's assessment is  true, so he quickly outfits his house to accommodate guests.  Then Peggoty  sees the improvements:<br />  &quot;And when she arrived, she cavorted  with glee  And she said with delight, 'Why, you did this for  ME!'&quot;<br />Oliver becomes friends with an entire group of animals who  come over to socialize, and he is quite happy to have learned that sharing  is the key to happiness:<br />  &quot;And he found as he nibbled the  peach, pear, and plum  That they all tasted better when each one had  some  And that even though each person's piece might be small,  Eating with friends was the best thing of all.&quot;<br />This book is  filled cover-to-cover with incredibly bright (what I call  &quot;color-block&quot;) illustrations.  This is a favorite book of  mine--and of my children.  It's a book that I enjoy reading aloud every  time they ask for it, even when they want to hear it three times in a row.<br />My only disappointment with this book is that in our second copy of it  (which I purchased through a school book club) the illustrations are not  nearly as bright.  I wonder if this is standard for paperbooks printed for  mass-distribution.<br />Treat your kids to a fun book with cute illustrations,  and treat yourself to a book that you'll love to re-read for years!d copy of it  (which I purchased through a school book club) the illustrations are not  nearly as bright.  I wonder if this is standard for paperbooks printed for  mass-distribution.<br />Treat your kids to a fun book with cute illustrations,  and treat yourself to a book that you'll love to re-read for years!	2000-08-14
US	51931486	R1FS26YYLYK2NY	0531059383	603357475	St. Jerome and the Lion	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Beautifully-illustrated legend of St. Jerome	If you're lucky enough to run across this book, you'll be very happy to  have it in your collection of children's books.  The predominantly-dark but  gorgeous illustrations are entirely in keeping with the sombre tone of the  story as Margaret Hodges beautifully retells the legend of St. Jerome:<br />A  wounded lion finds his way to the Bethehem monastery, and among the monks  there only quiet, gentle Jerome is unafraid.  He helps the lion and  befriends him, defending his seeming unfitness for living in the monastery,  telling the monks, &quot;God must have sent the lion for our good.&quot;  Falsely accused of killing the donkey under his guard, the lion is put to  work performing the donkey's chores.  After a year, the lion finds the  donkey and brings her home to the monastery--along with the caravan of  camels belonging to the merchants who had stolen the donkey.  The merchants  give half of their inventory of Egyptian oil to the brothers at the  monastery and promise a gift of oil for the monks' lamps for posterity.<br />The book carries a strong message that one should reserve judgment  against the accused until proof is found.  It's a wonderful book and easy  to read--simply written with basic vocabulary.  Barry Moser's illustrations  are so lovely:  detailed yet lacking excessive visual distractions, and  photographic in quality--watercolor pictures painted by a real artist,  definitely not the cartoon-illustrations all too typical of children's  books today.<br />St. Jerome is the monk who two thousand years ago  translated the Bible into Latin, making the biblical scriptures accessible  for most of the world's literate people of the time.  The book is  dedicated, in part, &quot;to librarians, because Jerome is their patron  saint.&quot;	2000-08-14
US	51931486	R3719J3ZXHM8AM	0785746889	125650480	Morgan and Yew	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A lesson for young children about envy.	A dumpy little sheep named Yew wishes he could have a unicorn's horn like his best friend Morgan so that he can feel special instead of ordinary.  When the Morning Star grants Yew's wish, he wears the horn for one day, but  at the cost of his friend Morgan: the unicorn is gone!  After crying of  guilt and loneliness all night long, Yew pleads with the Morning Star to  restore things to normal.  After Morgan comes back to him and the horn is  returned to the unicorn, the two friends play together forever and Yew  never again envies his best friend.<br />Even very young children  &quot;get&quot; the message in this book.  It's been around for years--I  even used it while doing my student-teaching more than 15 years ago.  With  bright, colorful illustrations and sweet characters, this book is a  perennial favorite for primary school students.	2000-08-14
US	51931486	R11NPX58FUDZ0O	1890591017	812021709	The Donner Party Chronicles: A Day-by-Day Account of a Doomed Wagon Train, 1846-47	Books	5	58	58	N	N	This is the Donner Party book I've been looking for!	The full-color, glossy photographs of major landmarks and points of interest along the Emigrant Trail from Springfield, MO to Johnson's Ranch in Bear Valley are stunning.  The color photos, all taken by Marilyn  Newton, are grouped together in the beginning of the book, comprising 20  slick pages of almost 50 photos.  It's hard to believe that wagon ruts from  over 150 years ago still exist in places; happily, our continuous farming,  building and paving haven't obliterated all traces of the route that so  many people rode--and walked--in order to reach California.<br />Portraits,  maps, drawings and sketches from the period are interspersed with  sepia-toned contemporary photographs, some taken by Newton and some by  other photographers, and appear on every page of the book.  &quot;The  Donner Party Chronicles&quot; is visually rich and stimulating.  The area  around Donner Lake and the route the relief parties followed are depicted  in all seasons of the year.  Even in black-and-white, the photos of Donner  Lake and the surrounding mountains demonstrate the ruggedness of the  terrain and deeply impress upon the reader the hopelessness the members of  the Donner Party must have felt upon being snowed-in at the lake.<br />The  book reads like a journal that would have been kept by one of the emigrants  traveling with the Donner Party.  The text is reprinted from installments  journalist Frank Mullen, Jr. published in the weekly newspaper &quot;The  Reno Gazette-Journal&quot; over the course of an entire year.  The daily  routine followed, problems encountered, and decisions made by the Donner  Party are chronicled in a concise manner.  The entries are short, most  three or four paragraphs in length.<br />One very interesting feature of  &quot;The Donner Party Chronicles&quot; is the map of the Emigrant Trail  that appears on every left-hand page of the book, with the progress of the  doomed emigrants clearly marked with a red dot.  As you read along through  the book, you see on every other page exactly where the emigrants were as  the day's events took place.  I found this map extremely helpful and  fascinating.  Watching the movement of the Donner Party as they traveled on  foot at the pace of slow, plodding oxen made me better able to understand  how great an undertaking their overland journey was.  I shared this book  with my husband, my Dad and my father-in-law, and they enjoyed it almost as  much as I did!<br />This book is well worth the price, for the interesting  text as well as the terrific photos;  you can easily find what you're  looking for in the pages, as each page is dated and the day's entry fairly  short.k, you see on every other page exactly where the emigrants were as  the day's events took place.  I found this map extremely helpful and  fascinating.  Watching the movement of the Donner Party as they traveled on  foot at the pace of slow, plodding oxen made me better able to understand  how great an undertaking their overland journey was.  I shared this book  with my husband, my Dad and my father-in-law, and they enjoyed it almost as  much as I did!<br />This book is well worth the price, for the interesting  text as well as the terrific photos;  you can easily find what you're  looking for in the pages, as each page is dated and the day's entry fairly  short.	2000-05-05
US	51931486	RHD22TM1V8GHG	0962939625	60577468	The Donner Party Rescue Site: Johnson's Ranch on Bear River	Books	4	5	5	N	N	History re-written.	This volume has lots of black-and-white photos and illustrations of maps, portraits and artifacts recovered, many of which are thought to have belonged to members of the Donner Party.  &quot;THE DONNER PARTY RESCUE  SITE: Johnson's Ranch on Bear River&quot; is a very detailed account of how  the author and his son re-discovered the location of Johnson's Ranch, the  end of the line for the thousands of emigrants who traveled overland to  California from the American midwest during the mid-1800s.  It was the  first populated point in California that the pioneers would reach after  crossing two thousand miles of plains, deserts and mountains.  It was here  that the Donner Party survivors were brought following their starved,  snowbound winter in the Sierra Nevada mountains during the winter of  1846-47.<br />Over the years, old maps were misplaced and forgotten and newer  maps drew parts of the Emigrant Trail in different locations in the area of  Johnson's Ranch.  Jack and Richard Steed, through over six years of  painstaking research through historical documents, interviews with trail  experts,  and extensive field work, finally discovered the actual location  of the buildings that constituted Johnson's Ranch.<br />Also of interest,  included is a section about Camp Far West, a square-mile army post near  Johnson's Ranch set up in 1849 for quartering soldiers who were to defend  local white citizens under attack by Indians in the area (who were  protecting their own interests).  Camp Far West was so isolated and so  poorly provisioned that scurvy, illness and desertion reduced the number of  troops there so as to render the army post ineffective.  The commanding  officer, complaining that he was in command of &quot;less than a  platoon&quot; in number, left Camp Far West in 1860.<br />Steed reprints very  interesting and colorful excerpts from letters and journals written by  western emigrants of the mid-1800s.  It's well worth reading.  You'll have  to agree with the Steeds' conclusions:  history, for a time, was wrong and  has now been corrected as to the location of the famous early California  &quot;settlement&quot; called Johnson's Ranch.he Steeds' conclusions:  history, for a time, was wrong and  has now been corrected as to the location of the famous early California  &quot;settlement&quot; called Johnson's Ranch.	2000-05-02
US	51931486	R3573HSJSMZI5N	0791050874	92146152	Setting Up Your First Aquarium (Fish--Keeping & Breeding in Captivity)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Gorgeous, glossy full-color photographs.	This is a fabulous resource for the beginning aquarist, written simply and directly.  Adults will appreciate the brevity of the material and the ease with which desired information can be found as much as the young readers for whom this book is meant will. It's amazing that such a range of topics  can be so completely covered in such a short book.  From choosing an  aquarium to outfitting it properly, from selecting real and/or plastic  plants to sorting through the dizzying array of fish available, Axelrod has  ALL bases covered--thoroughly!  The brilliant, true-to-life colors in the  photographs accurately portray dozens of varieties of tropical fish that  are available.  Included are lots of pertinent details that are  characteristic of the types of fish (temperament, ease of care and  breeding, etc.--even relative costs of different breeds).  The author even  describes how the home/hobbyist aquarist can tell male fish from females!  This book has it all.<br />If you plan to set up an aquarium of your own--or  even if you already have one--Herbert Axelrod's book will help you plan  ahead and save yourself lots of time, worry, and money.  Tropical fish can  be a very time-consuming and expensive hobby, and your first step should be  reading this book in order to learn as much as you can before making a huge  investment in the wrong tank and/or fish.  The price of this book can  easily be recouped by the mistakes you'll avoid.	2000-05-02
US	51931486	R2FDGKU3XJJLJ9	0060284536	517763900	A Book of Kisses	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Which is YOUR favorite kind of kiss?	This is a really cute book, and my kids enjoyed the pictures as much as they did having me demonstrate many of the kisses on them.  Around our house, we share many kisses, and we especially enjoy the &quot;tummy kisses,&quot; which, like author Dave Ross, we also call &quot;raspberry  kisses.&quot;  These are normally dispensed with PERMISSION here, however,  since both my husband and I remember being tickled and kissed mercilessly  by our uncles when we were children.  (I was fairly traumatized by a couple  of uncles who liked to &quot;whisker&quot; my face, which is a barbaric  custom in which an older male relative rubs his three-day-old growth of  facial hair on a child's face and neck until the child bleeds--or until she  screams loudly enough that another older relative comes to her rescue!  Girls treated in this fashion often grow up to be afraid of men with beards  and/or mustaches.)<br />I liked the charming pastel drawings, the variety of  animals depicted, and the unusual type-style in which the book is set.  The  lettering is still a version of print (but not cursive), and gives older  readers a chance to practice reading a different style of type-set than  they're used to seeing in their school textbooks.  I think this is an  important consideration, since kids are expected to read and write in print  and cursive styles--and to decipher their teacher's often difficult-to-read  printing and handwriting!	2000-04-30
US	51931486	R16JCYBRQBMC9M	0399232001	245605497	Presenting Tanya, the Ugly Duckling (Picture Books)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Tanya's Metamorphosis	Satomi Ichikawa's illustrations are what I like best about &quot;Presenting Tanya the Ugly Duckling.&quot;  She uses strong but muted colors and realistic people, with very little extraneous detail in the pictures. The drawings really capture Tanya's metamorphosis from the shy,  insecure girl who is puzzled to have been chosen to dance the lead role in  &quot;The Ugly Duckling&quot; to the joyous, confident dancer she becomes  during the dress rehearsal.  In the beginning of the book, Tanya is drawn  in awkward, frightened poses, but she is able to open up and dance freely  by the end of the book.  I think the illustrator just does a very nice job  of visually presenting the central character.<br />How many times do we ask  a child to read a book and to put himself or herself into the main  character's shoes?  This book allows the young reader to really step into  Tanya's toe-shoes, the way I rememeber feeling like I was in Ellen  Tebbitts's dance class when I was in the fifth grade.  (Remember that book?  It was great!  It's a chapter-book and I'd recommend it for kids who read  on a grade-level higher than those who would find &quot;Presenting Tanya. .  .&quot; appropriate.)<br />As for the written narrative, &quot;Presenting  Tanya the Ugly Duckling&quot; is a nice change of pace for a fairy tale.  Like me, you probably remember the standard tale as always being told from  the point of view of the duckling.  In this book, a little girl is the  duckling, and it makes it even easier for a young reader to identify with  the feelings of the protagonist.  All readers will be intrigued by Gauch's  use of the French terms for the ballet steps danced by Tanya and her fellow  dancers, just as my generation was intrigued by the ballet positions  described and illustrated in &quot;Ellen Tebbitts.&quot;  Any young dancer  would enjoy this modern rendition of &quot;The Ugly Duckling.&quot;	2000-04-30
US	51931486	R1S31MLYH8D5MY	0823412318	709454035	Snowbound: The Tragic Story of the Donner Party	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A good American history book for students.	Well-illustrated with black-and-white photographs, portraits, and drawings, &quot;SNOWBOUND:  The Tragic Story of the Donner Party&quot; is a succinct, well-written summary of the misfortunes of a group of American  emigrants who were trapped in the Sierra Nevada mountains during the winter  of 1846-47.  Lavender tells the story of survival of the desperate people  straightforwardly, neither glossing over the grim facts nor candy-coating  the truth.  With no extraneous material, large type and big margins allow  the reader to buzz quickly through the 87-page book.  Although the book is  directed at students ages 9-12, I feel it would hold the interest of an  even wider audience; high school students reading below grade-level would  find this book an easy read, without being made to feel spoon-fed.  The  nonfiction account follows the Donner Party from their departure from  Springfield, Illinois through to the end, when the last survivors finally  reached the promised land of California.  Biographical information  regarding many of the survivors recounts their assimilation into California  society.  Lavender treats the discrepant viewpoints of the many Donner  Party historians of the last century and a half fairly and in a  matter-of-fact way.  Includes a bibliography and an index.	2000-04-22
US	51931486	R81DBWKD0JVV1	068815932X	565802561	The Ugly Duckling (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Beautiful illustrations and a well-told story:  buy this!	Like most parents, you want your child's home library to include standard fairy tales.  Jerry Pinkney's &quot;The Ugly Duckling&quot; combines incredibly detailed ilustrations with a nice balance of both strong and  muted colors AND a wonderful re-telling of the generations-old standard  tale.  In this verson, however, people are woven into the story in a way  that I haven't seen before, and I like that very much.  It's easy to see  why this book was selected as a 1999 Caldecott Honor Book.  Pinkney's a  very gifted illustrator, and he really has to be given credit for his  well-constructed text as well as the gorgeous pictures.  Authors who write  and then illustrate their own stories are somewhat rare, and as an adult, I  appreciate the incredible mix of talent and hard work this represents.  My  children, of course, just love the pictures; they'll grow to appreciate  good writing as they get older.	2000-04-21
US	51931486	R1UIY94ZQBFD0C	1888444258	491845510	The Lion Who Wanted to Love	Books	3	3	19	N	N	A vegetarian lion?  Come on!	You know, I really want to be able to endorse this book.  The illustrations, quite colorful and appealing, though infantile and lacking detail, are pretty cute--especially the young cheetah in distress--and they  carry the book, coupled with the fact that the story is told in rhyme.  You  just can't beat a rhyming book with good meter!  I just draw the line where  a seemingly possible story strays into the realm of impossibility.  What  does a young vegetarian lion eat?  This point is not addressed.  I  categorize this book with ones like &quot;The Rainbow Fish&quot;, in which  authors seem to try to brainwash our children into accepting some sort of  utopian ideal of living in harmony with the universe.  The problem with  this idea is that it simply does not work in practice.  It's a nice goal  toward which to strive, but the nasty reality is that in today's world,  it's the fastest, strongest, and meanest lion who gets to be king of the  pride.	2000-04-21
US	51931486	R2DCM5U7J6JZL9	0874212081	617251581	Unfortunate Emigrants	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Johnson's done the difficult work for us!  Thanks.	Editor Kristen Johnson has done an excellent job of pulling together many difficult-to-obtain source documents that are pertinent to the Donner Party.  She enhances the reader's understanding by presenting detailed  biographical information about each document's author, combined with  copious footnotes, all of which are extremely helpful and unbiased.  The  tremendous amount of research required to synthesize the material is quite  apparent.  Johnson's volume of material helps to counterbalance some of the  older, more biased works of Donner literature.  This is a  &quot;must-read&quot; for anyone interested in American history, the great  western overland migration, or simply in tales of survival.  Congratulations to Ms. Johnson upon compiling an interesting, eclectic mix  of old and rare--some almost forgotten-documents which really improve our  understanding of conflicting viewpoints of one of America's greatest  mysteries.  (This text refers to the hardbound edition of the book, c.  1996.)	2000-04-21
US	51931486	R1QI8Z57RG2HHP	1575054108	611704286	Little Wolf's Book of Badness	Books	2	8	20	N	N	&quot;Boo, shame.&quot;	Why do some adults who write children's books purposely misspell words throughout a story in order to try and convince the reader that the tale was actually written by a child?  Many kids actually can spell.  Why  embarrass poor spellers and reinforce bad habits?  When I was young, my  writing skills were built on a solid foundation of basic English grammar  instruction and enhanced by the many, many well-written books I read.  When  I was a kid, I never saw a book printed with deliberate  misspellings--except for my grammar textbooks:  the mistakes were in the  exercises for the student to find and correct!  Worse yet, Little Wolf  signs his letters home to his parents and younger brother  &quot;Smellybreff&quot; (please!) in many excruciatingly grammar-tortured  ways:  &quot;Yours fedduply; Yours sherlockholmesly; Yours hohummly; Yours  upsettly&quot; --ad nauseum.  This attempt at cuteness becomes a  contrivance that wears upon the reader's patience.  Little Wolf says that  camping is his &quot;worst thing.&quot;  I think he's worst at  letter-writing and spelling.  To quote Little Wolf, &quot;Boo, shame.&quot;  The resolution to the story was a long time coming, but in less than two  months' time, Little Wolf goes from a faithful son who desperately misses  his family and begs to be allowed to return home to an independently  wealthy Cunning College graduate who has to bury his exploded uncle's dead  body,  He then decides to become an entrepreneur schoolmaster himself and  invites his family to come live in his &quot;nice and smelly&quot; cellar.  What a charming young cub.  If you can ignore the crude line-drawings and  read this book aloud to your youngster, editing for violent content and  things you'd rather your kid didn't learn about yet as you go, you might  convince yourself that &quot;Little Wolf's Book of Badness&quot; is a  treatise on the positive benefits of organized scouting.  Otherwise, leave  it on the shelf.  Our little cubs stand a great chance of growing into big  Bad Wolves without an instruction manual.  Don't think I missed the point.  I read the final letter in which Little Wolf has an epiphany and realizes  that it's better to be good than to be bad.  My point is that there are  plenty of other books available that each the same lesson, but which won't  confuse coung readers with really substandard writing.nce of growing into big  Bad Wolves without an instruction manual.  Don't think I missed the point.   I read the final letter in which Little Wolf has an epiphany and realizes  that it's better to be good than to be bad.  My point is that there are  plenty of other books available that each the same lesson, but which won't  confuse coung readers with really substandard writing.	2000-04-21
US	51931486	R2DW680PT76ZXZ	044023607X	635629092	The Fourth Reich	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Are YOU prepared?	Van Kampen has woven a compelling, believable story which clearly lays out the Biblical prophecies regarding the end of the world.  Even a reader with a limited familiarity with or understanding of the Bible will find  &quot;The Fourth Reich&quot; an interesting and credible novel.  The  characters are people the reader can care about, most situations are  plausible.  A few loose threads are left hanging (Will Sonya and her  brother Yacov reunite?, Is there no chance for Bulgakov's followers who  doubt him--Anna, for example--to renounce him and be saved?, etc.) and some  things are just a bit pat towards the end of the novel, but, in all, this  is a book that you'll stay with until you've reached the end.  As busy as I  am, I read it in two days!  Regardless of your personal religious  convictions, it's worth your while to compare Van Kampen's predictions with  your own understanding of Biblical prophecy.  So much of the Book of  Revelation is difficult to understand for the average person; Van Kampen  spells things out quite clearly.  &quot;The Fourth Reich&quot; helps sort  things out.  You'll want to read and learn more!	2000-04-10
US	51931486	R1I71BX1AQYLD3	0208023682	336844356	Captured by Indians: The Life of Mary Jemison	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A wonderful selection for a school book report.	It can be such a battle to get a junior high or high school student to write a book report.  I've found that if you help the student to choose a book that is interesting enough to keep him drawn in until the end of the  story, the job is much easier.  &quot;Captured by Indians:  The Life of  Mary Jemison&quot; is a fabulous example of the many, many enjoyable--and  suitable--books that are available to the young reader.  History is full of  fascinating stories, and our own country's history provides so many stories  worth reading.  That Mary Jemison was a real person and not just a  character created by a writer makes this book an even easier  &quot;sell&quot; to the student.  It should be emphasized that Karen  Zeinert's edition of the transcript of Mary Jemison's life story, which she  told in 1823, has many excellent features.  For example, Zeinert includes  an extremely helpful timeline incorporating the major events of Mary's life  with major historical events (dates treaties were signed, etc.), which  enhances the reader's understanding of the time period.  Also included are  hand-drawn maps, a few photographs, several (period) hand-drawn portraits  of people who are part of the story.  A very helpful glossary of terms  appears at the end of the book--another item most useful to today's young  readers.  Note to teachers and/or parents:  Zeinert has carefully  edited out the sensationalism that was very much a part of the original  work, and she points out in the &quot;Background&quot; section that author  James Seaver was hired in 1823 to interview Mary Jemison in order to  produce a &quot;captive story&quot;--a popular genre of the period--and  that captive stories were often used as propaganda against the Native  Americans, who were normally portrayed as savages in such works.  Finally, a personal note:  I found it utterly fascinating that in 1823 Mary  Jemison made a most prophetic statement:  &quot;He (her son John) fell  victim to  the use of liquor, a poison that will soon exterminate the  Indian tribes in this part of the country.&quot;  Although she couldn't  read or write, Mary Jemison was an intelligent, strong, and very brave  woman.  Her story is one that is worth reading.  She shouldn't be an  obscure figure in American history.  She should be more widely known.  Recommend this book to the young people around you!f liquor, a poison that will soon exterminate the  Indian tribes in this part of the country.&quot;  Although she couldn't  read or write, Mary Jemison was an intelligent, strong, and very brave  woman.  Her story is one that is worth reading.  She shouldn't be an  obscure figure in American history.  She should be more widely known.   Recommend this book to the young people around you!	2000-04-10
US	51931486	R38S5XYFS4YCDI	0151879923	898305019	Tamsen: A Novel of the Tragic Journey of the Donner Party and the Heroism of an Extaordinary Woman	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Another viewpoint on the Donner Party saga.	Although David Galloway has written a very detailed andinteresting novel told from the point of view of perhaps the mostimportant woman of the doomed Donner Party, I have some serious problems with his book.  First, though some historians believe that Tamsen Donner kept a journal of her own during her family's 1846-47 trek from Springfield, Illinois to Alder/Prosser Creek and Truckee (now called Donner) Lake in the Sierra Nevada mountains, no such journal has ever been found.  The fictional journal that Galloway &quot;re-creates&quot; is quite rich and fascinating--until the families reached the spot in the Sierras where they were forced to winter-over without adequate food supplies.  Instead of coming up with more convincing vignettes of his own, Galloway lifts entire scenes from the only known and published diary of a Donner-Camp survivor, that of Patrick Breen (for example, the Donner children toasting bits of the fire-rug and eating them).  Second, I found the sexual scenes unnecessary, unsubstantiated, and improbable.  There has been no suggestion that I have found in other Donner Party literature that Lewis Keseberg raped Tamsen Donner before he allegedly murdered her. Finally, Galloway's &quot;Tamsen&quot; contains the ONLY references to homosexual relations among teamsters during the great migration to the American West that I have found in Donner literature.  Where did Galloway find his information or inspiration for this plot-twist? Criticism aside, &quot;Tamsen&quot; paints a glowing portrait of Tamsen Donner, an incredibly strong and brave woman dedicated to her husband and children.  On the basis of Galloway's book, she should be beatified!  &quot;Tamsen&quot; stays very true to the chronology of events and gives the reader a real sense of the desperation of the people trapped in the mountains and of the heroic efforts of the men who came to their rescue.  The strongest point of David Galloway's novel is that he provides what I have found to be the most plausible explanation I've read yet of how Lewis Keseberg may have disposed of Tamsen Donner's body.  Overall, &quot;Tamsen&quot; is an interesting and entertaining book, but it should be read by Donner Party aficianados who already have a basic understanding of the events that happened so that they can recognize the points at which Galloway's account varies from the actual events.plausible explanation I've read yet of how Lewis Keseberg may have disposed of Tamsen Donner's body.  Overall, &quot;Tamsen&quot; is an interesting and entertaining book, but it should be read by Donner Party aficianados who already have a basic understanding of the events that happened so that they can recognize the points at which Galloway's account varies from the actual events.	2000-04-10
US	51931486	R1K6DRM3RUS7AE	1565658809	114009388	The Vegan Sourcebook	Books	4	25	26	N	N	A volume that will make you re-think your menu.	&quot;The Vegan Sourcebook&quot; is a thoroughly-researched and well-presented argument for eliminating meat, dairy, and eggs from the human diet and a persuasive appeal for each of us to try to live  on this  earth while making as little impact on other species and the environment as  we can.  In addition to the inventive, varied, and healthful recipes, the  author details many inhumane processes which result in the foods and  consumer products--many of them seemingly animal-free--which most of us  bring home every time we go shopping.  What surprised me most upon reading  this book and discussing it with my 81-year-old grandmother is the amount  of information my Grams  already knew about our food supply.  Why is it  that, at nearly forty years of age, much of what I found shocking in this  book was news to me?  Apparently, the agri-businesses (and others) have  been fairly successful in keeping much of what they do to produce our food  a deep, dark secret.  Vegan or vegetarian or meat-eater, all readers will  find much of value within the covers of this book.	2000-04-04
US	51931486	RLK5H1FGX6Q21	0399145052	176308808	Bagombo Snuff Box: Uncollected Short Fiction	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Even in three generations, things don't change that much.	I enjoyed this collection of Vonnegut's earlier short stories for many reasons:  I liked that the same character (high school band instructor George Hemholtz) is the protagonist in three of the stories; several  stories had surprise endings; Vonnegut used no profanity whatsoever--and  didn't need to in order to be effective and entertaining; and reading  Vonnegut's early fiction helps me get a clearer understanding of what life  in America was like for my parents' and grandparents' generations.  Finally, this group of tales demonstrates the author's keen insight into  the lives and minds of women.  Although Kurt Vonnegut was born several  years after my own grandparents, I myself can identify with several of the  female characters in the stories in this collection. I, too, worry that I  am becoming a bored--and boring--housewife, &quot;wasting&quot; my  potential.	2000-03-30
US	51931486	R34Q8K85K8I409	0208024042	582589428	Across the Plains in the Donner Party	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A good starting-place for middle school history students	Although this book contributes little or no previously-unknown information regarding the westward journey and arduous winter in the mountains endured  by the members of the Donner Party, it does present the facts in a  straightforward and easily-read manner and provides a basic chronology of  events.  Young readers with a desire to learn about one of American  history's most incredible stories of courage and strength will find this a  quick read--and, hopefully, will be encouraged to read more about the  Donner Party and American historical events.  The language found in the  source documents, regrettably, has been edited severely--to the point of  grammatical accuracy!  (I enjoy seeing for myself the horrendous spelling  and grammatical mistakes which lend an air of authenticity to many of the  other studies of the Donner Party.) The reader should understand that James  Reed is shown in a more favorable light than he is in many other Donner  books, no doubt, due to the fact that his daughter was the author.  Several  interesting photographs and illustrations are included, which enhance the  appeal of the book.  I would certainly recommend &quot;Across the  Plains...&quot; to middle school students.  I hope it would motivate them  to pursue the topic further; the story of the Donner Party is one of the  most fascinating in our country's history.	2000-03-29
