US	51930221	R1BBXZU91EDO4X	0345456696	996145031	Tatooine Ghost (Star Wars)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Atypical book with good themes, though not always exciting	Tatooine Ghost is not the most exciting, read-it-from-cover-to-cover-without-stopping Star Wars book. At times it seems a bit long and a bit quiet. There are no Jedi, no lightsabers, no spectacular space battles. Denning rarely jumps between different casts of characters acting out different parts of a larger story. In short, this book is not typical. Its uniqueness, however, is commendable. In Tatooine Ghost, Denning makes an effective link between the prequels and the Classic Trilogy characters with which we are more familiar. He uses material derived from Episodes I and II to explore Leia's reconciliation with her ancestry, and, in the process, to develop Han's and Leia's marriage. In the process, he drops hints about Grand Admiral Thrawn and revisits characters from Anakin Skywalker's past, such as his mother and childhood friends. In revisiting these characters, he enhances our understanding of Anakin and makes that character and his history significantly more satisfying than they were in the prequel movies themselves. Yet what I enjoyed the most about this book was the atmosphere of Tatooine. Denning does an excellent job describing the landscapes and varying his settings, creating a world with real geography that feels as immediate and as backwater as it did in the Classic Trilogy. By combining this setting with a simple, straightforward plot focused on the relationships between characters and their struggle to build and cope with their identities, Denning truly recreates the feel of the Trilogy. This may be the first Star Wars book I have ever read that actually felt like the original movies (not that feeling different from them is bad)--and it achieved this feel without repeating plot devices or lines from them. In sum, then, Tatooine Ghost is a well-written character piece with a superb setting. I recommend it--if you don't mind a book that is less action-packed and convoluted than other Star Wars novels.<br />&quot;A Forest Apart,&quot; the story releasedas an e-book when the hardcover version of Tatooine Ghost came out, is included at the end of the paperback. It provides a rare glimpse into Chewbacca's personal and family life, and, like Tatooine Ghost, is focused on personal relationships--paticularly the parents' responsibility to act as proper role-models for their child. &quot;A Forest Apart&quot; is short and well-told, with good characterization and a well-used extended metaphor of Kashyyyk's forests for Coruscant's skyscrapers. The plot is simple but not simplistic. &quot;A Forest Apart&quot; enhances the themes and mood of Tatooine Ghost by handling the same themes in such a different setting and with such a different kind of family. It is an effective and enjoyable coda to the novel.	2004-04-01
US	51930221	R28JSIUNUZYPBU	0345428501	87344379	Destiny's Way (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 14)	Books	3	0	2	N	Y	Boring, but with some bright spots	This book was decent.  I'd go as far as to say it had some brilliant passages--Vergere's description of her time on Zonama Sekot was fantastic (the writing style sounded just like Traitor, which I loved), and the entire concept of Alpha Red was both intriguing and terrifying.  Unfortunately, I found the book incredibly boring.  The writing seemed very rote, the characters were underdeveloped, and the majority of the book was so lacking in dramatic action that I'm not entirely sure what the plot was.  Destiny's Way wasn't sickeningly badly written, and the characters weren't horribly mangled--both things I've seen happen before in NJO.  Instead, this installment was totally forgettable.	2004-02-07
US	51930221	R3TGXPJ4FWUCNY	0345459164	639235887	Star Wars: Survivor's Quest	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Zahn is Back &amp; Zahn is Still God	Zahn is back!  I had to go to 4 bookstores on February 3rd to find a copy of this book, and the reward more than justified the efforts.  Zahn writes with his usual clarity and intelligence, creating a book that is saturated with action, mystery, political intrigue, and the eerie elements of a ghost story.  Zahn is the master of writing Jedi who are extraordinarily powerful, but whose superhuman abilities have limits and therefore do not overshadow their more impressive minds and characters.  This also makes him one of the rare Star Wars writers who can create non-Force-sensitive characters who are as worthwhile and interesting as his Jedi.  This sense of balance is also apparent in Zahn's handling of the usually very black-and-white politics of the Star Wars universe--that is to say, as fans already know from his earlier books, his Imperials can be at least as fascinating and sympathetic as the more stock Rebels.  In this book, through the intelligent, young Commander Chak Fel (son of the Baron Soontir Fel and older brother to Jaina Solo's later love interest, Jag Fel) and an elite cadre of stormtroopers who are interesting and individualized, Zahn gives his readers a sympathetic view of what the Empire could have been in the hands of a man like Thrawn.  But Survivor's Quest isn't just a smart, multifaceted book--it's also a complete page-turner.  I read the last 300 pages without any breaks longer than about two minutes, and that's not my normal style.  The last book I can remember being this impossible to put down was Matthew Stover's Shatterpoint.  In summary, Zahn is back, and Zahn is still God.  Survivor's Quest was well worth the large, hardcover price tag, and I'll gladly pay that much again when the sequel comes out.  Because there's going to be a sequel, right Lucas Books?	2004-02-07
US	51930221	RYJ2IOLMRW40Q	0345428684	499156103	Rebel Stand: Enemy Lines 2 (Star wars: The New Jedi Order)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Funny and well-written again, but with a couple problems	Like Rebel Dream, this book is well-written, fun, and full of humor. Allston brings back the excitment of the Rebellion Era, with Han and Leia, Luke and Mara, and a series of well-known pilots acting out clever and covert schemes once again. In that sense, the book is a breath of fresh air from the very different kind of plot and writing that typifies the NJO series. At the same time, Rebel Stand works well within NJO, taking us to Coruscant after its fall and bringing resolution to the arc involving Viqi Shesh.<br />While I enjoyed reading this book, there were two parts that bothered me. First, the \\"dark Jedi\\" aspect of the Coruscant plot is overwraught and probably out of place. It seemed very weird in the middle of an NJO book. Second, and more important, there is one really abhorrent chapter that deals with Jaina's relationships with Jag and Kyp. I thought Allston had left behind Jaina the self-absorbed twerp, Jag the empty tool, and Kyp the pathetic follower. Oh well.<br />Despite these two issues, the book really was good, and I think the vast majority of Star Wars fans will be able to find something to their liking in its pages.	2003-08-29
US	51930221	R3NDOFZ2K8VUHY	0824820169	142173156	Mapping the Godzone: A Primer on New Zealand Literature and Culture (Latitude 20 Books (Paperback))	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Useful introduction	The premise of this book is fantastic: it aims to be an introduction to New Zealand culture geared toward the educated but non-specialist American. By explaining dominant trends in NZ literature, describing some of this literature's historical context, and relating it to American culture, William Schafer outlines some answers to the questions of what it means to live in New Zealand, and how that nation has structured its unique identity. On a more basic level, this book gives its readers a sense of what NZ lit and film is available, and thus provides a spring board for an independent exploration of NZ culture. Schafer's quotes and discussion of the fiction of Witi Imihaera (author of the novel The Whale Rider, upon which the 2003 film is based), for instance, were particularly attractive to me and, as a result, I have since read several of his works. Mapping the Godzone opened a new world to me, and I look forward to continuing to explore NZ culture under its guidance.<BR>While the book's aims are laudable, its execution is not quite as impressive. Schafer tries to avoid the jargon and heavily theoretical analysis of contemporary literary criticism, but at times he slips up and his prose drags. At other times, he is somewhat too summary in his discussions--particularly when he relies on series of lengthy quotes by other critics. The quotes from literary sources should be well appreciated, since they provide a window into the style of many authors; the quotes from scholars simply seem to point to laziness on the part of the author. Could he not sum up the material himself? Besides these (not too grave) issues of style, the content of the book could have been improved. Clearly Schafer (an English professor) was mostly interested in the literary achievements of New Zealand. However, he does intend his book to be a primer on culture as well, and to achieve this end he would have done well to include more of popular and visual culture in hi<BR>s book. He does write a short section on film, but it consists mostly of a list of movies that the reader might find interesting.<BR>Despite its flaws and shortcomings, Mapping the Godzone is a unique resource for the American reader curious about New Zealand, and it seems to be an excellent overview of that country's literature. I am glad to have found it.	2003-08-29
US	51930221	R1ILHW4ESFKAP4	0345428668	9443085	Rebel Dream: Enemy Lines I (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order #11)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Funny and well-written	I found this to be a real relief following the illogical and obnoxious orgy that was Dark Journey. Rebel Dream may start slowly in comparison to the bawdy outrageousness of Elaine Cunningham's book, but once Allston gets into the material he clearly loves the most--military intelligence and the interactions between pilots in their squadrons--he strikes a rhythm and the story reads quickly. It is full of humor, which somehow manages to remain appropriate alongside the various, quite serious, story lines--the death of the New Republic, Jaina's (this time believable) grappling with the loss of her brothers and friends, etc. The formation of a new rebellion really restored some of the vitality of earlier Star Wars books and of the original trilogy itself. Similarly, by avoiding writing over-the-top main characters, Allston revived my interest in Jaina, Jag, and Kyp. I haven't really liked Jaina since the Dark Tide duology, and it was almost surprising to find myself sympath<BR>izing with her again. Jag always seemed incredibly boring to me, but in this book he became more fleshed-out and his brilliance as a pilot and tactician became evident. And Kyp has finally started to seem like a reasonable guy, with something more to him than anger.<BR>Ultimately, this wasn't the most exciting NJO book, but it was really well-written and much more enjoyable than most. I think I can safely blame the only parts of the book that annoyed me on Elaine Cunningham's botched job, because I only ever rolled my eyes at the book early on, when people showed a lot of faith in Jaina, who was a totally untrustworthy person in Dark Journey (to say the least). Had Cunningham done a half-way decent job with her conclusion--Jaina's \\"redemption\\"--these episodes would have probably seemed a lot more reasonable. It's worth noting that all the \\"themes\\" Dark Journey attempts to treat but ends up horribly mangling or misrepresenting, Aaron Allston pulls off convincingly and compellingly in Rebel Dream--most remarkably, political subversion, grief, and romance.	2003-08-29
US	51930221	R2X08NT2T9ED5P	0152050167	991934744	The Whale Rider	Books	5	7	8	N	N	a modern legend	It feels a little silly to review a work of high literature, but I think I have a few helpful things to say about Witi Ihimaera's The Whale Rider. This novella is endearingly written. Ihimaera punctuates his style of warm simplicity with more complicated, though still patently modern, language that both embues the story with a sense of sacredness appropriate to a modern legend, and creates a picture of the contemporary Maori narrator as someone bridging the gap between past tradition and the change of the modern world. The latter point is perhaps the book's most crucial theme, and Ihimaera explores it through his main plot (concerning Kahu and her tribe) and through the \\"digressions\\" into the life of his narrator, Rawiri, which take the reader to Australia and New Guinea. Ultimately, the picture of Maori in the contemporary world that Ihimaera conveys is an uplifiting one, focusing on the ability of the people and (more importantly) their culture to perservere in this world. The Whale Rider is a modern myth, a sort of fairy story that confronts relevant issues of identity and culture for today's Maori.	2003-08-29
US	51930221	R15V1FFLS4GBOC	034542865X	707181604	Traitor (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 13)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Please, Lucasfilm, keep hiring Stover!	This is my favorite book of the NJO series, no question. Stover is a master of building up believable and deep characters, and of making both these characters and the reader grow and learn. Traitor is thought-provoking and fun to read. It's a hard act to follow. I have only two regrets about it: 1) that it wasn't several times longer, and 2) that the fascinating character that Stover has made of Jacen Solo will fade back to a sort of dull normalcy in the succeeding books.<BR>Stover's got to be the best author penning Star Wars books. Please, Lucasfilm, keep hiring him!	2003-08-26
US	51930221	RAF2MHWRN9LHX	0521096626	398237561	Art and Experience in Classical Greece	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	Authoritative introduction	J.J. Pollitt is one of the most respected scholars of ancient Greek art, and with good reason.  His analyses are clear, well-written, cautious, and highly logical.  Art and Experience is a classic (!) work of Pollitt's early career.  It is an authoritative and engaging introduction to the history of art in ancient Greece, focusing on the Classical period (fifth and fourth centuries BC).  The book assumes a general familiarity with some ancient history, philosophy, and literature, so it might be most useful for students or enthusiasts of classical culture who feel that their understanding of classical art is lacking.  Nonetheless, the text is introductory enough that even a reader with no background in classics could find the book interesting and informative.<BR>What makes this book a particularly valuable introduction to Greek art is that it aims to explain the motives and ideas behind the art rather than to provide the reader with a list of works and names of styles.  Pollitt answers the question of why Classical Greek art looks like it does, and he thus gives his reader a framework for understanding individual works.<BR>I can level only two criticisms at the book, and they are both relatively picky.  The first is that, because of the brevity of the book and its intended non-specialist audience, some of Pollitt's conclusions seem to me like logical leaps, and some of his arguments seem too summary to be fully convincing.  I would have preferred a more comprehensive treatment with fuller explanations--something along the lines of Paul Zanker's Power of Images in the Age of Augustus.  As an introduction, however, the extent of the arguments in Art and Experience is sufficient.  My second criticism is that Pollitt at times reveals more personal value judgements regarding the art of ancient Greece than I thought were necessary or appropriate.  This is no doubt in part the product of the period in which the book was written, when value judgement still played some role in the teaching of art history (it has since largely been abandoned).  It also may relate to the intended audience: I am sure that some readers will be interested to hear what traditional considerations have made art historians consider certain works to be &quot;great.&quot;  At the same time, readers should be wary of Pollitt's negative statements about some of the art (e.g., Hellenistic sculptures of children).  The value of such art has recently been reevaluated by many art historians, including Pollitt himself, and the works do not deserve the dismissive tone apparent in Art and Experience.<BR>On a final note, readers should keep in mind that this book is intended to cover only a brief (though significant) period in the history of ancient Greek art.  Because of its scope, this book does not provide a &quot;grand tour&quot; of all famous Greek art--works like the Nike (or Winged Victory) of Samothrace are not covered.  While Art and Experience is a great way to begin an exploration of the art and culture of ancient Greece, for a full picture one must consult additional sources.  I highly recommend following Art and Experience with Pollitt's masterful (and more scholarly, though still quite accessible) Art in the Hellenistic Age.	2003-08-15
US	51930221	R3BDEOKY4CW0DF	0345455738	448911863	Shatterpoint (Star Wars: Clone Wars Novel)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Reevaluate everything	This novel blew me away. I was reluctant to read it at first, since I usually rely on my pre-existing emotional attachment to the classic or NJO-era characters to buoy my interest in Star Wars books. I'm not a big fan of the prequels, and I had always thought of Mace Windu as basically a cameo role for Samuel L. Jackson in the movies.<br />After only the first chapter of Shatterpoint, I found myself revising a lot of my opinions and preconceptions--about the book, the main character, the Jedi, the Force, and the Star Wars universe as a whole. Stover's stream-of-consciousness writing style grabbed my attention right away and pulled me emotionally into the plot. I often forgot that I was even reading--the narrative was so frank and immediate that I felt like I was there, in the story. The style alone could have kept me turning pages chapter after chapter. The plot and the details through which it plays out, however, are at least as engrossing and fresh. This is an unflinching tale of war that has more in common with the hellishness of Heart of Darkness (Joseph Conrad) or The Things They Carried (Tim O'Brien) than with other Star Wars books. Through its gruesome reality and constant sense of nervous anticipation, the novel examines the behavior of people under extreme stress and pressure. In the process, it forces a reevaluation of the psychology and purpose of the Jedi. The implications of this reevaluation beautifully weave together the events of the prequels, classic trilogy, and New Jedi Order.<br />In the end, this is the most satisfying Star Wars book I have yet read. I would recommend it to fans of any eraof Star Wars, and equally to those who read the books for the action, the characters, or to better understand the Force and/or the morality of being a Jedi. Personally, I'll be looking for more Matthew Stover books.	2003-08-14
US	51930221	R2R4Q61RSAY92S	0345455738	448911863	Shatterpoint (Star Wars: Clone Wars Novel)	Books	5	54	59	N	Y	Reevaluate everything	This novel blew me away. I was reluctant to read it at first, since I usually rely on my pre-existing emotional attachment to the classic or NJO-era characters to buoy my interest in Star Wars books. I'm not a big fan of the prequels, and I had always thought of Mace Windu as basically a cameo role for Samuel L. Jackson in the movies.<br />After only the first chapter of Shatterpoint, I found myself revising a lot of my opinions and preconceptions--about the book, the main character, the Jedi, the Force, and the Star Wars universe as a whole. Stover's stream-of-consciousness writing style grabbed my attention right away and pulled me emotionally into the plot. I often forgot that I was even reading--the narrative was so frank and immediate that I felt like I was there, in the story. The style alone could have kept me turning pages chapter after chapter. The plot and the details through which it plays out, however, are at least as engrossing and fresh. This is an unflinching tale of war that has more in common with the hellishness of Heart of Darkness (Joseph Conrad) or The Things They Carried (Tim O'Brien) than with other Star Wars books. Through its gruesome reality and constant sense of nervous anticipation, the novel examines the behavior of people under extreme stress and pressure. In the process, it forces a reevaluation of the psychology and purpose of the Jedi. The implications of this reevaluation beautifully weave together the events of the prequels, classic trilogy, and New Jedi Order.<br />In the end, this is the most satisfying Star Wars book I have yet read. I would recommend it to fans of any eraof Star Wars, and equally to those who read the books for the action, the characters, or to better understand the Force and/or the morality of being a Jedi. Personally, I'll be looking for more Matthew Stover books.	2003-08-14
US	51930221	R31QUMA3KHT8SS	0441005764	368646193	Mossflower (Prequel to Redwall)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Expands the world of Redwall	Mossflower is as cute as the original Redwall novel, but with a slightly more complicated plot and style of writing. The sense of history that Mossflower contributes to the world of Redwall Abbey is delightful--here is the story of what is essentially the legendary past, yet it is told through the same sort of vivid and personal style as the first Redwall book. In addition to providing a sense of history, Mossflower also substantially expands the geography of Brian Jacques' fantasy universe. The characters' quest leads them through an amazing range of environments in which they encounter many new (and throughly charming or at least amusing) animal civilizations. All the while, the reader's knowledge of several more familiar animal cultures is expanded. This book is expecially informative regarding otters, badgers, and squirrels.<BR>In short, Mossflower is an adorable and fun read that expands the reader's knowledge of the Redwall world. My only reservation is that it is so similar in plot to the first book that it lacks some of that book's novelty and excitement.	2003-08-14
US	51930221	RDWZHLUE2O4P8	0441005764	368646193	Mossflower (Prequel to Redwall)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Expands the world of Redwall	Mossflower is as cute as the original Redwall novel, but with a slightly more complicated plot and style of writing. The sense of history that Mossflower contributes to the world of Redwall Abbey is delightful--here is the story of what is essentially the legendary past, yet it is told through the same sort of vivid and personal style as the first Redwall book. In addition to providing a sense of history, Mossflower also substantially expands the geography of Brian Jacques' fantasy universe. The characters' quest leads them through an amazing range of environments in which they encounter many new (and throughly charming or at least amusing) animal civilizations. All the while, the reader's knowledge of several more familiar animal cultures is expanded. This book is expecially informative regarding otters, badgers, and squirrels.<BR>In short, Mossflower is an adorable and fun read that expands the reader's knowledge of the Redwall world. My only reservation is that it is so similar in plot to the first book that it lacks some of that book's novelty and excitement.	2003-08-14
US	51930221	R2OLWID04L0NR0	0142000159	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	4	10	11	N	N	An easy read and a good intro to quattrocento Florence	King's book is a good read and is fairly informative for the non-specialist reader. It is short and engagingly written with a number of humorous or amusing passages. Despite its title, I found the book to be more successful at painting a lively and believable picture of early Renaissance Florence than at explaining the engineering of the dome. King's technical explanations are at times not as clear as they could be; likewise, sections of the book are somewhat lacking in a sense of purpose. King often digresses; in fact, whole chapters seem like digressions from his topic. To the author's credit, the digressions are some of the most engaging portions of the text, and often do enrich the reader's image of quattrocento Florence. Despite its flaws, I enjoyed the book. I have studied Brunelleschi's architecture in some depth in graduate school, but this book provided my first window into the context for and in which that architecture was built. I appreciate the more human point of view I now have of the project of building the cathedral's dome, and would recommend the book to anyone with a budding interest in the early Renaissance. I am not convinced that more experienced Renaissance scholars or enthusiasts would gain as much from the book; in fact, the often anecdotal nature of the narrative and King's ultimate heroization of Brunelleschi will probably come across as distasteful or annoying to some.	2003-07-30
US	51930221	R1V3NAG0TWQXQY	0441005489	294268861	Redwall: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Cutest book ever!	This is the cutest book ever! The characters and the world they live in are rich with charming detail. The writing is upbeat and eminently readable. Short chapters make it easy to quickly progress through the book. The plot is intriguing and neither grandiose nor trivial. Brian Jacques has done a great job of writing about anthropomorphic animals without creating a childish story. He doesn't shelter his readers--bad things happen to the characters, and not only to the villains. He also achieves the proper balance between cuteness and gravity with the animals, which are adorable without being saccharine, and anthropomorphic without seeming too much like people. By populating his story with mice, rats, badgers, and otters, he creates a fantasy/historical setting that is believable and detailed while remaining slightly alien and therefore alluring. I loved this book both because the animals were so endearing and because it was one of the most enjoyable works of fantasy I have ever encountered. And yes, after finishing I immediately ran out to get the second book in the series (so far it seems to be even better than the first one.)<br />I highly recommend Redwall to both children and adults who love animals and fantasy.	2003-07-27
US	51930221	R2UB7AC442IKD	0345428676	87344379	Star by Star (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 9)	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	A powerful book likely to be either loved or hated	This is one of the most powerful books in the New Jedi Order series, not least of all because of the major twists it introduces to the series' plot arc. As a result, readers are sure to be torn as to whether to love or hate it. Star by Star does start slowly, and some apparent errors occur in the opening chapters (Jaina's status with Rogue Squadron is altered from the last book, for example). The scenes with the adult characters are often slow throughout the book, and in some places Denning insufficiently explains events, leaving the reader wondering how the story got from point A to point B. These are my only trifles with Denning's writing. His character development is good and he manages to breathe life into a number of the rather flat Jedi from Kevin J. Anderson's young readers' series. He also creates an exciting new group of characters--the Barabels, whom we meet in the e-book Recovery (included in the paperback). In addition, Denning writes excellent action scenes. Every chapter about the mission of the young Jedi is a page-turner. This is a blessing in a 600+ page book. On the whole, I think Denning is one of the most skilled writers in the Star Wars franchise.<br />In part because Denning writes so well, some of the plot is hard to swallow--bad things happen, and Denning emotionally involves the reader in them. Despite the book being a page-turner, I had to read it slowly because I found that the only way for me to deal with how upsetting the events in it were was to take them in small doses. At one point I even wished I could un-read what I had read because it was so depressing. Star Wars fans who prefer to see the franchise's characters cleverly work their way out of tough situations will really dislike this book. However, I appreciated both the realism of what happened here, and Denning's ability to involve me in it. I have read too many Star Wars books that have made me roll my eyes at supposedly significant events and that have left me emotionally indifferent, so I give kudos to Denning for doing just the opposite. Star by Star is a difficult read, but it's worth the trouble.	2003-07-27
US	51930221	R8FZ4EXXQY8AZ	0345428692	213123263	Dark Journey (Star Wars: New Jedi Order)	Books	1	28	33	N	Y	Sassy Journey	Enter woman author #2 in the New Jedi Order series, Elaine Cunningham. Unlike Kathy Tyers, who essentially handles a typical sort of Star Wars story involving all the major characters, Cunningham focuses on Jaina in order to create what she must have envisioned as a women's Star Wars book, by a woman and about a woman. Romance and powerful, consuming emotions take center stage, with Jaina as the sassy vixen around whom it all revolves.<br />I am a woman, and I am offended by this insult to the maturity and intelligence of my gender.<br />Where to begin? Cunningham's writing is atrocious. She has neither a sense of continuity nor of how characters should be expected to react emotionally to events. Han and Leia have just lost one, maybe two children, so they joke around and flirt. Then, later, we get a few sentences about how profound their sadness is. How trite, Ms. Cunningham. It's good to know that the Solos were officially upset while fooling around on the Falcon. Similarly, every male in the galaxy seems (completely irrationally) to have the hots for Jaina Solo, who, sassy vixen that she is, is not adverse to indulging their fantasies. The book opens with Star Wars Spice Jaina sitting on Ganner's lap and making lewd comments about it. In the middle, she manipulates the usually practical Kyp Durron with her womanly wiles and unbelievable Force powers. The book closes with a gushingly sentimental Kyp &quot;saving&quot; his soul mate Jaina, who's taken her sassiness a little too far. This is as over-the-top as Moulin Rouge, but with only a fraction of the emotional depth.<br />Cunningham's treatment of the Force is as simplistic and flawed as her treatment of human emotions. In a series that focuses on questioning the nature of the Force, this novel is completely out of place. The message here seems to be that you can be totally evil (Cunningham might say &quot;sassy&quot;) without going over to the dark side. Also, it seems more okay for Jaina to be evil (than it is for other people). Cunningham rewrites history, saying that Kyp used the Force to convince Jaina to help him in Greg Keyes' last book (Rebirth; and I thought Jedi mind tricks only worked on the weak-minded). This is bad of Kyp. Jaina uses such mind tricks frequently, and this is something that &quot;not even Jacen would question.&quot;<br />These problems are only the tip of the iceberg. The book is filled with emotional non-sequitors, massive errors in continuity, and bawdy exploitation of the concept of &quot;woman.&quot; So is there anything to like? Well...by far the best thing about the book is that Cunningham doesn't get to write Jacen or Anakin (and mess them up). Second to that? The book is short and not quite as pathetically childish as a Kevin J. Anderson book. Also, I guess the concept that Jaina is an awful and disconnected person makes sense...the authors of the series have been building that from the beginning. Her reaction to her brothers' situations should probably be reprehensible. However, the way Cunningham exploits this opportunity to write Jaina as a bad girl is really uncalled for. She warps other characters almost beyond repair in the process (especially Kyp) and seems to revel in Jaina's badness rather than condemning it. What's worst is that she passes off the evil that Jaina does as &quot;girl power.&quot; Maybe this speaks to teen angst or something (I might have liked the book more back when I was an angsty teen), but only in a destructive way.<br />Conclusion: readers who can't resist the guilty pleasures of bad romances and bawdy women, rejoice; readers who want a reasonable treatment of the aftermath of the devastation in Star by Star, you're out of luck--your best bet is to read this with a sense of humor.	2003-07-27
US	51930221	R2EKO9TUGQGXT1	0345446100	108368651	2: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, No. 8)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A very fun read	I wasn't a big fan of the first book in this duology, Conquest, so I didn't have high hopes for Rebirth. Luckily, Greg Keyes surprised me. Rebirth is a very readable book--the combination of short chapters, interesting plotlines, and well-written characters kept me turning the pages. I was very impressed with the plot involving Jaina and Kyp; Keyes intelligently develops a rather convoluted interaction between the two characters over the course of the entire book and does a great job of giving Kyp a distinctive voice. Anakin and Tahiri are quite dynamic, and they've both become a lot more interesting since the last book. I was also pleased to see Jacen and Corran written with sensitivity. All in all, the way Keyes handles the characters--making each distinctive, with his or her own internal psychology--is the greatest strength of Rebirth.<BR>The book does have some weaknesses. Though it's fun to read, the writing isn't as polished as that of authors like Zahn or Troy Denning. That's only a minor complaint though; I don't expect all Star Wars authors to be up to Zahn's level, and compared to many of the other NJO books, this one is beautifully written. My more major complaint is that Keyes seems to have run out of energy at the end. Two of his otherwise logical and careful plots just sort of dissolve. He more or less completely drops the Jacen-Han-Leia storyline, never providing closure for it. And the Mara-Luke story truly fizzles, ending with a &quot;We don't know how everything got fixed, but isn't it truly beautiful?&quot; which was a little too sugary and insubstantive for me. If Keyes had put a little more work into the last fifty or sixty pages of his book, I would have considered giving the book one more star.	2003-05-22
US	51930221	R37WD2501MEEGW	0140244646	647029153	Hatchepsut: The Female Pharaoh	Books	5	27	30	N	Y	Good read and fairly balanced	Joyce Tyldesley's Hatchepsut: The Female Pharaoh is more than a good introduction to the title figure from ancient Egyptian history. The book is, in a way, Hatshepsut's biography; however it is quite honest about the amount of evidence that survives today--very little--and therefore does not pretend that some sort of definitive and personal narrative of the Pharaoh's life is possible. Instead of giving a year-by-year account of Hatshepsut and her life, the book presents and examines its subject in terms of historiography. Tyldesley discusses previous theories and extant evidence in a frank manner while offering her own interpretations, which tend to legitimize Hatshepsut's reign (and are sometimes quite compelling). Because there is so little evidence and the subject of Hatshepsut, a woman who ruled Egypt as a Pharaoh, is so easily entangled is people's own ideas about gender and power, all these interpretations--including Tydesley's--involve a degree of bias. This was particularly the case when scholars argued from silence, constructing their own ideas about Hatshepsut based on the logic of contemporary gender roles but in the absence of tangible facts. To address such interpretations by previous scholars, Tyldesley has had to put forth arguments in this same vacuum. She recognizes that interpretation without corroborating evidence is fundamentally problematic, and, when it comes to such difficult topics, she makes a laudable effort to be honest about how just what is and is not firm fact, and to give previous scholars their due credit. Overall, then, the book does an excellent job of problematizing the study of Hatshepsut--of showing what we know, what we assume (and why), and what is still wholly mystery. Those who read this book even slightly critically should come away with a decently balanced view of Hatshepsut.<br />At the same time as she displays a scholar's caution in weighing evidence and interpretation, Tyldesley writes a very readable book. This is nota novel or highly-animated biography, but it does hold the reader's attention with lucid writing and a good structure. Even its historiographic analyses should be interesting to the non-specialist--they are not dry and technical, instead having an element of the excitement of a mystery--Tyldesley traces clues and leads us toward some possible answers without closing the topic. The book should be useful and interesting for students of the field as well as for the general public--I read the book for a graduate paper, but I intend to send it to a friend to read for fun!	2003-04-07
US	51930221	R1HRESS4QN8IQR	0694525499	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	One of the best books I've ever read	I find it a lot harder to review a book I love than to review one that I think could be improved, and I really loved Neil Gaiman's American Gods. The book is a fantastic piece of literature, an insightful study of America and American culture, a provocative exploration of religion and belief, and an exposition of masterful storytelling.<br />Prior to American Gods, I had read most of Gaiman's Sandman series of graphic novels. Fans of that series will find that Gaiman's talent for weaving dark, profound, and involving plots transfers beautifully to the format of a novel. At the same time, the book does not read like a script for a comic; Gaiman is at least as much of a master of the purely written medium as he is of the illustrated one.<br />Another group of readers to whom I would recommend American Gods are fans of the work of Douglas Adams. Readers of Adams' Long, Dark Tea-Time of the Soul will find a fair amount of the conceptual grounding for American Gods to be familiar territory. This is not to say that Gaiman book is a redux of the Tea-Time. The two books share the idea of ancient gods living in a modern world, but treat it in very different (complementary) ways. I highly recommend reading both books, each with the other in mind.<br />To conclude I would like to talk specifically about the audiobook. I &quot;experienced&quot; American Gods by listening to an installment of the unabridged audiobook every night for about five months. I listen to a lot of audiobooks and was enormously impressed with the narration of this one. George Guidall is a phenomenal performer and his carefully nuanced reading of the book added greatly to my enjoyment of the plot. Toward the end of the book, I considered buying the paperback and finishing it on my own as that would have been quicker, but it wasn't hard to decide to leave the reading to Guidall, whose voice had become part of the book's identity for me. I recommend the book on its own, but I recommend the audiobook even more strongly!e strongly!	2003-04-01
US	51930221	RBV99471046T3	006097625X	706328760	Understanding Comics: The Invisible Art	Books	5	4	4	N	N	More people should read this!	Scott McCloud does a fantastic job explaining the history, potential, and inner workings of comics as a medium. I was especially impressed with his concise descriptions of visual theory and its particular applications to comics. Occasionally I felt that McCloud's treatment of a topic could have been more fleshed-out (the chapter on color, for example, or his concluding idea of comics as a particularly good form of communication) or that he made some unnecessary generalizations (his definition of art was a bit trite and even misleading). On the whole, though, McCloud's ideas are sophisticated and he is able to communicate them with surprising eloquence to both the art historian and the general public. In fact, though I am an art historian, I learned a good deal from this book.<br />McCloud's decision to use the comic format to present his ideas is ingenious, and I doubt that prose alone would have been able to deliver his messages with such clarity. The one drawback to the format is that I fear it will only appeal to those who already value comics, and that as a result those who most need to hear what McCloud has to say never will!	2003-03-24
US	51930221	RQ2LZP8QAGVRC	0691040435	287002284	Bearers of Meaning: The Classical Orders in Antiquity, the Middle Ages, and the Renaissance	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Original but often questionable	Note: This book spans the 5th century BC to the 16th century AD. I read the portion from the 5th to the 15th centuries as that was all that was applicable to my research.<br />Onians takes on an impressive task in this book: tracing the use and meaning of the Classical orders from their still poorly understood and greatly mythologized origins, through a period in which tradition would claim that they disappeared, and into the age of their supposed revival. The topic alone is innovative, and many of Onians' interpretations are correspondingly iconoclastic. Unfortunately, these interpretations, though intriguing, often lack substantiating evidence and/or are very broad generalizations based on archetypal pairs of opposites such as male/female or structure/ornament. In his chapters regarding the ancient world, Onians tends to take a rather Vitruvian view of architecture, classifying columns as male or female despite Vitruvius post-dating much of the architecture Onians discusses. It is notable that in his discussion of the Gothic Onians addresses the continued used of ancient orders; however, he remains disappointingly blind to the possibility that this implies a continued interest in the ancient world. As for the Renaissance, I was pleased to see Onians arguing that the early stages of this movement involved not a revival of the antique but a remodeling of the medieval in ancient terms in order to rival the ancient world. Unfortunately, Onians does not present convincing evidence for this point of view--in particular, he cannot overcome the traditional argument that many of the medieval Tuscan forms found in quattrocento architecture are present as a result of the misdating of such monuments as the Baptistery of Florence to ancient Roman times. Perhaps the fatal flaw of the book, however, is Onians' relentless need to find a single theme for each period he examines. Thus, architecture in the ancient world revolved around the principles of masculine and feminine; the medieval focus was on spiritual and symbolic use of architecture in order to reconcile pagan forms with Christianity; and the quattrocento was about &quot;cleaning up&quot; after the middle ages. It is sometimes painful to watch Onians as he tries his best to fit exceptions to his rules, often falling back on single words in theoretical texts in order to do so. I would have preferred a bit more practicality and give in the interpretive framework of this book.<br />Ultimately, this book is ambitious and thought-provoking at best, but problematic and sometimes misleading at worst. I would recommend it to those who are curious about the subject and want to hear some unusual theories. I would not recommend it as the cornerstone for anyone's research or as a &quot;good introduction.&quot;	2003-03-18
US	51930221	RCLBFIA4TR8UJ	0345428641	501288398	Edge of Victory 1:  Conquest (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Can't decide between silly melodrama and quality story	The seventh book of the New Jedi Order series alternates between melodramatic and illogical over-simplification, and a genuine effort at developing dynamic and believable characters and at giving the Yuuzhan Vong a realistic culture. The quality of the story and writing rises and falls in three distinct waves. These correspond closely to the three sections into which Keyes divides his book. The first third or so of Conquest is simplistic and childish. I had the strong sense that Keyes here relied heavily on Kevin J. Anderson's Young Jedi Knights series. The characters are very cardboard, the dialogue is trite, and the events are implausible. The next third of the book is much better, and it is here that most of the solid character development, and development of the Yuuzhan Vong culture, takes place. Once Anakin is alone in the jungle and Keyes begins to deal with characters of his own invention (or at least not derived from Kevin J.'s series), his style improves greatly. Dialogue and events are more compelling; this is fresh material instead of a rehash of Anderson's children's books. Unfortunately, the last third of the book becomes melodramatic and illogical again. Anakin has a moment of epiphany in which he \\"realizes\\" that only people who are Force-sensitive can judge right and wrong; after this, he turns into some kind of ridiculous superhero who realizes Master Ikrit's truest dream by uniting with Tahiri to rip trees out of the ground and throw them at the Yuuzhan Vong. As for Tahiri, she all but reverts from a total brainwashing in a matter of seconds. Meanwhile, Anakin's siblings appear unexplained and out of nowhere to save the day, and are then portrayed as children. Jaina, a 17 year old military officer focused on discipline, talks with her mouth full while Jacen, who in the last book committed to fighting the Yuuzhan Vong, declares that Anakin should illogically work for peace. The resolution seems almost a mockery of Keyes' achievements in the central chapters of Conquest. His ultimate ignorance of the characterization that took place in the previous books is a shortcoming that is all too common in Star Wars books, and no doubt much of the blame should be placed on the series editors. Until they learn to do their job, I'll read something else.	2003-03-10
US	51930221	R1WDGNUDJDSC06	0801497868	783978249	Religion in Ancient Egypt: Gods, Myths, and Personal Practice	Books	4	45	46	N	N	A good resource; some parts better than others	Prof. Shafer of Fordham University put this book together in order to fill the need for an English-language survey of ancient Egyptian religion. The result is a relatively short introduction to the subject from three points of view, each addressed by a different author. John Baines writes about the gods, Leonard Lesko about myths, and David Sliverman about religious practice. The idea and organization of the book is commendable; however, I felt that stronger editing could have made the three portions of the book more cohesive and compatible in quality.<br />There was too much overlap between Baines' and Lesko's sections, and Lesko's chapter seemed to be aimed at a more specialized audience than were the other chapters. I felt that Baines dwelled too much on political history and took the focus off the topic at hand. His article would have benefitted from further subdivision; as it was, the overly long sections lacked clear direction. Baines handles concepts of divinity quite well, but I think he could have provided a better overview of the Egyptian pantheon. On the whole I would give his article a tentative 4 stars.<br />Lesko's rather short chapter also placed too much focus on political history, and this was doubly frustrating since he didn't say anything different from Baines. His discussion of myths seemed to lack organization and was befuddling for the newcomer to the field. The chapter mostly consists of lengthy and inadequately explained or connected quotations from Egyptian texts. These texts are interesting sounding but cryptic, and Lesko does not provide enough of an overview for one to understand either what they are saying or why he is quoting them. His article has two chief sections: one on cosmogonies, which is very long and opaque, and a much shorter and somewhat clearer section on cosmology. Overall, this article deserves a tentative 3 stars from a newcomer; someone with more specialized knowledge might find it more useful, but I am not sure.<br />Silverman's chapter was by far the most accessible and informative. Frequent divisions in the text underscored its points while providing strong organization and direction. Silverman's explanations started from basic concepts and worked up to address difficulties in modern methods of study in his field. His chapter came across as an interesting and informative social history of Egypt with particular emphasis on the origins of its structure and morality, both of which derive from religion. This article was engaging and clear, and earns an enthusiastic 5 stars from me.<br />On the whole, then, some parts of this book were more readable and useful than others. However, it seems to be the most scholarly and trustworthy introduction to the topic. I would not recommend it as pleasure reading, but if you need to know something about the subject it is a good resource.	2003-02-19
US	51930221	R2YF817IOF3L9B	0300064675	189681286	Architecture in Italy, 1400-1500 (The Yale University Press Pelican History of Art)	Books	3	20	22	N	N	Only useful for the specialist.	This book is considered to be &quot;the great survey&quot; of early Renaissance architecture, and is, in fact, the only one that has ever been written covering the subject (except for a 1998 book in Italian that is really more a collection of articles). I find this lack of surveys rather surprising as Renaissance architecture is one of the most well-loved subjects in art history, and I would think that specialists, students, and laymen would demand a simple World of Art kind of treatment of the topic. The Pelican series generally does not provide this type of clear, thesis-driven introductory text, and Heydenreich's book is no exception. It is a collection of facts--a catalog of &quot;this building was built then and it shows influence from that and the architect was so-and-so&quot;--with minimal interpretation and explanation (we generally don't even learn what details indicate that &quot;this&quot; building was influenced by &quot;that&quot; one). A great deal of familiarity with the material is required on the part of the reader, so the text entirely failed my mission of gaining a broad understanding of quattrocento architecture. If you are well-versed in the topic and are looking for a reference, this book may be helpful; if you're looking for elucidation, it almost surely won't be. The most Heydenreich seems to be able to say about the style of buildings or the reason they were compelling to their contemporaries is that they were &quot;perfect&quot; and &quot;beautiful,&quot; terms I have heard altogether too frequently (and too frequently unexplained) from Renaissance art historians. I regret that I have no better book to recommend in Heydenreich's place.<br />On a somewhat different note, the binding of the paperback Pelican books is shoddy at best. By the time I had finished this book, which I did read cover to cover despite really disliking it (it's only 151 pages anyway), all of its pages were falling out!	2003-02-10
US	51930221	R7MZ9O9QHFQBN	0192802933	949700877	The Oxford History of Ancient Egypt (Oxford Histories)	Books	5	87	91	N	N	If you read one book about Ancient Egypt, read this one.	As a quote expresses on the back of this book, &quot;If you only want to read one book on Egypt, then read this one.&quot; Ian Shaw's history of ancient Egypt is a beautifully constructed volume that is at once densely packed with information and high in its level of scholarship, and aesthetically appealing and fairly accessible. The book surveys Egyptian history from 700,000 years before the present through the Roman period (ending in AD 395). This is an enormous task, and one might assume that the book could only be very summary and superficial in its treatment of each period. However, every member of Shaw's team of scholars manages to describe his or her period of expertise in a good amount of detail, discussing not only historical events but also art, religion, economics, and material culture. The book thus very successfully follows current trends in history of approaching periods from myriad points of view. Equally importantly, each author discusses the current problems and debates in the scholarship of his or her field. The multi-author approach allows the reader insight into the nature of research for each stage of Egyptian history: the reader gets a sense of the way in which research is conducted, the modes of analysis applied, and the style and terms of discussion. This book serves as an introduction to Egyptian historiography and to the nature of the study of ancient history almost as much as it serves as an introduction to ancient Egypt itself. Thus, The Oxford History of Ancient Egypt manages a high level of scholarship while remaining a useful survey of a huge span of time and culture. Readers who are unfamiliar with archaeological language might find some of the articles in this volume slightly more difficult than others, but there is a decent glossary in the back, and it is more the scholarly tone than the actual material that needs getting used to. Any reader who is genuinely interested in the topic will be able to read through this entire book without much trouble. My only reservation is this: the highly dense nature of the text means that it is occasionally a bit of a slow read. I read the book for a graduate class with Egyptologist David O'Connor (excavator of Abydos; you will see him mentioned several times in the book) and it took me about a week of constant focus. On the whole, though, this is a remarkable book and probably the best existing introduction to ancient Egypt. With a publication date of 2002, it is also the most up-to-date.	2003-02-03
US	51930221	R1CGF6TKFX254U	0140169822	831234077	Leonardo da Vinci: Revised Edition	Books	5	54	54	N	N	The best introduction to Leonardo &amp; a compelling read	Kenneth Clark's book is probably the best available introduction to Leonardo da Vinci. It is both a good biography and an insightful analysis of Leonardo's art and artistic career. The text is appropriate for both laymen and students of art history. Clark's writing is concise and extremely engaging (to the point where I would recommend reading this book for fun), but it is also intelligent and very informative, with a clear thesis that ties the vast body of matieral covered together into an easily comprehensible package. This book is slightly out of date now, but Martin Kemp's introduction and revision help to ammend for that. I particularly recommend this most recent edition as it is well-illustrated.	2003-01-26
US	51930221	R1BC5TR89ZAT2N	0345428587	706445147	Balance Point (Star Wars, The New Jedi Order #6)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A return to good writing in NJO	Balance Point is a welcome return to high-quality, thoughtful writing in the New Jedi Order series. Kathy Tyers achieves what James Luceno does not: she tightly focuses her plot around the Skywalker-Solo family group, handling their internal and interpersonal turmoil in a manner that shows this family's struggles to be representative of the macrocosmic struggles of the galaxy. She could have added another chapter at the end or a few sentences or paragraphs here and there making the connection between the Skywalker-Solos' tale and the rest of the galaxy more explicit--or at least to enhance the sense of an over-arching plot through the NJO series, but there is a certain artfulness in the way Tyers leaves it to the reader to draw out these sorts of connections.<br />Balance Point's success is largely the result of Tyers following a diverse enough cast of characters that each individual can fill in an important niche within the plot, and of her attention to detail in her writing. By following Jedi of a variety of persuasions, refugees and those assisting them, and active pilots and warriors, Tyers avoids having to describe important events without being able to follow them from the point of view of one or more main characters--the mistake that killed Luceno's battle scenes. It similarly allows her to avoid inserting &quot;filler&quot; characters who must show up to play a role in the plot, but never receive any sort of characterization. In fact, attention to details--particularly characterization--is one of Tyers' greatest strengths in this book. She strikes a comfortable balance between Michael Stackpole's internal-dialogue drenched mode of characterization and Timothy Zahn's more subtle indication of personality through nuanced action and speech. This combination of techniques works particularly well on Mara Jade Skywalker, who is written perhaps better than she's been since Zahn last dealt with her. Though I think that Stackpole's approach is preferable for Jacen because he is a character with a lot of internal dialogue, Tyers does well with him, too. She focuses on his sensitivity as the driving force behind his character, offering some hint at the sources of his sudden anti-action stance, though perhaps not enough. Jacen is certainly meant to be a bit frustrating in this book, and that he is, but I think the frustration may be more at a gap in the series' writing than at his character's actions. Perhaps I would have liked to see a Stackpole book between Jedi Eclipse and Balance Point (or just a better author for the Agents of Chaos duology) that gave an even more psychological account of Jacen's progress. This is not Tyers' fault, though, and she deserves to be commended for her Jacen, who is once again the interesting and dynamic young man of the first three NJO books.<br />Tyers' attention to detail also shines through in her handling of the Yuuzhan Vong and in her succinct but evocative descriptive language. The Yuuzhan Vong are once again the severe and distant religious fanatics of the earlier books, and Tyers even manages to explain the inappropriate flippancy Luceno ascribed to Nom Anor, as well as his correct pronunciation of &quot;Jedi.&quot; She avoids Luceno's tendency towards melodrama and exaggeration. This is particularly apparent in her descriptive language. She ditches the overwrought vocabulary of Agents of Chaos in favor of clarity. The result is settings like the Coruscant tapcaf where Anakin and Mara go after a potential Yuuzhan Vong agent: it is vivid and memorable, but its description doesn't impede the flow of the writing, and the book continues apace. This simplification of language makes Balance Point more engaging than the James Luceno books. In Agents of Chaos, I always had the impression that Luceno was writing lots of filler-words for the sake of making his story long enough to be a book. Most of what he wrote didn't seem to matter, and I got bored with it. Not so with Balance Point, where clarity and straight-forwardness make the book seem cohesive and interesting.<br />Balance Point seamlessly combines the strengths of Stackpole and Zahn to create a brilliant new chapter in NJO, returning the series to the high level of quality at which it began.	2003-01-21
US	51930221	RRFR3TBH30DY6	0345428595	398079632	Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 5)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Decent plot, lousy writing.	Jedi Eclipse merits a similar review to Hero's Trial, the first book in the Agents of Chaos dulology. Something close to a third of each book comes off particularly well--in Hero's Trial, it's the first third that is good; in Jedi Eclipse, it's the last third. Both books deserve praise for their interest in reviving characters, places, and events found in previous Star Wars books. Luceno introduces important characters in a suitable fashion, and the plot he details achieves key goals in the NJO progression. These are the shared aspects of the books that deserve praise.<br />Unfortunately, the writing of both books is sub-par. Luceno has several debilitating tendencies. He selects one or two characters to fully characterize, while he leaves all others flat and virtually devoid of personality. He does not even stereotype these more \\"minor\\" characters (I place minor in quotation marks because often these are characters of vast importance in the other NJO books), prefering to entirely or almost entirely ignore their previous characterization in favor of using them as a bland background cast that can supply extra lines without interfering with his real players. Luceno also tends not to show much intelligence in the scenarios he cooks up: characters make stupid suggestions that seem below their intelligence, they argue poorly, and events tend to unfold with little complexity or subtlety. I can understand characters making mistakes, but that is not what this is about: Luceno's situations simply seem...lame, for lack of a better word. The author is the one who hasn't thought things out well enough, not the characters. Finally, there's Luceno's tendency to let his vocabulary run away with him. Thankfully, his word selection is a little less exotic and his descriptions are less florid in this second book. One gets the impression that his editors told him to lay off a bit. Nonetheless, he seems in Jedi Eclipse to really misuse a lot of his vocabulary, or at least to radicallystretch the meanings of some words.<br />All this leaves Jedi Eclipse a mediocre book with a decent plot but poor writing. The NJO story continues apace, particularly in the last few chapters where Luceno sets up some promising political (and otherwise) intrigue that I am sure is part of the grand plan and not some invention of his own. I would go as far as to say that these final chapters are actually exciting and even redeemed the book to a certain degree because of their implications for the future. But in the end, the muddled first 2/3+ of the book serverely marrs the whole. The plot is not as focused on Han as was that of Hero's Trial, and Luceno has a hard time jumping between characters and maintaing a truly coherent plot. It's there, but it deserves more emphasis than it gets. The story also suffers from this shift of focus from Han because Han is one of the only characters Luceno seems to put much effort into characterizing, and without him at the center, we wind up following people who should be more compelling but aren't. The Jedi receive greater treatment in this episode (as its title implies), but Luceno has a hard time rendering them. Wurth Skidder is written passably, but, given his Jedi identity and centrality to the plot, Luceno really ought to give the reader more insight than he does into Wurth's internal workings. Anakin and Jacen suffer more. Luceno clearly picked up on their conflict in Vector Prime and sought to expand on it, but we are left with a hollow shell of what Salvatore wrote. This is mostly because Jacen is drastically simplified from the dynamic and thoughtful young man who Salvatore and Stackpole wrote to a kid whose sole attribute is his unflinching obsession with inaction. I understand that for the uber-plot it is important that Jacen become paralyzed like this, but he should be paralyzed by a progression of intelligent (if misled) thought. I sorely missed hearing Jacen's internal monologue. His reflective nature added much to the reader's experience and understanding of the Force. In fact, it is such thoughtfulness and care to detail that I found most lacking in this book. Other than the case of Jacen, it bothered me the most where the Yuuzhan Vong themselves were concerned. In a book where we become more intimately acquainted with the extremely important yammosk, I was disappointed to see many of the Yuuzhan Vong's alien affectations disappear: their extreme reverence for protocol, their use of the term Jeedai for \\"Jedi,\\" their utter seriousness, etc. In short, I feel that Luceno dealt with good ideas, but was frequently sloppy, much to the reader's disadvantage. Han's struggle with Chewbacca's death, the deterioration of the Organa-Solo marriage, Jacen's slip into inaction, the plight of refugees, the deepening of the rift between Kyp and Luke--these are all crucial events that deserve far better treatment than they received in this book.	2003-01-17
US	51930221	R3PVT4HJXG6IS	0345428560	820833256	Dark Tide II: Ruin (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Even better than Onslaught	The same strong writing and characterization found in Onslaught characterizes Ruin, but Ruin winds up being an even stronger book. First, the changes that begin in characters in Onslaught come to fruition in Ruin, so that Stackpole's talent to construct an obnoxious and even upsetting character only to transform him into a truly good person shines through. It is wonderfully reaffirming to see these sorts of transformations, especially because they are often denyed in franchise fiction. In this respect, Ganner Rhysode is the most impressive character in the series. But at the same time as he is redeemed, Stackpole evenhandedly shows one of his (if not our) old favorites fall from grace, almost without realizing it. Finally, Jacen Solo remains the analytical lens that forces the reader to think about everything in the book, but his thoughtful personality is thankfully not static, either. In this book, he makes important decisions that indicate a progression in his thought process and, hence, a dynamic character.<br />The second reason why Ruin is an even stronger book than Onslaught is that its conclusion has powerful fallout. Immensely important things happen that will have an impact on the topography of the galaxy, the future of the characters, the role of the Jedi, and the politicians' understanding of the war. Crucially, it is not a happy ending--in some ways, even less so than the ending of Vector Prime--and this reinforces the differences between NJO and previous Star Wars books. After Ruin, readers will be in for the long haul, not simply picking up random books in the series to read at their leisure.	2003-01-17
US	51930221	R20RZRJ3N3YKUM	0345428455	87344379	Vector Prime (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good plot & characterization; sometimes boring and annoying	The story is good, the characterization is decent, but the writing is sometimes slow and sometimes annoying. As far as plot goes, because this is the first book of a spectacular new series, it can hardly be described as anything short of groundbreaking. I have read many Star Wars novels and never has anything like what happens in Vector Prime happened in any of them. This is a great relief, since Star Wars books often seem to repeat themselves (how many times can the Solo children really get kidnapped or threatened with kidnap?!). It's invigorating to read something so fresh and new. This is good, non-formulaic sci-fi.<br />The chararacters are written pretty well. They are consistent and show some depth. On the whole, I would compare Salvatore's scheme of building up characters through consistent behavior and speech patterns with little recourse to omnicience that reveals inner thoughts to Timothy Zahn's writing. I think Salvatore does a particularly good job of showing us Solo children who are a little more grown up than we've seen them in the past, and of elaborating on Kyp Durron, who has likewise grown up. I hope to see more of this Kyp in the future, because he will make a great foil to Luke Skywalker.<br />The book is not without flaws. The plot is exciting because it is new, but sometimes Salvatore really drags it out and it gets a bit boring. Also, he has a hard time expressing feelings of affection or nostalgia without getting too cutsie or annoying. This shows up a lot in the women--Mara going on about wanting a baby doesn't sound like Mara at all (I'm sure Zahn could make her want a child without compromising her character), and Leia similarly comes across as too weak. But where it is maybe the most obnoxious is in Salvatore's need to use some epithet like \\"dear wife\\" or \\"precious wife\\" every time he talks about Mara. Okay, she's sick and Luke loves her and is worried. But really...there are other ways to express it.<br />In sum, then, this is a pretty good book. It has a few quirks that some editing could have fixed, but they're no big deal. It's not the best in the NJO series, but it's also far from the worst. Vector Prime is definitely worth a read, though I should add that the very momentous event that takes place at the end has offended a lot of people, perhaps in part because if it was going to happen, it deserved to be in a better book by a more trusted Star Wars author like Zahn.	2003-01-17
US	51930221	R24WG8WV7N8TM5	0345428544	573865480	Dark Tide I: Onslaught (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Really gets the series off the ground	R.A. Salvatore's Vector Prime may have been the first book in the NJO series, but it is Stackpole's duology that really gets it off the ground. Stackpole masterfully expands on and fleshes out the various intrigues, characters, and plots introduced in Vector Prime while weaving a fresh series of events that, while they conclude appropriately at the end of the book, lead beautifully into the next one and thus justify the duology. I understand that Stackpole originally wrote a trilogy but was forced to cut an entire book at the last minute. This is a pity, because I certainly could have dealt with a lot more of what I found in the Dark Tide books.<br />Onslaught is a profoundly thoughtful book. The characters are written with intelligence and compassion so that everyone comes off as being dynamic, realistic, and interesting. Readers should relish Stackpole's careful treatment of Jacen Solo, Ganner Rhysode, and Shedao Shai, because this type of characterization disappears for several books following the Dark Tide duology. I particularly appreciated the way the author paired some characters to play off one another--Anakin and Mara, Ganner and Corran--so that they were forced to grow. And though this book diffuses its focus over a wide range of Star Wars characters--from Jedi to politicians to pilots--Jacen Solo is ultimately the star. His constant questioning of the Force and the events that surround him, coupled with his desire to act according to reason and logic despite his natural impulsiveness, make him the interpretive lens through which the reader understands much of what happens in the book, and we are much richer for it. Without Jacen the story would still be a great tale of action and heroism, the reader would not be drawn so deeply into the universe because he would not be forced to think--to really, really think--about what was happening. Moreover, perhaps the only Jedi who can really &quot;think outside of the box,&quot; Jacen epitomizes the &quot;New&quot;in New Jedi Order. The simplest way to describe both Jacen's character and Stackpole's elegance as a writer is to say that in this series Jacen is, in many ways, just like Ender Wiggin of the classic and high-literature book Ender's Game by Orson Scott Card.	2003-01-17
US	51930221	R3GFNN265IKVHK	0345428609	902573050	Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 4)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A mixed bag.	Hero's Trial is a mixed bag. Some parts of the book are quite enjoyable and well-done; others fall flat. On the whole, this is a lackluster book coming from a rather strong series. It simply fails to live up to the standard of excellence that Michael Stackpole set with Books II and III, and it is not quite as interesting or well-written as Book I, which is itself a problematic read but does decently with characterization and plot.<br />I rather liked the first third of Hero's Trial--Chewbacca's memorial service is rather well done and there is some meaningful Han/Leia interaction--but the book pretty much falls apart after that. First of all, Luceno cannot write a space battle. He spends several pages on each of the few major battles that take place, but instead of relating details of strategy and the progress of the battle, he fills the space with meaningless, if florid, descriptions: \\"Asteroidlike coralskippers, varying in size, shape, and color, advanced in an unstoppable cloud, forging through the intense hail and swarming into the midst of the starfighter groups. Well-maintained formations broke apart as crafts peeled away to all sides, barrel- and snap-rolling into furious engagements with their quarries. In a bloodbath of swirling combat, coralskipper preyed on starfighter and starfighter on coralskipper\\" (180). This is all very pretty, though rather silly for the excess of adjectives, but it paints nothing more than a general tableau of \\"space battle.\\" Part of the problem is that we don't know anyone in any of the battles, so Luceno has no obvious character(s) to follow--a problem that stems from his book having such a narrow focus (it deals more or less exclusively with Han). Luceno tries to fix the impersonal nature of the fighting in a later battle by tracking one X-wing, but the pilot is no one we've ever heard of before, and we never hear of him again--not to mention that Luceno renders rather little of the pilot's thought process and actions. In a bookabout a war, this failure to describe or engage with military combat is rather disappointing--especially because this book follows on the heels of Michael Stackpole's duology, and if ever there was a master of battle-description, it was Stackpole.<br />Aside from the trouble with writing combat, Luceno falls into a few other traps. Around the middle of the book, he makes a typical Star Wars novel mistake by constantly quoting the movies. Han Solo is a quarter of a century older than he was in the films. You'd think he'd have expanded his vocabulary a little in that time. Also, in the second half of the book Luceno's writing shows signs of influence from Kevin J. Anderson, author of the most abominable Star Wars books ever written, the Jedi Academy Trilogy. The events are melodramatic, the characters act stupidly, and the dialogue is like slap-stick comedy. Particularly annoying is a scene at the start of ch. 20 in which the Jedi hold a council that reeks of Kevin J: the characters act with uncharacteristic idiocy, deciding that something obviously suspicious is really okay and that the best way to deal with it anyway is to be insanely optimistic just because \\"we're all together!\\" What really gets me is that Wurth Skidder, undeniably the least wise and intelligent of the Jedi (i'm not kidding--check his stats in the NJO Sourcebook if you don't believe me), is the only one who says anything rational or intelligent at the meeting. Anyway, Luceno draws the scene to a close by refering to events directly out of the Jedi Academy Trilogy, confirming the source of his Jedi's behavior.<br />Finally, Luceno's language lacks clarity. At times this makes the plot rather confusing. There are things he just fails to explain adequately--fine points of the bo'tous toxin, details of one character's death, etc. At other times, he trips on his overly-developed vocabularly. He uses (and sometimes abuses) far too many SAT words, which create clutter and just make his writing sound silly.<br />Don't get me wrong, though. The book isn't all bad. I really appreciate Luceno's insistance on re-using characters from past Star Wars novels--it lends credence to the fact that the books really tell one continuous, canonical story. Sometimes he overdoes it, writing entire chapters that talk about what happened in previous books, but it is good to see that not all characters in this universe show up once and then evaporate. Luceno also writes several passages of inspired characterization and inner monologue. In particular, I think he does rather well with Threepio, giving the reader an internal view of the droid that is rare in the books, and treating him with the appropriate mix of levity and seriousness. Luceno also does some interesting and appropriate things with Han's character and with Han's marriage to Leia, though I wonder if the credit for this belongs with the committee that designed the plot for the entire series. Similarly, he introduces Vergere, who will later become enormously important, and he builds her up as a convincingly ambiguous and mysterious character. Finally, I actually somewhat enjoyed Droma. His banter could be a little too much at times, but it was far more interesting than Luceno's excessively serious description. Also, Droma actually seemed to have a touch of depth to him--that is, he was a bit more interesting than a stereotype, which is more than I can say for some of the other Star Wars characters I've met.	2003-01-12
US	51930221	R1VZ1HMCCXD04P	1569714568	505711856	Star Wars - Jedi Academy: Leviathan	Books	1	6	8	N	N	As Bad As It Gets	1) This is the thinnest plot I have ever seen.  It's like they called Kevin J, said &quot;Hey, we want a comic related to the Jedi Academy, but we need the whole script in five minutes&quot; and this is what they got.  Nothing is ever explained, nothing makes sense, the characters repeat themselves constantly, and the whole point seems to be to make Dorsk 82, who never really shows up again anywhere else as far as I know, feel good about himself.  And I'm not even sure he does that!<BR>2) Luke looks like He-Man on a bad day, and I originally thought Leia was some totally new character.  Does Dorsk 82 have to be drawn *shaking* in every frame?  Why must everyone have spit lines between his teeth?  The art in this comic is rock-bottom awful.	2002-11-03
US	51930221	R3A82ZCGOC31WZ	0553297988	797236535	Jedi Search (Star Wars: The Jedi Academy Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	The worst of the trilogy.	I will make two sets of remarks.  The first regards this book specifically, and the second regards the trilogy as a whole.<BR>1)  Jedi Search is the weakest book in this trilogy.  You feel like you've seen most of it before, and that what isn't old is just plain silly or stupid.  You gain next to nothing new from it, and you wonder, \\"Why did I read this waste of time?\\"  Jedi Search is an utterly shallow book.  Way too large a portion of the dialog is taken directly from the movies, as are descriptions of how people are feeling, etc.  One is forced to wonder how mind-numbingly boring the 8 years since Return of the Jedi would have had to be for Luke to have no other points of refrence than, for instance, how he felt in the garbage compactor on the Death Star or the rancor pit at Jabba's palace.  The original episodes Kevin J comes up with are even more shallow.  It's Star Wars, right?  So there have to have alien worlds and seedy venues and such...\\"Okay,\\" thinks Kevin J, \\"I know, let's have...BLOB RACES!\\"  Yes, this is in a Star Wars book: multi-colored slime racing around obstacle courses like in a Nickelodeon show!!  This is the kind of stuff the book is chock full of: silly, depthless additions to the Star Wars universe that frankly make no sense.  At the core of Star Wars is a deep sense of culture, which in part comes from the well thought-out use of bits of our own cultural heritage; Lucas constructed the Star Wars universe as rich, elaborate tapestry of human tradition in which his audience could find deep resonance.  Perhaps Mr. Anderson thought \\"You Can't Do That on Television!\\" was deeply enough ingrained in human thought patterns to count as a part of this cultural tapestry.  Ahem.  I think he was wrong.  In short, then, this book is unimaginative and unintelligent.  The bad guys are pathetic, the good guys are like cardboard cut-outs of themselves in the movies--with no dynamism, no personality, and no likeability.  For instance: Leia's entire role consists of fretting about dividing her time between politics and her family.  Just fretting.  And the twins...they're like bad stereotypes of 2-year-olds...totally unrealistic and totally obnoxious.<BR>2) The essence of what I have to say about Jedi Search applies to the trilogy as a whole: lines taken from the movies, unoriginal and ridiculous episodes, awful treatment of the characters.  The overall plot is pretty bad, if only because it hasn't got a shred of credibility.  An Admiral losing her fleet so easily?  The existence of a weapon with the Sun Crusher's capabilities?  Kyp's use of it and the relative lack of consequences for his actions?  A 4,000 year-old ghost at \\"the school\\" holding Luke's spirit hostage?  A two-year old possessed by his uncle's spirt lightsaber-fighting a mutant dragon-thing?  It's all so poorly thought out that it's half frustrating to read, half humorous.  But the characters are the worst part.  It's not just the way Kevin J makes our favorites from the movies totally unlikable, it's also the totally lame new cast of characters he introduces: Streen, the batty old man; Tionne, the dreamy girl with a guitar; Gantoris, the grumpy dark guy...they're all charicatures of themselves, and are totally one-dimensional.  The only character with any hint of substance in this trilogy is Kyp Durron, the main contribution Kevin J makes to the Star Wars universe.  I'll preface this by saying I like Kyp, a whole lot, in fact.  He's a sympathetic character in the book (why, I will never know, seeing as he's a mass-murderer and nearly kills Luke), but mostly I like him because he's been made dynamic in the New Jedi Order.  I feel like Kevin J had a potentially good idea: a massively powerful Jedi who disagrees strongly with Luke.  This could create some interesting dialog and tension among the Jedi (as it does in NJO).  Unfortunately, KJ went and totally sensationalized this idea, making Kyp into a \\"dark\\" version of Luke and having him act in a totally incredible way that often seems inconsistent with what little character Kevin J gives him.  With all this in mind, the Jedi Academy trilogy is really only worth reading if 1) you are really, really bored, like you're stuck in a very small room for a long time or something; 2) you are a hard-core Star Wars fan and want to read everything; or 3) you care to meet Kyp Durron as he was initially conceived.  Fortunately, if you just want the basics of the plot you can read Michael A. Stackpole's infinitely better book, I, Jedi.	2002-11-03
US	51930221	R1NEQD3TKIEO6P	0553296124	81931578	Heir to the Empire (Star Wars: The Thrawn Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Star Wars Classic	Timothy Zahn writes a tight and compelling plot peopled with strong characters, and his book radiates with the feeling of the Star Wars movies without rehashing them (a trap into which too many franchise books fall).  This is a worthy continuation of the story of Luke, Han, Leia, et. al.  If you read any Star Wars novels, start here--especially because so many of the later books, when they aren't pirating lines from the movies (as though the only sentences that exist in our galaxy far, far away are &quot;I have a bad feeling about this,&quot; &quot;Do or do not, there is no try,&quot; and &quot;Never quote me the odds&quot;) are pirating and misusing plot ideas from Zahn's brilliant trilogy.  Also, by starting with Heir to the Empire, you'll properly introduce yourself to a new cast of favorite characters--Mara Jade, Talon Kaarde, etc--who Zahn so strongly characterizes that even the worst Star Wars authors can write them.  And most importantly, you won't risk growing tired of the old steadies like Luke.  Characters like him sometimes stagnate in other Star Wars books (particularly in the utterly foul Jedi Academy Trilogy, only worth reading because you meet Kyp Durron who, though horribly botched in these books, becomes rather important later on) when their authors can't impart to them the sort of dynamism and personality evident in the movies.  But in Heir to the Empire, Luke is not a cardboard recreation of his cinematic self; rather, he is full and human.  With brilliant writing and brilliant protagonists and antagonists  (I mean literally, there are some smart, quick thinking characters in this book who really make for an awesome plot), this book is a Star Wars classic.	2002-11-02
US	51930221	R16IUX9R7IJ7VJ	0520200241	909942287	Looking at Lovemaking: Constructions of Sexuality in Roman Art, 100 B.C. - A.D. 250	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Clearly Argued, Captivating Book on an Unusual Topic	Clarke's book provides very clear analysis of the purpose and nature of ancient Roman erotica.  He uses a wide range of sources--literature, instructive manuals, precedent in Greek and Roman art, setting, etc.--to back up his arguments, which he presents in a lucid style that is as pleasurable to read as it is easy to follow.  I particularly recommend the chapter on erotic art in public locations in Pompeii.	2001-01-27
US	51930221	R26IM2OYRNARCH	0812510488	745081288	The Season of Passage	Books	5	24	28	N	N	More than mere escapism--a book with real literary value	As a Yale student, I have read, analyzed, and been lectured on the best works of the western world's literary cannon.  But I've also read my share of supermarket fiction--some of which is good escapism, some of which is just awful.  I was given Season of Passage for my birthday a number of  years ago, and, expecting it to fit somehwere in the range of the  supermarket fiction books, was greatly surprised to find that it belonged  in a much higher class.  This book is a masterpiece, and I mean that in the  sense that it has true literary value.  A brilliant page-turner, it's one  of my favorite novels--along with Crime and Punishment and the Brothers  Karamazov.  The Season of Passage is a true gem for avid sci-fi fans, and  definitely worth the interest of those fed on the classics.  This is the  only Pike book I have read, and whether or not he just got lucky in writing  such a fabulous work, I do not know, but I will attest to the merits of  Season.	2000-03-24
