US	51944702	RS71ANIZ0PEVD	0865970106	76985653	Vindication of Natural Society, A (Liberty Classics Series)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Invaluable Work in the Anarchist Tradition	The redoubtable Edmund Burke is widely known as the man who layed down the philosophical foundations of modern conservatism.  Thus, it may come as a great surprise to discover that he penned what may very well be one of the earliest clear expositions of philosophical anarchism in the Western tradition.  While scholars may always dispute over the issue of whether or not the &quot;Vindication&quot; was meant as a serious work or a satire, the book's status as a landmark is incontestable.<br />In this terse tract, Burke sets out to apply the same rationalistic standards to the realm of politics that 18th century Deists like Lord Bolingbroke applied to the doctrines of revealed religion.  As Deists upheld the distinction between natural( i.e. rational) and artificial (irrational or faith-based) religion, Burke seeks to defend natural (anarchistic or voluntaristic) society against that which is dominated by the brute engine of government.  <br />Although modern conservatives may also give their full support to the idea that the unrestrained employment of reason undermines the basis of both religion and government, it is infidel anarchists who will derrive the greatest value from his insights. For those wise enough to allow the light of reason to be their guide, the &quot;Vindication&quot; serves as a powerful indictment of government and the innumerable crimes that it has perpetrated on mankind wherever it has existed.<br />If indeed the work is a satire, it would seem that it has done far more damage to Burke's cause than he would ever have imagined.  Not only did the tract serve as a great inspiration to William Godwin, the man who, in less than four decades from the time of this book's publication, authored one of the definitivie works of philosophical anarchism, but it will certainly serve the ends of anarchists for many years to come, as they continue to wage war against the religion of politics with many of the same weapons that Burke has so eloquently furnished for us.	2001-02-23
US	51944702	R2XAGMT542BDZN	1573922684	941580155	Why Atheism?	Books	5	38	43	N	N	Delightful New Work	Once again we are fortunate enough to have a new book from the formidable George H. Smith, one of the greatest free-thinkers of our day.  Both of his previous works were excellent, and &quot;Why Atheism?&quot; does not dissapoint.  Smith marshals his great learning and wit to deal with a number of important issues surrounding atheism, religious belief, history, ethics, and philosophy.  Although he is treading on largely familiar ground, there is little overlap between this effort and his earlier volumes. <br />Smith begins by discussing the credibility and methodology of atheism, and continues on to examine the relationship of belief with doubt, knowledge, and free will.  A great deal of attention is devoted to the history of ideas and those who developed them. Such thinkers as Thomas Aquinas, John Locke, Francis Bacon, Rene Descartes, Benedict Spinoza, and Arthur Schopenhauer, to name a few, are discussed at length.  In addition to a chaper paying tribute to the philosophers of the seventeenth century, two others are devoted to a fascinating survey of the roots of modern ideas of atheism and secularism. <br />Objectivists and others interested in Ayn Rand's philosophy should be particularly interesting in his discussion of Rand's theory of knowledge.  Drawing on the work of Rand's supposed &quot;successor&quot; Leonard Peikoff, Smith rejects the Objectivist theory of contextual certainty in favor of a more traditional variant  of correspondence theory.<br />While each chapter is highly stimulating and informative, I particularly enjoyed those which dealt with the lifestyle of the philosopher, the Ontological argument for God's existence, and the atheistical view of death.  The penultimate chapter as well, in which Smith discusses several &quot;irreverent&quot; aspects of the concept of God, was highly entertaining, despite, but perhaps because of, the response that it will inspire from the theistic reader.<br />The book is written in a clear, logical, and lucid prose that is no doubt a reflection of Smith's great talent for communication.  While the discussion is kept at a consistently sophisticated level, the intelligent reader should have no trouble keeping up.  All in all, &quot;Why Atheism?&quot; is a wonderful book, well worth the attention of anyone interested in the nature, history, and philosophy of nonbelief.	2000-11-24
US	51944702	R5T1HDSMGKCZ3	0865970882	812934206	Discourses Concerning Government	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Seminal Work	Despite its obscurity, this is a profound work of great historical importance to the foundations of the American Revolution as well as the  perpetual struggle for liberty and justice.  Algernon Sidney(1622-1683) was  acclaimed by friends of liberty throughout the eighteenth century for his  martyrdom in the stuggle against tyranny and arbitrary government.  On  December 7, 1683, he was executed by the Crown for the crime of high  treason.  While a conviction for this crime had long required two witnesses  to testify for a defendant's guilt, the government was only able to produce  one man, while the other witness was this very book, his great  &quot;Discourses,&quot; which were used against him because of the fact  that they expounded subversive ideas.<br />Even today, at the dawn of the 21st  century, it can quite accurately be said that his ideas are still  subversive.  Sidney, like his more famous contemporary, John Locke, was a  staunch supporter of the natural rights of the individual to life, liberty,  and estate(property).  This work in particular, like Locke's &quot;First  Treatise,&quot; was originally undertaken as a refutation of Robert  Filmer's &quot;Patriarcha,&quot; which represented perhaps the clearest  exposition of the theory of rule by &quot;Divine Right.&quot;  Sidney's  work, however, is far more than a simple refutation.  He engages in  lengthy, erudite discussions of the relationship of liberty and slavery,  liberty and power, master and slave, as well as virtue and corruption.   Moreover, he presents an especially profound and radical case for the right  to resist, oppose, reform, and even overthrow tyrannical government.  <br />Indeed, it was these extreme notions that inspired generations of  libertarian radicals throughout the English empire, but most profoundly, in  the North American colonies.  As the great  historian Caroline Robbins made  clear, Sidney's &quot;Discourses&quot; was a veritable &quot;textbook of  revolution&quot; for the colonists in America.  Along with Locke's  &quot;Two Treatises&quot; and Trenchard &amp; Gordon's &quot;Cato's  Letters,&quot; this volume served as pillars for the ideological foundation  for the American Revolution, as well as the subsequent establishment of the  American Republic.<br />However, despite the work's great insight and  historical importance, the modern reader will certainly have a time of it  when attempting to read through Sidney's lengthy and esoteric biblical  references and allusions, and not to mention his in depth analysis of many  other arcane topics.  Thus, while this work is a rich resource on its own,  I would highly recommend that  any interested reader also pick up a copy of  Alan Craig Houston's excellent study &quot;Algernon Sidney and the  Republican Heritage in England and America.&quot;  Houston's work helps to  illuminate aspects of Sidney's thought that the average reader may have  misunderstood or even overlooked altogether.  Nonetheless, even alone, this  work stands as one of the true monuments in the history of liberty, and one  can only hope that the Sidney's legacy will continue to enlighten and  inspire the true friends of liberty for centuries to come.	2000-08-04
US	51944702	R1VJS2M44DBVWO	0865970661	743960546	History of the Rise, Progress, and Termination of the American Revolution (2 Volume Set)	Books	5	62	64	N	N	An Invaluable Resource	For those interested in the American Revolution, this work is a must.  Mercy Otis Warren, a witnesss to the Revolution from start to finish, offers here an eloquent, inspired, profound, and even reliable contemporary  account of the epochal events that occured in the crucial period of  American history beginning with the Stamp act and terminating with the  adoption of the Constitution.  However, unlike modern scholarly accounts  of the Revolution, Warren makes no effort to remain unbiased.  Throughout  the work, she firmly and passionately upholds the cause and values of  liberty and republicanism.  Despite this, she still makes a concerted  effort to portray accurately and impartially the events that took place.  And while she is at all times staunchly supportive of the cause of the  revolutionists, she is quick to condemn cruelty, inhumanity, dishonesty,  immorality, and barbarity wherever she finds it.<br />With these principles  firmly in mind, she relates the key figures and events beginning with the  reaction to the Stamp Act in the mid-1760s.  From this point, she provides  an able and suprisingly veracious account of the principal political,  military, and diplomatic occurences, as well as the ideological status of  both the American and British people.  In addition to this, she also makes  a point to illuminate several important yet neglected individual and the  part that they played in the struggle.  The historical significance of such  accounts are further augmented by the fact that Warren herself was  personally acquanted, either in person or through correspondance.  Her  relationships, fortunately enough, were not restricted to obscure figures,  but rather extended to many figures of enduring stature, such as John  Adams.<br />Ultimately, the main value of the work is that it presents a  contemporary scholarly exposition of the events of the American Revolution  through the eyes of an individual who clearly embodied the libertarian and  republican tendencies of the era.  In the same vein, the work garners  further importance as an example of the Anti-Federalist tradition.  Warren,  as many may know, was an outspoken opponent of the Constitution, writing as  the reknowned &quot;Columbian Patriot.&quot;  The final chapter of this  work offers further insight into this aspect of her though, so much so that  Herbert J. Storing included it in his 7 volume collection of  Anti-Federalist material.<br />Although the value of this work is  immense, it goes without saying that one should not engage it as the  definitive account of the Revolution.  One should, of course, consult the  works of modern scholars to gain a more comprehensive account of era.  Still, Warren's volumes stand as perhaps the finest contemporary account of  the Revolution, and they certainly deserve more attention than they have  received in the nearly two centuries that they have been available.ncies of the era.  In the same vein, the work garners  further importance as an example of the Anti-Federalist tradition.  Warren,  as many may know, was an outspoken opponent of the Constitution, writing as  the reknowned &quot;Columbian Patriot.&quot;  The final chapter of this  work offers further insight into this aspect of her though, so much so that  Herbert J. Storing included it in his 7 volume collection of  Anti-Federalist material.<br />Although the value of this work is  immense, it goes without saying that one should not engage it as the  definitive account of the Revolution.  One should, of course, consult the  works of modern scholars to gain a more comprehensive account of era.  Still, Warren's volumes stand as perhaps the finest contemporary account of  the Revolution, and they certainly deserve more attention than they have  received in the nearly two centuries that they have been available.	2000-07-31
US	51944702	R1CDKW6MOLOVCZ	0873190246	307834447	Mr. Jefferson	Books	4	22	30	N	N	Brilliant but Flawed	Albert J. Nock has long been known by those familiar with his work as a shrewd commentator who is always eager to &quot;tell it as it is.&quot;  When his premises are correct, this can be refreshing, to say the least.   However, when he misses the mark, the results can be embarassing.  This  work, much like his infamous &quot;Our Enemy the State,&quot; is a great  testament to this.<br />However, to begin with, there is much of great worth  and interest in this volume.  Nock, as one scholar has observed, was a  supremely literate man, and his great learning and intelligence is clearly  evident throughout this work.  Unlike many other authors, Nock reflects a  deep, thorough knowledge of Jefferson's life and writings.  Furthermore,  few modern authors can equal Nock's beautiful prose style.  Thus, when one  reads of Jefferson's opinion on architechure, art, philosophy, or  agriculture, we have some of the most delightful passages in all of the  Jefferson literature.<br />Unfortunately, a large portion of the work is  consumed by Nock's grossly inaccurate analysis of the political environment  of the early republic.  Economic determinism in the tradition of Charles A.  Beard and Henry George is the gist of what you find, and all of their  fallacies and flaws are given full exercise.  Indeed, as one Jefferson  scholar has remarked, this work reveals a &quot;uncritical&quot; use of the  Beard thesis.  Thus, Jefferson is portrayed, not as an advocate of natural  rights or anything of the sort, but as the supporter of the interests of  the producing class against those of the exploiting class.  As one would  expect, the Constitution is portrayed simply as a tool for economic  exploitation, and much ink is spilled documenting the evils of Hamilton,  the Federalists, as well as &quot;speculators.&quot;  While all of this is  not without a semblance of truth, his simplistic and often misleading  exegesis is very dissapointing.  <br />Nevertheless, as I have said, the work  still has great value, largely as a brilliant account of Jefferson's  interests and character.  Nock is fundamentally correct when he focuses on  the fact that Jefferson's real views are very far from those of his  comtemporaries, and even farther from  those who claim his name for support  in later days.  Ultimately, I would only recommend this work to individuals  who have already done a good deal of study in Jefferson's life and ideas,  for  only these individuals will be able to see the true worth of this  study despite its many flaws.	2000-06-20
US	51944702	R2XVWKUW2RW97U	3110145200	414643573	Ecce Homo! An Eighteenth Century Life of Jesus (History of Religions in Translation, No. 1)	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Important Work	Here you have a true, overlooked, ignored, and underappreciated masterpiece.  This is a critical edition of the 1799 English translation of Baron d'Holbach's &quot;Histoire critique de Jésus-Christ,&quot; the first  known biography of Jesus ever produced.  While Baron d'Holbach, the  reknowned atheistical philosophe, has received credit for this work, the  bulk of the work is actually based upon a manuscript produced by a now  unknown French deist.  Nevertheless, his mark is seen throughout the text,  as he made a large number additions and notes to the text, and not to  mention the entire text of the preface as well as the final three chapters.   Although d'Holbach clearly based the work on the text of someone else, the  charge of the editor that he was guilty of plagiarism is clearly  unwarranted, as the work was published under a false name, and his  involvement in the production of the work, in addition to his others, was  always kept tightly concealed.<br />Regardless, the text itself is basically  an analysis of the life and events of Jesus Christ.  He begins with the  various prophecies relating to the birth of Jesus, and then quickly moves  on to such issues as the Virgin birth,  his childhood, and so on.   Throughout the work, the absurdities, distortions, and dogmas of the New  Testament are given no credence.  This is especially evident when the many  &quot;miracles&quot; performed by Jesus are discussed.  These events, quite  astutely, are attributed more to the crafty nature of Jesus as well as the  extreme credulity of those who he chooses to dupe.  In addition to this, he  also places the moral doctrines of Jesus under strict scrutiny, ultimately  revealing them to be destructive of society as well as contrary to the very  nature of man. <br />Some of his sharpest comments however, are reserved for  the death of Jesus and his supposed resurrection.  The resurrection is  revealed to be a complete sham and myth, utterly unsupported by any  reasonable,coherent, or objective documentation.  Instead, he holds that  it was merely a ploy used by his close inner circle to bring the foolish  statements of their deceased leader to their fruition, and thus advance  their cause even further.  Nonetheless, his most caustic comments are  reserved for the last two chapters, in which he reviews his critique of  Jesus' life and teachings, and extends his analysis to the history of  Christianity following his death.  Here he concludes that Christianity is  not only destructive in itself, but that its actual application and  institutionalisation has caused the world an endless amount of suffering by  allowing tyrants both temporal and spritual to oppress, rob, exploit, and  enslave the bulk of mankind, while stiffling true learning, science,  morality, and progress.  His solution, to all of this, is of course the  complete renunciation of religion, and the construction of a rational  morality based upon the solid foundation of nature.  For this, however, one  will have to consult his other great works, in particular his great tome,  &quot;The System of Nature.&quot;  This volume, however, is primarily an  exercise in destruction.  While this is almost certainly too strong a  medicine for most &quot;believers,&quot; those who have freed their minds  from the shackles of faith will find this a welcome addition to their  libraries.	2000-06-15
US	51944702	R1OUCSEYPZN653	0700602933	277975207	The Radical Politics of Thomas Jefferson	Books	1	15	42	N	N	Genuinely Poor Scholarship	Throughout the vast landscape of Jeffersonian scholarship, there are many great works, as well as many poor ones.  This work, however, must be placed in the later category.  Indeed, this is by far one of, if not the, worst  works on Jefferson that I have ever come into contact with.<br />Basically,  Matthews attempts to project his socialistic, staunchly anti-market  political philosophy onto Thomas Jefferson.  He portrays Jefferson as a  radical democrat who favored frequent redistribution of property and  &quot;pastoral&quot; argarianism.  While his conclusions might seem tenable  or even cogent to some, to those most others, they will seem completely  absurd and unfounded.<br />In the opening chapter, he briefly discusses the  history of early American historiography, specifically that pertaining or  relating to Jefferson and his political thought.  He dismisses most of it  with little justification, and chooses only a handful of then recent works  to build his analysis upon.  From the beginning, this does not augur well.   The next chapter sees Matthews taking Jefferson's words out of context and  extending them far beyond what they can rationally justify in order to  convince the reader that he was opposed to the Lockean right to private  property.  His justification features many distortions, as he confuses such  concepts as state and society, public and private, etc.  Upon the chapter's  end, he seems to believe that the matter is settled, while the reader will  be left scratching his head.<br />Nevertheless, it gets worse.  The third  chapter attempts to delve even further into Jefferson's views of the market  society and its effect on individuals and communities.  Throughout this  analysis, the author's clear socialist bias, as well as his complete  ignorance of the nature and principles of capitalism, are evident.  He  constantly makes use of quotes which purport to demonstrate Jefferson's  opposition to capitalism, which all the while only express his repugnance  to wealth acquired through the machinery of the state, and not through the  market.  In the same vein, his caustic strictures on the conditions in  feudalistic France are treated as if they were meant to encompass the  nascent capitalism of the United Kingdom.  This, of course, is absolutely  absurd, and even further, quite dishonest.<br />Keeping to his socialist  underpinnings, he continually makes use of C.B. Macpherson's smear of  Lockean libertarianism as nothing more that &quot;possessive  individualism.&quot;  Despite the fact that the (politically) Lockean  nature of Jefferson's thought is never by any means proven in the work, it  is almost quite amusing to hear him regularly deny that Jefferson was not a  &quot;possessive individualist.&quot;  Moreover, we are told that Jefferson  was not, like the author, anti-market in his orientation, but rather, that  he only envisioned a non-market ideal.  <br />Moving on, in perhaps the most  sober and accurate chapter of the work, Matthews discusses Jefferson's  opinions on natural equality and the &quot;moral sense&quot; in  relationship to his views of Native Americans and black slaves.  This  potentially fruitful discussion, however, is predictably perverted into yet  another inane exposition of Jefferson's non-market orientation.<br />With a  fully fabricated view of Jefferson's thought in hand, his views on  government are evinced with special attention paid to the dubious  concepts  of public and private happiness, the later being little different from the  positive liberty often discussed throughout the works in the Pocockian  school of &quot;Civic Humanism.&quot;  This particular section evolves  directly from consideration of Jefferson's notable advocacy of ward  republics.  As one would expect by this point, the true nature of his ideas  are bastardized to justify his imagined advocacy of &quot;public  happiness,&quot; which, coincidentally, has virtually no textual foundation  in any of his writings.<br />The fundamentally flawed nature of the work is  best revealed in the 6th chapter, in which Jefferson's political thought is  compared with that of Madison and Hamilton.  Hamilton, of course, is  characterized as the architect of American capitalism.  As any libertarian  would tell you, Hamilton's ideas are completely alien to the nature of  capitalism.  This however, does not bother the author, who is ignorant of  this nature.  With Hamiltonian mercantilism established as capitalism, it  is far easier for him to claim that Jefferson was a non-market theorist,  while in truth he was a far more faithful capitalist that Hamilton ever  was.<br />The conclusion of the work reveals, if nothing else, the primary  motivation for the work, viz. the presentation of a &quot;radical&quot;  American political tradition opposed to the purported evils of the  market  economy.  To Matthews, Jefferson is a text book critic of the market, and  his vision is completely alien from modern market liberalism.  This view,  regardless of what one thinks of it, cannot be accurately ascribed to  Thomas Jefferson.  For those interested in attaining a more accurate  perspective on Jeffersonian economics, I would strongly recommoned Joyce  Appleby's powerful work, &quot;Capitalism and A New Social Order.&quot;   Important also is David N. Mayer's more recent study of his Constitutional  thought.  However, by far the best antidote to the nonsense contained in  Matthew's volume is Michael Zuckert's pathbreaking piece &quot;The Natural  Rights Republic.&quot;  In this work, Zuckert develops an astonishingly  penetrating analysis of Jefferson's political philosophy, the conclusions  of which are completley opposite from those reached in this work.<br />As a  final note on the work now in consideration, I can honestly say that I  would not recommend it even to the interested Jefferson student or even  scholar.  The reader gains virtually nothing of any worth from this work,  as no tenable insight into this thought is even hinted at.  Unfortunately,  the only thing that this work reveals is a very poor scholar attempting to  project his absurd political convictions onto one of the greatest figures  in the history of mankind.  At its best, this effort can only be described  as ignominious.	2000-06-08
US	51944702	R1OWFVVRQIU7S1	0813919126	414868585	Power versus Liberty: Madison, Hamilton, Wilson, and Jefferson	Books	2	15	22	N	N	Disappointing	Before reading this work, I looked upon it as very promising.  Read, in contrast the vast majority of other historians of the era, proposes to analyze and contrast the political philosophies of four major early  Americans by examining their views on the relationship between power and  liberty.  Thus,  the author is also in effect transcending the trite  republicanism/liberalism dichotomy that has domincated scholarship for  decades by returning to the methodology used by the great Bernard Bailyn.  Unfortunately, the author ultimately fails to execute.<br />Madison is the  first thinker that he discusses, and along with the chapter on Wilson, this  is the highlight of the book.  He effectively argues that Madison was a  much more consistent thinker than past scholars have made him out to be.  While Madison's transformation from an ally to Hamilton during the  Constitutional Convention to a strong opponent several years later has long  puzzled historians, Read demonstrates the consistenty that he maintained in  both positions as related through his interpretation of the Constitution  and the public's understanding and perception of it.  In addition to this,  he also undertakes the strangely neglected task of comparing Madison with  Hamilton.  This however, leads the first major downfall of the study, viz.  his unsound analysis of Hamilton.<br />To begin with, even the subtitle of  this chapter is enough to arouse one's suspicions.  Hamilton is  characterized as a &quot;Libertarian and nationalist.&quot;  The later  appelation is certainly undisputable, but the former is clearly absurd to  anyone who has any idea what libertarianism actually entails.  Throughout  the chaper, Hamilton's supposed commitment to liberty and other traditional  Whig or republican principles is given far too much emphasis with far too  little substantive evidence.  Along with this, Hamilton's views on  Constitional and economic policy are given a shallow, sympathetic  treatment, while other aspects of his life and thought are either ignored  or merely glossed over.  This of course, largely serves to vitiate the very  promising contrast of Hamilton with Madison that he conducts.<br />Nevertheless, the chapter on James Wilson is quite valuable, especially  since he, unlike the other 3 figures dealt with, has been prodominantly  ignored by modern scholars.  He shows that while Wilson was as committed to  the concept of popular sovreignty as Thomas Jefferson, he believed that the  proper manner to systemize this was primarily through the Federal  government.  Hence, Wilson, like Hamilton, was a proponent of  &quot;energetic government,&quot; because he viewed it as the proper  systemization of the &quot;energy&quot; of the sovereign people.<br />Although  the chaper on Hamilton was bad, that dealing with Jefferson is worse.  Read, quite correctly, recognizes throughout the work that Jefferson,  (unlike Madison, Hamilton, and Wilson) viewed power and liberty as polar  opposites, with every increase of power entailing a proportionate decrease  in liberty.  T  Surprisingly , however, his actual analysis of his thought  is among the worst that I have ever read.  He seems to make a concerted  effort to make his political philosophy as nebulous and contradictory as  possible.  Moreover, while he cites David N. Mayer's invaluable work on  Jefferson's Constitutional thought, and even states that fellow scholar  Michael Zuckert helped him with the work; he utilizes the flawed and  inaccurate work of Lance Banning and Richard Matthews.  As a result of  this, he takes up the absurd contention that Jefferson was an agrarian who  opposed capitalism, and thus Hamilton and his radical vision for a new  economic order.<br />This view, in addition to being completely unfounded,  also highlights the paucity of Read's sources.  Such important works as  Joyce Appleby's &quot;Capitalism &amp; A New Social Order&quot; and Garret  Sheldon's &quot;The Political Philosophy of Thomas Jefferson&quot; are  completely ignored.<br />While the analysis of Jefferson's thought is  dramatically poor, perhaps the worst aspect of the work is the author's  translation of views of each thinker to the politcal landscape of the late  20th century.  For the first three thinkers, he manages to claim that their  theories may actually be able to fit modern day circumstances.  Jefferson,  however, is excluded from this, given his radical views on power.  In each  case, he uses the common statist platitude that convictions formulated two  centuries ago cannot apply to issues out of their temporal context.  In the  case of all of these men, even Hamilton, this argument is patently absurd,  as their adherence to the principals of natural rights and liberty  certainly make clear.  As Jefferson once said, Nothing...is unchangeable  but the inherent and unalienable rights of man.&quot;  Consideration of  this, among other Founding principles, has led even as staunch a  Hamiltonian as Forrest McDonald to conclude the Founding Fathers would look  upon the current government as tyrannical.  As should be obvious, I view  this work as very deeply flawed.  Nevertheless, given the proper author  utilizing the same methodology, this could have been a truly fascinating  and valuable piece of scholarship.	2000-06-03
US	51944702	R1RCCUADEHQXV6	0819176273	358216927	The Radical Whigs, John Trenchard and Thomas Gordon: Libertarian Loyalists to the New House of Hanover	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Mixed Bag	For better of worse, this slim volume is the only full-length work in existence that deals with the lives and thought of the great British political philosopher &quot;Cato,&quot; viz. John Trenchard and Thomas  Gordon.  First of all, McMahon offers a large amount of information and  ideas based upon sources that the average reader does not have access too.   Regardless of the veracity of her interpretations, this fact alone makes  this book a must have for anyone who is truly interested in  &quot;Cato&quot; and their era.  However, I do find many of her conclusions  to be rather untenable.  The basic gist of her work is that  &quot;Cato&quot; was not really an enemy to Robert Walpole's government, or  government all together, but rather they were actually friends to them.   She attempts to demonstrate that they were actually allies with the Whig  oligarchy and their mission of preserving the Hanoverian succession against  the threat of a Jacobite take over.  While she admits that much of their  work was focused on Parliamentary abuses of power, she equivocates that  this was never centered primarily on Walpole, and that they were only  attempting to direct Parliament down the path to their common cause.  All  of this, I believe, is severely mistaken.  Having read &quot;Cato's  Letters&quot; in their entirety, as well as healthy samples of &quot;The  Independent Whig,&quot; as well as several of their other works, it is  quite obvioust that &quot;Cato&quot; was by all means an enemy to Walpole's  oligarchy, as well as Walpole himself.  Moreover, &quot;Cato&quot; was by  all accounts a firm radical republican, opposed in principle to monarchy  and aristocracy.  While they most certainly supported the House of Hanover  against that of Stuart, this was only because this was by far the more  efficacious for the preservation and possible extension of individual  liberty that they sought.  Their defense of the British Constitution was  based upon their belief that it was the best system that the current moral  and political climate of Great Britain could support.  Furthermore, their  work was filled with thinly veiled attacks on enemies to liberty of all  kinds, whether they be monarchs, ministers, or standing armies.  Perhaps  McMahon erred in taking these comments for face value, and not considering  the fact that they were unable to reveal the true extent of their  libertarian radicalism in print due to the extent of censorship at the  time.  Despite the fact that her primary thesis is off the mark, she does  however provide an adept analysis of the primary elements of Cato's  political philosophy.  This, however, is tainted by her usage of this  information in relation to her thesis.  Nevertheless, the book on a whole  is stimulating and interesting, despite the fact that one may come away  from it in serious disagreement.  For a better understanding of Cato's  thought I would recommend, first of all, the excellent Liberty Fund edition  of &quot;Cato's Letters,&quot; as well as David L. Jacobson's lengthy  introduction to his selection of Cato's work, &quot;The English Libertarian  Heritage.&quot;  For those acquanted with these works already, I would  highly recommend Michael Zuckert's seminal work, &quot;Natural Rights and  the New Republicanism,&quot; the last chapter of which is without a doubt  the finest and most insightful analysis of Cato's thought that I know of.	2000-05-07
US	51944702	R2ICN0MY7CWOD5	0801854458	922707517	The Radical Enlightenments of Benjamin Franklin (New Studies in American Intellectual and Cultural History)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fascinating Study	Douglas Anderson has managed to produce a rich and extremely stimulating intellectual biography of Benjamin Franklin.  He traces Franklin's ideas as reflected in his various writings throughout his life, with special focus  on his literary and philosophical influences.  For instance, he shows that  Franklin, even in his teenage years,  managed to produce a work of rather  impressive learning and erudition, viz. Silence Dogood.  This work quotes  extensively from the popular English Republican work &quot;Cato's  Letters,&quot; and reflects explicitly the philosophical ideas of the great  moral philosophy Lord Shaftesbury.  Anderson ably demonstrates how his  ideas changed and evolved with time and experience, as Franklin moved from  being a poor apprentice to a publisher, scientist, politician, and  revolutionary diplomat.  He analyzes the full range of his thought on a  myriad of subjects, including politics, religion, and science.  In the end,  this work is a major accomplishment that offers the interested reader a  vast amount of enjoyment and education.	2000-05-06
US	51944702	R1NBRD7C4TH84V	0930073061	212591909	The Lysander Spooner Reader	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Refreshing Radicalism	There are only a few major minds that every libertarian should be familiar with, and Lysander Spooner is one of them.  Without a doubt, he was one of the most radical, consistent, and eccentric libertarians in all of history.  Although he never explicitly identified himself as an anarchist, his works  leave no doubt about his stance.  Fortunately for the reading public, his  most important works have been gathered in this fine, affordable edition.   The pieces featured here include his wonderful &quot;No Treason,&quot; in  which he demonstrates the complete absurdity of popular conceptions and  justifications of government, particularly those associated with the United  States and its Constitution.  His critique of government is further  expanded upon in his brilliant &quot;Natural Law.&quot;  While the seasoned  radical libertarian will be overjoyed and delighted by the force and  eloquence of his writing, those of a more moderate bent may be startled by  his conclusions.  This however, is a good thing.  In addition to several  smaller pieces, this collection also features the work that perhaps should  be considered as his magnum opus, viz. his &quot;Trial By Jury.&quot;  Here  Spooner employs a massive amount of knowledge and erudition in order to  defend what is commonly known as jury nullification, i.e. the theory that  proposes that juries should have the right to judge the justness of the law  as well as the facts of the individual case.  This is especially  significant for those anarcho-capitalists wishing to investigate the  potentialities for a purely voluntary social order.  Spooner's work  suggests a system of decentralized law founded upon the right to trial by  jury, and indeed, his ideas deserve serious consideration.	2000-05-04
US	51944702	R3PMXVPWKA21P3	0913966630	767738963	Socialism: An Economic and Sociological Analysis	Books	5	179	199	N	N	Epochal Work	This work is an absolute masterpiece.  Originally published in 1922, this work features von Mises at his best.  He completely demolishes socialism from almost every angle concievable.  He demonstrates that socialism cannot function rationally, period.   The primary contribution that this work is  cited for, is of course the proof of the theory that economic calculation  is impossible under socialism.  Building on this fact, as well as many  other important insights, socialism is shown to be little more than a  chimera with virtually no scientific backing whatsoever.  Quite nearly  every major form or variant of socialism is critiqued, from marxism to  Christian socialism, and even  syndicalism.  In each case, the conclusion  is the same, i.e. socialism destroys society and civilization and replaces  it with slavery, chaos, and poverty.  Indeed, Mises correctly identifies  socialism as a fundamentally destructive, purely anti-social force.  In  sharp contrast to this is the capitalist form of society based upon the  principles of (classical) liberalism.  Throughout the work, Mises refutes  widespread misconceptions, myths and anti-capitalist dogmas associated with  the market economy.  At all times it is made clear that it is only  capitalism that can sustain and advance the needs of individuals and their  civilization.  The importance of this work is difficult to overestimate.   It is without a doubt, one of the greatest works of the last century, if  not of all time.  Even now, after almost eight decades in print, his  principles stand unrefuted, even as we continue to slip down the slope  toward complete state slavery.  The fact that the message of his work has  not eliminated the evils that he exposed takes nothing away from his  achievement.  As long as there are a few individuals remaining in whom the  spirit of liberty remains strong, this work will continue to shine as a  profound monument to the intellectual potential of man, and the superiority  of capitalism.	2000-05-03
US	51944702	R2KA34K9EJIMOQ	0840212232	849549924	Man, Economy and State : A Treatise on Economic Principles	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Brilliant	This work is perhaps the most thorough and consistent exposition of capitalist economics in existence.  Murray Rothbard built his work upon the epochal contributions of the Austrian school of economics, primarily the ideas of the great Ludwig von Mises.  However, Rothbard did not merely  rehash what they had taught him, he also ironed out their ambiguities and  shortcomings in order to construct a mighty, rock solid edifice.  Despite  the size of this work, it is as well suited to the needs of nascent  libertarians, as it is to those of more advanced students.  Rothbard begins  with the very foundations of human action, and builds upon them logically  in order to explain in depth the complexities of the market economy.  At  the same time, he provides a powerful assault upon socialism and other  forms of anti-market ideology by contrasting these systems to capitalism  and refuting widely held anti-market myths.  The only significant  shortcoming that I can think of is the truncated form of Rothbard's  brilliant critique of all government action.  Apparently, the original  publishers of this work were taken aback by his anarchistic conclusions,  so, in order to comprehend the full weight of his analysis, it will be  necessary to seek out his path-breaking work, &quot;Power and Market.&quot;   Together, these works represent one of the greatest defenses of individual  liberty and civilization ever to be produced.	2000-05-03
US	51944702	RMAO1J05CC2XJ	1564597946	437082185	Superstition in All Ages	Books	5	50	53	N	N	Atheist Masterpiece	First of all, this work was not written by Jean Meslier, and the real title is not &quot;Superstition In All Ages.&quot;  In reality, this work is Baron d'Holbach's masterpiece, &quot;Good&quot; or &quot;Common  Sense.&quot;  Due to the severe restrictions on the press in the 18th  century, d'Holbach published virtually all of his work under the names of  famous dead people.  Amazingly, the only edition of this fine work that is  still in print does not even credit the real author of the work!   Nevertheless, the substance of the book is the same.  To be honest, this is  one of the best atheist tracts ever written.  It is a more cogent  presentation of the ideas that Holbach set forth in his famous &quot;System  of Nature.&quot;  He completely destroys any rationale for &quot;God,&quot;  or anything else of the supernatural bent.  He relentlessly attacks  Christian dogma, revealing just how truly absurd it is.  Moreover, he also  demonstrates how harmful religion has been to individuals and to societies,  and why it is a highly immoral force.  Overall, this is still a devastating  and profound exposition of atheist ideas.  Although I agree with most of  his ideas, I must admit that I am not inclined to follow his materialism or  determinism/fatalism.  Beyond this, I would recommend this work to both  atheists and theists alike.  The former will be exposed to some refreshing  ideas, and the latter will surely be in for quite the shock, as their  superstitions will be thoroughly undermined, if of course, they make use of  their rational faculites.	2000-02-11
US	51944702	R2D28WXJG76SH0	0836207513	252250174	Power and Market: Government and the Economy	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Powerful Work	This volume is one of the most important economic works of the 20th century.  For the most part, the bulk of this work is really nothing more than an extension of the chapter on &quot;violent intervention&quot; in  &quot;Man, Economy, and State.&quot;  Unfortunately the initial publishers  of that work balked at the radical views set forth, and therefore forced  Rothbard to truncate his analysis.  Nevertheless, we are fortunate enough  to have this work, in he elaborates on his work in order to offer a  complete praxeological critique of *all* governmental action.  He  classifies government intervention into 3 basic categories; autistic,  binary, and triangular, and proceeds to refute arguments for all of them.   Dealt with are the more commonplace statist policies such as licensing,  antitrust, etc., as well as many generally off-limit areas.  Indeed,  probably the most startling and important aspect of this work is the  lengthy refutation of virtually every significant justification of  taxation, from the income tax to the Georgist single tax.  Even common  &quot;conservative&quot; myths are given no standing, as Rothbard  demonstrates that there is really no such thing as a &quot;neutral  tax,&quot; and that all taxation, however applied, has sharply negative  effects on the market economy.  In addition to this, Rothbard develops a  very stimulating refutation of common ethical arguments against capitalism,  showing them to be incompatible with reality and economics.  Although by  and large the work is solid, I must say that I still disagree on several  points with Rothbard's particular vision for a totally free, voluntary  society.  Nonetheless, we are not very far apart.  Altogether, I have to  say that this work is a landmark in economic theory, and should be on the  bookshelf of every serious radical libertarian.	2000-01-02
US	51944702	R1BAS1WEWCOLLQ	091396641X	806372546	The Right and Wrong of Compulsion by the State	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Beautiful Work	This volume is an essential collection of the profound works of Auberon Herbert, the fountainhead of &quot;voluntaryism.&quot;  Herbert took Herbert Spencer's famous law of equal freedom, and extended it to its full  extent.  As a result, Herbert concluded, as Ayn Rand, Murray Rothbard, et  al, have since, that physical force is evil, and that the only legitimate,  or at least, acceptable use of force is in defense.  Moreover, Herbert  concluded that it was illegitimate for *anyone* to utilize force, even  government agents.  Therefore, all forms of government intervention beyond  the basic protection of individual rights is both illegitimate and immoral,  including taxation.  In fact, he even offers a 29 point case against all  taxation in one particular piece.  In place of coercive government, Herbert  proposed defensive services financed voluntarily, and indeed, this is the  only moral method.  Throughout the work, one is consistently delighted by  Herbert's firm and eloquent advocacy of individualism, rationality,  responsibility, and progress.  Admirers of Ayn Rand and Objectivism should  especially enjoy this work.  Above all, Herbert's writings are delightful  and often deeply moving pieces of work, and I can only hope that friends of  liberty and reason become more acquanted with them in the future.	1999-12-31
US	51944702	R36XIQY1V8F32P	0877229430	194402811	Atheism: A Philosophical Justification	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Rock Solid Case For Atheism	This work is an erudite masterpiece.  Martin tackles all of the major theistic arguments from a highly technical level.  Although the concepts at hand are complex, they should not be too abstruse for the intelligent  layman, or at least, I should hope.  Perhaps the most valuable aspect of  this volume is the long exposition of &quot;Positive Atheism,&quot; a  subject that is very often ignored by many atheists.  I hesitate to label  this as *the* best single book on atheism, as George Smith's work is in my  mind, but I will say honestly that it is necessary reading for all serious  atheists.	1999-12-25
US	51944702	R39JLPKP4OCCRZ	087975124X	506739930	Atheism: The Case Against God (The Skeptic's Bookshelf)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Best Work on Atheism	If you are looking for a solid, clear, rational exposition of atheism, look no further.  Smith presents atheism forcefully and consistently throughout the work.  All of the common, and even many of the uncommon,  theistic, as well as agnostic arguments are dealt with ably.  Smith's work  is especially valuable because of the Objectivist insights that he brings  to the work.  Unlike many other atheist philosophers, Smith's thought is  grounded in a systematic, objective theory of epistemology as well as  metaphysics.  His Objectivist leanings are even more evident when he delves  into the issue of atheistic ethics.   I find this particularly important  because of the fact that atheism, in itself, does not represent much of  anything if it is not placed within the context of a broader philosophy of  reason.  I am constantly upset by atheists who uphold the value of reason  and objectivity far enough to reject theism, but at the same time employ  some form or the other of skepticism or subjectivism in the rest of their  philosophy.  Despite this, the prominence of Smith's work is in a way  reassuring, as he does not present atheism out of its proper context.  I  can only hope that people take all of his ideas seriously.	1999-12-25
US	51944702	R351WIR29FJRAE	0268014809	693375196	The Natural Rights Republic: Studies in the Foundation of the American Political Tradition (Frank M. Covey, Jr., Loyola Lectures in Political Analysis)	Books	5	35	38	N	N	Intellectual Tour de Force	Yet again, Michael Zuckert has produced a forceful, challenging, and overly fascinating work of scholarship.  His previous work, &quot;Natural Rights and the New Republicanism,&quot; in many ways a &quot;prequel&quot;  to this volume, was a historical and not to mention philosophical landmark.   This work picks up right where he left off.  Part I of the work consists  of an in depth analysis of the Declaration of Independence.  This  interpretration bristles with new insight.  Unlike many past scholars,  Zuckert makes an overt effort to place the Declaration in context.  He does  this by examining other sources of information, e.g. Thomas Jefferson's  &quot;Notes on Virginia&quot; for instance.  The end result, I must say, is  brilliant.  Contrary to modern conceptions, he demonstrates what the  Declaration was really meant to say, and, at the same time, how  philosophically sophisticated it really was.  In Part II, Zuckert endeavors  to prove that the United States was indeed founded as the natural rights  republic, in a modern, dynamic, forward looking philosophical climate.  To  begin with, he picks apart the thesis that the American Revolution was  merely an extension of the Glorious Revolution undertaken by  the Whig  ruling class in the late 1680s.  This however, is nothing new, especially  if one has already read his account of the Glorious Revolution and natural  rights philosophy in his previous work.  Nevertheless, he shows  conclusively the incompatibility between the two Revolutions, primarily,  but not wholly, through a comparison of the Declaration of Independence and  the English &quot;Bill of Rights.&quot;  Moving on, Chapters 5 and 6  address the issue of Puritanism and its legacy in early America.  Many  scholars have proposed that the American Revolution was merely an extension  of ideals held by the early Calvinist settlers of the 17th century.  It is  this thesis, however, that Zuckert completely demolishes.  He conducts and  in depth analysis of Puritan ideology, as well as its sources.  Of  particular interest is discussion of Martin Luther's concept of the  &quot;Two Kingdoms,&quot; and its influence in American thought.  To make a  long story short, he demonstrates how dramatically Locke's ideas clash with  those of the early Puritans.  This contention is driven home clearly by an  examination of important political/relgious thinkers in 18th centiry New  England, Elisha Williams and Jonathan Mayhew in particular. Finally, in  Chapter 7 finds Zuckert further pushing his case for the natural rights  republic.  He takes on the so-called &quot;classical republican&quot; or  &quot;civic humanist&quot; thesis expounded by such scholars as J.G.A.  Pocock and Gordon Wood, deftly making mincemeat of them. Pressing on, he  examines Thomas Jefferson's evolving political philosophy to reveal the  truly radical, natural rightist foundations of American republicanism.   Although the book is by and large solid, I do have several misgivings about  it.  First and foremost, Zuckert's Jefferson scholarship is highy suspect,  as can be devined through use of Merill Peterson's biography, as the small,  unscholarly Library of America collection of Jefferson's writings.  I was  very surprised that he did not cite Dumas Malone's definitive 6 volume  biography &quot;Jefferson and His Time,&quot; or Julian Boyd's definitive  collection of Jefferson's papers.  Also, Zuckert's refutation of the  Puritan &quot;Continuity Thesis,&quot; strikes me as a bit odd, as it does  not prove anything at all concerning the colonies outside of New England,  none of which have any Puritan heritage whatsoever.  Despite these  shortcomings, the work as a whole is brilliant.  This volume, as well as  his previous offering, is an absolute must for anyone interested in the  relevant disciplines.	1999-12-24
US	51944702	R1H0244AZEQDBA	0451147952	325358008	Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Moral Case For Capitalism	For nascent Objectivists or libertarians, this work is undoubtedly the best single introduction to what's really important about capitalism.  Not only does Rand et al dispell widely held myths and  misconceptions about  the workings of the free-market in theory and throughout history, but they  also present a relentless moral case for freedom.  There is no garbage  about &quot;the common good,&quot; or &quot;the greatest benefit to the  greatest number,&quot; but rather, a consistent appeal to the right of each  human being to his life, liberty, and property.  Moreover, not only is the  case made from the simple standpoint of natural rights, but also from the  more controversial framework of ethicial egoism, or, to put it more  clearly, rational selfishness.  Nevertheless, some of Rand's ideas  concerning the actual framework of a free society are a bit off the mark,  such as her scheme for financing government through a lottery or her  aversion to violent civil resistance.  Regardless of this, the work is  solid, and I give it my highest recommendation.	1999-12-23
US	51944702	R33TFZXOO5XCSO	0930073096	759311235	The English Libertarian Heritage: From the Writings of John Trenchard and Thomas Gordon in the Independent Whig and Catos Letters	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Great Selection with Essential Intro.	This is a wonderful book that every libertarian should own.  It features a solid selection of some of the best pieces in &quot;Cato's Letters&quot; as well as the &quot;Independent Whig.&quot;  These works expounded some of  the most radical libertarian principles that the world has ever known.   Trenchard and Gordon advocated natural rights, including the right to  revolution, and looked upon every governmental action, as well as every  individual who possessed political power, as suspect.  This philosophy of  is key to understanding the American Revolution, because, as Jacobson  notes, Americans loved these works and read them frequently.  Aside from  the actual texts included here, Jacobsons' lengthy introduction and  bibiography are wonderful  sources of information on &quot;Cato's&quot;  lives, thought, and influence.  Nevertheless, if one is truly interesting  in their work, I would suggest a purchase that the Liberty Fund's fine  edition of the complete &quot;Cato's Letters&quot; as well.	1999-12-19
US	51944702	RANCUEM56DT7Q	0930073029	156045134	For a New Liberty: The Libertarian Manifesto	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Best Intro. To Libertarianism	&quot;For a New Liberty&quot; is by far the best introduction to radical libertarianism that you can find.  Beginning with the non-aggression principle, Rothbard builds a libertarian theory of natural rights and  applies it to every aspect of social and political interaction.  He picks  apart the common justifications for government action, and then proceeds to  make a case against even a minimal level of government.  Although I am a  bit skeptical concerning Rothbard's ideas concerning courts and law, his  ideas are refreshing and challenging.  Altogether, if you want to know what  libertarianism is all about, don't start off with moderate libertarians  like Milton Friedman or F.A. Hayek, but rather, pick up a copy of this  work, and perhaps Ayn Rand's &quot;Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal.&quot;   The former will give you a solid introduction to the politics of  libertarianism, while the latter will give you this in addition to the  proper ethical and moral foundations of individualism.	1999-12-19
US	51944702	R2PDRDPLN6ZKT8	0911312587	964492817	Progress and Poverty: An Inquiry in the Cause of Industrial Depressions and of Increase of Want with Increase of Wealth... The Remedy	Books	4	4	36	N	N	Classic Case For Land Communism	This is a brilliant work that every good socialist should read.  George presents the case for the single tax, which will effectively guarantee everyman's right to the earth, or at least compensation from those who have  violated his right.  George's other, &quot;libertarian&quot; ideas are  total garbage.  I cannot see how a man so in touch with the land question  can possibly stop short of full blown socialism.  Everything else in the  world is simply &quot;economic land,&quot; and no individual has a right to  own any of it.  As Proudhon said, &quot;Property is theft.&quot;  Poverty  will always exist until the exploitation of capitalism is ended.	1999-12-16
US	51944702	RYDFO8KYGIS3R	0674443020	734738555	The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution	Books	5	74	77	N	N	Magnificent	This work is a classic.  Bailyn brilliantly traces the ideological background of the revolutionaries.  He shows how they were steeped in the radical libertarian and republican opposition literature of 17th and 18th  century England.  He overturms traditional interpretations that stress  Locke as the primary influence by demonstrating the vital importance of  such men as Algernon Sidney, John Milton, John Trenchard &amp; Thomas  Gordon, Lord Bolingbroke, and a host of others.  Despite this, Bailyn does  not deny the centrality of Locken natural rights philosophy, as many more  recent scholars have.  He sees the basic  philosophy behind the revolution  as one which views power as the eternal enemy of liberty.  Power must be  watched and restrained tightly, otherwise it will exceed its bounds and  bring about the end of liberty and the initiation of slavery.  He also  delves into various issues relating to this philosophy that surrounded the  break from Great Britain as well, including the unsettling consequences of  their revolutionary agenda(e.g. new views of slavery).  In the revised  edition of the work, Bailyn extends his analysis to the new U.S.  Constitution.  Contrary to many other scholars, Bailyn maintains that the  new Constitution did not represent a repudiation of the Revolution, but  rather, its fulfillment.  I myself am still a bit skeptical concerning this  point, but his scholarship is sound, and his reasoning is suggestive and  challenging.  Above all, I would have to say that this work is an absolute  *must* for any individual who is interested in early-American history or  political philosophy.  Moreover, it is also very instructive for liberty  loving Americans, as it reveals the nature of the truly radical libertarian  foundations of our nation.	1999-12-13
US	51944702	R124M5I3BUU1PD	0394708652	387799711	The Origins of American Politics	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Fascinating	Bailyn complements furthers his study of 18th century America by examining the political history of the colonies.  He spends ample time discussing the political environment of each colony, with a special eye on conflicts and  controversies.  A major theme throughout is the conflict between the  elective houses of the legislatures and the Crown appointed office of  Governor.  He documents individual cases such John Peter Zenger's famous  trial and the King's College crisis in New York.  Lastly, he pays special  attention to the ideological proclivities of Americans.  He gives special  attention to the pervasive influence of Trenchard and Gordon's magnificent  &quot;Cato's Letters,&quot; as well as the politicla writings of Lord  Bolingbroke.  Ultimately, it is a subtle and overly stimulating piece of  scholarship.  Highly recommended	1999-12-13
US	51944702	RHUIXEG5AAL9M	0691059705	764350775	Natural Rights and the New Republicanism	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Seminal	This is a profound and important work.  Zuckert analyzes in depth the history and development of republican ideology, revealing much that is new and refuting much that has been assumed in the past.  He identifies three  distinct strains of republican thought, Protestant, Grotian, and Lockean.  He conducts an in depth examination of John Milton and Hugo Grotius, with  special emphasis on their similarities with Locke.  In addition, he rebuts  a good deal of the inane nonsense that has been passed off as ideological  scholarship for the past three decades.  In particular, he virtually  destroys the theories of J.G.A. Pocock and his band of followes, including  Gordon Wood.  On a side note, he manages to rescue Bernard Bailyn from his  categorization as a &quot;Republican revisionist&quot; by showing how much  he really differs from Pocock et al.  Following this, he painstakingly  examines John Locke's thought.  His findings are fresh and challenging.  More importantly, he explains just how original he was and subsequently  just why he was so important.  To top it all off, he takes a look  a&quot;Cato's Letters,&quot; showing how the authors managed to synthesize  Lockean liberalism with republicanism, producing one of the most brilliant  works in the history of political philosophy.  Despite its general  brilliance, I do have some misgivings about certain aspects of the work.  Although I certainly acknowledge the importance of Lockean ideas, I have to  say that Lockean ideas are not necessarily  found in Locke alone.  One  individual in particular, Algernon Sidney, expressed many Lockean ideas  before Locke, and his works were widely influential throughout England and  America.  Beyond this and a few other quibbles, this book is virtually  flawless.  If one is interested in the issues at hand, this work is an  absolute must.	1999-11-27
US	51944702	R3J2L5RY8F61XK	0521640512	164939443	Jefferson: Political Writings (Cambridge Texts in the History of Political Thought)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Strong Collection	This volume is a welcome addition to the various editions of Jefferson's writings available.  Although many of the selections may be found in the Library of America edition, this work conveniently arranges them topically.   In addition, there are many pieces *not* available anywhere else.  Perhaps  the most valuable aspect of the work is the large and informative list of  short biographies in front.  The only real drawback I can see is the  exclusion of some important documents, most notably his draft of the  Kentucky Resolutions of 1798.  But on the whole, it's great, and it should  appeal to most serious Jeffersonians.	1999-11-27
US	51944702	R4V0I8Q00UUOF	0521640512	164939443	Jefferson: Political Writings (Cambridge Texts in the History of Political Thought)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Strong Collection	This volume is a welcome addition to the various editions of Jefferson's writings available.  Although many of the selections may be found in the Library of America edition, this work conveniently arranges them topically.   In addition, there are many pieces *not* available anywhere else.  Perhaps  the most valuable aspect of the work is the large and informative list of  short biographies in front.  The only real drawback I can see is the  exclusion of some important documents, most notably his draft of the  Kentucky Resolutions of 1798(perhaps the most profound and succint  expression of Jefferson's political philosophy there is).  But on the  whole, it's great, and it should appeal to most serious Jeffersonians.	1999-11-27
US	51944702	R2LPU07DWUQX83	0316544728	335675388	001: Jefferson the Virginian - Volume I (Jefferson and His Time) (Volume 1)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Magisterial	Malone's biography of Jefferson is one of the greatest works of historical scholarship ever written.  It is an absolute must for every serious student of Jefffeson or the times he lived in.  At  times Malone's personal  preferences and opinions creep into the narrative.  This can be seen most  clearly during his discussion of Jefferson's draft of the Kentucky  Resolutions.  Due to his clear Unionist slant, it seems almost as if he is  apologizing for Jefferson's ardent state's rights sentiments.   Nevertheless, every important issue and event in Jefferson's long life is  dealth with ably and with ample documentation, leaving the reader to decide  what he or she feels.  It is amazing that one man devoted the last four  decades of his life to writing this work.  All I can say is that it was a  noble enterprise, and that the world is in his debt.	1999-11-25
US	51944702	R19L3WS3BZBCQU	0393008967	610860437	The Meaning of Independence: John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, George Washington (Norton Library)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wonderful	This is a truly fascinating and engaging work.  The meaning of indepence from Great Britain is much more profound that one would think on first thought.  With this idea in mind, Morgan penetrates to the fundamental  ideas and characters of each three men.  For both Washington and Adams, I  must say that he is right on target.  His account of Jefferson is also  good, although I cannot help but wonder why Morgan spends some much time  and space castigating the man for what he views to be his short-comings.   Regardless of the actual merit of his criticisms, he clearly strays rather  far from the subject of the work.  Nevertheless, the piece as a whole is  gem.	1999-11-07
US	51944702	RW0KWU7YBPB7D	0313227039	607286425	The Puritan Family: Religion & Domestic Relations in Seventeenth-Century New England	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Right on Target	This work provides a wonderful analysis of the intricacies of dailyn life in the 17th century.  Although it may seem a dry subject, it is actually fascinating to learn about, and provides the reader with a great  understanding of the real people that lived so long ago.	1999-11-07
US	51944702	R1PM9P8W1LDWRA	039330048X	194237010	Alexander Hamilton: A Biography	Books	1	11	46	N	N	Hagiography	This is an almost purely partisan piece.  It is clear from the beginning how McDonald feels about his hero Hamilton.  For the most part, the work sickened me.  Hamilton is one of the most dastardly anti-liberty figures in  American history.  What most angered me about the work is McDonald's  unabashed libeling of Thomas Jefferson throughout the work.  It is sad that  such a brilliant and noteworthy scholar as McDonald must reduce himself to  blatant misinterpretations and smearing in order to elevate his hero into a  place that he does not deserve to be.  If you are looking for an honest  biography of Hamilton, I strongly suggest that you look elsewhere.	1999-10-16
US	51944702	R1CDUXLZY1EVFY	0812690699	175111709	The Machinery of Freedom: Guide to a Radical Capitalism	Books	1	15	85	N	N	Utilitarian Nonsense	This is one of the worst libertarian books out there.  David Friedman is one of those thinkers that makes libertarianism look bad.  In this work,  he presents the basic economic arguments against government intervention.   To say the least, his exposition left me *underwhelmed.*  In addition to  this, he makes many poor arguments for anarcho-capitalism, falling far  short of other more consistent, and not to mention intelligent anarchists  such as Murray Rothbard or even the Tannehills.  Furthermore, he makes an  almost humorous attack on natural rights theory, ultimately falling flat on  his face in the end.  Lastly, he turns what could have been the only truly  interesting part of his work, the section on ancient Iceland, into a  horribly absurd joke by making assertions concerning the importance and  quality of Icelandic literature.  In the end, this is a genuinely bad book,  and I would not waste my time with it.	1999-10-04
US	51944702	RNPGK4PUFCUID	0521586976	849935228	Bolingbroke: Political Writings (Cambridge Texts in the History of Political Thought)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Fascinating	Lord Bolingbroke is one of the most fascinating figures of the 18th century.  The works collected in this volume, most importantly his &quot;Dissertation upon Parties&quot; and &quot;The Idea of a Patriot  King,&quot; are undeniable classics of political philosophy.  Throughout,  Bolingbroke expresses a strong devotion to liberty and voices even more  severe criticism of government.  Yet, it is surely an odd mixture, as  Bolingbroke is indeed also a Tory, although, a rather Whiggish Tory if I  might say so.  The influence and significance of these works is hard to  overestimate.  In particular, they had a profound impact on the American  colonists, including such giants as Jefferson and John Adams.  Above all,  Bolingbroke was also a fine writer, and his work is a pleasure to read.	1999-09-25
US	51944702	R2UOT28X52T5PB	0140390154	29405017	Rights of Man (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	36	90	N	N	Founding Work of Modern Statism	This book, above all others, reveals the breakdown of classical (libertarian) liberalism into the statist liberalism of today.  Although the first part of the work, being a refutation of Edmund Burke's silly  nonsense, is stellar, and is well worth reading.  Regardless, the second  part, the chapter on &quot;Ways and Means&quot; in particular, is composed  of the most despicable, anti-liberty doctrines that one can find.  What  Paine basically proposed was a late 18th century form of the welfare state,  replete with progressive taxation, subsidies for child birth, and other  fine statist amenities.  Thus, as all of these things are, in his words, to  be claimed as rights, the title of this book comes to mean nothing  whatsoever.  It is indeed sad that Thomas Paine has gained such an enduring  legacy as a friend to liberty.  In truth, he is actually one of its worst  enemies, as he combines a just zeal for resistance to oppression,  revolution, and reason, he sabotages his entire political philosophy.	1999-09-24
US	51944702	RE8DZBG3HIXAU	0393006433	196392489	Education in the Forming of American Society	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Very Suggestive	Although this work is basically a broad survey of the sources on early American education, Bailyn makes some important suggestions that ache to be brought full circle.  He demonstrates how scholarship on this subject have  been marred by a tendency to view everything in the light of a gradual  progression to compulsory public education.  He also notes how this has  caused a large amount of distortions and myths to be created, with the  result of quite near everyone making absurd and innance assumptions about  the past.  Moreover, the true nature of education in early education has  been largely lost to the world, despite the fact that there are ample  sources waiting to be exploited.  This book should be especially  fascinating to anti-public education libertarians, who, of course, view the  growth of public education of the modern form as a serious regression in  society.  This work could serve as a starting point for a history taking up  the libertarian point of view; an invaluable undertaking no doubt.	1999-09-15
US	51944702	R2CHVC83LID0PU	0801815630	814002350	"No Standing Armies!" The Antiarmy Ideology in Seventeenth-Century England	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Captivating Study	This is a fascinating work covering a sadly neglected subject. Schwoerer does an excellent job tracing the antiarmy ideology from its infant state at the beginning of the century to its apotheothis at the latter end in the  works of John Trenchard and Andrew Fletcher.  In addition, she offers a  brief but solid account of the influence of these ideas throughout the  eighteenth century, with special emphasis on the American Revolutionaries.   It is truly unfortunate that this work is out of print, as it is virtually  the only thorough work on this particular subject.	1999-09-12
US	51944702	RI7USHGUIBA75	0814705839	989590516	Capitalism and a New Social Order (Anson G. Phelps Lectureship on Early American History)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Important But Flawed	Although this book is seriously burdened with deep mistakes and mischaracterizations, it is very important for its fundamental analysis of the Jeffersonian Republicans.  In sharp contradiction to the works of  &quot;Civic Humanist&quot; republican revisionists such as J.G.A. Pocock  and Lance Banning, Appleby portrays the Republicans as Lockean liberals who  support natural rights and flourishing commerce.  Although she mistakenly  attributes these ideas solely to Locke, she is right on the mark.  The  thrust of this argument comes at the tail end of the work, and much of what  precedes it is not worth your time.  Despite the fact that she rebuts one  application of the falacious Pocockian &quot;republcan&quot; paradigm, she  does  not have the background to realize that quite it is the theory itself  that needs to be disregarded, not simply its applications.  For instance,  she accepts Pocock's absurd assertion that John Trenchard and Thomas Gordon  were &quot;classical republicans,&quot; revealing that she obviously did  not examine their actual works, as they are loaded with very Lockean  concepts of natural rights and individualism.  In addition, she also  accepts the silly idea that the civic humanist tradition prevailed in  America until well into the Revolution itself.  To contradict this view, it  is only necessary to read the works of Bernard Bailyn, which she cites, but  appears not to have read in their entirety.  Lastly, she delves rather  deeply into the evolution of English society and economic thought,  something which might seem odd if not for her previous work on the subject.   Althought much of this is interesting, she ends up  setting forth a  narrative that presses the social and economic influences of the age  farther than is warranted.  Nevertheless, this work is one of the sole  pieces that can be found with an accurate and  reliable account of what the  Jeffersonians really stood for.  Hopefully it will open the way for more  work on this sadly abused subject.	1999-09-12
US	51944702	R22FFAEQC30P4A	0865971587	535624639	Lamp of Experience, The	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Fascinating Study	This book is a pure jem.  Colbourn presents an elegant treatment of the ideology of the Revolutionaries, with special emphasis on the role and use of history in their thought.  Perhaps the most captivating pieces are those  focusing specifically on John Adams and Thomas Jefferson.  In addition to  this, he includes actual listings of books in Colonial stores and  libraries.  Above all, this is an invaluable study for anyone interested in  this subject.	1999-09-10
US	51944702	RZTBSUCK5MG6J	0195023552	282183413	Adams and Jefferson: A Revolutionary Dialogue (A Galaxy Book ; 533)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful Little Book	This book is a brilliant account of the fascinating relationship between two of the most brilliant minds in American history.  It is a highly enjoyable read, and a welcome companion to the &quot;The Adams-Jefferson  Letters.&quot;	1999-09-07
US	51944702	R7GM34W13HH6B	0801492009	134667622	The Jeffersonian Persuasion: Evolution of a Party Ideology	Books	2	7	28	N	N	Deceptive Work	Although this work was officially written by Lance Banning, there is no mistake that it is an outgrowth of the theories of J.G.A. Pocock.  Essentially, Banning tries to make the case that the Jeffersonian  Republicans were the American version of Bolingbroke's &quot;Country  Party.&quot;  Moreover, he tries to demonstrate how the party advocated the  classical republican values of &quot;civic humanism.&quot;  Ultimately, the  book falls flat on its face.  Anyone acquanted with Jefferson, as well as  his party, should be able to see right through Banning's account.  Although  there certainly were classical republican elements in their thought, these  were only secondary and complimentary to the libertarian theories of  natural rights and individualism.  A more accurate (although still deeply  flawed) account is Joyce Appleby's work &quot;Capitalism and a New Social  Order:The Republican Vision of the 1790's.&quot;	1999-09-07
US	51944702	R1A5PBOWF11PBS	1560001313	228101833	A Better Guide Than Reason: Federalists and Anti-federalists (Library of Conservative Thought)	Books	1	9	115	N	N	Sorry Excuse For History	This book is a very poor example of scholarship.  Bradford attempts to impose his hackneyed ideological theory on the men of the revolutionary and founding generation.  He attacks such brilliant scholars as Bernard Bailyn  for having the audacity to base his work on reality.  In the place of past  interpretations, Bradford invents an almost laughable concept of &quot;Old  Whig&quot; thought, which in all truthfulness seems to have been made up  out of thin air.  I could go on and on about the horrible failings of this  work, but that is not necessary.  Instead, I will only point the potential  reader of this work to true works of ideological scholarship, those of  Bailyn, Gordon Wood, Caroline Robbins, H. Trevour Colbourn, Pauline Maier  et al.  While these works are not perfect, they are far superior to  Bradford's brand of puerile revisionism.	1999-09-06
US	51944702	R3KC1P6471BDHA	0930073053	15315168	Defending the Undefendable: The Pimp, Prostitute, Scab, Slumlord, Libeler, Moneylender, and Other Scapegoats in the Rogue's Gallery of American Society	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Solid Introduction to Libertarian Principles	Although many would describe this book as a &quot;hardcore&quot; or &quot;radical&quot; account of libertarian principles, there is nothing in the book that should be shocking or new to any consistent libertarian.  Its  main virtue is in its consistent and often even amusing application of  basic libertarian concepts.  I would say that anyone new to libertarianism  should read this book, but if you are already acquanted with the standurd  radical texts (Rothbard in particular) there is nothing very new here.	1999-09-06
US	51944702	R11CG74WMEXTKC	0873190238	621760535	Our Enemy, the State	Books	5	36	48	N	N	Secondary Considerations	In my previous review, I came down hard on Nock's use of Progessive, &quot;Beardian&quot; history.  Although I stand by my comments, I failed to mention what was really significant about this work, viz. Nock's  distinction between the &quot;state&quot; and &quot;government.&quot;  In  Nock's view, &quot;government&quot; can only be arrived at through the form  of Thomas Jefferson's decentralized system of &quot;ward&quot;  republicanism.  What makes this especially significant is that Nock is  virtually alone among modern radical, consistent natural rights  libertarians in his advocacy of government.  Basically, Nock is one of the  few consistent minarchists in history.  This makes this work indepensible  for any radical libertarian who sees grave inconsistencies in  anarcho-capitalist theory.  If one is truly interested in minarchistic  theory, I would also recommend a careful study of &quot;Cato's  Letters,&quot; the writings of Thomas Jefferson, the &quot;Political  Writings&quot; of Richard Price(published by Cambridge U. Press), as well  as any of the works of John Taylor of Caroline.	1999-09-05
US	51944702	R2GHMY8ICWU24Z	0945999380	363633120	That Every Man Be Armed: The Evolution of a Constitutional Right (Independent Studies in Political Economy)	Books	5	66	71	N	N	Profound and Important Work	This is one of the most profound works that one will ever come into contact with.  In it, Halbrook demonstrates the true meaning of the right to keep and bear arms, and why it is so vital to the maintenance of  liberty.  The basic equation that emerges from his discourse is that  liberty can only exist if a populace is armed.  In addition to this, he  delves into the constitutional, political, and ideological origins of the  Second Amendment.  Moreover, he demostrates exactly what the Amendment  means, what it was intended to imply, and what it still means today.  This  book is essential reading for everyone who wishes to defend the Second  Amendment and the right to bear arms.	1999-08-29
US	51944702	ROFT0V6ODIP1D	0964044714	397690092	Separating School & State: How to Liberate America's Families	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Profound Attack on Public Education	This is by far the best book on the subject.  Richman brings forth the full weight of both history and libertarian theory to completely dismantle and ultimately destroy any justification  for public education.  Even if  you already advocate the abolition of government systems of education,  there is still much knowledge and insight to be gained from this book.	1999-08-23
US	51944702	R31Q6VRATUH5UP	0865971048	567046488	Tyranny Unmasked	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Impressive Analysis	John Taylor of Caroline is one of the most brilliant political philosophers that America has ever produced.  This work in particular demonstrates a compelling critique of government interference in economic  matters that also demonstrates Taylor's firm grasp of political economy.   Above all, this book is an absolute joy to read.	1999-08-23
US	51944702	RA38EV8XGE60K	0691078602	333129440	Algernon Sidney and the Republican Heritage in England and America (Princeton Legacy Library)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Brilliant	First of all, this book is by far the best account of Algernon Sidney's thought that can be found.  Houston brilliantly analyzes his works and demonstrates just exactly what he stood for.  One comes away with a deeper  understanding and admiration for Sidney, even if you may have made careful  study of his works in the best. <br />In addition to the invaluable material  on Sindey's  life, thought, and influence, Houston also rebuts a great deal  of the Pocockian civic humanism/republicanism nonsense that has dominated   studies of early modern thought for the past few decades.	1999-08-22
US	51944702	R2TDM4AZIDN8EF	0911312331	997015934	Social Statics: The Conditions Essential to Human Happiness Specified, and The First of Them Developed	Books	3	26	33	N	N	Near-Brilliant Performance	If it were not for one mistaken aplication of his maxim, I would have to say that this is one of the most astounding, consistent exposition of libertarian theory in history.  However, Spencer is not wholly consistent,  and his main inconsistency is so important, that it cannot be safely  overlooked.  The lapse that I speak of is his absurd and anti-libertarian  position on the private ownership of land.  He believes that land cannot be  rightfully held in private hands, but rather that &quot;society&quot; owns  the land.  This indeed is an extremely specious piece of logic for a man  who upholds the rights of the individual over the &quot;state,&quot; the  &quot;majority,&quot; and &quot;society.&quot;  Not only that, it mars his  entire concept of a free society.  Otherwise, this work represents a  landmark in libertarian individualist thought.  His theory of &quot;equal  freedom&quot; is almost identical in spirit to the non-aggression maxims  utilized by thinkers such as Ayn Rand and Murray Rothbard.  His application  of of this basic axiom is also impressive.  He thoroughly any function of  the state beyond the absolute minimum.  Even further, he even acknowledges  the &quot;Right To Ignore The State.&quot;  Nevertheless, his views on the  private ownership of land are so out of line that I cannot honestly give  this book the degree of praise that it could have very easily earned.	1999-07-30
US	51944702	R4QGE0IT202K8	0393317528	136351509	Thomas Jefferson: An Intimate History	Books	1	48	69	N	N	Worthless Pseudo-History	This is by far the worst Jefferson biography on the market.  It is a piece of what is called &quot;psycho-history&quot; in which the author makes a wide range of unbacked assertions which are rooted in absurd and often  comical renderings of both Jefferson's words and actions.  The main body  Brodie's conjecture is refuted in Virgunius Dabney's excellent work  &quot;The Jefferson Scandals: A  Rebuttal.&quot;  If you are looking for a  real biography of the man, seek out the works of Dumas Malone, Merill  Peterson, or Noble Cunningham.	1999-07-22
US	51944702	R2V3HYNIU3GN30	0801847141	25317859	The Political Philosophy of Thomas Jefferson (The Political Philosophy of the American Founders)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Good	This work provides a good survey of Jefferson's political thought, as well as an excellent piece concerning the intellectual battle over the classical republican paradigm.  This piece, by the way, is well worth the price of  the book.  Nevertheless, although this is a worthy work, it pales in  comparison to David N. Mayer's &quot;The Constitutional Thought of Thomas  Jefferson.&quot;  If you are truly interested in Jefferson's political  thought, Mayer's is the foremost work on the subject.	1999-07-04
US	51944702	R33L9TH4ECAIZU	0399524487	610915589	What Would Jefferson Say?	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Incorrect and Misleading	Attention!  Sheldon's views of Jefferson's thought to not reflect on Jefferson's!  I could not believe what I was reading when I opened up this book.  I hought that Sheldon had at least a relatively firm grasp on  Jefferson's thought after reading his book &quot;The Political Philosophy  of Thomas Jefferson,&quot; I was sorely disappointed.  It appears that  Sheldon may understand what he thought, but is not able to translate it to  the events of today.  It is a shame that Sheldon failed in his effort,  because such a work as this, properly done, would be wonderful to see.  If  you truly interested in what Jefferson would think about current events  today, let me sum it up for you.  He would be outraged and saddened to see  what happened to the once great nation that he helped to found.  He would  be enraged at the tyrannical activities of our government.  As for his  political leanings, he would most certainly be a radical libertarian.	1999-07-04
US	51944702	R36074SEQ74F5L	081391485X	474485893	The Constitutional Thought of Thomas Jefferson (Constitutionalism and Democracy)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Excellent	This is indeed the finest study of Jefferson's political thought to date.  Unlike other authors, Mayer penetrates to the core of Jefferson's political philosophy, revealing him to be fundamentally a &quot;real whig,&quot; with  emphasis on his distrust of government.	1999-07-04
US	51944702	R2DHZTQV5WWMBE	0815603339	425840840	Our Right To Drugs: The Case for a Free Market	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Truly Excellent	This is a fine and brilliant book.  Szasz manhandles any pretext for government intervention in medicine and the market for drugs.  This is by far the best book on the subject.	1999-06-30
US	51944702	R1AALX32SQ1S7I	0873190238	621760535	Our Enemy, the State	Books	2	22	49	N	N	Good Principles, Bad History	To begin with, Nock makes an eloquent case for natural rights liberty and the criminality of the state.  His principles are wonderful, but his historical analysis is horrible.  He bases most of it off the perverted  works of &quot;Progressive&quot; historians, among them Charles A. Beard,  whose &quot;Economic Origins&quot; serves as the main basis of his  commentary on the Constitution.  Together with his mistaken history, he  also devolopes a misleading and destructive form of social class theory.   Despite this, the last chapter and essay in the appendix serve to redeem  the book somewhat.  I would recommend the work as a source of strong  libertarian principles and a solid indictment of the state( remember the  difference between the state and government).  However, I would suggest  that you might wish to supplement Nock's falacious historical view with  those of historians as  BernardBailyn, Gordon Wood, Pauline Maier, Carl  Bridenbaugh, and Forrest McDonald for a true analysis.	1999-05-05
US	51944702	R100EOEVRRWFY9	0930073010	646035626	The Market for Liberty	Books	1	11	85	N	N	Comical	The late Roy A. Childs, Jr., writing after he renounced his former anarchism, recommended this book &quot;as a very challenging one.&quot;  I think that he was wrong.  This book is not challenging in the least.  It  reveals anarcho-capitalism for what it truly is, absurd.  In order to  refute any notion of government and establish anarchy as the great  libertarian ideal, they make a long line of unsubstantiated assertions,  suppositions, and most of all, straw man attacks.  While they are quite  gifted at inventing straw men of their own, they also find it convenient to  use Lysander Spooner's straw man argument against constitutions.  Although  a thorough refutation of every mistaken aspect of this book would fill up  much more space than is available here, this book provides an easy remedy.  The authors, quite unwittingly, refute their own anarchist illusion.  Here  is a passage from Chapter 12.  &quot;Objective laws then, are rules, or  principles, which are the expressions of the nature of reality; they are  not the expressions of the subjective whims and prejudices of some person  or group of people or of a culture as a whole.  An objective law is reality  centered.  It springs from the nature of the entities and processes to  which it relates and can never conflict with nature.  For this reason, an  objective law always &quot;works,&quot; while a law based on subjective  whim, not firmly tied to reality, contradicts the nature of that which it  relates and so leads to confusion and destruction.&quot; As any Austrian  economist (including their fellow anarchist Murray Rothbard) would tell  you, the free-market is controlled by the subjective whims and desires of  consumers.  Thus, in an anarcho-capitalist society, law will be firmly  based on &quot;subjective whim.&quot;  Therefore, anarchy  &quot;leads to  confusion and destruction.&quot;	1999-04-10
US	51944702	R1ZAPRRI8GFOBA	0312214413	943071577	Freedom in Chains : The Rise of the State and the Demise of the Citizen	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Scathing Attack	This is by far Bovard's best work yet.  Although his previous works such as &quot;Lost Rights&quot; and  &quot;Shakedown&quot; primarily presented instance after instance of government oppression, in this work he manages  to tackle political philosophy on top of it.  The result is magnificent.   He completely disects the philosophy of statism and shows why it is  imcompatible with any semblance of individual liberty and self-government.   Statism is revealed to be nothing than a form of slavery and bondage.  But  what is really chilling is that Bovard makes it known that America has long  been under the statist spell and that liberty is being trampled upon  everyday by government officials and bureaucrats nationwide.  This is a  very important work that should be read by anyone who cares about what is  happening to America.  The time is now to recognize how far we are along  the road to serfdom before it is too late to turn back.	1999-03-21
US	51944702	R37L0IOTQF8GC	0865971315	622735355	Cato's Letters, Or, Essays on Liberty, Civil and Religious, and Other  Important Subjects (Vols. 1)	Books	5	59	67	N	N	Timeless Wisdom of Radical Whiggery	Cato's Letters are a must have for any lover of liberty.  They are filled with enough passion, wisdom, and wit to make them shining gems on any bookshelf.  The philosophy expounded in these letters is that of radical  liberty according to the laws of nature.  It is made clear throughout that  governments are the servants of people, not there masters.  The only just  role of government is to protect the life, liberty, and property of the  governed, any other role being usurped and explicitly tyrannical.  It was  this radical philosophy that made Cato's Letters such a huge influence in  America throughout the 18th century.  Their influence on the Revolutionary  generation is rivaled only by John Locke and his Second Treatise of  Government.  Above all, these letters are classics of reason and  resistance.  In my opinion, they are the best exposition of libertarian  principles ever written.	1999-03-16
US	51944702	R32QFX47EULRE9	0521467365	67100377	Sidney: Court Maxims (Cambridge Texts in the History of Political Thought)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Powerful	Until quite recently, this wonderful book was lost to the world.  Sidney was one of the most eloquent advocates for republicanism and liberty in his or any period of history.  This work offers a clear and direct exposition  of his political philosophy.  Although it is no substitute for his great  &quot;Discourses Concerning Government,&quot; it is certainly a worthy  compliment.	1999-03-06
US	51944702	R1GA0F4SPTPY33	1560003626	892740653	Secession, State, and Liberty	Books	5	8	12	N	N	A Must Have	This is an absolutely masterful book that deserves a great deal more attention than I fear it will ever receive.  It deals with one of the most overlooked issues in political theory, secession.  Although most people  think that the American Civil War settled the issue for all time, the  authors of this book beg to differ.  From a variety of different vantage  points and ideologies, secession is given the support that it so deserves.   Secession is rooted in individual liberty and any opposition ultimately  requires an outright act of force.  It is this crucial fact that much of  this book is based upon.  Issues of secession, past, present, and future  are all dealt with accordingly.  This book should be on the bookshelf of  every individual with a serious interest in libertarian political  philosophy.	1999-03-04
US	51944702	R3CKGEUKEH2TSN	0460873563	656404453	Two Treatises of Government (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	64	66	N	N	Philosophical Landmark	This is one of the most important works ever written.  In the Second Treatise, Locke lays down the theory of natural law and how it relates to the individual as well as to government.  Although he was not the first or  the only writer tp elaborate such a theory, his interpretation is clear and  eloquent, as can be seen in its use in the Declaration of Independence.  The First Treatise was basically a refutation of the now obscure  authoritarian work &quot;Patriarcha&quot; by Sir Robert Filmer.  Although  it is an interesting piece, it has long been rightfully overshadowed by its  partner.  If for some reason you are actually seeking a refutation of  Filmer, I would refer you to Algernon Sidney's more lengthy  &quot;Discourses Concerning Government.&quot;  By far the finest edition of  this work is Peter Laslett's, and I consider the purchase of any other  edition a sorry waste of money.  In his lengthy introductory essays, he  traces the historical,political, and philosophical background of John  Locke's life and ideas as well as the actual writing of the work itself.  His greatest contribution however, is proving that the work was written  well before the Glorious Revolution of 1688.	1999-02-28
US	51944702	R7I61DQ7XQRFY	0814775063	293858215	The Ethics of Liberty	Books	5	21	29	N	N	An Important Work Impossible To Ignore	This is a very powerful work to say the least.  Rothbard pushes natural rights and the non-initiation of force arguments to the full extreme.  Despite this, I still disagree with him on one major point; the necessity  of government.  Although the idea has only been lightly touched upon by  theorists, government is possible without any initiation of force against  the governed.  In fact, it is this ideal government that is the only  alternative to both anarchy and statism.  Nevertheless, Rothbard keeps you  on your toes at all times.  It is impossible to challenge  anarcho-capitalism without an indepth understanding of this book.   Ultimately, the premises of this book are virtually irrefutable, it is only  the conclusions that one may dispute.	1999-02-28
US	51944702	RIVNQRGXZ63RS	0521425611	951872425	Priestley: Political Writings (Cambridge Texts in the History of Political Thought)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An Overlooked Classic	Joseph Priestley is one of the greatest intellectual figures of modern times.  However, he should be remembered for more than just his great discoveries in the realm of science.  His &quot;Essay on the First  Principles of Government&quot; is a brilliant libertarian piece based on  natural rights philosophy.  He is a strong enemy of both established  religion and public schooling.  His eloquent advocacy of these positions as  well as &quot;freedom of thought&quot; as a whole is still very much  relevant today.   It is a shame that his works have been so overlooked in  recent times.  This work is yet another example of  how the wisdom of the  18th century is far greater than that of the 20th in many fields, most  importantly political philosophy.	1999-02-15
US	51944702	RN9R2UWVHJBTB	0945466102	636809103	What Has Government Done to Our Money?	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Another Masterpiece From Rothbard	In this short book, Rothbard reveals the long and disasterous history of government intervention in monetary matters.  He shows that the only way out is a policy of absolute free-banking.  Should be read along with his  &quot;The Case Against The Fed&quot; and &quot;The Case For A 100% Gold  Dollar.&quot;	1999-01-24
US	51944702	R26STBPS0LIFO0	094546617X	3708065	The Case Against the Fed	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Rothbard At His Best	Yet again, Rothbard exposes the truth.  In this slim volume, he explains both the history and the theory behind the Fed and Central Banking as a whole.  He is especially insightful on the inherent fraud behind the entire  system of fractional reserve banking.  The solution for the problem,  free-banking and a 100% gold standard.	1999-01-24
US	51944702	R29LW1MXJVW4V3	0945999739	230897465	America's Great Depression	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Brilliant	This is an astounding work.  One cannot claim to understand the causes of the Great Depression without reading this book.  The long-held and fallacious doctrine that blames laissez-faire capitalism for the boom and  bust cycle is allowed no standing whatsoever.  Rothbard clearly shows how  the government caused and horribly sharpened the Great Depression.  This is  a monumental work that deserves nothing short of deep admiration.	1998-12-24
US	51944702	RTBPUDOLU0UR0	0299075001	853297339	Patriot-Heroes in England and America: Political Symbolism and Changing Values over Three Centuries	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Fascinating Study	This is a very stimulating book dealing with a realm of history that I never really thought of previously.  Iniatially, I picked this title up becauseof the rare information on the great whig martyr Algernon Sidney,  but I was pleased to find the entire volume well worth my while.  I was  especially fond of the authors discussion of changing ideological cultures  and the popularity or lack thereof of statist and antistatist heroes.	1998-11-06
