US	51940677	R1PBADLFB7IIHG	0060515104	394934294	The Painted Drum: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The power of nature, music and storytelling.	While Louise Erdrich has long been a favorite author of mine, I will admit that approached THE PAINTED DRUM with a modicum of trepidation. Oddly, I had heard bad reviews of what turned out to be one of the most beautiful and satisfying novels I've read in a long time. I first encountered Louise Erdrich as the author of TRACKS and LOVE MEDICINE, novels I read for a college class and I have enjoyed her work ever since. In particular, I highly recommend FOUR SOULS, THE MASTER BUTCHERS SINGING CLUB and THE BEET QUEEN to anyone interested in reading more of her. Erdrich's latest offering is subtle, compelling, sophisticated and every bit as worthy of discussion and analysis as its predecessors. Much in the style of her other works concerning the Ojibwa tribe, PAINTED DRUM is a masterful blend of various voices and perspectives which creates a very pleasing overall drama without feeling jarring or disconnected. Erdrich deftly weaves images of love and nature, grief and loss, healing and music, family and loneliness, sacrifice and revenge, and tradition and need for self-discovery into a surprisingly cohesive narrative. Yes, there several stories involved in this book, but they interconnect marvelously and, as almost an added bonus with many of the characters (Fleur Pillager, Old Nanapush, etc.) of her previous works.  <br /> <br />In the novel we meet the wonderful Faye Travers, protagonist of the first and final sections of the novel) as well as a host of other characters including Bernard Shaawano, Old Shaawano, Anaquot, several young girls both living and dead, and the marvelous drum itself. The drum, in fact, is both a character and a theme which connects and bonds the entire cast of characters.  Representing healing, power and connection it is gives the novel it's chillingly beautiful conclusion. The other characters are painted in Erdrich's ineffable style: beautifully flawed and sympathetically compelling. Erdrich has a gift for creating such people - people at once ontologically removed from our lives and at one with our hearts. She deftly avoids any semblance of over-compensating for the tribulations of her tribe: her characters are too powerfully human to be pitied and there are no neither true villains nor two-dimensional heroes.  <br /> <br />One final note: Louise Erdrich is master at storytelling and, I suspect, a musician as well. As in THE MASTER BUTCHERS SINGING CLUB, music is a great force of bonding and healing within the lives of her characters. But it is worth it to approach both the power of music and the power of stories from less American-European perspective. In many cultures both music and stories hold great power, they exist both on their own and in our lives and are not necessarily something to be manipulated and controlled simply for pleasure. Keep this in mind as you read this novel. Characters, like Faye Travers who we meet as a first-person narrator share their soul and their thoughts while others, such as those we meet in Bernard Shaawano's stories, initially appear less in-depth. But that notion in deceptive, for there is power everywhere. Take note of this as well as her use of nature and animal imagery (especially trees, dogs, wolves and ravens) and you will enjoy this book much more deeply.  <br />	2005-10-05
US	51940677	R30L6135ZNAQVI	0471655171	776434320	Mean Girls Grown Up: Adult Women Who Are Still Queen Bees, Middle Bees, and Afraid-to-Bees	Books	4	41	42	N	N	It does not end in junior high school...	In her book, MEAN GIRLS GROW UP, Dr. Cheryl Dellasega, provides a comprehensive view of the uniquely female issue of Relational Aggression. She demonstrates how the bullying, gossiping, hurt, spite and often-vicious social hierarchy that exists in young girls (it reaches its peak in junior high) continues throughout adulthood. While RA or Relational Aggression becomes far more subtle in adults it continues to exist in the workplace, the club or organization, the neighborhood, the gym and countless other spaces where we spend our lives. In reading it I began to look at the social interactions around me with new eyes. While there are no longer mean girls (Queen Bees in the language of the book) surrounded by a gang of manipulative followers (Middle Bees in Dellasega's terminology) ruthlessly teasing the victim-outcasts (called Afraid-To-Bees), the paradigm remains. Bosses and leaders can bully while co-workers so-called friends can spread poisonous gossip or stand idly by while another woman is picked upon or mocked. However now these roles are cloaked in the so-called respectability of leadership and job descriptions. <br /> <br />But Dellasega does far more than merely bring these behaviors to light. Rather that simply showing her readers the paradigm, she attempts to show us how to change it. While the opening sections of the books are dedicated to exhaustive stories of RA (and sometimes some rather awful poetry as well), the latter portions deal with how to recognize, reshape and restructure our own roles in the paradigm. She reminds the reader that each of these rolls (Queen Bee, Middle Bee and Afraid-To-Bee) is the negative reaction to fear and insecurity and that through recognition, understanding and reshaping of our own behaviors we can begin to heal. In some senses, Dr. Dellasega gives us very little new information as to how to go about doing this. Concepts like raising awareness, positive visualization, mentoring, coaching, redirecting aggression, creatingpositive dialogues, seeking counseling, or simply knowing when to walk away are not particularly unique, but they are effective and Dellasega excels at creating examples and suggesting specific instances in which to use each technique. She delves nicely into personal situations and the book is peppered with stories gathered from her research. Her tone is more compassionate than scholarly and this book has broad (and personal appeal) to all women and all members of the spectrum of bees.	2005-09-28
US	51940677	R2YTBAP2XAEALW	0060819286	885338007	Backward-Facing Man	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Three and one-half stars for a crowded novel with moments of brilliance	The media reviews and press releases often describe Don Silver's BACKWARD-FACING MAN as the story of the agonizing disillusionment of the post-radical lives of three college students from the late 1960's.  But these characters, Chuck Puckman (the disconnected MIT student turned aimless co-partner in a failed family-owned company), Fredrick \\"Fergus\\" Keane (radical anarchist, former Volcano Bomber, and now fugitive from the law), and Lorraine Nadia (once the lover of both men) are the soul, but not center of the story. When the novel opens, Chuck is facing charges for an industrial accident in his family business, Nadia has just died in a hiking accident, and Fredrick is deep underground in hiding from the FBI.  And as the story progresses the nature of their complex relationships and the fascinating tale of their lives as political radicals is revealed.         BACKWARD-FACING MAN is not a straight narrative, but rather an artful jumble of characters, voices, perspectives, history (both real and re-imagined) and time periods. Many other characters enter the picture with varying degrees of success. First we meet Stardust, Lorraine's daughter, a rather endearing character who serves to provide a modern view of the story of these three people, but fails to develop as a character. We also meet Artie, Chuck's truly repulsive brother, and, for seemingly no reason at all, two FBI agents, John Russell and Eric Dodson. Finally there is Winnie, the writer-narrator of the story. Even Patty Hearst plays a role. And these are just a sample - honestly, it is a very crowded and noisy novel.         Each of these characters plays a distinct role in the plot, but I found that sometimes the multiplicity of perspectives distorted the narrative structure. For example, I found the passages dealing with Artie and his flight to Central America to be overly long and distracting and I quickly grew tired of the two FBI agents. Granted, the latter provided pertinent information regarding the activities of Chuck, Nadia and Lorraine in the late 1960's, but their personalities, background stories and general situation became a bit tiresome. Chuck and Lorraine are compelling characters and the portions of the novel set in the late 1960's and early 1970's are quite captivating. Even the narrative thread concerning Chuck's legal woes holds interest. But, quite frankly, other parts of the novel lag, short-shrifting the development of characters (such as Chuck and Nadia, about whom I wanted to hear) and favoring a multiplicity of minor characters I would have preferred to ignore.         BACKWARD-FACING MAN alternates between the first-person narrative voice of Winnie (a friend of both Lorraine and Patty Hearst) and a less distinct, third-person omniscient voice which occasionally takes on the tone of movie voice-over. As Winnie, Silver is engaging, compelling and often achingly beautiful. But unfortunately, Silver's complex narrative structure calls for perspectives that might not be visible to such a remote first person narrator as Winnie. The result is a novel perhaps stronger in plot, but a weaker in style. Overall, I enjoyed the book and would recommend it. It is a tale of loyalty and betrayal, loneliness and love, passion and disillusionment. It contains both moments of near-brilliance and a few flaws as well. I would give it three and one-half stars if I could. Try it, you'll certainly enjoy yourself.	2005-09-19
US	51940677	R1VBWUBGI0T7XP	0385730292	352609479	Rebel Angels	Books	5	49	52	N	N	As the story deepens the characters grow more interesting.	Libba Bray has lived up to my greatest expectations with her sequel to A GREAT AND TERRIBLE BEAUTY. More precisely, REBEL ANGELS is the second installment of what is proving to be a well-crafted and nicely plotted trilogy. In this second novel, we are allowed to see the lives of Gemma, Ann and Felicity outside of their finishing school (Spence) as well as outside of the realms. It is generally accurate upper-class Victorian world of dinner parties, teas and evenings at the opera spiced with the gothic-fantasy intrigue of magic and mystery. As I had hoped, Bray further develops her characters - and not just the endearing Gemma. We gain insight into Felicity, Ann, Kartik and even Gemma's brother, Tom. These characters become more complex and compelling as the story progresses and I would imagine that many of those who found the characters to be less-than likable in BEAUTY will find them more appealing. The central plot line revolve around Gemma's quest to find The Temple, now abandoned by The Order, and bind the magic that she freed in the first installment, but the subplots, including a budding romance, the health of Gemma's father and a particularly delightful scheme to present Ann as a member of aristocratic society are just as compelling as what goes on in the magic of the realms. Pippa returns as well, although even more mystery surrounds her new spirit-self. <br /> <br />I must commend Ms. Bray on walking a careful and thoughtful like between historical accuracy and pure enjoyment. While she takes a few historical liberties (for example, the freedom with which Gemma moves about in London), she seems to do so in order to maintain a sense of adventure that modern readers would be able to relate to. And, while still centering her novel firmly in the Victorian mindset (for example, Ann's distress over her future), she introduces some timeless and complex issues (trust, power struggles, racism, poverty, child abuse, self-mutilation) that modern readers face as well.<br /> <br />Above all, this is a novel to be enjoyed by teens and adults alike and I highly recommend it to all. My only negative comment (if you could even call it that) is that I strongly suggest that one read A GREAT AND TERRIBLE BEAUTY first and then move on to REBEL ANGELS. The plot is so intricate that it would be difficult to simply jump into the middle. Thanks, Libba, for another wonderful story!	2005-09-11
US	51940677	RE1L02XW8DVZ8	0312421036	998738670	Eva Moves the Furniture: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not Quite A Ghost Story	EVA MOVES THE FURNITURE is not a perfect novel, but it is rather compelling. It is not a ghost story in the traditional sense - although it is, indeed, about ghosts - for it is neither scary nor particularly eerie. Instead is reads like a 20th century fairy tale, full of beauty and meaning, but not terribly character driven. The ghosts (called \\"The Companions\\" in the novel) are mysterious yet utterly non-frightening and their interactions with Eva (the distant but endearing main character) vary from sweet to frustrating to poignant. This ghostly woman and girl follow Eva from her lonely Scottish childhood (set between the First and Second World Wars), through her adolescence and eventually throughout her adult life. Margot Livesy takes the reader on Eva's complete life journey and we are able to see her as a child, a puzzled high school graduate, a nurse, a girlfriend and a wife and, finally, as a mother. Through it all The Companions come and go exerting their subtly powerful influence on her life. Eva's mild adventures are tinged with a sort of bittersweet expectation that she will somehow find both the spirit of her mother (who died in childbirth) and fulfill some sort of nebulous destiny posed by The Companions. If I had any direct criticisms of this book it would only be that the characters are neither deep nor complete. I found myself wanting to know more of Lily and David (the aunt and father her raised her) as well as her husband and various other characters. However, I suspect that this apparent lack of character-development was very deliberate on the part of the author for what this novel lacks in intimacy it more than makes up for in overall and mood and tone. It is a beautiful and well-written fairy tale that is pleasing, albeit somehow slightly empty.	2005-08-24
US	51940677	R1W1LDDQAPA7IN	0743260031	297692250	Assassination Vacation	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Perfect Vacation	Sarah Vowell is the sort of person with whom you'd love to take on vacation: she's funny, self-effacing, and knowledgeable without being heavy handed. Such a trip would never be boring.  Reading ASSASINATION VACATION is rather like taking a small, educational vacation with Sarah except that you never have to navigate traffic, get lost on the way to some historic landmark or ferociously vomit over the side of boat bound for an abandoned prison. (All of which actually happen to Vowell, by the way.) Most readers agree that Vowell's book is neither precisely a history nor a travel narrative. Instead it is an experience akin to reading an episode of THIS AMERICAN LIFE - amusing, quirky and (in an extremely non-didactic way) educational. Vowell takes on a journey through an oft-forgotten slice of Americana - the assassinations and presidencies of Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley.  On the way we get to meet her often eccentric friends, her impossibly patient sister, her hilarious nephew and a host of fascinating tour guides and volunteers. Sarah takes her readers with her not only to the homes and gravesites of all three Presidents, but to equally fascinating and less obvious places that invoke their lives and the lives of their murders. Where else could one visit the home of Dr. Mudd, the man who may or may have conspired with John Wilkes Booth? Or the site of the Great Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo where McKinley met his demise?  Or even the Oneida Colony where Charles Guiteau lived in an unhappy and celibate state before setting off to kill Garfield? Somehow the author can make you want to visit all these places right by her side.     I will freely admit that, much like Sarah Vowell, I do have a bizarre and abiding interest in presidential assassinations and, therefore, enjoyed this book on that level. That being said, I would not hesitate to recommend this to those who neither know nor care that Presidents McKinley and Garfield existed (much less were assassinated).Vowell's borderline obsession with her subject melds with her meandering, conversational tone to make this book interesting for everyone. So whether you own your own copy of Stephen Sondheim's musical ASSASINS (as I, admittedly, do) or are barely aware that Garfield was a US President as well as cat, I promise that you will enjoy this book.	2005-08-12
US	51940677	R668SMUESY8VL	0743456629	654127754	The Dwelling: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An honestly satisfying ghost story.	THE DWELLING is a curiously satisfying ghost story that posses a quiet realism unusual to its genre. Susie Moloney addresses the issue of a haunted house which such grace and delicacy that one might suspect she has actually lived in one. What I mean here is that this book is chilling in the sense of late night conversations about creepy experiences. There is neither blood nor gore nor clichd moments of B Movie horror. Instead, there is a stillness and a great deal of supernatural tension. The climactic moments of horror happen \\"off camera\\" as it were - for Moloney cleverly shields the reader from scenes of violence and horror which might detract from the mood.   <br /> <br />The protagonist would be the house itself or rather, the disparate spirits which inhabit its rooms. In fact, the rooms itself are characters each of whom \\"stars\\" in his or her own story and makes cameos in the other sections. There is a tiny guestroom with a Murphy bed, a blue child's room with an insidious closet, a yellow bedroom filled with the taint of sickness and a rather morbid claw-footed bathtub - and each has a story to tell. The rather endearing real estate agent Glenn Darnley serves as the consistent human protagonist and the homes living residents (who come and go at a rather alarming rate) are likable yet mildly disposable. I enjoyed them well enough but the house itself is the most compelling element. <br /> <br />Moloney's writing is elegant and restrained - more Henry Miller than Stephen King. She rides the line between richness of explanation and substantial mystery. Most of all the book leaves you wanting more and I would truly love to hear more about 362 Belisle, its history and its future.  For those who enjoyed this complexly original novel, I also recommend JULIAN'S HOUSE by Judith Hawkes.  <br />	2005-08-05
US	51940677	R3CN415F8FCJG3	0375507256	851412948	Cloud Atlas: A Novel	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A Masterful Puzzle	Without a doubt, CLOUD ATLAS is one of the most innovative, ambitious and creative novels I've encountered in years. Admittedly, it takes some time and patience but for most readers it will prove to be quite rewarding and satisfying in the end. CLOUD ATLAS is six stories in a single novel. The stories and characters, which seem only loosely related at first, turn out to be subtlety and intricately interconnected - at least to the careful reader. For the first part of the novel, the action jumps forward in time until, at the end of the sixth story, where it begins to zip backwards. And it is there, at that moment of turning that the fascinating pieces of the puzzle begin to fall into place. Other reviewers have done a fabulous job chronicling the action of the plot, but very briefly and without spoilers... <br /> <br />\\"The Pacific Journal of Adam Ewing\\" both begins and closes the novel with the mid-nineteenth century tale of a Christian, hypochondriac at sea. Journeying back to his native California, the protagonist chronicles his illness and treatment (at the hands of the compellingly suspicious Dr. Goose) as well as the Mellvillian politics of an American Schooner. <br /> <br />The action suddenly jumps to the early 1930's in the utterly delightful \\"Letters From Zedelghum\\". This section, inspired by the relationship between the aging composer Delius and his assistant / amanuensis, Eric Fenby, is voiced through the droll letters of the imaginary composer Robert Frobisher to his best friend and one-time lover. Personally, I enjoyed this section and, as someone at lest mildly acquainted with classical music, must say that Mitchell does a mostly credible job with musical terminology and language. The first part of the Frobisher story features Robert's discovery of Ewing's journal and the latter part explains the title of the novel itself.  <br /> <br />Frobisher's friend, Rufus Sixsmith, leads us to the third section, \\"Half Lives: The First Louisa Rey Mystery\\" This isa standard, but well-presented thriller about a young reporter, Louisa Rey, who discovers what could prove to be a very deadly cover-up at a nuclear power plant. Unlike the first two installments, this section is written in third-person and almost appears to be a novel in and of itself. It is in this section that the reader is exposed to Frobisher's music.  <br /> <br />In fact, in the fourth section, \\"The Ghastly Tale of Timothy Cavendish\\", the Louisa Rey mystery IS a novel read by the whiney and ill-fated titular protagonist as he endures threats, strokes and a \\"One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest\\" type incarceration. In some respects, I enjoyed this section the least, but I will admit that it was, at times, quite funny. <br /> <br />The fifth section takes a familiar science-fiction theme: the enslavement of what at first appears to be quasi-humans and makes it entirely it's own. \\"An Orison of Sonmi-451\\" is, in some respects the heart of this novel. Somni is an endearing and compelling character who helps lift this story out of it's obvious debt to Auldous Huxley and Margaret Atwood and keep the reader enthralled. I loved her, I really did. <br /> <br />Much to my surprise I also loved the final tale, \\"Sloosha's Crossin' An' Everythin' After\\". Do not let yourself get bogged down by the language of this - just read it. Let the speaker's voice resonate in your head and soon you'll fall into the sweet rhythm of his story. It is here that the puzzle pieces fall into place. Notice the names, \\"Prescient\\" \\"Meronym\\", etc.  <br /> <br />As you read this watch for recurring motifs and appearances. Yes, the characters in the later stories encounter those of the earlier ones, but there are other interesting signs as well. For example, a temple mentioned by Frobisher makes a unique appearance in the world of Somni-451 and Ewing's ship appears later as well. Birthmarks, Swannekke Island and an animist place of worship appear several times as well. Themes of enslavement, elitism (both corporate and racial), pacifism, the role of the soul, and governments both good and bad swirl about this fascinating and well-crafted novel. As many have suggested, it is not a novel for everyone, but for the patient and the detective-minded, it is one not to be missed. I may not have enjoyed every section equally, but I truly loved the whole thing.  <br />	2005-08-01
US	51940677	R2N45EDRGQG7PJ	0399243577	924284291	The Whispering Road	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Tale (about Tales) to be Read Aloud	This is a story about story-telling and the power of stories themselves. The main character, Joe, is a story teller himself who lives through adventures worthy of the fairy-tales he tells and learns to come to terms with the power of truth and the power of tales. While that may sound confusing, the book itself is not. With its short chapters and straight-forward tone, this is a book that begs to be read aloud. It is the story of two young children, Joe and Annie, abandoned by their mother in a workhouse and how they flee the terrible farm they've been sold to in order to find freedom and possibly their mother herself. Along the way they encounter of a rich and varying cast of characters whose capacity for kindness and cruelty is reminiscent of Charles Dickens. Annie disappears for a great deal of the novel, but Joe remains a rather interesting character with a refreshingly honest voice. There is a not-so-subtle subtest to this novel: recognition of the plight of the poor and the injustices suffered by the downtrodden, but it is a worthy lesson to learn. In fact, this book might be a good antidote to kids' complaints about modern life.  <br /> <br />I was attracted to the wonderful artwork on the book jacket of THE WHISPERING ROAD and was only occasionally disappointed by the story. I wanted to see more of Annie, for example. While I would definitely hesitate to call this book a \\"fantasy novel\\", I would not hesitate to call it a true adventure and, in general, recommend it to readers young and old alike. Yes, it does have fantastical elements (for example Dog Woman or Annie's ability to see and speak to the dead), but its setting (Manchester, England and surroundings in the mid 19th century) is rooted in reality. And this reality is neither polished nor white-washed. In fact, some of the historical elements (disease, abandonment, quasi-slavery, death, street gangs, disfigurements, etc) are presented in a very realistic manner and I tend to agree with the reviewer whosuggested that this might be \\"too much\\" for some kids. For older children and adults, however, this book could be a grand adventure and I rather imagine than boys might especially love it. I would also recommend reading this book aloud with children for there are many elements that might require explanation or could lead to further discussion.  <br />	2005-07-15
US	51940677	RVSBU7H9DNWDF	0743267524	778315947	Faithful: Two Diehard Boston Red Sox Fans Chronicle the Historic 2004 Season	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Not What You Might Expect	Faithful is unusual baseball writing, but hardly a disappointment. I'll admit that I was eagerly anticipating this book not just because I am a die-hard Red Sox fan, but because I am quite fond of the writing of Stuart O'Nan. Not that there is anything wrong with Stephen King, mind you, but I've been a fan of O'Nan ever since I read \\"A Prayer for the Dying\\" years ago. I loved \\"The Night Country\\", \\"Wish You Were Here\\", and \\"Snow Angels\\" as well. That being said, \\"Faithful\\" is about baseball and, more that that, the Red Sox! <br /> <br />The most interesting aspect of the book is that it lacks any specific overriding narrative arc - especially the most obvious one - other than to treat the reader to what feels like live coverage of the entire season. Both authors skillfully resisted the urge to return to their earlier writings and imbue them with the nostalgic euphoria of describing a team who had just won the World Series. Instead, \\"Faithful\\" is presented as more of a play-by-play chronicle of the season as experienced by each man. When reading the book, it is best to keep in mind the fact that this book happened, just by sheer chance (okay, and some incredible ball playing that had nothing to do with the authors) to reflect the ultimate winning season. Just go with the flow of it and allow the excitement to build on its own. Also, do not expect what you might recall as the most memorable moments (for example, Manny's unexpected over-the-wall catch in Yankee stadium which robbed Miguel Cairo of his homerun) of the season to have a huge place of honor in the book. (Neither author recorded that game.) Rather, we get to join O'Nan and his obsession with catching balls (the net part is great) and learn of the reactions of the King clan to each and every trade. The two attended or watched nearly every game but may not have experienced it as each of us did, so perspective is everything. <br /> <br />Another unusual aspect of the book is the tone. \\"Faithful\\" has neither thedreamy, majestic, reverent tone of Roger Kahn or Ken Burns nor the woefully dry commentary of the average sports blog. The tone is far more personal - for example, King's wonderful commentary on the Yankee logo shaped crow poo on his car or his superstitious feelings about throwing out the first ball. \\"Faithful\\" is more like ESPN's \\"Baseball Tonight\\" crossed with something vaguely resembling what might happen if say, Mark Twain and John Cheever emailed each other about baseball. It is merely the one-season journey of two witty, literate individuals who take a team from Spring Training to the World Series in 400 pages.  <br />	2005-07-11
US	51940677	R2Y4RCP2BDVNSO	0743272943	9695968	Big Cats: Stories	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Don't Be Fooled By The Cover	Big Cats is one of the most genuinely enjoyable collections of short stories I've encountered in a long time. It's... well... fun! I picked up a copy at random and found myself hooked.  These are not \\"difficult\\" stories by any means, but neither are they anything close to \\"chick lit\\" (as the cover might suggest). Instead they are intriguing, thoughtful and surprisingly original. For example, \\"Charlotte\\", the opening story in which a girl with a broken pelvis spies on her neighbors has echoes of everything from \\"Rear Window\\" to \\"White Oleander\\" and yet it functions entirely on its own. The stories have remarkable structure and the action never digresses into rambling interior monologues. Thus a reader is well able to devour one in a short sitting.     Reinhart has a knack for voice and characterization in that all her characters, from young girls (for example, the titular and final tales) to Vietnam Vets (\\"My Name\\") to lonely, estranged women (\\"The White Dog\\" or \\"F--- You\\") resonate with the easer. Reinhorn manages to craft fascinatingly believable characters. In fact, I often found myself wanting to hear more about certain people. Perhaps some of these stories could become seeds for future novels, Ms. Reinhorn?     Perhaps the most striking thing about all these stories is the often startling realism both in terms of dialogue and descriptions. There is a degree clarity that renders reading these tales is a bit like watching short films in an art house theatre. You can almost cast and direct them in your head! That being said, each of these stories easily stands on its own as an engrossing tale of likable characters. It's more than a \\"summer read\\", but it really is a book to enjoy.	2005-07-06
US	51940677	RQFQD6V09YJNG	0385730284	443629566	A Great and Terrible Beauty (The Gemma Doyle Trilogy)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A masterful blend of fantasy, realism, history and mystery	Libba Bray has created one of the most fascinating young adult novel's I've read in quite a long time. The novel is a masterful blend of realism, mystery, fantasy and historical fiction and Bray proves herself quite adept as a writer of all three.  <br /> <br />Set in nineteenth-century India and England, the novel is generally quite true to the time period without sacrificing reader interest. The girls, including the protagonist, Gemma with her unconventional upbringing, genuinely act like young Victorian women rather than 21st Century teenagers in period dress as many novels and movies attempt to pass of as historical fiction. They are acutely aware of their virtues, positions and stations in life. For example, Ann, Gemma's dumpy, impoverished roommate has no grand goals and loft ambitions to be anything other than the nanny or servant that seems to be her final fate, while the lovely, but shallow Pippa seems equally sure that she her fate is sealed by her parents' ambition and her great, outward beauty. While neither character is particularly deep, they are both true to their time period and behave in a realistic manner. (For example, Bray does not paint Ann as a misunderstood, secret beauty - she is genuinely an outcast.) Only, Gemma and the fascinating Felicity have any depth and strength of character, but I suspect that Bray has other plans for everyone in the final two books of the trilogy. Felicity is intriguing in that she is almost hyper-aware of her position in life and the one most likely to use it to her advantage.  <br /> <br />The fantasy and mystery aspects of this novel are well-crafted and enchanting, but I will not delve into them too deeply for fear of creating a spoiler. I will say this, though, for a fantasy novel the characters have natural and realistic reactions to things. Pippa and Felicity first appear as the proverbial mean girls, but nothing they do is too out of line of unlikely. Ann is an outcast for a reason and Gemma... well... thatyou will have to see for yourself. This is definitely one of the best books aimed at the age group (or older) to come along in awhile and I cannot wait for the next one.  <br />	2005-07-06
US	51940677	R28BBYY9SNB4BV	0375701230	91189139	A Death in the Family	Books	5	22	22	N	N	More than Beautiful	This novel contains some of the most exquisite writing I have ever encountered. For those who enjoy the tender, glowing realism of authors such as William Maxwell, Marilynne Robinson or even Willa Cather, this novel will truly resonate. But A Death in the Family is more than just impressive writing - it is also the truly well crafted story of grief and loss told through the eyes of a series of family members. I read this in college and recall liking it, but the addition of the new pages brings the work into its own. From my understanding there are three distinct added sections - including the prelude. Admittedly, these added sections do not fit seamlessly into the narrative structure, but they each fit in arguably well with the tone and spirit of the work. It was quite obvious, at least to me, that Agee intended these incorporate these pages in the novel, but was unable to do so. (He died before the novel's completion.) <br />  <br />The plot, itself, is simple: the naked reactions of a family to the unexpected death of a loved one. But the amazing aspect of this is Agee's grasp of voice and perspective as the narrative moves from one voice to the other. We hear from the spiritually questioning wife, the pathetic, alcoholic brother, the bewildered near-infant daughter and Rufus, the infinitely interesting five-year-old son. Anyone who has actually experienced a death in the family will identify freely with at least one of the characters. Rufus is particularly fascinating in his struggle to understand the situation. He experiences the very real, yet rarely discussed, emotions such as pride for being the center of attention, boredom at not being allowed to go anywhere, and exasperation at his little sister. He is endearingly human - as are all the characters, really.   <br />  <br />Since this is hardly a \\"new\\" novel, I will devote the most time to discussing this particular edition. It begins with the stunning addition of \\"Knoxville, Summer 1915\\" which just may be one of the most beautiful and effective prose poems in the English language (By the way, if you're as taken with Agee's prose poem as I was you might want to listen to the fabulous Barber setting of it for soprano and orchestra. I highly recommend the EMI Michael Tilson Thomas conducting and Barbara Hendricks, Soprano although the Eleanor Steber version is beautiful as well.) The next is a darker, more surreal passage telling the story of a boy (Rufus, son of Jay) and the quasi-anthropomorphized darkness. It is at once touching, chilling, endearing and unquestionably effective. But the final added section is, by far, the strongest in terms of narrative. It is essentially two stories of Rufus: one, in which he suffers at the mercy of grammar-school bullies and one in which he meets his great-great-grandmother. Like the other added passages, Rufus' stories by no means move the action forward, but the section does add depth and insight into his character.  <br />  <br />A Death in the Family is a beautiful novel that is not merely a good read, but an experience to savor. On the \\"downside\\", the novel is placid and gracefully paced - honestly not much happens - but it is also heart-wrenchingly beautiful. If you're looking for a thriller this is certainly not it. Nor is it exactly comforting. Instead it contains a delicate spirituality of its own. It's a work of depth and beauty that is easy to enjoy.	2005-06-29
US	51940677	R2XKQ5NOTO638S	0375726578	736155299	Our Lady of the Forest	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Give it a chanace - especially if you've been to the Pacific Northwest	I always find myself reviewing books in which an author bravely attempts to follow-up on a best seller. And I always find myself giving the same advice: just try it - attempt to read it as if you've never picked up anything else by this author. With that in mind, David Guterson's novel, Our Lady of the Forest, is surprisingly successful. No, of course it is not Snow, but is does contain writing of that same graceful beauty. Guterson's prose is at times, so graceful, that he treads the very fine line of becoming overly precious, yet in Our Lady, the stark realism of his subjects prevent that from happening.  <br /> <br />Like Snow, Our Lady is also set in Washington state and, thus, will have great appeal to anyone having ever lived there. In fact, I highly recommend it to anyone who has. The backdrop of the beautiful, but economically devastated Olympic Peninsula is both painfully familiar and beautifully rendered and anyone who has lived in such a place (parts of the South spring to mind as well) will read the story with ears attuned to the unique pain of both loving and pitying a place. Guterson's characters are well crafted as well and all - from the world-weary, but Carolyn to the artlessly endearing Father Collins to gentle, damaged Ann herself capture the reader's hearts and minds. Best of all, this book is neither pro-Catholic nor anti-Catholic, neither accepting nor discrediting miracles. Instead, it is a novel about beauty and realism, hope and imagination.	2005-06-25
US	51940677	R2R2ANIKNCD5EQ	0375727132	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	This is NOT a spoiler but...	I was hesitant to submit this review because it virtually negates one of my cardinal rules of review writing: don't judge the book by the ending. But in this case I simply cannot help it. Packer is a talented novelist who has skillfully created characters who are at once very real and sufficiently endearing. In Carrie we find a young woman whose fears and yearnings, while perhaps not situationally similar to our own, remain universal. Her need to explore, to gain independence, to personally achieve and even to flee a ferociously claustrophobic and depressing situation (think of the Shin's song \\"New Slang\\") are clearly and intimately delineated. Her plight - caught between guilty obligation and the need to escape unhappiness really captured my attention. That being said, I hated - no loathed - no despised the ending. I wanted to hate Carrie for it, too, but someone could not bring myself to do so. Looking back on it, I believe that the disappointment I felt in the ending was a very deliberate choice on the part of Packer and I wonder if she really believes in the ending. Is it happy? Decide for yourself.	2005-06-24
US	51940677	RVEJ68Q7QPNIL	0802141293	66882361	Troll: A Love Story	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Magic Realism with a Scadinavian Flavor	Troll is an unexpectedly effective take on Magic Realism written in the spare, haunting tones of traditional Scandinavian literature. It is dark, disturbing, deeply psychological and a far cry from the typical fantasy novel. In fact, Troll, is not a genuine fantasy at all. As a reader, I was perfectly willing to accept the existence of trolls - not only because of the fascinating faux-encyclopedic inserts into the text, but because of Johanna Sinisalo's style. Like Isabel Allende's \\"House of the Spirits\\" or much of the short fiction of Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Sinosalo simply presents what could be taken as \\"magical\\" situations as if they were absolutely ordinary and mundane. (That is Magic Realism, of course.) Oddly, Sinisalo presents her characters in much the same light. \\"Real life\\" aspects which might be found surprising or alien to some readers (life in Finland, homosexuality, the existence of mail order brides) are presented with almost indifference. As a reader of gay fiction, I have to credit Johanna Sinisalo with writing one of the few novels in which the central character's sexuality is not an overt and defining \\"issue\\". Instead, Mikael/Angel is a believably crafted character who just happens to be gay. In other words, this is not a novel about being gay - it is merely a novel with gay characters. While there is a very definite, important and ultimately disturbing reason that Sinisalo chooses to center her novel around gay characters, she still manages to treat their sexuality as something exceedingly normal. (Which, of course, it is.)  But please do not think that my use of terms such as \\"ordinary\\", \\"mundane\\" or \\"spare\\" make this an ordinary novel, for Troll is far from it.  Troll was a fascinating, disturbing and entirely engaging novel that held my attention the entire time and left me with much to ponder it its wake.	2005-06-24
US	51940677	R2E3TGZ7KAL69X	0439339111	83361992	Zen Shorts (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	More than a beautiful children's book	This is a singularly wonderful book for children and adults. The illustrations are beautifully rendered - I particularly love the contrast between the \\"real time\\" pictures of Stillwater and his new friends and the more traditionally \\"Japanese\\" style pen and ink drawings of the Zen tales themselves. Stillwater himself is cute and appealing for young children, but the stories themselves are just as appropriate for adults and older children. While these are unquestionably tales that teach children valuable life lessons such as sharing and the dangers of anger, etc., they are just as thought provoking for adults and older kids. What I love most is that the stories in this book are not the bland, didactic morality tales that we hear endlessly as children but begin to question as we grow older. There are no obvious, simplistic answers to trite moral situations. Instead we are asked to think. In true Zen form, Stillwater (and, therefore, Muth) is neither preachy nor direct; instead, he allows the children (and the readers) to quietly consider the story and its implications. I am sure that we can all benefit from not hanging on to anger and from adopting a broader view of what we consider to be good or bad luck. Muth as given his readers accessible retelling of famous Zen parables packages in a beautifully appealing format.	2005-06-21
US	51940677	RT5WWJQUN1LAX	0374299625	440745925	Specimen Days	Books	5	10	13	N	N	It's not "The Hours", but please read it anyway!	Going into this novel my companions were several bad reviews and the achingly beautiful memories of \\"The Hours\\" and \\"A Home at the End of the World\\". In short, I was prepared to be disappointed. Instead I was surprised and completely enthralled. Cunningham's prose style is what it always is: brilliant, poignant and intensely engrossing, but his themes and vehicles are far more varies this time around. While the historical ghost story, the modern thriller and the sci-fi adventure my not individually appeal to all readers, the overall novel is quite effective. It is the story of three incarnations of a woman (Catherine/Cat/Catareen), a man (Simon) and a boy (Luke/Lucas). Each takes the lead in one of the three sections with Lucas in the first, Cat in the second and Simon in the final, sci-fi chapter. Skillfully interwoven with these three characters are recurring images and themes. Each story has a bowl, a horse, a fire, and, of course, the poetry of Walt Whitman. And each story deals with death, loss, fear, longing and redemption.     Unlike \\"The Hours\\" this new work is not the story of a particular author and his/her effect upon modern life. Instead, it concentrates more or less solely upon the latter. Do not go into this novel expecting to meet Whitman himself for he only makes the briefest appearance in the first section and do not expect to emerge from this more enlightened about Whitman as a person. That is not what \\"Specimen Days\\" is about. In fact, my biggest piece of advice to the reader is not to go into this book with any expectations at all. You may not love (or even like) every story, but bear with it for the overall effect. Honestly, I found the first section, \\"In the Machine\\", to be somewhat lacking in the brilliant intimacy that is pervades both \\"The Hours\\" and \\"A Home...\\", but that is not to say that I did not admire it. I understand how some readers found the first section to be a bit tedious, but please bear with it for the end is glorious. \\"The Children's Crusade\\" left me anxious and nervous, but that is precisely the point of a thriller. I enjoyed Cat a lot and find that Cunningham has a gift for writing of the intimate lives of women. An, unlike many readers, I thoroughly enjoyed \\"Like Beauty\\". Yes, Cunningham's futuristic vision may own some debt to previous sources but, honestly, what future vision does not? He still manages to make is feel unique and original - largely because of his masterful use of characterization.    \\"Specimen Days\\" may not be a perfect novel and it (especially all three sections of it) may not be to everyone's taste, but it is undeniably well-crafted. The structure of this novel is superb, the writing excellent and, in the end it leaves the reader with a sense of awe and satisfaction. Just try it.     New: For those who enjoyed this novel (and novels of this genre-bending type) I highly recommend THE CLOUD ATLAS by David Mitchell.	2005-06-20
US	51940677	R3CNJAFWFSHVKK	1400062314	9571448	Prep: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not Another Teen Novel	Like the movie Napoleon Dynamite, Curtis Sittenfield's debute novel, Prep, can be a pleasant surprise. This is not to say that Prep is uproariously funny, but what might initially appear to be aimed toward a fairly shallow, teenage audience actually has edge, depth and a much broader appeal. You certainly do not have to have attended an elite prep school (which I didn't) or even to have lived on the East Coast (which I did) to appreciate the genuine angst, passion and poignancy of the story. Also, like Napoleon Dynamite, Prep both uses and disables stereotypes to enhance a story. Yes, there are moments of quasi-triteness (a scene, for instance, in which Aspeth, a wealthy, beautiful junior, attempts to use her influence on the protagonist to win an election), but for the most part, the characters are painted with a uniquely workable blend of realism and nostalgia.  <br /> <br />That is also not to say that Prep is precisely nostalgic. The fact that Curtis allows her protagonist to narrate the story from some point in the not-overly-distant future (perhaps her mid to late twenties) gives the story some depth and adds realism. Lee is neither entirely nostalgic (as say a narrator gazing back at her prep school days while safely ensconced in her autumn years might have been) nor overwhelmed by her present angst and anxiety (as a narrator in real-time might have been). Instead, Lee is allowed to examine her life at boarding school from the comparatively safe distance of her post college years - a time in which brutal self-examination of high school is both likely and honest. In that honesty, we come to trust her as a narrator. Lee displays her own shallowness, her tendencies toward snobbishness and her foolish, blatant worship of those she perceives as the being the school's elite. She is class conscious in the way that only high schoolers can be yet she speaks from a slight distance. Her tone suggests a dual reality: yes, this is truly the way things were but, no, she nolonger harbors these feelings of angst and anxiety. Lee has grown past all of that and is not afraid to present the readers with her true self. And for that we like her. <br /> <br />We may even relate to her. Be it the time period (the mid to late eighties, perhaps), her alienation (both real and self-imposed), her middle-class background, her awkwardness, attitude or something even more abstract, there is something very \\"real\\" about Lee Fiora. I could certainly relate to her and I rather imagine (whether they will admit it or not) that most readers will. Prep is not a perfect book, but it is a good, honest, well-written story that may come as a surprise to many readers.	2005-06-11
US	51940677	RVG95FDU9NOKM	0446533297	462898886	The Effects of Light	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Thought Provoking and Good for Book Groups	This is an excellent book club book- or even a novel to be read and discussed in artistic circles. Many reviewers have noted that this book falls closer to non-fiction that to fiction and, to a good extent, I agree. Part of the joy of this novel lies in the artistic analysis and the discussions it provokes. What is the nature of art in relationship to society? What is the role of the artist within society? To what extent is the artist responsible for the reaction of his/her works? What is the role of the subject within the artistic process? These are all questions evoked by the story of Myla, Pru and their family. Despite the fact that it can be a bit thematically overwhelming at times, THE EFFECTS OF LIGHT is a novel in which the story itself takes center stage. Beverly-Whittemore is a writer of lovely and lyric prose, but her tone simply serves to advance her themes. And although you grow to enjoy the characters, it is far from a character study. The characters themselves are reasonably well-crafted and likeable - I particularly enjoyed the voice of the dead Pru, although I rather disliked the character of Samuel - but there is none who are so compelling/hateful that they interfere with the discussions of art. In short, this novel serves as a gigantic, well-written object lesson (or illustration) to provoke discussion and consideration.	2005-05-27
US	51940677	R1KF8WROJAEMGS	0802139841	369125314	Bear Me Safely Over	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A Crowded Novel from a Future Filmaker	For a debut novel Sheri Joseph's BEAR ME SAFELY OVER is impressive and she is obviously a very gifted writer. The novel is an imperfect, yet well-intentioned glimpse into the heart of love, pain, fear and forgiveness in rural Georgia. Joseph is a beautiful writer who I believe has secret talent as screen writer for art house films and at times the novel reads very much like a screenplay. Characters develop either visually (through scenes of action or inaction)or through the eyes of other, often more peripheral characters. While this adds depth and interest to her characters, it can also lead a bit of confusion and lack of sympathy on the part of the reader. For example, we mostly see Paul through the eyes of his friend (Sidra), his father, his love interest, his step-mother, his brother, etc. - or we see him distanced through a fuzzy third person lens. And we see even less of other characters such as Sidra and, sadly, her endlessly fascinating dead sister. The novel is crowded with characters and voices which are deftly interwoven. While this can be mildly overwhelming it is certainly entertaining and enjoyable. I was left disliking Curtis, longing to hear more of Alice, questioning Sidra and rooting for Paul - but that's just me.	2005-05-26
US	51940677	R3FYTCE8WLW7KH	0312424094	315724223	Housekeeping: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Novel Like A Good Meal	Have you ever had one of those meals in which you savor every bite and watch with growing dread as the portion shrinks from your plate? Well Housekeeping is the literary equivalent of such a meal. Robinson's language is rich, dynamic and filled with such incredible beauty that I found myself pestering my poor husband by reading selections prefaced by phrases like, \\"Oh... listen to this, it's soooooooo beautiful.\\" He listened dutifully and remarked that I, ordinarily a fast reader, was taking my time with this book. I was - and for good reason: Housekeeping is a novel to be savored.  But it is more than that - it is genuinely a good story. While not terribly fast-paced or action-packed, it is a delicate character study that intimately engages the reader to a variety of characters. Virtually every character fascinated me on some level: Ruthie, Lucille, their dead mother, their pair of elderly aunts, Sylvie and even the town of Fingerbone itself is a richly drawn character. While I'll admit, it helps that I have lived in the Pacific Northwest and have an affinity for the landscape; familiarity with Idaho is by no means a requirement to enjoy this book. Housekeeping is simply a novel to savor, love and enjoy.	2005-05-26
US	51940677	R233SUG5XTQSLM	1560256117	233352377	The End of Gay: And the Death of Heterosexuality	Books	3	20	22	N	N	Mixed views	I had decidedly mixed feelings about Bert Archer's book. I agree with his assertion that we, as humans, do not possess a decidedly fixed sexuality. I can easily see his point that sexuality is not static, but instead has a more liquid. Maybe it is even part of a process. Archer is about polymorphous sexual desire and a complete lack of labels. On the surface, I agree, but on a deeper level, I feel that Archer ignores the deep human need for identity, love and possibly even monogamy.     Archer's ontology leaves little room for marriage or long-term commitment and he constructs a paradigm privileging desire over love. While I have no doubt that attraction is polymorphous and that we all experience differing levels of desire for different people (and types of people), I would like there to be something deeper. I am left with the feeling that, in Archer's universe, attraction is all there is. He ignores the fact that it may be within human nature to seek love (or that even some sort of transcendent love exists) and find happiness with a single individual (no matter what the gender of either person). As a supporter of gay marriage, I find Archer's arguments to be somewhat disturbing. Perhaps I am just overly romantic, but I believe that there is a deeper love, a higher purpose and something more than dating and/or serial monogamy.     Yes, I would love to live in a world without labels, but I am also aware of the intrinsic need to acceptance and identity. Making statements such as \\"I am African-American\\", \\"I am gay\\", \\"I am a football player\\", or \\"I am Jewish\\" brings us a sense of ourselves and a group with whom we can possibly identify. Ostensibly, removing such terms as \\"gay\\", \\"straight, \\"homosexual\\" and \\"heterosexual\\" from our vocabulary (and from society itself) would bring about acceptance. But it might also bring about a loss of identity to the gay community and an even further loss of some beautiful and necessary movements of advocacy and concern.     I am not reacting entirely negatively to Bert Archer's book. I found it funny, refreshing and a wonderful read, but I simply have a few concerns about his theories.	2005-05-25
US	51940677	R21QSEIRJD5CMM	0865715408	218947445	Crossing the Rubicon: The Decline of the American Empire at the End of the Age of Oil	Books	5	35	40	N	N	Socio-political Vitamins	This book is the literary equivalent of taking your vitamins: difficult, necessary and at times a bit hard to swallow. Yet, overall, it is ultimately good for you and eventually makes perfect sense. It is the polar opposite of a fun read but, at the risk of sounding clich, this book is potentially life changing. Very few things I've read can truly be said to cause an ontological crisis, but Ruppert's work certainly does.  <br /> <br />I fully admit that I went into this book a skeptic, but I emerged convinced.  Reading this leaves one feeling alternately depressed, frightened and overwhelmed, but the end result is socio-political enlightenment. Michael C. Ruppert is clearly an intelligent, thoughtful, detail-oriented researcher and my only criticism (if any) is that he is so detailed and well-researched that the result is occasionally overwhelming. Warning: Ruppert rather assumes and intelligent, politically literate audience, so you may find yourself running to your computer or library to do a little research of your own. But that is actually a positive thing, for it provides a certain amount of outside corroborative evidence and reassurance to the reader. That is the true beauty of this book: Ruppert has done the research, presented the evidence and made the arguments, but you can verify things for yourself. The chilling fact is we are running out of oil, the government is aware of it and terrible things have resulted from this knowledge. Read it for yourself, this is necessary reading for all Americans.  <br />	2005-05-25
US	51940677	R2YXJTIYJE57VE	0670033944	748214467	The Mermaid Chair: A Novel	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good, but not even close to The Secret Life of Bees	As a novel in and of itself, I have nothing against The Mermaid Chair. It is beautifully written, thoughtful and very pretty throughout. But despite Sue Monk Kidd's keenly sensitive observations about married life and the need for personal empowerment, this novel does not even begin to approach the splendor of The Secret Life of Bees. This new novel is lighter and centers around romance, difficult choices and the gamut of feminine emotions. The marvelous aspects of self discovery and the revelation of past history are still present, but they are slightly tainted with odor of bored, middle-aged woman suffering from empty nest syndrome. Compared to Lily of Bees, Mermaid's Jessie is vapid and selfish. That is not to say that she really is so and, if I'd never read Kidd's first novel, I would probably love her. But I found that I could not. The portions of the books where Jessie discovers the truth of her past are fascinating and well-rendered, but the romance simply did not work for me.  <br /> <br />My advice is to read this book first or, if you've already read The Secret Life of Bees, to approach The Mermaid Chair with a fresh, unbiased perspective and an utter lack of expectations.   <br />	2005-05-24
US	51940677	R2PVLREKYD5N64	1582345082	570121918	The Line of Beauty	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Post Modernist James	The Line of Beauty is an extraordinarily well-crafted novel with a nearly flawless story arc (hmmm...perhaps a metaphor in and of itself?) and what could be called a perfectly paced plotline. It is Jamesian more in scope than in tone with a rich, diversity of characters inhabiting a world that is subtly complex. Each conversation is fraught with subtext. Hollinghurst's intricate world of sex, drugs and politics in the 1980's is treated with the same curious blend of compassion and detachment that Henry James used nearly a century earlier. It is a world at once familiar and foreign and, while Hollinghurst's view is deliberately Post-Modern there still remains a Jamesian sympathy toward even the most unlikable of characters. While I can understand how a reader might initially regard the characters as being a bit unsympathetic, after finishing the novel, I completely disagree. Yes, at times, these characters appear to live lives that seemed rather vapid and lacking in meaning and direction, but it is essential to keep in mind that that depiction is a deliberate choice by the author. Like James, Hollinghurst creates a rarified world where moral and ethical values exist in a world entirely apart from the reader. (Well, at least the average, person not hailing from a fabulously rich and politically embedded London family.) Like James, Hollinghurst presents his characters intimately, yet objectively - without judgment or undue color - but this does not mean that they are in any way unsympathetic. By the final pages it became nearly impossible not to feel for Nick and, in fact, nearly all of the characters. Without giving away too much, there is a nearly overwhelming sense of alienation and sorrow that is so beautifully rendered that the reader cannot help but reinterpret the story that precedes it. Oh, and as to what one reviewer referred to as \\"needlessly graphic gay sex\\" and another referred to as \\"sexy\\" the choice is yours. Personally, I found it to be the latter, but if it not your thing, it will only serve to increase the sense of genteel estrangement Hollinghurst's world provides.	2005-05-24
US	51940677	R227R98NJCL90H	0375502254	598809884	On Green Dolphin Street: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Pretty but not all that pleasing	Although I was not even alive in 1960, this book does much to evoke the flavor of that year in my imagination. This was my parents' generation and every page of this book was redolent of their habits and mannerisms. I found myself engrossed in the setting, avidly lapping up the sensitive details of music, dress, politics and culture.  <br />That aside, the novel did not entirely work for me. Despite the sheer beauty of the final chapters, this is not Faulks' best work. While he tried to five the reader insight into the lives of the three main characters, their emotional portraiture was a little thin. This is especially true for the first three-fourths of the book which features some rather puzzling and possibly unnecessary flashback scenes. In all honesty, I found it difficult to sympathize with Frank and Mary until the final chapters of the novel.  <br />Yet, that all changes by the end. The final chapters are thoughtful, luminous, and extremely moving. I will not give away the ending, but I will simply say that I found myself in tears and running to hug my boyfriend. It is not an ending that one can easily forget. <br />	2005-05-24
US	51940677	R3PVINQCYAZ790	0743418719	768832350	Salem Falls	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fun, but flawed	\\"Salem Falls\\" is readable, likeable and decidedly unspectacular. Picoult masterfully weaves a suspenseful plot, yet the entire novel somehow manages to disappoint. Perhaps it was her somewhat flat portrayal of Jack, the main character. Despite having a rather intimate understanding of his situation, I found him to be a listless and uninteresting character.  <br />Or perhaps is was the rather trite manner in which Addie, Amos, Gillian and many of the other characters were crafted. Many of the images and characterizations seem overly dependent upon a twenty-first century sensibility. I often distrust novels in which the character portrayals are laced with media references and clich images of current fashion and I found the four young girls to be very much to that effect. References to Alanis Morissette and electric blue nail polish may not withstand the test of time.  <br />On the other hand, I appreciated Ms. Picoult's lack of negativity toward Wicca and her openness towards the possibility of magic. Although the love interest sub-plot did not work for me, those moments of \\"magic\\" rescued the novel from becoming overly trite and predictable.  <br />Such assets and flaws aside, I'll admit that read the book happily eagerly to discover the outcome. One cannot help being drawn into the story. It was simply a \\"fun read\\". <br />	2005-05-24
US	51940677	RLZGS6MZ9W3H2	0671776134	362447474	Plain Truth: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Her Best So Far	In movie terms, this book might be a cross between \\"Witness\\" and \\"The Accused\\" with a few overtones of \\"Agnes of God\\", but, all in all, it works. Jodi Picoult's novel, The Plain Truth was intriguing and, frankly, one of her best books yet. It provides a gentle, yet unbiased portrait of genuine Amish life while avoiding a great deal of sentimentality. I particularly enjoy fiction that allows me to gain insight into another culture and Picoult's novel accomplished just that. The complexity of Amish life is surprising and provides a fascinating background for a well-crafted story.  <br />Although the main character, Ellie, occasionally drifted into the realm of the stereotypical, Picoult's characters were generally well crafted and believable. A reader cannot help but like Katie, the Amish girl central to the mystery. Even the romantic aspects, including a rather sweet and tragic love triangle involving Katie, her Amish boyfriend and a man from the outside world, was believable and moving. As far as character development and romance are concerned, this is Picoult at her best.  <br />Perhaps the novel's greatest virtue is Picoult's examination of the culture of justice and the contrast between the Amish and standard American view. The concepts of truth, justice, forgiveness, and the human perception ran as sub-text throughout the novel, making it a far deeper and more interesting book than any of her others. I enjoyed it very much. <br />	2005-05-24
US	51940677	RDPETWFDNPGD4	B0001PBYRC	386796565	My Wars Are Laid Away in Books: The Life of Emily Dickinson	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Academically Valid Without Being Dull	I began this book with trepidation, for I find myself slightly suspicious of literary biographies finding them to be either too sensationalized or reductive or too academic to be interesting to the average reader. This is a well-researched volume that does not read like a doctoral thesis. But Alfred Habegger manages to discover a delightful balance between scholarly research and public readability.  <br />I adore Dickinson and was impressed with the manner in which Habegger handled his subject. He presents her with the complexity and intellectual approach toward she deserves. Emily Dickinson appears as neither the bizarre recluse nor a misunderstood sexual being of some of her previous biographies. If, as some readers have found, the poet appears a bit unresolved and incomplete, it is only because Mr. Habegger wisely chose NOT to sensationalize his book with unsubstantiated presumptions as to her personal life. I enjoyed the author's scholarly, non-sensationalist approach to Ms. Dickinson and found that it did not prevent me from \\"knowing her\\" as a person or subject.  <br />One of Alfred Hebeggar's greatest strengths is his realization that no artist exists in a vacuum. He presents to his readers the complex outer world that inspired the poets rich inner world allowing us to draw many of our own conclusions. Meticulously researched and gently paced, the book is a journey not merely a chronicle of a single life. Instead, it is an insightful look at the entire Dickinsonian world of family, academics, and petty town politics. Habegger introduces the reader to the poet's entire extended family and the emotional movement within it. He allows the reader to truly see the social and political environment in which the poet lived. And that is fascinating in its own right.  <br />Overall, I enjoyed the book very much and appreciate Alfred Hebeggar's unique ability to strike a balance scholarship and authorship. He is never condescending, yet he explains thoroughly. He treats the reader as an intelligent person with a mind eager for historical details and biographical accuracy and he treats his subject with respect and intellectual dignity. His book is academically valid without sacrificing the art of solid writing. <br />	2005-05-24
US	51940677	RNIGRGFDZZXIM	0060988649	696052457	Lost: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Delight For Those Who Loved To Read As Children	Without question, Lost is a novel designed to delight those who, like Winifred Ridge, the main character, had childhoods steeped in British literature for children. As she moves through the story, Winnie delights the reader with an array of quotes and references ranging from Charles Dickens to Kenneth Grahame, Lewis Carroll and Edward Gorey.  <br />As with the majority of his adult novels, Gregory Maguire infuses well-known literature (The Wizard of Oz in the case of Wicked and Cinderella in the instance of Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister) with modern settings and sensibilities. It may even have become his trademark. Yet with Lost, Maguire takes his thematic material further into a synthesis of multiple stories and factual events (A Christmas Carol, Peter Pan, suggestions of Jack the Ripper just to name a few) creating a richer, deeper level of story telling.  <br />The novel is as character driven as Wicked, and again Maguire paints a touchingly human and flawed character as he created with Elphaba and I grew to love Winnie is much the same manner as I did the witch of Wicked. But Lost is a somewhat more complex and ambitious work than Confessions or Wicked and it requires more of the reader. It functions as a mystery novel on both the supernatural and psychological levels and never failed to keep me entranced. Yes, the ending is thoughtfully indirect and demands a bit of detective work from the reader, but that is simply a part of the charm. I found Lost to be thoroughly spooky, captivating and enjoyable. <br />	2005-05-24
US	51940677	R2ZMJFSAVGM17J	0345450892	431887144	The Lake of Dead Languages (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Literate, but Imperfect Mystery	While being rather predictable, Carol Goodman's novel of mystery and intrigue in an east coast boarding school delivers an entertaining read. For a mystery novel it rises above the genre in its literary expectations of the reader. One might even call it a literate mystery. Jane Hudson, the main character is sympathetically rendered and the girls are likable enough, yet something seems to be missing from the book. It lacks a cohesive sense of motion. Goodman's forte is certainly in the set-up. She creates interesting characters and an intriguing plotline, but then descends to a somewhat trite, formulaic conclusion. I enjoyed the first two-thirds of the novel, but felt slightly dissatisfied by the ending. Still, it is an enjoyable book - and a mystery that does not make you feel as if you've sunk to the level of genre fiction.	2005-05-24
US	51940677	R19AV6BGWN7EFA	0385479484	944864152	The Short History of a Prince: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	More Accessible Than Ruth	Without question, Jane Hamilton is one of my favorite authors (who could not be moved by \\"The Book of Ruth\\"?), but in \\"A Short History of a Prince\\", Hamilton rises to a new level of exquisite characterization. Hamilton's graceful lyricism is present as always, rendering the book a charming read whether or not you enjoy the plot - but it is nearly impossible not to do so. Anyone who has every participated in the arts, or at least coddled an impossible dream, can relate to the plight of Walter. In a world in which, tawdry, but uplifting \\"feel good\\" books crowd the shelves it is refreshing to read of one who struggles with a dream, fails to achieve it in the physical sense, and yet triumphs internally. Hamilton gently reminds us that true grace lies in humanity and true achievement in how we deal with others. It is a novel about subjects far deeper than dance and far more human than death. It is a novel about life.  <br />Hamilton is a master of characterization. Ruth Grey and Matt (of \\"The Book of Ruth\\") are prime examples. But it is the character of Walter that stands out in my mind. He is one of the most fulfilling gay characters I've encountered in literature, proving once and for all, that literature with a gay central character need not be solely concerned with sex and relationships. Instead, Walter is a complex, lovable and slightly pathetic (in a good way, mind you) man who must deal with the real life tragedies of death in the family and unfulfilled dreams.  <br />I enjoyed \\"A Short History of a Prince\\" far more than \\"The Book of Ruth\\" for several reasons. Partly because it was slightly easier to digest in its general lack of violence and dismal poverty, but mostly because I found Walter to be a character closer to my heart and self. I am not a gay man, but I felt more kinship with Walter than with Ruth. He is less specific than Ruth, more middle class, artistic and introspective. In short, he is me. <br />	2005-05-24
US	51940677	RKWTPV61N3XW8	0679772588	650961142	Time Will Darken It	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Beautiful, memorable landscape	This was truly one of the most beautiful novels I've ever read and I would not hesitate to call it my favorite book. The title is taken from an excerpt from an art book describing techniques of landscape painting and that is exactly what the novel is: a richly, landscaped view of life. Maxwell's imagery leaves the reader feeling such a part of the world of Elm Street that it is truly heartbreaking to leave it and return to the present. Maxwell's use of light and shadow is outstanding and even the slightest and most obscure of characters (as well as inanimate objects and even insects) are crafted with intimate details. Everyone seems to have voice, color and emotion. There is an artistic term called chiaroscuro which describes the contrasts of shading of light and dark within a painting and that term encapsulates the book as well. Maxwell's characters are rendered clearly, but without moral judgment - there is no right and wrong or black and white. In it's place are a thousand variations of emotional color. While not a novel of action - admittedly not much of great consequence actually takes place - this is a novel of intense beauty and outstanding characterization. The images and emotions evoked in the novel live on in the imagination.	2005-05-24
US	51940677	R1IPX7T1X2VY3G	0743237188	434448992	Fall On Your Knees (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Beautiful, Brutal and Honest	MacDonald's novel is forcefully lyric and (sometimes morbidly) compelling, yet perhaps its chief virtue is the graceful brutality and humanity of her characters. From the haunting and poetic opening paragraph, the novel drew me into the circle of the strangely entrancing Piper family. I've heard the novel compared to a traffic accident, but such a description implies distancing oneself from the novel. I found myself enmeshed far more deeply in the lives of the characters. MacDonald paints unflinchingly honest, yet touching portraits of James, Materia, Kathleen, Mercedes, Francis, Lily and the rest of the population of the novel. Each character is fascinating as an individual and, despite considerable character flaws, sympathetically portrayed. I've rarely encountered a novel in which the characters are so fully rendered that they are at once understood and embraced by the reader. \\"Fall On Your Knees\\" cannot fail to remind the reader that there is no human perfection in this world, only the beauty and savagery of the human spirit.	2005-05-24
US	51940677	R3G0M8IWB9LI58	0805061479	277559952	A Prayer for the Dying: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Engaging, fascinating but hardly  fun.	Rather like a bad auto accident, this book is both magnetic and repulsive. It is far from an enjoyable read, yet I found it to be one of the most emotionally gripping books I've ever read. O'Nan's skillful imagery at once  ensnares the reader in this sorroful, sunlit world of Jacob Hansen and  presents the entire picture of the events.  Even without the use of 2nd  person, I would have felt a part of the town of Friendship. It was a most  disturbing and &quot;horrible&quot; novel, but I loved it.	1999-06-28
