US	51942755	R2R1M02O1ND9HO	0380806436	376951240	Partisans and Redcoats: The Southern Conflict That Turned the Tide of the American Revolution	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Makes a good point, but overstates his case...	Most military histories of the American Revolution focus on the \\"great\\" battles, and give scant attention to recounting other, lesser engagements. However, those lesser engagements are often the best way of depicting the harsh and divisive nature of the war. In the Carolinas, for example, the war took on many aspects of a civil war within a war, as Loyalist militias, stiffened by British soldiers, took on Rebel militias in a brutal, back-country partisan conflict.  <br /> <br />This book attempts to describe that slice of the war by highlighting one engagement within it. That small battle, prosaically named \\"Huck's Defeat\\" (after Captain Christian Huck, the Loyalist officer who lost his life in the fight), was the first Rebel victory in the aftermath of the fall of the city of Charleston, and it is the opinion of the author that the importance small militia engagements like this one are overlooked. Huck's Defeat, and several subsequent victories by partisans and militia units, convinced most locals to side with the Rebel forces and oppose the English. This, in turn, kept South Carolina in the war, and ultimately led to the Rebel victories of King's Mountain and the Cowpens. The rest, as they say, is history: the British were forced to leave the state, marching down a path that led to Lord Cornwallis's surrender at Yorktown.  <br /> <br />While making a good point - that these lesser back-country battles were important and are often neglected - Edgar overstates his case. \\"Huck's Defeat\\" was a very small battle indeed: 115 Loyalist and British soldiers vs. ca. 250 Rebels, and lasting no more than an hour. The loyalists were massacred, but unless the Revolutionary cause in South Carolina truly hinged on this one engagement (i.e. defeat would have meant the end of resistance in the colony), then it was simply one particularly bloody skirmish among many.	2005-01-13
US	51942755	R2DC1RN4QU5B24	0449003604	922864570	The King's Coat (Alan Lewrie Naval Adventures (Paperback))	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	New Naval Hero, New Hook	If an author sets out to pen a new swashbuckling, age of sail novel, he finds himself in the unenviable position of having to measure up to the works of C.S. Foreseter and Patrick O'Brian. To make these stories engaging to a reader that has already consumed perhaps dozens of swashbuckling naval adventure novels, the main character has to have a hook that makes him stand out as unique. The hook for Lambdin's Alan Lewrie is so simple, I'm surprised that it is new: Lewrie is teen-aged rake and libertine, and \\"The King's Coat\\" blend the staples of the naval adventure with the borderline pornographic style of a cheap romance novel. <br /> <br />The results are lurid and earthy, perhaps more \\"Moll Flanders\\" on the gun deck of a man of war than God, King and Country. Lewrie's sexual adventures put a new twist on the role of being the King's man in the 18th Century, especially when compared against the chilly and self-conscious Hornblower. Indeed, Lewrie makes me think of what the lusty Mr. Midshipman Aubrey who got himself turned out among the common hands for keeping a whore in the focsle must have been like. Those in love with the details of nautical life in the age of sail should look elsewhere; Lambin's prose shares a disdain for such matters similar to Forester's; he is no O'Brian. The novel's feel for action borrows a great deal from Alexander Kent's Richard Bolitho novels. Lambdin's main innovation is in his ribaldry. <br /> <br />The result is an earthy novel detailing the adventures of a promising young swashbuckling officer entering HM's Navy in 1780. The story is enjoyably precisely because the characters are so human. If you are a fan of this kind of fiction, give \\"The King's Coat\\" a try.	2005-01-06
US	51942755	R1HBPIIQPDTVPP	0802714242	262474049	The Amber Room: The Fate of the World's Greatest Lost Treasure	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Art History as Thriller	In the early 18th Century, Prussian ruler Frederick I presented Tsar Peter the Great with a truly unique treasure: meticulously carved amber (then worth twelve times its weight in gold) that had been expertly assembled into enough wall panels to decorate an entire room. The beauty and value of the amber aside, as a work of craftsmanship the Amber Room was remarkable: imagine trying to repeat the same feat entirely from a single type of gemstone! The panels were assembled and re-assembled by the Romanovs, eventually finding a home in the Catherine Palace near St. Petersburg. There it remained until the Nazis stole it at the opening of the siege of Leningrad in 1941. The Nazis \\"returned\\" their ill-gotten prize to its city of origin, Knigsberg (now the military enclave of Kaliningrad). It is from Knigsberg where the Amber Room disappeared at the end of the war.  <br /> <br />This is where authors Levy and Scott-Clark (\\"The Stone of Heaven\\") begin their book, exploring the efforts of various German and Russian parties to determine the fate of Russia's greatest lost treasure. Taking the reader through the spadework of securing and reviewing archival materials from former Soviet and East German archives, the result is a highly entertaining work of non-fiction that thoroughly illuminates both the mystery of the Amber Room and the issues involving works of art stolen by various parties during the Second World War. The missing amber panels became something of a Cold War propaganda football, being pushed back and forth between the Soviets and the West (West Germany in particular). The result is that \\"The Amber Room\\" reads very much like the kind of non-fiction thriller that would involve Cold War espionage, except that instead of military secrets or mole hunting, the book is about missing art. It is filled with tales of betrayal, intrigue, cynical careerism, and bureaucratic stalling that are often absurd, but always frustrating. <br /> <br />Like a real thriller, Levy andScott-Clark include a real twist in theirs. As it follows the various investigations, the book seems to be leading towards a particular explanation, but ultimately the authors turn the story back on itself and return to the first theory regarding mysterious fate of the Amber Room. While their theory cannot be proven yet, their thought-process provides a certain dramatic edge to this work where espionage meets art history.	2004-11-15
US	51942755	R1KWO65361B3WD	1586482491	236101738	Masters of Chaos: The Secret History of the Special Forces	Books	4	47	51	N	N	solid military journalism	Linda Robinson has penned an impressive and highly readable work of military journalism. \\"Masters of Chaos\\" chronicles various operations the U.S. Army's Special Forces over the past 15 years through the eyes of the Special Forces operators. Those operations include El Salvador, Panama, counter-drug operations, both Gulf Wars, Afghanistan, Bosnia, Kosovo and Somalia. Still mostly secret, even after the author's investigation, is their work with the FBI after September 11th.  <br /> <br />The theme of the book is the sheer skill and maturity of the men who make up the Green Berets. Unlike other special operators (such as Marine Force Recon, SEALs, or the Rangers), the Green Berets are more than just commandos. Robinson shows them engaging in raids, functioning as crack light infantry, and most important, performing their primary role: organizing and training local friendlies into viable military forces. The author clearly has deep admiration for the Special Forces, and drives home the vast pool of experience and skill embodied in even a single A-Team. Robinson's writing is crisp, and she brings out the drama of the many Special Forces operations in pleasing style. <br /> <br />My only complaint with the book is a relatively small one, and is directed at whoever makes marketing decisions at Public Affairs: what is with the title of your book? \\"Masters of Chaos?\\" I know it is a quote drawn from the text, but combined with the two bearded-and-ballcapped operators on the cover, I could not help but make an instant association with heavy metal. Beavis and Butthead were literally chortling in my head. Furthermore, since the main theme of the book is the judgement, poise, maturity and professionalism of America's corps of unconventional warriors, \\"chaos\\" has very little to do with it. Adaptability and self-control are the two over-riding personal themes of the text. <br /> <br />Anyway, that is a very small gripe, but I hope someone from Public Affairs reads it. Get yourself a copy of this enjoyable book.	2004-10-18
US	51942755	R377PMWFZWOGB9	0765306549	610367143	Render Unto Caesar: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Good light reading for fans of Rome	This fine work of historical fiction set in the Rome of Augustus. Hermogenes, an Alexandrian Greek and trader, travels to the capital city to settle a deeply personal matter involving a debt owed to him by a powerful \\"new man,\\" the presiding consul Tarius Rufus. Hermogenes's uncle was ruined and his father met an accidental death because of this debt, and Hermogenes stubbornly pursues its redemption. Unfortunately, Rufus is both arrogant and desperately concealing the fact that he is in bad financial straits, and plots to have Hermogenes eliminated to conceal his secret. <br /> <br />Without giving too much more of the plot away, the result is an entertaining tale that takes the reader inside the travails that even a wealthy foreignor would encounter trying to speak to power in ancient Rome. The book is at its best in the way it handles slavery. Slavery, and in particular the relationships between masters and their slaves, saturates the book. As a fictional examination of slavery in Augustan times, it is an excellent work and is a highly entertaining story. <br /> <br />I found myself only able to give this novel three stars mostly because of my difficulty in classifying it. I disagree with \\"Publishers Weekly\\" in that strictly speaking, I do not regard this novel as a thriller. In thinking of how to specifically recommend it, I found myself hard put to do so in any terms beyond good historical fiction; I wonder how much appeal it would have beyond those of us who treasure the Greco-Roman world? I kept thinking that while this audience would find the novel very good indeed, anyone else would probably find it dull.	2004-10-06
US	51942755	R39LGUA36MTSWE	0802714374	229256149	Wellington's Rifles: Six Years to Waterloo with England's Legendary Sharpshooters	Books	4	22	23	N	N	The Greenjackets	Most readers will be familiar with the famous greenjackets of the 95th Rifle Regiment through Bernard Cornwell's \\"Sharpe's Rifles\\" series. This is ironic because, while Sharpe and his core followers are soldiers of the 95th Rifles, the 95th itself appears only in the very first novel and then the Waterloo installment. Therefore, this profile of the regiment should have an instant audience among fans of the popular Cornwell serial who are curious about the famed, hard-fighting outfit that lends Sharpe so much mystique, but appears very rarely in his adventures.    Mark Urban has not strayed very far from his previous work, \\"The Man Who Broke Napoleon's Codes,\\" a profile of the Duke of Wellington's intelligence chief. In his history of the 95th, Urban details their participation in the campaigns of the Peninsular War of 1809-14, and then at the climactic battle of Waterloo. However, the 95th built its reputation in numerous engagements with the French stemming from outpost duty, vanguard and rearguard actions, raids, and the storming of fortresses. As an elite light infantry unit, they participated in most of the major battles of the Napoleonic British Army, but were never at the center of such set piece action. Paradoxically then, the Rifles saw considerable action without being front and center at any famous battle.    That considerable action makes the book exciting to read, and Urban ably weaves a story of Napoleonic soldiering through the personal experiences of a wide cast of characters, ranging from lowly privates to the Light Brigade's (later Division's) founder and first commander Brigadier \\"Black Bob\\" Craufurd. Heroism, chivalry, and honor stand side-by-side with privation, shirking and floggings in Urban's honest storytelling.    In an afterword, Urban outlines the rise of several officers of the 95th (and the larger Light Division) into the ranks of the general officers, how they came to dominate the mid-19th Century Royal Army, and how the Rifles tacticslived on to permeate the tactics and methods of that Army. The 95th Rifle Regiment itself lives on in the Royal Army (along with the sharpshooters of the 60th Royal Americans) as HM's Greenjackets, and their adventures live and breath in the pages of Urban's excellent book.	2004-09-17
US	51942755	R3W4IYTNRZNPLD	0393060020	708846688	War And The American Presidency	Books	3	17	22	N	N	Cogent, but rambles at the end.	Arthur Schlesinger's foray into Bush-bashing comes rather late, but is perhaps the most interesting example yet published. Schlesinger is probably best known for \\"A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House,\\" and it is his reputation as a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner and august presidential historian that will attract readers otherwise repelled by the glut of partisan books, pro and con, about the George W. Bush administration. Rather than re-hash ground already well-trodden by other authors, in this collection of essays Schlesinger sticks with his forte and looks at the Bush Administration through the lens of the revived \\"Imperial Presidency\\" (a phrase Schlesinger himself coined). The result is a collection of Schlesinger's thoughts, part of which tell a very different story about the Bush Administration emerges from this shift of focus from character and policy to historical place and precedent. This different story is both a new and an old one. <br /> <br />It is an old story, in that \\"unilateralism\\" is as old as the Republic. The tradition of unilateralism in American foreign policy is often muddled through the use of the term \\"isolationism.\\" Schlesinger reminds us that the point of America's original school of foreign policy was never to turn inward and isolate America from the world (as China did in the 15th Century), but to avoid foreign alliances and entanglements. The history of pre-Wilsonian America is not one of a country eschewing foreign affairs altogether, but one of a country avoiding foreign commitments. Even Bush's aggressive twist to unilateralism is not especially new, as the 1846 Mexican War should remind astute students of history. The shift towards internationalism is relatively new, beginning only with and sustained by the Cold War. Schlesinger sees this and places the modern Bush doctrine of unilateralism, and especially preventative war, into this perspective.  <br /> <br />Schlesinger reminds us that Bush's enhanced political power is also nothing new. Schlesinger's phrase \\"the Imperial Presidency\\" was the title of his book about the Nixon Administration, and has since become a basic concept in American political science: when confronted by a foreign crisis, the Congress dumps enormous power into the hands of the Presidency. The modern twist on this came about through the sustained crisis of the Cold War; prior crises had been of a much shorter duration. This imperial accumulation of Presidential power during the Cold War continued until the abuses of the Nixon Administration caused a backlash and restored some sense of balance in the political system. The threat of global terrorism after 9/11 has brought about the resurgence of the Imperial Presidency. <br /> <br />Although it is a generally sober and often insightful work, the book does suffer from some editorial flaws. In the early chapters of the book, Schlesinger addresses just how important the character of the Attorney General can be during times of crisis in determining how civil liberties are handled. However, he later devotes a whole chapter later to \\"Patriotism and Dissent in Wartime.\\" His discussion on Attorney Generals and their relative merits would have been much better if it had been consolidated there, in particular his frank disapproval of John Ashcroft. <br /> <br />It is in the last two chapters that the subject matter seriously diverges from the chosen topic. While they sometimes make for interesting reading, \\"How to Democratize American Democracy,\\" \\"Has Democracy a Future?\\" and \\"The Inscrutability of History\\" do not really belong in a book entitled \\"War and the American Presidency.\\" \\"How to Democratize American Democracy,\\" a brief history of the flawed workings of the Electoral College and consideration of how to reform it, is the best. The other chapters are speculative in nature and are, in a sense, contradictory. One looks at the problems facing the future of democracy, the other points out the limits of using history to speculate on the future. One wonders why the author would place those two side-by-side, let alone in a historical examination of War the Presidency during wartime. These final chapters - especially the latter of the two - have the feel of being hastily tacked on. <br /> <br />While the book comes to a rambling conclusion, there is much merit to the particular approach taken by Schlesinger his criticism the Bush Administration. Unlike the books of Michael Moore, Al Franken or Paul Begala, Schlesinger's work is not a comedy. Nor is it mere angry partisan bile. It is a cogent historical analysis. While the book reads much like a man's musings on a small variety of topics, the musings and the man make them well worth reading.	2004-09-08
US	51942755	R2ZR8KL37ZWVGM	1560255625	471713951	Rogue State: America at War with the World	Books	2	10	11	N	N	A truly mixed work...	Veteran journalist T. D. Allman attacks the Bush administration's ideology, actions, and very legitimacy in this fierce critique of its first term. While a powerful and passionate work, it has its failings and ultimately fails to impress. <br /> <br />\\"Rogue State\\" begins by analyzing what Bush's \\"theft\\" of the 2000 presidential election. For Allman, the case is clear: the Nixon-appointed Chief Justice, political hack and noted racist William Rehnquist disregarded democracy and acted in blatantly partisan ways to bring about Bush's presidential victory. However, the case really is not so clear, and while Allman scores well on certain points, he also stumbles badly on others. For example, when discussing the 1876 election, he focuses entirely on the partisan line vote (and tie-breaking vote of the Chief Justice of that time) of the Congressional-appointed Electoral Commission. He completely omits that this election took place in the midst of Reconstruction. Historically, comparing 1876 to 2000 is like comparing apples and oranges, and in trying to make the 2000 election seem like a clear-cut theft with historical parallels, he only misleads his readers and insults those of us who might be better educated about American history than he supposes we might be. He also makes much of the supposed unconstitutionality of the Bush-Cheney ticket (the Constitution forbids both electors to vote for two candidates from the same state). However, I would place the blame for allowing this to fly on cowardly Democrats making only a token effort at blocking Cheney's candidacy through the courts. In fact, they could have raised this issue again in 2004, but did not. In our system, it is up to the political opposition to make things like that stick. <br /> <br />He goes on to mock what he sees as the perversity of Bush's choice of Dick Cheney as vice-president, dismissing him as a hatchetman, and cataloguing both Cheney's and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's \\"acquisition of unelectedpower and money.\\" Once again, Allman scores heavily but also stumbles badly. He invests a great deal of capital in portraying Cheney as accumulating vast unelected power. However, he fails to reconcile this with the middle of Cheney's career as the sole Representative of the state of Wyoming. He tries to make Cheney's never seeking elective office again sinister, but who can characterize campaigning on a Presidential ticket as not seeking elective office? Moreover, after being Secretary of Defense, Cheney was supposed to return to being a mere Representative in the House? Run for Governor of Wyoming? Wait for a chance to become the junior Senator from Wyoming? Allman's description fits Rumsfeld very well, but Cheney barely at all. <br /> <br />The book is littered with mixed results. He characterizes rogues like Wolfowitz and Perle very well, but once again stumbles badly on Condoleeza Rice. He dismisses her as an intellectual lightweight, but offers no substance to back up that characterization. If I personally know of Rice as a medicore intellect, it is because numerous friends of mine experienced her firsthand at Denver University and Standford. I do not know of it because of Allman's book, and by failing to back up his invective on this point he can only generate sympathy for the open-minded and critical-aware reader. <br />  <br />Allman is very on target when he analyzes the Bush Administration's political strategy as being one wedge issue after another, including in foreign policy. He has enough insight to see that the Bush Administration is not alienating most of our traditional allies accidentally in pursuit of their goals, as some commentators think: alienating them in the name of unilateralism IS one of their goals. However, the principle problem with his book is that it is halfway to being the leftist version of a book by Ann Coulter, Rush Limbaugh or Sean Hannity. It is full of hatred, anger and contempt, and is often not entirely truthful. <br /> <br/>The great power of Democratic or leftist propaganda books is that they are very often both solidly factual and very funny. Being based solidly on fact makes them hard or impossible to refute on the issues. Being funny makes them approachable and attractive to the unconverted. The only people who enjoy tracts like Allman's are people who already agree with him, and it is perhaps a good thing that this book has not received more attention. I am sure Al Franken, Mike Moore, and maybe even Paul Begala would be bludgeoned with it whenever they appeared at an author's event. I hate Bush as much as the next guy, but this book does the cause no service whatsoever. Thankfully, it also does not seem to have done it any harm.	2004-08-27
US	51942755	RVZS3SRWCR2I8	0684865106	627941369	Lone Star Rising	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interested in Texan history? Read this first!	In \\"Lone Star Rising,\\" William C. Davis has produced a comprehensive and thoroughly readable history of the Texas Revolution of 1836.  Most history buffs will be familiar with Davis from his numerous appearances in cable television historical specials, including the A&E series \\"Civil War Journal.\\" However, he should be equally well known from his vast body of work as a popular historian. This latest work is another strong demonstration of the prolific Davis's talent for producing readable, approachable works of insightful history. <br /> <br />The land-hungry dream of carving the Texan lands away from Mexico dated from the 1820s, but Davis begins even earlier, ably and entertainingly building up the setting for the 1830s. The attention paid to the preceding history yields significant dividends later in the book. For example, by the time Davis reaches the 1836 Revolution and the infamous massacres directed by Santa Ana, we already understand why such bloodshed was almost certain to occur. The narrative introduces us to the harsh Spanish tradition of how to deal with rebels. Also, when the narrative reaches 1836, the author has already painted decades of plotting Americans engaged in piratical-if-hapless invasions, aimed at seizing the province of Texas. To the Mexicans, the 1836 Revolution looked like just another frustrating, outrageous attempt by the gringos to steal their land. <br /> <br />The book's timing coincides with the summer release of Disney's \\"The Alamo,\\" and it delivers on many of the points where the film fails. \\"The Alamo\\" promised us the Mexican side of the story of 1836; Davis's book actually delivers. In this, the book is superior to previous accounts. While he does not neglect the Texan pantheon: the stolid, conservative Stephen Austin; the unscrupulous Jim Bowie; Sam Houston, the scheming drunkard; and the fire-eating William Travis. Davis also calls attention to the often-neglected tejano (the Spanish-speaking Mexicans who had long lived in Texas) leader Juan Seguin. At last, the tejanos play a central role alongside with the American immigrants (\\"Texians\\"). Furthermore, the convoluted story of Mexican politics vis--vis the Revolution finally receive their due. Antonio Santa Anna, a fascinating character who is too often reduced to the role of a tin pot dictator and villain, also receives full attention.  <br /> <br />Davis has penned a successful work, depicting how three very distinct groups of people struggled over both the land and the idea of what would become Texas, and how the Americans eventually triumphed. He avoids making an argument in favor of simply telling a story, and unlike his predecessors he tells a complete story. Consequently, the book reads as a new take on a very old story. It should become a major work among the popular histories of Texas.	2004-08-24
US	51942755	R36N13XH1W9FQM	0935526595	315640613	Form Line of Battle! (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 9)	Books	2	9	12	N	N	What I've Come to Expect from Kent...	I started reading Alexander Kent's Bolitho novels because I had exhausted Forester's and O'Brian's respective series, and in doing so I had developed a strong appetite for age of sail fiction. Kent's series, by comparison to the former two, is sadly lacking.    The Bolitho series is a serial in the literal sense. This is the ninth novel I have read, and so far they have all followed the same general boilerplate plot. In some of these novels, even the sub-plots repeat themselves: the romance in this novel is a straight carbon copy from \\"Passage to Mutiny.\\" In this respect, the Bolitho series is very similar to Cornwell's Sharpe series.    This would be acceptible, for a good story can be repeated dozens of times if you develop the characters and keep it fresh with new twists. New twists he does offer on occassion, but Kent fails miserably in character development. There are few continuing characters in the series, and none of them are better than two dimensional. This is a sin he shares with Forester: the only continuing character in the Hornblower novels is William Bush, who is not much more than Hornblower's shadow throughout the series. Stockdale, Herrick and Allday are all mere ciphers. After nine novels, even the tertiary characters in O'Brian's series have received more attention.    Kent also stretches credulity at times, and makes a number of historical errors. This book shows Bolitho in command of a 74 gun ship of the line, supposedly armed with 18 and 24 lbs cannon. The two deckers of the late 18th Century, however, usually carried 18 and 32 pounders as their primary armament, a fact that Kent is well aware of because he says so in his own newsletters. It is reminicent of a similar blunder in \\"Sloop of War,\\" where Kent mounts 32lbs cannon as chasers on an 18 gun sloop, HMS Sparrow. I doubt very much that any sloop ever commissioned ever carried armament even remotely as heavy as the Sparrow. In this novel, the connectionless Herrick is promoted from lieutenant to full captain, skipping commander entirely. While not outright impossible, given that Herrick is utterly lacking in political influence such a promotion streches credulity to the breaking point. Kent's clumsy historical blunders wound the well-informed and alert among his readers.    Where Kent is strong is in his depiction of battle aboard an age of sail warship. The cannons roar, the timbers shudder, the splinters fly, and a fierce boarding action is never far in the offing. However, after several novels, his strongest point loses its luster because of his repetative style and lack of invention.    Overall, I am deeply disappointed in what I now perceive as Kent's systemic problems. I have read nine of these novels, and I feel like I have wasted enough time on them. I'll now be looking for another author to satisfy my age of sail appetite.	2004-08-19
US	51942755	R37CBVWQI81AHQ	158567348X	460811626	Greek Fire, Poison Arrows & Scorpion Bombs: Biological and Chemical Warfare in the Ancient World	Books	2	56	76	N	N	good research, bad analysis	Classical folklorist Adrienne Mayor's Greek Fire, Poison Arrows and Scorpion Bombs is an intriguing, if over-reaching look into the ancient antecedents of chemical and biological warfare. Wide-ranging and well-supported by history, literature and archaeology, it is an excellent reminder that certain seemingly recent ideas and practices are not as modern as they seem. The book is an engaging read for students of classical or military history. However, it lacks focus and suffers from the author's background as a folklorist.<br />Mayor begins not with the historical fact, but with mythology. The first chapter focuses on the poison arrows of the Greek demigod Herakles. Certainly the chapter is well-spent: ancient Greek myth is ancient Greek religion, and discussing the myths of Herakles and his arrows reveals a great deal of the moral attitude the Greeks had towards such weapons. However, it is also here that Mayor has her first stumble by categorizing poison arrows as \\"biological,\\" when strictly speaking the use of such toxins should be chemical warfare. Indeed, Mayor herself makes the same comparison later on in the book.<br />This might seem to be a minor issue, but such distinctions are important, and it also underlines what Mayor's lack of familiarity with modern security studies. Later in the book, when discussing ancient and modern moral attitudes towards biological warfare, she contrasts the ancient attitude that the defenders of a city under siege are permitted any action with modern treaties dealing with chemical and biological warfare and their clauses permitting research for defensive purposes. Either she is overly vague in making the comparison, or she does not understand the treaties in question: these clause do not allow signatories to legitimately use chemical weapons under any circumstances. Instead, they allow for defensive research, ostensibly to develop countermeasures against these forms of attack. Such clauses are much abused, but their moral and legal standing is still very different from Mayor's description of ancient attitudes on the matter of defensive weapons use. The comparison is like apples and oranges.<br />Mayor returns to these mythological roots of chemical and biological warfare too often for what should be a book about what historical fact, not mythological fiction. The mythological references are interesting and have value in a moral context, but Mayor's folklorist background leads her to sprinkle her text with too much of this material.<br />Furthermore, the inclusion of unconventional animals into the study is questionable. The US military classifies trained animals as \\"biological weapons systems,\\" but this is not biological warfare in the same sense that germ warfare would be. The sole instance that bears a distinct resemblance to modern techniques is the scorpion bomb - the very name conjures an image of a cluster bomb delivering stinging poisonous fragments onto the enemy.<br />These difficulties aside, there is value in gathering the many examples of ancient uses of poisons, germs and incendiaries into a single study. Greek Fire accomplishes that task very well. The incendiaries are the most obvious of the classical antecedents. The comparison between napalm and phosphorus with greek fire, hot sand and fire arrows is obvious.<br />However, the most fascinating (and perhaps disturbing) part of the book deals with the various poisons used for arrows, especially in the case of the Scythians. In many respects, a cloud of arrows that could produce horrible, lethal wounds would produce the same kind of terror in the enemy as a cloud of chemical nerve toxins would today. The detailed description of how some of these poisons were made in ancient times is certainly horrific enough.<br />If there were such a thing as an amusing tale of poisons, then this book has them by including the stories of the fabled \\"mad honey\\" that felled both Xenophon's and Pompey's soldiers. Both encountered the naturallytoxic honey native to the region of Pontus, the product of the concentrated toxins in the rhododendron plants of the region. While the idea of hallucinogenic honey sounds funny, even modest amounts of the honey cause powerful hallucinations and painful death. Twice in ancient history, the local population remained silent about the deadly honeycombs, waiting for the hungry soldiers to forage their own demise in the rhododendron forests.<br />While the first recorded catapulting of plague victims' bodies into a besieged city is by the Mongols, Mayor reveals that the ancients also made primitive use of germ warfare. While unaware of the germ origins of disease, the ancients were naturally familiar with some methods by which diseases were transmitted and put these to use in early examples of biological warfare. For example, the ancients knew enough to put carcasses in wells and to try to maneuver enemies into unhealthy marshes and bogs, although once again Mayor over-reaches on the matter and tries to compare fighting on unfavorable ground to putting the enemy in a place where they are likely to be infected with disease. The former is sound, conventional operational practice; the latter is biological warfare.<br />Even worse, Mayor blunders historically and describes the possibility that certain temples kept infectious materials sealed away for use on invaders. However, the problem with this is that it is speculation. The examples all carry the stamp of being a moral device in the classical style of historical storytelling. For example, Mayor puts much weight on the story of Roman soldiers releasing the plague of 165-80 AD by breaking into a temple of Apollo and releasing the contents of golden chest. The tale is an obvious fable, directing moral criticism ad divine retribution upon the Romans for wrongfully sacking that city. <br />A folklorist would naturally be interested in such material. However, a historian would distinguish such stories for what they are and notinclude them in a study on the historical antecedents of chemical and biological warfare. In the same fashion, a security studies specialist would not misunderstand modern treaties or put maneuvering an enemy to fight on bad terrain with making them camp where they would they would catch malaria. The book would have been excellent as a study of folklore on ancient biological and chemical warfare. However, as a serious history on the subject it is badly muddled by blunders and material that should never have been included.  The book does have value as a collection of sources on the subject, and is certainly an entertaining read much of the time, but fails as a meaningful history text on an interesting subject.	2004-02-17
US	51942755	R1RJLFNG6UL5RW	0451209834	190198908	None Braver: U.S. Air Force Pararescuemen in the War on Terrorism	Books	3	22	26	N	N	Good Military Journalism	Michael Hirsch's &quot;None Braver: U.S. Air Force Pararescuemen in the War on Terrorism&quot; is an engaging work of military journalism. Hirsch, a Peabody Award winning documentary filmmaker and Vietnam veteran, has chosen an unusual subject for his study of combat in Afghanistan: the U.S. Air Force's Pararescue Jumpers, or PJs.<br />Hirsch is already familiar with PJs from his previous book, &quot;Pararescue: The Skill and Courage of the Elite 106th Rescue Wing.&quot; Most readers will be familiar with PJs from either reading or seeing &quot;A Perfect Storm.&quot; The bravery and skill of the Search and Rescue crews of the 106th were prominently featured in both. Unlike the rest of the U.S. Military's Special Forces troopers, PJs find regular, hazardous employment in peacetime operations. Jumping out of a helicopter into treacherous stormy seas to rescue civilians from sinking ships is a not uncommon example of a non-combat Search and Rescue operation. Those volunteering to become PJs must pass a grueling 10-week indoctrination course where the failure rate regularly exceeds 85%. By comparison, the SEAL school's failure rate is 75%. Those who pass indoctrination go on to training in advanced combat medicine, HALO parachute jumping, SCUBA diving, mountaineering, special tactics and everything else a man with the primary mission of rescuing injured, downed pilots might need to be able to do to get the job done.<br />The book provides an enlightening look at what may very well me the most dangerous combat mission of all: to save the lives of fellow soldiers. Whether it is fighting the grizzled veteran muhajadeen of the Taliban, parachuting into a minefield, or offering to hike off the peak of a 10,000-foot high mountain through enemy territory just to lighten the load on an overburdened helicopter, the seriousness with which these men take their mission is readily apparent. While no planes were shot down in Afghanistan, the PJs did find themselves entering enemy territory to rescue crews from crashes, and also going into combat situations where ordinary combat medics could not. Hirsch's retelling of the PJ missions is thrilling.<br />&quot;None Braver&quot; also provides some insight into what was going on in the rear. Highly motivated and engaged in a dangerous profession, the PJs spared no effort to make their quarters in Pakistan and Uzbekistan as comfortable as possible. The accompanying tales of improving the facilities and &quot;acquiring&quot; creature comforts strike a light and amusing chord. Weighing heavier is Hirsch's attitude towards heavy military bureaucracy and incompetent leadership. His experience as a Vietnam veteran shows strongly in his contempt for bumbling, self-absorbed, careerist officers. It begins with a Colonel (but still just a petty bureaucrat) who spitefully torments Hirsch and his Air Force &quot;minder&quot; upon arrival in the theatre, merely because she had not been informed of their mission. From there, the matter escalates to his damning criticism of interservice rivalry that risks the lives of the men in the field, and to the incompetent planning and execution of Operation Anaconda. Hirsch shows the bitterness of a man who once wore the uniform and feels very poorly used by his superiors.<br />Michael Hirsch has written an entertaining and informative book on Combat Search and Rescue. That it is drawn from recent events only makes it more thrilling, and hopefully educational.	2004-01-13
US	51942755	RE1CC4LDALNWC	1883620082	239534729	Civil War Medicine: Challenges and Triumphs	Books	4	11	12	N	N	a first rate medical history	Bollet has written a first rate book on the practice of military medicine in the Civil War. &quot;Civil War Medicine: Challenges and Triumphs&quot; is well-organized, approachable to the non-Civil War History buff or those lacking in a medical background, addresses both Confederate as well as Union history (a standard failing in many Civil War works), and dispells many myths about the standards of Civil War medical practices.<br />At the onset of the War, the American medical community faced a problem no less difficult than that of their military counterparts: mobilizing to handle the vast numbers of diseased and injured men that a major war would confront them with. They confronted many of the same difficulties as well: political meddling, hidebound regular Army leadership, and having to learn by doing. Bollet does an excellent job of describing how the combatants (the Union in particular) produced excellent military medical establishments, but only after learning from their own numerous mistakes.<br />He also examines the state of medical practice at the time, with an eye towards dispelling the many myths that have grown up around Civil War surgery (and continue to be espoused by historians today - historians who ought to know better). After laying down the facts (and the state of medicine at the time makes a fascinating study), he takes the very necessary next step of comparing American medical practice during the war to the two next best yardsticks: the Crimean War preceeding the conflict, and the Franco-German War which followed it. With those comparisons in mind, even at some of their absolute worst moments, American military medicine was doing far better than their European counterparts in saving lives.<br />It is a good book and will be an engaging read for any Civil War buff.	2003-07-30
US	51942755	R2SLIS96SP6YSF	1574884433	23832634	The Shadow Warriors of Nakano: A History of the Imperial Japanese Army's Elite Intelligence School	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A Worthy Book	Mercado chose a subject well worth writing about. Military intelligence is a critical, but often underexamined part of military history. Any good student of military history knows how critical collecting intelligence and keeping secrets is to success in war, but how often do you see books on how information is collected, how secrets are kept, and about who does all of that?<br />The story of the Nakano School's graduates is an interesting one and their field operations were fascinating. Those familiar with the hidebound reputation of Imperial Japanese Army officers during the war will find the creative and independent Nakano-trained intelligence officers and their work to be fascinating. In many ways, one gets the feeling that the harsh, brutal and inflexible militancy of their own Army was a greater opponent than the enemy! These excellent soldiers were involved in everything from spying to propaganda to the nationalist subversion of Allied colonial holdings. <br />Mercado then goes on to follow the Nakano graduates into the post-war world, including their very important role in Occupied Japan, their work with the Americans during the Cold War, and other noteworthy endeavors. Judging from their wartime performance and their post-war success, one could truly say that the Nakano graduates represented some of the best and brightest of their generation.<br />The book makes for fascinating reading, and I recommend it to anyone who is interested either in intelligence, military history or Japan in general. The only reason why I cannot give it four stars is because I found the editing to be sloppy in spots.	2003-05-12
US	51942755	R2E82MX42JE8C2	0743229150	545924526	Treason: How a Russian Spy Led an American Journalist to a U.S. Double Agent	Books	2	5	5	N	N	was this really worth a book?	I left reading Powell's &quot;Treason&quot; wondering if his story was really worthy of a book. An meaty article in some highbrow magazine, surely, but a book?<br />Powell describes his involvement with bringing a Soviet turncoat, GRU Colonel Baranov, in from the cold. Baranov, disgruntled with the crumbling Soviet system, agreed to spy for the CIA. However, before he was able to do much of anything for the CIA, he was outed as a traitor. The book describes Baranov's career, and then Powell's efforts to bring the government into investigating the circumstances surrounding Baranov's arrest, almost certainly the work of a spy in the United States who betrayed Baranov to Moscow.<br />The main problem with the book is that it ends inconclusively. We never learn who betrayed Baranov. Furthermore, Baranov himself makes for a rather uninteresting subject of study when it comes to espionage, because his career as a traitor inside the GRU and agent for the CIA was over immediately after it began.<br />Readers will learn something about how spies like Baranov are recruited and operate - both into the intelligence services and then into betraying their countries. They will also learn a good bit about journalistic ethics and espionage (the book's high point). Another strong point is getting what is essentially a street level account of how badly the CIA can bungle seemingly routine tasks.<br />Overall, the book is well-written, and Baranov's story is a good one. I just don't think it was worth of a full-fledged book, even a short one like &quot;Treason.&quot;	2003-05-12
US	51942755	R39TDI6DCR52TN	0743246470	505916468	It's Still the Economy, Stupid: George W. Bush, The GOP's CEO	Books	4	92	104	N	N	Well-Written New Democrat Propaganda	Crossfire Commentator and former Clinton Adviser Paul Begala's book \\"It's Still the Economy Stupid\\" is an excellent examination of what is wrong and will continue to be wrong with the Bush Administration's economic policies. It is well-written, has a cutting sense of humor, and its assertions are well-supported by hard evidence. However, don't let any of that fool you: Begala has an agenda, and this book IS propaganda.<br />I think it would be instructive for anyone who likes reading books like this to read some Republican and Democratic propaganda back to back. The differences really come out. As a general rule, the Dem propaganda very rarely tells direct lies or makes outrageous fabrications about anything. Instead, they simply OMIT the material that they would rather not deal with. Begala's book definetely fits that mold - if you read his book, you would think the 90s were peaches and cream for everyone in America. They were not. However, this does not change the plain fact that they were pretty good, and better than anything Republican policies would have resulted in. Furthermore, you would believe George Bush caused the current recession. He did not - however, he did make it worse and has done nothing to correct the true difficulties confronting the economy.<br />Dems also usually are easy to read and have a friendly sense of humor about what they are doing. Compare that to say, Ann Coulter. Her footnotes, if you bother to check them out, are a literal papertrail revealing just how much lying she has to do to make it look like there is a factual basis for anything coming out of her word processor. Furthermore, if the spirit of Dem propagana is humor, the spirit of Repub propaganda is hate.<br />The book is surprisingly light reading, given how full of hard facts it is. It is an excellent little bit of propaganda concerning Clinton's positive accomplishments and Bush's lack of them. Anyone who reads this book and walks away without serious questions regarding what Bush is doing to the wallets of 98 or 99% of all Americans is either stupid, blind to the facts, or has been listening to Ann Coulter and Rush Limbaugh for so long they have forgotten what facts actually look like.	2003-05-12
US	51942755	RDNGKA4B9VP2Z	0375507469	155280014	Cicero: The Life and Times of Rome's Greatest Politician	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Readable, excellent biography	I adored Everitt's biography of Marcus Tullius Cicero. As a student of stoicism and of the Greco-Roman period, I have long enjoyed Cicero's writing and regarded him as the prototype for the modern politician. Unlike most Roman or even those political figures in the Greek democracies, Cicero did not combine being either a successful general or being a well-bred aristocrat with the traits of a great politician (or all three, as Gaius Julius Caesar did). Instead, he rose to prominence in a time rich with prominent characters solely on the basis of his skills as an orator, lawyer and administrator. This is commonplace today, but was a true rarity in the ancient world. I believe Cicero to have been the first modern politician. His biography should be of interest to a wide audience.<br />Everitt's strengths in this work are many. First, he is able to use Cicero's career to great effect in navigating the tumult of Roman politics leading up to, through, and beyond the second civil war (Caesar v. Pompey). He also uses Cicero's intimate circle to good effect in describing the lifestyle of a wealthy and important Roman. These two facets of the biography will be of great importance to the those not familiar with Roman history.<br />He also does a magnificent job of putting a very human face on many of the numerous prominent characters from the drama of what was the last generation of the Roman Republic. Publius Clodius, Pompey and Cato come vividly to life through his prose. However, in this respect he was inconsistent. Given how Cicero's place as a constant opponent of Caesar and Caesar's <i>populares</i> revolutionary intentions, I was surprised that Caesar himself did not come out with the same color. Treating Crassus with such inattention would be excusable, but not Gaius Julius Caesar.<br />Everitt concludes his narrative by taking what is certainly a minority opinion in classical history (but one that I share): that Cicero came very close to winning the third civil war (eventually boiling down to Octavian v. Anthony). His failure was a result of simple, dreadful bad luck.<br />Overall, this is an excellent bit of popular history, and even being well read in classical sources, I enjoyed it immensely. If you are thinking of buying this book, then by all means do so!	2003-02-20
US	51942755	R1VP6HE5T7Y8KK	006205161X	39806637	Beauty Queen	Books	2	18	21	N	Y	Uninspired and predictable	\\"Beauty Queen\\" is not particularly impressive, even by the standards of a teen anti-drug novel. The protaganist, Sam, is archtypal - a teenaged girl with low self-esteem, from a broken home with an alchoholic mother. Her therapist advises her to move out, and she winds up stripping and being introduced to drugs.<br />While I know that sometimes things do happen this way, the entire plot came across as incredibly contrived. The way she gets into heroin in the first place; the mobster with a big heart looking out for her; the loser, drug-dealing cop lover. She even has a diabetic cat, and is therefore already familiar with needles. Without revealing too much, one can see where everything is going and the part everyone plays in it almost from the start. It is less a self-destructive roller coaster ride than a plunge straight to hell from the very minute she moves out of her Mom's house: Sam literally cannot go even a journal entry without shooting some smack from the very day she starts using.<br />If you are looking for anti-drug \\"smack fiction,\\" then go with \\"Smack.\\" The novel is much more sophisticated in terms of its character development and its plot, and furthermore one can learn a lot about 1980s British punk while reading it.	2003-02-18
US	51942755	RODQQJ4SS52TM	0195135210	436402699	Crossroads of Freedom: Antietam (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	A good, but needlessly thin book	McPherson's &quot;Crossroads of Freedom: Antietam&quot; is McPherson's assertion that the south lost the war at Sharpsburg, Maryland in the September of 1862. While an enjoyable read, the book is a bit on the thin side and it did not have to be.<br />He does an excellent job of providing the reader with an examination of the larger politico-military situation running up to what was the bloodiest single day in American history. This is the book's main strength. By the time the reader actually reaches General Robert E. Lee's first invasion of the north, one has a real feel for the true ebb and flow of the war. McPherson takes us to other theatres of operations, into politics of both the Northern and Southern governments (although, as is common with most Civil War works, the North gets the deeper examination), the politics within the Union Army, into the morale of the Northern and Southern people, and into the deliberations of the British and French governments regarding recognition of the South. The reader should almost feel Abraham's exasperation with his own constituents and the governments of Europe: after a string of major strategic successes, everyone seems to think that the war is on the verge of being lost because of Lee's string of tactical victories. NONE of the effects of the previous successes were overturned by Lee's victories, yet panic was rampant and many feared (or anticipated) the North's loss of the war.<br />This is followed by the battle of Antietam itself. From an editor's perspective, this is the book's major failing. The book is a bit short, and it is in describing the battle itself that McPherson has made it short. While Antietam is hardly new ground, the book is about the battle and it's place as a pivotal moment in the course of the Civil War. McPherson discusses the battle just enough to demonstrate General George McClellan's tactical incompetence, and leaves it at that. The drama of the bloodiest day in American history is left undelivered.McPherson tells us that by failing to win this battle, the South essentially lost the war, but the struggle itself was merely summarized. If I were McPherson's editor, I would have sent it back and told him to split the battle into two chapters at least - one dealing with the discovery of Lee's Special Order, Harper's Ferry and the fighting at South Mountain, and the other with the battle itself. It would have done a lot for the book to deal with the battle in more detail.<br />Following Antietam, McPherson returns to what is this strength - non-combat related material. He concludes his book by examining the impact of the Emancipation Proclamation with the same scope and attention he employed in his build up to the battle of Antietam. Here he concludes his thesis that the loss of Antietam cost the South the war, for it cost the South any hope of foreign intervention in the war. He also details the beginning of the war's transformation from a war to preserve the Union into a war to end slavery.<br />Overall, I think the book is an enjoyable read, even for serious Civil War buffs. The wide scope McPherson employs in bringing the various social, political and military threads of 1862 together is the book's main strength, and coupled with a good writing style, that makes it a joy to read. I would like to give it four stars, but I cannot because of its cursory examination of the actual battle of Antietam. It is a major omission and one that would have been ridiculously simple to fill.	2003-01-24
US	51942755	R1WJ837M9JQUOA	0316897752	451518791	The Devil and Sonny Liston	Books	1	28	40	N	N	Tosches needs to stick to music and stay out of boxing	Frankly, I do not know how someone could do such a job of mangling Sonny Liston's biography. As Tosche's so frequently points out, Liston was certainly among the baddest of the bad, a real physical monster and a sinister figure. He was menacing, he was a criminal, he was backed by the mafia, he came to a tragic end, and he lived in the Jim Crowe south. Most important of all, the man was George Foreman and Mike Tyson rolled into one<br />How does one write a truly awful book about a man like this?<br />Tosches does it by ignoring why Liston is a compelling national figure in the first place - that he was the single most powerful heavyweight champion in history, a true terror in the ring. He ALMOST COMPLETELY IGNORES BOXING in favor of sordid tales of street crime, slavery analogies and disecting mob control of boxing in the 1950s and 1960s. We learn more about the nuts and bolts of Frankie Carbo's (the mobster who ran boxing in the 1950s) career than we do Liston's.<br />While an athelete's biography should be about more than just his athletic accomplishments, that biography ought to be centered around athletics. Judging from the book, Tosches decided that learning about the sport that made Liston famous was not worth his time. He instead went solely after what he was interested in: the seamier side of Liston's life and racism. He does not even try to disguise his lack of interest in boxing. The sheer arrogance in writing about Liston and ignoring the details of the man's boxing career is astounding, and it is bad authorship. Tosches tells us that Liston was a physical terror, but passes up the best material for demonstrating it. Liston's capacity for violence in this book is not found in the drama of the ring, squaring off against a trained, powerful, competent opponent. It is found in ambush robberies and gang beating a cop. Frankly, you don't need to be Sonny Liston to do that (although it does help).<br />Tosches has succeeded in writing a biography of Sonny Liston which makes Liston out to be one member of a vast ensemble cast. He is not a prominent character in his own biography!<br />Skip this book. I am glad I received it as a gift, and did not have to pay for it. The only redeeming feature is the cover, which is excellent. If you get it as a gift too, display it. Don't waste your time reading it.	2003-01-08
US	51942755	R1PFY9DC2TQ7BR	0813398282	527214390	Fast Food, Fast Track? Immigrants, Big Business, and the American Dream	Books	3	1	2	N	N	An interesting study	Sociologist Jennifer Parker Talwar spent four years working in a Burger King as a part of her research on this book. She interviewed a wide range of immigrant fast-food workers in New York City's ethnic communities. The result is an interesting study in immigration, ethnicity, labor and community in New York City.<br />As a white American who has worked in fast food before, I was surprised to read about just how much is going on with fast food restaurants in a major metropolis, both in terms of the labor side and the business side. My experience was archtypal middle America - the kid working to make extra money. I think that this description still applies for the vast majority of the country, but the more I think about the faces behind the counter of many fast food restaurants in Washington, DC, Talwar is right - fast food is the entry for many immigrants into the mainstream American workforce. Accordingly, this book is a must-read for those who want to consider how immigrants are assimilated into modern America.<br />The main limitation is that it is a study of immigrant labor and fast food in New York City. The broad range of ethnic diversity and community experiences that were drawn upon for this book simply do not exist anywhere else in the United States. I cannot think of any other city that could readily provide the &quot;United Nations&quot; workforce of the Chinatwon McDonald's described in this book. Therefore, how applicable Talwar's work is to the country at large must be called into question. Also, do not be fooled by the cover into thinking that this book is anything like &quot;Fast Food Nation.&quot; It is a specific (and appropriately narrow) sociological study, and lacks the range of that excellent book.	2002-10-28
US	51942755	R1ABRXWDSH2ECW	0375410597	197768667	Executioner's Current: Thomas Edison, George Westinghouse, and the Invention of the Electric Chair	Books	4	4	4	N	N	shockingly good popular history	Moran begins with America's first execution using that most peculiar of lethal inventions: the electric chair. The execution sets an appropriate tone for a book that is both a history of that invention and an examination of the search for a humane means of executing criminals: the execution of convicted murderer William Kemmler was a cruel, horrific and botched experiment of an electrocution, and proclaimed a \\"success\\" despite all of that.<br />\\"Executioner's Current\\" lays the groundwork for this interesting story of how the United States came to employ what was supposedly a novel, enlightened, and humane means of execution -- in actuality only novel -- by describing it's origins in the electrification of America and the early competition over what model this would follow: George Westinghouse's AC model or Thomas Edison's DC model. DC was economically inferior and inefficient compared to Westinghouse's AC system. Being unable to compete on the relative merits of the two technologies, Edison launched a public relations and lobbying campaign that would rival any modern effort for its obfuscations and distortions. The object of this campaign was to paint AC as being too dangerous to use in residential or commercial applications.<br />Naturally, when New York state was revising it's capital punishment laws at that time, and electrocution came into the debate as a new, possibly more humane means of execution, they consulted the national hero and genius electrician, Thomas Edison. Edison, in the midst of slandering Westinghouse's more efficient electrical distribution technology, told them that AC was so dangerous that it would be the ideal means to execute criminals. This was followed by staged experiments on animals designed to illustrate how lethal (and how relatively safe DC current) AC current was, the invention of a practical electrical chair, and the many electrocutions that have been performed since.<br />I am not an opponent of the death penalty, but I have always considered the electric chair to be a ridiculous method of execution. Moran's larger point is that the search for a more humane means of execution has little to do with sparing the condemned from suffering, but is more about assuaging the conscience of the persons and larger society that condemned him. To Moran, the more important question than humane means is whether any execution is humane. On this point, I would disagree with him (Moran is clearly an opponent), but the point is one worth making and the question is one worth asking. Between that and the fascinating story, this book is one well worth reading.	2002-10-23
US	51942755	R1OVV75P28VBFH	0895263858	834327265	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	1	19	23	N	N	A waste of paper	Hannibal was among the greats of ancient military history, the equal of Caesar and surpassed only by Scipio and Alexander. It is a tragedy that a novel as poor as this bears his name.<br /><br />Ross Leckie's first mistake is to try and compress Hannibal's expansive career into a work of less than 300 pages. This novel is one part of a trilogy of historical fiction about the Punic Wars, but Hannibal alone is worthy of a trilogy. The attempt to deal with so much material in a single novel was pure folly.<br /><br />By compressing the history so ruthlessly, Leckie makes austere prose a detriment to his storytelling. Ordinarily I enjoy an austere writing style. There is almost no character development in the novel, with the singular exception of explaining Hannibal's hatred of Rome. However, this lone effort at character development is stillborn: we never actually feel any of Hannibal's hatred, because it is never adequately described or conveyed. Hannibal himself is reduced to a one-dimensional character, which does the reader a great disservice. None of the supporting characters receive any development whatsoever: they are ciphers, used to advance what is essentially. This is what makes the novel so terribly dull - I could not find myself remotely interested in or caring for any of the characters.<br /><br />It is also painfully obvious that Leckie's research is lacking, and he probably plagiarized Mary Renault's \\"Fire From Heaven\\" for one of his chapters.<br /><br />I am thrilled with only one aspect of this novel: I bought it for only $1 at a used bookshop on a whim. It is atrocious historical fiction, and I only finished it so I could write this review in good conscience.	2002-09-10
US	51942755	RUKZ07LPD785Z	0140144420	891047918	Sharpe's Siege	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Richard Sharpe fights on...	Bernard Cornwell gives another solid adventure novel from his Sharpe series, the military counterpart to Forester's celebrated Hornblower novels. In this story, Sharpe is dispatched with the Royal Navy to capture a coastal fort and a few dozen luggers. Napoleon's spymaster, Major Ducos, learns of his bitter enemy's presence and schemes to trap him, and succeeds in marooning Sharpe in his fortress. The \\"Siege\\" follows, as Sharpe stands off a force of 2000 crapauds plus artillery, with little more than 200 Riflemen and Marines, and his own will to win.<br />On the minus side, longtime Sharpe confidant and British spymaster Michael Hogan dies of fever. I believe that Cornwell handled this matter poorly. Hogan's death was consistent with Napoleonic reality (many more soliders died of disease than wounds back then), but it was anti-climactic - and it was anti-climactic because Hogan's death was used to create anxiety in Sharpe that his new wife would also die of the fever. Basically, Cornwell bumped off a long-standing, well-developed character in a poorly developed fashion to make the hero anxious about a new, underdeveloped character. That is bad writing.<br />If Cornwell's Sharpe serial has any general failing, it is in how cookie-cutter all his novels are. If you are reviewing one of them, you are basically reviewing all of them. There is rarely ANY variation from his standard plot and character archtypes. Just ONCE I would like to see Sharpe get into trouble because of a otherwise competent superior's honest mistake (or the brilliance of the enemy - imagine that!) and not because said superior is an incompetent, corrupt, cowardly, arrogant bumbler.<br />However, even if Cornwell is formulaic, it is a thoroughly enjoyable formula. History buffs, fans of swash and buckle, and anyone who has enjoyed Forester's Hornblower will just love this stuff.	2002-08-21
US	51942755	ROPWLG3Y8WDYZ	0767904141	339262282	Close to Shore: The Terrifying Shark Attacks of 1916	Books	3	25	26	N	N	Solid narrative	&quot;Close to Shore&quot; does an excellent job in telling the tale of the 1916 Jersey Shore shark attacks. His main achievement in spinning this sea monster yarn is in laying the groundwork - to be convincing and achieve the real horror of the vent, Capuzzo had to put the reader into the perspective on an American of the period - prior to Jaws, &quot;The Summer of the Shark&quot; and all that. To us, shark attacks are a morbid curiousity and a subject of tabloid journalism and horror movies. To the people in 1916, well, they were not even sure if some sharks were dangerous to man (dismissing stories of such things as ignorant or superstitious). This is done with loving attention, and achieves great effect by the time the first attack is described.<br />I gave the book three starts rather than four because of Capuzzo's departure from good historical journalism in dismissing the possibility that the shark was a bull shark (quite possible), or that separate sharks were involved. It makes for good drama to have a single &quot;character,&quot; and to our modern post-Jaws sensibilities, that would just HAVE to be a great white (we are talking sharks here). However, this is supposedly a work of non-fiction, and such devices are both unnecessary and detract from the overall value of the work.<br />That said, the book is an good, page-turning read. My sister borrowed the copy from me as soon as I was done with it, and she almost never borrows books from me. I still haven't gotten it back!	2002-06-21
US	51942755	RHNWR4UZD2Z2D	0738206350	496504046	The Great 401(k) Hoax: What You Need to Know to Protect Your Family and Your Future	Books	2	36	42	N	N	Accurate, Relevant, Poorly Written	&quot;The Great 401(k) Hoax&quot; offers an accurate, well-researched analysis of what has become an fallacious bit of common wisdom in the United States: that the Stock Market is a means by which average Americans can amass wealth. It is a lie, perpetrated by the US financial industry to divert funds that would have gone into traditional, safer long-term investment options like bonds, start-up businesses or real estate into mutual funds and small-investor portfolios.<BR> <BR>A part of this transfer is the 401(k) plan, where the weight of a pension plan is supposed to rest on stock investment rather than defined benefits (pensions where retirees receive fixed payments). The authors do an excellent job of explaining why companies in America switched from defined benefit pensions, and why using the Stock Market as a basis for them is a terrible idea. Readers of &quot;One Market Under God&quot; will find this information and argument very familiar, but the specific focus on the 401(k) plan and it's impact on the future retirement of millions of Americans is enlightening.<BR> <BR>The major failure of the book is in its writing style. I've edited MA Theses and Dissertations that were vastly superior in terms of diction and command of the language than this book. Frankly, whoever edited this book should be fired. Also, I have to seriously wonder if the authors did not enjoy reading &quot;The Starr Report&quot; a little too much. Clearly they have a bone to pick with Bill Clinton, which is fine with me. However, by the middle of the book, I wanted to strangle them both if I had to read that Clinton blew another opportunity to do great things because he had &quot;Monica's thong wrapped around his head.&quot; Their efforts at sarcastic humor detract from what is a very serious subject - the future retirement of millions of Americans - and their every sarcastic effort comes across as the work of a witless junior high schooler obsessed with potty jokes.	2002-06-04
US	51942755	RUV7WHG0RCMIC	0813367506	321551263	The Fate Of The Union: America's Rocky Road To Political Stalemate	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Don't believe the hype	Robert Shogan has an axe to grind, even though he disclaims that intent from the start of his book.<br />Shogan opens &quot;Fate of the Union&quot; by explaining that he is examining why Presidencies fail. However, this is a thinly veiled thesis for covering his real intention, which is to blacken Bill Clinton.<br />Shogan, of course, has very little good to say about anyone. His commentary on every single political figure dealt with in &quot;Fate of the Union&quot; is negative, and as a result he comes across as a man rendered very bitter by his many years covering the Washington scene. The only real question is not whether he approves or disapproves of a given politician, but to what extent he disapproves. The main target for his bile is Clinton, however. The strength of this book is in the magnitude of it's detail. He gives extensive biographies of every major player, and details each major issue. As a work of the political history of the early-to-mid-90s, it is excellent, if biased.<br />The irony of the book is in Shogan's terrible logic. He would have been better off if he had just stuck to writing about how little he thought of Clinton and politicians in general. However, by portraying the book as an example of why President's fail, he becomes entangled in his own contradictory reasoning.<br />For example, he clearly believes very strongly that America would be better off if the political parties stopped compromising and slugged it out over ideas. I would agree, except that he also believes the reason that legislation and policy initiatives fail is because our government was designed to gridlock, because of the checks-and-balances system. Shogan is critical of compromise and governing from consensus (he is relentlessly critical of Clinton for trying to govern from the center). However, with a system designed so that the executive and the legislative branches are competing (even when both are in the hands of the same party), how is anyone expected to accomplish anything significant without compromise and consensus politics?<br />Ironically, the one figure that (according to Shogan) had real vision, real talent, and ran on his ideas was Newt Gingrich - and Shogan has very little positive to say about him either. It is a measure of how negative Shogan's tone is that, while condeming Clinton's compromises and the very notion of governing from a centrist consensus, he accuses Gingrich of reaching too far with his Contract with America, and thus blowing his electoral victory. Clinton is deplorable for seeking compromise; Gingrich is a fool for being too much of an idealist to seek compromise.<br />The book is well-researched and makes for a fascinating read. However, I think the reader should be forewarned of one thing - the author has an axe to grind, and he seems to want to hit everybody with it!	2002-04-29
US	51942755	RGF75PAO7CVUG	0142000957	323802732	Killing Pablo: The Hunt for the World's Greatest Outlaw	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A gripping story of manhunt meeting espionage	Mark Bowden has once again produced a gripping peice of journalism. While not the tale of close combat portrayed in \\"Black Hawk Down,\\" \\"Killing Pablo\\" is just as good a book. It is, perhaps, superior.<br />Beginning with a brief description of Pablo Escobar's rise to power as a ruthless Colombian mafioso, a man who kidnapped and murdered his way from petty street crime into becoming the world's leading narco gangster, Bowden goes on to deliver a page turning account that is the core of this book: Escobar's war on the Colombian state, his compromise \\"incarceration,\\" his escape, and ultimately his assassination by the Colombian police.<br />The account of Escobar's war on the Colombian government (indeed, the Colombian nation) should be an eye-opening experience for anyone not familiar with how \\"law and order\\" really works for most of the world. Escobar's drug empire was so fantastically lucrative that it made the Medellin Cartel a state within a state. His ability to bribe even the highest public officials, murder those who would not accept bribes (up to Presidential candidates), and commit acts of rampant terrorism should shock and horrify the reader. The Medellin Cartel was able to wage a campaign that traditionally is associated only with strong revolutionary movements. The reader should walk away with an understanding of what living in a Third World country (granted, at its worst) can be like.<br />The story of the struggle against Escobar takes two general categories. One is an interesting expose on US covert operations. Those familiar with \\"Black Hawk Down\\" should find this account of what General Garrison and the Delta Force do when they aren't shooting at people to be fascinating. The book details a major US covert operation involving the military, CIA, DEA and State Department, and employs everything from the most sophisticated electronic surveillance to good old fashioned, shoe leather police work.<br />The other side is the activities of the Colombian special paramilitary police force that was detailed to combat Escobar. The story of the implacable Colonel Martinez is a gripping morality play. On the one side, it shows how the grit and determination of one man really can make a difference in this world. On the other, it shows the degenerative effects of being at war, surrounded by corruption, with death lurking around every corner. Martinez's story is both one of courage in the face of a nakedly evil monster, but also of a test of morals that the Colonel does not completely pass.<br />I found the book to be a page turner in every sense of the word, particularly after I reached Escobar's escape from his luxurious \\"prison.\\" I was unable to put it down from that point forward. I strongly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in covert activities, true crime, modern history, or who just likes to read a good yarn.	2002-04-25
US	51942755	R9BBX5HUL6DUD	0743410513	605962018	The Unburied	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Fiction to be read with a fork!	Palliser achieves a densely plotted novel in \\"the Unburied.\\" Set in Victorian England, the main plotline chronicles Dr. Courtine's efforts at solving a Christmastime murder mystery in a sleepy Wessex college town. However, bound up within this is a closely intertwined ghost story (which is something of a murder mystery in and off itself). However, the real theme of the novel is Courtine's own journey of self-discovery, starting with his re-acquaintance with an old college chum and then on through his own halting investigation.<br />The novel is densely plotted, and it requires some focus to keep all of the details ordered. You learn something new about the novel's historical background, a character, or some event on every single page. If you like novels so thick that you need a fork to get them down, then this novel is for you.<br />I have read this author's work being favorably compared to Umberto Eco's. I disagree. The two authors share a propensity to write about academics, and love their esoteric details, but Palliser's work is not so relentlessly academic and philosophical. I love Eco, but acknowledge that his work is not fully accessible even for brainy types. Palliser is generally more approachable. I would put him on a par with Arturo Perez-Reverte.	2002-04-10
US	51942755	R13UBSCN3TXYL8	0140246967	501983138	Touched with Fire: The Land War in the South Pacific	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A very good soldiers history	Eric Bergerud has produced a very good soldier's history of the land war in the South Pacific. For Americans, this is a sadly understudied period, often ignored in favor of the far larger battles on the Central Pacific Islands or the Philippines. However, it was during this period that the outcome of the war in the Pacific was actually in doubt, and therefore where the Japanese were on a relatively equal footing with the Allies. The relative forces involved make the American involvement certainly equal to the parallel operations in North Africa and Sicily, but at that time we were far from being even equal partners with the British. It is a fascinating campaign in an exotic region, and Bergerud treats it as such.<br />Bergerud takes a Keeganesque approach, but balances it with the necessity of his narrative. Those looking for an in-depth strategical analysis should look elsewhere - jungle wars are by necessity not wars of large manuver units. It is, by necessity, a grunt's story. However, Bergerud's narrative does describe the campaign and some of the higher strategic considerations which led to those grunts being sent to wherever they were sent, and why their respective armies sent them out to fight the way that they did. The narrative takes the reader on a fascinating journey through life as a combat solider in the South Pacific: where he fought, how he was wounded, injured or rendered ill (disease being a huge problem in the jungles of the South Pacific), how he was cared for in injury and death, what he ate, how he was armed, why he fought, and all the other elements that you need to really understand what a rifleman's life was like. The author makes good use of veterans' interviews in illustrating his points.<br />Australians will take comfort (and hopefully Americans will learn something) in the attention paid to their contribution in the South Pacific. The MacArthur propaganda legacy does not hold sway over this book.<br />If there is any great failing in this book, it is the lack of material present about the Japanese. At times, coverage of the Japanese is excellent. However, at no time does the author use as much interview material from Japanese veterans as he does from Allied vets. Also, Bergerud gives Japanese morale the short end of the stick. That is a serious flaw, given that by the time one reaches the chapter on morale, a reader should be painfully aware of just how much every Japanese attack in the South Pacific (even the successful ones) resembled massacres. What motivated these men to go and die in droves is a subject worthy of a serious examination, and Bergerud does not give it one.<br />That aside, this is a great book for anyone wanting to bone up on the South Pacific campaign!	2002-03-28
US	51942755	R24J7LG4YMR4R3	0609807293	383116233	Droppin' Science: Straight-Up Talk from Hip Hop's Greatest Voices	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Good for the hip hop coffee table	Dropping Science is a pithy collection of quotes from a wide variety of hip hop figures, past and present. It's a great book for flipping through, so get it if you are looking to add some flavor to your coffeetable. It won't get much use on your bookshelf.	2002-03-22
US	51942755	R2BQ5PRW4HAI77	0156006847	297422625	The Fencing Master: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Antiquarian Thriller	Jaime Astarloa, a middle-aged fencing master and walking anachronism serves as the pivot around which a web of political intrique is woven during tumultuous times in 1866 Madrid. The story features everything one could want from a good thriller - a beautiful woman, a noble protagonist, a few murders and a great scandal.<br />Arturo Perez-Reverte's speciality in my book is spinning stories which weave beautifully antiquarian and esoteric details into him. However, unlike Umberto Eco, you will not need a Master's in Philosophy to really enjoy his work. This novel ought to appeal to a variety of interests - Latin culture fans, historians, fencers, or just those looking for a good murder mystery. Buy the book and en garde!	2002-03-21
US	51942755	R8J4EHEZFCJFX	0802775993	315939699	Dead Run: The Shocking Story of Dennis Stockton and Life on Death Row in America	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Real Life, Real Drama	\\"Dead Run\\" is the best prison drama I have ever read, made more gripping by the fact that it is ALL TRUE. The bookd recounts the final prison term of Dennis Stockton, who was probably innocent and spent over a decade on Death Row. The first part of the book deals with the only successful mass escape from Death Row in American history, but the drama does not end there. Following that, by following Stockton through the system and finally to his execution, one becomes acquainted with the grim, crushing reality of the brutality and neglect of the American prison system.<br />On top of being a gripping tale of prison life, the book is a damning account of capital punishment and our prison system in general. By picking Stockton as a subject, a probably innocent man singled out by the UN as an example of a case of capital punishment that did not meet up with the standards expected of international law, the authors make a ringing statement against death penalty laws and procedures in the United States. Only the most rabid pro-death penalty advocate could read this book and not come away questioning their support for the execution of criminals.<br />A further feature that permeates the story is just how seedy and corrupt everyone and everything in the book are. The courts, the cops, the guards, the prisoners, the politicians - they are all part of the same basically corrupt world. Only (not coincidentally) the reporters and some of the witnesses come off as being white in a very grey and black world.<br />The book is a magnificent, cannot-put-it-down peice of work that I heartily recommend to any lover of a good non-fiction tale!	2002-03-08
US	51942755	R2KAAQRN8ZA7YX	0380816547	416150558	Island of the Sequined Love Nun	Books	2	7	12	N	N	Moore's Least	This was my least favorite of the Christopher Moore novels. In keeping with his &quot;Tom Robbins meets the X-Files&quot; style, this novel is centered on an organ-harvesting scheme in the South Pacific. However, I found that it lacked the sense of slack fun the permeated his other novels. Rather than chuckling to myself, page by page, I was merely smirking.<br />I would recommend any Christopher Moore novel, but if there is another one you haven't read yet, go to it first.	2002-03-07
US	51942755	R1ONUUX6N6FDFA	1928568033	76352537	I Was A Teenage Dominatrix	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Close to home...	When I spotted the review in the Washington City Paper, I went out and got the book. When I read the book, I realized (much to my amusement) that I had gotten acquainted with Kenney while hanging out in the Crowbar.<br />This is one of the better \\"I worked in the sex industry\\" memoirs around, precisely because Kenney seems to have gotten into and out of the industry relatively unscathed. Insightful and amusing, I would recommend it to anyone who is neither prudish or looking for cheap thrills.	2002-03-06
US	51942755	R1JM48LYGD5XOS	0679726101	169597856	Citizens: A Chronicle of the French Revolution	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Excellent!	I became aware of Simon Schama through the conversion of his works into a pair of programs for the History Channel. Picking up a copy of this book in a used book store, I found that Schama is not only an excellent narrator, he is a first rate author. I fully intend to acquire other books by him now.<br />I have never been particularly interested in French history, so this was my first exposure to many aspects of the Revolutionary period. I found it to be a fascinating drama. Schama has not only paid careful attention to creating a readable history, he also paid provided information for the scholar, making frequent references to the past studies of others on particular points of the period. One walks away with an excellent understanding of both the Revolution and the study of the Revolution.	2002-01-30
US	51942755	R163WO4AY0TDLE	0801821584	253524655	The Grand Strategy of the Roman Empire: From the First Century A.D. to the Third	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Clausewitz in a toga	This book is approachable to the strategist, the scholar and the simply curious. Well-written and well-reasoned, Luttwak has produced yet another excellent book. The approach of using modern strategical analysis on Roman politico-military affairs is something that has long been missing from studies of the Roman Army. Certainly the armchair legates who cry that the death of the Roman Empire was in its failure to continue expanding should read this book before continuing to rant their expansion-without-profit creed!	2002-01-30
US	51942755	R3OE3L5N7A1SQR	1572490853	122993867	The Test of Battle: The American Expeditionary Forces in the Meuse-Argonne Campaign	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Excellent reference, fair reading	This book is an excellent historical reference on American participation on the Western Front. It provides ample politico-military information, as well as illuminating the reader on other scholarship in the field. However, it does suffer a bit on what I would describe as inferior editing. Basically, I would recommend this book for a serious historian looking for a good entry into American involvement on the ground in WW1. Once you have it and read it, it ought to stay on your bookshelf to help you find and work with other texts. If you are just a buff interested in a little light reading on WW1, go elsewhere.	2001-12-27
US	51942755	R2HXWR0EY0ANLN	038549503X	65095566	One Market Under God: Extreme Capitalism, Market Populism and the End of Economic Democracy	Books	3	9	14	N	Y	Good politics, bad social critique	I enjoyed reading the book, but found it to be terribly overstated at times. Frank is dead on with his message that economic democracy is not plutocracy, and that plutocracy was exactly the system that conservative and even centrist circles in the United States have been trying to get us to accept for some time. However, as a social critique the book overreaches and badly at that. As a critic of the &quot;culture industry,&quot; and reading many of the same publications that his cited articles and op-eds appeared in (and usually loathing the same authors), I do not see the propaganda tidal wave that he did. On this note, the book is propaganda about propaganda - entertaining, but to be looked at with a very skeptical eye.	2001-04-26
