US	51943235	R3IMFAQEGQ6ZNT	0375508473	67444811	The Survivor: Bill Clinton in the White House	Books	5	14	24	N	Y	NOT A TOTALLY BALANCED BOOK ON THE CLINTONS	John Harris comes across as someone who has liberal leanings -- gee, he works for the Washington Post so that is a pretty good hint -- and his approach to this book was fairly obvious.  He wanted to write a book on how the Clinton \\"Revolution\\" changed Washington, the government, and politics as we know it.  He wanted to write such a book but in the end he came up short, way short.  There were just too many glaring holes in the Clinton mystique that any objective author -- and I think Mr. Harris was trying to be objective -- could not ignore.  Perhaps he hoped Bill Clinton would be the liberal Democrats version of a Ronald Reagan.  If so he was disappointed.  I agree with Brit Hume's summation that \\"John Harris reaches a generally favorable verdict on Bill Clinton, but there is no lack of evidence that could lead to a different conclusion\\". <br /> <br />\\"The Survivor\\" is definitely a readable book that tries to balance out the negatives and positives of the Clinton Administration.  However I thought the book glossed over some of the pivotal points of those eight years.  He writes little about such high profile events as the assault on the David Koresh compound in Waco in 1993 and the follow on Oklahoma City bombing in 1995, the Republican landslide in 1994, the government shutdowns in late 1995 and early 1996, and the 1996 election campaign. <br /> <br />Harris recognized the failings of Bill Clinton and his Administration.  The trials and tribulations over Whitewater, Travelgate, and other improprieties all gave the perception of corruption.  His actions in trying to dismiss the Paula Jones controversy that mushroomed into the Monica Lewinsky controversy gave the perception of someone who was a liar.  But I think Harris gives the Clintons too much of a benefit of a doubt.  Harris's summation of Clinton's perceived corruption was perhaps best phrased on page 408 where he writes about the President's troubled relationship with FBI Direct Louis Freeh -- whom Harris felt should have been fired -- \\"Freeh's suspicions to the contrary, Clinton was not a corrupt public servant.  But on matters ranging from Whitewater to fund-raising to Monica Lewinsky, he had followed a pattern of limited disclosure, evasive or false public explanations, and shabby personal contact that made suspicion far from unreasonable.\\"  And the definition of is \\"is\\"...? <br /> <br />Overall this is a good book that I debated over giving four or five stars.  Clinton defenders may find this book a betrayal of the former President while Clinton detractors may find this book a glossing over of a potentially fatally flawed presidency.  However I decided not to penalize him because he slanted his conclusions differently from how I think the conclusions should have been.  This is an overall good book and the reader can draw their own conclusions.  His book displayed the Clinton Administration -- warts and all. <br /> <br />John Harris would not demonize the Clintons nor could he deify the Clintons.	2005-09-17
US	51943235	R2BUP6Q4400OGF	192963109X	565412879	Hitler and His Generals: Military Conferences 1942-1945	Books	5	15	17	N	N	IMPORTANT PIECE OF WORK	As with other reviewers I found this book to be largely bland and boring.  I am sure similar transcripts of American, British, and Soviet conferences (I would love to see some of the Soviet transcripts with Stalin if any exists) would also be pretty bland. <br /> <br />The vast majority of the transcripts were destroyed at the end of the war and these 700+ pages represents only a small minority of the conferences.  There are few highlights.  The first conference in the book is about the time a crisis was developing in Stalingrad.  Shortly thereafter it jumps to a conference where word has just come in stating Field Marshal Paulus had surrendered and the participants were speculating over whether that was true and the Fuhrer declaring he would never appoint another field marshal.  (He did appoint others however after that declaration).  The transcripts included some planning sessions for what became the Battle of Kursk -- the largest tank battle in history -- and the Germans trying to respond to the overthrow of Mussolini in Italy.  There were some planning sessions before and during the Battle of the Bulge.  Probably the most interesting remnants, though, were the last conferences in the Berlin Bunker in late Apr 1945.   But other key transcripts were missing and are probably gone forever.  These include the D-Day invasion, the attempted assassination on 20 Jul 1944, and his last conference before taking his life.  But for the most part I would guesstimate that about 90 percent of the book was about troop movements, weapons, and other mundane issues that are discussed at military conferences and briefings -- and not just German conferences in WW II. <br /> <br />These transcripts do not record the actions or atmosphere these conferences transpired in.  There are no references to the Fuhrer jumping on a table and screeching obscenities and threats at his staff with veins popping out of his neck.  These are just the spoken words of the Fuhrer and his staff in black and white.  Most of what his generals and other senior military staff wrote after the war blamed him for what happened to Germany but these transcripts show that he was not quite the lunatic they made him out to be. <br /> <br />In some respects these transcripts offer some vindication for Hitler.  Historically he comes off as some kind of lunatic who destroyed his country by refusing to work with his generals.  Although he did destroy his country -- and millions of other Europeans along with it -- he comes off as mostly a fairly knowledgeable person.  For example the historical image of the man is somebody who in the face of impossible odds refused to order troops to withdraw to better positions.  Yet throughout this book Hitler is aware of the situation at the front and often concurs with withdrawals and retreats -- something the Germans did a lot of after 1942. <br /> <br />There were 2029 footnotes that were distracting but mostly important for the reader.  There are references to personalities and events that would mean nothing to the reader but meant something to the participants at the time.  However it was annoying having to flip between the text and the footnotes at the end of the book.  However I cannot think of any better way for the editors to present these notes.  I probably read about 10 percent of the footnotes. <br /> <br />Overall this is a good book for history buffs like myself.  It was mostly boring but it is good not for its content but for its overall significance in giving a peek into what was going on in the military planning sessions of the Third Reich as it was in full retreat to its ultimate demise.	2005-07-26
US	51943235	R323A9GH5O0UFK	0306806983	601885899	Death Dealer: The Memoirs of the SS Kommandant at Auschwitz	Books	5	19	46	N	Y	IT WAS NOT HOESS' FAULT	There is another autobiography of Hoess titled \\"Commandant of Auschwitz:  The Autobiography of Rudolf Hoess\\".  I would be interested in reading that account but am curious how that could differ from \\"Death Dealer\\".  Given the circumstances the man at the end of his life did not have a whole lot of time to write different autobiographies.  My guess is the two books are essentially the same. <br /> <br />As for Death Dealer itself it is not often one reads an account of the concentration camps from the \\"other side\\".  I had read other summaries that portrayed Hoess as a mid-level cold-hearted bureaucrat whose account of his SS career was pretty much emotionless and he treated his activities in the same manner an accountant or a department store manager or a mechanic or (pick a career) would describe their career.  I thought before reading the book that whatever one may say about him he would at least not grovel for forgiveness and would defiantly flip his middle finger at the world before climbing the steps of the gallows.  After all, when he wrote his memoirs in 1946 and 1947, there was little suspense over what his fate would be.  So sugar coating his past was not going to change his future. <br /> <br />Although there may have been some shred of decency in the man one could not escape the feeling that he recognized himself as a war criminal only because his captors called him a war criminal.  In other words his \\"mea culpa\\" would probably not score high on the sincerity scale.  The victorious Allies were the new authorities over his life and if they considered him guilty and a war criminal then he was guilty and a war criminal.  Whether he personally thought so or not was not relevant.  And that was pretty much how he conducted his life.  Whoever his authority was pretty much controlled his life.  He was the commandant of the most notorious of all Nazi death camps because his superiors made him the commandant.  He killed because he was told to kill -- just as he wasto die because he was told he had to die. <br /> <br />He admitted the horrible conditions of Auschwitz -- and other camps.  It was not Hoess' fault.  His superiors -- starting with Hitler and Himmler -- put impossible demands on him and did not provide adequate resources.  The conditions were horrible and only got worse as the war progressed due to the lack of resources due to the stranglehold the Allies put on Germany.  It was not Hoess' fault.  The inadequate resources included inadequate officers, staff, and guards who committed many atrocities for which he had little or no control.  It was not Hoess' fault.  The inadequate resources included inadequate building material, latrines, barrack space, food, water, sanitation system, and medical supplies.  It was not Hoess' fault.  The concentration camp administration reflected the ideals of Thomas Eicke, the founder of the concentration camp system.  It was not Hoess' fault. <br /> <br />Although the man blamed others for the nightmarish hell of Auschwitz and other concentration camps he accepted responsibility because it was engrained into him that the commandant is responsible for all activities within the concentration camp. <br /> <br />This may be as close as one may come to reading an account of the \\"other side\\".  Although one's opinion of the Holocaust may not be altered by Rudolf Hoess he does share insight that one normally does not see about this dark chapter of the history of humanity.  Most people know what it is like to be over tasked and under resourced.  But most people do not know what it is like to be over tasked and under resourced in his particular career field.	2005-05-01
US	51943235	R1BR4KGRUDEOHO	0896723917	567953582	Dachau 29 April 1945: The Rainbow Liberation Memoirs	Books	3	4	9	N	Y	BECAME REPETITIVE	In defense of the members of the division that contributed to this book I doubt many were professional writers.  They provided a remembrance of something bad they had experienced in their life.  Of course, one could argue they had many bad experiences during the war but what they saw on 29 Apr 45 and immediately thereafter may have been their worse experience. <br /> <br />The problem I had with the book is everybody remembered much of the same things.  After awhile it got very repetitive and boring. <br /> <br />I do not recall reading many accounts of some of the less noble actions I have read elsewhere about their actions on that day.  The troops in many instances conveniently looked in another direction when the inmates got their hands on their former guards.  I understand some Americans themselves took part in summary executions of some guards.  Although maybe technically \\"illegal\\" I cannot say I would have acted differently nor do I condemn the troops for allowing these things to happen given the circumstances.	2005-04-28
US	51943235	RH0YI1HNKMP54	1587420031	189191069	Dachau Liberated : The Official Report	Books	2	2	4	N	Y	SAVE YOUR MONEY	In defense of whoever wrote this report in 1945 they probably were not professional writers nor did they expect their report to be offered to the public 50+ years later.  For that reason I gave the book two stars instead of one.  This is a very dry, unemotional, bland report that is rather disjointed. <br /> <br />Although I did not expect a professional effort I had expected something substantive -- maybe more along the lines of a description of the advance upon the town of Dachau, the capturing of the camp, the surrender of the German guards left behind, the actions taken against the Germans (including summary executions and reprisals by the inmates), and the liberation of the survivors.  Instead it is a very dry attempt to explain the camp organization and what occurred there. <br /> <br />The report was written only days after the liberation and contributes nothing to an understanding about the camp, the inmates, the guards, and the activities surrounding the liberation of the camp.  Its historical value is only in when it was written and from where.   Otherwise there was no value to this book.	2005-04-28
US	51943235	R11P8DNWXWLC7E	0974537616	164161415	A National Party No More: The Conscience of a Conservative Democrat	Books	2	10	29	N	Y	Grossly Overrated	This is supposedly a condemnation of the Democratic Party and a prescription for how they can heal themselves.  Instead it is more of a treatise of Zell Miller's life and philosophy.  The reviewers say the Democratic Party would do well to heed his warnings but his warnings are buried somewhere in over 230 pages of remembrances.  I doubt the Democratic Party would listen to his prescription but he could have done a better job articulating that prescription. <br /> <br />Overall a very weak and disappointing book.	2005-01-18
US	51943235	RTZYOFFS3XC5H	0826212026	656797553	The Strange Deaths of President Harding	Books	4	4	9	N	Y	NOT A VERY EXCITING BOOK	This is an attempt to look at President Harding from a different perspective.  The general opinion is that this man was one of the worse presidents this country has every had.  Although Mr. Ferrell does not try to totally reverse this opinion and make President Harding out to be a great president he does attempt to explain how the Harding Administration was a reflection of the 1920s and what the people wanted and needed from their government.<br />The many &quot;deaths&quot; relates first to his physical death.  President Harding was -- contrary to what his aides wanted people to believe -- not a well man and had a severe heart condition.  He went on a tour to the west coast and was so beaten down physically that he was laid up on bed rest for several days with reports on his conditions being monitored by the news media.  The first couple of days the reports were grim and then suddenly the reports became optimistic.  Then, just as suddenly the man was dead.<br />The other deaths of President Harding relates to the death of his image.  He reportedly had affairs and illegitimate children.  His name was mired in the Teapot Dome Scandal.  His accomplishments were diminished by the events that followed his administration.  In the end most President Harding's accomplishments were forgotten and so, too, was President Harding.	2004-07-17
US	51943235	R67YBSBP0R4BO	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	2	14	21	N	Y	CONSERVATIVE GARBAGE	When I was in high school taking a Speech class we spent part of a quarter learning debating skills.  Then the students paired up into teams.  Myself and my partner debated another team on a hot topic of the day with our team taking the con argument meaning we were opposed to a particular proposal.  Our team lost -- badly.  My partner was guilty of waffling to the point the teacher could not tell which side he was on.  As for myself I threw a few insults jokingly at the other side.  Apparently I got so caught up in being funny that I did not get my point across.  Rather than presenting the argument -- and we did have a good argument -- I was so absorbed with playing the role of a Don Rickles that the teacher later told me that if that had been an officially sanctioned debate I would have been disqualified.  I was stunned as I did not realize how off the mark I strayed.<br />This book reminds me very much of that unhappy event in my high school academic career.  There is much to say in favor of the conservative cause and there are many reasons to be critical of the liberal cause and especially how the liberal media slanders conservativism.  But there are very sound intellectual soundness in the conservative movement.  Instead, Ms. Coulter seems more absorbed in hurling insults and yelling with printed words than in presenting the conservative cause.  Maybe within conservative social circles many people may applaud her pomposity -- just as someone like Michael Moore or Al Franken (who, by the way, I consider a very humorous entertainer when he stays out of politics) may be applauded in liberal social circles for their pomposity -- but if her purpose was to sell conservativism and to demonstrate that there is more to the cause than being opposed to liberalism then she, as was the case with myself in high school many years ago, strayed well off the mark.<br />Ann is a smart person.  But smart people can do, say, and write dumb things.  \\"Slander\\" is an example of a smartperson writing a dumb book.	2004-07-10
US	51943235	R3KQT4O8HWUKCT	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	2	7	13	N	Y	CONSERVATIVE GARBAGE	When I was in high school taking a Speech class we spent part of a quarter learning debating skills.  Then the students paired up into teams.  Myself and my partner debated another team on a hot topic of the day with our team taking the con argument meaning we were opposed to a particular proposal.  Our team lost -- badly.  My partner was guilty of waffling to the point the teacher could not tell which side he was on.  As for myself I threw a few insults jokingly at the other side.  Apparently I got so caught up in being funny that I did not get my point across.  Rather than presenting the argument -- and we did have a good argument -- I was so absorbed with playing the role of a Don Rickles that the teacher later told me that if that had been an officially sanctioned debate I would have been disqualified.  I was stunned as I did not realize how off the mark I strayed.<br />This book reminds me very much of that unhappy event in my high school academic career.  There is much to say in favor of the conservative cause and there is many reasons to be critical of the liberal cause and especially how the liberal media slanders conservativism.  But there are very sound intellectual soundness in the conservative movement.  Instead, Ms. Coulter seems more absorbed in hurling insults and yelling with printed words than in presenting the conservative cause.  Maybe within conservative social circles many people may applaud her pomposity -- just as someone like Michael Moore or Al Franken (who, by the way, I consider a very humorous entertainer when he stays out of politics) may be applauded in liberal social circles for their pomposity -- but if her purpose was to sell conservativism and to demonstrate that there is more to the cause than being opposed to liberalism than she, as was the case with myself in high school many years ago, strayed well off the mark.<br />Ann is a smart person.  But smart people can do, say, and write dumb things.  \\"Slander\\" is an example of a smartperson writing a dumb book.	2004-07-10
US	51943235	R1FQ4IBG2M6OLL	0399121161	931284246	Final Entries 1945: The Diaries of Joseph Goebbels	Books	5	70	72	N	Y	JEKYLL AND HYDE - THE WAR YEARS - VOL 3	This was the third of three Goebbel War Year diaries that I bought and read.  Although not the easiest prose to read -- in part they were not written necessarily to be read but to be perhaps used in a memoir that was destined to never be written -- this and the other two diaries are fascinating books for people fascinated by that era.<br />This diary ends on 9 April 45.  According to the introduction he continued writing through at least 22 April 45 when he and his family moved into the bunker.  It would be interesting to read any additional entries through 22 April -- and beyond if available -- as the situation became more hopeless.  The book does, however, conclude with an epilogue that included his and his wife's last letters to his stepson, the only member of the Goebbels family to survive the war.<br />The term \\"Jekyll and Hyde\\" was easily applicable to the first diary and not as easily applicable to this diary.  However there term is somewhat applicable.  The man -- despite the obvious problems at the fronts -- still has hope.  Maybe the hope is flickering but he still has hope.  He does realize that military victory is now unattainable but maybe if the military can score one or two major successes they can finagle some kind of a negotiated settlement more favorable than \\"unconditional surrender\\".  This thought appears to be running through the Nazi government during the February - April 45 timeframe covered in the book.<br />Whereas in the previous two diaries great words are written about great events that resulted in great victories, this time Goebbels write great words about not so great events.  The brave German military puts up great resistance to stall an American, or a British, or a Soviet offensive.  Nazi forces counterattack and push eight or ten or twelve kilometers.  The war is not lost yet!  Why are such events important?  The longer the war goes on and the more casualties are inflicted upon the enemy maybe the people in the West will grow tired and more conciliatory towards a less than complete defeat of Germany.  Or maybe by stretching out the war maybe the Nazis can finagle a separate settlement with the Soviets.  Or maybe the western Allies will realize how dangerous the Soviets are -- who are, after all, spreading its Bolshevic tentacles over eastern Europe contrary to previous agreements.  Goebbels is hoping that something -- anything -- will happen to preclude what looks like an inevitable defeat.<br />Reading the book one realizes how little hold the government actually had over the people.  Even in the previous diaries there were criticisms of the government that was voiced by the people that Goebbels acknowledged.  Of course, in 1945 there was little the government could do.  The people were unhappy about the air raids for which the government generally and the Luftwaffe specifically had no answer.  Althought Goebbels still disliked several of his counterparts in the government like Foreign Minister Ribbentrop his greatest condemnation falls upon Hermann Goering.  He feels Goering's corrupt and inept leadership of the Luftwaffe is the main reason why victory that appeared so close in 1941 is now so far away in 1945.  Yet he still writes that even as late as April 1945 if there are major personnel changes in the military and the government National Socialism could still be saved in Germany.<br />He is not beyond criticizing is Fuehrer.  He still thinks Adolf Hitler himself can do no wrong.  The problem is that Adolf Hitler has surrounded himself with wrong people and for whatever reasons will not get rid of them.  Although Hitler agrees with almost all of Goebbels suggestions for fixing the government Hitler does virtually nothing.  Goebbels is frustrated.<br />It is also interesting how his attitude toward the inferior Slavic Soviet forces has evolved.  He is still convinced the Soviet military is -- man for man -- inferior to the German soldier.  But the Germans are being overwhelmed by superior numbers and machinery being thrown at them by the Allies.  But he is impressed with Stalin.  Once upon a time he and others had scorned Stalin for the massive purges of the Soviet military in the late 1930s.  At one point in the book he relates reviewing the biographies of the leading Soviet military leaders.  The Soviet military leaders were all under the age of 50 and were die-hard Bolshevics who would do anything to win.  This was a big reason why the Soviets survived the seemingly hopeless situation in 1941 and why they were winning the war in 1945.  In contrast, the German military leaders were old and had no deep political or philosopical ties to National Socialism.  If they won the war, great.  If not, oh well.  Goebbels concludes that maybe Stalin was not so crazy for purging his military and after the war the Nazis should do likewise with their military.<br />The popular perception of Hitler and his entourage is they were living in an insane fantasy land as the Soviets closed in on Berlin.  Unfortunately, the last three weeks of Goebbels life were missing so maybe there was some degree of truth to that perception.  But in the book you see a somewhat different view.  Yes the war was going bad but he had to grasp at some kind of hope -- whatever that may be.  Goebbels recognized that if the end is near it would be a catastrophic defeat.  Therefore his only hope was to stretch the war out as long as possible and hope for some miracle.  Hitler himself is not so much a ranting, raving lunatic (many of the accounts of Hitler's final days were written by witnesses who were the target of his anger and thus had a reason for depicting his as insane) as a man who is angry with his generals but is resigned to his fate.<br />As we know, neither Joseph Goebbels nor his Fuehrer survived the war and neither man was able to write their autobiographies explaining why they did what they did.  Perhaps the closest thing to a Hitler autobiography would be Mein Kampf that depictedhis early life and early political battles through 1924 and his \\"Table Talks\\" -- a series of monologues recorded between 1942 and 1944.  For his Propaganda Minister these diaries is the closest we can probably hope to find to an autobiography.  These \\"autobiographies\\" may be distorted but they are distorted in their own words.	2004-05-08
US	51943235	R1V3AR0INIV7Z9	0441295509	593469677	The Goebbel's Diaries	Books	5	12	13	N	N	JEKYLL AND HYDE - THE WAR YEARS - VOL 2	I have bought the Goebbel diaries for 1939 - 1941, 1942 - 1943, and 1945.  The diaries from 1942 - 1943 were apparently the first available and Louis P. Lockner did an admirable job in compiling these.  I especially appreciated his notes at the end of certain paragraphs providing the reader insights about what Goebbels was referring to.  That was a lot more convenient than footnotes or endnotes at the end of the chapter or book.  The book I received was published in 1948 and was still in excellent condition.<br />The reader must realize that this was the first set of diaries released after the war and there were many gaps -- sometimes large gaps of maybe six months -- for which entries may have later been found.  Among the more significant entries missing were the period of late 1942 - early 1943.  There were a couple of entries referring to difficulties at Stalingrad but diary entries showing the progressingly worsening situation were not available.  Conversely, there were entries showing the Nazi government's reaction to the overthrow of Mussolini in Italy and his subsequent rescue and early attempts of him to reestablish a Facist government in northern Italy.  Goebbels attitude toward Italy continued to be negative as the Italian military was more helpless than helpful.  His attitude toward Mussolini deteriorated when he realized what a has-been Mussolini was.<br />The term \\"Jekyll and Hyde\\" is appropriate for this version although for different reasons than in the 1939 - 1941 diaries.  In the 39 - 41 diaries Goebbels portrayed himself as a loving husband and father.  In the 1942 - 43 diary the family was scarcely mentioned.<br />Between the end of the 1939 - 1941 diary -- 8 Jul 41 -- and the beginning of these diaries in early 1942 a lot transpired.  When the first diary ended Goebbels was still wondering how much longer the British could hold out and marveling at the German military juggernaut rolling towards victory in the Soviet Union.  During the gap, however, things took a radical change.  The juggernaut got bogged down in a severe winter, the Soviets mounted a massive counter-attack in front of Moscow that almost wiped out the Nazi front, the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, and the Nazis declared war on the United States.  Goebbels' attitude towards the war changed accordingly.<br />In 1942 the Propaganda Minister was still convinced that the victory that eluded them in 1941 could still be obtained in 1942.  But he recognized 1942 as a critical year.  Early in the year things are going well for the Japanese and the Nazis have recovered from their first major defeat and were preparing for what they hoped to be the final crushing offensive against the Soviets.  Whereas in the first diary he had the task of controlling the German citizens' anticipation of a glorious victory while keeping their morale high, now he does not have to worry about the citizens over inflated expectations.  Now he has to worry about them becoming too demoralized.  Whereas Allied bombing raids in the first diary were a nuisance now they are beginning to inflict devastating carnage on German cities.<br />The jump to 1943 shows an even more dramatic shift in Goebbels' outlook on the war.  Although he still writes of a final victory it is obvious his statements are hollow even to himself.  He realizes now that the Soviets have recovered and the Germans are in deep trouble.  The bombing raids from the west are getting worse and the German Luftwaffe is incapable of mounting any credible defense.  He is beginning to write about possible negotiations with the Soviets to end the war although he realize that is a long shot at best.  But a political solution appears to be the one way out as the military is no longer the juggernaut but is fast becoming a worn out shell of its former self.  In one entry he notes the Japanese announcing a \\"successful evacuation\\" and wonders how many more \\"successful evacuations\\" the Japanese or Germans can mount and still haveany hope of winning the war.  He is depressed by what all had been lost between 1942 and 1943.<br />The evolution between the first diary and the 1942 - 1943 diary is incredible to read.  In the 1939 - 41 diary the constant theme is how much longer can the British hold out.  By the end of the 1942 - 1943 diary the theme is how much longer can the Germans hold out.any hope of winning the war.  He is depressed by what all had been lost between 1942 and 1943.<br />The evolution between the first diary and the 1942 - 1943 diary is incredible to read.  In the 1939 - 41 diary the constant theme is how much longer can the British hold out.  By the end of the 1942 - 1943 diary the theme is how much longer can the Germans hold out.	2004-04-25
US	51943235	R1P91BIE7BBL1U	0399127631	250506595	The Goebbels Diaries 1939-1941	Books	5	22	24	N	Y	JEKYLL AND HYDE - THE WAR YEARS - VOL 1	I have just completed this book and will soon start on his diary covering 1942 - 1943.<br />The book took a little getting use to with its style and content.  The book itself was not written for publication.  He wrote on 30 March 1941 \\"I have my diaries, twenty fat volumnes, deposited in the underground vault of the Reichsbank.  They are too valuable to be allowed to fall victim to some air raid.  They provide a picture of my entire life and our times.  If fate allows me a few years for the task, I intend to edit them for the sake of future generations.  They may well be of some interest to the world at large.\\"<br />There were, regrettably, some interesting events that were not in this book for whatever reasons.  The book opens in early 1939 with a few entries and then jumps all the way to October 1939.  During this time the Nazis negotiated a non-aggression treaty with the Soviet Union and the war started with the German successful invasion of Poland.  Other notable missing events include the Scandinavia campaign of April 1940 and the defeat of France.<br />However other events are not missing.  The propaganda minister's view of the \\"phony war\\" of 1939 - 1940 is recorded here along with the Nazis' impression of the Soviet war with Finland.  Goebbels writes about their Italians allies in an insulting manner -- deservedly so -- because of their bumbling military adventures in the Balkans.  The book covers the Nazis' invasion of the Balkans and Greece -- mainly to rescue the Italians and the early days of the north African campaign.  He almost daily records the war with England and is convinced that with all the ships being sunk and the Luftwaffe constantly pounding England it is only a matter of time before the Germans will win.  Another interesting event was when Rudolf Hess, a man he had great respect and admiration for, flew to England and almost instantly became persona non grata.  Even more importantly, the book covers the preparation for Adolf Hitler's greatest gamble -- the war with the Soviet Union.  The book covers the first few weeks of that adventure before ending in early July 1941.<br />The book gives an almost daily insight to the German government in the first two years of the war.  Goebbels had to walk a tightrope in managing public morale.  The Germans wanted peace but also victory.  Goebbels had to keep morale high even when times were hard but also had to keep expectations of victory contained when victory seemed so close after the fall of France.  The book also shows petty squabbles within the German government -- especially with the Foreign Ministry in general and Foreign Minister Ribbentrop specifically.<br />I call this Jekyll and Hyde because Goebbels also presents a very human and loving side in this diary.  Despite some marital difficulties with his wife, Magda, he shows great affection and respect for her and all but worshipped his children.  It is hard to see a man who loves his family so much being such a hateful man when it came to Jews.  Most anti-Semites may hate Jews but not to the same level that Goebbels and the rest of Hitler's henchmen would.<br />The biggest problem I had with the book was the book itself.  The seller described the book as being in acceptable condition.  If so the seller had a low standard of acceptability.  When I unpacked the book parts of the book was already loose and threatening to fall apart.  The act of reading the book such as turning pages was almost too much for the book to handle.t gamble -- the war with the Soviet Union.  The book covers the first few weeks of that adventure before ending in early July 1941.<br />The book gives an almost daily insight to the German government in the first two years of the war.  Goebbels had to walk a tightrope in managing public morale.  The Germans wanted peace but also victory.  Goebbels had to keep morale high even when times were hard but also had to keep expectations of victory contained when victory seemed so close after the fall of France.  The book also shows petty squabbles within the German government -- especially with the Foreign Ministry in general and Foreign Minister Ribbentrop specifically.<br />I call this Jekyll and Hyde because Goebbels also presents a very human and loving side in this diary.  Despite some marital difficulties with his wife, Magda, he shows great affection and respect for her and all but worshipped his children.  It is hard to see a man who loves his family so much being such a hateful man when it came to Jews.  Most anti-Semites may hate Jews but not to the same level that Goebbels and the rest of Hitler's henchmen would.<br />The biggest problem I had with the book was the book itself.  The seller described the book as being in acceptable condition.  If so the seller had a low standard of acceptability.  When I unpacked the book parts of the book was already loose and threatening to fall apart.  The act of reading the book such as turning pages was almost too much for the book to handle.	2004-04-10
US	51943235	R3859LZ8AABHHQ	0026271915	848160507	A Payroll to Meet: A Story of Greed, Corruption, and Football at SMU	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	WORTH THE EFFORT OF FINDING THIS BOOK	This is a hard book to track down but I did so a couple of years ago and it was a worthwhile effort.  My interest in what happened to SMU was enhanced largely from the recent controversies and issues my favorite college football team, the University of Alabama, has had with the NCAA.  From what I understand about Bama's problems, they were nowhere in the ballpark of the corruption that was allowed to infect the SMU football program in the 1970s and 1980s.<br />I remember well how Arkansas and Texas raced far ahead of the rest of the Southwest Conference in the 1960s and 1970s and other programs were left in the dust.  It was not uncommon to see teams like TCU, Texas Tech, and SMU on the short end of a 52-7 game.  But a curious thing happened.  These teams, particularly SMU, suddenly started moving up in the world and became very competitive.  But their return to prominence was done in ways that attracted not only fans, but NCAA investigators as well.  It seemed like SMU in particular could not escape the scrutiny as they continuously got slapped by the NCAA.  Other programs in the Southwest Conference also got slapped but SMU seemed to almost take masochistic delight in getting slapped by the NCAA.  Then the NCAA instituted the infamous &quot;death penalty&quot; and even then the school seemed to dare the NCAA to apply it.  Interestingly enough, the book recounts how previous deals with players along with SMU's ability to previously hide the depth of its corruption made it almost impossible to clean the program without getting caught one last time.  Deals were made to pay players that SMU felt compelled to abide by for fear the players would squeal.  Once those players were gone (graduated or otherwise), SMU was working to clean the program.  But they had to keep that last vestige of corruption in the closet.  Unfortunately, it came out and SMU football was gone for a couple of years.  SMU has never fully recovered.<br />I would love to find a couple of other booksthat are related to this.  I would love to find a good book on the demise of the once mighty Southwest Conference.  I know the corruption and problems the schools had with the NCAA contributed to the conference's demise but there were other factors as well.<br />A second book I would love to read will be an accounting of the issues surrounding my beloved Alabama Crimson Tide.  They, too, got burned by the NCAA but evidence has been surfacing lately that the NCAA investigators may well have been guilty of less than noble practices and there were other aspects of the investigation that could have and should have gotten other schools investigated for misbehavior.  Evidence now surfacing seems to support Alabama's claim that they were punished too harshly while others got off with nothing.  But such a book, if it is published, will be some time in the future.	2004-03-09
US	51943235	R2WNYFHSY2MT9H	0688149553	621219797	Mash: A Novel About Three Army Doctors	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	DIFFERENT FROM MOVIE AND TV	As long ago as this book came out and with all the different iterations of MASH it was only recently that I picked up a copy of the book that started it all.<br />Knowing the movie was based on the book I found myself surprised by how much the movie differed from the book.  However many of the differences were perhaps necessary as the book had too many characters to track in a movie and some of the story lines were altered.  For example, the Major Burns of the movie and TV show was a composite of several characters in the book.  The part where the dentist contemplated suicide had a slightly different and cleaner plot line in the book than in the movie.  The book jumped around alot and for that reason I had trouble giving it five stars.<br />Interestingly enough, although he made money off the TV series, I understand Richard Hooker was not a fan of the show.  His book was a spoof of the military and the strange ways the military did things during the Korean War (and since the Korean War for that matter).  Mr. Hooker supported our effort in Korea and felt the war -- however terrible -- was justified.  The series -- especially the last few years -- degenerated into a pacifist anti-war message.<br />If I were to rate the different iterations of MASH I would rate it in the following order:  1.  The movie was great;  2.  The first four or five years of the TV series before it decided to preach pacifism;  3.  The original book;  4.  The last several years of the show when personally I could not wait for it to end.	2004-03-08
US	51943235	RAM40ZYNEY2AW	1582790310	762726224	Adolf Hitler-A Chilling Tale of Propaganda	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	LET THE READER BEWARE	If you consider yourself an amateur history buff as I do, and is fascinated by tyrants such as Adolf Hitler or Joseph Stalin, this book is one that should interest you.<br />There are many pictures that one will normally not see nowadays.  Pictures of happy Germans fawning over their Fuehrer.  The writing is stilted and bad.  But it is interesting in how different writers were so uniform in their deification of one man.  Under normal circumstances this book would not rate one or two stars due to the poor writing style but the importance and significance of this book makes these a good book for one's collection.  But only if the reader has an interest in such drivel.<br />If one is to believe Joseph Goebbels, the German people loved their Fuehrer in 1936.  But did the German people love their Fuehrer in 1946?	2004-03-07
US	51943235	R2CO67BTKVZJ43	0684856158	522249058	TV Land To Go: The Big Books of TV Lists, TV Lore, and TV Bests	Books	2	2	2	N	Y	CLASSIC TV BUT NOT A CLASSIC BOOK	This book is a collection of lists.  But many of the lists are nonsense lists that are just cute attempts at humor.<br />The highlight of the book was the 100 greatest sitcom episodes.  Even if I could figure out their formula the list is at best controversial.  As another reviewer indicated some of the episodes that made it made no sense to me.  The number one episode in the list was not even, in my opinion, the number one show for the series.  It was a good episode but ...<br />TV Land is a great network.  &quot;TV Land To Go&quot; is not a great book.	2004-01-18
US	51943235	R212KSUGLB2S1H	0805065377	92302129	Eight Men Out: The Black Sox and the 1919 World Series	Books	5	4	5	N	N	CLASSIC	Easily one of the finest books on baseball history I have read.  I saw the movie in the late 1980s and have always been fascinated by the motivations that would prompt the players to risk their careers.  Although Asinof does not excuse the players he also puts a lot of blame on Charles Cominsky and other individuals -- not just the gamblers -- who either were aware that something strange was going on or tried to cover it up.	2004-01-18
US	51943235	R11NDS366579FK	1932270108	799486490	Sixteen Minutes from Home: The Columbia Space Shuttle Tragedy	Books	1	6	13	N	Y	CHEAP EXPLOITATION OF A TRAGEDY	Nothing new to be learned from this book.  It reads like something the author rushed out shortly after the tragedy to capitalize on the grief of the nation.	2003-12-26
US	51943235	R3L5Z2ZTVFLXBP	0312321619	312432486	Four Days in November: The Original Coverage of the John F. Kennedy Assassination	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	HISTORY'S FIRST DRAFT	This is a hard book to review as I feel I am critiquing articles that were probably never meant to be critiqued by the public.  This is, as described in the preface or introduction, history's first draft.  It is history in its rawest form and it shows.<br />I did not expect to learn anything new about the assassination.  This book captures the moment of tragedy as it happened and how the reporters responded to the challenge.  Yes, there were inaccuracies in the reports.  Yes, there was a lot of eulogizing over the fallen president.  Yes, there was a lot of speculation about the man to replace him.  Yes, there was a lot of downplaying the tensions between JFK and LBJ and, more importantly, the tensions between Bobby Kennedy and LBJ.  Yes, there was a lot of speculation about their future that is now part of our past (e.g., the 1964 election, LBJ's ability to pass legislation that JFK could not, Vietnam, etc.).  But all that was to be expected and that was part of the intrique with the book.  For example, I found the very first article by Tom Wicker very revealing.  It was, in my opinion, disjointed and poorly organized -- an article that under normal circumstances would have been heavily edited before being put into a newspaper.  But those were not normal circumstances.<br />I often find it fascinating reading old magazine or newspaper articles written by people who have no clue as to what the future would hold while I, as the reader, do have a clue.  I thought the publishers should have included articles from the 22 Nov 63 edition about the presidential party's activities on the previous day to show the sense of normalcy the writers were in as the covered JFK's swing through Texas.  Then a reader could contrast that normalcy with the shock and grief that was to follow.<br />Yes, this may be a cheap effort by the publishers of the New York Times to capitalize on the 40th anniversary of President Kennedy's death.  But it is still a good historical reference.	2003-12-26
US	51943235	R33DEGZUSOBQJU	0810980835	644139913	The Complete Book of M*A*S*H	Books	2	9	15	N	Y	Concur With Mr. Geisler	This was a lame book that gives very little behind the scenes of the show.  She may have worked hard to view every episode and review most or all the scripts but Ms. Kalter gave very little insight that a MASH buff (and I am not one of those) would not have known already.	2003-12-26
US	51943235	R1PVBKEDM8EM0L	0967378508	692636503	Growing Up Brady: I Was a Teenage Greg, Special Collector's Edition	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	DECENT, HONEST APPRAISAL OF SHOW	Unlike Sherwood Schwartz, Barry Williams offers an honest appraisal of the Brady Bunch.  Schwartz's account of the show and the failed sequels tend to blame others (e.g., network brass) for the failures.  Among his excuses are bad scheduling and network interference.  Maybe dismal scripts also had something to do with it, Sherwood.  At least Barry calls a spade a spade.  He recognized the quality of the scripts declined over the years and were absolutely dreadful in the sequels (Robert Reed (Papa Brady) would have said the scripts were bad to begin with).	2003-04-19
US	51943235	R1CIJL3YGEUJMN	0743508416	389998837	Reaching for Glory: Lyndon Johnson's Secret  White House Tapes, 1964-1965	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	NEW APPRECIATION OF JOHNSON	In rating a book I feel I am usually rating the author as well.  However, in books such as this that is based upon transcripts it is hard to truly rate the author.  Mr. Beschloss' contribution was limited to doing research to explain the circumstances of the transcripts, choosing the transcripts to use, and the tedious task of transcribing.  Original thought, though, is not part of the book.  The actual content was provided by Lyndon Johnson and many of the major government movers and shakers of the mid-1960s.<br />I was a little disappointed and surprised at how \\"sanitized\\" the tapes were.  I had always thought Johnson's vocabulary was one of the more profane and obscene of all presidents but in both this book and in \\"Taking Charge\\" you do not see much evidence of this.<br />As I read the transcripts I gained a new appreciation for the man.  Although I inherited a dislike for the Kennedys and LBJ from my parents, I found myself impressed with many aspects of LBJ.  Unlike many others then and now, he was not awed by the Kennedys -- he feared them but was not awed by them.  I thought the transcripts of his conversations with Jackie Kennedy in the weeks after the assassination (left out of \\"Taking Charge\\" at the request of the Kennedy family) were interesting and even flirtatious as he tried to woo her and keep her friendly while Bobby was becoming less friendly.<br />I was impressed with the progression into that nightmare in southeast Asia as the President, his senior staff, and Congressional leaders all saw little good coming out of the Vietnam adventure, yet despite their misgivings could not avoid it.  There were too many factors that made the decision to escalate that conflict the right choice in the mid-1960s although the risks were well known and the suspicions about the Joint Chiefs of Staff were apparent.  Many are critical of President Johnson for publicly proclaiming the conflict as winnable while privately proclaiming the conflict as unwinnable -- yet sending many brave men there anyway.  I still recall how the liberal news media proclaiming men such as Senators Church, McGovern, Fulbright, etc as being courageous for being critical of the administration's decision to escalate, but the decision to escalate was in itself was courageous.  I also know that Bobby Kennedy was critical of LBJ and that many of President Kennedy's aides and supporters have proclaimed that if JFK had been allowed to serve two full terms we would have pulled out and avoided the problems that LBJ put us through.  However, JFK was a politician too.  JFK was going to delay any major withdrawals until after the 1964 elections so as to avoid the specter of losing Vietnam during an election campaign.  After winning re-election, though, he may have felt compelled to maintain and escalate our involvement because the public was still supportive and to avoid the specter of losing Vietnam during the 1966 mid-term election campaign.  After 1966 he may have felt compelled to maintain and escalate our involvement because the public was still supportive and to avoid the specter of losing Vietnam during the 1968 election campaign to choose his successor.  And so it goes...<br />This book covers a short period of the Johnson years.  It covers the 1964 campaign and election, the Walter Jenkins sex scandal of October 1964, the crisis in the Dominican Republic in spring 1965, the gradual escalation of forces in Vietnam, etc.  I understand Mr. Beschloss is limiting this series to three books so the next book will have a lot to address including the 1966 mid-term elections, the continued escalation of Vietnam and increasing demonstrations against his policies there, race riots, the Pueblo incident, the TET offensive, his decision not to seek re-election, the campaign within the Democratic party to succeed him, the assassinations of Martin Luther King and Bobby Kennedy, the Chicago convention, the 1968 campaign, the transition to Richard Nixon, etc.  Wow!  That will be a lot to cover for one book!	2002-07-11
US	51943235	RTWAVUOW336NU	0306809974	38104890	The Autobiography Of Joseph Stalin: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	TYRANTS MAKE FASCINATING CHARACTERS	Most of my reading is non-fiction.  On the rare occasions I do read fiction, it is normally of the historical nature.  Very few fictions really catch and hold my attention.  This \\"autobiography\\" of the ultimate tyrant of the 20th century was one of those very few.<br />When I first got the book, I glanced through it and was initally disappointed that it did not include WW II and the post-war era.  I had expected the book to take the reader right up to Stalin's death in 1953.  However, once I got into the book I could understand Mr. Lourie's reasons for not going that far.<br />The book is about Stalin's obsession with his arch rival whom he had already exiled, Leon Trotsky.  He is fearful that a has-been could still jeopardize his iron grip over the USSR by revealing to the world Stalin's deepest and darkest secret -- deeper and darker than his other deep and dark secrets.  The book alternates between Stalin relating his biography and his plotting the demise of Trotsky.  The reader could gain an understanding of why he was what he was.<br />Although I can understand why Lourie ended the book with the end of Trotsky's life, I do hope there is a sequel.  At the risk that most sequels tend not to match the same level as the original, I would be interested in how Mr. Lourie would interpret Stalin's perception of the \\"Great Patriotic War\\", the early Cold War period, post WW2 purges, USSR's entry into the atomic era, etc.  Perhaps the sequel could take the reader right up to before Stalin's stroke that eventually ended his life.<br />Another approach may be to write a companion \\"autobiography\\" by Leon Trotsky leading up to that fateful day in August 1940 when Stalin's assassin killed him with an ax handle.<br />If Mr. Lourie or some other talented writer wanted to try a similar \\"autobiography\\" on other major historical personalities (e.g., Napoleon, Hitler, Lenin, Franklin Roosevelt, John Kennedy, etc.) I could be tempted to read such books.	2002-07-05
US	51943235	RSL661SRI1HK2	1880216892	235210097	Turnaround: Bear Bryant's 1st Year at Alabama	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	GOOD BUT NOT GREAT	This book is worthwhile for any hard-core fan of the Crimson Tide.  But if you are not there would be little here to interest you.<br />Another reviewer highly recommended &quot;The Junction Boys&quot;, a story of the nightmarish ten days that Bear Bryant ran his first Texas A&amp;M team through.  I agree that book was more interesting and more focused.  &quot;Turnaround&quot;, regrettably, does not have the same appeal and sense of being there that &quot;The Junction Boys&quot; did.  True, Bear Bryant was not the sweetest coach in the world in 1958, but after what he put his first Aggie team through I could not be awed with what his first Crimson Tide team went through.  Bear's first Aggie team appeared to have had it tougher -- which is why he considered that to be his favorite team in spite of the fact that was his only losing team (1-9) in his entire career.<br />There were a couple of interesting items about the book though.  First, J. B. &quot;Ears&quot; Whitworth preceded the Bear to Tuscaloosa and won only four games in three years.  I do not remember anything about &quot;Ears&quot; as I was too young and growing up in Alabama I never heard many references to those dark days in Crimson Tide history.  About the only reference to those days was that a quarterback who was hurt much of the time while at Alabama later went on to a somewhat more successful career in the NFL -- some guy named Bart Starr.  The book did devote the first chapter to the problems swirling around the Alabama football program during &quot;Ears&quot; less than successful three years.<br />The second item of interest is the description of the practice sessions.  Bear later mellowed considerably -- especially in the 1970s and when he was 15 - 20 years older and more experienced.  But he ran the program in a very controlled manner, attention to detail, well organized, mission oriented, stressing a strong conditioning program, never a wasted moment on the practice field, well motivated, and stressing academics.  I have read several descriptions of the current coach, Dennis Franchione, and although Coach Franchione was not a deciple of the Bear, he runs things in a very similar manner.  There are differences of course in that there are different rules and water breaks are no longer considered a sign of weakness.  But the basic ideas remain the same.  I hope Coach Franchione has similar success.	2002-06-27
US	51943235	R33CSLSEO18T7Q	1880216892	235210097	Turnaround: Bear Bryant's 1st Year at Alabama	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	GOOD BUT NOT GREAT	This book is worthwhile for any hard-core fan of the Crimson Tide.  But if you are not there would be little here to interest you.<br />Another reviewer highly recommended &quot;The Junction Boys&quot;, a story of the nightmarish ten days that Bear Bryant ran his first Texas A&amp;M team through.  I agree that book was more interesting and more focused.  &quot;Turnaround&quot;, regrettably, does not have the same appeal and sense of being there that &quot;The Junction Boys&quot; did.  True, Bear Bryant was not the sweetest coach in the world in 1958, but after what he put his first Aggie team through I could not be awed with what his first Crimson Tide team went through.  Bear's first Aggie team appeared to have had it tougher -- which is why he considered that to be his favorite team in spite of the fact that was his only losing team (1-9) in his entire career.<br />There were a couple of interesting items about the book though.  First, J. B. &quot;Ears&quot; Whitworth preceded the Bear to Tuscaloosa and won only four games in three years.  I do not remember anything about &quot;Ears&quot; as I was too young and growing up in Alabama I never heard many references to those dark days in Crimson Tide history.  About the only reference to those days was that a quarterback who was hurt much of the time while at Alabama later went on to a somewhat more successful career in the NFL -- some guy named Bart Starr.  The book did devote the first chapter to the problems swirling around the Alabama football program during &quot;Ears&quot; less than successful three years.<br />The second item of interest is the description of the practice sessions.  Bear later mellowed considerably -- especially in the 1970s and when he was 15 - 20 years older and more experienced.  But he ran the program in a very controlled manner, attention to detail, well organized, mission oriented, stressing a strong conditioning program, never a wasted moment on the practice field, well motivated, and stressing academics.  I have read several descriptions of the current coach, Dennis Franchione, and although Coach Franchione was not a deciple of the Bear, he runs things in a very similar manner.  There are differences of course in that there are different rules and water breaks are no longer considered a sign of weakness.  But the basic ideas remain the same.  I hope Coach Franchione has similar success.	2002-06-27
US	51943235	R29SV16JOZHKSD	0895262436	266973565	Sellout: The Inside Story of President Clinton's Impeachment	Books	3	14	16	N	Y	AGREED MOSTLY WITH AUTHOR BUT...	The book is unsurprisingly one-sided but surprisingly naive.  I personally believe the &quot;acquittal&quot; of the previous president was a mockery of justice but it was a foregone conclusion after the disappointing - for Republicans - results of the 1998 mid-term elections.<br />Mr. Schippers denounces the leadership of both parties.  However, I cannot understand how someone who grew up in the political environment of Chicago could possibly have been as naive as he apparently was.  Rightly or wrongly, impeachment is either as much as a political process as it is a legal process, perhaps even more so.  And when you are impeaching the highest elected official of the country one can expect it to be highly politicized.  In a perfect world, the leadership of both parties did not perform nobly.  But they each had their own constituencies they were working for.  It was in the Democrats interest after the November elections to save their President - warts and all.  It was in the Republicans interest to press on with the futile impeachment effort.<br />I think Mr. Schipper's problem may be that he was too close to what was going on to step back and see what others were seeing.  The Democrats succeeded in making the process and the &quot;prosecutors&quot; the issue and the liberal news media made a mockery of the brave individuals tasked to take the case to the Senate.  The Republican leadership saw what was happening and were able to proceed with the impeachment without long term harm to the party.  I recall in the immediate aftermath many political experts forcasting gloom and doom for the GOP in the 2000 elections.  Instead, impeachment faded from the radar scope.  Although the GOP took a few hits in the Senate, they retained control of the House and regained the White House -- something they might not have done had they ran against an incumbent Al Gore.<br />Another reviewer suggested Peter Baker's &quot;The Breach&quot;.  I am currently reading that book and can endorse that reviewer's recommendation.  I do not agree with everything Mr. Baker wrote, but I do think it offers a far better synopsis of what occurred within Congress and the White House during the impeachment process.	2002-06-18
US	51943235	RYKASPK3OYTA5	1581822170	272439207	Third Saturday in October: The Game-By-Game Story of the South's Most Intense Football Rivalry	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	CONDOLENCES	Not a review of this or any of Mr. Browning's works.  Just want to pass on that this individual lost his battle to cancer in Birmingham on Thursday, 25 April.  When I lived in Tuscaloosa in 1979 - 81 I had the opportunity to read many of his columns and I have read a couple of his books.  My opinion of his &quot;Crimson Coronation&quot; remains the same -- it was dismal.  But his &quot;Third Saturday in October&quot; was much more representative of his talents and works.  It was a very good effort and it is a shame that this writer's talents have been silenced forever.  Roll Tide.	2002-04-29
US	51943235	R2W7FCCYSBLNH6	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	3	11	17	N	Y	REGRETTABLY, A WASTED EFFORT	Mr. Sammon raises some legitimate issues with the media's election and post-election coverage -- issues that could be another chapter if Bernard Goldberg chooses to write a sequel to \\"Bias\\".  For example, Sammon explained how the TV networks were all tied into the Voter New Service (VNS) and how VNS is supposed to work.  Although a legitimate service, VNS has flaws that can be glaring in a close campaign.<br />Bill Sammon was justifiably critical of how the networks projected winners in each state.  The networks were reluctant in many instances to declare George W. Bush the victor in various states that he won with ease.  As examples, it took the networks nearly 30 minutes to call Virginia (Bush won by 7 percent), 30 minutes to call Georgia (Bush by 12 points) (declared by CNN's Bernard Shaw as \\"Too close to call\\"), 35 minutes to call North Carolina (Bush by 13 points) (at one point declared \\"too close to call\\" by Tom Brokaw), 1 hour and 45 minutes to call Ohio (Bush by 4 points), 2 hours and 40 minutes to call the normal Democrat stronghold of West Virginia (Bush by 6 points), etc, etc.  The networks created the impression that the Bush campaign was in serious trouble.  In contrast, the networks were quick to call most solid Gore states for Gore (e.g., Illiniois, New Jersey, Delaware, etc.).  The networks were also quick to call Gore the victor in several close battleground states as well including Pennsylvania, Michigan, and, of course, Florida.<br />Ah, Florida.  Mr. Sammon argues with some validity that by calling that state about 50 minutes after the polls closed in the eastern time zone of that state, but before the polls closed in the western panhandle (central time zone), Bush's vote totals were depressed as depressed Bush supporters either did not go to the polls right before closing or many that were in line to vote left without voting.  He cited several studies that estimated George W. lost anywhere between 8,000 and 25,000 votes (maybe more) -- a significant number that would have probably killed any chance for Gore to \\"steal\\" the election.  Just as significantly, with Gore supposedly winning Florida, that news depressed Bush's vote totals in various other states when his supporters realize that the election was lost.  This may have cost Bush several close states and perhaps was why Gore won the popular vote nationally.<br />Personally, I do not hold it against Gore for withdrawing his concession on election night.  Given the circumstances, operating with erroneous information, he phoned his concession to George W. Bush only to withdraw it.  Even after the initial recount, he probably was obligated to his supporters to wait for the absentee vote to be counted and certified even though conventional wisdom dictated that most absentee ballots are from the military and most military personnel favor the Republican candidate.  The Gore campaign was hoping for a large absentee vote from Jewish voters out of state voting for the first Jewish vice-president.  But to carry on the campaign after the absentee votes were counted was irresponsible.  To disqualify the votes of the very military personnel that Gore sought to be Commander in Chief over was inexcusable.<br />Mr. Sammon examines the situation Al Gore was in.  Failure to win the presidency in 2000 would jeopardize Gore's political future.  Contrary to what many TV talking heads were saying, private citizen Gore will have many obstacles in trying to reclaim the Democratic nomination in 2004.  Therefore, Gore ended up taking the low road in trying to salvage the 2000 election.<br />The book itself is insightful and well developed.  Of course Mr. Sammon does not like the former vice-president but he gives a strong argument as to why Gore acted in his own self best interest as opposed to the best interest of the country.<br />I call this otherwise well-written book a \\"wasted effort\\" for a reason.  It would not take a rocket scientist very long in parusing the book to realize the book is pro-Bush and anti-Gore.  However, in my opinion, most of the writing in the book is not shrill anti-Gore.  Bill Sammon offers a very strong case against the liberal news media and the post-election actions of the Gore campaign -- a case that bears serious study.  However, how many neutral-minded people or Democrats or Gore supporters are going to invest the time, money, and effort to read a book that has a sub-title of \\"How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election\\"?  The book cover jacket describes \\"At Any Cost\\" as a \\"breathtaking examination of Vice President Al Gore's audacious and unprecedented effort to overturn the presidential election.  Desperate to forestall the spectacular collapse of his political career and determined to inflict as much damage as possible on Bush, Gore pulled out all the stops in an extraordinary, thirty-six-day campaign of scorched-earth political warfare that propelled the nation to the brink of constitutional crisis.\\"  Although the book itself mostly avoided this rhetoric, such inflamatory language on the cover and the jacket would certainly dissuade many potential readers from reading the book.  I know I have no interest in investing the time, money, and effort to read a book that will use similar terminology against the Bush campaign.  The book itself is worthy of 4.5 stars.  But if the purpose of the book is to persuade the reader of the flaws in Al Gore and his campaign to people other than those who supported George W. Bush, then I have to knock the rating down because the book's description alone would dissuade such people from reading it.	2002-04-08
US	51943235	R20B3OKCWM2D1	1568362854	212574824	Inside the Oval Office: The White House Tapes from FDR to Clinton	Books	4	9	13	N	Y	NOT ABOUT RECORDINGS	The \\"saskatoonguy\\" description of the book dated 24 April 01 pretty much nailed it on the head.  The book is more about the personal and management styles of Presidents Roosevelt through Clinton.  The reference to tape recordings is more of a come-on to attract readers.  The recordings are more of a sidelight in this description of the administrative styles of the referenced presidents.<br />In fairness, though, recordings were used minimally by Presidents Roosevelt, Truman, and Eisenhower and the post-Nixon administrations shied away from recordings as well (although video recordings of certain events started under President Reagan).  Only Presidents Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon made extensive use tape recordings and the first two still exercised control over what was recorded -- a practice that Nixon did not adopt and later regretted.  The most memorable examples used were a couple of Johnson's recordings.  A somewhat humorous recording, in spite of the tragic circumstances, was President Johnson's arm twisting his mentor, Senator Richard Russell of Georgia, into serving on the Warren Commission.  Senator Russell despised Earl Warren.  The second was a meeting to determine whether the Administration would commit 200,000 more troops to Vietnam where President Johnson finally decided to reverse his policy and start pulling back from that unpleasant and costly adventure.<br />As for the descriptions of the administrations themselves, the book, in my opinion, is a testimonial to how too much emphasis is put on \\"qualifications\\" to be President.  Each individual who has served in the Oval Office, including the current occupant and his successors, will have certain strengths and weaknesses that may prepare them well for the challenges that confront them, or not prepare them well at all.  I always felt that in terms of \\"qualifications\\", Herbert Hoover was one of the most qualified men to serve as President.  Under normal circumstances, his qualifications may have been adequate.  But an economy plunging into a depression is not \\"normal\\".  As much as I disliked President Carter, there is no disputing his intelligence.  But he was so bogged down in learning what to do that he scarcely did anything at all (I do not agree with Mr. Doyle's revisionist attempt to portray the Carter Administration as being more than what it was, a failure).  As Hoover was replaced by a visionary, so too was Carter.  In terms of intellect, President Reagan does not rank very high.  But he was successful in ways that his more \\"qualified\\" successor, George Bush Sr., could never understand.  I also do not attribute the Clinton's Administration lack of cooperation with investigators to poor management practices that resulted in evidence being lost and unavailable until, conveniently, the investigation was over.  I think deliberate obstruction of justice was a bigger factor.<br />Although I supported George W. Bush in 2000 and would never, ever even consider voting for his opponent, I am not one of those who now claim how fortunate we are that he was president on 11 September 2001 and not Al Gore.  I doubt anybody knows how a Gore Administration would have responded -- even Al Gore himself.  No knock intended as it even took some time for the Bush Administration to recover and respond.  If Al Gore was president, people would find certain aspects about his background and style that would be right for that crisis -- just as they did for George W.  Although his response may have been different, the public would have supported his response if it was a strong response -- something considerably stronger than lobbing a few cruise missiles at an aspirin factory in a third world country.<br />Bottom line:  A good summary of the administrative and personal styles of Presidents Franklin Roosevelt through Clinton.  However, if you are looking for more substance in terms of recordings, you will be disappointed.	2002-04-03
US	51943235	R2JTMNM6D5EJZ7	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	GOOD BUT INCOMPLETE	Back in the late 1960s or early 1970s some TV advertising writer (whose name I cannot remember) wrote \\"I Can Sell You Anything\\".  This was an expose on the advertising industry.  Even today, more than 25 years after it was written, I can still watch commercials and see many of the same gimmicks and buzz words that he identified as part of the advertising medium.  In other words, the book had little impact upon television advertising.<br />Will the same be true with \\"Bias\\"?<br />As I have told many of my colleagues, I scarcely need a 200+ page book to tell me the major networks news programs are biased.  Bernard Goldberg gave some intriguing examples to drive home his point.  He professes to be a liberal (he has never voted for a Republican for president -- fair enough, I have never voted for a Democrat) and most of his views are opposite of mine.  However, our differences in mind, I must raise a few points.<br />1.  I found it hard to believe that Eric Engberg's ridiculous criticism of Steve Forbes' Flat Tax proposal was what finally drove Bernard Goldberg over the edge.  Engberg's \\"Reality Check\\" was certainly out of line, but it was not the first time a news program strayed out of line, nor was it the worst example.  Although I, too, was skeptical of the Flat Tax proposal, it was a legitimate issue that should have been treated legitimately.<br />2.  On page 54 Goldberg writes that although there was cultural bias when he first started in journalism in the 1960s and 70s, he cannot remember seeing bias in the news.  However, that changed when Ronald Reagan moved into the White House.  If he wanted to limit the scope to the 1980s through the present as that is the time period most memorable for the intended audience, fine.  I can understand that.  But to say that there was no bias in the news before 1980 is as laughable as Dan \\"The Dan\\" Rather saying there is no liberal bias in the news today.  Examples:<br />2A.  Although Barry Goldwater had virtually no chance in1964 he was still the nominee of one of the two major parties.  How many major party nominees have had their sanity actually questioned as a cover story of a major national magazine?  Also, although the 1964 GOP convention was rowdy, journalists act as though they were treated in the same manner that Jews might have been treated at a Nazi Nuremburg rally in the 1930s.<br />2B.  The news media turned on the Johnson Administration and the  Vietnam conflict.  The media is proud of its contribution to the journalism profession for their reporting and influence over public opinion during that era.  However, the same media shies away from accepting any blame for the final outcome.  There was plenty of blame to go around about how Vietnam was handled and the media certainly earned its share of blame.  Then the media had the audacity to whine when the Department of Defense instituted tighter controls on the media during DESERT STORM.<br />2C.  Does Mr. Goldberg really think the news media was driven by noble desires when they went after the Nixon Administration both before and during Watergate?  The media hated Nixon with a passion (the feeling was mutual) and went into a feeding frenzy when Watergate blew up.  Even today, the Washington Post gleefully condemns Nixon with each new release of Nixon tapes.  But as they point out Nixon's obsessions they fail to recognize their own obsession with a man who has been dead for almost eight years.  The same media (although different reporters) that deified those who investigated the Nixon Administration demonized those who investigated the Clinton Administration.<br />These are just a few examples of pre-Ronald Reagan bias that Goldberg did not notice.  There were more that others could cite.<br />3.  Bernard Goldberg referenced a news story in the mid 1990s about chain gangs in Alabama.  He did not take the reference in the direction I thought he could have.  He raised the legitimate point that CBS, after the story aired, found fault that of the 20 inmates shown, 19 were black.  I thought he could have also pointed out that the story ridiculed this southern state for its \\"primitive\\" practice within its prison system.  By ridiculing Alabama, the media was also ridiculing millions of Americans outside the state and the south that probably thought chain ganging violent criminals was a pretty good idea.<br />There were various other examples that could have been cited including the media treatment of the Bush campaigns of 1988 (Bush won anyway) and 1992 (that brought us the most corrupt administration of the 20th century); the attacks on the special prosecutor investigating the Clinton Administration; the attacks on the Republican-controlled Congress for pursuing its \\"vast right wing conspiracy\\" all the way to an impeachment that had virtually no chance of succeeding; the treatment of conservative Dan Quayle as a flake while treating his liberal successor, Al Gore, as a legitimate political leader (although the media did criticize Gore for some of his less than legitimate claims), etc, etc.  However, Mr. Goldberg may have wanted to keep the book down to a reasonable size as opposed to turning out a multi-volume condemnation of his chosen profession.  There was so much more he might have done with the book but once he had gotten his point across, adding much more may have been piling on.<br />For the reasons stated above I debated about giving the \\"Bias\\" either four stars or five.  I finally decided on five stars because despite the issues cited above, \\"Bias\\" was still a very readable, informative, and entertaining book.<br />I hope that one day an insider will provide the public a similar expose on the entertainment industry.	2002-03-28
US	51943235	R3CZ60O4ZUQG2C	187951141X	441378169	Laurel & Hardy: From the Forties Forward	Books	3	3	10	N	Y	CONTRADICTORY	I expected Mr. Macgillivray to contradict Randy Skretvedt's &quot;Laurel and Hardy: The Magic Behind the Movies&quot;.  Skretvedt felt the post-Hal Roach movies were vastly inferior to L&amp;H's earlier pieces -- in so many words I thought he thought the Fox/MGM movies were largely garbage.  Instead, he mostly contradicted himself.  Scott Macgillivray tries to convince the reader that these movies were not that bad.  He does a more complete summary of the movies with behind the scenes material than Skretvedt (this is to be expected as the book was more focused on one particular aspect of L&amp;H's career), but he failed to convince me that the Fox/MGM movies were better than Skretvedt described them.  Macgillivray will describe certain movies as being better than critics claim, but then provide explanations as to why the movies were not good.  He does credit L&amp;H with more winning scenes than Skretvedt, but I felt Skretvedt provided a stronger argument than Macgillivray.  By the way, regardless of what we think of the Fox/MGM movies, most of them did well at the box office.<br />The second part of the book was about how the L&amp;H movies long survived the individuals themselves.  Macgillivray summarizes how different vendors obtained old tapes and how they were able to revive the tapes and keep L&amp;H (and others) alive on the screen for modern day viewers.  The results were fascinating, but the process (and perhaps unavoidably the description) was dry.<br />This book would have been an easy four star and maybe even close to a five star book (still not as good as Skredvedt's though) had Macgillivray been better able to sell his argument that the L&amp;H Fox/MGM movies were better than they have been credited for or if he had toned down his praise of them.  The book has a lot of good information, but he failed to achieve the purpose of convincing readers that L&amp;H's Fox/MGM movies were mostly good.<br />Garbage by any other name is still garbage.	2002-03-21
US	51943235	ROCB8V93PPU84	094041029X	621889050	Laurel and Hardy: The Magic Behind the Movies	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	GREAT BOOK ABOUT GREAT COMEDIANS	To me, the Laurel and Hardy (L&amp;H) team was easily the best comedy team of the first half of the 20th century.  I realize others may have other favorites (Three Stooges, Our Gang, W.C. Fields (another of my personal favorites), Abbott and Costello (not one of my favorites), Marx Brothers, etc.)  But the L&amp;H team was beyond these other comedy teams.  Randy Skretvet did these men proud with this book that traces them from the very beginning to their eventual demise.  If one appreciates L&amp;H and the comedy of the early 1900s they should appreciate this book.	2002-03-19
US	51943235	RN5AACMS5LFOV	0517583259	999172158	The Little Rascals: The Life and Times of Our Gang	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	EXCELLENT BOOK	The only thing missing from this book is the actual tapes of the shows.  I was so intrigued that I went out and ordered some of the tapes.  With this book I now have a better understanding of what went on not only during the taping of certain episodes, but also behind the scenes at Hal Roach Studios in the 1920s - 30s and at MGM when the assumed production from Hal Roach.  It is regrettable that MGM, whose first few Our Gang comedies were pretty good, could not maintain that level of quality.<br />These shows are strange to watch realizing that the great percentage of the characters have long since not only grown up, but also passed on to the hereafter.  My mom was born in the early 1920s and, although her life was not scripted or taped, Our Gang gives me a glimpse of her childhood.	2002-03-18
US	51943235	R2HAFL48TK3P1G	0312204175	259043729	Dreaming of Jeannie: TV's Prime Time in a Bottle	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Puts Show in Proper Perspective	I have read several &quot;behind the scene&quot; books about several shows and the common theme of these books is about how the particular show was a reflection on American culture and how the show radically changed television.  In most instances, such books gives the show more credit than it deserves.  There were, in my opinion, only a few such shows that deserve such accolades.<br />Stephen Cox is to be credited for not doing this.  In so many words, he candidly portrays as the two main attractions of the show was strategically located between Barbara Eden's neck and censored belly button.  The show was never a hit in the ratings nor did it do well with awards.  However, the show was on long enough and had enough of a following to warrant a &quot;behind the scenes&quot; book.<br />Mr. Cox seemed obsessed in trying to differentiate &quot;I Dream of Jeannie&quot; from the more successful &quot;Bewitched&quot;.  Mr. Cox failed to convince me that Jeannie was not NBC's answer to &quot;Bewitched&quot;.  He even devoted the last chapter of the book to the ABC hit show.<br />Overall, a decent book with a lot of pictures that bulked the book up to nearly 300 pages.	2002-01-18
US	51943235	R2KWR5D2HPHMWS	0684832461	608928337	Kennedy and Nixon: The Rivalry That Shaped Postwar America	Books	5	9	10	N	N	MORE OBJECTIVE AND FAIRER THAN EXPECTED	Chris Matthews is part of the liberal elite news media who once wrote for President Carter.  From that perspective, one can easily expect a definite spin against the man who ran and almost defeated John Kennedy in 1960.<br />However, Mr. Matthews presented a very balanced and refreshing view of the two men.  As an admirer of President Nixon, it is not common to read a book that puts him in such a positive light.  Yes, he was susceptible to less than noble campaigning as has already been well-recited in other accounts about his first campaign for the House of Representative in 1946 and even more so in his first senatorial campaign in 1950.  Not so well known was how Joseph Kennedy manipulated his son's campaign in 1946 and how John was not alien to less than noble campaigning in his own right.<br />Despite their partisan differences, the two men were very good friends during the first part of their political careers.  Mr. Matthews relates how vice presidential candidate Nixon got excited when senatorial candidate Kennedy's motorcade went by Nixon's hotel during a campaign swing through Massachusetts in 1952 -- so excited that Pat Nixon had to remind him that such enthusiasm for the man running against the Republican incumbent, Henry Cabot Lodge, who was so instrumental in presidential candidate Eisenhower winning the Republican nomination may not look very politic.<br />Unfortunately for both men, their friendship strained as they both coveted the same prize at the same time in 1960.  Mr. Matthews does an excellent job recounting how they both maneuvered around each other to the point that things got personal.  Mr. Nixon was guilty of some tactics that he could be justifiably criticized for and was.  However, Mr. Kennedy was similarly guilty of tactics that he could be justifiably criticized for and was not.<br />Mr. Matthews recounts how badly Kennedy needed Nixon to legitimize the election despite the accusations of vote fraud in the 1960 election.  Mr. Matthews seemed to think such accusations were correct but the defeated vice president went out of his way to smooth the way for Kennedy's presidency.  Once &quot;legitimized&quot; though, Kennedy had no further need for his old friend and even used his administration to attack and humble Nixon -- something Nixon did not forget.<br />Many people were critical of Nixon for being paranoid of the youngest of the Kennedy brothers when Nixon finally made it to the Oval Office.  Chris Matthews, however, believes such suspicion of Ted Kennedy was well founded and that Kennedy did much to undermine the Nixon Administration.  Once Watergate became unraveled, Ted was only too happy to maneuver behind the scenes to embarrass, humiliate, and eventually bring about the downfall of the man who was once John's friend.<br />As I read the book, I could not help but wonder what Chris Matthews must have thought as he researched the book.  He was probably raised on the belief that John Kennedy was the shining star of America's Camelot (another myth that he writes about) whose promise was cut down in the streets of Dallas.  He was also probably raised on the belief that Richard Nixon was the boogieman whose sleaze represented all that was wrong with America.  He must have been surprised to discover that John Kennedy, though a great man, was not the saint that many made him out to be nor that Richard Nixon, though a great man, was not that Satin reincarnate that many made him out to be.	2002-01-17
US	51943235	R5OKID27U60GS	1581822170	272439207	Third Saturday in October: The Game-By-Game Story of the South's Most Intense Football Rivalry	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	FANS OF BOTH SCHOOLS WOULD APPRECIATE THIS BOOK	I had the unpleasant experience of plodding through Al Browning's &quot;Crimson Coronation&quot; - a one star book only because that is Amazon's lowest rating. I am happy to state that &quot;Crimson Coronation&quot; is not a true reflection of Al Browning's writing ability.<br />In &quot;Third Saturday In October&quot;, Browning goes from the dismal extreme to a very good book. Again, due to Amazon's rating system that does not allow for decimals, the five star rating is a little high but this book is definitely above four stars.<br />Although Mr. Browning is an Alabama football fan (to my knowledge) this book will be appreciated by fans of both programs. He provides a very balanced reflection on the many games of this glorious series. He reflects the glory days of General Bob Neyland, Wallace Wade, Frank Thomas, Bear Bryant, Johnny Majors, etc as well as the not so glorious days of both programs.<br />To me, as a long time Alabama football fan, I consider this rivalry as the biggest for the Crimson Tide. I realize many Bama fans, especially those who live in Alabama, would probably point to Auburn as the biggest rivalry, but I consider Tennessee as the historical rival unmatched by others. Alabama has had more success against the War Eagles and as I started following Alabama football religiously since 1966, I remember the hated Volunteers as being the first team to beat Alabama in October 1967. I have hated Tennessee ever since. Alabama established its prominence in the mid-1920s with trips to the Rose Bowl and Tennessee, under General Bob Neyland (and that is an earned rank from the Army and not just a nickname as Coach Neyland served this country honorably as well as being a very successful football coach), established itself as the first and most consistent challenger to the Tide. Although there had been previous games between the two schools, there had been a lull period before the series picked up again in 1928 (and the book picks up the series with this game)when Tennessee made a name for itself by bumping off the Tide, a feat repeated in 1929. Since then, the two programs have been going after each other full blast every year (except for 1943 when would-be football players were battling a bigger foe for bigger stakes). There have been streaks for both programs and as for the more recent past (e.g., the last five years) Volunteer fans may see Florida as their number one rival. But over the course of more than seven decades, their number one rival hailed from Tuscaloosa.<br />What keeps this book from being a legitimate five star book?<br />1. The original book was written in 1987 with it updated in 2001 covering through the 2000 season. I think Mr. Browning should have gone back to update some of the previous chapters. For example, he may refer to Johnny Majors as the &quot;current&quot; coach at Tennessee (as was the case when the book was first written) or Alabama quarterback Robert Fraley as a mere lawyer in Orlando, Florida. Johnny Majors was ousted during the 1992 season and Robert Fraley went on to become a successful sports agent before dying tragically in a plane crash.<br />2. Pictures would have added much to the book.<br />3. The book did not include the 2001 season (a seventh straight win for Tennessee - ouch!). The current record is 42-35-7 in favor of the Crimson Tide. I wish Al Browning could have rewritten the results of 42 of the games to reflect an 84-0-0 record for Alabama -- as it should be! ROLL TIDE!<br />Considering the juvenile embarrassment called &quot;Crimson Coronation&quot;, I think Mr. Browning should stay away from fiction. This book is definitely a better reflection of his true ability.	2001-12-24
US	51943235	R10714XLUTYCSP	1580630952	851347503	Meet the Mertzes: The Life Stories of I Love Lucy's Other Couple	Books	4	16	20	N	N	Actually Better Than Four Stars But...	Not quite five stars.<br />My favorite characters in &quot;I Love Lucy&quot; were -- in order -- Fred, Ethel, and Ricky.  I may be in a small minority but I never did like Lucy (whom the book offered a less than flattering description of).  I thought she was just silly.<br />This book does an excellent job of detailing the careers of William Frawley and Vivian Vance.  For whatever they did prior to &quot;I Love Lucy&quot; they would have been nothing more than one of many hundreds or thousands of minor charactor actors and actresses had they not landed the roles of Fred and Ethel.<br />The book does not try to gloss over the differences of personalities.  Instead, the book amplified how the four individuals displayed the professionalism to make the show successful despite their differences.  Watching the show one would never have suspected that Desi and Lucy were heading toward divorce or that William Frawley and Vivian Vance actually loathed each other.<br />The main reason I cannot give this book five stars is the lack of pictures.  There are a couple of pictures at the beginning of each section but there could have been so many more that would have made it easier for the reader to relate the story to the people.  More pictures of Vivian Vance and William Frawley during the pre-Lucy career, on the &quot;I Love Lucy&quot; set, and in the post-Lucy careers could have done much to add to the story.	2001-12-04
US	51943235	REARK33WAFR8R	1881590100	609482718	Crimson Coronation	Books	1	1	2	N	Y	WAS THIS BOOK NECESSARY?	As a hard core Bama fan, but not a hard core reader of fiction, I bought this book with some skepticism.  Despite the more current history of Bama football (the problems with the NCAA, the Mike Dubose era (error), etc.), Alabama has one of the richest and proudest traditions in college football.<br />Al Browning's fictional account was either an attempt to honor the greats who wore the Crimson jerseys of yesteryear or a cheap, juvenile attempt to capitalize on Bama fans who will buy anything.  I think it was the latter and I am embarassed that I fell for this stunt.<br />Trying to compare teams from the 1920s and 30s with teams from the 1960s, 70s, and 90s is realistically futile.  Mr. Browning's attempt to do so is just embarassingly bad.  There are so many other ways Mr. Browning could honor the Crimson tradition, even in fiction.  As a Crimson Tide fan, I suffered through the entire book.  But I would not recommend this kind of torture to anybody.<br />The one star rating is one star higher than it deserved.<br />ROLL TIDE!!!	2001-11-14
US	51943235	R16IO40QB7KD34	0970402902	784025071	Bitter Legacy: Newsmax.Com Reveals the Untold Story of the Clinton-Gore Years	Books	3	25	40	N	Y	About As Credible As The Subject Matter Itself	As a hard core conservative who was justifiably horrified by the antics of the previous administration, I should appreciate this book.  Although there is much truth written in the book, it is written in such a manner that it presents all the credibility of checkout line tabloid.  I kept expecting to see references to the alien from outter space who has advised the last several administrations and how Clinton and Gore consulted former President John Kennedy who survived Dallas and is now living on a Greek Island.	2001-11-02
US	51943235	R39N3BTEWDB2TH	0802713653	648914976	Sputnik: The Shock of the Century	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	Over Stating &amp; Over Reacting to the Inevitable	Overall, Mr. Dickson has written a very readable book for a subject that could have very easily gotten lost in technologic trivial and minutia.  I learned a lot about the times leading up to the launch, the flight itself, and the immediate aftermath.<br />The main negative about the book that stands out in my mind is how people over stated the significance of Sputnik.  I had always thought Sputnik caught the US and the rest of the world completely by surprise.  Instead, the book relates as to how both the US and USSR had further rocket research and technology since WW II and that both countries had announced that they would launch satellites during the period of 1 July 1957 through 31 December 1958.  The Soviets dropped hints left and right that they were about to launch a satellite and most people either chose to ignore them or did not believe them.  After reading about that, the &quot;shock value&quot; of a tiny little satellite sending peeping sounds around the world was somewhat diminished.<br />Sputnik did indeed have an impact upon the US and its society.  But I am not certain that much of what transpired the following decades in space exploration would have been much different than if the US had, as Dr. Werner Von Braun had aspired, been the first to launch a satellite.  A space race would have occurred regardless, in my opinion.  After reading the book, I cannot subscribe to the thought that Sputnik radically altered the direction of space exploration.  Both countries were heading in that direction already.<br />The title itself was a little misleading, but perhaps necessarily so from a marketing standpoint.  As the book addressed far more than just Sputnik, a more accurate title might have been something along the lines of &quot;The Race For Space&quot; or &quot;The Space Race - The Early Years&quot;.  But such a title probably would not have been the attention grabber than a simple title like &quot;Sputnik&quot;.	2001-11-02
US	51943235	R24RJ2YPK4TLDD	1586480804	465415861	Deadlock: The Inside Story of America's Closest Election	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	BEST BOOK I'VE READ ON 2000 ELECTION	I personally think the Washington Post and NY Times are liberal rags that are generally not worth the paper they are printed on.  However, in fairness, when they do well I think they should be commended.  I read the NY Times \\"36 Days\\" and still think that book was not worth the paper it was printed on.  It was nothing more than a reprint of their articles.<br />Conversely, though, Deadlock was a well-written book.  Two passages are worth noting.  The first is about the book itself.  About one-third of the way into the first chapter the book says:  \\"These are the ... decisions, alliances, power plays, snap judgments and personality flaws revealed when a flukishly close election is played out for staggering high stakes.  Both sides were nimble and brilliant and occasionally shady; both sides were also capable of miscalculations, divisions and blame.  The best and worst of politics were on displayed in those 36 days, and both sides trafficked in each.  This is how it happened.\\"  Although the Post endorsed Al Gore (no surprise) they tried to be equal in their appraisal of how the two campaigns sought resolution in their favor.<br />As for the two sides' strategy one only has to look within the first three pages of Chapter 2 where the Post records that the Democrats enlisted the services of three authors who wrote \\"The Recount Primer\\".  The book reads:  \\"Anyone who read and heeded the booklet could predict how the two sides would play America's closest president election -- at least in the broad outlines.  Gore would gamble; Bush would stall.  Gore would preach a doctrine of uncounted ballots; Bush would extol the dependability of machines.  Gore needed more:  more counting, more examination, more weighing and pondering of more ballots.  Bush needed it over while he was still ahead.\\"  The only trouble for the Gore forces with this gospel was that the Republicans knew the same gospel.  The book attempted to show how the two sides played out the roles assigned them.<br />For a behind the scenes objective look at the two sides, I think the Post did a very decent job.  This could have been a... job on the Republicans and conservatives, but generally it was not (though I expected it).  It could have been a... job on the Democrats and liberals, but it was not (nor did I expect it).  I am not accustomed to this degree of fairness from the liberal Washington Post nor do I expect to see it very often in the future.	2001-10-01
US	51943235	R1QLAWB6BDPX18	074320123X	217916880	Reagan, In His Own Hand: The Writings of Ronald Reagan that Reveal His Revolutionary Vision for America	Books	3	10	19	N	Y	AVERAGE BOOK ABOUT AN ABOVE AVERAGE MAN	I had great expectations for this book that were not entirely fulfilled.  This collection of some of his transcripts from his five minute syndicated program from 1975 - 1979 included his edits that were supposed to present his thought processes.  However, the edits were more distracting than insightful.  Most of his edits showed nothing more than a typical person groping for a better word or phrase in which to get his point across, not a process for how he actually formed his thoughts and arguments.  The book would have been just as insightful if they had just used the final transcripts.<br />Another thing I thought would have been useful was some background material on the various topics to put his monologues into proper context.  I was in high school and college during that time and remembered most (but not all) of the news he touched upon.  For a young reader today such background material could be useful.  For example, he talked about being friendly with our friends such as the Shah of Iran or how counter-productive sanctions were against South Africa.  The compilers of this book could have expounded on how the Carter Administration abandoned the Shah in 1979.  It may have added quite a few more pages to the book, but it may have also added more meaning to the book.<br />One glaring characteristic of his talks was the simplicity and, in some cases, possible distortions that his critics and political opponents accused him of -- in some cases justifiably.  However, he was no more guilty of twisting facts to fit his beliefs than any other politician.  The main difference between him and his critics was that he was more effective than they.  He was a lot more intelligent than many gave him credit for.  To take a complex issue, zero in on the main component of that issue, apply one's beliefs to that issue, and then organize it and present it persuasively in a five minute monologue is a talent that very few people has.<br />Finally, a few pictures would have been good.  Maybe shots of him writing, behind a microphone, photos of many of the subjects of his talks, etc.<br />Bottom line -- the book was not as good as it could have been.	2001-09-26
US	51943235	RWVL7FWK8MZ3Z	0899668216	162255397	The Wreck of the Titan or Futility	Books	1	3	10	N	Y	IF IT WERE NOT FOR THE TITANIC...	This book would not even be of any value.  The book had very little to do with the ship, Titan and the storyline that Morgan Robertson applied to the story was scarcely believable.  After so much attention was given to the similarities between the Titan and the Titanic, I was expecting more than what I got.<br />I know little about the author but he did write other pieces that had some degree of prophecy associated -- lasers, as US war with Japan, etc.  But he could not develop his thoughts and put them down on writing in an entertaining manner.	2001-08-23
US	51943235	RWWNYN4BXUKMY	0684836254	502176195	Joseph McCarthy: Reexamining the Life and Legacy of America's Most Hated Senator	Books	5	13	17	N	Y	MCCARTHY - WARTS &amp; ALL	All my life I have heard nothing good about this senator from Wisconsin -- to the point that I had to believe there must have been some redeeming quality in this man.  Arthur Herman makes an honest, objective effort to show McCarthy various sides.  Yes, he spawned a movement that had many flaws.  But his movement was probably necessary for that time.  There were many Communists in the government at that time, some in highly sensitive positions.  Very few responsible leaders, however, were willing to deal with the issue.  It is a shame that a person with the volatile personality that McCarthy had championed this movement.  But somebody had to take the lead and he was the only one willing to do so.  Regrettably, this book will probably not revise current thinking of that era and McCarthyism will continue to be held in justifiable ridicule but not receive any justified praise.	2001-08-23
US	51943235	R2U48D76SHU1SG	0765302063	842949096	The Stolen Election: Hayes Versus Tilden1876	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	INTERESTING PERSPECTIVE ON AN INTERESTING PERIOD	Lloyd Robinson first wrote this book in the 1960s and interest was renewed after the 2000 election.  As a history buff, I found this book to be surprisingly well-written and informative.  I say &quot;surprisingly&quot; because I kind of expected a book that would get bogged down in minutia and academia.  However, this book gives an excellent portrayal of the country in 1876, especially in the South where the white Democrats were trying to reclaim power from the Republicans and the former slaves who were beholden to the Republicans.  Although Mr. Robinson clearly felt the election was stolen and Tilden should been president, he also points out irregularities in the south, especially in the disputed states of South Carolina, Louisiana, and Florida whereby blacks were not allowed to vote and how this contributed to Tilden's victory in the popular vote in these states.<br />If you are a history buff and enjoy reading about politics of previous eras this is a book worth reading.	2001-08-23
US	51943235	R3PN4EGG3PAPDX	0899668216	162255397	The Wreck of the Titan or Futility	Books	1	5	10	N	Y	IF IT WERE NOT FOR THE TITANIC...	This book would not even be of any value.  The book had very little to do with the ship, Titan and the storyline that Morgan Robertson applied to the story was scarcely believable.  After so much attention was given to the similarities between the Titan and the Titanic, I was expecting more than what I got.<br />I know little about the author but he did write other pieces that had some degree of prophecy associated -- lasers, as US war with Japan, etc.  But he could not develop his thoughts and put them down on writing in an entertaining manner.	2001-08-23
US	51943235	R2Y9Q2HW8N0FWK	0312104820	808237822	Inside Gilligan's Island: A Three-Hour Tour Through The Making Of A Television Classic	Books	2	5	9	N	Y	A MODEST MAN SHERWOOD IS NOT	I have always been a great fan of Gilligan's Island but this book by its creator leaves a lot to be desired.  Mr. Schwartz obviously went through a lot getting the show on the air but his description of his efforts seems to be very self-centered and like one man's battle against all odds.  Even if this was true, it might have been better if someone else had written it.  The book was not about the show so much as it was about Sherwood Schwartz.<br />Mr. Schwartz also seems to blame others for the show's demise and failure to be revived in the late 1970s following the &quot;Rescue From Gilligan's Island&quot; movie.  I agree that I thought the show died a pre-mature death.  But the success of the &quot;Rescue From Gilligan's Island&quot; movie was probably more attributable to curiousity than to its entertainment value.  The original movie was disappointing and subsequent sequels were dismal.  He deserves credit for a fun and entertaining TV show but he also deserves criticism for less fun and less entertaining TV shows thereafter.	2001-07-20
US	51943235	R10GVYI3DLQEDE	0452277051	203341062	The People's Choice: A Novel	Books	1	3	5	N	N	GROSSLY OVERRATED	Mr. Greenfield has received accolades for a &quot;brilliant&quot; book, especially after the 2000 election.  I thought the book was a very interesting concept that was poorly developed.  Early in the book he introduced various characters who, for whatever reason, failed to materialize in any substance in the book.  Most notable cases include the losing candidate who could have launched a challenge to the vice-president elect and the flamboyant civil rights leader could have made this book interesting.  The &quot;solution&quot; at the end of the book was woefully implausible.  Mr. Greenfield introduced a fascinating topic for a book and fell well short of a fascinating book.  He could have easily doubled the length of the book, made it more believable (and humorous), and made it more entertaining than he did.  There was so much Mr. Greenfield could have done with this topic and instead Mr. Greenfield did so little.  I read the book before the 2000 election and was sorely disappointed and any analogy between the book and the 2000 election is nothing more than a cheap effort to capitalize on a bizarre event.	2001-05-24
US	51943235	R3SJIHQBPYD0OI	0671879197	795317754	Inside the White House	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Less than expected.	The book was primarily gossipy and offered little that I have not heard or read before.  I expected more insight and little known aspects of the presidents covered in the book than what I got.  Overall, a disappointment.	1999-04-14
