US	51956455	R2L6V9AARDUOH6	1878424114	876583836	The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success: A Practical Guide to the Fulfillment of Your Dreams	Books	5	45	50	N	Y	What can I say that hasn't already been said	The fact that this little book has received 135 reviews and counting is because so many want others to share in this.  Profound yet simple. Life changing. Contrary thinking to our unsuccessful ways. When Deepak Chopra tells us to quit wasting energy trying to convince others of our opinions, I will need some time to implement that into my life. I know it will come, because now when I am done trying to convince others of my point of view, to no avail, I think back to his advice, and realize I need to acquire it as a natural trait. Realizing each time how much time and energy I just wasted. This just scratches the surface.<br />The other profound lesson that is changing my life is that the question we should be asking ourselves, is \\"How can I help, How can I serve\\" instead of \\"What's in it for me\\" Combining that with giving freely, in line with the laws of nature, is giving me a new foundation for forming a company I am working on. It completely shifted my focus to helping, instead of demanding. I know that by serving freely the interests of my patrons, I will receive like kind in return. Not because I require it, but rather because that is the way it flows; even to the point of concentrating my efforts now on helping the maximum amount of people, rather than making them customers.<br />All of this is predicated on the necessity to meditate to get in touch with your inner... as he calls it, the embryo of your God self. Which is a part of the infinite potentiality, the essential energy of all things. In so doing, making the unmanifest, into the manifest. Some say that all of mankind's problems can be reduced to his inability to sit still, quietly, for 15 minutes.<br />Deepak Chopra and Dr Wayne Dyer co-authored a book. I thank Dr Wayne Dyer for showing me how to meditate by simply lying down or sitting, and gently letting all thoughts leave my mind. Each thought is tied to an emotion. When all thoughts finally leave, a profound change occurs. I arise feeling completely renewed. Deepak Chopra is now introducing me to new ways to utilize this new domain, to bring my desire and intention into fulfillment. (As long as my desire is in keeping with helping and serving)<br />Please read this book. It will profoundly change your life, especially if you read it again, and again. Not just reading, but also examining your own life, in relation to the new, profound, simple truths that you wish you knew all along, and all of the time. I am already beginning to experience some of the bliss and joy that he has taught me how to acquire. I see others and wish I could share it with everyone. I know it would sound fairy tale like to some, but I know the incredible knowledge this book contains to be the truth.<br />I wanted to say that although this book is based on his other work, \\"Creating Affluence\\" I like \\"The Seven Spiritual Laws\\" better. It is a more practical, put it to use approach. Creating affluence is less profound, and earth moving. A great book, but be sure and get the Seven Spiritual Laws.<br />I hope this review helps to make others buy this book. I can't say enough about it. Highly, highly recommend. Get it, and change your life.d. Deepak Chopra is now introducing me to new ways to utilize this new domain, to bring my desire and intention into fulfillment. (As long as my desire is in keeping with helping and serving)  Please read this book. It will profoundly change your life, especially if you read it again, and again. Not just reading, but also examining your own life, in relation to the new, profound, simple truths that you wish you knew all along, and all of the time. I am already beginning to experience some of the bliss and joy that he has taught me how to acquire. I see others and wish I could share it with everyone. I know it would sound fairy tale like to some, but I know the incredible knowledge this book contains to be the truth.   I wanted to say that although this book is based on his other work, \\"Creating Affluence\\" I like \\"The Seven Spiritual Laws\\" better. It is a more practical, put it to use approach. Creating affluence is less profound, and earth moving. A great book, but be sure and get the Seven Spiritual Laws.   I hope this review helps to make others buy this book. I can't say enough about it. Highly, highly recommend. Get it, and change your life.	2005-09-09
US	51956455	R20A7T2KAUTVDJ	B00030KOMG	607741039	You Don't Have to Be Rich: Comfort, Happiness, and Financial Security on Your Own Terms	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Grreat Book, It Will Help You Get Organized	I saw Jean Chatsky on TV. Her approach to financial security was refreshing. Instead of \\"waiting\\" until you become a millionaire in order to solve all of your financial concerns, she rather teaches us that you don't have to be rich. Instead of trying to stare at the big picture, realize that the big picture is nothing more than a lot of little pictures. When you get the little pictures in order, the big picture changes. For example by observing for two weeks, where your cash in pocket goes, you can find ways to reduce annual expenses by even several thousand dollars per year. Figuring that amount of money, invested over ten years, you come up with a substantial amount of money.<br /><br />By sitting down and figuring out a budget, or allotment of monies, you can help rid yourself of the irrational spending. Start to figure out what makes you incessantly spend, spend, spend. Counting your money can be fun. Instead of enjoying your new toy for only a day or two after you buy it, then on to the next buy, you rather find joy in the ongoing financial strategy that you employ.<br /><br />  By setting new goals and dreams, you focus your income on value pursuits, rather than buying a whole lot of junk.<br /><br />  This book is chock full of great advice. I'm going to work hard at the suggestions. Enjoy the freedom of knowing that your financial well being is in order.<br /><br />  Hey if your books all balance, even though you are not a millionaire, you can begin to enjoy life. Instead of that aching feeling in the background telling you that something is wrong. Your new value dream that replaces your nonsense spending will fulfill your need to buy.<br /><br />  This book will take you step by step as to how to \\"clean out the garage\\" of your personal finances. Highly recommended, and personally I think Jean Chatsky is hot, hot, hot.	2005-03-16
US	51956455	R25T4B1K5E6IPB	0892366850	372606950	Marquetry (Getty Trust Publications: J. Paul Getty Museum)	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	It doesn't get any better than this	Marquetry is impressive if you are making a simple flower or a project as ornate as the examples that are given in this book. Covering the art form from the early adopters in France and Italy, he explains in detail the procedures, as well as the tools that are used. When you see some of the pictures of the projects, you will think that you need a lifetime of practice to get to those levels, and maybe you do. They are so elaborate and ornate that you will appreciate what can be done in the art form.<br /><br />  The book is large and is something worth featuring on a shelf. It is wonderfully illustrated, and they don't short you on the full color photographs.<br /><br />  The chapters are; Veneer Decoration, History, The Marqueters Workshop, The Materials, The Instruments, The Drawing, Preparation, Procedures, Frisage and Jeux De Fond, The Construction of Cutting Tools, and Conclusion.<br /><br />  The book is 14\\" x 10\\" and every page is packed with beautiful color photographs, and at the very least a drawing. Makes for an interesting read, as well as seeing what is being explained in full color. With so many full size color photos, you can see why the book is more expensive than a standard book.<br /><br />  Whether you are a beginner or a seasoned practitioner in the art form, this book will capture you. See the highest forms in the art, chosen by the top museums for display. All in all a first class reference. Highly recommended.	2005-01-29
US	51956455	R2332YF6VV28L5	1579902790	979970842	Classic Joints with Power Tools	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Engineered To Simplicity, A Powerful Book	Classic Joints with Power Tools by Yeung Chan is unique amongst books on wood working. Logical, concise, and written by someone with a wealth of experience. The unique thing is how adept he is in explaining it; yes, an excellent teacher.<br /> When you see some of the pictures of work the author completed, which is included in the book in full color, as well as pictures of works created by others, you realize that this is the work of someone who practices what he preaches.<br /> Simple yet profound. One tip for example, is when cutting stock, cut it 1/4\\" oversize, then re-joint it, and re-cut it to final size. You know the problem of cutting a board, and the internal stress makes the board move a little. Then you have an edge cup in your piece. By cutting and jointing it twice, you eliminate that. What a great idea.<br /> This book is made for the master woodworker, and the beginner alike. For the master; so they can compare techniques, and glean a new bent on methods, and for the beginner, because they can learn the simple truth of the best way of creating the right joint, using the best procedure.<br />  I can't recommend this book enough. It makes for a great read, and a convenient reference guide, due to the fact that it is laid out so logically. Buy it you won't be sorry.	2005-01-28
US	51956455	R13H4G4DGE7MM6	0201748835	185827320	Adobe Acrobat 5 Master Class	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	The Best out of Four	I bought four books on Acrobat 5, and this one is by far the best. It is written conceptually. It appeals to the senses as well as providing an education. Taking vast amounts of information and refining it so that it is presented simply yet thoroughly. I enjoy reading it.<br />  I also bought Classroom in a book by the Adobe Creative Team and it is work. I am sure over time I will derive a lot from it, but Master Class is fun. You would never know that your working because you are too busy seeing all the cool stuff you can do with Adobe 5 and how to do it.<br />  I also bought Real World PDF with Adobe Acrobat 5 by Anita Dennis, Industrial Strength Production Techniques, and that is a book for advanced students. It explains everything clearly, and is a big benefit for explaining the details on how to fit Adobe PDF into your print production overflow.<br />  Adobe PDF is so much more than simply converting your files. It appears simple on the outside, but when you read Adobe 5 Master Class, you will be enthralled with how much more it does. Highly recommended for beginners and advanced students.	2004-06-01
US	51956455	R1J5ZI0G8TRNC4	1401902154	409105258	The Power of Intention	Books	5	27	34	N	Y	The best of the best. Learning, realizing, coming together	I am an avid fan of Dr Dyer. I have at least a half of a dozen of his books. When I saw him on the Public Television station, I knew I had to have them. The prices were so reasonable, I bought the 6 most popular ones. I am not through all of the material. Each one of them is a new concentration and achievement. I think that they are all great, and The Power Of Intention is possibly the best of his best.<br />  Many years ago I saw Richard Bach who wrote Jonathan Livingston Seagull on the Phil Donahue show. He said that he was walking on the beach, and the words Jonathan Livingston Seagull appeared in his mind. Then he went home and the whole book just poured out through his pen.<br />  I saw the movie Amadeus. It was about Mozart's life. A competitor, being the kings head musician, tried as he might, could not outdo Mozart's symphonies. He was further stymied when he saw Mozart's scores without a single correction. How could anybody write a complete score, with all of those different instruments, and not have even one correction?<br />  When I saw Dr Dyer on the public television station, he explained that unlike his other books, The Power of Intention was created without an outline, notes, or any of the usual writing aids. The whole thing just poured out.<br />  So what is writing? Is it a spontaneous overflow of emotions? Is it our allowing of our greater selves to perform without our egos getting in the way? Or is it the willingness to be an instrument of something greater than ourselves? Our hand creates what we are given, without question, without correction, it simply just is. This intention which is in everything and available to us at all times. Many believe that all of the greatest works of art, and music, and literature are created that way.<br />  Thanks to this book, I have begun to learn to see things at their core, as their intention. No trying to logically, or emotionally figure someone, or something out, I now am learning to look simply at the intention. Are we in touch with The Power of Intention?<br />  Funny, this may be an oversimplification, but I am beginning to look at others in a very simple way. What are their intentions? All of their actions flow from that. The smoke screen disappears, I see with my heart instead of my eyes.<br />  The way I am approaching this book of Dr Dyers, is a scoop at a time. I keep a bookmark, and each time I pick it up, I read enough to create an awakening, then I put it down. That usually only takes a couple of pages. His teachings are simple on the outside, yet profoundly deep and complete.<br />  I know this review is not a blow by blow coverage of the content of the chapters, the other reviews do a good job of taking care of that.<br />  I can't help but reflect on what happened to Leonardo De Vinci in the Agony and the Ecstasy. While working on a lesson, and repeating it again, and again, someone came over to him and said, &quot;Are you still working on that simple task?&quot; Leonardo replied, &quot;A simple task for the simple minded&quot; His critic proceeded to break his nose. The nose breaking is not what is relevant here. What is relevant is that this book, is something to not just visit and look at, but rather something to become. Keep arriving here until it becomes a part of you. The part of you that is the ultimate power, the power of intention.<br />  I haven't finished the book yet, but I can already tell you that it is helping me to learn, helping me to realize, and helping me to come together. Forgive me for using the clich&eacute;, but this is a must have.<br />  Dr Dyer says that their are spiritually centered persons, and others whose egos are in control.<br />  The best way to sum up this review, and its response, is to say the words written on the inner jacket of Jonathan Livingston Seagull. &quot;To those who like to do something well, even if only for themselves, they will be with Jonathan all the way. To others, it will simply be a nice book about flight.&quot;	2004-04-22
US	51956455	R3IROKWZMN9ZN2	1561582883	197740527	Great Wood Finishes	Books	5	41	44	N	Y	Just what you want to know	I owned a high end body shop for twenty years. Did a lot of European cars, and the finished products, all to often, wound up under strong showroom lights. Factory approved finishing and repair for BMW, Benz etc. With specific application techniques, and finally exhaustive rubbing, a finish was produced that would far exceed factory specs. It was necessary to tone it down unless you were doing an overall. Why am I saying all of this? Well mainly this: If someone asked me about refinishing I could get very specific about techniques. What to do, what not to do, and the tips and tricks to take it over the top. It is all to often the technique that would separate the mind blowing finish from the mundane. Of course the proper material had a lot to do with it, but if I had to choose just one, it would be technique. Now that woodworking is a part of my life, trying to apply 20 years of automotive knowledge to woodworking, is almost a waste of time. In automotive, you build up a thick layer of finish, that is often catalyzed for quick drying, then the next day cut it with wet and dry paper, and polish it with lambs wool bonnets. Unfortunately that doesn't have a thing to do with wood finishing. I have been on a quest for the past couple of years to find a book on wood finishing that would give me the kind of knowledge that I understood with automotive. After all of my searching, I finally found it, and Great Wood Finishes: A Step-By-Step Guide to Consistent and Beautiful Results by Jeff Jewitt is it. You couldn't gain the experience given in this book without spending a lot of years acquiring it. The only obstacle to acquiring a lifetime of finishing knowledge is our willingness to open our minds and accept it.<br />  They say their is two ways to learn: Either go through the school of hard knocks, or listen to someone who has gone through the school of hard knocks. Not only does this book show you how, their is a knack applied, by the author of explaining the relevant aspects of what you want to know. Their is no way I want to spend the kind of time and resources that would be necessary, in order to learn the lessons explained in this book. I guess you could say that Jeff Jewitt is more than an deeply experienced wood refinisher, he is an excellent teacher as well.<br />  He explains the different finishing techniques, each of the different materials, and even the unique problems you acquire in finishing different species of wood.<br />  The book gives you full color photographs, for example, of a piece of cherry, which is divided into different sections, displaying the different shades as a result of different coloring techniques.<br />  I am glad that I bought the other books on refinishing wood, but this book is the one that I feel the most akin to. The author tells you the pitfalls to avoid, and is still very much in touch with the reasons why he does what he does. He doesn't just say this is the way you do it period. He explains quite often the reason why. Overall I highly recommend this book. Nothing really negative to say about it. It's a great one.s of what you want to know. Their is no way I want to spend the kind of time and resources that would be necessary, in order to learn the lessons explained in this book. I guess you could say that Jeff Jewitt is more than an deeply experienced wood refinisher, he is an excellent teacher as well. <BR>  He explains the different finishing techniques, each of the different materials, and even the unique problems you acquire in finishing different species of wood. <BR>  The book gives you full color photographs, for example, of a piece of cherry, which is divided into different sections, displaying the different shades as a result of different coloring techniques. <BR>  I am glad that I bought the other books on refinishing wood, but this book is the one that I feel the most akin to. The author tells you the pitfalls to avoid, and is still very much in touch with the reasons why he does what he does. He doesn't just say this is the way you do it period. He explains quite often the reason why. Overall I highly recommend this book. Nothing really negative to say about it. It's a great one.	2004-04-21
US	51956455	R3NX6LXKMD1QWI	0806965444	878200820	Make Your Own Handcrafted Doors & Windows	Books	5	32	34	N	Y	Get into woodworking, buy the tools, make your own windows	Unfortunately this book is out of circulation. I guess it didn't go back into print because most people buy windows rather than make them. That is a shame, because this book is well written. I had first heard about it when I bought a set of Freud router bits for making window sashes. They said, &quot;Get Make your own handcrafted doors and windows by John Birchard to learn how to make them. It is chock full of ideas, pictures, and examples.<br />  Windows are a critical application and this book will help you in both your window making and door making quests. I had been trying to find a copy for about a year, and finally found one available here at Amazon, after calling Sterling Publishing.<br />  Highly recommended.	2004-02-27
US	51956455	R1ZCTCODRH9LB5	1582910103	897125698	Smoothies! The Original Smoothie Book, Vol. 1	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	It's the best. Fruit smoothies for the health of it.	This book is one of the best, if not the best book on smoothies. Getting more fruit into our diets is something we all aspire to, but few achieve. Between having to shop for it, getting it home, and it spoils one day later, makes the recommended daily levels fruit consumption a lot more difficult to achieve. Then along came smoothies, and now we freeze our fruit. Chop it up into little squares as soon as you get it home, and place it in zip loc bags. Then the smoothie is always ready; no more spoilage.<br />  My favorite is to take banannas, honeydew melon, cantaloupe, strawberries, and blueberries to make an all fruit shake. In this book you see a lot of varieties of the smoothies.<br />It's worth it just for the redipes. Highly recommended.	2004-01-26
US	51956455	R2T2IN1WLKUZFL	1580110789	201194440	Decorating with Architectural Trimwork: Planning, Designing, Installing	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Great book, wonderfully illustrated	I have read many books on woodworking. Some of them have pictures of products you would never consider putting in your own home. Not in this book. It is full of pictures of trim work that is beautiful. If you buy this book just for the examples you see makes it worth it. I open it sometimes just to get inspired to higher levels of woodworking.<br />  All in all well written, and super well illustrated. Highly recommended.	2004-01-24
US	51956455	R3H9FTELNOM90R	0061094943	577835309	Manifest Your Destiny: The Nine Spiritual Principles for Getting Everything You Want	Books	5	72	76	N	Y	Where did you set your thermostat?	Anthony Robbins the famous motivational speaker states that people have a thermostat setting in their minds which is set at a specific success level. Anything lower and they scramble to get back to their setting, anything higher, and they tend to sabotage it.<br />  Dr Dyer in this book takes a different approach. He mentions that people choose a path to enlightenment that is either suffering, goal setting, and the highest order, living on purpose. We overcome obstacles through our general approach to life through one of these approaches. Some through suffering realize enlightenment. Others approach life with goal setting. Hard work, climbing the tower, and they finally arrive. Finally the people who realize that their is a greater purpose for our lives, and get in touch with that reality. By living on purpose all things are added unto you. It is the ideal solution to our lives.<br />  I remember seeing a bumble bee one summer, trying to escape to the outside world. Repeatedly hitting his head against the glass window. Flying toward the glass, hitting his head, staggering, recomposing, and heading toward the glass once again. Again and again, banging his head into the glass. I sat back from across the room and wished I could speak to the bee and share with him the information that only a few feet from the window was a wide open door. Through continual trying the bee could possibly exhaust himself to the floor, and maybe then see the opening to the door. Others may call upon their greater sense, or rely on their intuitive sense, or greater guidance, and find the simple solution without the suffering or goal achieving.<br />  Are we living on purpose? Achieving our destiny? It may be time to stop and ask ourselves that question, and that is what this book is about.<br />  I find Dr Dyer to an enlightened person. He draws upon the  teachings of many spiritual masters. Transcending the standards that are often dictated to us by others. I have learned more lifetime truths from him, than from most any other author. I highly recommend this book to anyone who is steering their way through life. (Which is all of us.) I have never read a book by Dr. Dyer that was not an enlightening experience.<br />  Highly recommended.rom him, than from most any other author. I highly recommend this book to anyone who is steering their way through life. (Which is all of us.) I have never read a book by Dr. Dyer that was not an enlightening experience. <BR>  Highly recommended.	2004-01-15
US	51956455	R22O5LD11LQSVH	1561582875	463825757	Great Kitchens: At Home with America's Top Chefs	Books	4	18	24	N	Y	I'm swimming upstream on this one	To be perfectly honest with you, I was a little disappointed in the book. I expected to see kitchens that I could only dream of. Instead I saw utilitarian efforts by America's top chefs. Imagine looking into Mario Andretti's personal garage. Would it look like a dream shop, or more like a GM assembly plant? One kitchen in this book had tall, bare cinderblock walls, that were not even finished, right in the center of the kitchen. How do you prevent dust from accumulating in bare cinderblock, and inadvertently arriving in some of the food? Their were some kitchens that were nicer than that, but nothing that inspired me.<br />  Personally, I am interested in a kitchen that is as beautiful as it is practical. I found, the book, Kitchen's That Work, A Practical Guide to Creating a Great Kitchen, a much more informative, and inspiring book, no matter what your budget.<br /> If you want to throw your pinky in the air, and poo paa your neighbors, then leave Great Kitchens on your coffee table. Their is plenty of names to drop in there. But if you want to create a great-dream kitchen, then get Kitchen's that Work. From soup to nuts, that is the book to have for the practical to the particular.<br />  In all fairness, I am not sorry I bought Great Kitchens, as I am sure I can glean information from it. If you would like to hear about some of the considerations the top chefs like to see in their kitchens, then by all means buy the book. I guess I was expecting something awe inspiring, and that is not what this book is. I gave it four stars, because I never met a man, I couldn't learn something from.	2003-11-04
US	51956455	R2UQE7A894Q832	1561583197	241675291	Kitchens That Work: The Practical Guide to Creating a Great Kitchen	Books	5	45	48	N	Y	Soup to Nuts, This is the book to get	I bought Kitchens that Work at the same time I bought Great Kitchens, At Home with America's Top Chefs. I love Kitchens That Work, and am disappointed in the one about America's top chefs. If you are wondering what Mario Andretti's garage looks like, it is nothing like you would imagine. Probably more like a GM assembly plant. Top chefs think in terms of production, not beauty. One of the kitchens has bare cinderblock, unfinished on the wall. Very utilitarian with little warmth. Others are better than that, but I did not find anything inspiring in there.<br />  Kitchens that work on the other hand, has every level of kitchen pictured. Some high end kitchens to dream of, as well as some a little more practical. The important thing as they mention is an intelligent design, that incorporates what you need, rather than the latest trend.<br />  When I read some of the reviews on Kitchens that Work, I thought it would be lacking something, NOT! It has every consideration covered. Planning, layout, design, considerations when dealing with contractors, things to look out for when opening up walls, like hidden pipes for example, and the list goes on and on.<br />  All I can say, &quot;Soup to Nuts, This is the Book to Get&quot; You could spend a year pondering all of the considerations they give you. Well done, definitely five stars.	2003-11-04
US	51956455	R3ABSDCD9GYCFD	0806936894	868961613	Controlling Dust In The Workshop	Books	5	10	13	N	N	This Guy Has the Riddle All Figured Out	When someone asks you a riddle, it is complex in trying to find an answer. Once you find it, or someone gives it to you, it seems so obvious, you may blurt out, &quot;I knew that&quot; Well that is what the author has done with every aspect of controlling dust in the workshop. This guy knows it so well, that he has reduced it to simplicity. No guesswork in his approach. He states it, and that is the end of it. It is a highly recommended read. No nonsense, simply put, this is the way to put the best dust collection system together.<br />  Here is what I decided to do, after reading the book. Although the author recommends a cyclone dust collector, I am purchasing the JDS Dust Force, with the 1 micron kit, (be sure and get the optional 1 micron kit) and a Woodstock International separator. The price of doing it that way is one third of the cost of the a cyclone unit. Home made units can be made, and he points the way on how to do it, but I would prefer to not have to build one, since I have enough projects to do already. His penchant for the cyclone unit, is that chunks of wood, or even worse metal, won't be dancing off of the fan blade, which could cause a spark. The only thing that arrives at the cyclone filter is a little powder. Additoinally their isn't any vacuum loss with a cyclone, due to resistance. Well the JDS Dust force delivers more air at 1200 CFM, so the small amount of resistance created by the Wookstock International pre separator is of no consquence. Additoinally it prevents anything other than fine powder getting near the fan blade and filter as well.<br />  Since the popular Oneida 2HP cyclone unit only gives you 1100, and their 1.5HP is rated for 750 as I recall, and at three times the cost.<br />  This book gets into everything you need to know, to set up a complete system. In addition to the book, I noticed at the Onieda-air.com site, they had a sample room layout, with the proper pipe sizes etc. Proper sizing and layout, will give you the right amount of performance, and in proportion for the varying needs of different types of tools.<br />  I guess I am getting a little wordy. Buy the book. It will save you way more than the purchase price in your quest for the dust free shop.amount of performance, and in proportion for the varying needs of different types of tools. <BR>  I guess I am getting a little wordy. Buy the book. It will save you way more than the purchase price in your quest for the dust free shop.	2003-09-15
US	51956455	R3MAAPGVNCRKHE	1561584703	167509894	Building Kitchen Cabinets: Taunton's BLP: Expert Advice from Start to Finish (Taunton's Build Like a Pro)	Books	5	282	287	N	Y	A practical guide from someone who knows.	I like this book. Lots of pictures, insider tips, and a no nonsense approach to cabinet building. The author gives it to you straight. He uses pocket hole joinery in abundance. Why? Because it takes less time, joins strong, and is reversible if you want to correct something. He doesn't go for a lot of complex joinery that is very time consuming, and not what the customer cares about.<br /> Myself I want to also build some heirloom quality cabinets. You know dovetails in every drawer corner. Inside panel solid wood overlays. Dadoes throughout, with hand rubbed finishes. You know the works. This is not about that. If you want to get practical and build fabulous looking hand made cabinets for a living, or for yourself, and not spend a month or a year doing it, this is the book for you. Instead of using plastic laminated interior panels, with fake wood, like the home centers sell you, you can use cabinet grade veneer plywood instead. This book will show you how.<br />  Robert Yoder gives you the insider tips, on what it takes to make professional cabinets, and not waste time on non-essentials. For example, one of many that are in the book, he says that you have the option, of once gluing up your raised face panel, you can insert two finish nails in the back of the panel, at the joint of the rails and stiles, and free your clamps up for another panel. No having to have a wall full of clamps that way. See what I mean about practical. He also uses the pocket hole joinery to join his face frame panels, with the pocket holes in the back of the panel. Way quicker than mortise and tenon joinery, and actually less difficult to get a perfect fit.<br /> I think every cabinetmaker has to have at his disposal, procedures that will enable him to make a fine set of cabinets that fit into any practical budget. This book will show you how. This is a far cry from standardized home center cabinetry. Custom-built cabinets, take into consideration that over the oven microwave cabinet, that fits it perfectly. Unlike the standardized cabinets that are pre-built, then modified on site to accommodate the custom fit. It shows.<br />  I like everything about this book. His honesty, practical approach, insider tips, knowing what can go wrong, and ways to prevent it. Nothing talks better than experience. This guy shoots from the hip, and knows what it is like to be out in the field.<br />  I think every level of cabinetry should be in your arsenal, and at your fingertips. This one is the one you will most frequently use.  An easy read, with lots of illustrative photographs in color. It makes a great addition to your library. Highly recommended.s it perfectly. Unlike the standardized cabinets that are pre-built, then modified on site to accommodate the custom fit. It shows. <BR>  I like everything about this book. His honesty, practical approach, insider tips, knowing what can go wrong, and ways to prevent it. Nothing talks better than experience. This guy shoots from the hip, and knows what it is like to be out in the field. <BR>  I think every level of cabinetry should be in your arsenal, and at your fingertips. This one is the one you will most frequently use.  An easy read, with lots of illustrative photographs in color. It makes a great addition to your library. Highly recommended.	2003-09-10
US	51956455	R1VEE64WRQZ3HH	1861080891	899196258	Turning Green Wood	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	This is an exotic art, and this book illustrates it well	When I first saw a bowl turned out of green wood, and it was so thin, you could almost see through it, it caught my attention. That is what interested me in this book. The author does an excellent job of explaining how to work green wood, and it is well illustrated in the photographs.<br /> When I saw a bowl at the woodworking show, and the artist illuminating the inside with a light bulb, so he could determine just how thich each part of the wall was. It all made sense. This book will give you everthing you need to know, and get you started on your own translucent bowl creation. Tools, lathe settings, and choosing your wood is covered. Highly recommended, and a sure fire way for guests to ask you about your creations.	2003-06-17
US	51956455	R3KZCR0J9NNO5X	1561584177	796936321	Turning Wood: with Richard Raffan (Fine Woodworking DVD Workshop)	Books	5	36	36	N	Y	Out of all the woodturning books I bought, this is number 1	Turning Wood with Richard Raffan is my number one pick out of the several books I bought on wood turning. He went into the lathe, its components, safety, and techniques. The editorial reviews go into all of the subjects covered in this book, so I will not reapeat them all. What I wanted to share with you is the overall feeling of the book. You know the frustration of buying a book, and it doesn't feel right. I guess you could analyze some of the reasons why. This book feels right. The photos, the explanations, the way it is laid out, all are done in a way that makes me say, I really like this book.<br /> I turned wood when I was in high school. Recently acquired a lathe, and wanted someone to walk me through the essentials. This book covers that. Safety is a primary concern. For example he explains, that you always want to use your wood turning chisel from the higher areas, into the shallower. If you do it the other way around, you could have a piece of wood flying into your face. It is like your skiing down the side of the mountain. I know this sounds trivial, but he is not afraid to cover the essetials for those of us renewed in the hobby.<br /> Great book, highly recommended.	2003-06-14
US	51956455	R17RS7B7B9JX9G	0517578069	895857206	Kovels' Know Your Antiques, Revised and Updated	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Covers a lot of territory	Antiques and collectibles covers such a vast array of knowledge, that no one book could ever cover it all. This book is an excellent resource for someone like myself who wants to get his feet wet. I covers a lot of topics lightly. They include: Pottery and Porcelain, Glass, Bottles, Furniture and furniture construction, Lighting Devices, Silver, Pewter, Tinware and Toleware, Clocks, Needlework, Jewelry, Prints, Paintings, and Pictures to Hang, Paper Antiques, Store stuff (that is what they called that chapter), Books, Music, Toys, and other collectible items.<br /> I was interested in learning more about French Provincial furniture, and several other furniture types were covered-briefly. I learned that if you want to get a good deal of information about any one type of item, it is best to consult a book that specializes in that area. A short paragraph, or page or two about something really scratches the surface. Most likely the specific piece you have in mind will not be covered.<br /> This is a great book for general education. After all, you never know what you will stumble on that is of great value, and is ready to be given away. I think collecting is a matter of, if you really like it, then it is for you. It is just as well to know how much it is worth, and where it came from, and how old it is. In a general sense, this book will give that all to you. A nice read for someone like myself who is not seasoned in antiquity.<br /> A lot of museums, historical societies, and collectors helped to provide the information that is in this book. Highly recommended.	2003-06-11
US	51956455	RYH8E17TN7UBZ	0609809822	709266664	Kovels' Antiques & Collectibles Price List 2003, 35th Edition	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Phew, It's a good thing the paper isn't thick	This book is a whopping 896 pages. Crammed with pricing of collectibles. For the most part, since it covers such a vast array of items, it is a worded listing of the object, and a price. Sprinkled on the bottom of the page, are a few of the more renouned items in a black and white photo. If you are an experienced antique dealer, trader, or rummager, this book is something to take along when you are &quot;finding&quot;. It has the price list of everything out there, as long as you can figure out what those things are called.<br /> The nice thing is that the price for this book, considering the size of the volume, you can't help but want it. Even if you only use it once, it will pay for itself, in knowing what market value is on the object.<br /> In the car business they have NADA, in antiques they have the Kovell's price list. If you are into antiquing, this is a must have.	2003-06-11
US	51956455	R2UGERX9V7AYDV	006001203X	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	4	13	18	N	Y	My two cents worth	I never met a man that I could not learn something from. Thank you Dr Atkins for bringing to the forefront, just how critical it is for us to eliminate white processed flour products and cane sugar from our diet. These two products result in high insulin levels in our blood stream, and that not only block fat elimination, but also creates it. Eating animal protein does not create that problem. I think a lot of hysteria is created because in order to broadcast the pain free diet, much is made over the issue of being able to eat animal fat, and still lose weight. It is not necessary to eat animal fat in quantity to lose weight on this diet. Why not do this diet and eat lean meats? Lean cuts, and more fish and fowl. If you are a big beefeater, look into local farmers who raise their herds organically, without the use of growth hormones. They sell in quantity at about 70 cents per pound. Freezers are cheap, as well as the 39 dollars per year in electricity it takes to run them. Do it up right.<br />The other thing that I think is worthy of mention is that the word carbohydrates is overused. White flour and cane sugar are carbohydrates, but so is an orange, or a grapefruit, or a piece of asparagus, or lettuce, or a cucumber. In the Nutri System program you can eat all the lettuce, cucumber, and celery you want. In the Fit for Life program, you eat all the fruits and vegetables you want, and still lose the weight. They tell you not to mix proteins and starches at the same time, which results in you eating your large salad or steamed vegetable with just the meat, but not the bread. Same path, different journey. In Back to Eden by Jethro Kloss, a book that you find in all of the health food stores, we learn that everything our body is made of comes from the earthen soil. Nutritionally abundant soil makes a nutritionally abundant plant, and then we eat the plant. He argues that when we eat an animal, we are getting the nutrition second hand. Dr Weil suggests that our diets should consist of no more than 20 percent meat. Dr Bernie Siegel in \\"Love Medicine and Miracles\\" states that, \\"Even lovers and vegetarians have to die someday\\" Dietitians are not known to agree universally with one another.<br />Next point is the overwhelming statistics that prove that those who undergo the Atkins \\"treatment\\" have lower levels of LDLs. (Bad cholesterol) If you have a 250 pound person, who now weighs 150 pounds, you have lower LDLs. Why not maintain a low fat intake, and enjoy your favorite meats, cooked lean, but seasoned with natures flavorings. I noticed that the latest statistics published on the Atkins diet, conclude that the participants did have lower LDLs while on the diet, but later on in the results, they added, that the participants were eating two servings a week of Salmon, which is know to be high in Omega 3 fatty acids. So there is a tip. Eat Salmon while undergoing the program, to offset the fat intake. But then again, why not eat the Salmon, while eating more lean, and less fat?<br />Dr Atkins states that the low fat craze has led to a diet high in carbohydrates, and that is what is to blame for Americans weight problem. Can't argue about that, but the solution is not to pig out on fat. Discovering fruits and vegetables in abundance, while strictly eliminating white flour products and cane sugar is the key to weight loss. Whole grain products are more dietetic; they are not as readily absorbed due to the increased roughage.<br />I love all of the diets. I've done most all of the major ones. I lose on the average about 20 pounds per year. Since I have been losing weight for 27 years, you could say that I have lost over 500 pounds. I do like the bears' do. I live in the Northeast. It gets cold here in the winter, and when it does, I crave fattening things. A calorie is a measurement of heat. When our bodies burn fat, or calories, they generate warmth. When the spring comes, I lose my appetite, and start eating an abundance of fruit and vegetables, limit my carbs, and eat almost zero cane sugar, and it comes off. The only thing missing out of this equation is the support. I guess that is one of the reasons why Atkins is so popular. He has created a kind of cult. The army is taking no prisoners. Either believe in the Atkins plan or be shot at sunrise. :-) It is unusual to see this level of dedication in any program.<br />Like I said, I have a lot to learn from this man. The astonishing thing is that the white flour and cane sugar create the big insulin rise. Does the animal fat not cause this rise? And if so, does a lot of it simply pass through the intestines, unassimilated by the body, due to the low insulin levels?<br />In the past year, the government, realizing America's weight problem, decided to get the major weight loss gurus together. What happened? They couldn't agree on anything. It turned into a shouting match. My approach is to study them all. Learn something from each one of them. What I have learned is that there is no one diet for everyone.<br />I hope this was helpful. I for sure will assimilate what I have learned from Dr Atkins in my annual dietary program. I thank him for that.etables, limit my carbs, and eat almost zero cane sugar, and it comes off. The only thing missing out of this equation is the support. I guess that is one of the reasons why Atkins is so popular. He has created a kind of cult. The army is taking no prisoners. Either believe in the Atkins plan or be shot at sunrise. :-) It is unusual to see this level of dedication in any program. <BR>Like I said, I have a lot to learn from this man. The astonishing thing is that the white flour and cane sugar create the big insulin rise. Does the animal fat not cause this rise? And if so, does a lot of it simply pass through the intestines, unassimilated by the body, due to the low insulin levels? <BR>In the past year, the government, realizing America's weight problem, decided to get the major weight loss gurus together. What happened? They couldn't agree on anything. It turned into a shouting match. My approach is to study them all. Learn something from each one of them. What I have learned is that there is no one diet for everyone. <BR>I hope this was helpful. I for sure will assimilate what I have learned from Dr Atkins in my annual dietary program. I thank him for that.	2003-06-10
US	51956455	R1WYGQ0HLNPUEC	1561580589	569702587	Building Traditional Kitchen Cabinets: Completely Revised and Updated	Books	5	52	59	N	Y	I love this book	In the beginning of the book, the author quotes someone saying that you should do what you love, but only write what you know about. He thanks them for that, and I thank the author for doing it. The information in this book, is written in such a way, as to prove to me, the undeniable in depth experience, the author has in the trade. He covers all the bases. True no one book can give you it all. For example, I noticed when I installed a Dishwasher, into my existing kitchen, that it snugged in perfectly, both under the counter, and between the sections. Had it been one eighth of an inch smaller, it wouldn't have gone in. From that I realized that their must be standard dimensions in the industry. The author does not cover those dimensions. What he does do is cover everything else, that most others miss. The real information and what you need to know, in order to avoid costly mistakes. What finishes to use, and when. Prepping properly. How to build your cabinetry, and mark out your layout using a story stick. Drawing a floor plan to scale. He is not afraid to share with you the basics. It really is a step by step guide. I like the guy. His writing style is a natural flow of ideas. Not clamored with egotistical sensationalism. Reminds me of good old down home American craftsmanship. Like he was part of the Shakely shop. Although not caught up in old world techniques to a fault. (He prefers random orbit round sanders to the square finish sanders) After all the Shakelies used power tools as well driven by water wheels outside, and long leather belts and pulleys.<br /> You can build any style kitchen cabinetry from the information provided. The author talks about the Early American style periods, including Shaker, Arts and Crafts, as well as Colonial. I get a feeling of the Old World Americana in the book, and yet the practicality of modern methods, tools, and techniques. He doesn't like fast drying catalyzed, toxic urethanes. He does cover many different types of finishes, and their usability. Has a chart with them all on their including the urethanes.<br /> I guess I'm rambling. What I really want to say, is that I am starting out on my quest for building the ultimate kitchen-cabinets. I spend a lot of time learning, then I begin.I have some cured Hickory that I had sawn from a sawyer. I has a beautiful light brown center. I am sure that 90 percent of what I need to know, will be gleaned from this book. No one book ever has it all, but I just feel good reading this one. It is helpful, informative, and I can't help but feel the contagious love for the beauty of a well built kitchen, that is shared by the author. I highly recommend this book. For the price, it is page for page, thought for thought, a super buy.and their usability. Has a chart with them all on their including the urethanes. <BR> I guess I'm rambling. What I really want to say, is that I am starting out on my quest for building the ultimate kitchen-cabinets. I spend a lot of time learning, then I begin.I have some cured Hickory that I had sawn from a sawyer. I has a beautiful light brown center. I am sure that 90 percent of what I need to know, will be gleaned from this book. No one book ever has it all, but I just feel good reading this one. It is helpful, informative, and I can't help but feel the contagious love for the beauty of a well built kitchen, that is shared by the author. I highly recommend this book. For the price, it is page for page, thought for thought, a super buy.	2003-06-03
US	51956455	R1C6EGN6IWDCMJ	1558704655	727701798	The Complete Guide to Contracting Your Home	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Great Book, Highly Recommended	I built an addition onto my home, and what I learned from that is, it is easier than you think. A friend of mine just had extensive work done remodeling an older home that he just bought. New electric, plumbing, heating, landscaping, garage-shop addition etc. What he learned from that is the General Contractor he hired was busier making everything more expensive, rather than running the job. Now he is finishing the job himself, and doing a good job of being his own GC. This book gives you step by step instructions> great hand holding every step of the way. With checklists for each stage of the game: What to look out for, what is needed, and what works. This book can save you a bundle, and keep you on top of what is going on. Definitely worth every penny. Highly recommended.	2003-05-20
US	51956455	R12YL6AHTTAIRJ	0806905352	137812880	Making Workbenches: * Planning * Building * Outfitting	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Great for step by step instructions.	This book, unlike the others, gives you a step by step description of how to assemble the bench. I have some other books, and they go into the different types of benches very well. They also have some blueprints for specs of the different types. This book by Sam Allen makes it easy to understand, for us novice bench builders, how the whole thing comes together. Just one blow up diagram of his, instantly explains, how each section, from the top, the front edge, the tool tray, legs etc, all come together. Until now benches appeared to me to be made up from a lot of 4 inch stock. Not so, only certain areas are. Anyhow, this is a great book to get in your quest for the ultimate bench, and the price is wonderful for something so well illustrated. Buy it you won't be sorry.	2003-05-09
US	51956455	R1D3GOWSQO4DRA	0865733198	619867893	Upholstery Basics (Singer)	Books	5	65	65	N	Y	This book is tops	I was looking for a book that would show me how to re-upholster antique French Provincial furniture. This book shows you how. It is so well illustrated, that I wouldn't hesitate to tackle the job myself. Complete instruction on how to install padding, liners or fabric, stapling the edge, then trimming the overage, then installing the braiding with brass tacks. To look at the outside, I always thought it was attached with the tacks, when in reality, the material is attached first underneath with staples. That creates an even overall attachment. Then  you can concentrate on adding the brass tacks to the brading-cover evenly.<br />That is just one example of the step by step instructions-something unusual in most books. A picture says a thousand words, so it is well illustrated with photographs.<br />  It is easy to be disappointed in how to books, this is not one of them. I don't have anything negative to say about this book at all. Buy it, you won't be sorry.	2003-03-28
US	51956455	R15R4Q59Q2QEX4	1561584002	431077763	The Complete Illustrated Guide To Shaping Wood	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	If you are interested in building the finest pieces	This book covers some areas that will enable you to build some of the finest pieces of woodworking and furniture. For example a step by step explanation of how to create a flaming finial, to top off your best projects is illustrated: From the beginning of turning it on a lathe, to the first level of carving the flutes, to each successive layer. The one he creates out of walnut is the style that I like the most. Additionally making a claw foot, is well illustrated, just the same.<br />This book does not cover the basics, so one to add to your collection, as either a hopeful, or an advanced course of applications. It is a motivator, because he shows you the kind of work, that inspires us into higher levels in the art form.<br />Well illustrated, with clear photographs and descriptions. All in all a 5 star book, you will want to feature it on your book shelf, and in the works you will be motivated and instructed to create.	2003-03-20
US	51956455	R3TLDZ15S9FHTF	1561582891	728572871	The Bandsaw Book	Books	5	86	87	N	Y	This is an excellent book	If your new to band saws as I was, this is the book for you. I think that those who are skilled at the tool could glean useful information from it as well, but not to the degree as the novice. He covers, of course, everything you could possibly want to know about band saws. Blade choices, how to set up (which is really important to get top accurate performance), which size of unit is best suited to your needs, and charts showing what degree of curve you could expect out of different size blades. Additionally the type of material, and blade teeth differences, and their best suited application for different tasks, which is key to know.<br />This book will be beneficial if you are contemplating buying a saw. Buy this book first, and be a knowledgeable purchaser. It is a well written, brightly and cheerfully illustrated, with full color photographs. The style makes it an easy and informative read. All in all a great book, unless you already have been using a band saw for many years.	2003-03-20
US	51956455	R4M7OFCJ08STD	006109224X	281927493	Pulling Your Own Strings: Dynamic Techniques for Dealing with Other People and Living Your Life as You Choose	Books	5	57	64	N	Y	Read this book first, then Your Sacred Self	Dr Dyer is a rare individual. He really understands. He has found simplicity. The truth is simple, that which I have yet to understand! I read this book first, and felt compelled to learn how to pull my own strings. I freed myself from outside influences by reading this book, Pulling Your Own Strings. We learn to be more than a sailboat, drifting on the sea with a fixed sail, frolicking about, at the mercy of every wave and breeze.  I learned how to be effective at grabbing the control panel, that pull the strings of my life, which at times takes a bit of assertion.  Combining that with one of his other books, &quot;Your Sacred Self, I gained peace. I finally found the key to dealing with stress. I did so by learning what meditation really is from him. Instead of a lotus position, and humming a mantra, I learned that it is simply sitting or lying still, undisturbed, for ten or fifteen minutes, letting all thoughts leave my mind. Each thought is tied to an emotion. You come to a place that is quiet and peaceful, and your arise refreshed, renewed, and unfettered with stress and resentments. Then your greatest problem solving mind is present, solutions appear. It is true. What a great tool. Instead of resorting to addictive, and destructive habits, or substances to deal with stress, he has shown me the ultimate solution.<br />So there you have it, with Pulling Your Own Strings, you learn to be the master of your own life, and recognize those, and those things, that try to direct us, and not neccessarily for unselfish reasons. Then freed from outside control, we begin to see that the solutions to our lives are available to us from within. In Your Sacred Self, he teaches us that ego is controlling, and dominating our lives. It is at war with your greater spiritual self. It keeps us from sitting still. Always striving, but never arriving. Let the noise and clamor cease. We are all one together. We don't need ego driven domination, but rather cooperation. Get rid of the anger. Learn how to eliminate the negative influences in your life. The most powerful way for someone else to control you, is to make you angry. Once they see it no longer works, they usually leave you alone, or it makes them angrier that they no longer can control you. &quot;It is like heaping coals of fire on their heads&quot; Then acquire joy and peace. I know it sounds like cliches, but it is true, and I don't know how else to say it.<br />Dr Dyer gives you the tools, to build a new house. Or should I say, he reminds you of the house that has been there all along. Only the expressions are original, the thoughts lie within us all.er. Learn how to eliminate the negative influences in your life. The most powerful way for someone else to control you, is to make you angry. Once they see it no longer works, they usually leave you alone, or it makes them angrier that they no longer can control you. &quot;It is like heaping coals of fire on their heads&quot; Then acquire joy and peace. I know it sounds like cliches, but it is true, and I don't know how else to say it. <BR>Dr Dyer gives you the tools, to build a new house. Or should I say, he reminds you of the house that has been there all along. Only the expressions are original, the thoughts lie within us all.	2003-03-19
US	51956455	R3E9PERGBL6V97	0312271913	728373678	How To Publish and Promote Online	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	This book gave me motivation to go ahead	This is not the catch all of self publishing. It is on the other hand a good motivator for those who are starting out getting published. It is a grass roots effort by those who have started with nothing, and are now selling a good deal of books.<br /> I recommend it. I was totally encouraged after reading it.	2003-03-19
US	51956455	RHSKZNUIATTVY	0061094757	987789590	Your Sacred Self: Making the Decision to Be Free	Books	5	87	92	N	Y	I don't think it can be said, better than the back cover	In this liberating enriching book, Dr. Wayne W. Dyer teaches us how to tap into the power of our higher selves and live each day, regardless of what we do, with a greater sense of peace and fullfillment.<br />Your Sacred Self reveals a three step program to help us understand our place in the world and develop a sense of satisfaction with ourselves and others. Step by step, we can change the way we experience life-moving from our insatiable need for more, to an awareness of abundance; from a sense of ourselves as sinful and inferior, to an acceptance of ourselves as divine; from our hunger to acheive, to the detachment that brings true freedom.<br />Inspiring, uplifting, and illuminating, Your Sacred Self can bring the profound words of this unique teacher and guide into our lives and our hearts.<br /><br />I have to add that this book has opened my eyes in many ways. At first I freed myself from outside influences by reading Dr Dyers book, Pulling Your Own Strings. Now I am not a sailboat, drifting on the sea with a fixed sail, frolicking about, at the mercy of every wave and breeze. Combining that with this book, to give me peace, I learned how to be effective at grabbing the control panel, that pull the strings of my life, which at times takes a bit of force. Then with the help of this book I learned how to achieve true autonomy. As Dr Dyer says, \\"I am complete unto myself\\"<br /><br />I seek what is already inside of me. It is inside of all of us. Instead of looking to others, I know it is in me, and in you, and we are all one together. The ego gets in the way of that. He instructs us that the ego is at war with your spiritual self. Always thinking, always striving, but never arriving. \\"Be still and know that I am God\\"<br /><br />Dr, Dyer taught me how to meditate. I always thought it was about sitting in a lotus position, humming mantras, like, umm umm. I tried that, it didn't work. Dr Dyer explains, that it is simply the clearing the mind of thoughts. Every thought has an emotion tied to it. Now when stresses are heaped upon me, instead of resorting to a destructive addictive, practice or substance, I now meditate and melt the stress away. It is simple. I lay down, with my arms relaxed, and my palms down on my chest. It can also be done sitting anywhere where it is quiet and undisturbed. I close my eyes, and let all thoughts disappear. I get to the edge of falling asleep, but stay awake. All of a sudden a calm comes over me. A feeling of peace, I know that I am at my core. I arise feeling refreshed, and undisturbed. Solutions are at my disposal. Things that I thought were important, disappear, and my mind knows what really matters, and I attend to it. I guess that is why I read an article that stated that a major corporation in America had a meditation room. The corporate executives get so stressed that they can't think, they push themselves away from the desk, spend ten minutes in the meditation room, and come back refreshed. Solutions appear effortlessly. The alpha state or relaxed state in brain wave terminology, is the state with the greatest problem solving ability.<br /><br />Dr Dyer also frees us in this book from the insatiable need for more. Instead of constantly striving to have more and more, we become aware that we already have abundance. The irony of our thinking is that we are striving to have more, to prove to ourselves and others, that we have abundance, and in so doing we are spending the money and security we need in order to have abundance. We destroy that which we are trying to achieve.<br /><br />When we find our core, our center, and our purpose in life, we then find that abundance comes, pressed down and full measure. \\"Seek ye first the kingdom of heaven, then all things will be added unto thee\\"<br /><br />Enlighten yourself as have so many others, read this book. As a matter of fact, I would advise you to get all of Dr Dyers books. He has quite a few that have been released for quite some time. They are at a price point, that buying a half a dozen paperbacks, cost the same as buying someone elses, hard cover version. Life and truth are not exclusive to book cover styles. It will be the best investment you can make.<br /><br />I've written too much already. Become who your really are. Let the noise and clamor cease. Your strength is found in nature and everything around us. Just have to stop and see it. This book teaches us how. People travel around the world, to learn that what they seek is already in their back yard.en paperbacks, cost the same as buying someone elses, hard cover version. Life and truth are not exclusive to book cover styles. It will be the best investment you can make.     I've written too much already. Become who your really are. Let the noise and clamor cease. Your strength is found in nature and everything around us. Just have to stop and see it. This book teaches us how. People travel around the world, to learn that what they seek is already in their back yard.	2003-03-18
US	51956455	R7R3W8EWNAA8N	0918804051	30942396	Understanding Wood: A Craftsman's Guide to Wood Technology	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A Lifetime of Knowledge Isn't Gained in a Single Sitting	This book may appear overwhelming to the person who is new to woodworking, and just wants to make a simple project. As you grow deeper in your skills, this book is a must read. It is fascinating for all levels. Hoadley starts off with looking at wood on a cellular level. The different types of wood, have different cell characteristics. If you look at it scientifically, reducing a substance to its cellular level gives you a cross comparative basis, in which to make relational references. Seeming too technically specific for the person, more interested in router techniques, than a science class. But that is just the beginning. He soon goes into the figure in wood, wood identification, water in wood, coping with wood movement, strength of wood, and other properties. He also covers machining wood, joining wood, and finishing wood. Finishing up with modifying wood, the woodworkers raw materials, and Forests past and future.<br />I would advise someone who is interested in woodworking, to use this book in addition to the others they may have pertaining to woodworking technique. When you get into the building of projects, and see wood &quot;behavior&quot; then this book will all the more make sense. The relationship of how it was sawn and cured, and in what section of the tree it came from, and be relational to why the wood did what it did. It is the easiest to learn that way.<br />I found it to be a fascinating read. It is like fine art. At first you say, wow that is great. Then as you see it more and more, you come to appreciate the layers of laws that apply to the medium, and gain all the more from it over time.<br />For example you may marvel at being able to make a perfect fitting mortise and tenon joint, but do you know what the best possible orientation of growth rings in that form of joinery. One way it is apt to split, another way, it will last 100 years. It may not be as much fun as whether Bosch or Makita makes the best router, but inevitably it will result in a long lasting product. It is a fascinating read. Something that should be put on the shelf as a reference source. Read it ahead of time, and read it afterwards to explain, why this thing did that.<br />Is this the science of wood? Sure it is, but it is done in such a way that, if you don't mind digging through learning the terminology, so you can understand the higher laws of wood joinery and the like, resulting in knowing what may have taken an old master a lifetime to learn. Parts of it are an easy read. Everyone will glean valuable experience from it. It is not so simple that you can have a beginner explain every sentence, but the learning curve is rewarding.<br />I find Hoadley to be a technician, as opposed to a salesman. Technicians are interested in purely the scientific understanding of the fundamentals, and the relationship of behaviors to bring about the desired result. A salesman is interested in the excitement and appeal of the project, but not the depth from which Hoadley covers the subject. I must admit, that at times it is a dry read. It can best be described by taking a small amount of text from the book. Here is two sections on mortise and tenon joinery. He starts out with this: &quot;Fastening of end grain to side grain joints can be accomplished with a high level of success using mortise and tenon joinery&quot; Later in the same subject he states, &quot;The improvement in mechanical advantage obtained by increasing height is offset by increased dimensional conflict between longitudinal and transverse grain orientation.&quot; There you have it. If we knew the terminology that he uses, we could better understand the meaning of the second sentence. What it means is that if you increase the height of the joint, you create a wider surface area, and that creates a stronger joint, but that is offset by the additional expansion and contraction movement in a wider piece of wood. Since the boards in a mortise and tenon joint are typically joined together with grains running against one another, this is a major consideration. We knew that! :-) I had to read that sentence and ponder it before I knew what he meant. At times it reminds me of learing the computer. At times it is frustration, but with understanding, which is a breakthrough, come elation. This book will take you to higher laws and levels.<br />I guess I am getting wordy. I am excited about this book. As Woodenboat states it on the back cover, &quot;Clearly the best book available on the subject.&quot;<br />I highly recommend you to buy this book. It is an easy read, and it is a complex read, all wrapped up in one book. Each time you reference it, you will derive more and more information from it. It is like fine art. A lifetime of knowledge isn't gained in a single sitting. No matter how many years you spend in woodworking, this book will be right there with you, ever unfolding the true relationship of the product we have come to love; Wood!ains running against one another, this is a major consideration. We knew that! :-) I had to read that sentence and ponder it before I knew what he meant. At times it reminds me of learing the computer. At times it is frustration, but with understanding, which is a breakthrough, come elation. This book will take you to higher laws and levels. <BR>I guess I am getting wordy. I am excited about this book. As Woodenboat states it on the back cover, &quot;Clearly the best book available on the subject.&quot; <BR>I highly recommend you to buy this book. It is an easy read, and it is a complex read, all wrapped up in one book. Each time you reference it, you will derive more and more information from it. It is like fine art. A lifetime of knowledge isn't gained in a single sitting. No matter how many years you spend in woodworking, this book will be right there with you, ever unfolding the true relationship of the product we have come to love; Wood!	2003-03-17
US	51956455	R11F3L9DQT8OQ9	1582970912	545152146	Complete Guide to Self Publishing: Everything You Need to Know to Write, Publish, Promote, and Sell Your Own Book (Self-Publishing 4th Edition)	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	The most comprehensive book on the subject Period	I spent a lot of time, as a budding author, researching material on how to publish, write and promote a book. It was frustrating, trying to find good resources. Many books are written on the subject, but seems to be a graveyard of information because it is relevant to every writer. This book is different. It not only goes into every possible area of information you will come across, it covers it from those who have been involved in every aspect of writing, publishing and promoting. It even covers the new e-publishing field. At 512 pages their is plenty of room for thorough coverage. Dare I say this is the bible in the industry for publishing. Sure! If you are a writer, it's a must have. Defintely ten stars, if you could give it that much. Comprehensive, well thought out, revised, edited, polished, and finalized. Buy it, you won't be sorry.	2003-03-05
US	51956455	R2691V0MM4IS00	1577490975	711179974	Staying Strong: A Senior's Guide to a More Active and Independent Life	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	Read this book, and read the Okinawa Program	I'm in my early fifties, and I must say, the reality of being fit is not as easy as it once was. It will be again. All I have to learn is that I have to start out small, think tall, and gradually reach over the wall. This book shows you how to do that. Seniors lose their ability to get about, and that starts a long list of mobility related problems.<br />What used to be strength training for me, was curling 120 pounds. I will start agaain, with 5. Once my tendons, muscles, etc, grow accustomed to the movement, I will add 5 more, and so on.<br />If you have an aging parent, getting out of a chair gradually becomes an effort. So you start there. Help them to get out of the chair ten times in a row. Then walk them around the house for 12 or 15 minutes, on your arm if need be. Then let them rest. Two days later, do it again. Then gradually increase it. This book shows you how.<br />I spoke with a woman who had multiple Masters Degrees, and she donated her time at a local Senior center. She remarked that an 88 year old woman came into the center, unable to walk. They started to exercise her. Now she dances the Polka.<br />Seniors lose it, because they don't use it. Going from the couch to the kitchen, to the bathroom, is not sufficient exercise to build strength, stamina, and cardiovascular benefits.<br />Some seniors are active. Even they can benefit from this book. No matter what level they acheive, the same rules apply.<br />What is important is not to rush a program. That leads to overuse, and acute injuries. Inch by inch, anything is a cinch.<br />With an increase in exercise, comes an increase in appetite, which leads to an increase in the volume of essential nutrients. Success begets success.<br />See how the elder Okinawans do it, in the book &quot;The Okinawan Program&quot; Many are active tending gardens, and bicycling even after the age of 100. Dispel the myths.<br />Read &quot;Staying Strong a Seniors Guide to a more Active and Independent Life&quot; and visit your parents, or stay with them more. The will to live, and the will to thrive, comes from the inside, and the outside. Sometimes our ends are thrust on us, and sometimes it comes from simply running out of hope and energy.<br />Exercise is the single most beneficial health aid we have, and this book, will get you back on track.<br />I hope this review helps many to take the step. Beginning is half done.rents, or stay with them more. The will to live, and the will to thrive, comes from the inside, and the outside. Sometimes our ends are thrust on us, and sometimes it comes from simply running out of hope and energy. <BR>Exercise is the single most beneficial health aid we have, and this book, will get you back on track. <BR>I hope this review helps many to take the step. Beginning is half done.	2003-02-08
US	51956455	RVWCKWX15SBQO	1558706135	239615852	Design Your Own Furniture (Popular Woodworking)	Books	5	80	86	N	N	I almost under rated this book, what a mistake that would be	When I first opened this book, I honestly misjudged it. Lots and lots of pictures of furniture is not what I was looking for. Then I realized they are pictures of pieces he had built. This book is a must have. Read on to see why. On second impression I was also disappointed when I saw that it was only 128 pages. It is a large book in every other dimension. High quality color photographs run throughout. The topics covered in the sections, which only run about 4 pages at times, seemed like we were covering basics. Beginning chapters are: Design elements, Creating a drawing, creating a materials list, sizing from a photograph, and small shop considerations.<br />When I read the name of the book, I jumped at purchasing it. I wanted to learn how to design furniture, and build it on a step by step basis. You know the specifics of joinery and the like. I was thinking about it and the intracacies of doing so. This book does not cover that. If you need to decide whether to use dowels, biscuits, or mortise and tenon joinery to join the apron to the legs on your table, this book will not help with that. It will show you how to imagine the flow of the pieces when you make up your drawings. The aesthetics are really what the very best pieces are all about, and that is what this book gives you a feel for. How to create the most beautiful pieces. That is what I feel about the pieces the author has created. Many of them are far more attractive than the furniture that we see today. The blend of the proper woods, in proportion to size, and function.<br />He makes you spend a lot of time with pencil and paper, thinking out your piece. How will each and every aspect of it go together, and in what shape, angle and size. Isn't this what we all need. Instead of being fixed in the plans delivered from those who are building standard appearance works.<br />The later chapters cover: Putting it all together, Beds, dressers, sideboards, and hutches, bookcases, tables, chairs, wall and base cabinets, desks, and entertainment centers.<br />It is important to say that as an enthusiast, I have been recording the New Yankee Workshop for some time now, thinking I would be able to pull out a tape, and review it when I build a similar piece. What I have learned from all of that is that their is really a limited amount of joints and procedures that we need to learn, to tackle most any project. Notice I said, Most any, carving and highly ornate work, as well as some sophisticated veneers and or inlays are a few exceptions. Nevertheless, armed with this understanding, this book \\"Design your own furniture\\" fills a niche that I have not seen anywhere else. How to conceive your own project. Beauty is in the eyes of the beholder, and this book will take you by the hand, and lead you into the creation of pieces of furniture that will be uniquely yours, both in style and function. When you see the pieces that were made in the book, you will realize that the author has transended the standards.<br />I really hate to boast about a book, knowing that with such high expectations, anything that arrives, will seem like a disappointment. BUT when you take the third impression, and really start to read it as I have, you will realize, that this, more than others, is the key to your real attainment as a woodworking artist. Not an extremist, but rather a sense of freedom from the standard, while still maintaining the standard format and function of the designs that we have all come to know. I know this book will be helpful, and I hope this review is also.ts, desks, and entertainment centers. <BR>It is important to say that as an enthusiast, I have been recording the New Yankee Workshop for some time now, thinking I would be able to pull out a tape, and review it when I build a similar piece. What I have learned from all of that is that their is really a limited amount of joints and procedures that we need to learn, to tackle most any project. Notice I said, Most any, carving and highly ornate work, as well as some sophisticated veneers and or inlays are a few exceptions. Nevertheless, armed with this understanding, this book \\"Design your own furniture\\" fills a niche that I have not seen anywhere else. How to conceive your own project. Beauty is in the eyes of the beholder, and this book will take you by the hand, and lead you into the creation of pieces of furniture that will be uniquely yours, both in style and function. When you see the pieces that were made in the book, you will realize that the author has transended the standards. <BR>I really hate to boast about a book, knowing that with such high expectations, anything that arrives, will seem like a disappointment. BUT when you take the third impression, and really start to read it as I have, you will realize, that this, more than others, is the key to your real attainment as a woodworking artist. Not an extremist, but rather a sense of freedom from the standard, while still maintaining the standard format and function of the designs that we have all come to know. I know this book will be helpful, and I hope this review is also.	2003-01-24
US	51956455	RDYXZY3Y9O3VC	0609607472	969569334	The Okinawa Program: How the World's Longest-Lived People Achieve Everlasting Health--and How You Can Too	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Read this book and live a long and healthy life	As a former Program Coordinator for the American Heart Association, I always had an inclination toward the obvious. Many get lost or should I say quagmired in minute details, this book does none of that. The study was 25 years in the making, so this book page for page contains more of the simple truth than any other book of its kind.<br />Gleaning the information from the Heart Association text, and a way with mechanical reasoning, I learned that the truth is simple. I felt like I had a responsibility to share what I had learned. So many are getting lost in complex details, and the truth is so simple. This book greatly relieved me of that responsibility. Finally someone puts it all in plain simple text. It is an easy and enlightening read. If you really want to improve your life and your health, you do what this book has to offer. Otherwise you can lose yourself in a sea of pills, and masking symptoms.<br />Many are critical of this book stating, \\"Oh it is in the Okinawans genes, or it is their environment\\" Either is true. When the young Okinawans in Okinawa take up our fast food practices, they fall to the same disability rates that we do. Additionally when the elder Okinawans move into this country and adopt our ways of eating, and living, they too fall in line with our mortality, and disability rates.<br />Read this book. It is so reasonable now in price for the paperback.<br />Many statisticians love a good argument. They get the opportunity to puff themselves up, and look important. Unfortunately they crush a flower under their feet in order to do so.<br />When I first read this book, I had a yellow marker, and after highlighting over half the sentences, and on some pages all of the sentences, halfway into the book, I finally decided, that the whole book is worth highlighting, and read on.<br />Out of all the books I have read on health, their are very few that even approach the truth and simplicity of this one. Buy it and cherish life. The hardest thing for people to learn is that they are a temple, and the body is to be worshipped, after all who's image is it made in? Our bodies are not something to take for granted and abuse. If your heart is in it, this book will show you how. Sorry for getting so deep, but I can not put into words, the importance of what this book has to say.<br />You wouldn't mind living to over a hundred years of age, if you were physically fit and active the way the Okinawans who practice the old ways are.o learn is that they are a temple, and the body is to be worshipped, after all who's image is it made in? Our bodies are not something to take for granted and abuse. If your heart is in it, this book will show you how. Sorry for getting so deep, but I can not put into words, the importance of what this book has to say. <BR>You wouldn't mind living to over a hundred years of age, if you were physically fit and active the way the Okinawans who practice the old ways are.	2003-01-06
US	51956455	R3TATOWDCANJMT	0446677760	715065171	The Wrinkle Cure: Unlock the Power of Cosmeceuticals for Supple, Youthful Skin	Books	5	35	46	N	Y	The Truth is Self Evident..All You Have To Do Is Believe It	I bought this book after seeing Dr. Perricone on WHYY the educational channel. I had read Back to Eden by Jethro Kloss and was impressed with the drawings showing the skin differences between one who had a drinking to excess problem, and the same person after getting his excess under control. I have a dietetic program that I utilize that is based on non stimulating food. I notice a definite improvement in my skin when I follow it. So I was sold on the book before I read it. I learned some interesting new things in reading it. For example the effect coffee has on your complexion, and equally as important the effect it has on your weight. I still drink coffee on and off, but actually have come to prefer Green Tea instead.<br />  I must admit that I disagree with the Dr. when he prescribes some shellfish as part of his program, considering that the risk of eating a bad piece of shellfish, which results in Hepatitis, which has a 50% mortality rate. I had an acquaintance who was the unlucky one to get the bad clam, and I don't wish to recant his experience.<br />  My suggestion is to buy the book. Get absorbed in the idea that a diet that is rich in the abundance of the earth, will have a remarkable effect on your appearance, and overall health. Notice the condition of your skin before embarking on the program, then check it under the same lights, and mirror after a week or two. The reality is that after doing it for extended periods of time, new cells glow brightly. You will think that you are reversing time. Considering that we become new people every couple of years, due to cell reproduction, it is easy to understand that if you create an ideal clean, and abundantly healthy environment you will see new cells that are remarkably youthful. Then environment includes air pollutants (second hand smoke) as well as those found in drinking water, and the most importantly the food we eat.<br />I strongly reccomend this book. It is technical in it's approach, but not offensibly so. I also suggest that reading two other books, will open your way of thinking about health, and healing. Those are The Okinawa Program, and Back to Eden by Jethro Kloss. I could talk for hours about that, but it would not be relevant to the review.<br />My suggestion, buy Dr Perricone's book, follow the diet, see the remarkable results, then decide if you would like to follow the rest of the program for any specific cosmetic condition you may have. It's an excellent read. Well deserved 5 stars, and 10 stars because it is helping so many to live healthier, happier lives.I also suggest that reading two other books, will open your way of thinking about health, and healing. Those are The Okinawa Program, and Back to Eden by Jethro Kloss. I could talk for hours about that, but it would not be relevant to the review. <BR>My suggestion, buy Dr Perricone's book, follow the diet, see the remarkable results, then decide if you would like to follow the rest of the program for any specific cosmetic condition you may have. It's an excellent read. Well deserved 5 stars, and 10 stars because it is helping so many to live healthier, happier lives.	2002-12-25
US	51956455	R1LZSKE481JUPJ	1564582914	602995983	American Horticultural Society Encyclopedia of Gardening (American Horticultural Society Practical Guides)	Books	5	47	47	N	N	This is it. It's a must have. Truly an Encyclopedia	It's is worth the money. It is the single most comprehensive book on Gardening. I know it does not give super detailed descriptions of every plant out there. Their supplemental book can help you with that. Buy this one first. When I built a greenhouse, this book have several pages on construction, types of materials, venting, watering systems, cooling, hydrating, you name it, it was covered. When my neighbors pine tree was getting a white pithy coating on the lower leaves, this book described the problem to a T, and had several methods of curing it. No matter where I go, in irrigation, propogation, seed starting, grading, setting up a bed, identifying which plants work, where, when, and in what kind of soil, climate, etc., this book is there. They must of had a zillion contributing editors-authors create this work, because nobody knows everything this book has to offer. It is big, it is well illustrated, and a definite must have for any gardener. It is even a great read during the winter, for planning your spring garden. Even at this price, it is about twice what other books cost, but it is 5 times the book. It's a bargain. In the long run it will save you money by avoiding costly mistakes. I highly reccomend it.	2002-12-17
US	51956455	R1RVME9SE7IZY5	0806979224	570286511	Complete Guide to Woodcarving	Books	3	20	21	N	Y	Not at all what I expected. I'm disappointed.	What I was hoping for was a book that would be a complete guide to wood carving. This is somewhat of a history book. It is written in a plain text, and black and white photos that makes it a boring read. You know the feeling of picking up a book, and it feels right. It's an easy read, logical, concise, and the concepts jump out at you, resulting in some WoWs! Well this book is none of that. Although the beginning covers some different woods that are good for carving, additionally he covers the basic wood carving tools, but not how to use them. It would be like, here is a picture of a table saw, but let's not go into how to use it. He goes into the neccessity of the tools having to be sharp, that's good. 90% of this book exhibits black and white pictures of finished wood carvings, and where they originated from. I know what carved wood looks like, I want to know how to do it, and if I can enjoy the instruction, all the better. Reading this book is a lot of work. The front cover gives me the impression that I am going to get instruction on wood carving. As absurd as this may seem, I learned little from browsing the book, other than that you need to draw an outline on the wood of what you plan on carving. I have tons of books on woodworking, and all but one are keepers. This one is going back.<br />My Dad was a wood carver, and I proudly display his works. I did a wood carving project in a college art class. I just bought a matched set of Freud Hand Carving Chisels, and plan on keeping Dads antique set sharpened and oiled for antiquity. What I need now is someone to emulate with clear concise instruction on the ins and outs of carving, to create mind blowing pieces, of gorgeous wood, and finished to please the eye as well as the best interests of preserving the wood.<br />This book is written for the experienced wood carver, who has a lifetime of projects under his belt, and wants to sit around and talk about wood carving styles, and history.<br />I have a book that explains how to lathe turn a flaming finial out of walnut, then hand carve the cone shaped dome into a flame that resembles a torch. Attached to a bandsawn, curly back piece of fine furniture. He shows you how to form the lines, reduce it to the first layer of petals,  then doing the next level of the flame lines. As soon as I saw it, I knew it was a must do. Simple, well explained, and color photographed explanation of what to do. I was hoping that this book would do the same thing. Complete guide to wood carving? Great if I was taking a history course, but for someone who needs to carve claw feet for your hand carved furniture, this is not the one. I have a living room full of 17th Century French Provincial hand carved furniture, and learned something from it. Pick out the correct proportional design, lay it out, draw it in, then begin. I'm going to look into buying another book.ins how to lathe turn a flaming finial out of walnut, then hand carve the cone shaped dome into a flame that resembles a torch. Attached to a bandsawn, curly back piece of fine furniture. He shows you how to form the lines, reduce it to the first layer of petals,  then doing the next level of the flame lines. As soon as I saw it, I knew it was a must do. Simple, well explained, and color photographed explanation of what to do. I was hoping that this book would do the same thing. Complete guide to wood carving? Great if I was taking a history course, but for someone who needs to carve claw feet for your hand carved furniture, this is not the one. I have a living room full of 17th Century French Provincial hand carved furniture, and learned something from it. Pick out the correct proportional design, lay it out, draw it in, then begin. I'm going to look into buying another book.	2002-07-19
US	51956455	R1M1JPFKHB75K2	156158293X	650262702	Turn a Bowl with Ernie Conover: Getting Great Results the First Time Around	Books	5	11	26	N	Y	With Celebrity status comes the expectation of greatness	Ernie Conover is a well known figure in the world of woodworking. It is a good book, but I was disappointed in the quality of the material that he chose to use as his examples. Wood with bark running through it, or discolored can be exceptional, but these pieces are simply diseased wood that is not attractive. To sign pieces that are less than stellar is a head knocker. Their are other books where the author has chosen to use some exceptional woods, that nature has invaded, and left a mark of beauty. Bowls with exotic colors running through them, and a natural bark edge, but these are not examples of that.<br /> It is just my opinion, because I know that beauty is in the eyes of the beholder, so I should be open minded.<br />The plus side of the book is that it shares with you some wood turning techniques that are exceptional. A lot can be learned here, so I do overall highly recommend the book. I just have a hard time getting past the attractiveness of the examples used.	2002-07-05
US	51956455	R300B4OPIQRXU3	0941936562	110223722	Building Cabinet Doors & Drawers	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	All the stuff that really matters. Buy this one first.	Danny Proulx created a book that has all the ingredients that really matter. He covers all the different types of doors and drawers, and the essential techniques required to build them. Combining this book with experience at woodworking basics, and you are on your way to making first class custom cabinets and doors. I like his tips, notes, and safety notes. Gleaning from 30 years of experience, he mentions the common pitfalls in many of the applications.<br />  I had bought some router bits from a gentleman in Canada, who was very helpful. He referred me to someone he knew, who really knew what they were talking about. He referred me to Danny Proulx the author.I coincidentally had bought his book the week before, and was then recommended to him.  So I wrote to him about some questions I had. He was kind enough to get back to me with specific answers. I was impressed that a renowned author with many publications to his name, would take the time out to respond to my questions. The nice thing about the author is that he really cares.<br />  This book is a keeper. One to keep at the ready to refer to again and again when developing your next project, or for reviewing the specifics of one. It's an easy read. Engineered to simplicity. All in all I give it 5 stars.	2001-09-23
