US	51963567	R20HKC0ZTA2HLG	1892284987	129847228	The Big Blow	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Classic, wonderful Lansdale	This novella has one of the best opening lines of all time, and classic Lansdale: \\"On an afternoon hotter than two rats (making love) in a wool sock, John McBride... arrived by ferry from mainland Texas to Galveston Island, a six-gun under his coat, and a razor in his shoe\\". The rat metaphor (he doesn't use the term I did--if I quoted him directly, this review would get tossed) did it for me.<br />Be advised that this is a novella. 153 pages, very large margins. Not saying it's not worth picking up, or reading, just warning you in case you were gonna take it to the beach expecting a long read. The story is set in 1900--it originally appeared in a shorter version in the uneven collection Revelations --and covers five days, broken down by times (4 PM, 10:21 AM, etc. ) rather than chapters. A young black man, Jack, has beaten a white man in a boxing match at the Sporting Club. The townspeople are none too thrilled about a white man losing to him and hire McBride, a vicious and successful fighter, to face off against him, offering more money if McBride will kill him. Meanwhile, the storm of the century is brewing, a dangerous tropical storm blowing in from Key West. Will they even make it to the match? Will the townspeople the book follows live through it?<br />This is classic, wonderful Lansdale. We spend a lot of time with McBride, who is entertaining but not a likable guy. In fact, most readers will probably want him dead for at least three different reasons by page 20. Jack, his opponent,  is not a saint, but he's fighting for his dignity in a racist town. Yes, the characters are racist--the n-word gets thrown around quite a lot-- but it's the characters, not the author,using the term and it's not exactly out-of-place for the location and time period. Offensive, but sadly realistic. We also follow a young couple with a baby, who have to keep moving to higher and higher ground as the flooding worsens... soon they're up to the second floor of their house, with their valuables and their poor scared horse. If you have a phobia of deep water or drowning (I do) some of the scenes, such as the description oft he furniture below them thumping on the ceiling, grating against the floor on which they stand, will make your blood turn to icewater. Actually, they'd probably make anyone's blood chill, phobia or not, especially when Lansdale follows some very unlucky men stuck out at sea on a fishing boat (shades of The Perfect Storm, but remember this story was first published in 97, way before the movie). No matter how bad off you think you are, you'll be thanking God you're not in their shoes.<br />Lansdale is that most rare and enjoyable of authors to read in that he fits all my criteria for an author who I'd spend my last 20 bucks on to read his latest: a great writer AND a great storyteller, plus this man writes with style (see the fornicating rat description). There's no-one like him out there. This HC may be pricey for the word count, but it's so well written I felt that even though I finished it in one evening, it was worth every penny.aluables and their poor scared horse. If you have a phobia of deep water or drowning (I do) some of the scenes, such as the description oft he furniture below them thumping on the ceiling, grating against the floor on which they stand, will make your blood turn to icewater. Actually, they'd probably make anyone's blood chill, phobia or not, especially when Lansdale follows some very unlucky men stuck out at sea on a fishing boat (shades of The Perfect Storm, but remember this story was first published in 97, way before the movie). No matter how bad off you think you are, you'll be thanking God you're not in their shoes.<br />Lansdale is that most rare and enjoyable of authors to read in that he fits all my criteria for an author who I'd spend my last 20 bucks on to read his latest: a great writer AND a great storyteller, plus this man writes with style (see the fornicating rat description). There's no-one like him out there. This HC may be pricey for the word count, but it's so well written I felt that even though I finished it in one evening, it was worth every penny.	2003-06-17
US	51963567	R3595S826A15CH	1569714827	961857007	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Ring of Fire	Books	5	5	5	N	N	What more could you ask for?	Maybe I should just list the elements that BTVS fans love that Ring of Fire contains. We have:<br />1. Spike and Angelus ready to rip each other's throats out fighting over Dru<br />2.Giles being pushed too far and going into Ripper mode<br />3. Jenny Calandar's spirit<br />4. Spike making a Sex Pistols reference<br />5. a temporary alliance between two characters who hate each other's guts<br />6. Kenda showing up, kicking [behind], and taking names<br />This is probably one of the top, if not THE top, Buffy graphic novels out there. It takes place during those golden months in late Season 2 when Angel was bad and moved into the mansion with Dru and a jealous, wheelchair-bound (or is he?) Spike.<br />The illustration by Sook is the best-- he captures Buffy's face, all huge sad eyes haunted by the knowledge she's inadvertantly turned her soulmate into her worst enemy, perfectly. There at least one VERY bone-chilling drawing of Angelus in a graveyard, momenarily caught by some poor b-stard of security guard's flashlight, with very bad timing.<br />Also, Doug Petrie wrote the text, and it shows. This could have been a actual episode story arc (only now it can never be as it involves the second season trio of Spike, Dru, and Angelus). There's a bonus of several pages of sketches and conceptions by the illustrator at the end, including many of the best drawings of a brokenhearted Buffy and even a mosh-pit Spike. If you're a BTVS fan, and want to invest in a graphic novel, this is the one to go for...the most inventive, best-written, truest to the series and the second season yet, and stunningly inked.<br />If you're an adult Buffy fan but maybe feel slightly geeky starting in on the graphic novels (I was worried the clerk might look at it and ask, 'uh aren't you a little old for this?'), just buy this one and you'll be both delighted and proud of yourself that you did.<br />Things are about to get VERY interesting....	2003-01-06
US	51963567	RQQ38MKQI8NXI	0345420845	35304878	Green Money (Starletta Duvall mystery)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Great story-telling, great writing	First of all, if you can, consider picking up the audio book version of this novel, by Griot audio. I didn't see it here, so I'm reviewing the PB version.<br />I met this author at a writer's conference this summer, and she was so friendly and personable (just like her main character)  thatI  thought I'd pick her book up. I'm not a big mystery reader, but if the author is talented enough, or the characters interesting enough, I grab it up. This one is worth grabbing up. Staletta Duval is an incredible character, an African-American woman (I kept picturing Pam Grier, and if the book were turned into a film, she'd be perfect) who has worked her way up to Detective Liutenent in the homicide division. The book starts off with a bang as a homeless woman is horribly burned alive in St. Francis park. Then a prostitue is killed, and Starletta and her cool Italian partner, who would probably take a bullet for her, start seeing a pattern- the killings seem to be based on a computer game called Vampire's Lair. And guess who secretly plays a lot of the game? Pampered rich kids at the local academy... but there's much more to it than that. The author --who actually has worked for the police-- fleshes out the characters well. When you hate a character, you REALLY hate a character, and when one is likeable, the author knows just how to make us fall in love with them. I also thought I knew just where the book was going, but I was proved wrong several times (I don't read a lot of mystery because I have an annoying habit of guessing the endings).It reads not only as a mystery, but also as a police procedural and crime thriller. Fans of NYPD Blue (and other similar shows) will love the book. I found the storytelling so entertaining and the chacters so likeable that I'm going to pick up the other books in the series-- and read them in order.  And if I can get my hands on the audio versions...<br />The audio book is read by the actor Marc Damon Johnson, who does a tremendous job and is great at voicing different characters-- he does an especially hilarious job with a pimp in St. Francis park in one scene, and a prostitute in two others. The audio version is over ten hours long, but he (and of course, the talented author) made it fly by.<br />This is a very talented author who created characters I definitely want to spend more time with. Check it out-this series deserves a wider audience!great at voicing different characters-- he does an especially hilarious job with a pimp in St. Francis park in one scene, and a prostitute in two others. The audio version is over ten hours long, but he (and of course, the talented author) made it fly by. <br />This is a very talented author who created characters I definitely want to spend more time with. Check it out-this series deserves a wider audience!	2002-11-16
US	51963567	R2HKOLIKYMIEEG	0743400372	661842082	These Our Actors (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	"Fool for Love" one of your favorite Buffy episodes?	Then grab this one up, fast. Spike fan? Grab this up faster. (though sorry, no Spuffy action in this one) Love any episode of Angel or Buffy where it goes into flashback of the time where Angel and Darla decide to 'make' some family? Grab this up.<br />The book (which I didn't want to pick up at first because of the weak title)spends at least half the time (maybe more, I confess after awhile I skimmed the present day story so I could get back to the 1800s) flashing back to when William met Cecily and got his heart stomped on. There's some of the scenes from 'Fool for Love', but it goes much further into the backstory-- you find out what happened to Spike after he rose, Angel and Dru teaching him how to hunt, his plan for revenge against Cecily and her family for humiliating him-- which works out much differently then he planned--... and oh yeah, *exactly* how he got his nickname.<br />The present day story, involving mainly Willow and a haunted theater (with Spike jumping in to help when he discovers an old enemy is tied in with this) is decent, and has its moments (such as Willow starting to think Spike is hot at one point, then catching herself when she remembers she's gay) but the book is worth buying for the Spike backstory. Angel is around, but only as evil Angelus. Well written, interesting, nasty, and true to the characters. I read 'Pretty Maids All in a Row' a while ago, thinking it was part of a series, and then was really bummed when I found out it was the only Buffy tie-in novel that focused mainly on them. This book is, at least, the next best thing.<br />So, worth picking up just for the backstory... which would make a great movie, by the way (Joss, are you listening?). You may want to save this one and wait to read it after the series is no more and brilliant back story episodes like Fool for Love are, sadly, just a memory. This one's a keeper.	2002-10-29
US	51963567	R1ENX0KSSMYM9K	1575668998	393635702	Girlfriends	Books	5	0	0	N	N	How could anyone not have fun with this novel?	Its hard to believe (and a little bit scary) that from reading the acknowledgments, Patrick Sanchez knocked on many agents doors before getting this published. Yes, if you read the plot description and look at the cover, it does look like   a typical book of women on the dating scene, but youll be pleasantly surprised.  I looked at it in the bookstore, read the author bio and saw how friendly, accessible, and happy he was to be published, and how hard he worked. That usually gets my attention (I definitely respect and admire such authors that appreciate their readers), so I flipped through, read a few random paragraphs, bit my lip to keep from laughing and making the clerk think I was a weirdo, and picked it up right away.  I was into it from the first page, and would have read it in one sitting if I hadnt had to take a break to drive somewhere.<br />The tagline compares the novel to Sex and the City, but as far as Im concerned, thats not  giving the book enough credit. Girlfriends is much more amusing, addictive, and has characters you can identify with. One has a dreary customer service job--oh boy, have some of us been there-- unlike characters in typical women-in-the-dating scene novels who seem to usually be making salaries in the mid-five figures, at the very least. The characters are hardly unoriginal, as the PW review says. Ive read hundreds of books in this genre (I guess if you have to pigeonhole it, its the mainstream, womens fiction, single women looking for and unlucky in love genre) and I dont think any of them were embarrassed at their class reunion when the man they introduce as their date is recognized by a classmate as her gay hairdresser. Theres also not a lot of genre books with sympathetic, bisexual, African American women with a sense of humor. Not a whole lot of stereotypes here.<br /> Its not all fun and games, but includes a couple of realistic, close-to-home things that happen to single women on the dating scene, even if theyre a little depressing; the central character cries after a one night stand, because shes so disgusted with herself for sleeping with a gross guy (who leaves his baseball cap on during sex, if you can believe that, which turns out to be a fun plot point later) she met in a singles bar the night before when drunk and desperate. But that's about as down as it gets; youll have a blast reading about Gina's dog Gomez, and what she does to a group of thugs who try to get between her and her beloved (if messy) doggie after shes had the day from hell. Youll have a blast reading about the jaw dropping practical joke she plays on a bisexual friend from high school, and the friend's revenge, and when the two of them get together for some SERIOUS revenge on a (bad word rhyming with 'tick') who has been begging for it for 200 pages...well, I don't wont to spoil it, but it's one of many  VERY satisfying payoff scenes in the novel.<br />Sanchez has worked hard on his craft and making the book as fun, readable, and enjoyable as possible for readers, and believe me, it shows on every page. As another reviewer said, you'll not only laugh at and with but identify with the characters. if you're looking for a fun, entertaining, satisfying novel that will let you escape and that you'll find yourself reading passages to your friends out loud from because they're so hilarious, RUN, don't walk to the shopping cart and pick up Girlfriends. You'll get your money's worth, and more; I plan to pay HC price, if I have to, for Sanchez' next book. I'm happy to see this novel got a second printing... the book, and the author (do check out his website, if you liked the book) definitely deserve it.re a little depressing; the central character cries after a one night stand, because shes so disgusted with herself for sleeping with a gross guy (who leaves his baseball cap on during sex, if you can believe that, which turns out to be a fun plot point later) she met in a singles bar the night before when drunk and desperate. But that's about as down as it gets; youll have a blast reading about Gina's dog Gomez, and what she does to a group of thugs who try to get between her and her beloved (if messy) doggie after shes had the day from hell. Youll have a blast reading about the jaw dropping practical joke she plays on a bisexual friend from high school, and the friend's revenge, and when the two of them get together for some SERIOUS revenge on a (bad word rhyming with 'tick') who has been begging for it for 200 pages...well, I don't wont to spoil it, but it's one of many  VERY satisfying payoff scenes in the novel.<br />Sanchez has worked hard on his craft and making the book as fun, readable, and enjoyable as possible for readers, and believe me, it shows on every page. As another reviewer said, you'll not only laugh at and with but identify with the characters. if you're looking for a fun, entertaining, satisfying novel that will let you escape and that you'll find yourself reading passages to your friends out loud from because they're so hilarious, RUN, don't walk to the shopping cart and pick up Girlfriends. You'll get your money's worth, and more; I plan to pay HC price, if I have to, for Sanchez' next book. I'm happy to see this novel got a second printing... the book, and the author (do check out his website, if you liked the book) definitely deserve it.	2002-09-22
US	51963567	R2DASPXS8XN58Q	084394966X	914910401	This Symbiotic Fascination	Books	4	5	6	N	N	This book messed with my mind.	That would be my one-sentence review, if I only had one sentence to sum it up. This book will probably mess with your mind, too.<br />I actually probably wouldn't have picked this up if I hadn't gotten it from my book club- the title didn't do much for me. and neither did the cover art. I saw that Delirium Books made a comments about Charlee Jacob being the new hardcore queen of horror, I also flipped through and admired the prose, so I decided to give it a shot.<br />Straight up-do NOT eat while you're reading this book. I'm not saying that lightly, or to try to be funny. The fact that Delirium (home of the annual Gross Out Contest for horror stories) made a comment should have clued me in. If I had to describe the book it a few words, I'd say it was disturbing, original, well written, and stomach churning. I was not prepared for this book. It was the literary equivalent of being kicked down a flight of stairs, finally landing on the cement, then having someone drop an anvil on me just as I was starting to get to my feet. Several anvils. The Breeze Horror is the other other book written by a woman that had a similar impact on me (Exquisite Corpse, by Poppy Z. Brite, would be the runner-up); it was so merciless, revolting and depressing that I had to put it down a few times because it got to be too much-- but I couldn't put it down for long, even though I knew what I was getting into every time I picked it up again, because I cared what happened next and needed to know.<br />The story involves a lonely, unattractive woman in her thirties, Tawne, looking for anything to make her feel alive- especially wanting men to just once look at her and find her appealing. A serial killer--or a monster masquerading as one-- is terrorizing and mutilating women in the city she lives in. Meanwhile, a man named Arcan --or maybe not a man at all--who is responsible for doing the same is trying to hold himself together long enough to... to...uh...OK, I give up, just read the back cover for the plot description, I can't do it. It would take up too much room, anyway.<br />I'm not sure if I was supposed to care for the main male character, but I stopped once I realized how completely he hated women- just not a lot of sympathy, but not hatred, since the guy is so utterly wretched and haunted. The other male characters range from sleazeballs to literal monsters. There was maybe one male character who wasn't a complete bastard, but he wasn't around long. There are some very strong female characters, especially those who survived Arcan's vicious, nasty, brutal attacks (what he does to these women make the ugliest scenes in American Psycho seem tame). They were the ones I really ended up caring about- they've pulled themselves together enough to form a support group, and finally fight back. In one of the few scenes that wasn't completely depressing, a gang of scummy sexual predators makes the mistake of harassing them, and get the living *&^% beat out of them (\\"Hey, we're goin' already! Jesus, don't kill us, okay?\\" one of them begs by the end).<br />TSF isn't perfect; characters take time to be introduced to only to vanish later, and at least one seems to come out of nowhere; I was flipping back to see if I'd missed anything. A couple plot threads don't go anywhere, but they were still fascinatingly well written. Sometimes the narrative kind of goes all over the place; maybe that's the effect the author wanted, however. Though the book is unrelentingly graphic, enough is still left to your imagination or unexplained to give you chills.<br />This book is thoroughly original and unique. You won't forget some of the images in TSF for a long, long time. I actually had to SKIP certain passages because I was so horrified and/or revolted, and I never went back and read them, which only happens with me for about 1% of the books I read. If I ever meet anyone who says truthfully that nothing in the book made them cringe (I don't think such a reader exists, at least I hope not) I will run as far away from them as fast as possible. If you're tired of the same old themes, and want to read something different and haunting -and if you have a very strong stomach- definitely give this book a shot. It deserves it.<br />Just don't say I didn't warn you when it gives you nightmares.ast I hope not) I will run as far away from them as fast as possible. If you're tired of the same old themes, and want to read something different and haunting -and if you have a very strong stomach- definitely give this book a shot. It deserves it. <br />Just don't say I didn't warn you when it gives you nightmares.	2002-09-13
US	51963567	R1GCTCYEHPSGOX	1930997124	653853798	A Flock of Crows Is Called a Murder	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Fun, sick debut that I didn't want to end	Why are most of the best horror titles out of print, [darnit]? Well, knowing the publishing world, I guess I shouldn't be surprised, but it still makes me mad. Anyway, this title deserves a wider audience. This is a fun, sick little debut... although 'little' isn't quite a fair description; though the novel clocks in at 249 pages or so, it's a large trade PB with a nice high word count on each page. I didn't know much going into reading this book other than the fact that 1. it was supposed to be disgusting and 2. it involved real estate and crows in some manner. Part of the fun was not knowing much, because I had no idea where things were going (except that people were probably going to die) and was constantly surprised. Even if I knew more about the plot, I doubt I could have second-guessed the author.<br /> A land developer decides to develop some land in the small town of Selden Falls. As the book opens, he's taking a look around his prospective project-- he plans a plaza with a food court-- and sees a creepy, ugly, vaguely obscene old church in plain sight of where the plaza will be built. He decides it's an eyesore and that it should be destroyed, fast. The town has a city council meeting, and though an amateur psychic senses that destroying the church without a proper ritual could unleash a huge, possibly dangerous spiritual backlash, the town needs the money and votes to raze the old building. Big mistake, big BIG mistake. Slowly, a disgusting and very contagious infection begins to spread (warning: do not read while eating, unless you have a very strong stomach or want to diet).<br /> The book has a fairly large cast of characters--the greedy land developer with some very ugly vices and his much more likable assistant, Nelson, the lazy local cop, Jasper and his delinquent son, the owner of the construction company working on the project and his wife (with a mother-in-law reminiscent of 'Mum' in Peter Jackson's Dead Alive), a disgruntled ex-employee of the land developer, and a very large number of malignant crows. I had no idea who would turn out to be the hero/s, who would turn out to be evil, and who would die, but I tried to guess. I was surprised at every turn- as I said, this author is almost impossible to second guess. I'd warn you not to get too attached to any of the characters, but they're so well written, it's hard not to get attached. However, some characters that you care about will not make it (I found myself cursing out loud while reading the novel at least twice in disappointment when I realized a certain person was not going to survive). I'd tell you who fights the evil and who becomes part of it, but of course, plenty of fun lies in the fact that you'll be surprised at every turn. I would think, \\"Oh! Well, that's the end of *that* character\\", only to have them show up again in some hideous way... or be relieved that they were spared a little longer.<br /> This author can definitely write. I was reminded most strongly of the humor and style of Edward Lee. Though not *quite* as revolting, I was similarly caught up in the action enough to make me read the second half of the book straight through (my copy has water damage from reading it in the bathtub, for Godssake) and also found myself smiling (though the humor is dark- but that's never been a problem for most horror fans) as many times as my jaw dropped. Without giving too much away, get ready for the ending to jump out and slap you in the face (similar to the style of Jack Ketchum and Ray Garton). I have no complaints- the book is a little slow to get going, but trust me, it's worth it, and it's well written enough so you enjoy the whole ride. If you're looking for a fun, sick read with several satisfying payoffs, this book-- and this author-- are definitely worth discovering. I'll be keeping an eye out for his next one.and developer, and a very large number of malignant crows. I had no idea who would turn out to be the hero/s, who would turn out to be evil, and who would die, but I tried to guess. I was surprised at every turn- as I said, this author is almost impossible to second guess. I'd warn you not to get too attached to any of the characters, but they're so well written, it's hard not to get attached. However, some characters that you care about will not make it (I found myself cursing out loud while reading the novel at least twice in disappointment when I realized a certain person was not going to survive). I'd tell you who fights the evil and who becomes part of it, but of course, plenty of fun lies in the fact that you'll be surprised at every turn. I would think, \\"Oh! Well, that's the end of *that* character\\", only to have them show up again in some hideous way... or be relieved that they were spared a little longer.<br /> This author can definitely write. I was reminded most strongly of the humor and style of Edward Lee. Though not *quite* as revolting, I was similarly caught up in the action enough to make me read the second half of the book straight through (my copy has water damage from reading it in the bathtub, for Godssake) and also found myself smiling (though the humor is dark- but that's never been a problem for most horror fans) as many times as my jaw dropped. Without giving too much away, get ready for the ending to jump out and slap you in the face (similar to the style of Jack Ketchum and Ray Garton). I have no complaints- the book is a little slow to get going, but trust me, it's worth it, and it's well written enough so you enjoy the whole ride. If you're looking for a fun, sick read with several satisfying payoffs, this book-- and this author-- are definitely worth discovering. I'll be keeping an eye out for his next one.	2002-09-13
US	51963567	RE8DK2GOF2I64	0671001167	206100439	Dead Man's Walk (Lonesome Dove)	Books	5	57	61	N	Y	Grim Prarie Tale	This book in the Lonsesome Dove series in the first, in chronological order. Gus and Call, called 'young pups' by their elders, have joined the Texas Rangers, hoping for some adventure (and for Gus, a little brothel action and card playing). Soon after their expedition begins, they discover they are in way over their heads. The Commanches are, literally, on the warpath, and hate white people (with good reason, considering the way the white men treated them). They are also very smart, very fast, very skilled in riding and fighting, and VERY bloodthirsty. The main Chief, who even the most hardened soldiers are scared of, is Buffalo Hump, and he is introduced in an unforgettable lightning storm on the prarie, in one of the most vivid, terrifying scenes in the entire series (and if you've read the series, you know things can get VERY ugly). The men in charge of the expedition are either crazy, stupid, drunk, have a very short fuse, or all of the above.  The trek starts out rather confident, looking forward to the challenges to come, but soon realize they are no match for the Indians. The Commanches set up a variety of clever, deadly, devastating traps, and soon their ranks are halved, then quartered, then...then it gets REALLY ugly.<br />This book was a page-turner, and had all the entertaining characters a reader comes to expect from the series. All of the books treat death as an everyday thing, but I think this is one of the most cold-blooded; do not read if you're sqeamish. There's not just one or two nasty scenes, either, they count many and come fast. This is an entertaining book, one that I couldn't put down, but not especially pleasant. A good read, don't get me wrong, but one that is emotionally gruelling.<br />I guess if you wanted to read the books in chronological order, this would be the one to start. I had planned to do that originally, after I read LD, but have found reading them in the order they were written is actually more satisfying; backstory is filled in, and you get a better perspective.<br />If you loved LD, read this and the other books in the series. If you're just starting out, read LD first; it may be the strongest, but it will give you an idea of just what a treat you're in for. No ccomplaints here-I put the bok down after reading the last page, and promptly walked right over to my  new copy of Commanche Moon (I wisely bought them at the same time) and started in.<br />This author was born to write.ed in, and you get a better perspective.<br />If you loved LD, read this and the other books in the series. If you're just starting out, read LD first; it may be the strongest, but it will give you an idea of just what a treat you're in for. No ccomplaints here-I put the bok down after reading the last page, and promptly walked right over to my  new copy of Commanche Moon (I wisely bought them at the same time) and started in.<br />This author was born to write.	2002-03-24
US	51963567	R2U7KYW7XZDJ6L	067168390X	34918879	Lonesome Dove	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	If you only read one Western novel in your life...	...then you should be branching out a little more. No, seriously, I agree with one of the blurbs on the cover: \\"If you only read one Western in your life, read Lonesome Dove\\".<br />I picked up this book on recommendations from a couple of my favorite horror authors; it sat in my 'to read' stack for 6 months because I was intimidated by the length. Little did I know that by the time I got to the last 50 pages, I would start to get really depressed, knowing that this book would end soon and I wouldn't be able to sit there, turning pages in a trance, laughing at something, shaking my head in amazement, or getting choked up. I was actually in tears when the book ended-and not as much from the several heart-breakingly sad events in the book, but from the fact that there was no more left to read.  Yeah, that sounds really pathetic of me, but wait till you read the last paragraph. You'll see.<br />The plot is fairly simple, and a less talented author would have caused me to toss the book in boredom several chapters in. It is an adventure novel, though the plot basically consists of a group of ex-Texas Rangers, an ex-whore, and various cowhands of all ages driving a herd across the country into Montana. It does start out slow, but the prose was so incredible, and the characters so interesting and likeable (or unlikable) that I didn't really mind the slow-ish pacing. Halfway through, I actually began to appreciate the pacing, because I didn't want the novel to end. There's a *huge* list of characters, and many sub-plots. None of them bored me.<br /> I was warned that some really hideous stuff happens to various characters, and you learn early on not to get too attached to any of them, but at least one death left me shocked and actually thinking I'd misunderstood, or that the character was not really dead. Nope. Life is cheap in this novel, and death can come easily; remember, medicine wasn't exactly cutting edge back then, so if you got sick or injured, you didn't go to a hospital, you just died. Some characters, however,  got lucky and lived when I was positive that was it for them, so I was kept in suspense. The matter-of-fact way the characters treat illness and death is both believable and very chilling. Absolutely nothing is glamourized;  I found myself very frequently thanking God I didn't live in the old West.  The genius of McMurty's writing, however, had me simaltaneously feeling sort of wistful about how simple life must have been back then.<br />I can't really do justice to this book,  so I just recommend that you read it yourself. Before the text begins , a quote is given: \\"What they dreamed, we live, and what we dream, they lived.\\" (or something close to that). That sums up the book better than any review I could write.spital, you just died. Some characters, however,  got lucky and lived when I was positive that was it for them, so I was kept in suspense. The matter-of-fact way the characters treat illness and death is both believable and very chilling. Absolutely nothing is glamourized;  I found myself very frequently thanking God I didn't live in the old West.  The genius of McMurty's writing, however, had me simaltaneously feeling sort of wistful about how simple life must have been back then.<br />I can't really do justice to this book,  so I just recommend that you read it yourself. Before the text begins , a quote is given: \\"What they dreamed, we live, and what we dream, they lived.\\" (or something close to that). That sums up the book better than any review I could write.	2002-03-17
US	51963567	R1XYEKYBATWN4E	084394966X	914910401	This Symbiotic Fascination	Books	4	4	7	N	N	This book messed with my mind.	That would be my one-sentence review, if I only had one sentence to sum it up. This book will probably mess with your mind, too.<br />I actually probably wouldn't have picked this up if I hadn't gotten it from my book club- the title didn't do much for me. and neither did the cover art. I saw that Delirium Books made a comments about Charlee Jacob being the new hardcore queen of horror, I also flipped through and admired the prose, so I decided to give it a shot.<br />Straight up-do NOT eat while you're reading this book. I'm not saying that lightly, or to try to be funny. The fact that Delirium (home of the annual Gross Out Contest for horror stories) made a comment should have clued me in. If I had to describe the book it a few words, I'd say it was disturbing, original, well written, and stomach churning. I was not prepared for this book. It was the literary equivalent of being kicked down a flight of stairs, finally landing on the cement, then having someone drop an anvil on me just as I was starting to get to my feet. Several anvils. The Breeze Horror is the other other book written by a woman that had a similar impact on me (Exquisite Corpse, by Poppy Z. Brite, would be the runner-up); it was so merciless, revolting and depressing that I had to put it down a few times because it got to be too much-- but I couldn't put it down for long, even though I knew what I was getting into every time I picked it up again, because I cared what happened next and needed to know.<br />The story involves a lonely, unattractive woman in her thirties, Tawne, looking for anything to make her feel alive- especially wanting men to just once look at her and find her appealing. A serial killer--or a monster masquerading as one-- is terrorizing and mutilating women in the city she lives in. Meanwhile, a man named Arcan --or maybe not a man at all--who is responsible for doing the same is trying to hold himself together long enough to... to...uh...OK, I give up, just read the back cover for the plot description, I can't do it. It would take up too much room, anyway.<br />I'm not sure if I was supposed to care for the main male character,  but I stopped once I realized how completely he hated women- just not a lot of sympathy, but not hatred, since the guy is so utterly wretched and haunted. The other male characters range from sleazeballs to literal monsters. There was maybe one male character who wasn't a complete bastard, but he wasn't around long. There are some very strong female characters, especially those who survived Arcan's vicious, nasty, brutal attacks (what he does to these women make the ugliest scenes in American Psycho seem tame). They were the ones I really ended up caring about- they've pulled themselves together enough to form a support group, and finally fight back. In one of the few scenes that wasn't completely depressing, a gang of scummy sexual predators makes the mistake of harassing them, and get the living *&^% beat out of them (\\"Hey, we're goin' already! Jesus, don't kill us, okay?\\" one of them begs by the end).<br />TSF isn't perfect; characters take time to be introduced to only to vanish later, and at least one seems to come out of nowhere; I was flipping back to see if I'd missed anything. A couple plot threads don't go anywhere, but they were still fascinatingly well written. Sometimes the narrative kind of goes all over the place; maybe that's the effect the author wanted, however. Though the book is unrelentingly graphic, enough is still left to your imagination or unexplained to give you chills. <br />This book is thoroughly original and unique. You won't forget some of the images in TSF for a long, long time.  I actually had to SKIP certain passages because I was so horrified and/or revolted, and I never went back and read them, which only happens with me for about 1% of the books I read.  If I ever meet anyone who says truthfully that nothing in the book made them cringe (I don't think such a reader exists, atleast I hope not) I will run as far away from them as fast as possible. If you're tired of the same old themes, and want to read something different and haunting -and if you have a very strong stomach- definitely give this book a shot. It deserves it. <br />Just don't say I didn't warn you when it gives you nightmares.	2002-02-22
US	51963567	R2DP5LCYH3YSID	1931081441	395488756	Sex and Violence in Hollywood	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Most fun I've had with a book all year	Let me get two quick recommendations out ot the way: first, the Publisher's Weekly review above is accurate, but the second half contains some spoilers; if I read it, then read the book, I would probably be angry over at least one twist ruined. Second, I would advise you to not begin reading this book right before you have something important scheduled, such as performing surgery, or need to get anything constructive done, because you will NOT be able to put it down once you've started. I had planned to sort of dole it out to myself a little at a time, but by 20 pages in, I thought &quot;(bad word rhyming with 'duck') everything else, it can wait till I finish this book&quot;. Took me about 3 days to catch up with everything I blew off reading this book, but man, was it worth it.<br />I've been reading Garton for over 10 years now; about 7 years ago I got to the point where I would simply pick up anything with his name and purchase it without even bothering to check the price or flip through it (there's a dozen or so authors in this category for me, which may explain my high credit card debt) After Shackled and Biofire blew me away, I didn't think Garton could top himself, but he does it here.<br />The plot-- which can get convoluted when I try to sum it up, but it works in the book-- centers on Adam, the son of a vulgar, successful producer/screenwriter Michael (the guy dubbed his yacht the Money Shot, so that should give you an idea). Adam's a cool kid, horror movie lover, embarrassed (to say the very least) by his obnoxious father, who keeps trying to get him into The Biz somehow. Adam writes, but sticks to poetry while Michael--who may or may not have killed Adam's mother-- is constantly pushing him into screenwriting. He lives with his father and stepmother Gwen ..who he also happens to be sleeping with. Then Gwen's daughter Rain comes to live with them; she's an unhinged, wild, thrill seeking skank barely into her teens, who wants to sleep with Adam. Throw her into the mix, and things *really* start getting wild and complicated from there. Calling the plot and the novel 'wild' is a ludicrous understatement, trust me. I don't want to say more about the plot and spoil the fun.<br />One of the things that I enjoy about Garton's writing is almost never being able to second-guess what happens next, and this book...well, I think the book holds the record for the amount of times I've laughed out loud in shock at some sick and/or vulgar line or action, or just muttered, &quot;Jesus!&quot; at how shocking or balls-y some development or dialogue was. Whether the book is describing a wild, dangerous party in Compton or some especially nasty new evidence coming up in Adam's trial, I had so much fun that I was just disappointed when I realized only a certain number of pages were in the book, and it was going to end. My favorite scenes were most of the first half, with Adam, his best friend, and all the sleazes they encounter along the way. I admit, when I realized a lengthy portion of the novel would be spent on the trial (and preparation for it) I winced- but Garton still made it surprising and a hell of a lot of fun to read. I especially liked the questioning of Adam's 8th grade English teacher... you'll know it when you get to it.<br />Which leads me to the usual disclaimers when I review Garton and others-- if you're easily offended, you'll last maybe 2 pages, tops. The book lives up to the title; a little more sex than violence, maybe, but it gets pretty extreme (so, I loved it). If you view Hollywood as a warm, glamourous magical place and don't want to be disillusioned (or snapped out of your delusion) you may want to skip it. If you are a Garton fan, and you haven't picked this up yet, do it fast; it may be a hardcover but trust me, you'll get more than your money's worth (cool cover and presentation, too). Fans of Jackie Collins would probably enjoy it, just be ready to have the sleaze and fun factor amped up about 70 timesmore than hers. If you want a fun, thrilling, shocking, funny read, pick it up. If you haven't read Garton before, this may be a good book to start on, Sex &amp; Violence in Hollywood (the title alone sold me) is more of a 'mainstream' thriller than his straight horror fiction- he's got a great eye for visuals, writes some of the best and most realistic dialogue, and bottom line, is simply an excellent storyteller. You won't be let down.es more than hers. If you want a fun, thrilling, shocking, funny read, pick it up. If you haven't read Garton before, this may be a good book to start on, Sex &amp; Violence in Hollywood (the title alone sold me) is more of a 'mainstream' thriller than his straight horror fiction- he's got a great eye for visuals, writes some of the best and most realistic dialogue, and bottom line, is simply an excellent storyteller. You won't be let down.	2001-11-15
US	51963567	R8U73V25V9I7B	0768322324	391095792	Swingin' Chicks of the 60's	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Where has this book been all my life?	I remember looking at the author's Swingin' Chicks of the 60's web site in '98, and thinking, Man, this would make a great book, if it was handled right. This book has not only been handled right, it's been handled superbly.<br />The packaging and design of this book, a little over 200 pages, is perfect (hey, it's got Ann-Margret on the cover, so to me at least, it's perfect)- colorful, with those groovy 60's flowers all inside and out. It's also a great price for a paperback of coffee-table book quality. I may sound like a pimp saying that, but take a look at what other books of the same quality and size cost and you'll appreciate it.<br />Each chick has such a nice section devoted to them that if you're only really into, say, Barbara Eden and Julie Newmar, it's worth picking up just for that... and you'll probably find yourself reading the rest of the book anyway, discovering chicks you never knew about, or chicks you had only seen before but never found out their name. You liked that chick in the Elvis Movie Spinout , the tomboy drummer who fell for him? Here's everything you ever wanted to know about Deborah Walley (filed under &quot;the beach girls&quot; section of the book).<br />Nearly all of them get a two page spread.<br />Each swingin' chick's section includes photos (some of the chicks actually loaned the author personal photos from their collection) most in color, Her Swingin' 60's Credentials (briefly explaining why they've been included in the book), Workin' It, (describing their career) behind the scenes (their personal life) and important dates in the 60's for each chick. It also includes my favorite to read, Her 60's Look, describing their personal style. Most of them have bonus swingability sections including their real name (they get extra points for changing their name) and little known facts (Raquel Welch supposedly almost became a Bond Girl and signed for Thunderball, but bowed out). If you're really a fan of the chick, you might know most of them, but I consider myself pretty well informed about Sophia Loren, and never knew until I read the book that she was originally going to play the love interest in North by Northwest instead of Eva Marie Saint. If the chick has a web site, the URL is included-- you'd be surprised how many of them have official web sites and not just fan or tribute sites.<br />The 60's chicks are diced up into categories, by the way, so the book has sections for The Beach Girls, The Bond Beauties, The Elvis Girls! Girls! Girls!, The Look, The Movie Stars (a section for the all-americans such as Stella Stevens and another section for the British invasion)The TV Stars, and way more than I have the energy to type out. It's obvious that a lot of care went into this book; not only does the author genuinely care about each chick, and discuss them with the respect they deserve that is sorely lacking from many similar books, but it's incredibly well researched and documented. In most articles or features about Ann-Margret, I usually find a mistake. Here, I discover Ann-Margret and longtime husband Roger Smith's first date was to see Ike and Tina Turner show (talk about a date you wish you had double dated on). Though I thought I'd read most of the biographies and books about the area, there's a selected bibliography that included books I never knew existed that I'm gonna be running to the library with a list of.<br />Into Angie Dickinson? There's a great foreword where she answers 20 questions, and thank God, the author asked all the right ones (what was the best party she attended in the 60's, for instance) The interview, and the book itself, just make me feel everything I do when I immerse myself in that time: how incredibly cool everyone looked, how great the music was, how fun and entertaining the movies were, and the little bit of sadness I get knowing that the decade is over, and there'll never be another one like it, including the wake-up jolt that these women don't look like this anymore (though some of them, like Julie Newmar and Barbara Eden, come pretty damn close) and are in their late 50's or older. Angie Dickinson says she has a favorite 60's pink crocheted mini dress, which doesn't fit anymore but she loves to look at it.<br />The only omissions I can think of are Yvonne DiCarlo (Lily Munster) though it wouldn't surprise me if she's in there and I just spaced out and missed it, and Candy Johnson (main go-go girl from most of the beach party movies-- if you've seen her, you won't forget her), which I can't fault the author for because trust me, I've dug and dug and spent hours on the net trying to find info for and coming up with absolutely zip other than her filmography. I got all excited when the IMDB had some brief info on her, only to find out they had her mixed up with another actress of the same name.<br />Maybe one of the best compliments I can give this books is that, if someone asked me, 'so why are you so into the 60's?' I could hand them this book and all they'd have to do is flip through it briefly before saying, 'Oh. Okay.&quot; If you're at all into 60's pop culture, even mildly interested, this book is worth picking up. If you're really into 60's pop culture, you probably already have it. If you don't (shame!) go to your favorite online bookstore right now, and pick up a copy fast. You'll be blown away.<br /> Groovy.re (though some of them, like Julie Newmar and Barbara Eden, come pretty damn close) and are in their late 50's or older. Angie Dickinson says she has a favorite 60's pink crocheted mini dress, which doesn't fit anymore but she loves to look at it. <br />The only omissions I can think of are Yvonne DiCarlo (Lily Munster) though it wouldn't surprise me if she's in there and I just spaced out and missed it, and Candy Johnson (main go-go girl from most of the beach party movies-- if you've seen her, you won't forget her), which I can't fault the author for because trust me, I've dug and dug and spent hours on the net trying to find info for and coming up with absolutely zip other than her filmography. I got all excited when the IMDB had some brief info on her, only to find out they had her mixed up with another actress of the same name.<br />Maybe one of the best compliments I can give this books is that, if someone asked me, 'so why are you so into the 60's?' I could hand them this book and all they'd have to do is flip through it briefly before saying, 'Oh. Okay.&quot; If you're at all into 60's pop culture, even mildly interested, this book is worth picking up. If you're really into 60's pop culture, you probably already have it. If you don't (shame!) go to your favorite online bookstore right now, and pick up a copy fast. You'll be blown away.<br /> Groovy.	2001-09-11
US	51963567	R3NUU89WZDKM7A	0553298917	548685293	Shackled	Books	5	13	14	N	N	I'd give it 10 stars if I could	I'm a Ray Garton fan from way back, and pick up just about anything with his name on it. I was browsing through the bookstore a few years ago, where the new PBs were, and BAM! I saw this. At firstI thought it was too good to be true-the cool cover, the title-probably a reprint I thought. Nope. I almost dropped the book on he floor and tripped on it in my haste to get to the cashier.<br />I knew this book would be good, since it was Garton, but it exceeded my expectations, and they were high. The books opens with a great scene-a young teenage runaway is in a bus terminal. A very kindly looking older woman talks to her gently, finds out she's run away from home because of abuse, and finally offers her a ride and a place to stay. When she gets in the car with the woman and her husband, she notices something's wrong...there's an upside-down crucifix hanging from the rearview mirror. Not exactly what you want to see when you're getting in a strange car.<br />The plot concerns a group of Satanists (who of course are the ones trolling for runaways) and the main character's involvement with them. One of them has been entangled with them years before; not only was he lucky to escape with his life, but he became an alcoholic he wasso traumatized by what he found out. He's on the wagon now, but when the group and him threaten to cross paths again, you wonder if he's going to start drinking again...you'll have to read it to find out the rest of the gripping plot.<br />I could NOT put this book down; I think I read it all in one greedy sitting, and this isn't a skimpy book, either. There is also some seriously hardcore horror here, folks. Garton has always impressed me with his ability to shock, but several times during my reading, my jaw dropped open in amazement and disbeleif that some of the scenes made it past a mainstream publisher.<br />This, of course, is not a complaint-I'm not easy to shock, so when an author is skilled enough to do it, I'm pretty impressed. Sadly, I misplaced my copy ... and therefore only got to read it once...but there's nightmarish scenes and images I can remember  now as if I had read the book hours ago.<br />If you like horror, you need to discover Ray Garton, and this is a great book to start with. If you're a Garton fan, but never found this title, I can assure you that it is worth tracking down. Probably one of my all-time favorites by him or any other horror author.splaced my copy ... and therefore only got to read it once...but there's nightmarish scenes and images I can remember  now as if I had read the book hours ago.<br />If you like horror, you need to discover Ray Garton, and this is a great book to start with. If you're a Garton fan, but never found this title, I can assure you that it is worth tracking down. Probably one of my all-time favorites by him or any other horror author.	2001-07-21
US	51963567	R34K5IRINSN1Y5	0140266909	326584985	Please Kill Me: The Uncensored Oral History of Punk	Books	5	115	120	N	N	Blitzkrieg Book	This is one of those books that I loved so much it's actually kind of hard for me to put into words and write a review for. My husband had it on order... months before it came out, and after he brought it home, we practically fought over who got to read it first. We eventually had to work something out where we took turns and read it in shifts. Either that or one of us would sneak out and read it when the other fell asleep. If you like punk rock, it's hard to put down.<br />I love \\"oral history\\" style books, and this is one of the best I've ever read. At first I planned just to read everything about The Ramones (which was a lot)and not the rest. But I had so much fun reading everything else I just read it straight through. I wasn't around for the New York punk scene in the mid-late 70's, but this book gives you such a vivid idea of what it was like that I felt like I was there. I'm partial to any of the Ramones-related sections, but Dee Dee Ramone's voice really stood out. He tells enough in PKM that it could almost fill another book. He's definitely just as good of a storyteller as he is a song writer, has a good sense of humor, and his prose was definitely different. He talks about meeting his girlfriend from hell, Connie (I never thought I'd get to see a picture of the woman who inspired the Ramones song \\"Glad to See You Go\\"): \\"She was a hooker, I was a Ramone, and we were both junkies.\\"<br />If you want gossip and dirt about the NY scene, there's plenty of good stuff. Who slept with who, who wanted to sleep with who, who back-stabbed who (sometimes literally), who didn't get along, who did what drug and how much, and much more. Even if you thought you'd read everything there was about the NY scene, or your favorite band from that time, there's stories you never heard before. This back doesn't try to glamorize anything, in fact the scene was sleazier than I thought (I remember wondering about halfway through if there was anyone that WASN'T doing heroin or sleeping with everybody else at some point). You still, however, get an idea of how fun it must have been. I went back and forth between being glad I was reading about it instead of being there and wishing that I really had been there. It really covers just about everything, and continues on to the present day. The last 1/5 or so of the book has many of the people involved in the scene getting ill and/or dying (mostly caused directly or indirectly from drugs) so it does get pretty sad and even depressing, but that's what happened, and they don't try to gloss it over. I'm just glad the book came out before Joey Ramone passed away or even got sick, because there's enough heart-breaking stuff in there as it is.<br />I actually prefer the first edition. True, there are some stories in the updated edition that are pretty funny, in particular one someone told about running into Sid Vicious and saying they had to go pick up their vacuum cleaner, and Sid assuming \\"vacuum cleaner\\" was some kind of drug lingo and wanting to come along. It does end on a positive note with a mostly re-united MC-5. However, I thought that the ending to the first edition was stronger. The original ending, with Jerry Nolan in the hospital remembering seeing Elvis as a kid, was so vivid and haunting that it actually choked me up, and still does a little every time I read it. I wasn't expecting such a poignant ending, and it really caught me off guard. Since the last part of the book has so many deaths in it, I guess I shouldn't have been surprised, but I was. Anyway, in my opinion, ending the book the way it was the first time was much more effective.<br />I'd recommend this book to anyone who likes a good music-related oral history, or to anyone whose favorite bands were the early punk scene. I'd also recommend it for kids not even born when most of the book happened that think punk rock was started by Green Day (or the Sex Pistols). Recently, I heard someone at work complaining that they heard an interview where Joey Ramone had the nerve to say that the Ramones helped start punk rock. I shut them up with 5 words: \\"Name one punk band before 1975\\". I think those were also the last 5 words I ever spoke to that guy, but it just goes to show how this book should be required reading for people who have misconceptions about how punk really began. Anyone interested in music history from the 1970's on would probably also enjoy the book. I guess the only people I wouldn't recommend it to are those who have an idealized picture of that time and place (like I did before I read it) and don't want it shattered because they would rather leave things to their imagination.<br />However, a review --or my review, at least--just can't do this book justice. Whether you're reading about Dee Dee Ramone turning tricks for dope money (along with doing heroin, another common activity most people seemed to share back was sleeping with Dee Dee Ramone) and later getting stabbed in the butt by his jealous girlfriend, or finding out which bathroom at CBGBs had the best graffiti, or Legs McNeil painting such a vivid portrait of what the neighborhood outside the 'office' for Punk Magazine looked like that you can almost smell it, you'll definitely be entertained. The book is also worth a few re-reads, because there's so much interesting stuff and it's so smoothly and brilliantly put together. This is one amazing book, and I doubt that a more definitive or passionate book about the punk scene in NYC will ever be written. I don't see how it could get any better.iew where Joey Ramone had the nerve to say that the Ramones helped start punk rock. I shut them up with 5 words: \\"Name one punk band before 1975\\". I think those were also the last 5 words I ever spoke to that guy, but it just goes to show how this book should be required reading for people who have misconceptions about how punk really began. Anyone interested in music history from the 1970's on would probably also enjoy the book. I guess the only people I wouldn't recommend it to are those who have an idealized picture of that time and place (like I did before I read it) and don't want it shattered because they would rather leave things to their imagination.<br />However, a review --or my review, at least--just can't do this book justice. Whether you're reading about Dee Dee Ramone turning tricks for dope money (along with doing heroin, another common activity most people seemed to share back was sleeping with Dee Dee Ramone) and later getting stabbed in the butt by his jealous girlfriend, or finding out which bathroom at CBGBs had the best graffiti, or Legs McNeil painting such a vivid portrait of what the neighborhood outside the 'office' for Punk Magazine looked like that you can almost smell it, you'll definitely be entertained. The book is also worth a few re-reads, because there's so much interesting stuff and it's so smoothly and brilliantly put together. This is one amazing book, and I doubt that a more definitive or passionate book about the punk scene in NYC will ever be written. I don't see how it could get any better.	2001-05-17
US	51963567	R1CDNOPKRBCBU	0843948760	13657707	The Lost	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Ketchum's best and most haunting since &quot;The Girl Next Door&quot;	First of all, I have to say that I really hope the Leisure Horror line stays around for a while. I can't afford those limited edition hardcovers by some of my favorite authors such as Ketchum anymore, so I love this low-priced alternative. The line has already probably saved me hundreds of dollars. From the posting boards, it looks like plenty of others feel the same way.<br />I could not put this book down. This is the first Jack Ketchum book in a long time that had me turning pages so fast. I was hooked right from the prologue, which takes place in 1965. Ray, a young womanizing sociopath, and his two friends, Jennifer and Tim, are at a campground where they run across two pretty young women, best friends, who are taking a getaway to get their mind off their love lives. Unfortunately, Ray gets infuriated when he spies one of them giving the other an innocent good night kiss. He decides on the spur of the moment to do something really horrible, and his two friends, who don't approve of what he's done but don't know what else to do, are sucked in.<br />The rest of the book takes place 4 years later. There's several new characters added to the mix; a cop and an ex-cop who worked the original case, and a lost cat the narrative follows on and off. There's also two young women who unfortunately cross paths with Ray- Sally, an intelligent 18 year old who is involved romantically with one of the cops, and Katherine, described as a stunningly beautiful teenager who is also intelligent, but rich and selfish. Ray starts out wanting to date both of them...and since this is a Ketchum novel, you know things are only going to get worse, and probably at least one person is going to come to a terrible end. And it might not be the character or characters that deserve it. Especially with a title like The Lost- I never expect a JK book to have an upbeat ending, and I got the feeling early on this would be one of his more disturbing and poignant ones. I was right.<br />Probably nothing by Ketchum (or any other author, for that matter) will ever affect me like The Girl Next Door, or hit me as hard, but this came the closest of any book he has written since that came out over 10 years ago. It's kind of similar- it takes place decades in the past, during what many would first think of as a more innocent time. It's not supernatural, and sounds like it could be based on a true-life crime. If not, you could see it happening, and believe every word. Unfortunately as in life, very sad things happen, sometimes to characters you really care about. I had a vague idea of how the book might end, but I still couldn't stop reading and though this is one of his longer novels, finished it in less than 24 hours. The book didn't end like I thought it would- in fact, plenty of unexpected turns were taken right before the ending. I loved the format of the book- chapter headings are the character's names that the chapter follows, which made them seem even more personal. I admire JK for never taking the cheap shot (a character that I was positive that he'd kill off just to upset the reader, because it would be so simple, made it through to my surprise) or the easy way out.  The book takes place with a sort of stream-of-consciousness, real-time prose in parts that reminded me strongly of the late Richard Laymon (I miss him already). In fact, if I'd heard JK wrote The Lost with an unknown collaborator, Laymon would leap to mind as the first choice. This is one of those rare books where I wanted to get to the end desperately because it was so suspenseful, but at the same time, actually felt myself getting sad when I'd realize how few pages I had left to go, because I didn't want it to be over.<br />This isn't for everybody. Anyone who has lost a friend or loved one to a crime recently might want to wait a while to read it. Also, if you're easily upset, or want books that take you only to a happy place- it probably isn't for you. Those who enjoy a good character-driven suspense/crime novel will probably be just as engrossed as I was - this is one of those books you just get lost in (no pun intended). If you haven't read Ketchum before, this is probably a good place to start to see if you like his writing. If you have read Ketchum before, and are a devoted reader of his, don't wait to pick this one up. If you're a fan of his, the book is definitely--though this might not be the best word, considering how harrowing a read this is--a real treat.  Like the best of Ketchum's work, &quot;The Lost&quot; is gripping, thrilling, haunting, and completely devastating.pense/crime novel will probably be just as engrossed as I was - this is one of those books you just get lost in (no pun intended). If you haven't read Ketchum before, this is probably a good place to start to see if you like his writing. If you have read Ketchum before, and are a devoted reader of his, don't wait to pick this one up. If you're a fan of his, the book is definitely--though this might not be the best word, considering how harrowing a read this is--a real treat.  Like the best of Ketchum's work, &quot;The Lost&quot; is gripping, thrilling, haunting, and completely devastating.	2001-05-16
US	51963567	RQRKS31V9FN6H	0451400755	815642952	The Breeze Horror (Onyx)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	I thought I was ready for this book. I wasn't.	I remember seeing this book quite a few times since it first came out in the mid-80's. ... A friend who is also really into horror told me to pick it up, because it was good and 'one of this sickest things he'd ever read'. I smugly thought, \\"We'll see\\", but knew he had good taste and thought I'd give it a shot.<br />Not only is the cover art lame, it's deceptive- neither the cover art, the description on the back, or the excerpt on the front page mention the fact that this is basically a zombie novel, with a some new twists. Like a lot of the best zombie movies and fiction, what caused the disease is vague- nuclear waste, outer space, something like that. The book begins when a toxic chemical rain comes down, infecting everyone it touches. The setting of the novel is an island (Sea Breeze Island, hence the title) where the main characters are trapped. Things are already bad, because the electricity doesn't work, anything with a motor doesn't work, they're cut off from any communication with the rest of the world (if the rest of the world even still exists), there's a limited amount of food and water, there's no way for anyone to get off the island, and those that try are melted into goo. The unlucky people that are infected grow sick and rot, are in horrible pain, but they don't crave flesh. Having them simply be cannabalistic would be much more cheerful than what happens to them. Their minds still work, so unfortunately they're just as smart, and strong as before, and just to add to the fun, as they get sicker they start going completely insane. It doesn't take too long for the zombies or 'beachers' to get tired of being in quarantine with no food or medical supplies, and begin to organize to take over. They go from mean-spirited to flat out sadistic to...well, you'll see. The book is divided into 4 parts, and beginning with part 4, becomes an out-and-out, free-for-all horror-fest. I could definitely see some easily disturbed or upset readers putting down the book well before the climax, however. I'm pretty jaded, and there were times when I just shook my head in amazement and disgust, wondering how much more unpleasant things could get.<br />If you like your humor pitch-black, you might find some amusement in parts of the book, but it still starts out depressing and just gets grimmer and uglier. ...The 'beachers' not only are smart and seemingly indestructible, but they keep developing horrible new features just as the humans start to think they might come out on top. Things go spectacularly wrong in ways you never even thought of; just when you think you know what's going to happen, the author will surprise you by taking the story spiraling off in a bizarre new direction.<br />Try as you might, you can't help but care about the characters, especially the central character, Sandy, and her toddler. While others around her start to go crazy from the horrible events, or just not care anymore, she manages to keep it together. At first she seemed like kind of a Pollyanna to me, but less than 100 pages in something completely unexpected and horrifying happens to her which she not only survives but grows stronger as a result of. Even if I wanted to give this plot point away, there's no way this review would make it online if I described it. The catch-phrase \\"death is only the beginning' has kind of gotten over-used in horror media, but in describing this book, doesn't seem strong enough.<br />Since the author makes clear early on all bets are off, and she's not going to go easy on the reader, it's pretty hard to predict what will happen next and how far she and her son will make it, so the suspense makes you want to keep reading...if you can stand to.  I'd be reading it and thinking, OK, this must be as nasty as this book can get, and then GOOD LORD!  Some hideous image or event would unfold that made me surprised this book made it past a mainstream publisher.  And by the way, don't even *think* about trying to eat while you're reading this. If you're hungry when you pick it up, food will be the last thing you want to think of by the time you put it down...<br />If you like horror fiction (or horror/Sci fi) and don't get upset or nauseated easily, I'd recommend this underrated, little seen book. The prose is great, the plot is extremely original (in fact, I'm now wondering if a couple more recently written novels [haven't been modled after it]) and genuinely frightening. Don't let the cover put you off- this is one genuinely frightening novel that delivers. ...I'm probably only going to recommend it to my friends that are into horror, though, and have read some pretty unpleasant, disturbing stuff already-otherwise they'll probably never want to read anything I recommend ever again. And even then I'm going to warn them, because this is one of the few things I've read that actually gave me nightmares. ...<br />This one will catch you off guard.ding this. If you're hungry when you pick it up, food will be the last thing you want to think of by the time you put it down... <br />If you like horror fiction (or horror/Sci fi) and don't get upset or nauseated easily, I'd recommend this underrated, little seen book. The prose is great, the plot is extremely original (in fact, I'm now wondering if a couple more recently written novels [haven't been modled after it]) and genuinely frightening. Don't let the cover put you off- this is one genuinely frightening novel that delivers. ...I'm probably only going to recommend it to my friends that are into horror, though, and have read some pretty unpleasant, disturbing stuff already-otherwise they'll probably never want to read anything I recommend ever again. And even then I'm going to warn them, because this is one of the few things I've read that actually gave me nightmares. ...<br />This one will catch you off guard.	2001-05-11
US	51963567	R3FS8UNCL0NHT8	0892967048	727646325	The Bottoms	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Classic Lansdale...in other words, don't wait for the PB.	I first read a version of this as a novella in the stellar collection edited by Al Sarrantino, &quot;999&quot;. I didn't buy this novel at first because I figured it was basically a rehash of the novel, give or take a sentence or two. Then I compared the length of the novella with the length of 'The Bottoms', and decided to give it a shot. I'm glad I did. The fleshed out version is not only longer, but adds many new elements, a couple sub-plots that weren't there before, some back story, and a couple new characters-or at least, so fleshed out that I didn't notice them in the novella, but definitely did here.<br />The story is told from the point of view of Harry, an 11 year old living in East Texas in the Depression. I'm sure I'm not the first person who will compare the book to &quot;To Kill A Mockingbird&quot;, and other reviewers have probably explained the comparison much more eloquently than me, so I'll skip that. Tom lives on a farm along with his parents, little sister Tom, and dog Toby. One day the poor dog is so badly injured that his father tells his son he will need to put it out of its misery. He and his sister venture into the woods with a shotgun, miserable because of the deed they must do. Soon, when it begins to get dark, this turns out to be the least of their problems. The area they are in is said to be the territory of the legendary 'Goat Man', a murderous monster who is half-man, but mostly beast, and may or may not be just a tall tale.  They also encounter a rotten, mutilated corpse of a woman wired to a tree.  The kids bring their father who is also the town sheriff (but his sheriff duties are so scant that he runs a barber shop and mainly does the police thing as a sideline) to the bloated body, which turns out to be one of the many victims of a serial killer at large. Harry and Tom are pretty sure the Goat man is responsible, but Harry's father is determined to track down the killer. Unfortunately, most of the towns residents range from mildly racist to openly racist to actual KKK members- and since the victim is black, they figure it's not worth it to try to find whoever is responsible. That is, until a white woman falls victim to the killer, and pretty soon all hell breaks loose.<br />Tom learns about many skeletons in the closets of the town members along the way, many of them still rattling around. He also finds out just how ugly and vicious some of the adults in the town really are. The theme of racism is very strong in this book; it was also a strong element of the novella but it really becomes prevalent in the novel. I don't especially enjoy reading the n-word repeatedly but this is, unfortunately, how most people talked in that era and location, and those extremely upset by the racist slurs may have to remind themselves that these hateful words are coming from the characters and not the author's own prejudices.<br />OK, that last sentence of mine may have sounded a tad preachy (sorry, I really try to avoid that), but the purpose of this novel is not to preach. This is one of the most un-pretentious novels I've read, and in fact, Lansdale (his ownself) is one of the most unpretentious authors I've had the pleasure to read. Instead of preaching, the book entertains and lets you escape into Tom's world and experiences. Instead of hitting you over the head with a message, the events are simply observed by Tom and the other characters, and through his eyes, you experience him slowly becoming aware of racism, how people are not always the way you perceive them, and that evil definitely does exist.<br />The Bottoms does have less of Lansdale's great sense of humor than his other works, like, say, the Hap and Leonard series or the Drive In books. This is one of his grimmer, bleaker books, but that didn't stop me from reading it in one greedy sitting. As always, I was completely engrossed by his unique writing style, incredible talent for storytelling, and unforgettable characters. This book does have less gore than some of Lansdale's other horror fiction, but it is definitely disturbing and nasty just the same (you might not want to read it while eating). Recommended, of course, for Lansdale fans-even if you've read the novella. If you especially liked the novella, you'll love this book, even though you know how its all going to play out. Those easily upset or disturbed might want to skip it-though if you enjoy a gripping, well-written crime/mystery novel, you might want to give the Bottoms a shot anyway, and discover a new author you'll want to read more of. You'll either like his style or you won't...but he's a pretty hard author not to like.ss gore than some of Lansdale's other horror fiction, but it is definitely disturbing and nasty just the same (you might not want to read it while eating). Recommended, of course, for Lansdale fans-even if you've read the novella. If you especially liked the novella, you'll love this book, even though you know how its all going to play out. Those easily upset or disturbed might want to skip it-though if you enjoy a gripping, well-written crime/mystery novel, you might want to give the Bottoms a shot anyway, and discover a new author you'll want to read more of. You'll either like his style or you won't...but he's a pretty hard author not to like.	2001-04-25
US	51963567	R335IT8IEFI66R	1887368353	292687471	Ladies Night	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Ladies Night of the Long Knives	First of all, take the warning on the cover that this book contains upsetting, graphic subject matter seriously. I'm a longtime horror reader, and while I read and enjoy many authors, only a handful of them have disturbed me to the point of giving me nightmares after I read their work. Jack Ketchum, aka Dallas Mayer, is one of them. If you're a JK fan (or have read and finished Off-Season or The Girl Next Door), you'll know what I mean. And if you love JK, pick this up fast if you haven't already. It's one of his best and most memorable. It's also one of his most cold-blooded, which Ketchum readers will know is saying a lot.<br />Ladies Night (great title, by the way) takes place over a short period of time-about 24 hours, actually. The plot reminded me of Cronenberg's &quot;Rabid&quot;, Romero's Dead trilogy, and Phillip Nutman's &quot;Wet Work&quot;. A virus that the government developed, presumably as a weapon, leaks out and quickly begins to effect females only. The chemical/disease causes women to slowly but completely lose their minds (note: insert PMS joke of your choice here). The main symptoms are women becoming homicidally violent, with their hormones and sex drive also going berserk (and not in any sort of a fun way). The plotline mainly focuses on the residents of one apartment complex, but also carries into the insanity on the streets as well. It's almost a twist on &quot;Night of the Long Knives&quot;, with women as the ones who gang up and take over.<br />One of the more upsetting elements of the story is that families are quickly and completely torn apart. Sons, brothers, boyfriends and husbands have no choice but to defend themselves against the woman they love most in the world, and one of them is going to have to die in almost all these cases. Also, a few rare women are immune, so they have to defend themselves against other women and also men who might think they're a threat.<br />I have yet to talk to a male who has read this book. My husband doesn't read fiction, but if he did, I know this would scare the you-know-what out of him. Come to think of it, with all due respect, I can't imagine any man not being disturbed by this book, for obvious reasons. Men who have an especially moody spouse or close family member...maybe they should read a different title instead. I think women readers will also be scared by a whole different element. Every woman has probably felt on the verge of losing it completely and felt a fear that they might lose control and hurt someone. It's a cliche, but especially during one week of the month. Women know they have this inside them, and the book plays on that fear.<br />Before I read this book, there's a couple pieces of information I already knew from my college majors of Women Studies and Deviant Psychology. One is that both PMS and pregnancy have both been used successfully as a legal defense for murder charges. The other is that women as a rule fight more viciously and nastily than men. &quot;They just want to do the most amount of damage in the shortest time possible, and they'll fight dirtier than any man to do it,&quot; as a Jerry Springer security guard said in an interview when asked who they were most scared of getting between in fights. These facts seemed amusing to me (though not to any men I told) before I read this book, but now I'm not seeing any humor in it at all. It came to my mind over and over while reading &quot;Ladies Night&quot;, and I remember having to shove it to the back of my mind because the book was already scaring the ... out of me enough.<br />If you're a Ketchum fan, this is a must read. It's up there with The Girl Next Door and Off-Season as one of his most disturbing and memorable works. I think that most Ketchum readers will agree that there are scenes or images from these books that have stuck with them and even haunted them for a loooong time. I first read this book years ago, and it still gives me the creeps to think about. Like TGND, I re-read it because the prose and plotline had such a strong, lasting effect on me...and I realized it was just as upsetting, if not more, as the first time. I'll never forget the son fighting desperately for his life against his formerly loving mother, and the ending was one of those that actually jumped out and smacked me in the face. I don't recommend this book for anyone that is easily upset or disturbed, or anyone who is already afraid of women. If you like your horror fast, hard, and nasty, then this is for you. I recommend it strongly for horror fans, both male and female, who want a novel that they'll never forget.read it because the prose and plotline had such a strong, lasting effect on me...and I realized it was just as upsetting, if not more, as the first time. I'll never forget the son fighting desperately for his life against his formerly loving mother, and the ending was one of those that actually jumped out and smacked me in the face. I don't recommend this book for anyone that is easily upset or disturbed, or anyone who is already afraid of women. If you like your horror fast, hard, and nasty, then this is for you. I recommend it strongly for horror fans, both male and female, who want a novel that they'll never forget.	2001-04-13
US	51963567	R59AN8A7GV76H	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	13	20	N	N	If you want another longtime King reader's opinion...	I'm not going to go into a detailed plot description because 1. the editorial reviews, especially Booklist, do it quite well and 2. because the plotline is so convoluted it would take up most of the 1,000 word limit. As a rabid King reader for 20+ years, the first book I actually had trouble finishing was Gerald's Game. Unfortunately, after that, a few more came, and I was starting to worry King had finally burned himself out. Then the Green Mile restored my faith. Since then, enough titles that I've really enjoyed, such as Hearts in Atlantis, have been interspersed with the ones I read once and put away with the rest of my collection, gathering dust. One of those titles is Insomnia, and unfortunately for me, that's the King book Dreamcatcher reminded me of most strongly.<br />I am sorry to say that Dreamcatcher falls into the &quot;never pick it up again&quot; category. I really didn't think it was going to. All the excerpts I read online were wonderful, and I was starting to get attached to some of the characters already and couldn't wait to read more about them. I was pretty sure this was going to be one of his better ones.  I didn't have high expectations, but I did expect the rest of the novel to be somewhat as entertaining as the excerpts I read.  At first everything was going great-I was getting into the plot, I couldn't wait to see what happened next, and hoping nothing bad happened to the characters I liked. There were a couple of points where I got a little confused, but no big deal. A couple of plot-lines that involved events in the character's past started, and I was interested to know what happened to the characters as kids. The narrative jumped around just a bit, but I knew it would be explained later. So far so good.<br />Then I finished part 1 (about 150 pages in, I think). Part 2 started and it wasn't quite as enjoyable, but I gave it a chance. Fortunately other readers have commented that the narrative was confusing, so I don't feel so stupid, but I started having to page back and see if I'd missed something, or get the male characters straight. IT jumped around a lot too, and while I agree IT was uneven and bordering on sloppy in a few spots, it's one of my favorites. 3/4 of the way through, I wondered if he had to rush Dreamcatcher out because of a deadline, because it seemed like he was desperately slapping together the plotline as he went along. I know King has said in the past that as he was writing, he didn't know what was going to happen next, and the book almost wrote itself. I have no problem with this when the novel is well-written and I'm drawn into the characters-some of the books he's said this about were among my favorites. Unfortunately, it didn't seem to work so well this time.<br />There were scenes in the character's past that seemed to play a big factor on the events that were eluded to, but on a couple, he never went back and fleshed it out. I also wondered if he'd handed in a rough draft, and since this was his first fiction since his accident, his editors didn't want to discourage him so they kept their usual feedback to themselves and figured it was better to put out the book, flaws and all, quickly and not give any suggestions to improve the book. I also get the sneaking suspicion someone in charge said, &quot;what the hell, it's Stephen King so it'll sell like crazy no matter what's between the covers&quot;. It just seemed to need polishing up, and I kept wondering if King just submitted the first draft the second after he finished it without even a re-read, and that's what was published.<br />I liked the flashback scene to the first encounter with Duddits, the characters I did care about, and the you-know-what weasels. After I was halfway through, about the only thing that perked me up were the &quot;in-jokes&quot; about Derry that first time readers won't catch. The character of Duddits and his mother started out great, but I ended up feeling manipulated and feeling like Dean Koontz(who I also enjoy, but when I want to read Koontz I'll pick up one of his books) stepped in to write a section, and didn't try very hard. Another thing that bothered me was that there's a strong theme of childhood and memories of past, but the novel didn't flash back long enough for it to work, and it felt incomplete. Several times I found myself paging back, thinking I missed something. Nope. What seemed like recycled material from IT and Tommyknockers didn't help either. I have no problem with 'recycling' but only if it works.<br />So, if I had to put every King novel I read in order of my favorite to least favorite, this wouldn't be at the very bottom (Insomnia would be there along with Rose Madder and Gerald's Game). I feel guilty not giving this more than 3 stars, but I know King can do so much better. If you're a hardcore King fan like me, obviously you'll pick it up like all his others if you haven't already. But I would advise not paying full price, and keeping your expectations low...unless you loved Insomnia, in which case you'll probably have more fun with this book than I did. I understand that there's bound to be some misfires with a writer as prolific as King, so I chalk Dreamcatcher up as one. Fortunately, I know there's gonna King books somewhere in the future that I love and become some of my favorites.  This just isn't one of them.z (who I also enjoy, but when I want to read Koontz I'll pick up one of his books) stepped in to write a section, and didn't try very hard. Another thing that bothered me was that there's a strong theme of childhood and memories of past, but the novel didn't flash back long enough for it to work, and it felt incomplete. Several times I found myself paging back, thinking I missed something. Nope. What seemed like recycled material from IT and Tommyknockers didn't help either. I have no problem with 'recycling' but only if it works.<br />So, if I had to put every King novel I read in order of my favorite to least favorite, this wouldn't be at the very bottom (Insomnia would be there along with Rose Madder and Gerald's Game). I feel guilty not giving this more than 3 stars, but I know King can do so much better. If you're a hardcore King fan like me, obviously you'll pick it up like all his others if you haven't already. But I would advise not paying full price, and keeping your expectations low...unless you loved Insomnia, in which case you'll probably have more fun with this book than I did. I understand that there's bound to be some misfires with a writer as prolific as King, so I chalk Dreamcatcher up as one. Fortunately, I know there's gonna King books somewhere in the future that I love and become some of my favorites.  This just isn't one of them.	2001-04-06
US	51963567	R28KMO193I3UWH	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	2	25	33	N	N	VROOM VROOM...sputter	Like many of the reviewers here, I'm a diehard, longtime King reader. He's been my favorite author since I bought the HC of Cujo when it first hit the shelves, and last year marked my 20th year as an avid fan. I just think he's a great storyteller, and love his writing style, especially his characterization.<br />The first book I actually had trouble finishing was Gerald's Game. After that, a few more came, and I was starting to worry King had finally burned himself out. Then the Green Mile restored my faith. Since then, there's fortunately been enough titles that I've really enjoyed interspersed with the ones I read once and put away with the rest of my collection, gathering dust. Unfortunately, of the latter titles happens to be Insomnia, and that's the King book Dreamcatcher reminded me of most strongly.<br />I am sorry to say that Dreamcatcher falls into the &quot;never pick it up again&quot; category. I really didn't think it was going to. All the excerpts I read online were wonderful, and I was starting to get attached to some of the characters already and couldn't wait to read more about them. I was pretty sure this was going to be one of his better ones.  I didn't have high expectations, but I did expect the rest of the novel to be in the same ballpark as the excerpts I read. <br />At first everything was going great-I was getting into the plot, I couldn't wait to see what happened next, and hoping nothing bad happened to the characters I liked. There were a couple of points where I got a little confused, but no big deal. A couple of plot-lines that involved events in the character's past started, and I was interested to know what happened to the characters as kids. The narrative jumped around just a tiny bit, but I knew it would be explained later.<br />Then I finished part 1 (about 150 pages in, I think). Part 2 started and it wasn't quite as enjoyable, but I gave it a chance. Fortunately other readers have commented that the narrative was confusing, so Idon't feel so stupid, but I started having to page back and see if I'd missed something, or get the male characters straight. IT jumped around a lot too, and while I agree IT was uneven and bordering on sloppy in a few spots, it's one of my favorites. 3/4 of the way through, I wondered if he had to rush this book out because of a deadline, because it seemed like he was desperately slapping together the plotline as he went along. I know King has said with many novels that as he was writing, he didn't know what was going to happen next, and the book almost wrote itself. I have no problem with this when the prose is well-written and I'm drawn into the characters-some of the books he's said this about were among my favorites. Unfortunately, it didn't seem to work so well this time.<br />There were scenes in the character's past that seemed to play a big factor on the events that were eluded to, but on a couple of him, he never went back and fleshed it out. I also wondered if he'd handed in a rough draft, and since this was his first fiction since his accident, his editors didn't want to discourage him so they kept their usual feedback to themselves and figured it was better to put out the book, flaws and all, quickly and not give any suggestions to improve the book. I also get the sneaking suspicion someone in charge said, &quot;what the hell, it's Stephen King and his first novel since his accident so it'll sell like crazy no matter what's between the covers&quot;. It just seemed to need polishing up, and I kept wondering if King just submitted the first draft the second after he finished it without even a re-read, and that's what was published.<br />I'm running out of room, so I might as well sum up with what I liked about the book and what I didn't. <br />What didn't work for me-<br />-the character of Duddits and his mother started out great, but I ended up feeling manipulated and feeling like Dean Koontz (who I also enjoy, but when I want to read Koontz I'll pick up one of his books) stepped in to write a section, and didn't try very hard.<br />-there's a strong theme of childhood and memories of past, but the novel didn't flash back long enough for it to work, and it felt incomplete. Several times I found myself paging back, wondering if I missed something. Nope.<br />- what seemed like recycled material from IT and Tommyknockers, which is fine if it works, but it didn't ring true to me <br />-too much of the plot being all over the place, too many places at once kind of at random<br />-the whole 'Mr. Gray' thing along with the character of Kurtz- just didn't hold my interest and bordered, I felt, on self-indulgent<br />-now that I think of it, almost everything after the first &quot;act&quot;.<br />What did:<br />-characters I cared about (though not as much as usual with King)<br />-the &quot;in-jokes&quot; about Derry that first time readers won't catch<br />-the flashback scene to the first encounter with Duddits<br />-the you-know-what weasels<br />-almost all of Part One.<br />So, if I had the put every King novel I read in order of my favorite to least favorite, this wouldn't be at the very bottom (Insomnia would be there along with Rose Madder and Gerald's Game and The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon). But it would be in the bottom 10. I didn't rate this above 2 stars because I know King can do so much better.If you're a hardcore King fan like I am, obviously you'll pick it up like all his others if you haven't already. But I would advise not paying full cover price, and keeping your expectations low.. Unless for some reason you loved Insomnia, in which case you'll probably have more fun with this book than I did. I understand that there's bound to be some misfires with a writer as prolific as King, so I chalk Dreamcatcher up as one. Fortunately, I know there's gonna King books somewhere in the future that I love and become some of my favorites.  This just isn't one of them. Oh well...	2001-04-05
US	51963567	R31V5YQP4SVE8W	1560252529	795057244	Lobotomy: Surviving the Ramones	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Gimme Gimme More Pages	I reviewed the first edition of this book, &quot;Poison Heart&quot;, a couple of years ago and have since revised my opinion a little. We were lucky enough to get Dee Dee to sign our copies last year and he was so friendly and happy to do it, I thought I'd re-read it and give the book another chance.<br />I waited a looong time for this book, and I wish I could say it was 100% worth the wait. Before I thought maybe 70%...now I'd say 96%. Upon first reading, -I couldn't believe that after all those years with the Ramones, Dee Dee didn't have ONE nice or positive memory or thing to say.  Don't get me wrong, I liked the book on first reading and love it now. Dee Dee has a great sense of humor, and even at his worst there's something so lovable about the guy. It sounds corny but there really is an innate sweetness under all that drug abuse and New York attitude. It's really just kind of depressing that he seems to have had such a miserable time. I knew he had problems with depression, but not this bad. Even though the Ramones are my favorite band and have been since the later 80's and I read everything I could get my hands on about them- I didn't know Dee Dee's drug problems lasted much longer than &quot;End of the Century&quot;.<br />The first edition of the book seems to be a series of wretched stories about being broke, taking drugs, turning tricks, getting beat up, taking more drugs, overdosing, getting beat up or stabbed by insane girlfriends, or out trying to cop drugs. The second edition at least has a more positive ending. Not to sound like a name-dropper (as I said to Iggy Pop the other day...just kidding) but I've spent time with the Ramones and agree that Joey can be moody and Johnny can be crabby and bossy, but that they are also nice people in general and can be fun to be with. I am glad there turned out to be at least ONE show, ONE night when Dee Dee was up there, playing bass and jumping up and down and thought, &quot;Man, this is pretty fun.&quot; Obviously there's still some bad feelings left, which is too bad. But then again, think of some of the people you may have worked with years ago who you still don't want to run into again because you're so sick of. And as another reviewer said, see the title of the book.<br />This book is also a very, very effective example of why not to do drugs.  You may not want to look at the pictures taken after 1989 if you want to remember him like he was. I do still tend to think, though, that &quot;Please Kill Me&quot; gave you a better idea of the Ramones and the New York punk scene back then, and even of Dee Dee's life. Now that's a solid, satisfying read and includes almost as many of Dee Dee's words as this autobio does. In both, it's clear he's a great storyteller.<br />Another thing that bugged me when I first read the book was there's absolutely NO mention of his wife of over 10 years, Vera Ramone, who he loved so much he married her in a church and had her name tattooed on his arm. Like she never existed, and I really wanted to hear about their marriage. I since found out that they have some kind of written agreement that he can't write about her, or she asked him not to and they are close enough so he respects her wishes.<br />Anyway, Dee Dee gets some great stories about the punk scene in, is a good sport about the less than shrewd decisions he's made in his life (&quot;Putting out a rap album didn't exactly win me any popularity contests&quot;, he writes) and has a great sense of humor. Just wish the book wasn't so short (and that he did an audio version). He said his next book is going to be a horror novel- now that I **really** can't wait to read.<br />Dee Dee's much smarter than he sounds...I still think every hardcore Ramones fan should have this in their collection.sly there's still some bad feelings left, which is too bad. But then again, think of some of the people you may have worked with years ago who you still don't want to run into again because you're so sick of. And as another reviewer said, see the title of the book.<br />This book is also a very, very effective example of why not to do drugs.  You may not want to look at the pictures taken after 1989 if you want to remember him like he was. I do still tend to think, though, that &quot;Please Kill Me&quot; gave you a better idea of the Ramones and the New York punk scene back then, and even of Dee Dee's life. Now that's a solid, satisfying read and includes almost as many of Dee Dee's words as this autobio does. In both, it's clear he's a great storyteller.<br />Another thing that bugged me when I first read the book was there's absolutely NO mention of his wife of over 10 years, Vera Ramone, who he loved so much he married her in a church and had her name tattooed on his arm. Like she never existed, and I really wanted to hear about their marriage. I since found out that they have some kind of written agreement that he can't write about her, or she asked him not to and they are close enough so he respects her wishes. <br />Anyway, Dee Dee gets some great stories about the punk scene in, is a good sport about the less than shrewd decisions he's made in his life (&quot;Putting out a rap album didn't exactly win me any popularity contests&quot;, he writes) and has a great sense of humor. Just wish the book wasn't so short (and that he did an audio version). He said his next book is going to be a horror novel- now that I **really** can't wait to read.<br />Dee Dee's much smarter than he sounds...I still think every hardcore Ramones fan should have this in their collection.	2001-03-09
US	51963567	R2DCGZ5K58WMJH	0312873824	918544799	The Chosen Child	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Sleep No More	This is one of the few books I've actually stayed up all night reading, which I haven't done in a while. I started in the late afternoon and the prologue got me hooked. I read until I normally fall asleep, but things just kept getting more and more interesting. By the scene about 3/4 of the way through where two major characters go into the depths of the sewer, getting lost, and start having to crawl through a pipe so tight that they have to push their way through it, I forgot about what time it was and just kept figuring 'one more chapter...&quot; until I realized what the heck, I might as well just stay up till 5am and finish the whole thing. I knew I'd be a zombie at work the next day, but it was so suspenseful I didn't care.<br />Masterton has been one of my favorite authors since the early 80's. I've read them all, even the mainstream fiction ones (I've skipped the sex manuals though...the way he writes about horror, I don't think I want to go there). One of trademarks seems to be very unique plots, with something very shocking or engrossing happening in the opening pages. His other is that in each of his books, without fail, half a dozen or so really, really hideous, grotesque, murders or revolting scenes happen that are so uniquely gruesome and original that I can't believe he even thought them up, let alone wrote them down. At least one of those scenes *never* gets out of my head. I'll usually see one of his titles when I'm browsing and I'll remember some horrible image from the novel to connect it with (even if I last read it years ago) like, &quot;Oh yeah, that's the one where the guy is possessed and takes a pair of shears and...&quot; I can't even come up with one I could describe and still get this review posted. If you've read Masterton, you know exactly what I'm talking about.<br />The &quot;Chosen Child&quot; is not Masterton's best, or even in the top 5, but it is one of his better ones. I put off reading it a little longer than usual because the cover gave me the impression the plot concerned an evil child. It *sort* of does, in a really twisted way, but there's much more to it than that. The cover is fairly misleading. The plot concerns a series of unusually nasty murders that are taking place on the site of a large hotel being built in Germany. The victims are disappearing in the sewer system, most of them lured down by what sounds like a child or small animal in pain. The construction workers flat out refuse to work anymore as they are convinced that the devil is responsible for the killings, and they are so terrified that even the threat of being fired doesn't make them budge. The executive in charge of supervising the project brings in an American detective to investigate, and there's a sub-plot about corruption and the German mob. It gets weirder and scarier and more interesting from there...<br />Part of what kept me hooked was that the things that happened got so bizarre that I knew Masterton would tie it all together with a great explanation. While the real story is never entirely revealed, you get enough information that you are satisfied as a reader and also, given a serious case of the creeps. There were characters I cared about that I really didn't want to be killed (especially since another of Masterton's specialties is getting the point across in such excruciating,  graphic, painfully long detail that being killed really, REALLY hurts more than you could ever imagine). There's other characters you really hate and want them to get some pay-back, so that kept me reading, too. Also, if you've read Masterton before, you know that some of his books do NOT have a happy ending. Some of them do, but you know the whole time you're reading the book that there's a fair chance things could end up in the worst possible way (a few of his novels have such downbeat endings that not only do the heroes die, but the world actually literally comes to an end). That's another element that kept me reading this book until it started getting light out. I didn't know what was going to happen next, and when I guessed, I was usually wrong.<br />Masterton fans, this is worth picking up in hardcover. I still don't regret the hours of sleep I lost...though I admit that the little sleep I did get wasn't especially peaceful.ntil it started getting light out. I didn't know what was going to happen next, and when I guessed, I was usually wrong.<br />Masterton fans, this is worth picking up in hardcover. I still don't regret the hours of sleep I lost...though I admit that the little sleep I did get wasn't especially peaceful.	2001-02-23
US	51963567	R10397GZFT7NZ6	0768339227	637651344	Swingin Chicks of the 60's 2001 Calendar: A Respectful Tribute to the Decade's Defining Women (Cedco Dailies)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Swingin' Chick a Day...	What a cool desk calender! The pages are varying shades of pink, with 60's flower shapes and decals. Every month there is at least one great black and white photo, and every day has a sillohuete of one of said chicks in darker pink. Since the sillohuetes don't always match the facts on each page, it's fun guessing who they are (Ann-Margret and Raquel Welch are pretty easy to pick out!)<br />Each page also has at least one fact about what happened that day in the 60's. For example, June 12th: &quot;1965-the musical duo of Sonny and Cher appears on TV for the first time, singing 'I Got You Babe' on American Bandstand&quot;. Birthdates of all the Swingin' Chicks are also included. I have the calendar on my desk at work, and several times a day someone remarks on how cool it is.<br />Groovy, baby!	2001-02-03
US	51963567	R1AV59BYB7UNKK	0375703764	383727435	House of Leaves	Books	4	222	238	N	N	a challenging read, but a fascinating one	I had never heard of this book when I picked it up, and I'm glad. I actually meant to order another book from my book club, but ordered this one mistakenly. My first thought was &quot;House of Leaves, that looks boring, maybe I can give it as a gift&quot;. Then I saw the quotes on the back by some of my favorite authors and wondered if I should give it a chance. Then I flipped through it and was interested by the way the book was put together. Then I read the description on the inside cover (which is mostly fictional) about the book being a collection of papers that circulated for a while on the internet, but had never been put together in a book format before, and the story about a house whose dimensions keep changing, and I was intrigued.<br />This is definitely a challenging read, in that it demands your full attention. In a couple places, it tells you to skip to the appendices and read a certain section, then return to where you were. The narrative goes back and forth between Johnny Truant's first person narrative (told in sections and footnotes) of how the book, by an elderly blind man who lived in his apartment complex and may not have been entirely sane, came into his possession and what it has done to his mind and his life, and the story told by the blind man about...about...you know, this is really a hard book for me to describe. It has stories within stories, about 800 different typefaces (it must have driven the typesetters, or whoever did the formatting at the publishing house, crazy) and formats that include interviews, bibliographiess, letters, transcripts, and even a section where there are just photographs of different scraps of paper. I probably had the most fun with the letter from Johnny Truant's mother that you actually have to take a pen and decode, because you have to take the first letter of every word and stick them together. I tried doing it my head, but was too tired, and ended up getting a pen and just taking the time to write it out and then read it. Unlike some of the unusual stuff in the book that really turned out to be meaningless or a dead end, the decoded letter turned out to be frightening (I actually had to toss the piece of paper it was written out on because I was worried someone would think I wrote it and had lost my mind).<br />This wasn't the scariest book I've ever read, but certain parts were very, very creepy and unsettling. Ever since I read The Legend of Hill House by Shirley Jackson, the idea of a house where the measurements don't quite add up or actually change has scared the bejeezus out of me.  True, you never see a monster, but to me, what you can imagine is always scarier than anything the author can dream up-the fear of the unseen. It's what scared some people so bad about The Blair Witch Project (dang it-I was hoping I could review this book without mentioning that movie!) I'm glad I read it at home where I could give it my full attention and not have people staring at me when I turned the book sideways and upside down and even turning it in spirals to follow the bizarrely formatted text. I'm also glad I read it before I read any reviews or heard any hype about it whatsoever, unlike the Blai---arrrgh! I did it again. I did have trouble getting into &quot;The Navidson Record&quot;, but it proved interesting. I didn't have any trouble getting into the Johnny Truant narrative--especially since the style of writing reminded me of the way Skipp and Spector used to write together (I really miss them).<br />Recommended for those looking for something different, or who want to read something that is engrossing enough to 'escape'. Also recommended to horror fans with an open mind. Not recommended reading, however, if you feel woozy or have a headache. For instance, every time the word 'house' is written, the typeface is slightly lighter than the rest of the text, and at first I couldn't tell if I were imagining it or not. I also made the mistake of trying to read part of the book when I was getting over an ear infection and still had some 'vertigo'- I had to put it down because rotating the book back and forth was starting to make me feel like I had the bedspins. If you're bored and want to read something different and challenging, and amusing? Definitely recommended.hen I was getting over an ear infection and still had some 'vertigo'- I had to put it down because rotating the book back and forth was starting to make me feel like I had the bedspins. If you're bored and want to read something different and challenging, and amusing? Definitely recommended.	2000-11-03
US	51963567	R1GG6DIC0W3W8O	1892950138	801164265	The Bighead : Author's Preferred Version	Books	4	9	12	N	Y	YOu mean there was stuff cut OUT of the other version?	I've  only read the out-of-print edition only, and I don't know if there's new/deleted material here or not in this &quot;Author's Preferred Version&quot;. Furthermore, I don't think I WANT to know. The tagline to  the other one was &quot;The Grossest Book You'll Ever Read!&quot; The  Bighead might not be THE grossest book I've ever read (I've read some  pretty nasty ones) but it's up there in the top 5. It takes a lot to shock  me and make me sick but at least every 10 pages I would say out loud  &quot;Oh MAN!&quot;.<br />Unlike, say, American Psycho, which is also  disgusting but boring, you actually care about the characters in this book  and what happens to them, especially the priest and the nympho. There is  some really sick stuff in here, that makes me want to not run into either  Ed Lee or John Pelam in a dark alley. But, if you can stomach it (and why  would you buy it if you wanted something mild) it's a great read. There are  images in the book, mainly the detailed exploits of the two hillbilly  killers (who make the guys from Deliverance look like Mr. Rogers) that will  stick with you for a looooooong time. I dare anyone to read it while eating  and not spit out their food. Edward Lee and John Pelham are a great team,  and I eagerly await their next collaboration...just not while I'm trying to  eat...	2000-07-14
US	51963567	R2V8XYNBMYLGD9	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	I wanted to like this book so bad...	...but I was let down. I'm giving it 3 stars mainly for the quality of the writing. I'm a big Marilyn fan, but I'm not deluded. Yes, she utilized the casting couch. Yes, she had substance abuse problems. Yes, she had  emotional problems. But was she really this dizzy, messed up, and  miserable? Did she have only a few happy months (all put together) in her  life total? I know  Mr. President didn't treat her like a princess, but  God,  I think the author really went overboard in the scenes where he and  the secret service treat her like a whore. I'd heard this book was the  &quot;ultimate&quot; fictionalized Marilyn bio, but now I wonder if many  reviewers called it that just because of the length.  I did like the  narrative from other's point of view, especially Joe, I mean the  Ex-Athelete's. But it just made me depressed in the end and, bottom line,  left me wanting more and feeling let down, and wanting to go back and  reread Korda's &quot;The Immortals&quot; for the 20th time, because I just  liked that one so much better, and it gave me more of an idea of what it  would have been like to be in Monroe's shoes. I actually wish I hadn't gone  and paid full price because I couldn't wait to get it here for a  discount...I don't regret reading it, though.	2000-05-06
US	51963567	R14RLEBX78SNWG	0684829746	525025288	Cruddy: A Novel	Books	4	13	19	N	N	Totally Unique and Totally Lynda Barry	I simply saw the cover of this book-the colors, the fact that the whole cover was done by Barry, the fact that it was an illustrated novel, the matte-finish cover-- in the bookstore and yanked it up to paw through.  Phrases from the dustjacked jumped out, like &quot;Easy Rider meets Natural  Born Killers&quot; and &quot;bloodbath...1965...1971...&quot; and  &quot;hotel massacre...desert...unforgettable...&quot;then I saw the inside  plates of carefully drawn maps of the journey Roberta, the heroine and her  twisted father take, with a key indicating &quot;X = dead bodies&quot; and  notations like &quot;the place where the sherriff pulled the knife by the  traintrack&quot; and fell in love. I was down to my last 10 bucks and it  wasa week till payday and I begged by husband to please buy the book for  me, because I couldn't wait, I was hooked. My sweet spouse purchased it for  me 2 days later and I read it all in one greedy gulp, stopping to savor her  poetic dialogue, the frightening images both illustrated in her drawings  and prose. You think how you know the book will end when you read the first  pages. But when you get to the end, a wonderful surprise awaits you. A word  of advice--don't look at the last 2 pages and cheat, wait until you get  there, and cover up the last hand-written paragraph till the very end. YOu  will get a very big smile on your face. Not to say that there are not parts  in this brilliant novel that will break your heart, but that's part of the  beauty of &quot;Cruddy&quot;. Oh, and no matter how bad you think you have  it, after reading the gut-wrenching, hauntingly realistic experiences the  narrator goes through, your life will seem like Gwyneth Paltrow's in  comparison. I only subtracted a star because the book was over too fast.	1999-09-17
