US	51963791	RUHOMPG66NW76	0385336497	568347669	Parachute Infantry: An American Paratrooper's Memoir of D-Day and the Fall of the Third Reich	Books	5	51	54	N	Y	Not your ordinary soldier	Kenyon, as he calls himself in his letters home, wrote a fascinating experience of the Second World War and the now legendary 506 PIR.  This book differs from so many other first person texts in that it is written by a man with a fair amount of education prior to the war and based on the content of his letters home to his parents, Kenyon was not from a stereotypical 1930's family. <br />He doesn't write about incredibly fierce combat, indeed the most intense experience he relates is his experience in Holland. He claims to have only killed one German soldier for sure but, after seeing the Lager system, wishes he had killed more. <br />He has little love for the French, loved the Dutch and had a grudging respect for the German people. And his tales of his comrades and the friendships and intense loyalties with his squad mates make it clear what esprite de corps really arises from. <br />This book is masterfully written and a pleasure to read. After reading this text I am tempted to order Webster's book on sharks because I am sure it would be a pleasure to read. <br />If you like personal tales and are not looking for a definitive history of the 101st AirBorne (of which there are plenty written), then this book is as good as it gets. <br />	2005-09-17
US	51963791	R3B9MPGYC1K2OQ	0316545562	70090647	A World Lit Only by Fire: The Medieval Mind and the Renaissance: Portrait of an Age	Books	4	8	12	N	Y	Review of yesterday or thesis about today?	This book stirs up a great deal of controversy, especially its analysis of the Papacy and Lutheranism.  Some facts in this text are uncontroversial while others can and often are interpreted differently. However, this book presents a light scholarly approach that is easy to read and certainly provides the reader with a picture of the territory discussed.  The most fascinating aspect discussed is the ferocity that many groups defended the ignorance that guarded their power.  Heretics were burnt at the stake not because they were considered wrong but because they were a danger to the powers that were (be).  <br />This book will open your mind if it is read as a hypothesis of the impact of the control of information and the impact that has on the powerful and the powerless.  Also, it is indisputable that written language, dissemination of knowledge, and the rising merchant class (and thus non-state controlled wealth) were the downfall of the dark ages.  If Leonardo had been born 2 centuries earlier, his ideas and thoughts would have been lost among the illiteracy of the age.  Gutenberg's invention freed humanity from the oppressing darkness of ignorance and now, as the world becomes more complicated, so many are reaching for the easy solution of ignorance and fundamentalism.  Seeing the world as it is can be frightening, but to blindly follow those who wield power only results in the tyranny of the majority.  So truly, did Mr. Manchester write this text as a true historical work of medieval history and the birth of intelligence or as an allegory for today's world? <br />	2004-12-16
US	51963791	R3QY60L329OZ8P	0446679283	924728391	Triathlete Magazine's Complete Triathlon Book: The Training, Diet, Health, Equipment, and Safety Tips You Need to Do Your Best	Books	4	32	32	N	Y	Excellent Intro to multisport	I've run numerous races (including marathons) but I was new to the world of cycling and swimming. This book had just what I needed to get started and get going.  I found the swim section especially useful and learned a great deal about what my stroke should look and feel like.  The simple leasons took 3 minutes off my 750m pace (in the pool).  Some of the off beat advice (matching clothes) for example seemed a bit silly and directed to those jonesing. But in the end, this was a very useful book and got me through the Chicago Triathlon with out too much difficulty.  Some of the lessons just have to be applied to be realized however (read here: Open water swimming!).  If this book would have had some serious training schedules in it, I would have given it 5 stars. It does contain a weak training bit right in the middle of the text, but it isn't all that helpful or informative.	2004-09-14
US	51963791	R1P7KITQ3OIN93	0316529400	725523175	The Arms of Krupp: The Rise and Fall of the Industrial Dynasty That Armed Germany at War	Books	5	75	83	N	N	Mountains of steel	The Arms of Krupp is a brilliantly written book detailing the rise and fall of one of the most powerful families in history. The family of Krupp was the armorer of the first, second and third German Reichs. The origins of the family's wealth begin with Arndt Krupp surviving the Black Plague and purchasing land that just happened to contain the richest coal deposits in Europe. The firm or die Firma was built on 3 basic principles, innovation (many new alloys, metals, methods and weapons are attributable to the Krupp firm), political leverage, and absolute suzerainty of a single head of the family. Indeed the head of the Krupp family ruled a state with in a state.      Unlike most industrial families, the Krupps appear to understand very early on that the health and welfare of the workers is a necessity of the survival and prosperity of die Firma itself. That fact makes Krupp's treatment of the slave labor (Jewish and Eastern \\"stucke\\") even more appalling. Indeed, Krupp violated even the pathetic SS prisoner treatment rules, formed an internal Gestapo, and tortured workers accused of ridiculous crimes (stealing food) considering the treatment they were given.      William Manchester spends a great deal of time on the Holocaust and Krupp's involvement in it. Indeed, Krupp raided captured factories across Europe and enslaved tens of thousands. In my opinion, this period represents the heights of wealth and the depths of morality for the firm and the family. Krupp sold his Reich marks to get real capital and at the same time employed the Nazi slave labor program to maintain production. Wealth generated on the backs of the conquered territories and enslaved peoples.      But the single most damning legacy of the Krupp dynasty is Bushmannhof ? a concentration camp for children of Krupp's slave labor program. Not even children really but infants. No fence was erected around this camp as its prisoners couldn't have escaped even if they were big enough to walk. Witnesses at Nuremburg stated that infants lay naked on rubber sheets too weak to do anything until death came to claim them. In theory, mothers could come visit once per week, but this was impossible and no alternative was ever even considered. In total war, innocence is no protection. While Gustav and Alfried Krupp ate with solid gold place ware in a bombproof bunker. Children of workers forced to keep the rolling presses moving were dying of starvation and preventable diseases.   They were buried in the earth beneath small numbered plaques. Never to laugh, never to play, they were born but to die under the suzerainty of Krupp.      But memories are short, Alfried was released to help forge the swords of the cold war and indeed, at his death in 1968, the Krupp firm was turned into a publicly held company and the only Krupp Heir - his son Arndt - continues to prosper due in a large part to the Lex Krupp, a law issued by Adolph Hilter.      And the little numbered plaques have probably crumbled to nothing by now.	2004-07-20
US	51963791	RMTU7I3YZSDR6	0553294385	297254906	I, Robot (The Robot Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Groundbreaking but now dated	Asimov's greatest strength as a writer was his ability to take a concept and cascade its effect throught out the culture he wrote about. I, Robot shows the evolution of the simple robot from an mute entity similar to a loyal, very smart, pet dog to a creature more than capable of dominating its master.<BR>Many of the assumptions in Asimov's book are now somewhat funny in hindsight (Robot's cost $30,000, the population of the earth is 3 Billion) but the science fiction is still cutting edge. Indeed the premise behind the such great movies as the Matrix, Terminator, and AI are due to this book and let's not forget Bishop the android in Alien's.<BR>This book is a quick and easy read but in the world we live in now with intelligent, unmanned military hardware apparently just around the corner, this book should be a required part of any modern philosophy class.  Indeed, what is the next step for Global Hawks and Predator Drones?  It seems that removing the need for a human operator can only be days not years away.<BR>I, Robot indeed.	2004-06-25
US	51963791	R246DTOS504U3D	1580800386	858058989	Company Commander: The Classic Infantry Memoir of World War II	Books	4	7	13	N	N	Pretty good, but lacking something...	Mr. MacDonald's book is a good and quick, easy read.  It tells the tale fairly well, but for some reason just didn't engage me as much as many other first person accounts of WWII.  It is an honest feeling account with out bravado, but for some reason it doesn't convey emotional sensation very well.  <BR>Mr. MacDonald was certainly a qualified commander, especially based on the accounts of his relatively few casualties compared to those inflicted by his men.  He led from near the front and was wounded by gunfire on one occasion. <BR>This book is certainly worth the effort to read, but it isn't the best of its type.	2004-02-13
US	51963791	R3583T446RM49S	0803294379	281428091	Battle: The Story of the Bulge	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Dramatic and spectacular telling	Toland wrote a masterpiece, and while not as detailed as some texts, and certainly not as complete due to the fact that many official records were still locked up tight, it delivers the flow of this massive battle and delivers all the cold and terror associated with Wacht am Rhein.<br />This book is a quick and easy read and general enough for unfamiliar readers. It captures the human side of the story from both sides of the front.  My only complaint about this book is that it could have been much longer!  Toland also avoids long lists of unit designations but does deliver the relevant facts when necessary (for example, when dealing with the ill-fated 106th Division).<br />Usually the politics of the generals are written in an uninteresting and dry fashion, but Toland captures the dynamics of Bradley, Ike, Patton, and Monty very well.  It is hard to decide who has the biggest personality disorder among this crowd, but Bradley and Patton seem to come out as the most matter of fact and concerned with strategies and combat rather than politics.  Monty comes across as a pompous blowhard, even when he makes a feeble attempt to praise his Allied counterparts.  There is a little less about the German High Command, Model, Rundstedt, and Hitler, but a large part of that information was not available at the time of Toland's writing. It is telling of human nature that while thousands bleed and froze those at the top are issuing statements to clarify their political positions.<br />Overall, a fabulous book, well written and captivating to read.	2004-01-08
US	51963791	R1TLUJL50YQRCL	0385478348	649629334	Warfighting	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Thought processes for victory	This is not a how to manual; it isn't even a doctrine guideline. Instead it is a philosophy book. This book lays out simple, fundamental and critical facts about any conflict situation. The value of flexibility, of planning, of taking advantage of opportunities and maintaining the initiative are layout in a quick and easy read.<BR>These truths are valid for the warfighting philosophy of the Marine Corp just as they are for meetings, debates, or presentations or critical reviews. The value of acting on a good plan quickly instead of waiting for the perfect plan later rang especially true. How many times are businesses caught flatfooted by competitors not because they didn't see the trend coming but because they were frozen by indecision?<BR>I highly recommend this book to anybody who is curious about attack, defense, feint, and parry in any situation. The best defense is said to be a good offense, but perhaps the best offense is simply understanding and acting according to the simple principles in Warfighting.	2003-12-12
US	51963791	R1VJOTU71M4DMP	0415921988	44711383	Me Against My Brother: At War in Somalia, Sudan and Rwanda	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Famine, combat, and mass graves	A very brief review of Scott Peterson's macabre book would simply say \\"Chilling, gruesome, and violent\\". This book is a must read for anybody curious about the UN or US missions to Africa and the seemingly endless violence that occurs there on massive scales.  As I write this, Rwanda is struggling to hold an election after the 1994 Genocide and Liberia seems to be on the brink of spiraling down into a conflict marked by massacres.  Mr. Peterson's book makes you wonder how humanity could sink to the level that it has over and over again, but make no mistake, the conflicts in this book devoured women and children as quickly as male combatants. Even the definition of a combatant is blurry in a world where 10 year olds are trained as shock troops.  Famine is used as a weapon as the countryside is deliberately ransacked by warlords.  Disease and starvation soon join the fray.  The scale of the violence becomes unreal. In Rwanda approximately 800,000 people were exterminated in few months. Mostly with machetes and clubs, not machineguns or gas chambers.  It is hard to comprehend the personal face to face orgy of destruction that lead time and time again to children being grouped together and beaten to death.<BR>This book raises questions about the usefulness of food aid to refugees as it is hijacked by combatants and refugees are forced to move around to allow \\"combat units\\" access to the food that the world ships in.  It would seem that the meddling of the world isn't helping the larger geo-political situation in these countries and indeed that the only real solution will have to be an African solution as the citizens in these war torn countries decide that peace is worth more than war.	2003-08-26
US	51963791	RXG85CF6HN926	0812218310	88507872	The Battle of the Huertgen Forest	Books	5	32	33	N	Y	Attrition at its worse	MacDonald's text is the original non-scholarly texts written on this battle, he does however reference many Allied and German war records and unit histories as well as personal accounts of troops who were present.  His credentials as a military historian are also well established adding significant value to this work.<BR>This text is very well written and is the origin for many of the theories that are often repeated with regards to this battle - specifically that it was a useless use of manpower and that it never had the proper goals or objectives (the Roer River Dams specifically).  Indeed, MacDonald quotes German commanders puzzlement about why the Americans were making such strong attacks into the forest.<BR>Hindsight makes us wonder why the attack into the forest was pressed Division by Division with the loss of armored, artillery and air support and indeed the forest and the Germans extracted a heavy toll. Indeed one wonders why an airborne attack at the Roer River Dams coupled with a an armored push north (the Aachen Gap) and South (to the Roer) was not used to isolate the forest defenders, especially when one considers what was accomplished in the Falaise and Roer Pockets by the Allies or in the numerous encirclements achieved by the Wehrmacht on the Ostfront. Instead it appears that Eisenhower's broad front strategy condemned many soldiers to slugging it out yard by yard in the forest.<BR>Regardless of the opinions or analysis aided by nearly 60 years of time - this is an excellent text and well worth reading as an insight into some of the hardest combat the allies saw in the ETO.	2003-04-30
US	51963791	RDETXJWGHOOQ7	0684873850	23038198	Beyond Valor: World War II's Ranger and Airborne Veterans Reveal the Heart of Combat	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Almost Beyond Belief!	Beyond Valor is a compilation of interviews compiled into a sequential narration of the Allied elite forces (Airborne, Rangers, and SAS) and the experiences of their personnel told in vivid first person accounts.  The stories are personal, emotional, painful and ultimately gruesome.  These are descriptions of combat as can only be told by individuals who have been at the sharp end. Combat stories are told that occurred at distances of ranging from long range artillery to hand to hand knife fights.  Several unifying themes occur in these stories, primarily tales of comrades, pain, suffering, fear, and loss.  Most stories include mention of friends lost in the prime of their lives in the course of the great service these men provided to the world. <BR>One very useful aspect of this book is the honest candor of the interviews.  There are several accounts of prisoners being killed by American troops, especially in the moment immediately following combat or the loss of friends.  Proof in my mind of the honesty of the accounts, it is hard to imagine any army that has ever existed where emotions didn't boil over and create this kind of murderous hatred.   These accounts are particularly poignant and filled with regret and self incrimination, even when telling of deeds witnessed not performed.  It is refreshing to see a book that documents the American perspective from a first person account of these kinds of unfortunate events, it is only propaganda to think that only Japanese and German troops shot prisoners. It is the unfortunate reality of troops in the intense stress and devalued existence that is front line combat.<BR>This book highlights the uncertainties of life at the front and the odd twists of fate that can dictate survival.  The luck of all those who speak from these pages is clear, nearly every account contains a near miss or a minor wound of some sort. Most accounts include the names of friends lost and of the intense pride these men felt to part of the Airborne, SAS or the Rangers.  This text is an excellent compilation of first person accounts that tell the tale of the life of the enlisted trooper in these elite organizations.	2003-03-08
US	51963791	R2Z2KG2PY0FKZV	0440236274	484214539	Seven Roads to Hell: A Screaming Eagle at Bastogne	Books	5	27	30	N	Y	Withstanding the storm	Mr. Burgett was a 19 year old paratrooper in the 101st airborne who had the luck (good or bad) to witness some of the fiercest fighting that took place during the second world war. This book provides you with the feel from the trenches of those terrible dark days when it looked like the Wehrmacht and Hitler's Germany were striking forward again. The terrible cold, fear, and the brutality of the combat spring to life in this well written account. This text is an easy and quick read, I finished it on one 3 hour plane flight. <BR>Mr. Burgett participated in multiple attacks and defenses and his writing of them is extremely detailed as I suppose those memories linger quite clearly. This is not a book of strategy or an overview of the Battle of Bastogne, but simply how one man experienced the combat and the losses. No quarter was given or asked for. Prisoners were given no solace as there was no food, medicine or even men to guard them. This was combat in its rawest form. A good reminder to all of what war really is in its basic form - young men killing other young men. Mr. Burgett experienced this at arms length and is kind enough to share his experiences. Read this and be thankful for the freedom from fascism that we share!	2002-12-19
US	51963791	R1CKN7KST2XN7E	0898865409	929510061	A Life on the Edge: Memoirs of Everest and Beyond	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A few steps above!	Jim Whittaker began his life with only one real difference from most of us and that is that he had an identical twin. However from almost the day of his birth onward, his life accelerated beyond what is normal for most of us.<BR>Mr. Whittaker enjoyed some luck in his life, particularly his ability to meet and mingle with some very powerful, influential and skilled individuals. He also enjoyed the benefit of his own hard work - from his days at REI to his climb on Everest and his efforts to put Americans on top of K2. He also had his share of bad luck, a divorce and a bankruptcy. This makes this story so much more entertaining because it is real, it is personal, it is something that could have happened to almost anyone with the drive and love of the mountains that Mr. Whittaker possessed.<BR>The accounts of his alpine adventures, whether on Mt. Rainier or Mt. Everest or K2, are gripping, well written and harsh reminders of why mountaineering is not a sport for the faint of heart. Jim lost many of his close friends through out his life and the mountains claimed many of them. Despite any set back however, he pushed onward. This drive doesn't appear to be the result of a lust for glory or wealth but simply an extension of the man himself. In my opinion, his greatest successes are not the mountains he climbed but the peace and love of nature, family, and the mountains that he has helped others find.<BR>This book is well written and easy to read and the pictures included are breathtaking (I wish there were more!). Reading this text will almost assuredly add a name to your list of personal heroes.	2002-12-11
US	51963791	R3VDMHDT4NL1DT	0140114068	181024941	The Mask of Command	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	Personalities, leadership, heroism, and the future	Dr. Keegan has another masterpiece.  This book details leadership styles and techniques by answering a very simple question: \\"In front? Always, sometimes, never?\\"  The historical perspective on the question is provided in 4 fascinating biographies of Alexander the Great, Wellington, Grant, and Hitler.  Amazingly little changed in terms of how war was fought between Alexander and Wellington and yet the cultural impact of their societies had profound impact on their power of authority and the means in which they wielded it.  I personally found the biography of Grant to be the most interesting and how the influence of rifled muskets and the large presence of cannon drove commanders farther from the front line and how democratic society supported that removal of  \\"shared risk\\".  Hitler's biography clarified a great deal of history and myth that I had not read previously: Hitler actually had a much more distinguished career as a soldier than I had previously understood and that had a profound effect on his understanding and misunderstanding of the circumstances of the Second World War.  Hitler appeared to understand a large portion of the mechanisms of leadership and warfare but misunderstood the key lessoned to be learned from the First World War: that the leader on the scene is often capable of the best decisions.<BR>The text effortless weaves these historical perspectives into a short, concise study of leadership styles and requirements and then presents a clear thesis on leadership in the nuclear age.  This thesis is truly terrifying in light of the implications of history; our origins appear to contradict the requirements for future survival.  This text is as much a study in leadership and management styles as it is a military science text. It is well written and highly enjoyable. If only we could get Dr. Keegan to add an addendum to leadership in the age of stateless terror.	2002-09-24
US	51963791	RMQH00M26WGEI	0375409009	105731385	Masters of Death: The SS-Einsatzgruppen and the Invention of the Holocaust	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	This is the best book you'll ever hate	The scale of death, terror, and utter macabre horror contain within the covers of this text document the actions of the SS Sonderkommandos and Einsatzgruppen as they rampaged through out the Eastern occupied territories implementing the first phase of Hitler's and Himmler's final solution.  Mr. Rhodes has written a masterpiece that must have almost driven him insane to work on. This text will keep you awake at night and make you shudder and weep.  The human feeling conveyed from the pages of this book are much more intense than \\"Hitler's willing executioners\\" and the social theory arguments tend to seem more complete but are not thoroughly defended or brought to a believable conclusion.  The book ends rather weakly with a brief run down of the fates of the Einsatzgruppen leaders and a brief quote from a survivor of a  \\"Jewish aktion\\". The social theory and the ending should not be used to judge the value of this book.  Reading this book is incredibly hard and depressing; the only good feeling it evoked was pride for the veterans of the war against Germany for surely they were fighting against the darkest of evil.  As a person of European (mostly German) heritage, I felt utter disbelief that human beings could have carried out the mass slaughters but the historical record is clear. Entire villages, cities, and countries were rendered \\"Judenfrei\\" in the personal, face to face, shooting executions conducted.  Men, women, children, even diapered infants were all brutally exterminated, thousands at a time.<BR>This book is essential to understanding the development of the concentration camp system from the actions of the death squads and the history of the Jewish Holocaust.  It is a who's who of the beginnings of the Nazi extermination program and contains details that I had not read about previously (\\"Sardinenpackung\\" for one chilling example).  It documents the impact of the mass murders on the killers who suffered mental breakdowns and other psychological traumas - proof in my mind that they knew what they were doing was illegal and morally indefensible.  It also documents the participation of numerous auxiliary units - Romanian, Ukrainian, Lithuanian etc. who aided and conducted murders on massive scales as well.  The Holocaust may have been a German invention, but the participation and the guilt incorporated much of Europe as well.  The social theory of brutalization explains a great deal of how the killers came to be conditioned to accept, participate and even enjoy the daily murders, it does not however satisfy every question that may be raised. I would propose that a total understanding of murder on this scale may never be understood by the civilized world, it simply lies beyond what is comprehensible.<BR>This book damns the Einsatzgruppen with their own reports and letters home, including the infamous Jager report.  Men, women, and children were all shot or dumped indiscriminately into killing pits through out Eastern Europe, murder on a massive scale became simply a logistics problem to be solved.  Children were murdered in separate pits so that the adult corpses could be better arranged. Tens of thousands were shot in a single day, at a single site by a handful of executioners. The depth of the horror unleashed on the heals of Operation Barbarossa is inconceivable. The true value of this book is so that the future of millions of husbands, wives, grandparents, sons, and daughters should not have been lost in vain.  Read this text and you will never be able forget.	2002-09-10
US	51963791	R2L0ZU4X2HLIZ	0345446933	2776958	Recon Scout: Story of World War II	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A personal view from in front of the front lines	This book captured me merely by the title, my Grandfather was a Recon Scout (the 85th Cav. Rec. Sqd.) as well, but he didn't tell me as many stories of his time as Mr. Salter has done in this true autobiographical classic. This book begins with a wide eyed, ambitious and energetic young boy who follows his desires to be a cavalry hero and joins up with the Army. He passes on the air corp. voluntarily and ends up with the horse cav. He even trains to do mounted (on horseback) charges, something that seems hard to imagine today. He ends up in the 91st Cavalry Recon Sqd (Mechanized) and ends up in Africa, Sicily, and Italy. He promotes up to Corporal and turns down other promotions during the course of the war. He finishes the war as hardened and experienced as any soldier. <BR>This book captures the war from a first person view, Mr. Saltier engaged in everything from hand to hand combat, close quarters gun battles, running supplies under fire, rescuing wounded friends, and solo night patrols. As much as he excelled at these things and was truly a hero, these events left their scars on this young man.<BR>Mr. Saltier spars no one his criticism, not the lieutenant who shirked a night patrol, not himself. He lost a multitude of friends, killed the enemy in close quarters, endured artillery barrages, darned and sewed his own equipment, watched civilians bury their dead children, stood guard in a [house of ill repute], met Churchill. He fought and suffered a myriad of wounds (physical and psychological) for his country. This book is as close as I hope I ever get to combat. In war, every soldier loses something, Mr. Saltier has eloquently shared all of those losses so that the rest of us may gain from it.	2002-08-08
US	51963791	R1UX3PJKXFRMVH	096406118X	669340106	Tanks for the Memories: Expanded Second Edition	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The Voices of the Veterans	Mr. Elson has provided a labor of love and a transparent view into the experiences and the lives of the men who served in the 712th Tank Battalion.  Mr. Elson compiled an oral history of the veterans using their own words to describe their service and experiences. The interviews range from the initial training with the horse cavalry to VE day in Czechoslovakia. There is no overview or analysis or second guessing to go with the text, only chapter titles that group stories related to particular events or themes (for example \\"Blood and Guts\\" about encounters with Gen. Patton).  This is really like sitting down with your own grandfather and his friends and hearing them tell the tales of the second world war, only an audio version of the actual interviews would be more personable.  The stories range from the mundane (what it was like to see Patton) to the horrific (what it was like to be in a tank covered with the remains of a friend, maimed by an armor piercing round with the tank on fire). The variety of the GI's experiences is well documented in \\"Tanks for the Memories\\". <BR>Mr. Elson's father served and was wounded with the 712th so this topic is close to his heart, and it shows.  The tales told by these once young soldiers of battles, lost comrades, killing the enemy, being wounded, missing family and friends, and the fear, boredom, and deprivation of service put a very human touch on this view of WWII.  This is not history in the purest academic sense; this is a compilation of hero's tales. If you are interested in WWII, tank warfare, the GI in Europe, or the experiences of men doing their utmost for their comrades and country, read this book.	2002-08-05
US	51963791	R1NWLGS17360Q3	0684867184	867939499	Comrades: Brothers, Fathers, Heroes, Sons, Pals	Books	1	4	10	N	N	Ambrose's therapy gets documented	Dr. Ambrose crossed a line with this particular book. I think that he wrote with good intentions and does cover some interesting data (which is in his other books) about Lewis and Clark, Nixon, Eisenhower and others, however, the therapy sessions about his childhood and his brothers/father leaves much to be desired and should be included in a self-help section and not to be mixed up with Dr. Ambrose's more serious work.<br />This book is part autobiography, part psycho-sociological theory and part therapy session.  Dr. Ambrose, while certainly an interesting character, should have let someone else write this book after he is gone or should have saved the text about himself for his children. I listened to this on CD and found it laborious to get through. Hats off to the reviewers that actually read this monolog.  The fact that he sold this under the title &quot;Comrades&quot; so as to put a facade of value and a hint that it might be a scholarly work into relationships formed under fire is completely misleading. Although I appreciated his comments about friendship, a better title for this book might be &quot;me and my Dad and what I did on summer vacation&quot;.	2002-07-05
US	51963791	RT30UP7PNHYZV	0553577123	636860937	The Diary of a Young Girl: The Definitive Edition	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	One face among millions	The horror of this book comes through from Anne's day to day life, it is so much like anyone else's except of course that she is Jewish and in hiding.  Her feelings, thoughts, encounters, and dreams establish her humanity and connect with the reader across time.  All of this from a girl living under the constant fear of being found and exterminated.  The Holocaust is sometimes unimaginable because it was so massive, this book puts the tragedy on a personal level, introduces you to a young girl who will end her life in a Concentration Camp.<br />It is unfortunate that Anne couldn't have written while in the camp system and that those writings could have been found. It would have allowed the horror to be felt through familiar eyes. A personal introduction to the insanity that was Nazi Germany. One personal story to represent the millions left untold.<br />As the father of two daughters, I can not imagine how Otto Frank continued to live after the war, he lost everything. Anne's words are intimate and personable. Proof that a bright future was crushed, used up and dumped into a mass grave.	2002-06-14
US	51963791	R232DMY9BGET99	0921991592	890533885	Grenadiers	Books	4	16	19	N	Y	Historically worth it	I wonder if I read the same book as the other reviewers.  This book is fascinating since it was written by a highly decorated officer who served in some of the most important campaigns of WWII in France, Belgium, Greece, Poland, and the Soviet Union and an SS officer at that.  Meyer was clearly a man of action who was a capable and lucky leader of men.  There are several accounts where Meyer almost ends the war early as officers and drivers near him meet hot steel. This is not a detailed \\"how to command men\\" text other than it is clear that Meyer and the other SS junior officers lead from the front and it does not provide tactical or strategic overview of any particular battle (other than Meyer's opinion that the HitlerJugend (12th SS) should have been pulled from Caen).<BR>The language is a bit archaic, but not distractingly so. However, multiple passages include phases like \\"the motor was our weapon, I pushed our men faster and faster, we could not give the enemy a break\\" and \\"the brave and loyal <insert SS officer> fell to enemy fire while leading his men as an excellent soldier and an officer\\".  Meyer was certainly a warrior, a man of \\"blood and iron\\", he was not, however, a historian or a war reporter.<BR>The trial of Meyer is handled in what appears to be an honest fashion and Meyer does not seem to be a war criminal by this account.  He does not doubt that executions occurred when front line soldiers captured the enemy in tense, violent situations, but he is also honest enough to point out that it occurred on both the Allied and the Axis sides of the lines.  Meyer provides a convincing argument that the Waffen SS was a separate entity from the extermination camp system (if for no other reason than they were too busy fighting the armies of those who took up arms against Nazi Germany) <BR>This book is worth reading in the sense that it does provide insights into the mindset and the personality of one of the bravest of officers, a member of the SS, a man decorated by Hitler, a man who opposed the July assassination attempt, and yet a man who claims to have served for his love of Germany and not to have been aware of the extermination program or the aims of the criminal regime he served.	2002-03-25
US	51963791	R48CLDR0KRMQT	0891416358	418204794	Combat Team: The Captain's War: An Interactive Exercise in Company Level Command in Battle	Books	3	3	7	N	Y	Binary and limited	I read Antal's other book (Infantry Combat) a number of years ago and felt like I actually learned some valuable insights (albeit as an &quot;armchair&quot; expert).  This book however seemed too binary and simple.  I finished it to the &quot;best&quot; outcome in one pass and most of the potential for bad outcomes relied on a dice roll.  By binary, I mean that if you made the right choice (which seemed obvious) things went very well, if you made the wrong choice, you were dead within a couple of pages.  Overall, I would say that this text oversimplifies the decision making process in combat too greatly by limiting the number of choices and with the abundance of information available.  The best plans are truly simple (overly complicated plans almost never work), but if you've read anything about armor tactics, this book isn't worth much for educational value.  There is no real information quandary and the fog of war seems very thin in this text.  I would expect that any commander would make the right decisions in these situations, thus the limited value of this book.  It would seem obvious that sometimes in combat, there is no perfect solution with an ideal outcome, just a choice about how to deal with a deadly situation in the best possible way.<BR>That being said, I did enjoy reading this text and it was a nice entry-level exam that, in my own mind, validated what I felt I understood about armored combat.	2002-03-25
US	51963791	R2P2L9I2JGK7NO	0671577735	52503584	The Butcher's Bill	Books	3	0	2	N	Y	passes the time	This was the first David Drake book I read and I may give one of his complete novels a look.  This book was ok.  It didn't capture me with either the military fiction or the character development.  It seemed like a passable way to spend some time when there was nothing more pressing to read. Of course, I am judging novel type character development on a collection of short stories...but it seemed flat.  It certainly didn't compare to Heinlein's &quot;Starship Troopers&quot; (The book, not that wretched movie), or to Card's &quot;Ender's Game&quot;.<BR>I've heard that Drake's books are pretty good, it maybe that this compilation of short stories doesn't do his work justice.  If you're interested in this genre, I'd start somewhere else to get something really captivating.	2002-03-12
US	51963791	R3GZ02Y64ZWN7G	0140284583	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege: 1942-1943	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Readable, precise, and informative	An event as pinnacle as the battle of Stalingrad deserves a book like this.  This prose is easy to read and contains the relevant facts to introduce and to grasp the immensity of this event on the Volga!  Beevor's text is not as comprehensive of a review as the work by Erickson but it is also much easier to read because of that fact.  A comprehensive understanding of the Ost Front is not necessary to understand this text.  It does contain a rich amount of military fact (units, dates, casualty estimates, etc) without burying the reader in lists of division, regiment, and company types of designations.  Beevor also helps to illuminate the many personalities that are inexorably linked to the event from Hitler, Paulus, Manstein, to Zhukov, Krushchev and Stalin.  In spite of this, the telling of the story of the common soldier (from both sides) and the immense suffering of all those involved is not shirked.  Beevor doesn't delve into too many \\"what ifs\\" except for a brief discussion regarding the potential fates of 6th Army and 4th Panzer Army if they had been allowed to retire much earlier in the battle. <BR> The best part of this text is the understanding of the effect on the Wehrmacht and on the Red Army during and after this battle.  This showed the Soviets that the Germans could be dealt a tremendous blow and it showed the Germans (except for Hitler) the tenacity and dedication that the Red Army could force from its soldiers.  This (in my opinion) was the first time the Germans suffered a major defeat due to the loss of control from the Prussian officers to an Austrian Corporal, it would not be the last.<BR> Some of the amazing facts are included in this text - more Russian \\"Hiwis\\" were with 6th army than Italians and Romanians combined.  The German bread ration was reduced to 100 grams a day near the end.  Etc.  If you saw \\"Enemy at the Gates\\", read this book for the real story of the battle.  The spirit of this battle is summarized well in the \\"remains of a Russian and German soldier discovered buried together after they had bayoneted one another to death\\".  Remains are still found with each excavation project in this city.	2002-02-08
US	51963791	R2N3O1XXBT0CND	2908182815	966600234	TIGER I: On the Eastern Front	Books	4	15	15	N	N	More for Modelers - unique photo's however.	This book and its companion (Tiger 1 on the Western Front), are excellent compilations of photographs of the dreaded Tiger 1 tank (PzVI). That being said, the titles should read \\"A modelers guide to the Tiger 1 on the...\\" Overall, I enjoyed these books because you could read them in about 1 hour, and then spend the time pouring over the photos with a magnifying glass. There are some fantastic shots of the Tigers in action. Unfortunately, there is not much in the way of military information, armament details, AAR's or other. Excellent book, but I'd have been much happier if it had been about [price] cheaper.<br />For the true Tiger die hard, skip these and put your money towards \\"Tigers in Action\\"	2002-02-01
US	51963791	R2QCJJUKNCOTC8	0679772685	810809476	Hitler's Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans and the Holocaust	Books	4	9	18	N	N	A slightly flawed portrait of darkness -	The accounts of brutality and cruelty visited upon the Jews are well presented and well documented in Goldhagen's book.  This book is not for the weak of heart or the squeamish and it often brought tears to my eyes to imagine the horror and terror experienced by the victims.  That the Nazi war machine and its regime of terror helped perpetrate these acts is undeniable.<BR>This book is definitely worth reading if you are a student of the Second World War or of the Nazi Period in German History. It captures the inhumane brutality that occurred as the Third Reich rose and fell.  Unfortunately, the sociological arguments presented as conclusions are weak and don't reveal much into the nature of anti-Semitism that existed in or outside of Germany.  This book presents the problem of anti-Semitism in the 1850-1945 period as almost a strictly German phenomena which it most certainly was not.  Confounding factors, such as the effect of the Hitler's dictatorship and mass media, are practically ignored in this study and the end conclusion seems to be simply that the German people were poised on the brink of an anti-Semitic rage that Hitler simply let loose.  Krystalnacht is presented as evidence and Goebbals' accounts of the event are accepted as factual (ignoring the many plainclothes SA that took part in creating the event).  Anti-Semitism in other countries is also discounted as unimportant, which is an interesting observation.  The conclusion that since the police battalions that were utilized to conduct mass-murder were made of people of ordinary background, then all people of ordinary background could have conducted the mass-murder is interesting, horrifying, but very hard to accept as factual.  No discussion of the psychology of the individuals who were police at the time is included.  Certainly, just because an individual was raised on a farm and then joined an institution that committed mass-murder doesn't prove that all farmers are guilty?<BR>Again, this book is definitely worth reading.  It paints a vivid picture of the darkest side of humanity - just make your own conclusions.	2002-01-31
US	51963791	RWL38ZZ13CFA3	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent writing of an excellent story	I read this book in 4 sittings, it is compelling, captivating and extraordinary. This story could only have been forgotten during the turmoil of WWII. This story is not only fascinating but phenomenally well written - proof: my wife is reading this book. <br />Reading this book after reading &quot;War without Mercy&quot; and you begin to understand and grasp the cultural rift that existed between the Allies and the Japanese. These two cultures fought one of the most vicious conflicts ever. Not even the Russian-German conflict found so many units and soldiers holding out to the very last man battle after battle, island after island. Reading of the treatment of the survivors of the Bataan Death march creates feelings of confusion and animosity similar to those that arise when one reads of the Holocaust. It is hardly comprehensible that human beings can do these things to each other on the field of combat, much less to unarmed prisoners.<br />Read this book, it is a great story and great literature. Mr. Sides out did himself with this one.	2002-01-09
US	51963791	R69IJMRL7ZQ7W	0304351997	614890686	Cassell Military Classics: Das Reich: The Military Role of the 2nd SS Division	Books	1	14	35	N	Y	Unfortunate and Unnecessary	The history of the Second World War is littered with accounts based on propaganda or accounts selectively chosen to support a propagandist view point. The literature regarding the Waffen-SS is certainly prone to these flaws and in my opinion, Das Reich doesn't add much to the valuable history. This isn't to say that the accounts contained in this book didn't happen, just to say that the author chose portions of history and quotes from soldiers to support the thesis that the 2nd SS Division were really just a bunch of great soldiers and compassionate individuals.<BR>Part of the strength and weakness of this book is that it is based on interviews so the combat stories are gripping and terrifying, but it does not lend an honest view into the Divisions history. There are also very few references to check the &quot;facts&quot; presented in this book.<BR>The 2nd SS was not an Einsatz-commando and was a combat unit, however, I find it hard to believe that the tip of Hitler's ideological spear that was thrust into the Soviet Union spent their off hours handing out bread and soup to Russian children. These men were given ideological training as well as combat training, they knew they were fighting a war of destruction such as has never been fought before. There is not even an account of enemy troops trying to surrender being killed, which has happened in every army in the history of the world. While I am not naive enough to believe that the SS was 100% filled with criminals either, this text seems revisionist. The truth deserves to be uncovered and this book does very little to honestly investigate the history of the Das Reich. There are much better texts available on the SS.	2002-01-02
US	51963791	R35RQEZO7PC2WE	1574882864	329455826	The Forgotten Soldier	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Beyond good and evil	This text details the life of a soldier at war.  This particular soldier is French, but fighting for the Wehrmacht on the Ost front.  His nationality is almost meaningless in the raging conflict he is involved with and I think his experience is universally applicable to soldiers on any front. <BR>This book is well written, compelling, dramatic and painful.<br />Everyone should read this book, pacifists or soldiers, young or old. The misery and the human cost of war fly from these pages like an artillery barrage.	2001-12-07
US	51963791	R2WW63Y67VZ4DV	2913903134	945563013	Tiger I on the Western Front	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	Book for modelers only!	This book and its companion (Tiger 1 on the Eastern Front), are excellent compilations of photographs of the dreaded Tiger 1 tank (PzVI).  That being said, the titles should read \\"A modelers guide to the Tiger 1 on the...\\"  Overall, I enjoyed these books because you could read them in about 1 hour, and then spend the time pouring over the photos with a magnifying glass.  There are some fantastic shots of the Tigers in action.  Unfortunately, there is not much in the way of military information, armament details, AAR's or other.  Excellent book, but I'd have been much happier if it had been about [price] cheaper.<br />For the true Tiger die hard, skip these and put your money towards \\"Tigers in Action\\"	2001-09-11
US	51963791	R19CPGYL4KX2Q3	2913903134	945563013	Tiger I on the Western Front	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Book for modelers only!	This book and its companion (Tiger 1 on the Eastern Front), are excellent compilations of photographs of the dreaded Tiger 1 tank (PzVI).  That being said, the titles should read &quot;A modelers guide to the Tiger 1 on the...&quot;  Overall, I enjoyed these books because you could read them in about 1 hour, and then spend the time pouring over the photos with a magnifying glass.  There are some fantastic shots of the Tigers in action.  Unfortunately, there is not much in the way of military information, armament details, AAR's or other.  Excellent book, but I'd have been much happier if it had been about $10 cheaper.<br />For the true Tiger die hard, skip these and put your money towards &quot;Tigers in Action&quot;	2001-09-11
US	51963791	RHE7A0MT2E53R	1580970559	846546894	Battle Of Hurtgen Forest (West Wall)	Books	5	16	24	N	N	SHAEF asleep in the Death Factory	The battle of the Hurtgen Forest has been long ignored by historians and the armed forces because it was a defeat of the first order for the United States.  The infantry that fought there called it the Death Factory.  Whiting's book delves into the details of the battle itself and the decisions that fed so many young men into a meat grinder.  The allied (particularly the American) high command was ignorant of the conditions at the Front and willingly sacrificed the advantages of air power, armored mobility, artillery superiority (the German defenders were well bunkered) and resorted to the bloodiest of methods, the infantry assault through dense vegetation.  Whiting's book provides details from the front line troops to underscore the horrid conditions, battle statistics to emphasis the slaughter that was occurring, and accounts of what the top brass was doing simultaneously.  The argument is sufficient to convince me that SHAEF was driving with its eyes closed.  The butcher's bill ran higher and higher, the Generals thought surely the Germans would break at any time.  Tactical and strategic thinking was thrown aside in favor of a &quot;kill Germans where ever you find them&quot; philosophy. <br />The American Generals were caught up in their own glorification and didn't consider the possibility that they could be making a mistake, if enough man power was committed, the Wehrmacht and Field Marshal Model would break.  The Germans couldn't understand why the Americans were attacking in such force through the forest but were more than happy to deal with the unfortunate attackers slogging unprotected through the dense woods.  It became personal to the American Command, their reputation and the reputation of the Army were at stake.  A price was even put on Field Marshal Model's head, how dare he slow up the glorious Americans and their Generals.   Interestingly enough, 30 odd years later, the junior officers who survived the Hurtgen fed young men into the meat grinder known as Vietnam where the logic of &quot;body counts&quot; reappeared.<br />The Anglo-American allies certainly had their shining moments in the second world war, they also had their low points.  The Battle of the Bulge has long been studied as the point where SHAEF was caught asleep but still managed to &quot;win&quot;.  The battle of the Hurtgen forest was where they dozed off.  Sadly they were counting divisions of young men that they sent into Death Factory as they slept.	2001-08-08
US	51963791	R3AFKNZ00RRI92	0300078129	35904091	1: The Road to Stalingrad: Stalin`s War with Germany, Volume One	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	Political overview	This book is more of a study of Stalin and his fight to survive the immense crisis that resulted from Germany's invasion and lasted 4 long years. This book details who was in charge of what armies, thier political fate and affiliations and how long they remained in charge until scapegoated. This book does provide great insight into the 1930's purges of the Soviet military and wonderfully details the rush to production that the Soviet Union had to undergo to survive. But it does not provide a sense of size in regards to the fighting nor does it provide many details except when certain areas were lost or retaken, who was in command, and maybe how many tanks, guns, and men were available at the beginning of the fight. No battle casualties are provided, so if division has 800 men at the end of the fight, was it full strength at the beginning? By the end of this book, you'll tire of seeing unit designations, since they are virtually meaningless in the context of the text.<br />Overall, a wonder study of the way Stalin managed and fought the war from the Kremlin. Committees, organizations and offices springing from nowhere only to vanish again as Stalin maintained his grasp on the Soviet Union. This is not a great book in regards to the maturation of the Red Army strategies, equipment or tactics as it seems to only deal with these topics in a precursory way.	2001-07-10
US	51963791	R31BRH968OAFYI	0804100039	815959810	If You Survive: From Normandy to the Battle of the Bulge to the End of World War II, One American Officer's Riveting True Story	Books	4	13	16	N	N	8 months in the inferno that was the ETO	Let me start by saying this is a great book and a very easy read. I only gave this book 4 stars because it is not the best in this particular genre.  I personally like Donald Burgett's, Russell McLogan's and  Raymond Ganter's books better.  I think my statement is based purely on personallity and writing style.  Mr. Wilson certainly saw some of the most brutal of the combat in the ETO and the 4th infantry division was in for the long haul.  <br />You will not be disappointed in this book if you enjoy first person accounts of the Second World War.  If anything, you'll feel incredulous that Mr. Wilson survived the events he describes and alas, many of his friends and comrades did not.  His combat record extends from the St. Lo break out, through France, into Germany (twice).  He survived Normandy, France, the Hurtgen, and the Bulge.  Mr. Wilson was incredibly lucky, incredibly brave and incredibly kind to share his experiences.<br />This book does present a good view from the ground of combat in Europe.  The style of Mr. Wilson's writing doesn't convey the powerful emotions contained in some other works, and it may simply be there is no easy way to describe what he saw and did.	2001-06-20
US	51963791	R29555GHOT8938	0691008531	279706246	Soldiers of Destruction	Books	5	58	64	N	N	Academically honest insight in to the Totenkopf and Eicke	Dr. Syndor presents us with what appears to be an academically honest, truthful account of the development of the SS Totenkopf division.  He traces its indisputable origins from the concentration camp system into an elite Waffen SS combat Division.  <br />    Syndor captures the facts regarding the effect that Theodor Eicke had on creating the division from his hand picked staffs in the concentration system.  Thus creating a combat division led and manned by individuals already hardened to cruelty to the &quot;enemy behind the wire&quot;.  Syndor presents a detailed account of Eicke's rise through the concentration camp system, his immense political connections, the origins of the Totenkopf division under Eicke's guidance. <br />     The author is clearly impressed by the combat performance of the Waffen SS and the Totenkopf division in particular; however, he presents facts and adequate footnotes for anyone to investigate.  The truth speaks for itself, the Waffen SS, with the esprit of the troops and the political indoctrination, were elite combat units.  They fought at times to the last man and withstood hardships and casualty rates beyond what most other troops would endure.  They also committed acts that carried the political will of the Fuhrer and the Reichsfuhrer SS to the occupied territories and the front. <br />    This is NOT an apologist's book about the Waffen SS, nor does it state that every SS trooper was a criminal.  The truth, as usual, is somewhere in between. It does paint the SS and the Waffen SS as the criminal organizations that they were.  It also details the combat performance of this elite combat unit.  The last half of the book is sketchier on details of the Totenkopf's combat records, but this was due to the loss of many of those detailed records to the war waged upon Germany.<br />   This is an excellent book, my only criticism is that it does not have enough photo's and statistics (specifically, after action reports).	2001-06-05
US	51963791	R21OKDWBWHX1AZ	0394751728	442795076	War Without Mercy: Race and Power in the Pacific War	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Xenophobia induced attitudes	This book details the history that led up to the allied war with Japan, both the actions that the allies (US) and the Japanese took that led to the Day of Infamy.  This book provides insite to racism on both sides of the Pacific and offers apologies to no one!  Both cultures projected their darkest fears and stereotypes on the other and utilized every propaganda tool at their disposal to incite nation wide mobilization.<br />The illustrations and propaganda pieces are very informative and interesting.  It is gripping to read about the dehumanizing actions that took place on both sides (mailing enemy heads home to girlfriends, etc).  How the &quot;no surrender, no prisoners&quot; attitudes were intertwined with government policy, cultural identity and the peculiarities of fighting on small islands where retreat may not have been an option.<br />As an American, I have to admit, my attitudes toward the Imperial Japanese government are not very forgiving.  But I think this book should be read in schools on both sides of the Pacific incase we all forget what was done.  Neither side comes out as completely just, but I have to admit, the Japanese actions in Manila, Nanking to mention but two make me wonder why they haven't gotten the critical attention that formations of the Nazi SS have had.  Surely the war in China was no less a war against Untermensh than Barbarossa!<br />My only criticism about this book is that it reads a little dryly.  It took some dedication to finish, but was well worth it.	2001-05-17
US	51963791	R2UA5OM7URFUTZ	0440236304	35995058	Currahee!: A Screaming Eagle at Normandy	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Bordering on the unreal!	I read this book in a 4 hour layover recently.  It is thrilling, it is terrifying, it is bloody, it is the invasion of Normandy through the eyes of a paratrooper.  This book is as much a look into the battle as it is a glimpse into the mind of a young man superbly trained to be a remorseless killer, a soldier's soldier.<br />Probably the most terrifying moment in the book for me was when Mr. Burgett's MG loader took a round in the head with a &quot;plock&quot; sound. The emotional distance Mr. Burgett expresses over the death of his comrade (friend) is astonishing. The general acceptance of death as an inevitable part of combat, a truly casual acceptance of it are never expressed but clearly evident. This is no coincidence since you've already read about Mr. Burgett's training to become an elite paratrooper. There are bayonet charges, paratroops dying in droves, firefights at the distance of mere yards, this book captures the unreality of what a combatant experiences and unleashes one upon the another.<br />This book is a quick and easy read that you'll never forget.	2001-05-11
US	51963791	R1V9FHVRARWDT6	0812575717	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Impressive and captivating retelling of the game	I picked this book up in hopes of regaining the sensation I experienced when I read Ender's game, and although you do know the end of the story this time through, it is still captivating.<br />Bean is not a &quot;surrogate Ender&quot;, in fact the story feels very differently when told from his perspective.  I really enjoyed the insights into the characters when seen from Bean's perspective.<br />Bean is at times better and worse than Ender and in the end, he is not as good of a General.  He may have a higher IQ than even the vaunted Ender Wiggen, but he does not have the leadership, the intuition and the guts that Ender has.  Bottom line, Bean is a Longstreet not a Lee.<br />A fascinating tale and very much worth the time and the energy to read.  I found it a wonderful complement to Ender's Game and not simply a way for Card to cash in on the same story twice.	2001-04-27
US	51963791	R1EJRYCOIF1FSN	0140235426	913684934	Six Armies in Normandy: From D-Day to the Liberation of Paris; June 6 - Aug. 5, 1944; Revised	Books	4	17	21	N	Y	Keegan shows his heritage	Keegan is one of my favorite authors and his work normally amazes and astounds me and certainly portions of this book live up to that praise.  Keegan details the build up and eventual landing that would be known as D-Day.  Casualties and information is heavily stacked toward the British and Canadian beaches. Utah beach is covered in some detail as is the Airborne landing (especially the 101st).  Omaha beach is given about a paragraph.  I assume Keegan is trying to avoid duplication of the numerous other sources about bloody Omaha, but his apparent lack of interest deserves an explanation, which is not provided in the text.  <br />The details regarding the Polish 2nd Armored division are excellent and this is the first detailed account I've read regarding their valiant stands. The Canadian contribution is also detailed very well.  The German officer corps is treated with respect as able opponents.  Crimes committed by the 12th SS against the Canadians are highlighted.<br /> The French are treated pretty harshly and in my opinion fairly.  LeClerc's run to Paris was a tactical error that was heavily influenced by politics not strategy that SHAEF intended to simply encircle.  The French enjoyed a relatively unharmed capital due to their quick surrender and Hitler's decision to defend Normandy (and the subsequent collapse of the Western front).  <br />My big problem with this book (and the reason for 4 stars instead of 5) is Keegan's handling of Montgomery.  Keegan clearly thinks highly of Montgomery and his tactics.  This clearly disagrees with everything else I've read or studied.  &quot;Monty's&quot; victory over the Afrika Corp which won him fame was predominately due to supply limitations on Rommel's part and failure of the Wehrmacht's encription.  XXX Corps advance on a single tank front on an exposed roadway during Operation Market-Garden is another clear example of his poor understanding of the combat particular to WWII in my opinion. Montgomery is also given credit for pinning down the Panzer divisions near Caen in Normandy so the Americans could advance.  IF anything, this was due to the Wehrmacht's underestimation of the American army and not an accomplishment of Montgomery's. <br />All in all, a great book, but not one of Keegan's best.	2001-03-26
US	51963791	REAQDU43OVYU3	0966344405	885488877	Boy Soldier: Coming of Age During World War II	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Phenomenal account of a life caught up in the whirlwind!	I had the honor of meeting Mr. McLogan at a book signing where his reading honestly convinced me to buy this book. I now cherish the signed copy I own. This book is exceptionally well written which honestly surprised me, Mr. McLogan is an engineer by trade (so am I). The writing is dynamic, captivating, vivid and sensory. This is an exceptional autobiography combining memories and official documents. This is a phenomenally written book about the life of a young man caught up in the turbulent 40's. That being said, this is not a war book, this is a book about a man's life. Mr. McLogan does not dwell on the time he spent in combat, but does cover that period as well. This book details his life before he was drafted, what training and traveling with the army was like, his wounding, recovery, and as an occupational soldier in Korea after the war and finally going home again. Mr. McLogan does not try to make himself a hero, and in my opinion, he doesn't have to, he simply is.<BR>I have found no better written personal account of a young American's life during the war. This book took my breath away literally; especially the parts where the author reminisces about walking hand in hand with a high school sweetheart while sitting in a foxhole in the Philippines. Mr. McLogan was lucky enough to survive the ordeal and went on to be truly one of the heroes I have always looked up to. Not a war monger or a violent person, but simply a young man who answered his countries call, did his duty, stood his ground and came back and built a life for himself. I only wish my grandfather had written this book!	2001-03-12
US	51963791	RKFYUOWOKOW1T	076030937X	781757642	SS Steel Storm: Waffen-SS Panzer Battles on the Eastern Front, 1943-1945	Books	4	32	34	N	Y	Excellent photo history	This book presents many excellent photos of the Waffen-SS on the Eastern Front.  The politics of the SS are generally handled lightly but they are not ignored, especially after the SS retakes a couple of cities and suppresses Partisan groups.  <br />This book does an excellent job of detailing the where and how and starts by claiming that the SS were not given preferential treatment for equipment to achieve the combat performance that they obtained.  At two different points, it then states that certain high ranking Nazi's saw to the refitting of their particular pet groups (esp. the Totenkoph division).<br />The tactical details are a little light, the maps do present a general &quot;who was where&quot; feel to the battles, but the map details are few.  The accounts of Kursk could be given more space in my opinion.<br />HOWEVER, this book does an excellent job of explaining the authors opinion of why the Waffen SS units were elite fighting groups and the disproportionate effect they had on the monstrous battles that raged.  Some of the details are hard to believe if it weren't for the fact that we know how numerous the Russian casualties were.  Truly, the Nazi war machine was crushed by waves of human flesh and poorly trained tankers in the vast sea of the Russian Steppe!<br />Two details that amazed me were how much Waffen-SS tactical plans sounded like current doctrine for much of the armored community and how much Hitler's micromanaging and countermanding his generals aided the collapse of the Reich he had assembled.  The effect was staggering, especially at Kursk, arguably the pinnacle battle of the ETO!	2001-02-26
US	51963791	R2OG7165J6WLUE	1881018113	312856722	Mathematical Methods	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Spectacular for learning advanced mathematics	This is a tremendous book for those of us who struggle with mathematics.  It makes complex topics feel like a simple string of easy steps.  This book is also a great reference; mine is severely dog-eared and has tabs at all the sections that I use often.  My friends who are (in my opinion) expert mathematicians don't care for this book as much as I do, but for the &quot;expert novice&quot; like myself, I find this book invaluable.<br />One of the topics in this book that I find very useful is the numerical methods section.  Excellent for a reference when reading and reviewing numerical data or when generating simple code.	2001-02-26
US	51963791	RGS8K9QHDTITI	0813109434	898317423	Frontsoldaten: The German Soldier in World War II	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	Mud, blood and shattered dreams	Mr. Fritz does a remarkable job of painting a picture of the &quot;average&quot; German infantry soldier or Landser by pulling quotes from diaries, letters and interviews.  The young men who marched to war under the swastika were motivated, well trained and indeed raised to carry the ideology of the Reich to their enemies.  This book does not paint a glorious picture of the Germans, nor does it make the average soldier look like a war criminal.  Nor does it glorify war and destruction.<br />Some of the quotes from the front are remarkably poignant and insightful, especially when one considers the conditions under which they were written and by young men besides.  There are two reasons that I did not give this book 5 stars, they are: No photographs, even simple photographs to put faces with the voices in this book would have been incredibly powerful.  The photo on the cover of the book is of an SS troop (you can see the edge of the emblem under the knife hilt), which Mr. Fritz claims is different than the average Landser. Two many quotes from the same people are recycled.  Mr. Fritz uses some of the arguably better quotes 2 or 3 times in the text.  With as many Landsers as were involved in the war, it seems that other voices could have been added to this text to make the points necessary.  Guy Sajer is quoted many times, which is a shame since he already has a published voice, so many others do not.<br />This book also helps to understand how so many fell under the spell of Hitler, when viewed from below, so many of the policies of the Nazi's seem to make sense.  Especially when the subjects are immersed in the reams of propaganda generated by the regime.  It is easy to see why these young men, raised in the Hitler Youth, the socialist work force, and finally the Wehrmacht believed what they were told, especially after the devastation and poverty visited upon Germany after WWI. <br />This book is well worth the time.  Reading it made me very happy to be living in a relatively peaceful era far, far removed from the battlefield.	2001-01-30
US	51963791	RJAFP5PSLHOYC	0201500647	417382030	The Feynman Lectures on Physics: Commemorative Issue, Three Volume Set	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This book will keep the light bulb turning on	Feynman has a way of taking a subject you thought you knew, shaking your perspective and illuminating the topic from an angle you never even considered.  I am within a year of picking up my Ph.D. and I found parts of this book required several rereads, but not because they are technically difficult (which some of it is), but because conceptually it is different than anything I've ever seen before.  Feynman wasn't just smarter than most individuals, he didn't even think in the same fashion.<br />The thought experiments are phenomenal (the rachet and pawl for the second law of thermo is my favorite) and the material is dense and complete. It is hard to believe that this material was delivered in an hour lecture, there seems to just be too much to grasp that quickly.<br />The only thing that would make it better would be some problems and solutions.  Other than that, it is FLAWLESS.  Even the binding and appearance of this book is like art.	2001-01-17
US	51963791	R2SOPR7X6FMQQX	0891416994	974439510	The Bloody Forest: The Battle for the Huertgen, September 1944 - January 1945	Books	4	22	22	N	Y	Great but not quite superb	While this book did captivate me, especially on a personal level, my grandfather fought in the Huertegen, I can't bring myself to give it 5 stars.  It is certainly well written, and enjoyable, but the first hand accounts are broken and choppy and in my opinion, Astor should have given the veterans more space.       <br />Astor's book does convey a forboding feeling for the darkness and terror of the forest and attempts to provide the German perspective as well for completeness.  The language just didn't feel as rich as some other books (even Astor's own &quot;A Blood Dimmed Tide&quot;) and came across as very flat even when describing horrific details and events.     <br />The maps provided were limited and not of much use.  The photographs also seemed very limited and didn't aid the text. It is hard to believe that there aren't better photographs from this campaign.  Even modern photographs of the Huertegen would have been more instructive than some of the photo's included.     <br />The Huertegen campaign was a horrible, bloody affair that revealed poor strategic decision making coming from SHAEF and it has not recieved much scholarly attention and for that we should thank Astor. This text is well worth the read, but it is not the definitive book on the campaign.	2001-01-16
US	51963791	R27092H89A4AZO	068485628X	996959617	The Victors: Eisenhower and His Boys: The Men of World War II	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Good intro, not for the well read however!	Ambrose squeaked this one out in my opinion.  It is essentially a cut and paste compilation of &quot;Citizen Soldiers&quot; and &quot;Eisenhower&quot; and &quot;Band of Brothers&quot;.  If this is your first Ambrose book, you will find it enjoyable.  If this is the ONLY book you read about WWII, it is a fair choice, however, if you have read any of Ambroses other work, then I wouldn't bother.<br />Ambrose clearly has fallen under Ike's cult of personality, and although Ike was a great politician and a compassionate man, he was not a master strategist and many of his decisions cost unnecessary lives in my opinion.  <br />This book trys to capture the sweep of the US involvement in W.W.II. European Theater in one text of similar length to Ambrose's other works.  It may be that books thicker than this don't sell well and that is why Ambrose only included the limited material that he did because this book leaves you wanting.  It is rich in details about details, but misses other large happenings.  In my opinion, it is better to read &quot;D-Day&quot;, &quot;Citizen Soldiers&quot;, &quot;Band of Brothers&quot; and &quot;A Bridge too Far&quot; and to skip this book altogether.	2000-12-28
US	51963791	R28MHW796WBDL0	0393316041	33679552	Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman! (Adventures of a Curious Character)	Books	5	18	20	N	Y	Genius and the ordinary man	This book makes you realize all at once that &quot;even Dick Feynman puts his pants on one leg at a time&quot;, unless of course he has figured out a different way to do it.  This book captures the oddity and the humanity of one of the great minds of our century.<br />From his first scientific presentation in a room containing the Who's Who of physics to the death of his first wife at a young age, this book makes you feel as if you know Feynman.<br />This book is not only for physicists, it is for people curious about the life and times of a thoughtful man or just looking for a good, entertaining read.  It is light hearted, fun, quickwitted and hilarious.  I found my self laughing out loud and scratching my head all at the same time.  It is also written in many short chapters, which makes it an easy read.  Perfect for a vacation or a night stand!	2000-12-20
US	51963791	R28M5Y56BX0VGD	0394746228	152594585	The Civil War: A Narrative: Volume 3: Red River to Appomattox (Vintage Civil War Library)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	News from the Front	Shelby Foote takes the Civil War and dissects its every twist and turn in a writing style that feels as if your hearing news from the front in an ongoing war. That is a good thing since these three volumes are very hefty. This book is not for the mildly curious, you will get bored and overwhelmed by the dates, names and places. But to military history, history, or civil war buffs, it is as detailed and factual as you could want. This is truly a thesis of study on the war between the states.<br />The book handles personalities of both individuals and cultures and their effects on the war. The reading can be slow going at times as armies march toward each other and the order of battle becomes established with the commanders names and stations, but the battle details seem incredibly well researched and the accounts of individual soldiers/officers bring home the reality of this conflict.<br />This book is well worth the effort to read, it imparts a sense of what the United States has survived and clarifies many historical perceptions of the era and the people involved in this massive conflict. My only suggestion, keep a note pad at your elbow as you read this book, it is slow going and you'll need to take notes about commanders and places to keep it all straight in your head.	2000-12-19
US	51963791	R1RB7ZXAV27TYB	0520071662	342281020	Alexander of Macedon 356-323 B.C.: A Historical Biography	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Exciting, well documented, educational account!	Green's work on Alexander, begins with the legends about his conception, the family and culture he was born into, his early education (I learned alot here about how small the Greek world was in relation to the great minds of the era), his rise to power, the intrigue, and ultimately the military genius of such a young man.<br />Green does an excellent job of explaining what is known as fact, what is conjecture and what the competing opinions are.  He takes historical data, legends and myths and weaves them into a comprehensive study of a historical Alexander who at times was bigger than even his legends and at times was much smaller.  Green provides enough information to comprehend the world in which Alexander lived, which makes understanding the man easier.<br />It is truly amazing to read about these events so long ago in such a refreshing style.  It amazed me at times how much Alexander's campaigns sounded like accounts of the U.S. Civil war or other &quot;recent&quot; military events.  Alexander and Green's masterful study of the man are both GREAT!	2000-12-14
US	51963791	RXHF73O8Q54T2	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	5	78	83	N	N	A readable text book!	Keegan does it well!  This book illuminates the war to end all wars and captures the sweep of the first global conflict.  Keegan details the primary causes and the primary instigators of the conflict.  You really come to understand how about 15 individuals and a lot of national pride led to the deaths of millions.  While not a truly &quot;modern&quot; war, many of the instruments of death were well hoaned (e.g. the rifle, the machine gun and artillery).  This book describes the horror of trench warfare, details the attacks and defenses, the general's attempts to break the stalemate, the mathematics of attrition, the political motivations, and most importantly, the effect on nations that established the groundwork for the second world war.  No modern history, military history, or the 20th century history collection is complete with out a text such as this! Keegans book is dense and detailed, well researched, and yet understandable and a pleasure to read!	2000-12-13
US	51963791	R3PPHOIZOTV8MN	089141536X	796325758	Infantry Combat: The Rifle Platoon: An Interactive Exercise in Small-Unit Tactics and Leadership	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Interactive learning with randomness!	Antal's book is an excellent way to pick up many of the basics of infantry combat with out having to risk getting your self or your friends killed!  This book rewards sound decision making and punishes mistakes brutally.  The tactical details seem precise, comprehensive and accurate.  The addition of randomness proves that even good decisions can go wrong (Antal adds this with dice rolls determining the result of some decisions).  This drives home the fact that even great soldiers can be in the wrong place at the right time and earn a purple heart. The book is fast paced, easy to read and fun.  My only critisim is that it lacked a little detail (especially with regard to specific weapon deployment).  Over all, a great read!	2000-12-13
US	51963791	R1NV2KD6O3PVWJ	0804116059	103964996	Roll Me Over: An Infantryman's World War II (Presidio War Classic. World War II)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Reality of the troops	Ganttner pieces this book together from notes and personal memory after the war.  It is as disjointed and at times confusing as it must have really have been.  The reality of war, the sensation of killing another human being, the shock of being caught in an explosion, the confusion, the loneliness.  Gantter captures these details very well and his writting style is simple and descriptive.  One of the best first person accounts I've read.  Gives a better sense of continuity of an individual soldier than an Ambrose book, including the boredom of being a soldier at times.  Gantter doesn't tout himself a hero, which makes the times and events he writes about even more heroic!	2000-12-13
US	51963791	R39AC02IW8V28	0394742885	400767263	Iwo Jima: Legacy of Valor	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Fighting on the Moon	This book is an excellent mix of personal accounts tied in with details of the campaign as a whole.  The volcanic island had to be one of the most unforgiving, unplesant, nasty places in the world to fight for. The book details the Army and the Army-Air Force's plans for the island and why the Japanese fought so hard to keep it.  This is the first I've read about the Pacific, and I finished this book in 2 days.  The ETO always draws me because I had relatives there, but I think that the cruelty and ferocity in the Pacific made that campaign a different kind of war.  Combine the reading of this book with War Without Mercy and I think it shows as clear a picture of the combat as you can get without actually having been there.	2000-11-21
US	51963791	R1GAN72653WDU2	0140048979	773818200	The Face of Battle: A Study of Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Timeless description	Keegan combines a scholarly insight and a narrative skill to make this one of the best texts on warfare ever written.  While I disagree with some of his final conclusions, he lays out the facts that have and have not changed  about battle and what it does to the participants.  The analysis of the  soldiers' experience in the three battles analyzed are impeccable.  This  book is a must have for any military science collection, and should be  enjoyed if read by novice or professional.	1999-10-22
US	51963791	R3FKGXQNR4I8QB	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Duck, Move and Pray!	The &quot;play by play&quot; accounts and real dialog make this a terrifing account of real combat.  At once I wanted to be a Ranger or a &quot;D-boy&quot; and just as quickly, I was really glad to be in my living  room!  I found it a little disconcerting that the &quot;D-boys&quot; really  taught the Rangers a lot that I felt they probably should have known.  The  Rangers really weren't as elite as I thought they were (but they still did  a damn fine job). If we can get real special effects like in S.P.Ryan, this  movie could be incredible. Hey, by the way, are the &quot;sammies&quot;  nuts?  I couldn't believe thier casualty rate and thier tactics.	1999-06-23
US	51963791	R1P1FH56R9T6VY	1885119410	964144534	The Grim Reaper : Machine-Guns and Machine-Gunners in Action	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Insiteful and Astounding and Objective review	The development of the machinegun and its effects on world politics, colonialization and warfare are incredibly well reviewed by Ford.  This is not a field manual about how to service these weapons, but rather a look at  how this (relatively) simple machine has changed warfare and politics and  the world.   I learned a tremendous amount about how this machine is used  in combat and how those uses changed from WWI to Desert Storm.  The  technical review is adequate and the discussion of applications and  deployment is phenomenal.  The accounts of soldiers further illustrate the  importance of this weapon to the modern battlefield.  I read this book  cover to cover in less than 5 days and plan to reread it soon.  It is truly  a must have for any serious military science or 20th century history  library.   Five stars don't rate high enough for this thoughtful review of  Maxim's machine and its many children.	1999-05-24
US	51963791	R1E3QUVZU1YZBQ	0425158365	287965603	Armored Cav (Tom Clancy's Military Reference)	Books	2	5	9	N	Y	Fluffy	Although the discussion of the equipment is comprehensive, the tactical discussion is very weak, and the maps of the Iraqi conflict utilized when talking to General Franks are childish at best.   Clancy's discussion of  the equipment seems like PR, there has to be some problems with equipment  or tactics, but no discussion of it. And I guess to be honest, I don't care  that he owns an M4 sherman and an HMMWV and that he &quot;loves them&quot;,  not very technical. I love Clancy's fictional writings, but I doubt I'll  buy any of his other &quot;factual&quot; books.	1999-05-04
US	51963791	R1Q5TE20HTW6JH	0024049603	541476530	Fluid Flow: A First Course in Fluid Mechanics	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Not the most useful	This book was required for a graduate introduction to fluid mechancis class.  I found myself going to Fluid Mechanics by Potter,Foss and other books to clarify topics that Sabersky's book left unclear in my mind.   Definitely not a good introductory book, I like it a little better now that  I have more insight into the field.	1999-02-04
