US	51964687	R2SPUQ63C5PGZ	0897500598	739889169	3: Basic Stick Fighting for Combat (Special Forces/Ranger-Udt/Seal Hand-To-Hand Combat/Special Weapons/Special Tactics Series)	Books	3	18	21	N	N	Different is good! It's basic, but insightful!	Basic Stick Fighting for Combat <br /> <br />This is an interesting little book (192 pages) about stick fighting. It was originally written as a training manual for special forces. And, it was an early book on stick fighting. To the best of my knowledge this book was published before Arnis (and other PMA) became popular. The late Michael D. Enhanis was highly trained in the Korean art of Hwa Rang Do and this book represents stick fighting techniques derived from that training. <br /> <br />The book covers fighting techniques with four varieties of sticks, basically sticks of various lengths (though there is some overlap in the lengths). First, the Baton with a length range from 18 to 36 inches (the pictures seem to indicate the author uses a baton in the 28-31 inch range). Some techniques would be more difficult with the shorter baton. Second, the Short Stick with a length range from 12 to 30 inches (the pictures seem to indicate the author uses a short stick in the 18-20 inch range). The majority of the techniques presented use double short sticks, though some single short stick techniques are demonstrated. Third, the Bone Breaker is an 11 inch oak stick of 1 inch diameter. This stick was the most interesting to me and the techniques are up close and personal. Fourth, the Cane. The author presents some uses of the cane I had not seen before. <br /> <br />The author presents blocks, strikes, and advanced techniques with each length of weapon. The reader will not find much of the \\"entangling\\" techniques of stick fighting present in many of the stick fighting books, though the author does utilize some basic trapping. The techniques all contain some degree of lethality - it was, after all, a special forces training manual. I did feel that some of the techniques bordered on the eccentric. Not all of them seem to me to utilize the best economy of motion. I have no doubt that the author could make these techniques work. I just think I would choose different combinations in some of the sequences for a different rhythm and flow. And, the author writes that each person should do just that. <br /> <br />So, the variety of weapons presented is a plus in this book, even if that reduces the total quantity of techniques for any one weapon discussed. The reader will gain a good basic understanding of how these weapons can be used. And the author states that his goal is to provide a basis from which the stick fighter can further research and develop his skills. <br /> <br />A side note, the author does discuss in brief the religious and internal aspects of Hwa Rang Do. As well, the \\"code\\" of the Hwa Rang Do warriors is provided. The book gives some brief history of the art and Korea as a whole (I think about 10 pages). It is interesting reading for those who don't already know the information. <br /> <br />If you're already into sticking fighting, especially the PMA, this book probably won't hold much for you, except to show you how the Korean approach may differ from the approach you currently use. Particularly interesting was the reverse grip use of the Short Stick. It reminded me a little of the reverse grip use of the Japanese Sai. <br /> <br />Anyway, if you're interested in stick fighting, this book will give you some information that you probably won't find in the PMA schools. Give it a read and decide for yourself. Personally, I'll gain from practicing these techniques, particularly the Bone Breaker techniques. I hope you enjoy this book and learn from it what you can.	2005-04-24
US	51964687	REYZG4QYX0W3B	076422817X	508354756	The Assignment	Books	1	1	6	N	N	Disappointing, in a huge kind of way!	If Coolio reviewed this book it might sound a little like this... <br /> <br />A little bit of highlander, all plot long; a little Frank Peretti, all plot long; a little wushu master, all plot long; a little too much Oprah in the end. <br /> <br />As you can see by the number of stars I gave this book, you can tell I liked it only slightly more than I like Coolio.	2004-08-11
US	51964687	R1BAIUD6S7JB63	1586606778	408147206	Operation: Firebrand-Deliverance (Operation: Firebrand Trilogy #3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Destination: North Korea (Can you believe it?)	I finally got around to reading Operation Firebrand: Deliverance. I'm sorry I waited so long to get into it. I really enjoyed the first two books in this series, and the third was even better than the first two. Of course, if you haven't read the first two yet, you'll want to. <br /> <br />In Deliverance, Scott continues his foray into reality Christian fiction. He pulls no punches as he describes the situation facing North Koreans, especially those who become Christians. While he is not gory with his descriptions, enough is said that you will pray such things don't really happen to Christians. His research on Sudan for Crusade was accurate, so I'm assuming his information on North Korea is also accurate. <br /> <br />This book doesn't probe deeply into a theological topic like many Christian fiction stories. However, and perhaps inadvertently, the reader does get a side-by-side look at Asian (specifically Korean) Christianity as it stands head and shoulders above American Christianity. I have known several Korean Christians, and they are intense believers. This is probably why Seoul Korea is about 40% Christian today. It is also why the Newsboys song \\"He Reigns\\" speaks of \\"Asian believers filled with God's holy fire.\\" I felt Scott really represented the Korean Christians well (especially the persecuted Christians of North Korea. For two years I worked with Christians who had been behind the iron curtain - I think Scott understands the mindset and seriousness of Christians who face such persecution). As you read the book, keep the comparison running in the back of your mind. It will give more depth to the story you are reading. So, in short, there is not a probing theological question, but rather you get descriptions of practical Christianity from two different world-views. Well conceived and well written, especially the first-person scenes of a new Christian facing persecution. <br /> <br />On top of that, it's a good read that will keep your interest. As the bookshave progressed the characters are developing, growing. I will say that the romantic thread in this book is obviously written by a guy, but he does a pretty good job of keeping it from getting sappy through most of the book. This one has a surprise ending, so I won't ruin it for you. But, I think you'll like it.  <br /> <br />If you liked the first two, you'll love this one. If you haven't read any of them, buy all three. When they arrive, don't delay. Read them as soon as you get them. You'll thank yourself as soon as you start reading. I can hardly wait for the next one.	2004-07-28
US	51964687	RIQ8ZJU13QZA1	0849917557	184435678	The Covering: God's Plan to Protect You From Evil	Books	3	14	15	N	N	A Great Start, But Needs A Little More	The Covering is Hanegraaff's follow-up to his book \\"The Prayer of Jesus.\\"  The first book addressed prayer in the New Testament.  In this brief volume, he addresses the armor of God made available to every Christian (see Ephesians 6:10-18).<br />In his Introduction, Hanegraaff reveals that his aim in writing is polemical (he is writing to correct erroneous teaching).  He addresses the errant teachings found in the writings of Neil T. Anderson, Bob Larson, and the teachings of deliverance ministry advocates (I have not read these authors and cannot comment on the content of their works.  Their errancy is Hanegraaff's opinion).  The essence of his disagreement with these authors is the degree of power or influence these men believe Satan/demons have over Christians.  Hanegraaff adequately shows from Scripture that a Christian cannot be demon possessed.<br />Hanegraaff argues that Satan only has power to influence people's minds.  This is where I disagree with him.  Scripture has several examples that show the power of Satan/demons manifest in the material realm (e.g., the showdown between Moses and Pharaoh's magicians).  Even still, Scripture does reveal that Satan's power is limited and is no match for God's omnipotence.<br />Hanegraaff offers a chapter for each piece of the armor of God.  His point in covering each piece is to show that a Christian who applies the armor will be more than adequately prepared for Biblical spiritual warfare.  A Christian who does not don the spiritual armor of God walks into battle vulnerable and asking for defeat.<br />A final chapter entitled \\"The Covering as a Lifestyle\\" is Hanegraaff's brief summary of the armor.  He gives examples of how one can be mindful of putting on the armor as one's gets dressed in the morning.  However, he falls short of actually telling the reader how to put on the armor.  He is not at all clear on the application side of The Covering.<br />I did enjoy this book.  His research and information was informative, especially the section showing that the Bible is clear that a Christian cannot be demon possessed.  That section alone will be worth the price of the book for many readers.  In the end, I was left wishing he had given me just a page or two more in each chapter with a clear explanation of how one actually puts on the armor.  I have enjoyed many of the little books of this size, but their limited size sometimes causes the author to omit the most necessary part of his topic.  This book is a very good beginning, but the reader will likely want more in the end.informative, especially the section showing that the Bible is clear that a Christian cannot be demon possessed.  That section alone will be worth the price of the book for many readers.  In the end, I was left wishing he had given me just a page or two more in each chapter with a clear explanation of how one actually puts on the armor.  I have enjoyed many of the little books of this size, but their limited size sometimes causes the author to omit the most necessary part of his topic.  This book is a very good beginning, but the reader will likely want more in the end.	2004-07-09
US	51964687	RUJFIAPHCCDFG	0060608528	317871622	Life Together: The Classic Exploration of Christian in Community	Books	5	20	24	N	N	What you need to know about church!	Life Together was written by Dietrich Bonhoeffer while he was in a Nazi Gestapo prison during WWII.  The book's Introduction is a 6 page mini-bio of Bonhoeffer, which will inform the reader as to why he was in a Nazi Gestapo prison.  He was executed by the Nazi's just weeks before the end of the war.  <br />Life Together was written while Bonhoeffer was being held by the Nazi's.  It is his short treatise on Faith in Community - what it means to be the Body of Christ.  During his time in prison, Bonhoeffer undoubtedly had interaction with Christians of many denominations.  This probably led to contemplation of what it meant for all of them to worship together, even in a prison camp.  <br />The book is just five chapters: <br />1. Community <BR>2. The Day with Others <BR>3. The Day Alone <BR>4. Ministry <BR>5. Confession and Communion <br />Amazingly enough, Bonhoeffer thinks seriously and deeply about what it should be like for Christians to experience Life Together as the Church.  Few current authors are packing so much in so little a book.  <br />In the first chapter he looks at relating to one another as Jesus would have us relate to one another.  He distinguishes between the worldly and the biblical concepts of living in community.  His observations are astounding and would do many churches a great deal of good today.  <br />In chapters 2 and 3, he looks at one's relationship with God as it should be lived both corporately and individually.  He even gives us a glimpse of what family worship was expected to look like at that time.  Again, his observations would do Christians much good today.  <br />The chapter on ministry is outstanding, but one really cannot do it justice in just a few sentences.  The final chapter on confession and communion was a mixed bag for me.  His ideas on confession were pretty good.  However, his beliefs on communion are different from my beliefs (he was a Lutheran, I am a Baptist).  Even still, I would recommend reading this chapter with one's eyes open.  <br />When all is said and done, this is a wonderful book.  It was written in 1940's German and translated to English, so there are some places where the translation is not always the clearest.  The reader should know that Bonhoeffer was not only a pastor, but also a theologian - his writing is meaty, not fluffy.  For those brave enough to sink their teeth in, this book will be a great read (and probably a great re-read).  There is much to learn in this little book.  I even found that much of this book can be applied within the marriage context.  Read, enjoy, apply it to all aspects of your life.	2004-07-09
US	51964687	R1TQ1I67D16J8P	006066522X	877433144	Leap Over a Wall : Earthy Spirituality for Everyday Christians	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Treasure in the attic...	I found a copy of this book in my in-law's attic.  I looked through the contents and decided to read the chapter on Friendship - David and Jonathan.  Peterson is profound in this chapter.  His comments on friendship as an expression of spirituality were so insightful that I am viewing my relationships with others in a new way already.  I was even convicted that my friendship with my wife was not sufficient by God's standard.  Wow, what a difference one chapter can make.  I can hardly wait to buy this book and read the all of Peterson's reflections on the life of David.  I like this &quot;earthy spirituality.&quot;  Give it a try, you might like it too.	2004-03-13
US	51964687	R1K0RQ7JQQXFXR	158660676X	305526704	Operation Firebrand-Crusade: Let My People Go (Operation Firebrand Trilogy, No.2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Better than the first one!	Jefferson Scott has outdone his first effort in the Firebrand series with book two: Crusade.  I must warn you though, I was surprised that he was as detailed as he was in explaining the situation in the Sudan.  He certainly gets past the common &quot;sterilized&quot; Christianity that sees everything through rose colored stained glass windows that never allow the reality of the world to pass before our eyes.  Scott is open, accurate, and intense.  <br />This book exposes the persecution facing Christians in the Sudan.  I've reasearch the area.  Scott is accurate.  <br />The probing question of this book is why does evil happen in the world - theodicy.  Team leader and former Navy Seal, Jason, deals with his hatred for predators that prey on children.  If you've got an ounce of compassion in your heart, this book will get you fired up.  Personally, in one scene, I could easily have done what Jason did to such a predator.  This book will hit your emotions.  <br />In this book the Team is sent to the Sudan to rescue a group of tribal people - Dinka - who have been taken as slaves.  They stay a little too long and get a little too active in their strikes against the established slave trade, so much so that they reap the whirlwind.  It's a great story that will wrap itself around you.  You will be reading fiction, but realize it is based on the reality of many people in the Sudan.  <br />Rachel is the focus of this story.  She's a 20-something Israeli who formerly worked for MOSSAD.  Two things seemed out of character for her in this story.  1. She makes a reference to Romper Room (a 20-something Isreali???).  2. She did not know that C4 is stable and only detonates with a fuse.  Both of those things seemed out of character for her.  Otherwise, her story is pretty realistic.  <br />I hope you enjoy Crusade as much as I did.  I'm looking forward to book three in the series.	2003-10-05
US	51964687	R3D6F7GZ0R49DL	087552169X	483884054	Predestination: The Combined Edition of Biblical Predestination and Predestination in the Old Testament	Books	3	11	24	N	N	Know What You're Reading	Gordon H. Clark's Predestination is a combination of two works he wrote on the Doctrine of Predestination.  Clark presents the Reformed doctrine well.  The second half of the book, formerly published as Predestination in the Old Testament, is written as a polemic of Chapter 6 in the book Grace Unlimited (edited by Clark Pinnock).  That chapter is also entitled Predestination in the Old Testament written by J.A. Clines.  <br />Clark thoroughly examines passages of Scripture relating to the Doctrine of Predestination (even showing how other doctrines augment Predestiantion).  One down-side of the book (which is present in almost all systematic theology) is that few, if any, of the opposing Scriptures are examined.  Clark does interact with a few of the objections, though he relies heavily on John Gill when he does so.  Another down-side is that he looks at Scripture to find Biblical fact, then makes assertions from those facts, then draws logical conclusions from the assertions.  If he drew his conclusions from the facts his arguement would be much more convincing.  But, he must draw the conclusions from the assertions to develop the doctrine as he does.  <br />Clark packs this doctrine very tightly and writes very clearly.  If one reads Clark without knowing the Bible well, one will likely believe that what he has written is what the Bible teaches.  However, theology is not done in a vacuum.  It seems that Clark does not see the implications of his doctrine on other doctrines.  For example, Clark comments on the claim of Jesus that Jesus could call down thousands of angels to save Him if He chose to do so.  Clark claims that Jesus could not have done so because His crucifixion was predestined.  So, Clark's Jesus made a claim that was false (i.e., Clark has inadvertently made Jesus a liar).  <br />Predestination is a tricky beast that must be handled with deft pen.  Clark has addressed the topic thoroughly, but I am not convinced that he is right in his conclusions.For Clark, the Doctrine of Predestination is nothing less than aboslute determinism.  Know what you're reading, but read it all the same.  However, you should read it with your Bible and your eyes open.	2003-10-05
US	51964687	R31KXW30MUK5HV	0875521371	54446938	Biblical Predestination	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Well-written, but...	Biblical Predestination by Gordon H. Clark is a well-written defense of the doctrine of Predestination.  Clark is thorough in his treatment of Scriptures relating to a variety of doctrines.  He covers the doctrines of Creation, Omnipotence, Omniscience, and Eternal Decree and their relationship to Predestination.  He follows this with a selection of Scriptures specifically teaching Predestination.  Clark concludes with a section attempting to disprove the Arminian teaching that man has free will.  <br />Clark's approach is a systematic one.  Such an approach usually deals with passages of Scripture supporting one's position.  Often this approach neglects passages which do not support one's position.  Clark, commendably, addresses some of the &quot;opposing&quot; Scriptures.  Another feature of systemization present in Clark's writing is stating Biblical fact, making assertions, and then drawing logical conclusions.  It is the area of assertion that concerns me most in Clark's writing.  If one draws logical conclusions from the Biblical facts, there is a case for the doctrine of Predestination, albeit a weaker case.  Often this results in one speaking where Scripture does not speak.  <br />Clark refutes a number of Arminian passages of Scripture, although his treatment does not address all such passages.  The ones he does address are clearly dealt with.  <br />In the end, Clark feels that he has proven the doctrine of Predestination.  Truly, he advocates absolute determinism (including the doctrine of reprobation).  Not a single thing, not even a single thought, occurs outside the predestination of God.  I do not believe such a position deals with the entirety of Scripture.  Clark's assertions aid in his coming to such a conclusion.  <br />If one is interested in learning more of the doctrine of Predestination, Clark is well-written.  Calvinists will love him; Arminians will not.  It will be important for the reader to be increasingly knowledgeable of Scripture, so as not to be misled (either way) in relation to the doctrine of Predestination.	2003-09-07
US	51964687	R19L71JHK2BXDZ	0800793048	825009818	An Appointment With the King: Ideas for Jump-Starting Your Devotional Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent book for your devotional life!	I was looking for a book to use with new believers to help guide them in developing a daily quiet time.  I came across \\"An Appointment with the King: Ideas for Jump-Starting Your Devotional Life\\" and decided to see if it would work.  I must say that I was pretty pleased with this book.<br />The author, Joel Comisky, is a Christian and Missionary Alliance minister.  He has served as a missionary in Ecuador with the C&amp;MA.  He also has traveled to worship in Korea.  His international experiences add a wonderful flavor to this book.  It is always a wonderful experience to read books that bring intercultural insights to their subject.<br />The book is comprised of 18 fairly short chapters.  They are presented in two parts.  The first is \\"Practical Steps Toward a Daily Quiet Time.\\"  The second is \\"The Disciplines of a Quiet Time.\\"  In the first section, the author clearly explains what a quiet time is.  He also addresses most of the reasons people give for not having a quiet time.  This is an excellent section.  The second section addresses more detailed aspects of practices that can be included in one's quiet time (Bible reading, prayer, meditation, and even fasting and journaling).  All in all, both sections are very helpful.<br />I did have one concern with the book.  The chapter on worship has a paragraph about speaking in tongues in one's quiet time.  What the author says is biblically accurate, but I wish he had given a little more space to this topic.  It would be unfortunate for a new believer to misunderstand the author's point on tongues based on such a small statement on the use of this spiritual gift in one's quiet time.  The author does not state that speaking in tongues is for everyone, but his statement could be misconstrued to that misunderstanding.<br />Unfortunately, this book went out of print while I was previewing it.  I do believe this book would be helpful for use in a small group setting with new believers.  Each chapter has a few questions forpersonal and group use.  I hope this one will come back into print.  Any concerns about the gift of tongues can be addressed in the small group setting.  I think this book would be beneficial to any Christian who is struggling with a time of daily devotion.	2003-08-26
US	51964687	R3F7628TZDYTQX	187761193X	54153407	Justification by Faith Alone: Affirming the Doctrine by Which the Church and the Individual Stands or Falls (Reformation Theology Series)	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Excellent treatment of vital doctrine!	Justification by Faith ALONE (JBFA) was recommended to me as a good introduction to the doctrine of Justification by Faith written from a Reformed theological perspective.  While I enjoyed reading the book, it was not what I expected it to be.  The book does cover this doctrine from the Reformed perspective - it is thorough and informative.<br />What I did not know is that JBFA, a compilation of essays, was published in 1995 as a response, or reaction, to \\"Evangelicals and Catholics Together: The Christian Mission and the Third Millennium.\\"  They are reacting to a document that seeks to bring Evangelicals and Catholics to common ground, but which virtually ignores THE major difference between the two, since the Reformation itself, and that is the doctrine of Justification by Faith Alone.  So, the JBFA is a counter to another work, but a much needed counter.  Any attempt to unify Protestants and Catholics must consider this topic.<br />The essays and authors are as follows:<br />1. Long Before Luther: Jesus and the Doctrine of Justification - Dr. John F. MacArthur, Jr.<br />2. Justification by Faith Alone: The Forensic Nature of Justification - Dr. R.C. Sproul<br />3. Justification by Faith Alone: The Relation of Faith to Justification - Dr. Joel R. Beeke<br />4. Justification by Faith Alone: The Nature of Justifying Faith - Dr. John H. Gerstner<br />5. Justification by Faith Alone: The Sufficiency of Faith for Justification - Dr. John H. Armstrong<br />JBFA has an all-star cast of authors.  They provided me with information that I did not know.  As a student of language, I knew that one of the most difficult aspects of learning a language is gaining a mastery of prepositions.  This may sound trivial to non-linguists, but it is true.  I now know some of the linguistic reasoning behind the doctrine of justification by faith.  The brief section with this information is not overbearing to the reader.  I found it very helpful.<br />Dr. Don Kistler edited this compilationof essays.  I wish a little more forethought had gone into how this project would come together.  Each author did address specific nuances of the doctrine of justification by faith alone.  However, most of the essays covereded very similar ground on the background of the doctrine and the historic theological differences between Protestant and Catholic belief on this issue.  The book became very repetitive and laborious in this regard.  It probably could have cover this doctrine just as thoroughly in half the space if it had been approached differently.<br />A second issue I have with the book is that it does not accomplish what it promises.  In the Preface Dr. Kistler writes, \\"Not relying on the works of the Reformers and Puritan divines, whom we largely publish, for final authority, the authors support by sound exegesis of Scripture the Reformational position that a faith which receives forgiveness and justification is the faith that doesn't look to itself but to God (p. x).\\"  While the authors did explain this view of justification very well, they also seemed to rely on the works of the Reformers and Puritans more than on Scripture.  I did not keep a tally, but it seemed that far more quotations came from historical figures than from Scripture.  Such notable scholars should be able to articulate this doctrine from Scripture alone.  I was disappointed in this aspect of the book, because I much prefer to see doctrine from Scripture than history.<br />A final issue stems from the incoherency of the concept of \\"faith\\" in this compilation.  If the authors had decided upon a working definition of this one word, it would have gone a long way in making this book pleasant reading.  Even if each author had stated a definition of faith for each essay, it would have been helpful.  Instead, the reader must wade through murky waters trying to sort out just what the authors were trying to say.  In one paragraph, one of the authors personifies faith and faith is suddenly takingaction.  The Bible personifies wisdom, but never faith.  I found myself wondering if these concepts of faith were actually Biblical, or merely theological (and, there is a difference).  Hand-in-hand is the overall issue of terminology, or vocabulary.  Most of the Latin is explained in English.  However, I did not find JBFA to be clear reading since I am not overly familiar with the vocabulary of Reformed Theology (even though I have a Master's in Theology).<br />Overall, I liked the book.  I found it to be very informative on the doctrine of Justification by Faith ALONE.  I do believe it could have been done better.  I do not believe it is truly an introductory book on this topic.  If you are familiar with the language of Reformed Theology and you realize this book is written contra Catholicism you will most likely enjoy this book.  If you are Catholic and wonder what is the difference in Protestant belief on justification, this book will be very helpful to you, but you must be aware it is not written to please a Catholic audience.	2003-08-16
US	51964687	R3N0U2G6PI6WP8	1576739767	595690668	A Life God Rewards: Why Everything You Do Today Matters Forever	Books	4	25	27	N	N	A much needed reminder that God rewards our deeds!	I was very pleased to see Wilkinson address the topic of rewards from God.  One of my Sunday School teachers asked me for a book on this very topic just before this book was published.  At that time, I could find nothing on God's rewards for Christian service.  Now, Wilkinson has given us his take on the topic.  <br />To be honest, I wasn't grabbed by this book in the opening pages like I had been with the previous two in this series.  However, from about page 30 on I really wanted to keep going.  <br />The book is not, as some have suggested in other reviews, a claim that salvation is by works.  Wilkinson makes very clear in this book that faith determines your eternal destination, works determines what you do once you get there.  So many people think we'll just throw our crowns at Jesus' feet and then all be equal in heaven.  Wilkinson shows this is not even close to what the Bible teaches.<br />He deals well with the passages that speak of rewards in heaven for our works on earth.  I had never heard anyone discuss the possibility of suffering loss in heaven based on one's works.  He explains the idea well and defends it ably, though the reader is not told what suffering loss in heaven is like.  <br />The very best part of the book comes between pages 60-70.  Every Christian should read those ten pages if they read nothing else this year.  The whole point is that we are judged based on how we did compared to how we could have done.  The section is excellent!  <br />While this little book does not cover everything I wish it covered (nor does it say everything I wish it said), I am very thankful that Wilkinson has brought this topic back to the forefront.  I hope several more authors will follow his lead on expounding this topic for us.  I encourage you to read this book.	2003-05-30
US	51964687	R3A8MU9A5HJMN7	1579213197	550238246	Did the Apostle Paul Teach Tithing to the Church?	Books	1	4	12	N	N	A Very Dangerous Subject Not Handled Well	I was really hoping this book would answer my questions regarding what the Apostle Paul taught about tithing.  I was sorely disappointed.  Minister Kithcart did not even discuss the one passage written by the Apostle Paul that does teach tithing.  I was very disappointed, but not surprised.  This is yet another book in which an author &quot;proves&quot; his own presuppositions.  He does not go to the Biblical text and wrestle with authors who disagree with him.  He states his own opinion and rarely goes beyond that.<br />As for the layout of the book - Minister Kithcart opens with a letter he sent to 10 ministers &quot;questioning&quot; them about the tithe.  He received very few responses.  No wonder - the letter begins on page 12 and concludes on page 22.  It expounds his point of view, and sometimes arrogantly.  Following that, he gives his perspective on financing ministry today.  He does print four letters he received from different ministers in response to his views.  And, they are pretty weak in thier defense of tithing.  However, that does not prove Minister Kithcart's point.<br />This is a thin book full of thin arguments on a very important Biblical teaching.	2003-05-24
US	51964687	R1OKWBMC7OPBB8	1586605860	598900845	Operation: Firebrand (Operation: Firebrand Series #1)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A Great Beginning With More To Come!!!	Operation Firebrand is, to the best of my knowledge, a one-of-a-kind book.  Scott has put together a pretty solid team for Operation Firebrand.  And, the book should keep most readers enthralled for the long haul.  <br />Each character in the team has just the right mix of skills and specialties to get the job done.  No one seems to overlap; therefore all are completely necessary.  Some might even think they are too perfect.  And, based on physical descriptions, I would say that they are.  <br />I was surprised at the consistent level of immaturity displayed by most of the characters - they just couldn't be that professional and that immature at the same time.  So, there is some unbelievability to the story.  <br />The story does pick up bonus points at the level of special weapons - the non-lethals are pretty cool.  This technological advantage comes to us from Scott's techno-thriller books.  He may be right in his assessment that the Operation Firebrand team is using the weapons just ahead of our real spec forces folks.  If they work in real life, they will be very useful.  The drone technology in this book has been used in Afghanistan and Iraq, so at least part of it is really in development.  <br />We do get some character development from other team members.  The two primary characters that we see most of are Jason and Doug.  They are fairly believable, but the depth of Jason's anguish could have been developed further.  Even still, the resolution is real enough for us.  <br />One word of caution.  I know Scott claims to have gotten info from an actual former Navy Seal.  He describes the sleeper hold and explains that in 10 seconds the victim will pass out due to lack of blood flow from the carotid artery.  In my 12 years of martial arts training, we were taught that five seconds without blood to the brain would render the victim unconscious, eight was the point of brain damage and the ten seconds plus was pretty certain death.  So, his claim of ten seconds could be dangerous if someone were to actually try it based on that info.  <br />Overall, this book is a good book.  At several points along the way, he hooks the reader and makes you press on.  The best hook of the whole book is in the last two pages.  I can hardly wait for the sequel to be released.  I just saw that it is scheduled for a June 2003 release.  I'll be getting it as soon as it's available.  <br />I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did.	2003-05-03
US	51964687	R1894IWGRB0B3D	157856512X	13378151	Thorn in My Heart (Lowlands of Scotland Series #1)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	It'll grab ya, and keep ya til the end!	Wow! This is the best novel I have read in a long time.  <br />&quot;Thorn In My Heart&quot; will keep you up reading late into the night.  The story is a historical modernization of the Biblical story of Jacob and Essau - and it is masterfully written. Higgs captures all the agony that deceit and betrayal entail, but she also gives us a hopeless woman's hope. She paints for the reader a picture of one who is truly in love, even though the man she loves has eyes for another. We find the struggle between duty and desire, and probably can relate more than we would like to admit. <br />Higgs chose well in setting this story in 1780's Scotland.  Much of the Biblical story was easily adapted to the culture of the region she chose. She did a great deal of research into the meals and medical remedies of the age.  The detail is wonderful and enlightening.  She uses historical places and family names, but does little to tie the story into the actual historical events from Galloway in that period.  Nonetheless, the tale is wonderful. <br />The one aspect of the book that I thought was weak was the depth of immaturity of the main character.  Jamie McKie is a weak-willed, manipulated manipulator who can do little besides focusing on his own desires.  However, it is in Jamie's weaknesses that Higgs has created such a meaningful story.  It is not until the last (maybe) 30 pages that we see him begin to mature (and its a 475 page book).  Now, we must wait with baited breath to see if he continues to grow in the second novel &quot;Fairer Is The Rose.&quot; <br />Oh, the agony of waiting for the next novel. Higgs will be hard-pressed to outdo &quot;Thorn In My Heart,&quot; but I have high hopes that she will not disappoint us.  <br />The reader should also be aware that this is a book with a map in the front and a glossary in the back.  Be prepared to use both on occasion.  <br />If you are a lover of historical (Scottish) fiction, romance novels, or simply well spun yarns, you'll love this novel.  My wife is a huge fan of Austin and Bronte and she loved this book.  She agreed that its the best novel she had read in a long time. Though, she'll quickly tell you that it's no Austin or Bronte.  I hope you will buy this book, and I know that you will enjoy it if you do (even if it costs you a little of your precious sleep)!	2003-04-21
US	51964687	RCAYXUYJURXM8	1558585362	623510960	The Rainbow Fish	Books	1	9	17	N	N	Baby Steps to Socialism (or, Ugly Fish Unite!)	I was appalled the first time I read this book.  It was given to us for my daughter - I would never have purchased this for her.<br />This book can be interpreted in three ways:<br />1. Rainbow Fish will only be accepted by the other fish if he gives away his many shiny scales so that each fish possesses the same number of shiny scales - thus it is socialism.<br />2. Rainbow Fish will only be accepted by the other fish when he is the same as all of the others by not being unique (especially uniquely beautiful).  Rainbow Fish can not be more than the other fish in any way.  This perfectly describes the philosophy of our modern educational system - everyone must be dumbed down to the same point - no one can be smarter than the others.<br />3. Rainbow Fish suffers from the Ugly Fish Union.  They will unionize to make sure they get what they want from Rainbow Fish.  My apology to union employees - I'm a union member myself, but do not like the way unions are abused.  Perhaps I should have likened the story to mob racketeering.<br />The book claims to be about sharing, but is far too off base in its presumption.  Sharing is what you do with things you possess.  Rainbow Fish gives away his shiny scales - he gives away what makes him Rainbow Fish - this is not sharing, but rather is self-destruction.<br />The key to any of these interpretations is that Rainbow Fish is not loved for being Rainbow Fish and the only solution is to minimize his uniqueness in order to be loved.  This solution is far too simplistic (its totally wrong) to work in real life.<br />This is not a message that I will teach my daughter.  I want her to be secure and confident in her uniquenesses.  I hope she will never feel that she needs to become someone other than she is to be loved and accepted by those around her.	2003-04-17
US	51964687	R3AX3HYP0D1PRZ	0849917549	258180881	Five Things Every Christian Needs to Grow	Books	3	47	51	N	N	Prescriptive, not descriptive	I bought this book to see if it would be suitable for use in a new believers class - I was looking for something that would ground them in the basics of Christian practice.  So, the title &quot;Five Things Every Christian Needs to Grow&quot; certainly caught my eye.  <br />What are the five things?  They are Bible Study, Prayer, Worship, Service, and Stewardship.  These five things are essential to Christian growth.  They are precisely the topics I was looking for in a book.  <br />Upon reading the book, I discovered that the book is prescriptive, not descriptive.  In other words, the book tells one what to do, but fails to tell one how to do it.  <br />Each of the chapters could have been about half its length.  Much of the verbage was story to exemplify the point.  We understand the necessity and importance of these five aspects of the Christian life.  It is the &quot;how-to&quot; that people have trouble with.  In many cases, mentoring is the answer, but it helps to have something written to use as well.  <br />So, if you're looking for a &quot;how-to&quot; book, this probably will not completely satisfy you.  If you're looking for a book that will help you to understand the importance and necessity of these five aspects of the Christian life, this book will serve you pretty well (though I believe differently than Dr. Sproul on where the tithe is to be given).  <br />One major benefit is that all five aspects are discussed in only 88 pages.  The book can be read in one sitting, or as a one chapter a day supplement to one's devotional time.	2003-04-03
US	51964687	RGVFL19XYY1I5	1880226545	674517473	God's Appointed Times: A Practical Guide for Understanding and Celebrating the Biblical Holidays	Books	4	25	25	N	N	The Jewish Feasts for Today	Barney Kasdan has given us a valuable book on the Lord's Feasts of the Old Testament.  He writes as a Messianic Jew - a Jew who has come to believe that Jesus is the promised Messiah.  His goal for writing the book is to acquaint Christians with the Jewish Feasts.  <br />He examines the seven Feasts of the Lord found in Leviticus 23.  He presents historical background, traditional Jewish observance (both Old Testament and rabbinic tradition), New Testament observance/significance, and prophetic fulfillment.  <br />Kasdan intended this book to be a practical guide to the feasts.  He suggests ways in which each of the holy days can be observed by believers in order to deepen their understanding of what God has done and will do.  He includes recipes and crafts for each of the holy days.  <br />At first, I thought this book was a little simplistic.  Then, I read three others related to the same feasts.  Kasdan has given us the most readable book of the lot.  Two of the others that I read were primarily focused on the prophecy of the feasts - to me that took away from their practicality for today.  I believe Kasdan has given us the better basic introduction for believers who want to know more about their Jewish heritage, without getting bogged down in prophetic studies based on typology and numerology.  <br />I highly recommend this book as your starting place for learning more about the Feasts - God's Appointed Times.	2003-03-31
US	51964687	R35W6A5UPSHYS7	1560437677	778177685	The Seven Festivals of the Messiah	Books	3	33	34	N	N	A very detailed look at festival prophecy!	Edward Chumney's \\"The Seven Festivals of the Messiah\\" is a very detailed and thorough look at the Jewish Feasts - the Feasts of the Lord - found in Leviticus 23.  He does a great job in explaining the feasts and the festive cycles.  He also explains the difference between the religious and civil calendars of the Jews.  A chart and several tables accompany his explanations.  <br />Chumeny writes for a Christian audience, but is very sensitive to any Jews who might also read his book.  He omits the vowels when referring to G-d and the L-rd out of respect for the Jewish practice of not saying or writing the name of G-d.  He also includes the Hebrew terms for Jewish readers.  However, he writes with the English term then adds the Hebrew in parenthesis (following the English word).  This is commendable, but it becomes cumbersome after about 30 pages.  <br />Chumney focuses in on the prophetic aspects of the feasts.  He discusses other aspects, but prophecy seemed to be his passion in the book.  His guiding principle is that \\"God gave the natural for us to understand the spiritual (p. 9).\\"  So, he takes the natural and begins to extrapolate based on typology and numerology.  Sometimes his conclusions are clearly founded in Scripture, but sometimes he seems to be stretching beyond what the Bible actually says.  <br />In the end I felt that much of the historical sense of the feasts was lost by his focus on the fulfillment of the feasts.  His writing is very detailed on the prophetic aspects, seeking to show how Jesus fulfilled every aspect of each feast (or will fulfill every aspect), even if every minute detail does not require a fulfillment.  The focus on the details made this cumbersome reading for me and left me somewhat skeptical of some of the author's conclusions - even though I believe he is right much of the time.  <br />If you're a big fan of Bible prophecy and really like studies that include typology and numerology, you'll undoubtedly love this book.  If you'relooking for an introduction to the Jewish feasts for Christians and are not as concerned about the prophetic aspects of them, you will be better served by Barney Kasdan's \\"God's Appointed Times.\\"  Whichever you chose, there is much for every Christian to learn about the Jewish Feasts.  Enjoy!  And, learn to celebrate as God expected the Jews to do.	2003-03-31
US	51964687	RY9ISY080GUQ4	0670888605	163532492	Froggy Goes to Bed	Books	1	15	20	N	N	Every tactic you don't want to teach your child!	Raising respectful children is a difficult task.  Many parents try hard, and pray hard, to see that their children learn good manners and a good attitude.  Those are some of my parenting goals.  <br />This is our first Froggy book - it was given to my daughter as a Christmas gift.  It is certainly not a book I would have bought for her.  Other reviewers have written about the disrespect the Froggy shows toward his mother - and it is prevalent in this story.  <br />The other concern I have with this story is the fact that it teaches children a number of diversions to use when they don't want to go to bed.  I'm pretty sure that children will learn many of these on their own, but why read them this story and teach them to:<br />   hide their toothbrush in the cookie jar? <BR>   to eat after brushing their teeth for the night? <BR>   to demand so much from their mother before going to sleep? <br />No!  These are certainly not things I will intentionally teach my daughter.  <br />The story does beg one other question - Where is Froggy's father in all this?  <br />If you want to speed your child on his or her way to being ill mannered and disrespectful, this is the book for you.  <br />The only plus, in my opinion, is the artwork.  The book is well illustrated.	2003-03-28
US	51964687	R3EFBDBLLW42BD	1590520734	1901507	The Rescuer: The O'Malley Series, book #6	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Another Great Oï¿½Malley Tale!!!	The Rescuer is another great OMalley tale.  The book is very well written, though Dee takes a slightly different approach to this novel.  In the previous OMalley tales, the villains are kept pretty low-key and mysterious  the reader is working to figure out who-dun-it.  In this story, the reader is given the story of the bad guys, as well as the story of Stephen OMalley.  <br />The previous OMalley book, the Healer, kept me pulled in very close  it was an emotional book on several levels.  The Rescuer did not pull me in quite the same way.  Stephen OMalley is struggling on several levels  hes feels alone (hes the last single OMalley) and hes grieving over the death of his sister.  The book had the potential to be very emotional, but it did not seem to me to catch the depth of Stephens struggle.  <br />The book also didnt bring me closure with the whole OMalley clan.  It makes me wonder if Henderson is leaving the door open for future OMalley projects, even though this book is slated as the final of the series.  I would love it greatly if she would continue to write about the OMalleys.  They are a great family, and in several ways model what many families should be.  <br />Those things aside, Henderson gives us an interesting story of three jewelry thieves.  She portrays the intensity of crime and distrust among thieves pretty well.  The characters face the consequences of their actions that they did not consider early in their turn to crime.  We also see how small beginnings become more than one can handle over time.  The web becomes tangled so quickly and innocents get caught up in treachery unexpectedly.  <br />The leading lady in this novel is blind.  I thought Henderson did a good job, even if it is basic, of showing me what blind people deal with in daily life.  She expanded my ability to understand and empathize with blind people.  <br />Please do not read my review in the wrong way  this is an excellent story.  But, like the previous OMalley story, this is not the place to begin  read the others first.  I hope you enjoy them thoroughly.  I certianly have!	2003-03-26
US	51964687	R2KM5R3Y4J8BHN	1576739252	504651803	The Healer (O'Malley Series, Book 5)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of Dee's Best!  Very emotionally stirring!	The Healer by Dee Henderson is the story of Rachel O'Malley.  If you have read the previous book in the O'Malley series, you will already be familiar with Rachel.  She is a trauma psychologist who works disasters for the Red Cross.  <br />This book begins with flood relief, moves to a school shooting, and ends with the first O'Malley family funeral.  While the story does present the reader with a couple of unlikely situations, Henderson gives the reader one of her best stories.  The whole O'Malley family is back together in this book.  Despite the burnout and emotional drain that several of the O'Malley's are facing, the joy of family loyalty and love comes through in parts of the book.  Despite the fact that Jennifer O'Malley loses her battle with cancer, the reader sees a portrayal of how a Christian faces such an end.  <br />Emotions run deep in this book and Henderson has written them well.  I think this book reveals a great deal of maturity in Henderson's development as a writer.  If you have read the other O'Malley books, you'll enjoy this one.  If you haven't read the previous books in this series, this book is probably not the best entry point.  It would be worth your while to go back to the beginning and get to know this great family.  The O'Malley family is brilliantly conceived.  Enjoy getting to know them!	2003-03-20
US	51964687	RCIZN600AAGHL	0825429080	653250248	Tablets of Ararat	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Conceptually brilliant, but lacking...	The Tablets of Ararat by C. J. Illinik is a brilliantly conceived novel.  The story line is solid.  The historical detail is rich.  The food is well described, unlike many novels I have read.  The characters are lively and intriguing, though they sometimes do inconsistent things.  <br />The book is more of a braided novel, or a series of short stories that set the stage for a novella, than a novel that tells a single story.  However, that is not really accurate.  The story being told is the story of a corner of a tablet on which Noah had inventoried the animals on the ark.  This being so, we follow the story of the corner through time and space.  Up to the point of around the 1960's.  At that point, we pick up the story of Arianna Arista and her cohorts in their quest that leads them to find two more tablets.  The story really picks up at this point - the first 150+ pages covers the story of the corner, the final 200+/- pages tell the story of Arianna et. al.<br />I read 195 pages before discovering that this book actually was Christian fiction.  However, the reader will find more characters in the book praising Allah (Turkish Muslims), than Christians praising Yahweh.  The book seems to lend credibility to the idea that the two are actually the same.  So, the reader should read with caution and discretion.  <br />One annoying aspect of the book is that the author very frequently uses italicized foreign words, followed by a brief explanation in English.  Personally, just using the English would have contributed greatly to the flow of the book.  <br />One glaring error comes when the author writes that St. Paul baptized Cornelius.  The statement is footnoted with Acts 10, which plainly tells us the Peter, not Paul, baptized Cornelius.  <br />At one point, the author throws in comments about women's issues in Turkey.  A comment is made by one character that demeans women who do want to be housewives.  <br />There are several places in the book where information in thestory conflicts with other information the reader has already been given.  An example of this is when Morgan strips to his shorts and swims to a boat to save Arianna.  While on the boat, he kicks in a door with his size 13 boot.  I would think boots would make the swimming difficult.  Several more lapses like this are present in the book.  <br />All in all the story is conceptualized brilliantly.  It kept my interest throughout.  I think many readers will enjoy the book, but I did want to share the comments above.  I hope this author continues to write, maybe even the sequel that this book leaves hints of.  If you buy this book, I hope you enjoy it immensely.  However, if you are like me, you will find yourself annoyed at some aspects of the book.	2003-03-12
US	51964687	R3J4UH1SBDOTOI	076442257X	156176273	Lost in America: How You and Your Church Can Impact the World Next Door	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Wow!  Eye-opening masterpiece!	This book is excellent.  The authors really get to the heart of whole-congregation evangelism.  And, they don't pull any punches either.  Tom Clegg, who's voice we hear throughout the book, served as a pastor in the US, a missionary in Africa, and has consulted with many churches regarding church growth and evangelism.  He writes this book as a missionary to the United States (i.e., he writes in a way that will engage our culture).  <br />The book is written in three sections - Changes, Choices, &amp; Challenges.  <br />Almost every chapter has the following sections: <BR> The Big Idea - Introduces you to the subject of the chapter.  <BR> Up Close &amp; Personal - Gives an example from a church in the U.S. <BR> Rent this Movie - Movie from which discussion of the topic can be addressed.  <BR> Connections - Questions for personal application.  <BR> Discussion Questions - Personal or small group study.  <br />I plan to use this book in a small group setting in our church.  There are a number of people in our congregation who will hear the truth in this book and embrace it.  When we embrace the vital necessity of relationship-evangelism we will reach our friends and neighbors in the twenty-first century.  <br />I recommend this book to every Christian.  It will open your eyes, even if one or two of the stories herein break your heart in the process.  It is in our brokenness that we will be used by God to reach others.	2003-02-27
US	51964687	R3NJ1E7VKJ49O6	1885767455	977420055	Reforming Marriage	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Finally!  Wilson presents us with Biblical marriage!	This is the most clearly written explanation of Biblical marriage that I have ever read.  It is also a picture of marriage that I have never truly seen.  The contents of this book go further than I had imagined.  I was convicted about my own marriage through reading this book.  <br />Any book about marriage from a Biblical standpoint will have feminists up in arms.  This will be true of Reforming Marriage as well.  However, Wilson handles the topics of male-headship and the submission of the wife better than anyone I have ever read or heard.  However, he spends far more time dealing with what the husband should be than he does explaining what the wife should be.  He does not shy away from calling unbiblical husbands dolts and meatheads.  <br />I would dare say that this book is a book that many husbands, even Christian husbands, do not want their wives to read.  Why?  Because Wilson takes dead aim on the fact that the husband is to be the leader in the home - the husband is responsible before God whether he wants to be or not.  <br />I asked my wife to read this book when I finished it.  She, too, is in agreement with this presentation of Biblical marriage.  <br />I found myself agreeing with Wilson almost all the way through.  At a few points I disagreed with him, but changed my mind as I read further.  On one or two points I still disagree with Wilson, but that does not prevent me from declaring this book a must-read.  When you finish this book, I dare say you will want a marriage that looks like the one described herein.  I know my wife and I do.	2003-01-17
US	51964687	R27BQS66LSV9Z2	0830728740	54019571	What Every Sunday School Teacher Should Know: 24 Secrets That Can Help You Change Lives	Books	4	46	46	N	N	Master the Basics - Here are the Basics!	Elmer Towns has given us an impressive collection of the basics of Sunday School teaching.  This should not surprise us since he is called Mr. Sunday School.  I attended a conference several years ago where Dr. Towns taught about teaching Sunday School.  Much of the material from his session is in this small book.  The reader will be pleased to discover that he gives pointers for teaching children, youth and adults - all levels of teaching are addressed in this book.  <br />The Foreword of the book states Dr. Towns' qualifications for writing this book.  He teaches a 2,000 member Sunday School class.  He has taught adult, youth, and children's Sunday School classes in the past.  He has taught in Sunday School conferences in each of the 50 United States.  The man is sold on Sunday School.  <br />Towns' begins his book addressing readers who do not feel they can teach Sunday School.  He is convinced that most anyone can take an active role in the Sunday School ministry of the church.  From there he looks at the teaching task itself.  From lesson prep to relational evangelism, he covers all aspects of teaching (The chapters on Effective Discussion, Effective Lecture, &amp; Effective Story are very good).  He includes chapters on creating an inviting atmosphere for your class, understanding your learners, reviewing previous lessons, accountability, Scripture memorization, and lesson application.  He gives the reader pointers for teaching children, youth, and adults.  <br />Purpose!  He focuses on the four-fold purpose of Sunday School - Reaching, teaching, winning, caring.  He stresses the importance of mastering the basics and then applying the basics to one's teaching in a balanced way.  He also stresses the importance of prayer in the life of the teacher.  <br />One of the things that impressed me the most with Towns' book is that he does not focus on himself, or his own Sunday School teaching experience.  Rather than speaking of himself, he refers the reader to thepeople from whom he learned (and applied) the skills necessary to be a strong Sunday School teacher/leader.  He identifies success in others and how it applies to us.  I was very impressed that Mr. Sunday School gave me his sources rather than himself.  Does the word \\"humility\\" come to mind?  <br />Two things surprised me in this book.  The first is a negative; the second is a positive.  First, Towns' mentions that there are a variety of learning styles, but he never expounds on them.  That would fall more into the category of learning than teaching.  However, it would have been nice to have a summary of this data.  The second is that Towns' gives us a section on classroom discipline.  This is better understood as classroom management, or classroom control, and is more often an issue with children and youth classes.  Still, I was surprised that he covered the topic in this book.  <br />Some readers may be put off by occasional advertisements for Gospel Light products.  This did not bother me in the least.  I can only recall two instances of this.  Both were qualified - If you are not currently using an alternative product with similar features.  It is almost inconsequential, but I thought I would mention it anyway.  <br />In the final analysis, this is a very good, albeit brief, book on teaching Sunday School.  It irks me fiercely to read someone say, \\"If you apply this book to your Sunday School class, you will grow beyond your wildest dreams.\\"  So, I won't say that.  However, I must say that the application of Towns' instruction will probably help you to learn and grow as a teacher and the extent to which you learn and grow; your class should learn and grow too.  I will probably get a copy of this book for all my Sunday School teachers.  I think you will enjoy this book as well.	2002-11-29
US	51964687	R2S70F40O6AIR8	031020030X	905617659	Messiah in the Old Testament, The	Books	4	58	58	N	N	Fascinating study of the Messiah in the Old Testament!	Walter Kaiser, Jr. has given us a very rich study regarding the Messiah.  His study is very specific and unique.  He focuses only on passages that deal with direct prophecies/predictions of the coming Messiah.  He steers clear of typology, which can sometimes be too subjective.  His approach is chronological.  He begins with the Pentateuch and shows us the foundation of predictions of the Messiah that God revealed in the earliest of His revelations.  He proceeds to show the reader how subsequent writers of Holy Scripture built upon this foundation and developed themes of the Messiah (e.g. Prophet, Priest, King, Servant, etc.).  He follows prophecies of the Messiah through different eras of Israel's history.  When he gets to the prophets themselves, he groups them by the century in which they prophesied.  So, the earliest parts of this book give us prophesies of the Messiah in the order that they come in our English translations of the Old Testament.  The prophets, however, are not necessarily addressed in our biblical order, as their works do not appear in chronological order in our English transations.  <br />I wish I could say this study was for everyone - I do believe it would be beneficial reading for everyone.  Kaiser's study is deep, and sometimes technical.  It helps to have a basic understanding of hermeneutics (biblical interpretation) before beginning this book.  There are a couple of places where he discusses aspects of Hebrew grammar - the gist is attainable if the reader will press on through these brief sections.  So, it is readable, but some things will be outside the grasp of the average reader.  Kaiser does not overwhelm one with the technical aspects of his research, but it is sometimes present.  <br />There is another aspect of this book that may trouble some readers.  Kaiser deals with the Hebrew text.  In some places his conclusions are based on personal translations that imply that the English translations are actually mistranslations.  Certaingroups of Christians, especially the \\"King James\\" only crowd, will have problems with this approach.  Kaiser seems to tackle the subject with a belief in the inspiration of Scripture, but not with the belief in the inspiration of the translators of Scripture.  I agree with him at this point, but am concerned that it may cause difficulties for young believers.  <br />From the other reviews of this book, it is evident that some Jewish people will have problems with this study.  It is unfortunate.  Kaiser makes little attempt to convert anyone - it is not an overt aspect of his work.  He simply examines the evidence and writes about his findings.  Some of the passages he examines are obscure, some are more commonly understood as referring to the Messiah.  Kaiser is not shy about quoting from the Jewish Targums, those that predate the life of Jesus, and showing where pre-Christian Jewish understandings of the Messiah were.  <br />All in all, this is an excellent study.  I came away from this book with a deeper knowledge of how thoroughly God predicted the coming Messiah to the Jewish people.  I appreciate more deeply the atoning sacrifice of the Messiah - His death in my place.  Kaiser does not connect all the prophecies to their corresponding fulfillments in the New Testament.  When I taught a series based on Kaiser's work I traced every New Testament connection that I could find.  It is almost overwhelming to see how the New Testament shows Jesus as the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecies about the coming Messiah.  Such a study will enrich one's faith!	2002-11-22
US	51964687	R3DY1GCIIN3MS5	1400300525	307367665	Secrets of the Vine for Little Ones	Books	5	5	5	N	N	What a little gem!	Secrets of the Vine for Little Ones is a precious little book.  We bought it for our daughter when she was five months old.  Hey, it's never too early to start laying the foundation!  <br />The book is constructed of study board pages - they have held up very well to six months from our baby.  The artwork is superb - every page seems captivating for our baby.  The simplification of Wilkinson's \\"Secrets of the Vine\\" is masterfully accomplished - every line rhymes.  The first page of text gives the reader the New King James Version of John 15:1-2, 5, 8, and 16.  <br />The thing I like best about this book is that every time I read it to my little girl I get a refresher of the Secrets of the Vine myself.  It is a wonderful reminder to me that I am to bear fruit for God's glory - I hope and pray that my daughter will be a part of that harvest.  <br />I heartily recommend Secrets of the Vine for Little Ones!	2002-11-19
US	51964687	R3LYHG5A996VN0	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	2	26	39	N	N	I wanted to give it 5 stars!	I have been waiting for years for this book to be written. I knew that Warren, or someone else, would write a book with this title and with this focus. Not only had I been waiting for years, I had hoped it would be a great book. However, it is not all that I had hoped it would be. <br />Warren has given us some very good information, but it is not all good. In fact, one item may be tragic. In the reading for the seventh day, Warren shares what is required to become a Christian - at least he tries to do so. He quotes one Scripture and directs the reader in a simple prayer. Then he proclaims that the reader is now a Christian. The sadness I felt came from the fact that Warren excludes the necessity of repentance from the salvation experience. This message, although probably unintentionally, does not match the clear teaching of Scripture. In this instance, the reader may be misled at a most crucial juncture in life. If you were thinking of giving this book to a non-Christian friend, please do not choose this book. <br />I sincerely hope that Warren will revise this section in subsequent editions of this book. <br />I really had hoped this book would be worthy of five stars. I cannot, with good conscience, give it more than two stars. I would recommend J.I. Packer's book &quot;God's Plans for You&quot; as a good alternative to Warren's book.	2002-11-14
US	51964687	R17Y8FNSRDMD5V	0156835800	948591419	Socrates, Buddha, Confucius, Jesus: From The Great Philosophers, Vol. 1	Books	2	25	51	N	N	Interesting idea, but is it trustworthy scholarship?	Karl Jaspers has undertaken an interesting study in the little book.  He looks at the teachings of four men who have had the most far-reaching impact on our world.  He claims that the greatness of their influence is measured in centuries as well as globally.  The four great men he chose for this book are, as the title suggests, Socrates, Buddha, Confucius and Jesus.  He entertained the thought of including Mohammed but chose not to.  He explains that Mohammed \\"might be comparable in historical importance but not in individual depth (p. 87).&quot;  One other interesting insight comes from Jaspers on the same page.  We have no writings from any of the four themselves - what we do have comes from their disciples after they died.  <br />So much for the interesting, now for the question of trustworthiness.  <br />Jaspers examined the biblical accounts of Jesus through the lens of higher criticism.  In other words, Jaspers did not deal with the biblical text itself when he studied Jesus, he dealt with the text after sifting through what others thought was truly the teaching of Jesus.  The reason this poses a problem is important to all readers, not merely to Christians.  If he did not take the teachings of Jesus (as recorded by his disciples) at face value, did he take the teachings of Socrates, Buddha and Confucius (as recorded by their disciples) at face value?  Is the reader really getting Socrates, Buddha, Confucius and Jesus, or is the reader getting Karl Jaspers?  Knowing the aspects of Jesus' teachings that have been ignored in this study, and their importance to understanding Jesus' view of himself and the world around him, makes me wonder what we may have lost, in this study, from the other three great men included here.  <br />This book is a very interesting idea.  But, is it trustworthy scholarship?  Not in my humble opinion.  However, those who do not wish to sift through the original writings will inevitably want to read Jasper's abridgement of those writings.  This may be to the readers' benefit, or to their detriment.	2002-11-14
US	51964687	R1MSF09W7H83F7	1881273156	277335936	The Five Love Languages: How to Express Heartfelt Commitment to Your Mate	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Showing love and being heard!	Gary Chapman has written a very important work - important for everyone who wants to have a healthy relationship with his or her spouse.  His premise is simple: There are five major ways in which people receive (or feel) loved.  Thus, they are The Five Love Languages.  Everyone has a love langauage through which they feel loved and everyone can become fluent in each of the five to ensure that their spouse too feels loved too.  <br />When I finished reading this book, I thought that the information it contained should have been common sense.  However, common sense is not so common these days.  Applying this book to ones marriage is not rocket science.  The one barrier we all face is that we tend to try to show love in the way we receive it, which is not always how our spouse receives it.  It takes some work, but anyone can do it.  <br />The Five Love Languages are: Words of Affirmation, Quality Time, Receiving Gifts, Acts of Service, and Physical Touch.  <br />Chapman based these ideas on many years of marriage counseling.  He also examined how love is expressed in various cultures.  Looking at the big picture of human relationships, he derived The Five Love Languages.  <br />In my opinion, every marriage can benefit from the information contained in this slim book.  My wife and I read it together before we got married so that we could start strong.  The prinicples in this book have helped us to understand each other and focus on each other to ensure we are sending message of love that the other will clearly understand.  Give it a try - I'm certain your spouse will be glad you did.	2002-11-02
US	51964687	R3LN448K7MPMWN	1576738469	445454084	The Protector (O'Malley #4)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Henderson's most suspenseful story yet!	The Protector is Dee's most suspenseful book yet.  I'll admit, I wasn't thrilled with a book about firefighters, but my wife and I are reading the whole O'Malley series together.  I read the first chapter and then set it down for a few days.  However, she hooked me in chapter three and I could hardly put the book down after that.  For about 300 pages she kept me wondering who the arsonist was.  <br />Before The Protector, my favorite O'Malley book was The Negotiator.  They're close for me, but I think The Protector is the better book overall.  I base this on a few of things.  <br />1. The Negotiator had a few scenes that were in place for nothing more than developing the romance aspects of the story - I do not recall any scenes in The Protector that did not further the mystery as well as the romance aspects of the book.  <br />2. In The Protector, Henderson introduces fewer characters, but keeps the suspense and hides the villain's identity longer than in The Negotiator.  In The Negotiator the mystery was solved early enough that the book continued on anti-climacticly.  The Protector takes you right up to the end.  <br />3. I finished The Protector with a greater appreciation for firefighters.  This is the first of Henderson's books that has led me to a deeper appreciation of others.  Cassie is thinking of Jack working during the Christmas holiday.  Henderson was thoughtful enough to point out that firefighters not only rescue people and save lives during the holidays, but by so doing preserve the ability of their families to experience the holidays with joyous celebration rather than grief and mourning.  I had never before thought about their work in that way.  <br />As for characters...<br />1. Jack O'Malley is a well-developed character.  However, Marcus is still my favorite of the O'Malley men thus far introduced.  <br />2. Cassie, Jack's special interest.  She is a wonderful character.  She was a firefighter who was injured in a fire.  She now adapts to burn scars and loss of hearing in one ear.  The reality (self-consciousness) she now deals with was well-written.  She's also dealing with making a living as something other than a firefighter - the job she loved.  She's a very likable character.  <br />The storyline is pretty good all the way through.  Henderson has obviously done some research for the book.  The arsonist is angry and trying to send a message.  He uses a series of words at different fires.  The message is analyzed by different characters as the story develops.  This allows the reader to try to solve, not only the mystery, but also the riddle and get deeper into the story.  This may be Henderson's most developed storyline as well.  <br />This O'Malley story deals more with Jack and his friends and co-workers than it does the O'Malley family getting together to solve the mystery/problem.  I really like the O'Malley family that Henderson has created.  I missed them in this novel, but I still enjoyed the book a great deal.  <br />I really think you'll enjoy this book.  Please give it a try.  However, you may want to start with The Negotiator if you haven't read any of the O'Malley books yet.	2002-10-31
US	51964687	R3B6LC9D9742NV	0310286700	14879080	Systematic Theology: An Introduction to Biblical Doctrine	Books	4	127	144	N	N	More Questions Than Answers	Grudem's Systematic Theology was required reading for my theology classes in Seminary.  I must say that I enjoyed reading his work, even though I do not sympathize with Calvinism.  I think that the most beneficial aspect of this work is that it is pretty easy reading (easy reading for theology anyway).<br />Grudem has included several features that make this one of the best Systematic Theologies in print today.<br />* He provides the reader with clear and understandable definitions of the theological terms he uses.<br />* He closes each chapter with Questions for Personal Application.<br />* In addition to suggestions for further reading for each topic, he lists parallel sections in other systematic theologies from a variety of perspectives (Anglican, Arminian, Baptist, Dispensational, Lutheran, Reformed, Renewal, and Roman Catholic).<br />* Each chapter has a Scripture Memory Passage related to the chapter topic.<br />* He includes a hymn that goes along with the topic of each chapter.<br />The main weakness of this work is the same weakness present in every systematic theology I have read.  Namely, that the writer presents his system without addressing the passages of Scripture that do not easily fit in with his system.  I finished the book with more than two hundred questions, wondering how Grudem would respond.  Most of the questions were formed directly from Scriptures that seem to be in disagreement with Grudem's system.<br />Overall, I would still recommend this systematic theology.  However, I would recommend that the reader ask questions of the text and then seek the answers in the Bible.  This is how we grow in our understanding of theology.  Even if you are not a Calvinist, this book will aid you in understanding theology.	2002-10-22
US	51964687	R15X6HQSGEV4YB	0801090393	786038827	Rethinking the Church: A Challenge to Creative Redesign in an Age of Transition	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Ask the right questions, get the right answers!	Rethinking the Church by James Emery White is the book to read when it comes to understanding why your church is not growing.  The primary strength of this book is that it asks the right questions - it leads the reader to ask the right questions about his or her church.  The secondary strength of this book is that it does not prescribe one set answer, one model of doing church, as the only possible answer for the absence of growth in one's church growth.<br />Based on his experience of starting a church that reaches lost people, White delineates questions that need to be asked by every church.  Even though the book was written in 1997, I found the questions to be accurate today.  The questions White leads the reader to ask in the areas of Purpose/Vision, Evangelism, Discipleship, Ministry, Worship, Leadership Structure, and Community seem to me to be timeless questions.  The value of answering these questions honestly and applying the answers thoroughly cannot be overstated.<br />When reading this book, the discerning reader will understand the style of worship used in White's church.  The beauty of it all is that White does not try to force the worship style of his church upon the reader's church.  However, he does stress the importance of using a worship style that is relevant to the lost people in your community.<br />I would recommend this book to everyone in church leadership.  It will help you to understand the context in which you minister, and, hopefully, how to minister better in that context.	2002-10-15
US	51964687	RT9HZQSEKQHSA	0764420313	877852927	Disciple-Making Teachers	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Are you an effective teacher?	Josh Hunt has done an excellent job with this book. Two very strong benefits the reader will glean from this book are 9 Types of Questions and what it means to Review in a Bible Study context. The benefits from understanding and applying these two sections of Hunt's work will be great and teachers will find they are becoming more effective in teaching the Bible.	2002-10-12
US	51964687	R11RYYLVYNDVGX	0802434053	140419621	Lasting Love: How to Avoid Marital Failure	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Great truths for marriage, but lackluster!	I looked forward to reading \\"Lasting Love.\\"  I had hoped to find the book to be as good as Alistair Begg's sermons.  He comes across wonderfully when speaking, but this book seemed lackluster to me.  <br />Begg tackles the subject of marriage from the Bible, and rightly so, for God designed marriage.  I believe he has written about marriage with biblical accuracy.  Begg draws his examples from more than 20 years of counseling couples as a pastor.  And, he has addressed many of the social issues related to marriage.  I especially like the way he deals with the issue of submissive wives - addressing correctly the passage vs. feminist perversions of it.  <br />The flow of the book is straightforward: <br />The reader gets an introduction to the fact that we have marriage problems that must be addressed.  This is followed by a chapter on the prospects of staying single, rather than getting married.  I felt this chapter needed more work.  Begg does stay biblical, but I felt there is more to what the Bible says about this topic than I got.  The third chapter was very good.  Begg provides a commentary on the traditional wedding vows.  I have never seen this done and I loved it.  This is followed by a chapter on the wife's role in the marriage and then one on the man's role in the marriage.  The chapter on the man's role is excellent and should be read by every man.  Another chapter is on pulling weeds in your marriage and it is insightful.  The final chapter is on planting hedges - taking proactive steps to strengthen your marriage.  <br />Overall this book has some great biblical advice for marriage.  However, it seemed to be lacking something.  This could be due to the fact that Begg began this work as a prolonged \\"note to self\\" about keeping his own marriage strong.  Perhaps I am accustomed to hearing his Scottish accent and did not get it from the words of his book.  Either way, I would still recommend this book to married couples and singles contemplating marriage.  Ijust want to forewarn the reader that it is not the most dynamic book they will read about marriage.  The content is pretty solid though.  <br />If you have never heard Alistair Begg preach,...listen to one of his sermons.  He is the best preacher on the radio today.  You will enjoy his preaching!	2002-10-06
US	51964687	REXIAMO3ZYDMH	0785273425	888112834	The Sacred Romance: Drawing Closer to the Heart of God	Books	5	83	84	N	N	A cup of cool water on a hot day!	The Sacred Romance was such a refreshing read.  Perhaps it was just the timing in which I read the book, but I would recommend it to everyone.  Here's why: <br />The opening chapter of the book (The Lost Life of the Heart) spoke to me very strongly - it made my heart pound.  I have never had a book do that to me before.  I was the one the authors wrote about in the first chapter.  It describes what happens when we come to a point of being burned out in our spiritual life - or perhaps is it better to say overwhelmed by the weight of everything around us.  It is so easy to be distracted into focusing on our own little stories.  <br />The authors guide the reader to remember that God is up to something big.  He is working out in history His own big story.  Each of our lives is a little story within that big story.  However, so many people get caught up in their own little story, that they forget that God has a role for them in His big story.  This causes us to lose heart along the way.  Our problems overwhelm us when we forget God's big story.  <br />Okay, but why is this book so good at reminding us of that?  <br />The authors paint the picture of a wild God - the Lover of our souls who pursues us restlessly.  They look thoroughly at both the Old Testament and the New Testament.  But, this book isn't preachy.  The authors go beyond Scripture, while staying Scriptural.  They look at Literature and Cinema, old and new.  What is this longing presented to us throughout history - why all the stories of the lost love pursued by her lover?  Because, deep down inside, we all want to be loved and pursued.  The authors show us that the Bible presents us with the story of the Lover of our souls pursuing us.  God longs to meet our deepest needs.  The authors claim that the intimacy God desires to share with us is \\"an intimacy much more sensuous, much more exotic than sex itself\\" (p. 161).  <br />Ask yourself what the following names have to do with God.  Forrest Gump, A River Runs Through It, When Harry Met Sally, Robert Frost, Soren Kierkegaard, The Hobbit, Cinderella, Alice In Wonderland, Henry V, Pilgrim's Progress, and Helen of Troy.  These, and more, are used to teach us what God wants from us.  <br />Chapter 12 (Coming Home) was worth the price of the book.  <br />I have only one negative comment.  I was frustrated by the incomplete bibliography.  Hey, it's the scholar in me.  <br />I loved this book so much that I bought a copy for every Sunday School teacher that teaches under my ministry.  This is the best book on the overall message of the Bible that I have ever read.  I believe everyone, not only Christians, should read this book.  I believe it will help non-Christians see what Christians believe, even if the non-Christians don't agree with our beliefs.  It will be worth your time and money!	2002-10-01
US	51964687	R1X1FH6GSJ9B34	0898700744	638901586	Prayer	Books	3	62	71	N	N	Way over my head!	I was very much looking forward to Prayer by Hans Urs von Balthasar.  While I grew up in the Christian tradition, my particular flavor did not practice contemplative prayer.  So, I was looking to expand my horizons.  This book came to me highly recommended.  However, I must tell the readers of this review that this in no introductory text on prayer.  It is nowhere near easy reading.  <br />The book is well written, that is certain.  It is as much a systematic theology as it is a book on prayer.  I graduated from seminary with a Master of Divinity and still found this book to be dense reading.  Balthasar is no foreigner to philosophy and uses the language of philosophy generously.  In fact, I found him hard to follow at times.  <br />I am glad that I read this book.  I value any insight I can gain to grow in my own prayer pilgrimage.  But, be forewarned, this is no easy read on prayer.  I hope to find a better introduction to contemplative prayer.	2002-09-15
US	51964687	R1L1CP8BR0FGEP	0785266046	274543862	What a Difference a Daddy Makes: The Indelible Imprint a Dad Leaves on His Daughter's Life	Books	5	178	181	N	N	Fatherhood 101 - How to Master Raising a Daughter	I heard Dr. Kevin Leman discuss What a Difference a Daddy Makes on Focus on the Family.  At the end of the hour, I knew I had to buy and read this book.  I cannot say enough good things about it.  If I could give it six stars, I would.  <br />There were several chapters in the book that made me think, &quot;This chapter alone is worth the price of the book.&quot;  I think my favorite was chapter five - A Good Dad.  Dr. Leman offers the encouragement that a dad doesn't need to be a great dad, just a good dad who is present and consistent.  Super daddy once in a great while isn't the key.  Rather, good dad in generous and frequent doses is the key to raising a well-adjusted daughter.  <br />Dr. Leman offers this profile of a &quot;Good Father:&quot;<BR>1. A Father who is there <BR>2. A Father who understands <BR>3. A Father who honors his wife <BR>4. A Father who believes in his daughter <BR>5. A Father who lets his daughter hurt <br />I could hardly believe number five, until I read what Dr. Leman had to say to explain himself.  <br />Dr. Leman's book endeared itself to me.  His writing style is pleasant and straightforward.  He shares many stories from his own family to illustrate his points.  One of the greatest aspects of the book is that he shares some of his own personal failures as a daddy, not just his victories.  He does not come off as one who is perfect telling others that they should be perfect too.  <br />What a Difference a Daddy Makes covers a great deal of territory.  The final four chapters are devoted to addressing difficulties that fathers will face.  It was valuable reading, especially when he addressed stages of development that a father will need to know about to interact with both his daughter and his wife.  <br />I would be amiss not to mention that this is a book about parenting for both fathers and mothers, daughters and sons.  The focus is primarily on the father-daughter relationship, but periodic sections deal with the mother-son relationship as well.  This book will be profitable reading for all parents.  <br />I certainly enjoyed this book.  It taught me several things I did not yet know.  It affirmed in me many things I was already thinking about in rearing my daughter.  This book will lift your spirits and encourage you as a parent.  Enjoy!	2002-09-15
US	51964687	R3EBUFAGJHSE6D	0877790272	910127685	Merriam-Webster's Medical Desk Dictionary with CD-ROM	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Transcriptionist's Friend!	My wife just returned to doing medical transcription work from home.  We needed a medical dictionary for the words she was not familiar with.  We opted for Merriam-Webster's Medical Dictionary.  We are very pleased with this medical dictionary, primarily because it is bundled with the CD-ROM.  <br />The dictionary itself contains 57,000 medical terms with understandable definitions.  The definitions are more limited than in Dorland's Illustrated Medical Dictionary.  For example, the MW definition of sclerosis includes reference to one other disease (multiple sclerosis).  Dorland's definition of sclerosis includes references to about 40 varieties of sclerosis (including brief explanations of each).  Therefore, the MW medical dictionary is not the most exhaustive on the market.  It certainly would not do for a Doctor, but it is quite sufficient for a home dictionary.  The MW medical dictionary is not illustrated, nor does it include abbreviations for the terms defined.  <br />We were very glad to find the MW bundled with the CD-ROM.  The CD version of the dictionary includes a search engine.  So, when doing transcription, the search engine can be used on the dictionary without having to pull out a book and sift through 57,000 definitions.  This is a great bonus.  The CD also includes abbreviations for the medical terms.  They even included a feature allowing you to hear the word pronounced correctly.  I only found one drawback to the search engine.  When looking at the list of terms you have to click on a term to see the definition.  Sometimes two words are spelled similarly and sound nearly the same.  If the word you clicked on is not the word you need, you have to clear the search and start over - there is no way to return to the list of words from your original query.  At least, we have not found a way to do so.  <br />Overall, the Merriam-Webster's Medical Dictionary has met our needs.  We are pleased with the purchase.	2002-09-06
US	51964687	R1MF20AW55UI9	0688110231	410061587	Ready & Waiting: 160 All New Recipes to Make in the Slow Cooker	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The best Home-cooked meals in your slow cooker!	It seems that life is getting busier by the day.  So many things scream for our attention that good home-cooked meals seem to be a distant memory.  But, isn't that why they invented crock pot cooking!  Throw in the ingredients, plug it in, come home after work and your piping-hot meal is ready to be eaten.  That's the idea anyway.  Unfortunately, many people have not had a great deal of success with their slow cookers.  I'm not so sure that the source of the problem does not lie in the cookbooks available for slow cookers and crock-pots.  <br />I have found Ready and Waiting by Rick Rodgers to be a great slow cooker cookbook.  Rick begins the cookbook with a section that explains that slow cookers are not entirely hands-off cookers.  The effort you put into preparing your ingredients directly effects the outcome of the meal.  So far, he has proven himself right in my kitchen.  Rick gives a great run-down on the care and cleaning of slow cookers as well as cooking times for different vegetables, using herbs and spices for all-day cooking, and using milk products in all-day cooking.  <br />After the Introduction the cookbook contains many of the sections found in other cookbooks.  Everything from Dips and Appetizers to Main Dishes to Desserts can be fixed in your crock-pot.  I was pretty surprised to find bread recipes for the crock-pot, but Rick includes about a dozen recipes for various types of bread.  <br />I have not tried all 160 recipes in this cookbook.  The ones I have tried have turned out well.  Among my favorites are: Garlic and Rosemary Focaccia, Cajun Pecans, Black Bean and Smoked Turkey Soup and Ravioli Casserole.  My wife fixed Joy's Mexican Pot Roast today and it was great too.  <br />Ready and Waiting has added a new dimension to our kitchen.  I think every cook will enjoy using a slow cooker once some basics are established for using one correctly.  I know we enjoy cooking in our slow cooker - we also enjoy eating the results.  <br />Bon Appetite!	2002-09-01
US	51964687	R2XM3O52VDP3JJ	0764422413	567840196	Mastering Money in Your Marriage (Family Life Homebuilders Couples (Group))	Books	1	3	16	N	N	Lacking the Highest Priority!	I purchased a copy of Mastering Money in Your Marriage to preview for use in a Newly Wed Sunday School class.  I wish I had looked more closely before purchasing the book.  I was hoping for a book that would really express to young couples how God truly desires them to use their money.  This book does cover some important aspects of money management.  However, the most important aspect of Christian financial management is absent.  God's word clearly teaches that every Christian should give a tithe of their income to the church.  This book does not focus on the importance of the tithe in a Christian marriage.  The author refers to charitable giving in a few places - he even uses the word tithe a few times.  However, he does not explain what the tithe is, nor does he look at passages of Scripture that teach the tithe.  I will return this book because it is inadequate for teaching how God truly desires for a couple to honor Him with their money.	2002-08-22
US	51964687	R2YDBQ7BA1ZJXB	0310383315	746033982	Tithing	Books	3	5	16	N	N	Truly not a bad book!	I finished reading this book a couple of days ago.  I was pretty pleased with Kendall's treatment of the tithe in Scripture.  I think he is correct in his treatment of the tithe.  But, I do not think he goes far enough in stressing why God instituted the tithe.  <br />I was somewhat disappointed by Kendall's tendency to run tangents that really did not contribute to his point.  He did this on a few occasions.  Still, it did not take away from his central point that God's people tithed before the Mosaic Law and they should continue to tithe after Christ's work on earth was completed.  <br />As for the negative comments of the &quot;theologian&quot; in his review.  I too am a theologian, though not yet a Ph.D.  I am unconvinced by his stated reasons that Kendall's book is wrong.  After I read his book, I will adequately review it as well.  Should the church teach tithing?  I answer a resounding yes.  But, the church should teach more than tithing as well.  Kendall does state this in his book, though not strongly.  <br />Kendall does a good job of addressing the issue of Law and Grace.  I think it would benefit most Christians to read this section alone.  Kendall is correct in denying the antinomian tendency to say that the New Testament nullifies the Old Testament.  Such a claim is not Biblical.  <br />Despite the other reviews, I think this book should be read by all Christians who do not tithe - and even by the one's who do.	2002-07-24
US	51964687	RU5ONMH5QULM9	157673577X	306852563	Danger In The Shadows	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Henderson's absolute best (to date anyway)!	I really think this is Dee Henderson's best book to date.  I read the first three O'Malley books before I read Danger in the Shadows.  I was 250 pages into the book before I decided Danger in the Shadows was better than The Negotiator.  But, it is.  So, if you like The O'Malley Series, you will love this book.  <br />Danger in the Shadows is the story of Sara Walsh (Richman) and her brother Dave (who plays a prominent role in the O'Malley Series).  Sara and her twin sister were kidnapped when they were children.  Sara survived the ordeal, but her sister did not.  So, Sara has been living with a ton of guilt her whole life.  She also lives in fear - of the dark, and of the man who still stalks her.  All this, her whole life, takes place under the smothering blanket of FBI protective surveillance.  <br />Enter Adam Black, retired pro football quarterback.  He and Sara fall in love, but she has a hard time letting anyone get very close.  Not only is her past haunting, her present is so encumbered by security that forming relationships is almost not worth it.  So, it's an interesting relationship from the beginning.  The tension of the situation is well written.  <br />We also see the depth of brotherly love and protection Dave provides for Sara.  He has devoted his life to her protection.  Yes, he is as imprisoned by the past as his sister.  <br />The book is very well written.  Henderson handles the kidnapping very well.  She gives the reader just enough detail to explain the trauma without developing the situation into something distasteful.  Most of what the reader deals with is Sara's reactions to the past after she becomes an adult.  <br />The theological issue, if you can call it that, is the tension between trusting God and fearing the unknown and uncontrollable.  Henderson has dealt with this struggle superbly.  <br />I highly recommend this book to every reader.  Whether one is a Christian or not, I think he or she will greatly enjoy this book.  I personally find it refreshing to read a book with no profanity.  Henderson's books are great that way.  Enjoy!	2002-07-13
US	51964687	R155KPZT4P8RRX	1566991978	711965992	Financial Meltdown in the Mainline? (Money Faith and Leadership)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Voice That Must Be Heard	&quot;Financial Meltdown in the Mainline?&quot; was written about 10 years ago.  Loren Mead, founder of the Alban Institute, applies more than 20 years of working with churches across denominations to this book.  He claims that the issue of church finance came up in the writing of each of his previous books, but that he did not directly address the issue in any of them.  He directly address church finances in this book.  More than that, he says what needs to be said without sugarcoating the truth.  <br />He looks at the financial crisis present in every denomination - churches, denominations, seminaries are all suffering.  The cause - Christians are not giving money as they should, nor are Christian leaders speaking accurately about the depth of the crisis.  Mead backs these claims up with hard data.  <br />I must admit, the first six chapters were pretty depressing.  Mead confirmed many of the suspicions I developed during my first two years serving as a church administrator.  <br />Underlying the financial crisis, Mead claims, is a spiritual crisis.  In short, Christians are serving money rather than God.  And Christian ministers are serving people rather than God (i.e., they do not speak the truth for fear of the reaction of their congregation).  <br />Mead is a strong advocate of endowments in the face of this financial crisis.  He offers practical guidelines for endowment management.  <br />Every Christian minister and lay person should read this book.  Perhaps the strength with which Mead paints the picture will bring the truth to light in a way that will draw out godly giving from all Christians.	2002-07-13
US	51964687	R3BQKNVKXT92VM	0553260111	561287091	The Bourne Identity (Bourne Trilogy No.1)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Parlez vous� Sprechen se	My best friend recommended The Bourne Identity to me fifteen years ago.  I should have read it then.  My French would have been fresher.  When I purchased this book, I did not realize that both French and German languages accompanied the English.  While the passages in foreign languages are very short, usually no more than one sentence, it is sometimes not clear from the context what is being said.  One passage, perhaps the longest in French, comes at an essential point in the story.  I did not follow the French - my high school French class was fifteen years ago.  About 50 pages later, the passage is explained.  While one need not be fluent in French and German to enjoy this novel, some familiarity with French would be helpful.  The amount written in German is much less.  In all, the story can probably be enjoyed by someone with no knowledge of French or German.  <br />The other reviews tell you plenty about the plot.  Suffice it to say Ludlum is a master storyteller.  Story-weaver would be more fitting.  This book has more twists and turns than a bowl full of spaghetti.  If I were a faster reader, I would not have been able to put it down.  This book is now the standard by which I judge the ability of other writers.  I would dare say that Trevanian, Clancy, and Deighton, do not write as engagingly as Ludlum.  He consistently hooked me at the beginning and ending of every chapter.  I was compelled to read further, to find out who Jason Bourne really was, why he knew the things he knew and did not know the things he did not know.  Where there some slow points?  Yes, but well written.  Does Ludlum repeat some things during the story?  Yes, but only in Bourne's attempt to unravel the mystery for himself.  Some reviewers felt it was over done.  I felt it added to the intensity, the urgency, of Bourne's dilemma.  <br />I will also add that his is one of the few novels that I have read that evoked a good number of emotional responses from me.  Particularly in the first section of the book, I was quite put off by Bourne and the things he would do to stay alive.  He was ruthlessly cruel, but develops into a character who is not bloodthirsty, rather selective in directing his undivided attention at people.  <br />Two other comments... <BR>...I thought the profanity used in this book was a bit much.  It is no Pulp Fiction, but the cursing was pretty heavy.  Were it not for the profanity, I would give this book five stars, three instead.  <BR>...On a technical note, unless I'm greatly mistaken, you cannot use a silencer on a revolver as Ludlum tells us several characters do.  <br />In the end, I have a feeling that anyone who likes adventure, mystery, and spy-craft genre novels will enjoy this book.  I wonder now why I waited 15 years to read it.  Oh, because they finally made a movie out of it (which I am certain cannot hold a candle to the book - movies never can).	2002-06-29
US	51964687	R3G19LMJ19VGH4	1576737535	244296406	The Truth Seeker (O'Malley #3)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	It didn't do it for me, but still not bad!	The Truth Seeker, book 3 of the O'Malley Series by Dee Henderson, was a pretty good read.  But, I'm only giving this one three stars.  This book, like it's predecessors, is something of a whodunit with elements of romance added.  I don't read much fiction, but I enjoyed the first two books of the O'Malley series (The Negotiator &amp; The Guardian) enough to buy this one too.  <br />The mystery aspect of this book unraveled early for me.  In fact, I was certain I knew whodunit as soon as the character was introduced.  Even with the answer to the mystery realized early, the book still held my interest.  There was an even greater mystery than the whodunit.  <br />The theological issue of this book is about the believability of the resurrection.  I wanted to see how Henderson handled the topic.  She handled it okay, but I was a little disappointed.  I was hoping for more depth.  <br />The character development in this book was interesting.  Quinn Diamond, a U.S. Marshal &amp; Montana rancher, is an interesting, even if self-contradictory at times, fellow.  His ranch is measured in miles, not acres.  That means he's stinking rich.  And, he spends money so carelessly, I wonder if he is a fool.  In fact, if one more O'Malley girl falls in love with a man who has more money than he can count, I will be convinced they are all gold-diggers.  <br />I did not find Henderson to have a pet word in this O'Malley tale (see my reviews of the first two).  However, I reached a point that I got tired of being told that one character after another ran his or her hands through his or her hair.  <br />In the end, I was somewhat disappointed in the book.  I will buy the fourth book and read it.  Mainly because I really like the O'Malley family.  Henderson is a good writer; I was just disappointed with the third book.  However, I do hope you enjoy it.  It seems all the other reviewers did.	2002-06-06
US	51964687	R1807YAOWGOF32	1576738833	569543544	The Dangerous Duty of Delight: Daring to Make God Your Greatest Desire (LifeChange Books)	Books	4	48	54	N	N	Dangerous?  Yes!  Dangerous Indeed!	The Dangerous Duty of Delight is a condensed version, a distillation (if you will), of John Piper's classic book Desiring God.  I read Desiring God while studying in seminary.  I must admit, it did not really convince me of his claim that every Christian should be a Christian Hedonist.  I do not disagree with Piper on this point.  However, his attention to detail was, I felt, too great in Desiring God.  He lost me in the minutia of his arguments.  <br />This brings me to the tiny little book with big impact - The Dangerous Duty of Delight.  If you will pardon the pun, this book is de-light version of Desiring God.  I found this book very readable, very agreeable, and very clear.  You get the great thinking of Piper without the minutia.  What could be better?  <br />Piper lays out his thinking on Christian Hedonism - the belief that every Christian should live for the fullest experience of pleasure possible (which is only found in living a life fully pleasing to God).  He is fond of the notion that our fault is not in seeking pleasure, but that we settle for being too easily pleased, thereby missing the depths of true pleasure that await us in deeply experiencing God.  After laying out the initial thoughts of Christian Hedonism, Piper applies the idea to four areas of life.  <br />I will confess to the reader of this review that I am not Piper's biggest fan.  I usually read Piper to keep me on my toes.  His strong and persuasive Calvinism (largely absent from this book) has not convinced me that Calvinism presents the complete and true teaching of the Bible.  However, reading authors with whom I disagree keeps me sharp.  That being said, I would recommend The Dangerous Duty of Delight to every reader.  Not because I am a fan of Piper, but because it is a wonderful, concise and understandable presentation of the truth that every Christian should pursue deepest fulfillment found only through deeply following God's instruction in the Bible.	2002-06-06
US	51964687	R11HYBQBCNJYA2	0825428890	13113218	701 Sentence Sermons : Attention-Getting Quotes for Church Signs, Bulletins, Newsletters, and Sermons	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Not bad, but not the most useful.	When our church added a new front sign on which to list church events and/or quaint sayings, I purchased a couple of books with such sayings.  701 Sentence Sermons was one of the books I purchased.  The sentence sermons are fine as far as content goes, but they are just a little too long for us.  So, if you have limited space on your sign, or a limited number of letters to use, this may not be the book for you.  Our church has found the book &quot;Forbidden Fruit Creates Many Jams&quot; to be a much more useful book.  Even still, 701 Sentence Sermons does offer a nice collection.	2002-06-04
US	51964687	R1E2BJ8AT5UECX	0385493746	13562820	The Celtic Way of Prayer: The Recovery of the Religious Imagination	Books	4	85	85	N	N	Prayer is every step, every breath.	Wow!  This book is not what I expected.  I was looking for a &quot;how to&quot; on prayer the &quot;celtic way.&quot;  What I got was a deep, and sometimes profound, look at prayer as a way of life.  This book is not about sitting down to pray.  It is about praying - morning, noon and night.  <br />I was especially moved by the focus on the trinity and the cross in the prayer of the celtic people.  De Waal devotes a chapter to each of these topics.  She thoroughly demonstrates what she has to say, what she has come to practice in her own prayer life, with excellent examples from the prayers and poetry of celtic Christians and monks.  <br />Another aspect, the one that took me deeper and farther than I expected to go, is the celtic idea of journeying.  We journey through life (we all know this), and prayer is a living part of that journey (we often forget this).  So true is her statement, &quot;I shall not find Christ at the end of the journey unless he is with me along the way.&quot;  <br />The final chapter on praise in the celtic prayerlife was wonderful.  I found myself longing to hear the examples of praise put to music today.  I think it would enrich the worship at my own church.  <br />I enjoyed The Celtic Way of Prayer tremendously.  Coming from a Protestant background I disagreed with the celtic worship of Mary that is sometimes revealed in De Waal's examples.  However, anyone should be able to read beyond such a disagreement and be edified in their spiritual growth by applying the rich ideas from the celtic way of prayer in their own life.  There is much to be gleaned from this book.	2002-05-27
US	51964687	R2XO58TAQJ66ZP	0736910093	470525626	Bruce & Stan's Pocket Guide to Islam (Bruce & Stan's Pocket Guides)	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Not very deep!	I picked up Bruce & Stan's Pocket Guide to Islam to see if it would be useful for a class I was teaching at church.  This is the first book by Bruce & Stan that I have read, so I was not sure what to expect.  Their book is well organized, but the content rarely seemed to get beyond the surface of the topics they approach.  <br />I have read several books that compare and contrast Islam with Christianity from the Christian perspective.  This one is my least favorite.  It comes from a pair of academics (they studied about Islam following 9/11 and wrote a book about it).  This being true, their comments on further reading (called \\"digging deeper\\") suggest some good reads.  However, they plug their other books more frequently than I found necessary...  < <br />Bruce & Stan have written clearly, but not deeply.  Depth is what I was looking for...	2002-05-21
US	51964687	R1VB07CIR5OR1J	1576736423	399001011	The Guardian (The O'Malley Series #2)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A hero with a sense of honor and chivalry!	The Guardian, book 2 of the O'Malley Series by Dee Henderson, was a pretty good read. This book, like it's predecessor, is something of a whodunit with elements of romance added. I don't read much fiction, but I enjoyed the first book of the O'Malley series (The Negotiator) enough to buy this one too. My wife and I read this one concurrently too, and we enjoyed discussing the story as it developed. Our discussions allowed us quality time to get away from the mundane things in our lives and share some time together. <br />The opening of this book was pretty tough on my wife and I. We are new parents (our daughter just turned four months). Dee Henderson describes an episode from Marcus O'Malley's childhood that really hooked into us. We see things differently as first time parents, and the beginning of this book hit us. After the opening scene, we find Marcus has grown up and is a U.S. Marshal. A murder takes place and he's involved in the investigation. Henderson gives us more insight into the killer in this book than she did in The Negotiator, so we figured out the details earlier in this story. So, again, the ending was anti-climactic to us. <br />The theological issue of this book is about prayer - specifically, when it seems that God doesn't answer our prayers. She handles the topic pretty well, but it is not overt, nor cumbersome. The story never lags for her to make her point. <br />I continue to enjoy the O'Malley family. Henderson has me hooked on getting to know them all. Marcus is a good character, a genuine good guy with some issues to resolve. Henderson gives us a hero with honor and a sense of chivalry. <br />My nagging question from The Negotiator was answered in this novel. It involved Dave - why does a Brit work for the FBI. He's not a Brit, he just grew up across the pond. His unnumbered millions are, as of yet, unexplained though. <br />The vocabulary of the characters is better in The Guardian than it was in The Negotiator. The dialogue seemed morerealistic to me most of the way through, and Henderson did not seem to have a \\"pet\\" word in this book. I can only recall the word \\"roil\\" appearing once in this one (see my review of The Negotiator for more info on \\"roil\\"). <br />In The Negotiator, Henderson really did a great job of developing a sense of joy when the O'Malley's got together. That feeling was not as developed in this book, at least it didn't stick out in my mind when reading this one. However, the big trait of the \\"family\\" in this book was loyalty - the family sticks together. As the oldest O'Malley, Marcus is the guardian of the family - and his identity is largely tied up in that role. He is a well-written character. <br />In the end, I really liked the book. I went right out and bought the third book of the O'Malley series. Again, I think that most readers, Christian or not, will enjoy reading it.	2002-05-21
US	51964687	R3D4D1H46EDACL	1576738191	224811550	The Negotiator (O'Malley Series, Book 1)	Books	4	8	15	N	N	Joy in the midst of adversity, a good read.	The Negotiator is a fine book.  It is pretty good in the whodunit category.  It also contains elements of romance, but it's not dripping with it.  I don't read much fiction, but I really enjoyed this book.  My wife and I read it concurrently.  It was very nice to be able to sit down together and discuss the story.  We both enjoyed sharing quality time, even if it was just to discuss characters in a work of fiction.  <br />The story starts out in a very engrossing situation.  The pace doesn't slow for quite some time.  However, it does slow toward the end.  In fact, my wife and I both thought the ending was anti-climactic.  <br />Dee Henderson tackles some pretty deep theological issues in this book.  I think she handles them well, but doesn't delve too deeply into the mysteries.  Personally, I'd love to have seen her flesh them out more, but this is a work of fiction, not a work of theology.  She handled them well within her storyline.  <br />The O'Malley Family is a great set-up.  And, I suspect the rest of the books in the series will be pretty good too.  I'm hoping to find time to read the rest of them.  Kate O'Malley, the negotiator, is an interesting character.  I did find her penchant for eating junk food to be a bit overdone - I would have a hard time believing that the picture on the book's cover would be fitting for someone with those eating habits.  Other than that, the character development is very good for Kate.  <br />Dave, on the other hand, is a bit less believable.  He speaks with a British accent, so we assume he is British.  However, the book never tells us how or why a Brit is working for the FBI.  Also, he's extremely wealthy (old money).  This provides for a couple of sections in the \\"romantic\\" development of the book that do little to progress the storyline.  They seemed extravagant to me.  Perhaps that comes from my realist personality.  <br />The story is very readable.  I did finally have to go to the dictionary to look up the word \\"roil.\\"Perhaps my vocabulary is too limited, but her heavy usage of this particular word struck me as odd.  I would have thought the editor might have caught the heavy usage and suggested something else.  <br />The one thing that struck me, and will stay with me when I read other works of fiction, is the way Henderson developed and showed the sense of joy of being with friends and family.  I cannot remember ever reading a story that made me feel the joy and happiness of the characters.  In fact, for me, the joy and happiness in the story were far more real that the worry and fear.  I wish more people focused on bring out joy in life, even in difficult times, when they write.  I wouldn't really classify this as a \\"feel good\\" book, but it will provide many occasions that bring this feeling to you.  <br />In the end, I really liked the book.  I think that most readers, Christian or not, will enjoy reading it.	2001-12-05
US	51964687	R24B7BCKQHP6C7	1576739791	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez: Bible Study	Books	3	36	39	N	N	Excellent content, lacks continuity	I wrote a glowing review of the Prayer of Jabez on December 13, 2000.  I gave it five stars and still consider it to be one of the best books on how to pray.  I was looking forward to the Prayer of Jabez Bible Study.  I could hardly wait until it was published.  Now, I have taught through the Bible Study with a small group at my church.  I'm ready now to review it for you.  <br />I found the study to have some excellent content.  Christians need to know the information contained in this study.  However, I found that the study lack continuity (thus my three star rating).  The study states that you can do the study without reading through the Prayer of Jabez at the same time.  Several members of our group took that advice.  I think it was detrimental to their study.  The book flows well and keeps you connected.  The study does not flow as well, is spread over four weeks, and doesn't keep you connected to the weekly theme very well.  I would definitely advise using the book with the study.  <br />One difficult part of the study is that there is no answer key.  Some of the Scripture references related to the questions did not seem to connect at all.  I even have the reprinted editions that Multnomah re-released after fixing the mistakes in the first printing.  I also used the leader's guide for the study.  The leader's guide doesn't reveal the author's thinking on all the questions either.  It does provide a basic guide to facilitating the small group, but not much more than that.  I had to write my own teaching plans for our group.  <br />One other criticism.  The study looks at the four sections of Jabez's prayer.  Wilkinson here fleshes out the biblical meaning of Blessing, Territory, Hand and Keep Me From Evil.  I think the study, and those going through the study, would have benefited from one more week dedicated to the exploration of what it means to be honorable in the eyes of God.  The book addresses it, but the study does not.  <br />Anyway, the study has greatcontent, even if it lacks continuity.  I would definitely recommend it.  I hope you enjoy it and I hope God will bless you indeed.	2001-12-01
US	51964687	R1Q27QXAW7VO5J	0849917301	94272465	The Prayer Of Jesus: Secrets to Real Intimacy With God	Books	3	12	27	N	N	Not my first choice of books on the Lord's Prayer	If Bruce Wilkinson had not written his great little book on the prayer of Jabez, Hank Hanegraaff would not have written this book on the prayer of Jesus. This little tome has several statements that are anti-Jabez - though they're subtle, polite and discrete. The discerning reader will find them easily.<BR>I expected the book to jump right in to a discussion of the Lord's Prayer. It did not. About one-third of the book is devoted to New Testament scriptures about prayer, mostly from the Gospels. That leaves only about 60 pages that deal specifically with the Lord's Prayer. To me, that made the title somewhat misleading. <BR>Wilkinson wrote the Prayer of Jabez with a great deal of personal testimony about how God had worked in his life. Hanegraaff does not write this way. I do not doubt that Hanegraaff is a praying man, but he does not offer testimony about how God has worked in his life because he devoted himself to praying the Prayer of Jesus. I believe this is important for the customer to know. <BR>If you want to read a book on the Lord's Prayer written by a man who has made a practice of praying the Lord's Prayer, I would suggest you buy Praying the Lord's Prayer for Spiritual Breakthrough by Elmer Towns. <BR>Hanegraaff's book does contain some useful information, but it is not my first choice of books on the Lord's Prayer.	2001-09-10
US	51964687	R1K9KMDM2IEZYW	0801021138	759753251	Old Wine in New Wineskins: Doctrinal Preaching in a Changing World	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great book on preacing, focuses on the doctrinal sermon	This book was required reading for one of my seminary preaching courses.  I'm so glad it was.  I really enjoyed the book and the insight the authors have into preaching doctrine in the modern world.<br />The book is divided into four sections: Understanding the Issues, Gathering the Doctrinal Contnet, Delivering Doctrine in Sermonic Form, and Getting it Done.<br />I found the third section, Delivering Doctrine in Sermonic Form, to be the most helpful.  The authors discuss four preaching styles: Expository, Topical, Narrative and Dramatic.  In this section they address changes in our culture and how different sermon styles meet the needs of different hearers.  Most preachers only use the first two styles, but the later two are equally valid and important.  The authors give some biblical basis for these styles.  I have ventured into the narrative sermon, but have yet to work with the dramatic style.<br />The final section on Getting it Done has some great info on keeping track of the sermons you've preached in order to make sure you're not ignoring some doctrines and focusing too heavily on others.  It's a great help the authors provide in this section.<br />Anyway, variety is the spice of life.  Variety in sermon delivery styles will help to spice up the worship service and keep your people interested - wondering what you'll be doing this week.  Anticipation - it's a good thing.<br />So, if your pastor's preaching needs a little spicing up, get him a copy of this book.  Tell him it's a hint.  I think he'll enjoy the book, though maybe not the hint.	2001-08-21
US	51964687	RC8TMWJJXSQ3J	0830815236	546450698	Old Testament Theology	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	Comprehensive, scholarly, readable...	I bought this book when I took Dr. House's course on Old Testament Theology during my seminary studies.  When I read back through the book, I hear his voice.  His writing is as clear as his teaching - it is excellent.  Even more excellent is this work that probes Old Testament theology from a conservative, evangelical point of view.  He explains his methodology as he unfolds the historical development of the discipline.  Around page 90, he enters the Scriptures at Genesis 1.  He approaches the Old Testament in the Hebrew order, since that would be the order from which Jesus, the Apostles, and the early church would have read and understood it.  This approach does make a difference, as the Hebrew ordering is based more on literary genre than is the Christian ordering of the books.  House derives sound conclusions throughout this presentation of his field.  This book helped me to put together many key themes of the Old Testament and see how they continued to work into the New Testament.  An example: in Genesis 1, God is presented as the Creator.  House's book helps one to see the theological arguments of Isaiah and the Psalmist(s), among others, who base their teachings, praise and prophecy on the fact that God created.  Do not let the length of the book intimidate you - it is well worth the read.  It is far better than any other book I have read on Old Testament Theology or Old Testament thematic study.	2000-12-15
US	51964687	R1PUVILE3OI5OU	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Couldn't put it down!	&quot;The Prayer of Jabez&quot; was given to me today.  I read it cover to cover, in one sitting.  This little book is full of truth about the life of powerful prayer.  I have experienced times in my life when there was no doubt that God was working through me, but I never found a common-thread connection between them.  This book clearly lays out the Biblical principles of prayer that go hand-in-hand with such a God-filled life - a life that is undeniably used by God to touch the lives of others.  Dr. Wilkinson has explained more clearly than anyone I have ever read, or heard, the application of these principles.  Get this book, read it, apply it - you will never be the same.  One additional note - &quot;Fresh Wind, Fresh Fire&quot; is an excellent book about the importance of prayer.  &quot;The Prayer of Jebez&quot; is more about how to pray.  To me, the &quot;how to&quot; book is far more valuable.  I hope you will get this book and let God work through you as you have never allowed Him to before.	2000-12-14
US	51964687	RPQPW6R6LXLQ4	0764420313	877852927	Disciple-Making Teachers	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Are you an effective teacher?	Josh Hunt has done an excellent job with this book.  Two very strong benefits the reader will glean from this book are 9 Types of Questions and what it means to Review in a Bible Study context.  The benefits from  understanding and applying these two sections of Hunt's work will be great  and teachers will find they are becoming more effective in teaching the  Bible.	1999-08-03
