US	51979525	RKZR6AB6O7IH5	0385094027	863310726	The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life	Books	5	98	107	N	N	Life as Stage	Dr. Erving Goffman, after receiving his Ph.D. in 1953 at the University of Chicago, first published The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life as a monograph at the Social Sciences Research Centre at the University of Edinburgh in 1956.  Published by Anchor Books in 1959, The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life effectively elaborates on Thorstein Veblen's observations about the character of the Leisure Class.  However, Goffman is particularly attentive to the performative and characteristic structure of society.  With the idea that &quot;the general notion that we make a presentation of ourselves to others,&quot; (252), Goffman's critical analysis of the individual and society illuminates Veblen's theory that the individual, aspiring to a higher social status, eventually becomes an emblem for that status.  Goffman delves into the interaction within tightly-knit social fabrics, revealing that the substantive transition of the individual into society is not nearly as important as his/her &quot;performance.&quot;<BR>Entry into a tight social circle, according to Goffman, requires &quot;wearing a look&quot; to avoid betraying his true stance.  Goffman notes social principles are guided by moral characteristics, which eventually support that individual in society.<BR> The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life is not merely a refutation of the adage, &quot;you can't judge a book by its cover&quot; - Photographer Arthur Felig's (also known as WeeGee) 1943 photograph of two impeccably bedecked tiara-sporting society dames, glared at meanly by a crotchety woman, is apt to prompt anyone to pick up the text for a browse.  Indeed, in Presenation's case, the photograph has a number of meanings in regard to the substance of the text.  Those who &quot;present&quot; themselves in certain respects are often ignorant of the disparaging view they may elicit from others, but if these &quot;others&quot; remotely resemble the growling woman in the photograph, the performers most likelywill not care.  In addition to the splendid photo, Goffman offers a few little-known meanings of words often arising from society.<BR>Whether the etymology of the word &quot;tact&quot; comes from society, Goffman effectively makes a case that it is a crucial maneuver in the swirling vortex of social circles. Throughout Presentation Goffman offers the point of view of &quot;impression management&quot; as a tool in studying social establishments, explicating them as actor on the proverbial stage.  Impression Management serves to &quot;prevent outsiders from coming into a performance that is not addressed to them.&quot;	2001-12-09
US	51979525	R3N9N9TFXGYN8G	0870237926	73780429	Hard at Play: Leisure in America, 1840-1940	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good description of Leisure in History	Hard at Play;  Leisure in America, 1840-1940 edited by Kathryn Grover one of the first books on the subject that targets objects of male leisure, namely rifle sports.  Russell S. Gilmore, director of the Harbor Defense Museum in Fort Hamilton, Brooklyn and PhD, in American History studies the implications of rifle games from 1840-1900 in &quot;Another Branch of Manly Sport.&quot;  He makes the astute observation that shooting galleries were part of American saloon culture since the 1830s, but the civil war turned the recreation into a necessary skill for the military.<br />It is interesting how Gilmore traces the origins of some American military practices to leisure, further articulating leisure's importance in shaping not only social and consumer power, but politics as well.	2001-12-09
US	51979525	R1LQR4ZLLF7AGM	0877223890	575195474	Cheap Amusements:Working Women & Leisure in Turn-of-the-Century New York	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Women's Appropriation of Leisure	Peiss begins her argument by explaining the relationship of industrial capitalism to wage labor in creating class-conscious leisure arenas, literally recalling Roy Rosenzweig's study.  Peiss's distinction lies in &quot;this conception of leisure did not develop historically in the same way for both sexes.&quot; (Peiss, 4). Sexual division ultimately shaped and confined women's leisure to their homes.  Thus, the typical wage-earning females in pursuit of leisure were young and single.  Their youth and marriage status turned their attentions from the leisurely pursuits of Rosenzweig's working men but to dance halls, amusement parks, and movie theatres.<BR> The emerging youth-oriented forms of recreation could not be ignored by the commercial industry, which viewed female participation as lucrative.  In addition, these commercialized forms of amusement fostered a heterosocial culture that eventually brought new meanings and restriction to same-sex gender friendships.   Rather than stand by and chronicle these changes in leisure for working-class women, Peiss makes the bold argument that these women were actual agents in shaping the nature of their leisure, and Peiss proves again and again to be correct.  Even more impressive is her claim that the majority of these women were immigrants or second-generation immigrants (Peiss, 56-88).  In examining the actual amusements of working-class women--dance halls, excursions, amusement parks, and the movies, Peiss illustrates vividly how women had a place in the architecture of their own leisure.<BR> It is Peiss's conclusion that women's suffrage and the growth of women in the public sphere &quot;infectiously appealed to other middle-class women who were less politicized.  Dancing sensual dances, attending cabarets and nightclubs, living as &quot;bachelor girls&quot; in apartment houses, these women expressed a new-found sense of freedom and possibility.&quot; (Peiss, 185).  Interestingly, the phenomena of entertainment for working-class women eventually made its way to the middle-class, though the &quot;cheap&quot; amusements deliberately shed their vulgarity for the more formal tastes of the middle-class.  Although the adventures of the single working-class woman often ceased with marriage, their new leisure pursuits would only grow with consumerism.	2001-12-09
US	51979525	R3VJ68QVVUV5L4	0877227403	782349239	For Fun And Profit: The Transformation of Leisure into Consumption (Critical Perspectives On The P)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent colection of essays on leisure.	For Fun and Profit: The Transformation of Leisure into Consumption is a marvelous collection of essays, which, interestingly contains one by aforementioned Kathy Peiss entitled Commercial Leisure and the &quot;Woman Question. Richard Butsch's leisure and Hegemony in America traces the gradual process of leisure into consumption when he recalls the days in America, two hundred years ago, when children's toys and games were self-made. It was not until the late nineteenth century that leisure pursuits became purchased products. The Theater Syndicate United Booking Office bought the rights to theater and vaudeville. In John Clarke's essay, Pessimism versus Populism: The Problematic Politics of Popular Culture, the author writes that the two scholarship schools on popular culture are defined by pessimism (the rise of centralized production and &quot;mass culture&quot;) and populism (&quot;working-class culture&quot; or &quot;popular culture.&quot; (Butsch; Clarke, 28-47). Thus still there is disagreement between what constitutes actual leisure. Butsch echoes the lack of a cohesive theoretical framework found in Women's Leisure, What Leisure?, but in his collection of essays attempts to determine what leisure is. He divides leisure historically in America in three periods, the first ending at 1830 and the second in 1880. Prior to the 1830s, the workplace was also the place of leisure, and by the 1850s, the New York working class established their own centers of entertainment apart from the leisure class. After 1880, it is easy to see how leisure became marketed.<BR>Fascinating studies on how corporations sought out marketing strategies, usually at the instigation of state policies, comprise the bulk of the essays in the book. But Ellen Wartella and Sharon Mazzarella's essay, A Historical Comparison of Children's Use of Leisure Time argues effectively on how the Progressive era provided the groundwork for children's previously ignored need for leisure. This recognition ledto a number of establishments, including the Child Welfare Stations, White House Conferences on children, the 1912 Children's Bureau, etc. The implementation of these government and voluntary services were not completely altruistic, since it became painfully aware to reformers in urban areas that the children were quite literally the future of the nation.	2001-12-09
US	51979525	R15B96LPCVLBZW	0679754113	130358221	Land of Desire: Merchants, Power, and the Rise of a New American Culture	Books	4	10	16	N	N	Leisure as Consumerism	In William Leach's Land of Desire:  Merchants, Power, and the Rise of a New American Culture the author ignores the topic of leisure by making it self-evident through consumerism.  Leisure, and in turn consumerism, became actual businesses to the likes of the Straus Brothers and Marshall Field, as well as to by-products of consumer industries such as banks, hotels, and museums.  Leach's book brings the nature of leisure full circle, from Veblen's Leisure Class to leisure of the working class, whose consumption boosted businesses that used working-class techniques based in the theatre and vaudeville as &quot;showmanship&quot; in the shop window.	2001-12-09
US	51979525	RSXXLTOHE25	0140187952	441301812	The Theory of the Leisure Class (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	28	35	N	N	Leisure as Disease	Known by his contemporaries as the only social theorist to apply Darwin critically, in 1899 Thorstein Veblen published The Theory of the Leisure Class:  A Economic Study of Institutions, which was to become the basis from which all further American leisure history and theory stemmed.  In his study, Veblen is primarily concerned with the &quot;new rich,&quot; whom he regards as social parasites that retard the growth of modern life.  Thorstein Veblen wrote The Theory of the Leisure Class  from a perspective that was largely isolated from his own culture, which either aided in his understanding of the Leisure Class or perhaps negatively influenced his opinions due to his exclusion from it.  In The Theory of the Leisure Class, Veblen essentially confines man and woman's existence on the planet as a struggle to change and adapt with the growth of their communities.  Through this belief, Veblen develops a theme that amounts to the idea of a certain &quot;dominant&quot; type of individual.  This individual develops a social structure through dominance in which social advance is sought by others.  She/he will feel the discrepancy between the modern life and traditional life during the process.  Though Veblen's rhetoric is sometimes anxious, sometimes negative, he actively pursues a specific account of the origins of the Leisure Class through individuals.  The struggle for individual advancement eventually expands to include society, and the more individual struggle for advancement in society leads to the accumulation of surplus goods.<br />Surplus of conspicuous consumption by the Leisure Class gives the class license to indulge shamefully in pure conspicuous consumption, where their occupations eventually become leisure itself.  These &quot;professions&quot; of the Leisure Class by nature render it closed, and impenetrable by outsiders.<br /> Thorstein Veblen wrote the Leisure Class represented the new phenomena of conspicuous consumption compared to pre-Industrialized wealthy communities as well as contemporary working-class ones.  But as intellectual inquiry into the topic of leisure has progressed over the past one hundred years, leisure has come to hold a number of definitions and meanings.y communities as well as contemporary working-class ones.  But as intellectual inquiry into the topic of leisure has progressed over the past one hundred years, leisure has come to hold a number of definitions and meanings.	2001-12-09
US	51979525	R2U0UOWIJ8KS9S	0801626188	291102215	Leisure and Popular Culture in Transition	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Deconstruction of Leisure	Sociologist Thomas M. Kando of California State University, Sacramento has chronicle the changing definitions of leisure, specifically as it relates to work, in Leisure and Popular Culture in Transition.  Recognizing the emerging fields of popular culture and leisure, Dr, Kando uses interdisciplinary methods as well as sociological ones to evaluate leisure's historical meaning in order to understand its modern meaning.  First, Dr. Kando seeks the find the point of transition from the protestant work ethic (hard work, thrift, competitiveness) to a &quot;less individualistic and social or even bureaucratic ethic.&quot;  (Kando, 12)<BR> Over the course of American industrialization and opportunities for work on all levels (from coal-mining to merchandizing), Dr. Kando observes &quot;the emergence of a new value system that continues to place a premium on work, emphasizes conspicuous consumption, but fails to put a high premium on leisure.&quot;  (Kando, 12-13)<BR> This view takes Thorstein Veblen's notion that conspicuous consumption and leisure are not related at all.  Why then, and for whom, does conspicuous consumption take place?  Or has the need for conspicuous assumption come to signify something other than the Leisure Class?<BR> Appropriately, Dr. Kando moves to discuss various theories of and the history and meaning of the word &quot;leisure.&quot;  He separates the term into two different meanings: the first is derived from the classical, Aristotelian school where leisure translates into the cultivation of self through spiritual freedom and meditation.  The second, more contemporary definition of leisure is defined by recreation (sports, games, play, etc.).  According to Dr. Kando, this school &quot;implicitly views leisure as if secondary importance to work.  (Kando, 20).<BR> The belief that the present condition of leisure as secondary to work prompts Dr. Kando to call for changes back to the definition of Aristotle.<BR> Dr. Kando is idealistic in his argument, but as he himself has demonstrated with examples of the Protestant work ethic, it may be the United States has always defined leisure as secondary to work.  At least, amongst those who worked.  The new definition of work Dr, Kando asks for would be more appropriately defined as spirituality.  And indeed, spirituality or the pursuit of some kind of spiritual affiliation has been historically the mark of status and leisure, this time as defined by the Leisure Class.	2001-12-09
US	51979525	R2ZPJTMOES15AC	0226732401	852752597	All the World's a Fair: Visions of Empire at American International Expositions, 1876-1916	Books	4	16	19	N	N	World's Fairs and the Leisure Class	Robert W. Rydell's book,  All the World's a Fair:  Visions of Empire at American International Expositions, 1876-1916 is far different a study than Roy Rosenzweig's, yet it offers some interesting insights into how the moneyed leisure class still indulged in luxuries of their own.  Rydell writes that the impetus behind world's fairs was to boost the economy while maintaining an American authority over the displays.  Just as saloons and amusement parks were necessary for America's working class, the World's Fairs were designed for the leisure class.<BR>The world fairs of 1876-1916 betrayed a much more sinister agenda.  Ideas of American progressed became related to scientific racism.  The widening concern over immigration by the leisure class eventually promoted eugenicist ideas about the hierarchy of white populations.  <BR> World's fairs did not stand in direct opposition to the leisure pastimes of the working class.  In fact, they utilized them to &quot;scientifically&quot; and racially segregate members of the American population.<BR>Rydell argues that the world's fairs in America from 1876-1916 were a material vision of political, business, and intellectuals to promote their vision of racial dominance.  Thus, so far we have witnessed segregation of leisure along class lines but not until reading ,  All the World's a Fair:  Visions of Empire at American International Expositions, 1876-1916  is it so clear that the elements of leisure rested on racial superiority.	2001-12-09
US	51979525	R31EG234YRC8KQ	0520201973	84000849	The Sex of Things: Gender and Consumption in Historical Perspective	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Gender and Consumption Historically Explained	In The Sex of Things:  Gender and Consumption in Historical Perspective, the authors aim to analyze political demands through consumer history.  Victoria de Grazia asks whether consumption a measure of economic well-being, a manner of constructing social hierarchies, or is it a way to relate to the body politic the desires of the people?  Within these contexts, three themes are further examined, including the framework of European-American consumerism, the history of consumer culture, and the methodology of feminist analysis.<BR>The purposes of these essays are to provide a historical context for the rise of consumer culture through the transition from the aristocratic to the bourgeois society.  Rather than specifically detailing each essay's thesis, I will focus on the particular essays that involve a slightly more historical analysis rather than a critical, theoretical framework (although those are interesting as well).<BR>Jennifer Jones' essay, &quot;Coquettes and Grisettes: Women Buying and Selling in Ancien Regime Paris&quot; tracks the \\"consumer revolution\\" between 1650 and 1789, following with a \\"commercial revolution.\\"  The initial transactional atmosphere during this period involved a male consumer and female merchant.  This, she explains, was a broader, more public setting for a courtship ritual between the seller and buyer.  As salons, cafes, promenading became leisurely pursuits, so did shopping, and it became a form of public life, resulting in more female buyers from all classes in the 1780s.  According to Jones, the reasons for women being seduced by goods changed as a result of the Enlightenment:  Biblical reasons like Eve seducing Adam were no longer acceptable, so inquiries into female psychology and their mental capacities through \\"scientific\\" explanations took hold (35).  The female aesthetic sense and imagination became dominant reasons for their desires.  These &quot;scientifically-based&quot; explanations were seen as acceptable and permissible, as long as the buying on the part of women were for suitors or husbands.  Growing female merchants changed the courtship aspect, and it was replaced by a class system that emphasized the difference between female merchants and female consumers. <BR>Women's work was also largely confined to the home in cottage industries during the late 19th Century.  Soon, the transition from producer-based households to modern consumer households led to new democratic ideologies and problems.  Anna R. Igra's &quot;Male Providerhood and the Public Purse: Anti-Desertion Reform in the Progressive Era&quot; reveals how the anti-desertion movement regulated man's use of wages to family and ideas of manhood.  However, women were still obligated to be domestic to impede desertion.  In the end, desertion implicated women as well as men.<BR>To this de Grazia notes while families were seen as providers, it was under the State that passed laws on credit, property, retail, and defined public spending versus private spending (public spending being housing, health, education and pensions).  One method to divert the attention of women from their domestic duties was the rise of department stores and commercial districts.  Political commercialism fragmented centralized patriarchal systems, and individual ones. Performative politics led to collective politics.  De Grazia has also, as previously mentioned, employed the feminist inquiry that combines politics with methodology.  This leads us to the question, is consumption for women liberating or repressive?  <BR>In &quot;Making Up, Making Over: Cosmetics, Consumer Culture and Women's Identity&quot; by Kathy Peiss, the author of &quot;Cheap Amusements&quot; explains how earlier 20th Century female identity went from &quot;essential, interior self to one formed in marking and coloring of the face.&quot; (330) and that commodities became the language that destabilized cultural hierarchies among women.   Issues of Race and class were brought to the table by both the marketing of whiteness to African-Americans through products such as Madame C.J. Walker's hair straightener to &quot;exotic&quot; looks disbursed through film media, specifically Cleopatra.<BR>De Grazia admits, as do other scholars of leisure, that there is no unified field of inquiry into consumer history.   Ultimately, the book as a collection of essays examines how the consumption of an individual leads to the collective desires of families and communities, which ultimately help to define national character.	2001-12-09
US	51979525	R254ESM5E2Y8E6	052131397X	136451848	Eight Hours for What We Will: Workers and Leisure in an Industrial City, 1870-1920 (Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Modern History)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Leisure Among the Working Class	It is interesting how the focus of leisure has changed among social historians to include elements of working-class leisure.  In Eight Hours for What We Will:  Workers &amp; Leisure in an Industrial City, 1870-1920 by Roy Rosenzweig.  Rosenzweig first offers theories as to why labor historians have traditionally shied away from studying leisure as an academic subject, citing the silliness and frivolity old-fashioned academics associate with the subject.  After referring to these types of intellectuals as &quot;narrow-minded,' Rozenzweig continues to use the town of Worcester, Massachusetts to discover what constituted pastimes and amusement for Worcester workers by asking three questions.  The first asks what have been the traditional values among the American working class, the second asks about the character of interclass relations in America's industrial communities, and the third question asks how class culture and relations changed from the nineteenth century to the twentieth.  By examining these questions, Rosenzweig believes that a town like Worcester &quot;offers the best opportunity for capturing workers' lives in all their complexity.&quot;  (Rosenzweig, 3)<BR> The first two sections of Eight Hours for What We Will are concerned with the saloon and the effect of temperance on workers as well as the use of July Fourth celebrations &quot;to mark out [Worcester's immigrants'] cultural distance not only from the city's elite and native middle class but also from fellow immigrants.  (Rosenzweig, 65-86)<BR> Eventually, Rosenzweig writes about how interrelationships of workers led to the rise of a leisure market, an outgrowth of both the saloon and Fourth of July celebrations.  One of Rosenzweig's main arguments is that the development of amusement park, continual importance of saloons as leisure arenas, and the beginning of a film culture were all a gradual process that grew with the Worcester community itself.  Less a study on the nature of leisure, Rosenzweigeffectively indicates how leisure is transformed within the bounds of a working class community.	2001-12-09
US	51979525	R1RAOZSDY80EGN	0312243359	601276911	We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will be Killed With Our Families: Stories from Rwanda	Books	3	45	54	N	N	Modern Atrocities	Gourevitch's book is a gut-wrenching account of the 1994 genocide on the part of the Hutu government to kill 800,000 Tutsi neighbors, not because of the graphic nature but because of the complacency and ignorance of the rest of the world while this was happening.  Gourevitch seems personally affected by the genocide, particularly when western nations 1) not only could have stopped the genocide but also 2) aided the Hutus in refugee camps.<br />Gourevitch's blame falls on the Clinton Administration, the UN and General Kofi Annan and France.  The fact that massacres were going to take place, he claims, was within the knowledge of all these different powers even before the massacre occurred.<br />The bulk of Gourevitch's book is interviews with a cross-section of the Rwandan public who displayed courage, as well as those who didn't.<br />The theme of genocide progresses throughout the book but then becomes subsumed in a narrative of various relief efforts with names that are difficult to keep track of (RPF, FAR, UNAMIR, etc.)<br />Gourevitch writes as a journalist, and it differs in many ways from scholarly articles such as &quot;Beyond Nuremberg&quot; by David Cohen, which I read previous to We Wish To Inform You.  In trying to draw parallel themes, I found that Gourevitch was seeking to expose how the murder of the Tutsis in Rwanda was carried out even more methodically than the Nazis' Final Solution.  His point is particularly disconcerting after having read about the complex legalities of the Nuremberg and Tokyo Tribunals, only to have another genocide occur 50 years later, largely ignored by the public.  Gourevitch's book effectively changes this, and brings the atrocities in Rwanda to the public, where they can no longer be ignored.	2001-10-29
US	51979525	R1I4EE0QXQYWO1	0631198822	929656908	Making of Modern South Africa (Historical Association Studies)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Great study on the History of Apartheid	The structure and narrative of Nigel Worden's The Making of Modern South Africa: Conquest, Segregation and Apartheid is perhaps what makes this volume of the Historical Association Studies accessible not only to historians, but social historians who are looking beyond the nationalism of the African and Afrikaner to study how rural culture and townships in South Africa were affected from the colonial conquests of the 18th Century through the present.  Maps of African societies in the nineteenth century; The Union of South Africa in 1910; &quot;Native Reserves&quot; of 1913 and 1936'; and the Bantustans, or Homelands, all provide a tangible, physical view of the changing nature of South Africa's political topography.  Worden's extremely detailed Outline Chronology provides the reader with extensive information regarding South Africa from the &quot;Pastoralist revolution&quot; in c. 1000 BCE, through the British annexation of Natal in 1843, to the Introduction of Indian indentured laborers to Natal in 1860, which subsequently ended in 1911.  Worden's Chronology illustrates how the making of apartheid was evident even before the South African &quot;Boer&quot; War in 1899-1902 with the Glen Grey Act of 1894 establishing separate land and tax systems for Africans on the eastern Cape.<BR>One of Worden's arguments states that the two explanations for the changing map of South Africa after the Zulu defeated the British were 1) Britain's desire to unify the region in order to control and 2) Britain was at this point in time representative of &quot;the wider scramble for empire, particularly in Africa, amongst European powers.&quot;  Worden's answer to these theories posited by historians prior to 1970 is that it was, in fact &quot;The discovery of valuable mineral deposits and the need to secure labor supplies to mine them made the South African interior a highly desirable region for the British to control directly.&quot; (19) Yet mining was not the only available labor forcein migrant labor.  Many South Africans avoided wage labor by cultivating crops for commercial production, supplying the necessary cash for taxes and good. (46) The effect was a backlash with the victory of Het Volk in the 1907 Transvaal elections by &quot;promis[ing] to restore white rural hegemony at the expense of African producers.&quot; (48) The Natives Land Act of 1913 passed by the Union Government forbade the purchase of land by Africans outside known reserves.  Conflicts and resistance by South Africans was omnipresent and pronounced, and brought in the Industrial and Commercial Worker's Union (ICU), which ultimately weakened by the late 20s.<BR>After providing a heavy dose of the background against which Apartheid is placed, Worden proceeds to explain how racial discrimination in South Africa came to be.  The process was part of European imperialism, into which ideas of the west being obligated to &quot;civilize&quot; natives hastened expansion, and the Darwinist idea of evolution was being applied to the human race.  Unlike other nations where white supremacism was strong (like other British colonies in Africa, Asia, and the U.S.), in South Africa it was the lines on which the economic and political structure was shaped.  Worden carefully examines the origins of the structured form of racial superiority, and notes that almost immediately they emerged with the Dutch East India Company Officials maintaining the hierarchy.  (66) Apartheid eventually emerged as a facet of Afrikaner nationalism.  Apartheid became a means of excluding Africans from political power, and in the 1950s, while experiencing its &quot;heyday,&quot; it also met substantial protest.  The protests declined in the 1960s, but gained momentum in the 70s and 80s.  Worden concludes that it was the variety of civil wars in South Africa, with the population alienated from the state and sanctions effectively slowing the economy, which seriously began to force apartheid into decline.  But his book is disturbingly written as though unfinished, possibly partially because Nigel Worden himself does not see apartheid, as we know it today to be finished.	2001-10-29
US	51979525	RR2W6TNOWJKZQ	0446674362	282618499	The Black Dahlia	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mesmerizing Reconstruction of Post WWII USA	James Ellroy's &quot;The Black Dahlia&quot; may be a working hypothesis for a real unsolved crime tangled in the guise of prose, but the book is much more than a true crime/novel-it is an extremely well-researched glimpse into the minds and emotions of post World War II citizens of Los Angeles, the confusion that is raised in the face of an unspeakable crime, and our abilities as human beings to cope.	2001-09-19
US	51979525	R3HYNXI1A8PZVE	0520064291	627615200	The New Cultural History (Studies on the History of Society and Culture)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The New Fascinating History	In the book The New Cultural History, editor Lynn Hunt has compiled a series of essays that seek to explain cultural history, as well as essays that undertake the approach to history that is exemplified in cultural history.  Each essay is by a cultural historian of some degree, and each excerpt builds upon and carries out the notion of cultural history itself.  Instead of one long discussion about what is cultural history, this volume effectively translates the aspects of cultural history for the reader by offering various examples of how cultural historians write.  The first half of the book is devoted to \\"models of cultural history,\\" and it offers just that.  In her essay on Michel Foucault, Patricia O'Brien gives the reader a better understanding of cultural history through the works and visions of the famous French philosopher.  She argues that Foucault's approach to historical discourse paved the way for historians to be able to draw on interpretations of facts rather than just the facts alone.  Suzanne Desan, in her essay, shows how this historical method was employed by more contemporary historians such as E.P. Thompson and Natalie Davis.  Through their work the reader sees how they moved from a socioeconomic, Marxist view of history to one that was outlined by Foucault.  Though Desan is writing a history, she is also doing what her subjects did and draws her own interpretations and finally, calls for a merge between social and cultural history.  Aletta Biersack and Lloyd S. Kramer both take this new cultural history as a model, and in their respective essays discuss how anthropology and literature offer invaluable insights <br />into the psychology of culture of the masses.  Once the model for cultural history is established, part two of The New Cultural History shows how use of philosophy, psychology, literature, and anthropology are used when discussing histories of various institutions.  In her essay on the American Parade, Mary Ryan gives a more thoroughhistory of an American custom by limiting the scope of her topic to three cities and a very concentrated period of time.  She is then more able to draw interpretations of what the American parade has meant and through her findings, gives credence to her own hypothesis that the parade has mirrored the rise and fall of various social groups.  In \\"Texts, Printing, Readings\\" author Roger Chartier looks at the text of creating text itself as a clue into how society reads and why, and through drawing his own interpretations he gives a voice to the readers in the past, and in a sense, gives ammunition for social historians who argue that there is a power relationship between printing and the masses.  Thomas W. Laquer shows how this \\"ammunition\\" for social historians was further realized through narratives about human suffering in his article \\"Bodies, Details, and the Humanitarian Narrative.\\"  In the final essay, Randolph Starn draws on science to explain how art was created and perceived during the Renaissance and how a deeper understanding of how the eye works can show how making a work seem \\"Classical\\" served the deeper purpose of propagating and stabilizing power in the past.  In every essay of The New Cultural History, it is this relationship between the popular masses and power that is in some way addressed. Each historian in the volume argues in different ways that power is not dictated from the upper levels by the elite, but rather that it is created among the population itself.  <br />The population in question is culture, and by studying the various roots of power and reasons for it within a specific culture, it is possible to write a respected and valid history of that culture.	2001-08-23
US	51979525	REPY7H4JS6EVM	0860915468	314108816	Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Historiography at its most Captivating	Imagined Communities by Benedict Anderson seeks to explain the seeds of what he terms \\"imagined communities,\\" which are for the most part \\"nations\\".  It is also a careful chronological account of how these seeds grew into actual policies through the breaking apart of the Latin language, the dissemination of mass-media into new ideas of national history, and ultimately how history and language served to preserve national identity.  In the first chapter, \\"Cultural Roots,\\" Anderson claims that the birth of the imagined community is directly linked to Industrialization and its two byproducts, the novel and the newspaper.  The novel and the newspaper first made the public aware of simultaneous experiences that allowed them to conceive of themselves as not alone, but rather an entity that worked together.  The concept of time as a linear, progressive notion was another result of Industrialization, and Anderson argues that this \\"calendrical\\" way of looking at the past was another important factor in imagined communities as it allows groups of people to think of a historic root in national identity.  In the following chapter, \\"Origins of National Consciousness,\\" Anderson takes his point further by arguing that print-capitalism and capitalism in general sought to benefit from growing literacy among \\"laypeople.\\"  In this way it was self-perpetuating in that it created more of a consuming public that, because of its expansion, began to create and shape a national consciousness of its own.  Growing population in general led to the development of new languages from Latin, and the new languages thereby helped shape national consciousness as well.  In the fourth chapter, \\"Creole Pioneers,\\" Anderson explains how colonialism, particularly in respect to the United States of America, also contributed to growing populations who were a mix of the colonized and the colonials.  In addition to expanding the public further, these \\"Creoles\\" also developed separate understandings of nationalism based on the model those who first came to the colonies.  From here, author Benedict Anderson explains how, once established, new colonies such as the Americas \\"pirated\\" ideas of modernity and antiquity and used them for their own distinct national purposes.  Languages were no longer the basis of national identity, but  rather these pirated models gained momentum through administrative and educational institutions.  In the chapter \\"Official Nationalism and Imperialism,\\" Anderson explains how this idea of individual/national antiquity and modernity was adopted as a policy for the first time by various ruling classes: \\"Such official nationalisms were conservative, not to say reactionary, policies, adapted from the model of the largely spontaneous popular nationalisms that preceded them.\\" (110)  In the chapter \\"The Last Wave,\\" the idea of this centralizing or \\"Russifying\\" of schools and administrative facilities is presented as already established within most of the European and colonized nations, and is shown as well underway in the case of Indonesia.  This chapter also explores how \\"Russifying\\" of nations also led to another unintentional but financially beneficial necessity, bilingualism.  Bilingualism was important at this point because it further explained how language was not the sole root of national consciousness, and also because it allowed for the proliferation of more print-capitalism (and at this stage, other new forms of media) which led to a wider understanding of nationality on the part of the reader.  At this point, the idea of nationality and the implementation of imagined communities were firmly in place, but policies were necessarily shifted in order to preserve national identity.  In \\"Patriotism and Racism,\\" Benedict Anderson seeks to explain what motivated already-formed imaginary communities was the future.  This look toward the future of individual nations in part explains the use of racism in nationalism, because \\"The fact of the matter is that nationalism thinks in terms of historical destines, while racism dreams of eternal contaminations.\\" (149)  Alongside racism, patriotism was also necessary to ground national consciousness, and only at this point is language instrumental in preserving national identity because it is now the link to the past and is a vehicle for people to understand the history of their nationality.  The last three chapters of Imagined Communities  explain how nations preserve their histories in different ways.  Benedict Anderson shows how the legacies of dead regimes are actual models upon which revolutionary governments take over and continue to use.  In \\"Census, Map, Museum\\" we are shown how each of these ways of classifying different nationalities in physical terms \\"illuminate the late colonial state's style of thinking about its domain.\\" (184)  And finally, in memory and forgetting, Benedict Anderson explains how staples of the \\"imaginary community\\" are further preserved by the illumination and glorification of certain aspects of history, and the deliberate \\"forgetting\\" of incriminating remnants of the past (i.e., the Civil War in America.)  Imagined Communities is an straightforward account of how ideas of nationality were first born through print-media and language, how they later became policies, and how they ultimately sought self-preservation through different means.at nationalism thinks in terms of historical destines, while racism dreams of eternal contaminations.\\" (149)  Alongside racism, patriotism was also necessary to ground national consciousness, and only at this point is language instrumental in preserving national identity because it is now the link to the past and is a vehicle for people to understand the history of their nationality.    The last three chapters of Imagined Communities  explain how nations preserve their histories in different ways.  Benedict Anderson shows how the legacies of dead regimes are actual models upon which revolutionary governments take over and continue to use.  In \\"Census, Map, Museum\\" we are shown how each of these ways of classifying different nationalities in physical terms \\"illuminate the late colonial state's style of thinking about its domain.\\" (184)  And finally, in memory and forgetting, Benedict Anderson explains how staples of the \\"imaginary community\\" are further preserved by the illumination and glorification of certain aspects of history, and the deliberate \\"forgetting\\" of incriminating remnants of the past (i.e., the Civil War in America.)  Imagined Communities is an straightforward account of how ideas of nationality were first born through print-media and language, how they later became policies, and how they ultimately sought self-preservation through different means.	2001-08-23
US	51979525	R211B7DH76OTT0	0195033787	512706852	Entertaining Satan: Witchcraft and the Culture of Early New England	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Entertaining Satan is Fun	Entertaining Satan:  Witchcraft and the Culture of Early New England is an example of cultural and psychological history done within the realm of the witchraft phenomenon in early New England.  In his book, the author effectively ties in all the data possible pertaining to witchraft during the 17th Century and analyzes it from different perspectives including cultural, psychological, sociological, and combining all of these creates a lucid and well-documented history.  In part one, John Putnam Demos carefully examines all aspects of the biographical nature of witches in the 17th century that are available to him.  He first and foremost states that the witch trials of Salem were not (as popular belief has it) the only witch trials in America during the period.  He then is extremely careful in presenting evidence in formulating a biographical sketch of the typical witch.  In the first part, John Putnam Demos leads me to recall Laurel Thatcher Ulrich's A Midwife's Tale in that, through murky and tenuous records and evidence, he manages to draw out and breathe life into what would otherwise be simple court records and disjointed data.  He is also very self-critical and, before each interpretation of Rachel Clinton and John Godfrey's biographical sketches as well as the findings of family life in 17th Century New England, the author presents a host of caveats relating to the evidence.  Sentences like \\"This material cannot meaningfully be quantified\\" (74) and \\"the extant records do not yield fully adequate information,\\" (76) are common phrases Demos uses before drawing conclusions from the information available to him.  In Part Two of Entertaining Satan, John Putnam Demos gives us a convincing psychological argument as to the character and nature of not only the suspected witches themselves, but the psychodynamic structures of the 17th century community.  He offers a myriad of psychoanalytic tools, most notably projection, in attempting to understand what propelled the fear of witchcraft.  By placing psychology in the context of his understanding of history of witchcraft in 17th Century New England, it's apparent that Demos effectively carries out what I think Peter Loewenberg was trying to do in Decoding the Past: The Psychohistorical Approach.  Instead of relying on one psychological method (Freud), Demos recognizes the dangers of overly relying on one model of interpretation, which is why his evidence and argument are much more convincing than were Loewenberg's.  John Putnam Demos executes effectively what Peter Loewenberg ignores entirely (with the exception of the Nazi Youth Cohort article), namely, a psychology of the group with respect to 17th century community and witchcraft.  Part Three is aptly titled \\"Sociology\\" because it is here where Demos examines the power of local gossip through records and his own interpretation of them.  For instance, a record might reveal nothing substantial but once he studies it, Demos can argue that certain families were predisposed to witchcraft condemnation exactly because of societal reasons.  This sociological approach to history also makes me recollect The New Cultural History in that, in much the same ways, Demos is learning about a society through their collective conscience and unconscious and thus can explain what contributed further to the witchcraft phenomenon.  In Part Four, Demos again makes the argument that not only were the Salem witch trials not an isolated even, but that witch trials were continuous through history.  He studies the witchcraft phenomenon through other towns such as Hampton as well as records pertaining to its inhabitants.  In these last chapters, Demos also stresses how, although the majority of them were, not all towns with inhabitants accused of witchcraft were \\"Puritan.\\"  Though studying Hampton and the town of Wethersfield, Demos sketches a convincing history of communities in New England and what diseases/maladies/afflictions they may have had that wouldsupplant evidence of \\"witchcraft.\\"  This last part draws together well-argued biographical sketches as well as the psychology and sociology of a given community to provide a general history of the communities and the impact witchcraft had on them.  Entertaining Satan by John Putnam Demos is a coherent, extremely well-rounded history of witchcraft on 17th Century New England.  But while it is a solid history book, it is also an excellent example of psychological history done well.  Because it is such an excellent psychological history, it is excellent cultural history in that it supplies, analyzes, and interprets the community as a force and a power that is capable of shaping and creating its own historical destiny.  I liked Entertaining Satan because for me, it recalled all the other books I have read for this class up to this point and gave them all a new meaning in as to how to approach history.  Had I read Entertaining Satan before reading The New Cultural History, A Midwife's Tale, or Decoding the Past I may have been much more critical of the book.  But knowing now how difficult it is to write a firm, convincing cultural history of a subject using data, psychology, and interpretation, I have a large amount of respect for how well-rounded a history Entertaining Satan is.	2001-08-23
US	51979525	RW1HLUACXTN6Z	0393312860	829722086	Telling the Truth About History (Norton Paperback)	Books	5	13	20	N	N	Excellent Text for History Graduate Students	Telling the Truth About History by Joyce Appleby, Lynn Hunt, and Margaret Jacob is both a history book as well as an attempt to outline a new approach to history altogether.  At first, Telling the Truth About History reads like a lamentation for the original, scientific historical approach that was born during the enlightenment, but with sound historical data as well as their own theories, it is obvious that the authors are trying to show how all the different movements towards the telling of history originated, and how and why they all ultimately failed.  In the beginning of Telling the Truth About History, the authors tell us that history is simply a search for a basic law of human development.  The first laws of human development came with Isaac Newton's Principia and defined the \\"scientist as hero\\" or \\"heroic model of science.\\" The book continues to explain how Newtonian science manifested in applied mechanics and became the \\"mental capital\\" (23) of the Industrial Revolution. With Newton's laws of mechanics came mechanization of other realms of science and even society.  Engines. mines, and even labor could all operate under Newton's mechanization theory.  The authors of Telling the Truth About History continue to outline how Newtonian science propagated itself outside of science...meaning that it created more leisure time, and allowed physics and new political laws to be discussed during this leisure time.  With \\"commercial expansion, enlightened reform, and revolution,\\" science was undeniably the backbone of modernity.  With modernity and other changes in science, namely Darwin's theory of evolution came new schools of thought, including the Philosophes, positivism, nationalism and Marxism.  From this point on, Telling the Truth About History becomes, in a sense, a History of Relativism, and is a story of how American historical scholars gained and lost scientific objectivity, and their struggle to find it again.  The American Historical Profession saw great changes in the years after 1880s and professional standards themselves were born.  During this time, the authors argue, national  -1- identity became one of the most fatal unsuspected blows to scientific history because, especially with the diversity in America, trying to find national identity derailed scholars from telling one agreed upon notion of history.  As Peter Novick does in That Noble Dream, the authors chronicle how growing professionalism in history also meant the growing pressure by different special interest/political groups to write a separate, relative history that also pushed scholars away from scientific objectivity.  Truth itself began to seem to be an unattainable and idealistic notion with different groups arguing that their truth was right, and \\"denying the possibility of truth produces a relativism that makes it impossible to choose between Ethical systems.\\" (194)  With great care and much evidence, Telling the Truth About History chronicles the search for one truth in history, and it discusses how the latest movements in telling history are right and wrong.  Social historians \\"with their passion for breaking apart the historical record had dug a potentially fatal hole into which history as a discipline might disappear altogether.\\" (200) but postmodernist historians \\"question the superiority of present and the usefulness of general worldviews.\\"  The authors don't say that these two examples are without their respective pros and cons.  Social history made room for cultural history, which seeks to explain that human reason is shaped by culture, not social or scientific contexts and infers meaning rather than telling a cause-and-effect history.  Likewise, postmodernists attacked the very foundation of history and became ununified and their aim unclear. (206)  Both cultural historians and postmodernists attacked the idea of historical narrative, seeing it as unuseful.  It is with these very recent developments in history that the authors of Tellingthe Truth About History make their call to arms in a new approach to telling history.  The authors defend the validity of the narrative saying it is a main ingredient in describing individualism and social identity.  They make an appeal for Practical Realism, a somewhat romantic search for interpretation of the meaning of events.  Through Practical Realism one can recognize both the existence f an event and its interpretations simultaneously(250).  In this way, the author argue, the Postmodernists were right to have destroyed meaning that \\"sustains itself\\" in objects (257) so that the ditinctions between the objects/events and their meaning can become more clear.    Chronicling the rise and fall of scientific history as well as explaining the various movements that grew out of the Enlightenment and and how it was otherwise detrimental to telling history, Appleby, Hunt, and Jacob all argue that the meaning of events already exist, and through a summoning of the original hypothetical and theoretical aspects of the Scientific Model as well as adopting a realism in practice, we can again tell history from a more collective, truthful standpoint.	2001-08-23
US	51979525	R3H8WDZGCX4IPU	185727041X	656728406	The Midwife's Tale: An Oral History from Handywoman to Professional Midwife	Books	5	5	14	N	N	Midwives as Key to Understanding early American Life	Laurel Thatcher Ulrich's incredible book, A Midwife's Tale: The Life of Martha Ballard Based on Her Diary 1785-1812 is an amazingly comprehensive collection of facts and details that give life to the seemingly mundane diary entries of an 18th century American midwife.  A Midwife's Tale is not only what the title implies...the story of a midwife.  Rather, it is equally a history lesson on New England medicine, religion, politics, accounting, gender roles and social structure.  In the midst of all this, however, it's not easy to escape the fact that the author of this history is a 20th Century female, and thus she bestows upon Martha Ballard a kind of feminist heroicism that, in 18th Century Hallowell would simply be a solid wife's duty.  Through A Midwife's Tale one is given a glimpse of how aspects of daily life in 18th Century New England were created and what brought about their changes.  We see Martha Ballard as a relatively traditional midwife during the advent of many new medical practices.  Through her midwife practice, we also begin to understand the distinct roles of men and women in medicine, as well as in daily life.  Men were doctors, women midwives.  Men traveled and conducted business, women remained at home.  Gender roles also help us understand further the role community played in 18th Century New England.  Without the help of her varied female neighbors, Martha Ballard's practice would be even more exhausting than it seems it already was.  Even more importantly, without the complex network of the extended family and at-home weaving, Martha Ballard would not have been able to go out to perform her duties as a midwife.  All of these aspects of life intertwined and paid off, as is seen in Martha Ballard's accounting notes.  Laurel Thatcher Ulrich sums it up on page 80:  \\"By expanding textile production, Martha provided household help for herself and an occupation for her girls.\\"  Martha Ballard's diary is also a reflection of changing religious attitudes, as is seen in the case of the wife of minister Isaac Foster who charged rape against Judge Joseph North.   Isaac Foster seemed too progressive for some of the more conservative parishioners of Hallowell.  As closely as religion and politics were tied back then, the case against Joseph North is also a window into New England law.  From here, Martha Ballard also takes us into the politics of illegitimacy and marriage laws with the accusation brought against her own son that he was the father of an illegitimate child.  While A Midwife's Tale:  The Life of Martha Ballard Based on Her Diary 1785-1812 is an excellent, if not the foremost resource for 18th Century New England medical, social, cultural, religious, and political historians, it is also obviously a product of Laurel Thatcher Ulrich's contemporary values.  While I was reading A Midwife's Tale, I couldn't help but feel Ulrich was really trying to drive home the point that Martha Ballard was an exceptional woman, even though Ulrich herself says Ballard was just an example of what average women were like at the time.  But in describing Martha Ballard's work, Ulrich employs a kind of \\"presentism\\" in making Ballard into a feminist so obviously in control of her own business, social circle and religious beliefs.  When writing about Martha Ballard, Ulrich uses language like \\"she was bound to serve anyone who needed her,\\" (97) adjectives such as \\"benevolent,\\" \\"charitable,\\" and, in the introduction, describes a journey of  Martha's as \\"She dragged herself out, mounted a neighbor's horse, and rode dripping to the delivery.\\" (4)  Phrases such as these are obviously meant to elevate Martha Ballard to a level that, if asked herself, Ballard would have said was merely expected of her.  It seems to me that at the time Martha Ballard was an example of what a midwife to the middle to elite classes of 18th Century was like, and nothing more.  With the advent of social historians in the 20th Century and with the greater freedoms women have today it is easy to marvel at how hard women in the past worked.  There is no doubt that Martha Ballard was hard-working, and in the sense that it is used to teach us about the work of 18th Century American midwives, A Midwife's Tale:  The Life of Martha Ballard Based on Her Diary 1785-1812 is priceless.  However, it is also important to stress the fact that other than performing hard work, Martha Ballard's options were limited.	2001-08-23
US	51979525	RWDGKIAP0UBT2	1560008466	335671341	Decoding the Past: The Psychohistorical Approach	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Psychohistory, not Psychotichistory	In his book, Decoding the Past: The Psychohistorical Approach, author Peter Loewenberg attempts to outline a method of doing history through the eyes of a psychologist.  After presenting the problems of a limited scope in historical approach, Loewenberg then discusses how a psychohistorian should be trained and in the last two parts of the book, the author includes what he himself seems to think is psychohistorical writing about leaders and followers in Austrian and Germany during the late 19th and early 20th centuries.  Peter Loewenberg gives some convincing arguments at the beginning of Decoding the Past as to why psychology should be an avenue towards a greater understanding of history.  Loewenberg notices that the task of the historian and the task of the psychologist are similar in that they both seek to use as much \\"evidence\\" as is pertinent, they both study human acts and motivations, and they are both dealing with (in some sense) \\"the past.\\"  Loewenberg argues that both the psychologist and the historian should be trained similarly and that it is this precisely this psychological training for the historian that will enable one to have a deeper breath of  knowledge about any past events.  His argument towards a psychohistorical approach is solid and realistic enough.  It gives further credence towards the still shaky realm of cultural studies in that it provides a model for understanding individual and group behavior through psychology.   What follows in part II could also have been convincing, but here Loewenberg appears to be taking the notion of psychology in academics a bit too far.  Rather than concentrating on how a graduate student can become a psychohistorian, Loewenberg instead applies his own and Sigmund Freud's ideas as to what the graduate student-faculty relationship entails.  While he does have some good points here and there (the graduate school is, in some ways, an extension of the \\"family\\") Loewenberg is likely to lose the reader with declarative statements such as, \\"The threat is of temptation to homosexual submission,\\" (52) and \\"the desire of teachers to have disciples is in part an expression of the urge to transcend mortality and the fear of extinction.\\" (69)  It seems as if Loewenberg depends entirely too much on Freud and psychoanalysis in understanding the graduate school relationship, and although he might have had some convincing arguments, it seems as if Loewenberg simply used his psychological education as a carte blanche to make sweeping generalizations and unfounded claims in the name of psychoanalysis.  This take-what-you-can-and-run-with-it approach is even more evident in Loewenberg's own historical writing on various groups and group leaders in the last half of the book.  What drove Theodor Herzl into becoming a Zionist was his \\"mental associations with himself as the messiah.\\" (104)  Victor and Friedrich Adler are examples of the Oedipal conflict in that, in order to get his true father's attention, Friedrich Adler actually killed Count Sturgkh thereby acting out rebellious fantasies and becoming a hero.  Otto Bauer's passivity was a result of his childhood's indecisiveness, and was reflected in his political tactics as well.  Heinrich Himmler's childhood anal-retentiveness is extended and realized in the concentration camp and the idea of Jews \\"polluting\\" German society is actually manifested by systematically removing them from circulation.  Loewenberg's essay entitled \\"The Psychohistorical Origins of the Nazi Youth Cohort\\" is actually a well-documented and well-researched look as to why Hitler's policies had so attracted the young.  The essay gives numerous figures supporting the idea that their deprivation of goods in childhood as well as the deprivation of a father figure is what gave the Hitler followers reason to support the Nazi regime.  The essay is original in that it gives a human element to the Nazi Youth Cohort and in many ways takes away any blame by illustrating the horrific circumstances from which it arose.  Although it is clear that Loewenberg's idea of a psychological approach to history is the main thesis of Decoding the Past, it still appears as though the book was a vehicle which gave Loewenberg free reign in applying what he wanted in investigating historical people and phenomena.  After a while, Loewenberg's interpretation of history was predictable and, in many ways ludicrous in how it overly relied on Freud's psychoanalytic theories.  Only from the first part did I come out of my reading feeling as though I learned something and I agree with the idea that a deeper understanding of psychology can create a deeper understanding of history.  However, Loewenberg himself is evidence of how it is dangerous to take one theory so far into explaining events.  And after reading case after case of Oedipal explanations for leadership and idol worship, I quickly realized that Loewenberg still has some father-issues with Freud to mull over.	2001-08-23
US	51979525	RV3S2LT2433ZB	039474067X	254566048	Orientalism	Books	3	133	180	N	N	What about the Ottoman Empire?	Edwards Said's book, Orientalism, is both a study on the origins, repercussions, and general history of the concept of \\"Orientalism\\" as well as an example of cultural history in action, and in many ways it is also evidence of how cultural history can go drastically wrong.  The text itself investigates how Orientalism, or what Said also describes as \\"the distinction between Western superiority and Oriental inferiority,\\" (42) expanded and proliferated in the years of Western expansion; namely, the 19th Century.  Although it had existed before, Said argues that \\"Orientalism\\" was made concrete by scientists, explorers, and scholars and is mostly the result of these people quantifying and qualifying and making \\"rational\\" a concept they could not understand.  Edward Said says that the original notion of the dividing line between East and West \\"is more than anything else imaginative.\\" (55) Once Orientalism was conceptualized from this imagined line, Said argues, it offered a set of rules, descriptions and modes of behavior that generalized a wildly diverse population and made it easily attainable and exploitable by the West.  Orientalism was also invented as a way for Europeans to reconcile their fear of the Near East and Islam, which is the topic most covered by Said and was a great influence on Orientalism because of its sheer magnitude and power. While Orientalism was originally conceived out of imagined misconceptions and a largely created body of evidence as realized in Barthelemy d'Herbelot's Bibliotheque  Orientale (originally published in 1697), it was perpetuated in later \\"projects\\" best exemplified in Napoleon's accounts of travel through Egypt in Description de l'Egypte.  From this point on, Orientalism had a \\"scope\\" and was available for future Orientalists to further generalize the Orient for scientific, literary, and imperialist purposes.  Edward Said also argues that Orientalism benefited \\"professional scholars\\" and academic institutions because now an entire business based on the idea of Western superiority was created to help serve the above-mentioned scientists, anthropologists, and political thinkers.  The modern Orientalist, Said argues, was \\"in his view, a hero rescuing the Orient from the obscurity, alienation, and strangeness which he himself had properly distinguished.\\" (121)  Orientalism not only flourished, but new assumptions made on the old ones only served to perpetuate further the untrue notions on which Orientalism was founded.  After Said describes the endeavors of various Orientalists including Chateaubriand, Larmartine, and finally, Richard Burton, the reader is given exhaustive evidence of how Orientalism grew into what it is today; more Orientalism.  Orientalism now, Said says, is only the same idea of generalizing and, in a sense, primitivizing the \\"other\\" through modern-day \\"area-studies.\\"  Because these area studies are from a long and established tradition of Orientalism, they are only an extension of, not reaction to, all the misconceptions encapsulated in Orientalism.  Although Edward Said's Orientalism is an illuminating history of an idea (Orientalism) and how it was created, propagated, and continues to exist, his volume is nonetheless redundant and hostile in tone that made me immediately dislike it and put me on the defensive.  In no instance did I find Said to be self--critical; his arguments were set forth like dogma.  His extensive endeavors to list the faults generated by &quot;Orientalism&quot; are in some cases based on false assumptions.  That is, there have been nations of Islamic people (i.e., the Ottoman Empire) who for over 500 years systematically enslaved and ruled over parts of Eastern Europe.  These kinds of reverse atrocities are virtually ignored, probably because Said is only really documenting the past two centuries. In addition, I found very little in the area of proposals or alternatives to the way of conceptualizing the \\"Orient\\" other than what Said criticizes in his 300-plus-page book.  I understand that Said's mission was \\"to describe a particular system of ideas, not by any means to displace the system with a new one\\" (325) but in my opinion a history of a subject should allow the reader to conceive of and interpret ideas for a new system and because Said fervently rejected to do so, so did I.  In my opinion, Orientalism is also an example of where cultural history can become so subjective that unless the reader accepts the book without question, it serves little purpose other than as an outlet for anger on the part of the author and as testament to how tenuous a historian's job is when he or she lets a particular view so obviously overpowering the content of the text.	2001-08-23
US	51979525	R4QQOW161RHL2	0674766911	568753247	The Return of Martin Guerre	Books	5	47	52	N	N	Not only Entertaining, but a New Genre of History	Natalie Zemon Davis book The Return Of Martin Guerre is a finely detailed, readable and well-researched account of the famous Martin Guerre and his impostor, Arnauld du Tilh.  But even more than simply outlining the facts of the story, Davis also uses her research to enlighten us on the roles of different family members in 16th Century rural French life, the politics of family life and peasant life in general, and the role of the growing shift from Catholicism to Protestantism among the elite as well as the peasant classes.  In relation to family and marriage life, Davis uses Bertrande de Rols, Martin Guerres wife, as an example of a strong, virtuous woman with familial duty and an obstinate nature.  Davis uses this characterization to explain how de Rols was not a weak-minded woman who was so easily duped by her missing husbands impostor, but was rather a woman who was in love and used her strength in order to fascillitate her new relationship with Arnauld du Tilh: Either by explicit or tacit agreement, she helped him become her husband.  Bertrande de Rols, according to Davis, is an example of the more broad-minded and less misogynist peasant society of the village of Artigat in 16th Century France.  Through Bertrande de Rols, learn about how surprisingly fair the law was towards women: The testaments in the area around Artigat rarely benefit one child but instead provide dowries for the daughters....(If there are only daughters, the property is divided equally among them) (11)  Natalie Zemon Davis The Return Of Martin Guerre  is also a deeper historical chronicle of changes in the shift from French Catholicism to the new religion of Protestantism.  She uses the new Martin Guerre and Bertrande de Rols entire relationship to characterize the relaxing religious laws that were seeping into courtrooms and the higher classes as well as the fields and the peasant classes.  Davis argues that the new religion might have been of interest to the new Martin Guerre and Bertrande de Rols because it supported their illicit relationship more than Catholicism. (48)  When doubt about the new Martin Guerres real identity began to unsettle the village of Artigat, Davis writes that the local supporters of the new protestant religion would have tended to believe the new Martin Guerre, whereas the Catholics sided with the accusations of false identity from his uncle, Pierre Guerre.  Changes in religious affiliation, however, are no clearer than in the case of the Jean de Coras, the reporter and judge with respect to the accusations brought under the new Martin Guerre.  Jean de Coras was proven to have had Protestant ties, and was eventually killed for them. (100)  However, he was also a very learned, educated, and passionate man with an upstanding career in law and, after the case of Martin Guerre, the literary world.  The idea that someone of so high a rank embraced the new religion shows that its influence at the time cannot be ignored.  The film version, because it is told through images rather than words and documents is much more a dramatic story that leaves us wondering about the true identity of Martin Guerre until the very end.  The film is  a more diluted, less fleshy chronicle of the same story told by Natalie Zemon Davis in her book and in terms of the new religion, the role of women in married life, and peasant life in general, the movie is much less informative than the book.  The film is a love story between Arnauld du Tilh and Bertrande de Rols and less a backdrop against which one can place the dramatic changes in religion taking place during the late 16th Century.  Bertrande de Rols is less of a strong feminine figure and more of an ingenue and her role as a weak-minded housewife is almost believable.  The religious aspects of the book are almost left out entirely, except for a Catholic priest who is depicted as a gambler and later accuses Arnauld du Tilh of being possessed by the devil.In respect to peasant life, however, the art direction in the film and the costumes match the descriptions by Davis in her book.  The working tools, the gray household, and the older (though clean) dresses accurately support the terms of a womans dowry outlined by Davis (17)  It is interesteing to know that Natalie Zemon Davis' book was actually a forum for her to supply the exhaustive research and theories that were left out of the film, on which she worked previously to writing the book.  Her work as a historian spans across media and is always interesting and refreshing.	2001-08-23
US	51979525	RLB7ZB091LOOS	075460148X	38737644	Records of Girlhood: An Anthology of Nineteenth-Century Womens Childhoods (The Nineteenth Century Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Middle-Class Girlhoods	In an effort to comprehend the practice of writing memoirs as modern women, we must reflect upon and understand the climate of those women who have written near-forgotten personal histories, splendidly resurrected in this anthology of nineteenth century girlhoods.  This compilation of recollections stands in direct contrast to those of nineteenth century male writers, for whom the practice of writing autobiographies was more acceptable.  Among the varied female voices in this volume- from Amelia Opie to Sara Coleridge to Fanny Kemble- one dominant theme emerges, that of the Victorian feminine generation's unsatisfied emotions inevitably channeled through creative media, mainly fiction.  Male contemporaries frowned upon women's practice of writing autobiographies.  However, as this volume suggests, this did not preclude women from recording their girlhoods in vivid prose, arguably more imaginative and colorful than the writing of their male counterparts.  Frustrations with schooling, familial tensions, and a banquet of fears emerge through these women's words, and they offer a peculiar kind of consolation for modern-day aspiring female writers in that the problems are not so different from those plaguing female diarists today.  The uniformity of class and status of the women included in this volume is occasionally a disadvantage, for it prevents the reader from understanding what the experiences of women of other ethnicities and class may have been like in comparison.  But the difficulty in the project of retrieving mere upper-middle class women's writings is evidenced in this anthology, which may hopefully be used as a platform to archive the writings of further underrepresented voices in volumes to come.	2001-04-20
US	51979525	R1TUA3MMRV0KU2	0252068882	319949345	The Loony-Bin Trip	Books	4	11	15	N	N	The Loony Bin Trip	Written between 1982 and 1985, The Loony-Bin Trip is overwhelmingly an effort to revert common notions of depression so that, like &quot;grief,&quot; it may be allowed to enter the popular vocabulary.  Millet achieves her foremost intent through her undeniably exquisite prose supplanted by already-changing attitudes toward depression among the public.  However, The Loony Bin Trip is much more than a diatribe against prevailing stigmas of depression - it is a tender account of a talented, intelligent women's relentless desire to be accepted and understood by her contemporaries.  Traumatic accounts and vivid self-reflection can occasionally prompt the most neutral reader into turmoil, thus rendering The Loony Bin Trip a cross-reference somewhere between memoir and horror.  Her gut wrenching appeals for sympathy may provoke anger in some readers, reinforcing her real-life role as that of a &quot;crazy&quot; woman, but ultimately, her wealth of writings prove her to be a functional, if not creatively contributing, member of society. Reading Kate Millet's The Loony Bin Trip is a trip in itself. (Review written for Women's Studies: An Interdisciplinary Journal,&quot; a publication of the Claremont Colleges.	2001-04-20
US	51979525	R2HBBS6AXEAA5A	1566397537	935317418	Orientals: Asian Americans in Popular Culture	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Popular Culture and the History of Racism	Robert G. Lee eloquently and effectively illustrates how the construct of race in America operated to perpetuate racist notions towards Asian American immigrants.  The history of ascribed racism towards Asian Americans had its roots in the mid 19th Century, and it operated under an American system of placing cultural meaning on the body.  Racist notions toward Asian Americans were created chiefly to solidify the American sense of nationality and cohesion that was absent, and needed in order to facilitate American identity. Lee examines how racist ideas were perpetuated and transmitted through popular culture in the \\"six faces of the Oriental,\\" the pollutant, the coolie, the deviant, the yellow peril, the model minority, and the gook.  These caricatures implied that all Asian Americans fell in to one of six categories, and this stereotyping precluded most Asian Americans from functioning as individuals in American society.  Systematic \\"typing\\" of the Asian Americans in America, Lee argues, functioned to maintain systems that were larger and more socially driven.  These complex social practices were not lost on many Asian Americans, however, and many Asian Americans consistently challenged the unfair ideology of a nation that at once promoted individuality while denying the right to that individuality though six invariable types.  Lee cleverly illustrates how each of the six types gave meaning to the Asian body by showing how each stereotype functioned at different periods in America's history.  America's first encounter with the Asian Americans quickly led to the idea that they were \\"pollutants\\" in their religious practices, or were, as Lee calls them, \\"\\"Heathen Chinee' on God's Free Soil.\\"  The alien body of the Asian American subsequently served as a system of white working class identity in the \\"coolie.\\"  As \\"deviants,\\" the Asian Americans challenged not only racial but gendered ideas as well, and the forced prostitution of Chinese women prior to arriving to America led them to become a sexualized threat.  Apparent as threats to Victorian ideas of domesticity and gentility, sexuality perpetuated the Chinese women' subservience not only to men but women as well.  As the \\"yellow peril\\" Asian immigrants represented a larger anxiety towards all immigrants. Lothrop Stoddard's 1920 publication, The Rising Tide of Color was a pseudo-scientific rally to abort Asian immigration, claiming that the Asian immigrants were a racial threat to American society and thus their presence was indeed a \\"peril.\\"  The \\"model minority\\" during the Cold War functioned through the financial success of the Asian immigrants, establishing them as a veritable consumer market.  The \\"model minority\\" gave birth to the \\"gook,\\" which was actually a response to America's eventual de-industrialization after the Cold War.  At this point, according to Lee, America continues to racialize Asians as \\"Orientals,\\" through allusions to the previous six typecastings as well as newer forms of racial categories complexly tied to economics. Orientals:  Asian Americans in Popular Culture is at once an excellent social history of Asian immigrants in America as well as a cultural history of American racism, and its questions lead to examining the problems and faults with the latest \\"oriental\\" category.ca led them to become a sexualized threat.  Apparent as threats to Victorian ideas of domesticity and gentility, sexuality perpetuated the Chinese women' subservience not only to men but women as well.  As the \\"yellow peril\\" Asian immigrants represented a larger anxiety towards all immigrants. Lothrop Stoddard's 1920 publication, The Rising Tide of Color was a pseudo-scientific rally to abort Asian immigration, claiming that the Asian immigrants were a racial threat to American society and thus their presence was indeed a \\"peril.\\"  The \\"model minority\\" during the Cold War functioned through the financial success of the Asian immigrants, establishing them as a veritable consumer market.  The \\"model minority\\" gave birth to the \\"gook,\\" which was actually a response to America's eventual de-industrialization after the Cold War.  At this point, according to Lee, America continues to racialize Asians as \\"Orientals,\\" through allusions to the previous six typecastings as well as newer forms of racial categories complexly tied to economics. Orientals:  Asian Americans in Popular Culture is at once an excellent social history of Asian immigrants in America as well as a cultural history of American racism, and its questions lead to examining the problems and faults with the latest \\"oriental\\" category.	2001-03-15
US	51979525	R1MD8C5O135OOB	0674444175	986827425	Jewish Immigrant Associations and American Identity in New York, 1880-1939	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mutual Aid as Metaphor	By chronicling the history of the landsmanshaftn in American consciousness, Soyer successfully argues against the idea that Americanization was a process imposed upon from above; rather, that Americanization was pursued independently by Eastern European immigrants, thus granting them agency.  The changing economy, increased industrialization, and growing populations as well as anti Semitism in Russia and Romania forced Jews from across Eastern Europe to migrate to New York.   It was in America that the Jewish immigrant populations first came across ideas of fraternal orders, mutual aid societies and other democratic systems, thus transforming the structure of their own societies.  In America, Jews learned the importance of voluntary organizations in perpetuating culture.  The landsmanshaftn came to incorporate fraternal rituals by binding members and giving them a sense of shared experience, simultaneously reconciling loyalties to native lands with a newfound American identity.  The landsmanshaftn differed from other societies in that their central concern was religious observance.  Through informal contracts and advertisements, the landsmanshaftn grew rapidly.  At first renting rooms in tenements for meetings, eventually the landsmanshaftn would rent meeting halls to perpetuate themselves as \\"defenders of Old-World religion\\" (page 50).  While using religion as a framework, the landsmanshaftn's primary mission was Americanization.  While they differed from each other in respects to the amount of influence of fraternal lodges, ideological orders and independent societies, the landsmanshaftn all shared the same disciplinary structure and membership criteria.  The common missions of all landsmanshaftn were to provide medical care, reimbursement of lost wages during illness, life insurance, funeral costs, emergency assistance and small interest-free loans.  These basic benefits remained the same for Eastern European Jewish immigrants in New York from the late nineteenththrough the early twentieth century.  The landsmanshaftn maintained the principle of mutual aid rather than a hierarchical notion of charity, mirroring the distinctly American notions of independence and self-reliance.  In chiefly supporting benefits and activities related to death, the landsmanshaftn were also unique to America, and they further mirrored the American notions of proper burial and dignity at death.  Although they were only a one-generation phenomena, the landsmanshaftn were distinctly American in that they adopted American principles of democracy and mutual aid.  They were testaments to the pervasive desire for Eastern European Jewish immigrants to adopt American principles in order for them to move about the host society with greater ease.  Daniel Soyer's Jewish Immigrant Associations and American Identity: 1880-1939 is an ambitious, dizzying volume of American Immigrant History.  It offers many examples of how the landsmanshaftn incorporated the American ideology of mutual aid, and how they grew from supplying simple community benefits to endorsing political reform.  The growth and expansion of the landsmanshaftn ultimately proves to be a metaphor of the American experience, and a greater understanding of the landsmanshaftn leads to a deeper comprehension of the American experience.	2001-03-15
US	51979525	R1XSGI4DTX9NMW	0786408480	212267762	Cauldron of Changes: Feminist Spirituality in Fantastic Fiction	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fantastic Spirituality	Using literary studies on feminist spirituality such as Carol Christ's Diving Deep and Surfacing:  Women Writers on Spiritual Quest (1980) as a springboard, author Janice C. Crosby successfully delves deeper into issues of spirituality in American women's fiction in her examination of literary critics and feminist spirituality theorists in Cauldron of Changes:  Feminist Spirituality in Fantastic Fiction.  Analysis of these hypertextual inquiries is necessary, according to Crosby, if we are to develop a better understanding of the nature of spirituality in feminist fiction versus the spirituality of non-feminist fiction.  Through considering thematic patterns and, to a degree, character analysis as well, Crosby further looks at the uniquely visceral components of feminist fantastic fiction.  Her special attention to popular fiction, which include texts by Alice Walker, Octavia Butler, Toni Morrison, Gloria Naylor, and Marion Zimmer Bradley, helps to illuminate her argument that feminist spirituality is a visible and important component of popular culture, and its influences are therefore more important than theorists of fantastic fiction have previously believed.  Janice C. Crosby has eloquently brought the contributions of less-examined writers who have until now been dismissed because of their feminist elements, and she has brought them into the larger realm of discourse on fantastic fiction and into positions of literary importance within that realm that they deserve.         The above review was originally written for &quot;Women's Studies: An Interdisciplinary Journal,&quot; a publication of the Claremont Colleges.	2001-03-08
US	51979525	RQFBTPY9Y1ANE	0791446883	730335674	Animal, Vegetable, or Woman?: A Feminist Critique of Ethical Vegetarianism	Books	4	12	42	N	N	Women and Children vs. Vegetarianism	In this slim but tightly packed volume, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Idaho Kathryn Paxton George has uncovered a brilliant glitch in the ethical vegetarian argument.  Arguing that due to the necessity for women to consume protein during pregnancy to insure healthy fetal development and for children to consume protein found in meats for growth puposes, this renders them morally wrong in the stance of ethical vegetarians such as Tom Regan and Peter Singer.  George compellingly uncovers how this is both wrong and unfair, simultaneously offering a new component to the ethical vegetarian argument that becomes necessary to factor in when one choses vegetariansim for moral puposes.  George's argument segues into issues of class as well, and she suggests that vegetariansim may also be a kind of luxury when executed for ethical puposes.  Uncovering how women were so boldy and deliberately ignored when moral philosophers created the argument against ingesting meat, George offers a glimpse into the still prevailing and disturbing notions of patriarchal power in constructing systems of right and wrong.               The above review was originally written for &quot;Women's Studies: An Interdisciplinary Journal,&quot; a publication of the Claremont Colleges.	2001-03-08
US	51979525	R21U3AVAY4NWED	0195080343	906709844	Divided Houses: Gender and the Civil War (Harc Global Change Studies; 1)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Gender Wartime Crisis in a Historical Perspective	Divided Houses:  Gender and the Civil War is a collection of essays pertaining to the crisis in gender relations that accompanied the Civil War in America.  As a collection, the essays present a narrative that chronicles the various impacts on gender that affected men and women, the North and the South, as well as slaves and non-slaves.  What emerges is a cohesive body of text that is informative, illuminating, and instructive.  The themes most explored in this volume are those of empowerment through abolitionism.  In The Civil War as a Crisis in Gender Relations by Leann Whites, the two groups most perceptive of the gender crisis were Northern feminists and black abolitionists.  During the Civil War, the public status of motherhood increased.  This leads to another theme that will later be explored in following essays, that of the State as family.  In this first essay, Leann Whites argues that the Civil War created circumstances for gender equality, both diminishing white Southern male masculinity and increasing black manhood.  Ideas of manhood during the Civil War are further investigated in Part II and in Reid Mitchell's Soldiering, Manhood, and Coming of Age:  A Northern Volunteer.  The journey from civilian to soldier was mirrored in the transition from boyhood to manhood, and the constitution of manhood evolved as a delicate balance of masculinity and manly restraint.  During the Civil War, the body politic as well as the army assumed familial ties to facilitate solidarity.  Despite the changes in notions of manhood, for the black male population the \\"empowerment\\" was not always beneficial.  Jim Cullen's Gender and African-American Men details how conceptions of black manhood changed during the Civil War, with the mastery over one's own body leading to mastery in warfare.  Despite being placed on some of the most dangerous fronts, black soldiers endured low pay and high disease in exchange for their mastery over their bodies.  In Part III of Divided Houses:  Gender and the Civil War, the themes move from issues of manhood to those relating to women.  In Arranging a Doll's House:  Refined Women as Union Nurses author Kristie Ross writes about female volunteers on hospital transports, and she draws from the familial theme by presenting the hospital transport as the rearrangement of a doll's house to appear domestic.  Ross also reveals a sense of agency for women volunteers, claiming that many felt \\"...an eagerness to seize an occasion to escape the routine pattern of their lives and a familiarity with genteel standards of household organization.\\" (101)  Lyde Cullen Sizer's Acting Her Part:  Narratives of Union Women Spies also deals with the issue of female agency during the Civil War, but Sizer further examines the repercussions women felt depending on whether they were white or black.  For white women spies, their efforts were more dramatic than substantial, whereas for black abolitionists like Harriet Tubman the cause and consequences of being a spy were much more realistic.  Sizer's essay is also an attempt to place female spy narratives in a literary context from which they have been excluded.  Of all the essays in Divided Houses, none is more colorful and titillating than Michael Fellman's Women and Guerrilla Warfare.  Through his dramatic prose, Fellman explores how peacetime morality was subverted through guerrilla warfare, with male guerrilla fighters attacking traditional values while physically attacking women.  Fellman, doubtless, is presenting a form of psychological history by claiming \\"there was also an additional element here of bad boys acting out against a nagging, smothering mother.\\" (151)  For many Kansas guerrilla regiments during the Civil War, the \\"freeing\\" of slaves was an act of defiance rather than a moralistic pursuit. Guerrilla warfare finally reinforced the need for love, security, and family.  The fourth part of Divided Houses closely examines dynamics on the Southern homefront.  Peter Bardaglio's The Children of Jubilee:  African-American Childhood in Wartime explains how prior to the Civil War, slave children were age-segregated but not gender-segregated.  With freedom as a concept first emerging for many slaves during the Civil War, play activities among children became more gendered.  Martha Hodes's Wartime Dialogues on Illicit Sex:  White Women and Black Men further draws on the theme of black male power as a political issue emerging during the Civil War, which consequently led to sexuality itself becoming a political issue.  With most yeoman farmers at war, the homefront became a location for \\"illicit\\" sex as well as the performative stage for class discord.  The Southern states were not the only ones to feel the impact on gender relations that the Civil War created: Part V examines gender issues on the Northern homefront with Patricia R. Hill's Writing Out the War:  Harriet Beecher Stowe's Averted Gaze.  In Part VI, essays examine how the politics of Reconstruction became gendered, with Northern women beginning to campaign for the vote and new labor opportunities for African-American men and women.  In spite of these advances, however, the ruling classes in the South still attempted to exert authority and black women were still subjected to southern white male violence, as evidenced in Catherine Clinton's concluding essay, Reconstructing Freedwomen.  Divided Houses:  Gender and the Civil War is a combination of various historiographical methodologies;  cultural, social, psychological, intellectual and political, which simultaneously present a coherent and evocative study of wartime's affect on gender relations.  In addition to mapping themes in gender relations during war, narratives of women's undertaking of professional and managerial duties while men were fighting in the Civil War provides a historical anchoring of the themes of female labor that were to arise again during the First, and especially Second, World War.	2001-03-06
