US	51972064	R1LPQC09JJ69R7	0816040362	994183793	Cultural Atlas of Ancient Egypt	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Excellent maps and illustrations	As Baines and Malek explained in their introduction, they attempted to make this atlas useful for those readers who might plan to travel to Egypt and visit the ancient sites.  The authors made good on this claim by devoting over half of the atlas to a section entitled \\"A Journey Down the Nile\\", which provides a survey of ancient sites that are encountered while traveling down the Nile from Elephantine towards the Delta.  Archaeological finds are briefly introduced for each location through a combination of discussion, illustrations, and frequent maps.  Since this part of the atlas is organized according to geography (south to north along the Nile), sites from different historical periods are inevitably mixed together, which leads to a confusing sequence of, for example, Ptolemaic temples followed by New Kingdom tombs followed by Predynastic graves and so on.  While this arrangement might be useful as a travel guide of sorts, armchair travelers (like myself) who expect a continuous development of ideas may be disappointed.  Perhaps if the authors had organized their \\"Journey\\" chronologically as well as geographically, this atlas would have had more of an impact on its readership, especially when reinforced by the plethora of photos, illustrations, and maps that are present. <br /> <br />Despite this misgiving, I thought that the short articles that constitute the remainder of the atlas were informative and interesting.  Topics covered in these articles include Egyptian art, religion, and writing, among others.  And of course, numerous photos and diagrams are provided that are a pleasure in and of themselves. <br /> <br />As far as I'm concerned, the major strengths of the \\"Cultural Atlas of Ancient Egypt\\" are the excellent historical maps, the floor diagrams of the major sites, and the visual delight provided by the beautiful photos.  Although the geographical framework is a limitation, the strengths outweigh the weaknesses, and this book will probably be able to satisfy the \\"Egyptomania\\" fix of many readers. <br />	2005-02-23
US	51972064	R2EPXEN0SR7N6V	0226452387	766996493	The Sumerians: Their History, Culture, and Character (Phoenix Books)	Books	5	144	149	N	N	Some overlap but still a great book	This book was originally written as an addition to Kramer's previous work \\"History begins at Sumer\\".  Eventually, however, a revised version of \\"History begins at Sumer\\" was published and incorporated a lot of material from \\"The Sumerians\\".  Consequently, readers who have already become acquainted with \\"History begins at Sumer\\" may experience a bit of deja vu when reading the present book.  For example, the chapters on Sumerian literature, education, and character contain extensive overlap with Kramer's other work.  Despite this fact, Kramer's excellent discussion of Sumerian history, society and religion in \\"The Sumerians\\" still makes this book well-worth reading.  As an added bonus, the appendix contains the Sumerian king list, the Code of Lipit-Ishtar (a forerunner of Hammurabi), and numerous other interesting translations. <br /> <br />I disagree with previous reviewers who claim that Kramer was prejudiced against the Sumerians and considered them to be inferior to their Semitic heirs.  Indeed, if anything, I would say that Kramer emphasizes the legacy left by the Sumerians and the mark that they left behind on Semitic culture.  The last chapter considers this subject in greater detail and also provides some interesting parallels between Sumerian culture and the Bible.  Regardless of the negative criticism, \\"The Sumerians\\" is a great introduction to the history and culture of this ancient civilization and is worth checking out.	2005-02-17
US	51972064	R1D739MJ8R873U	0226631877	420222478	Ancient Mesopotamia: Portrait of a Dead Civilization	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A paradigm shift for Assyriology?	\\"Ancient Mesopotamia\\" struck me as being a wake-up call to Assyriologists to get their act together regarding the study of Mesopotamia.  In his preface and introduction, Oppenheim bewails the Western bias of Assyriology and its imminent fossilization if things didn't change.  It seemed to me that the crux of Oppenheim's argument was that the field's emphasis on the humanities put undue focus on the surviving literary texts, which as he pointed out, make up only a tiny fraction of the cuneiform tablets that the ancients deemed worthy of collecting in their libraries.  As a result, in our attempts to understand Mesopotamian culture, too much importance may have been placed on texts that were not even part of the \\"mainstream of tradition\\".  Even if we ignore this difficulty, Oppenheim argued that using literary techniques to study these texts ignores the possibility that the tablets had an altogether different meaning for the ancient Mesopotamians than just \\"great literature\\".    Rather, Oppenheim suggested that Assyriologists should decipher tablets that would shed light on various cultural aspects such as the economy, trade, technology, and medicine.  Doing this would lead to a more accurate impression of Mesopotamia in a way that the ancients themselves may have seen it.  And this would also avoid the danger of Assyriology becoming a self-justifying field with only limited relevance to its namesake culture.    Although my review has focused on the author's views of his own field, most of the book itself deals with a broad survey of the culture and history of the Semitic-speaking peoples of Mesopotamia.  After giving us his ideas at the beginning of the book on what the paradigm of Assyriology should be, Oppenheim proceeded to do a remarkable job of putting these ideas into practice in the rest of the book.  Limited use is made of direct quotations from texts, since as the author put it, \\"Translated texts tend to speak more of the translator than their original message\\".  Additionally, some of the author's thoughts on the Mesopotamians are different from others in the field.  For example, in describing the Code of Hammurabi and other publicly displayed law codes, Oppenheim speculated that they were meant to serve as the king's acknowledgement of social injustice and his vision of how things should be.  In other words, the law codes were meant to be statements of the king, not necessarily a collection of laws to be enforced.    I felt that \\"Ancient Mesopotamia\\" provides an excellent narrative of the history, culture, and religion of this civilization, and would be well-regarded by those who have an interest in this time and place.  I am not an Assyriologist and I have only limited knowledge of the impact that Oppenheim may have had on the field, but I would also suggest that this book does a good job of marking the evolutionary development of Assyriology as it occurred up to the 1960's.	2005-01-21
US	51972064	RWALBTTN9KLZW	0801868645	650748632	Everyday Life in Ancient Mesopotamia	Books	5	22	22	N	N	An entertaining and insightful book for the general reader	\\"Everyday Life in Ancient Messopotamia\\" offers an interesting option to the general reader who is interested in Ancient Mesopotamia but is put off by most of the dry and academic texts that are currently available on this topic.  As Bottero stated in his foreword, he wanted the reader to become acquainted with the Mesopotamian culture through vivid impressions, much as a tourist would gain when visiting a foreign country for the first time.  All exaggerations aside, Bottero really manages to do a very good job of igniting the reader's interest in this part of the ancient world.    Although I felt that the chapters on food and wine were a bit overextended, the rest of the book provides a solid and entertaining discussion of Mesopotamia.  The chapters dealing with women in Mesopotamian society were quite interesting, where Bottero suggests that women may have had more leverage power in dealing with men than would be suggested by the textual evidence.  Additionally, Georges Roux's discussion of the origins of the Semiramis legend are equally appealing.  One of the things that impressed me about this book was the ability of the various contributors to throw a new light on old ideas, thus allowing the reader to gain new insights.  For example, one theory that made me think was Bottero's idea that the use of writing to communicate decrees made by the king may have prepared the Mesopotamians to accept the possibility that the gods might issue their decrees through the movements of the celestial bodies.  And just as there were experts to read the texts, there originated the need to obtain experts in astrology who could interpret the heavenly bodies.  I do not know if this is a widely supported idea in the Assyriological community, but nevertheless, the ability of the various contributors to communicate to the general reader is a definite strong point of this book.    I highly recommend this book as a good starting point to Mesopotamia, since it will leave the reader (like myself) wanting to learn more.	2004-11-19
US	51972064	R25YNIFL4383OD	0766131246	923580609	Codes of Hammurabi and Moses	Books	5	26	27	N	N	An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth	A number of Mesopotamian achievements that form the basis of Western civilization include writing, astronomy, literature, and agriculture.  Another innovation that needs to be included in this list is the creation of law codes.  The Code of Hammurabi is certainly not the oldest law code to have been written, but it is the most complete to have been found.  As such, this has allowed us to fully explore the influence that this document and others like it had on the development of the Torah.    In this book that was originally published in 1905, W.W. Davies attempts to defend the possibility that a law code as \\"perfect\\" as the Law of Moses could have been written as early as the second millenium B.C. by providing another lawcode that was just as developed and sophisticated, but written even earlier in the third millenium B.C.  Note that it is now generally agreed that Hammurabi's Code was written in the early part of the second millenium B.C.  In any event, Davies defends his claim in this book by looking for parallels between the law codes of Hammurabi and Moses.    The translation presented in this book is based on the stele preserved in the Louvre in Paris.  The code consists of 282 laws, 34 of which (Nos. 66-99) have been lost.  Although this translation was made before 1905, it is my understanding that the lost laws remain undiscovered up to today.  Therefore, in terms of structural integrity, the translation presented here should still be accurate.    I got the impression that Hammurabi's code was similar to a \\"frequently encountered disputes\\" list, which local judges could refer to in order to adjudicate common cases.  Therefore, Hammurabi's code is not meant to provide a verdict on every possible dispute under the sun (that would be futile), but to provide a standard procedure for common cases.    By reading the law code of Hammurabi, it's possible to gain a flavor of some of the contemporary problems faced by the Babylonians in the early second millenium B.C.A lot of the laws deal with contract disputes, property disputes, the rights of women, and guidelines for professional practice.  After reviewing the type of problems that the Babylonians had to face, it really becomes apparent that the Mesopotamian civilization achieved a level of sophistication that was absolutely unrivalled in their day.	2004-10-24
US	51972064	R3CJGE00Y09XOF	1883053099	223145754	From Distant Days: Myths, Tales, and Poetry of Ancient Mesopotamia	Books	5	31	31	N	N	An impressive collection of Mesopotamian literature	Benjamin Foster's book contains many original compositions from the major literary genres of Sumero-Akkadian culture: myths, king epics, omen literature, prayers, lamentations, love lyrics, wisdom literature, magic spells, and even humor.  Indeed, although the Epic of Gilgamesh is noticeably absent, \\"From Distant Days\\" is one of the most comprehensive Mesopotamian anthologies available for the general reader. <br /> <br />Foster's introduction lays down the organization of the book and describes many of the structural markers used in Sumero-Akkadian literature.  Each presented composition is also accompanied by an appropriate description that gives context for the modern reader.  The translations in this book are very readable, with lacunae and omissions clearly marked.  Also, the translations are current as of 1995, and include versions that are considerably more complete in some cases than ones available in other widely available anthologies. <br /> <br />My favorite parts of the book focused on the wisdom literature and lamentations, since the subject matter dealt primarily with human feelings and experiences, rather than monotonous praise of the gods.  I was amazed at how the feelings expressed in these 3000-4000 year old compositions still managed to strike a chord of resonance with me.  One also cannot help but notice the many parallels that exist between the Bible and the older literary corpus of Mesopotamia. <br /> <br />For the reader who is looking for a good anthology of Mesopotamian literature, I would readily recommend \\"From Distant Days\\".  Furthermore, I believe this book along with two others would form an authoritative collection of Sumero-Akkadian original compositions translated into English.  The two other books are \\"The Epic of Gilgamesh\\" by Andrew George (ISBN 0140449191) and \\"The Harps that Once...\\" by Thorkild Jacobsen (ISBN 0300072783). <br /> <br />	2004-10-15
US	51972064	R2JV8N6SAANVMU	0192835890	968450359	Myths from Mesopotamia: Creation, the Flood, Gilgamesh, and Others (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	123	126	N	N	A good introduction, but not the most recent translation	Dalley presents many of the major myths of the Mesopotamian culture including \\"The Epic of Creation\\", \\"Atrahasis\\" (The Flood Myth), and \\"The Epic of Gilgamesh\\".  Additionally, short essays are provided for most of the translations that help the modern reader to understand the stories.  I thought Dalley's introduction did a good job of discussing structural markers and literary devices used in Mesopotamian poetry.    Since this book was published in 1990, more recent translations have become available.  For example, Benjamin Foster's \\"From Distant Days\\" was published in 1995 and provides more complete translations of many of the same myths presented in Dalley.  For example, the \\"Etana\\" myth in Foster includes a major portion of Tablet IV, which is completely missing in Dalley.  Andrew George's \\"The Epic of Gilgamesh\\", which was published in 2003, contains a more complete translation of this story, along with Old Babylonian and Sumerian predecessors.    Despite these translation issues, general readers who want to sample a bit of Mesopotamian literature will most likely be pleased with Dalley's book.  Dalley's translations are very accessible, despite the numerous gaps and ommissions present in the texts.  For the person who wants a more complete anthology of Mesopotamian literature, I would recommend Foster's book, since he presents other types of literary genre, such as king legends, prayers, and love charms, in addition to more current translations of the major myths.	2004-10-04
US	51972064	R24BCRE6J9PPAY	0300072783	894682356	The Harps that Once...: Sumerian Poetry in Translation	Books	5	36	36	N	N	An impressive collection of Sumerian literature	As the oldest body of literature in the world, Sumerian poetry represents man's first adaptation of writing to express ideas and beliefs far more complex than the \\"highly structured\\" applications such as accounting for which writing was originally invented.  Many people believe that the ideas and mythological figures present in Sumerian poetry are echoed in the later traditions of Ancient Greece, Ancient Israel, and even Christianity.  Clearly then, any person interested in the history of Western literature would be doing themselves a great disservice by ignoring their Sumerian origins.    The book is divided into eight parts:  (1) Dumuzi Texts, (2) Royal Lovesongs, (3) Hymns to Gods, (4) Myths, (5) Epics, (6) Admonitory History, (7) Hymns to Temples, and (8) Laments for Temples.  Thorkild Jacobsen describes most of the Sumerian literary corpus as being works of praise, such as to a god, a king, or a dead relative.  Instead of describing human feelings or ambitions, most of these works serve a ceremonial purpose or are explanations for why the world is the way it is.  As a result, many of the poems in this book can be difficult to connect with, since they are taken out of context.  Although written down on clay tablets, Jacobsen and others have suggested that Sumerian literature was meant to be narrated orally.  As such, an element that is missing from our modern translation is the narrator's embellishment of the story through improvisation, voice intonation, and body language/facial expression.    Nevertheless, it is still possible to get a glimpse into the mindset of the ancient Mesopotamians by reading their literature.  The ancient Mesopotamians considered themeselves to have been created by the gods for the express purpose of serving them hand and foot.  Apart from this, they had no reason to be.  I felt that much of the poetry found in Jacobsen's book represented the Sumerians' desire to maintain the status quo through praise of the gods, currying their favor,and begging for mercy.    \\"The Harps That Once...\\" is a fine anthology of Sumerian literature and I would heartily recommend the book to anyone interested in sampling the literature of ancient Mesopotamia.  I would also recommend \\"The Epic of Gilgamesh\\" translated by Andrew George (2003) (ISBN 0140449191) since it contains five of the Sumerian Gilgamesh stories, which complement nicely the collection represented in Jacobsen's book.	2004-09-29
US	51972064	R2S1FPG8HUMSXR	0812212762	584425665	History Begins at Sumer: Thirty-Nine Firsts in Recorded History	Books	5	13	13	N	N	39 examples of our Sumerian legacy	This book is a collection of essays written by Samuel Noah Kramer regarding various cultural \\"firsts\\" in Western history as discovered on Sumerian cuneiform tablets.  Kramer's experience and prolific career as a Sumerologist lend credence to the observations and interpretations that he puts forth here.  Essay topics range from anecdotal illustrations of the first recorded lullaby and the first written description of an aquarium to more profound subjects such as the first cosmology and the first heroic age.<br /><br />I particularly enjoyed Kramer's comparative discussion of the three \\"Heroic Age\\" cultures (Greek, Indian, Germanic) and the suggestions that this raises regarding the origin of the first Heroic Age in Sumer.  Also interesting are his interpretations of literary imagery in Sumerian poetry, as well as his treatment of the extensive parallels that exist between the Sumerian literary tradition and the Bible.<br /><br />All in all, \\"History Begins at Sumer\\" provides a well-rounded perspective of Sumerian spirituality and culture.  However, since this book is really a collection of independent, stand-alone essays, the reader may find it difficult at times to extract a unified impression of what the author was trying to express.	2004-09-15
US	51972064	ROGRIMOV1EEDW	014012523X	709379609	Ancient Iraq: Third Edition (Penguin History)	Books	5	73	73	N	N	An essential purchase for anyone interested in Mesopotamia	Georges Roux stated that his goal in writing \\"Ancient Iraq\\" was to provide the layman reader with a cohesive introduction to the history of ancient Mesopotamia, incorporating archaeological and historical finds up to 1992.  In this regard, I think Roux succeeded splendidly, and he did so by pointing out and explaining general patterns in Mesopotamian history.  This book really breathes life into the ancients and allows the reader to see beyond the cold and lifeless sculptures and tablets. <br /> <br />Although the book is full of interesting topics, what really struck me was how long the Sumerian culture managed to exist in some form or another despite the successive waves of foreign invaders.  To survive 3000 years in such unstable conditions really demonstrates how sophisticated and influential Sumero-Akkadian culture was at that time. <br /> <br />As the title suggests, \\"Ancient Iraq\\" deals primarily with ancient civilizations that resided within the confines of modern-day Iraq.  As a result, the Sumerians, Babylonians, and Assyrians ae given center stage, while other cultures in the Near East, such as the Egyptians, Hittites, and Persians are only briefly reviewed, despite their interaction with the Mesopotamians. <br /> <br />Pictures, maps, and various timelines are also included in the book.  Unfortunately, pictures of artifacts are either B&W photos or simple line drawings, and I felt this presentation really failed to bring forth the beauty inherent in such objects.  Many of the same photos are presented in color in another book (\\"The Cultural Atlas of Mesopotamia\\"), and the difference is like night and day.  Nevertheless, I should say that Roux's narrative does not suffer at all from this slight shortcoming, and most readers probably will not care about the visual aids. <br /> <br />All in all, I found this book to be quite engaging and believe that anybody interested in ancient Mesopotamia should have this book in their personal library.  It was a anotherreviewer's opinion that this was the best book of its kind available on the market today.  I wholeheartedly agree.	2004-08-12
US	51972064	R1YZW6DWOGNZM8	0816022186	145068659	The Cultural Atlas of Mesopotamia and the Ancient Near East	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Good overview of the &quot;Cradle of Civilization&quot;	This atlas covers the historical development of the ancient Near East (with an emphasis on ancient Mesopotamia) from Paleolithic times to the conquest of the Persian empire by Alexander the Great.  Michael Roaf does an excellent job of illustrating the book with color photos of artifacts, stone inscriptions, and maps that reinforce the discussion in the text.  At appropriate points in the book, special features are included that focus on specific archaelogical sites around the Middle East as well as on significant cultural and scientific developments that occurred.<br />The main part of the book is 223 pages long, of which approximately half is devoted to photos, maps, and features.  However, this is not simply a picture book; the atlas also includes a historical narrative that I found to be quite engaging and accessible for a general reader like myself.  Additionally, besides being a good introduction to ancient Mesopotamia, this atlas provides a wealth of archaelogical data that may serve as a good reference for those who are undergoing more advanced reading.  Examples of such data include the layout of existing ruins, geographical distributions of archaelogical finds, and a gazetteer that provides the coordinates of ancient sites in the Middle East.<br />On the negative side, I found that the index often provided faulty page references to subjects and a few typos can be found throughout the text.  Nevetheless, these blemishes do not take away from the book's main goal of providing an illustrated introduction to ancient Mesopotamia for the general reader.  <br />I understand that Checkmark Books (who published this atlas in 1990) has recently published a new book entitled &quot;The Historical Atlas of Ancient Mesopotamia&quot; by Norman Hunt.  I have not seen this more recent book nor have I read any reviews about it, but potential buyers may wish to inquire about it before purchasing the 1990 atlas.<br />In any event, I think that &quot;The Cultural Atlas of Mesopotamia and the Ancient Near East&quot; would be a valuable addition to the library of anyone who is interested in ancient history.  I know that this book will be in my collection for a long time to come.	2004-07-14
US	51972064	R3OF2DTPND70LV	0393050947	62636871	The Well-Educated Mind: A Guide to the Classical Education You Never Had	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Read this book in addition to Adler and Van Doren	The goal of this book is to show how the Great Books can be engaged by applying the methods of classical education to enable more effective reading, analysis, and criticism.  I think Bauer did a great job in meeting this task by providing detailed guidelines for tackling five different literary genres (novels, autobiographies, history, drama, and poetry).  In addition, she backs up the use of these guidelines by providing short histories that describe the development of each genre and which, as a result, show readers what they should be looking for in each type of work.  Finally, reading lists for each genre are provided to enable readers to practice their new skills in grammatical, logical, and rhetorical reading.<br />Although this book is publicized as being for the &quot;adult reader&quot;, I think that Bauer may have attempted to include the homeschooling crowd as well, especially considering that her  previous books were aimed toward this latter audience.  Consequently, an &quot;adult reader&quot; may find the first four chapters to be a bit patronizing as various issues are discussed, including how to make your own notebook, how to increase your vocabulary, how to set up a time for reading, etc.  However, once readers progress into the heart of the book (i.e. the discussion of the five literary genres), I think that they will be willing to forget their previous misgivings and find this to be a very useful guidebook (I did at least).<br />I believe that the suggestions presented in this book fit very nicely within the solid framework provided by Adler and Van Doren's &quot;How to Read a Book&quot;.  Adler and Van Doren do an excellent job of explaining why and how one should go about reading the Great Books for understanding.  However, their discussion primarily focused on reading nonfictional works, and I felt that the suggestions they provided for reading fiction were a bit insufficient.  Consequently, I believe &quot;The Well-Educated Mind&quot; complementsAdler and Van Doren very nicely and would heartily recommend that these two books be read in conjunction.	2004-07-06
US	51972064	R14E23CTKAUW55	0671212095	711118249	How to Read a Book: The Classic Guide to Intelligent Reading (A Touchstone book)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	My conversion from being widely-read to well-read	I am an engineer by training, and since I have been out of grad school for a few years now, I enjoy reading books in order to occupy my mind.  However, I was what Adler and Van Doren would call a &quot;widely-read&quot; person, which is to say that I should have been pitied rather than respected.  This book really changed my perception of reading from being a casual hobby to a lifelong process of self-education, and so I am currently undergoing my conversion to being a well-read reader, or a person who reads for understanding not just information.<br />Others might scoff at my literary ignorance, but I was really impressed by Adler and Van Doren's suggestion that the Great Books should be read chronologically, in order to take part in this &quot;Great Conversation&quot; that has been going on since man learned how to write.  Previously, I had regarded the Great Books as so many individual stars in a literary universe, with absolutely no rhyme or reason on where to begin reading.  However, now, I am approaching these classics in a more disciplined way by following a chronological reading list, and this has added a dimension of understanding to my reading that I really had not encountered before.<br />Adler and Van Doren say a lot in this book that I agree with, and previous reviewers have done a good job of summarizing the levels of reading, and the activities associated with them.  However, I felt that the authors' suggestions for reading fiction were a bit vague and insufficient.  For example, Adler and Van Doren say that the &quot;truth&quot; of a work of fiction is determined by its beauty to the reader, and the reader should be able to point out in the book the source of this beauty.  Such a suggestion leaves a lot of things left unsaid and I felt that the authors could have commented a little more on how the reader could go about analyzing imaginative literature.<br />Nevertheless, this book is a classic.  If you consider yourself a serious reader, but have never been formally instructed in how to engage books, then I highly, wholeheartedly, and absolutely recommend that you read this book.	2004-06-29
US	51972064	R393U4BLJKPPDE	0140449191	452582083	The Epic of Gilgamesh (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	The Search for Immortality and the Fear of Death	I fully agree with the previous reviewers who praised the qualities of this book and the translations by Andrew George.  The introduction and supplementary material that accompany the standard version of the Gilgamesh epic really help to put this story into the proper historical context.<br />This was my first reading of the Gilgamesh epic and what surprised me most about this story was its humanistic focus, especially considering that most of the literature at that time focused on the gods and how they created the universe and mankind.  We learn about the superhuman heroes Gilgamesh and Enkidu, who openly spited the gods by performing deeds that ran counter to their interests.  After Enkidu dies, however, Gilgamesh gets a reality check and attempts to avoid a similar fate by searching for the secret of immortality.  Instead, he only discovers that even a powerful king like himself will never be able to escape death.  But he also learns that instead of performing silly quests like searching for immortality, Gilgamesh should &quot;seize the day&quot; and actively use his time among the living to perform actions that will make a king great to his people.  In this way, he will be able to ensure that his name lives on among future generations.  Now this is great literature!<br />As other reviewers have commented, Andrew George's translation of the Gilgamesh epic is very approachable and makes for very entertaining reading, even for the general reader (like me) who is not a serious student of ancient history.  However, if you want to study the history of the Western literary canon, you have to start here in Mesopotamia.	2004-06-02
US	51972064	R1R0OAZYMCL1OF	0030268583	213013475	Macroeconomics: Principles And Policy	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A good introduction to macroeconomics	\\"Increasing demand leads to rising interest rates which leads to reduced investment spending and appreciating currency exchange rates...\\"  The authors of \\"Macroeconomics\\" effortlessly provide the economic reasoning that underlie events like these such that they really make common sense - and without the need for rote memorization on the part of the reader.  A previous reviewer from Los Angeles did an excellent job in praising Baumol and Blinder for their clear and concise teaching, and I strongly agree with his comments.  Instead of going into abstract theories and ideas, Baumol and Blinder focus on making the reader understand the \\"real world\\" implications of macroeconomics.  For example, each chapter in their book introduces a different contemporary economic issue as a way to illustrate the ideas being described in the text.  Additionally, the authors outlined eight take-home messages that they believe the reader should remember after finishing the book.  Although the authors label these take-home messages as \\"Ideas for Beyond the Final Exam\\", these ideas are equally relevant for student and non-student alike.<br />It should be kept in mind that the eighth edition of this textbook was published in 1999, so most of the \\"contemporary\\" issues that are discussed within are now out of date.  In one chapter, for example, the authors' upbeat commentary on America's 1998 budget surplus seems sadly ironic considering the large budget deficit that we are currently dealing with in financing the War on Terror in 2003.  Additionally, I thought many of the examples in the book were a bit \\"pro-Clinton\\", and depending on one's own political orientation, that may or may not be welcome.  I have not looked at the ninth (and latest) edition of \\"Macroeconomics\\", but assuming that the fundamental principles remain the same, I would encourage the reader to pick up that copy in order to have a more current and up-to-date illustration of ideas.<br />Readers looking for mathematical modelsand equations to play with will be sorely disappointed, as the only foray into mathematical analysis involves deriving the demand-side equilibrium condition of the Keynesian economic model (a simple algebraic equation).  But considering that the slant of this book is towards \\"real world\\" understanding, I think the authors were probably justified in keeping the mathematical equations to a minimum.<br />All in all, I think \\"Macroeconomics\\" by Baumol and Blinder would be an excellent introduction for the economically-illiterate person (as I was before reading this book).  Although many of the examples in the eighth edition are a bit out of date, it is true that the fundamental economic principles that are discussed endure throughout all of the editions of this textbook.	2003-12-24
US	51972064	R1ULC7TSY3P0LR	1559706082	749832144	Imperial Legend: The Disappearance of Czar Alexander I	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The conqueror of Napoleon was conquered by his conscience	In &quot;Imperial Legend&quot;, the reader is introduced to the mystery surrounding the death of Alexander I in a tiny backwater town of southern Russia in 1825.  Troubetzkoy argues that Alexander I, who was continually wracked by guilt for his involvement in the death of his father, staged his own death so that he could renounce the crown and retire to a place where he could come to terms with his conscience.  The author presents evidence that a starets (wandering holy man) by the name of Feodor Kuzmich, who mysteriously appeared in Siberia in 1836, was none other than Alexander himself.  As Troubetzkoy tells us, this alleged connection between Alexander and Kuzmich has come to be known as the Imperial Legend.<br />The first part of the book is devoted to a brief biography of Alexander I and touches upon his relationship with his father Paul I and his grandmother Catherine the Great, both of whom exerted a profound influence on the young man's personality.  Equally important, Troubetzkoy provides a detailed account of the night when his father was forced to abdicate in favor of his son Alexander and was murdered in the process.  Although Alexander apparently did not have any direct involvement in this coup, he was forever traumatized by what he considered to be a patricide.  The second part of the book considers the scant information that is known about the starets Feodor Kuzmich as well as all of the mysterious circumstances and coincidences that add fuel to the Imperial Legend.<br />The book is written in a clear and engaging style that gave me an enjoyable reading experience from start to finish.  Although a number of editing errors were found in the text, these did not detract from the continuity of the story.  Since Alexander's guilt over his father's death is the major assumption underlying the Imperial Legend, I felt that Troubetzkoy could have done a better job in emphasizing the relationship between father and son.  As Troubetzkoy describes it, Alexander'sfather was a boorish neurotic who did not spend much time with his son and who harbored feelings of resentment against him.  Now what kind of son would feel guilt over the loss of a father like that?<br />I felt that most of the evidence linking Alexander and Feodor Kuzmich cited in this book was circumstantial and of a speculatory nature.  The reader is presented with a variety of first- and second-hand accounts that can no longer be substantiated today.  According to the book, only scant material evidence still exists that can show the two men were one in the same, with the rest of the evidence having mysteriously disappeared over the course of time (if in fact they existed at all).<br />Nevertheless, popular belief and all of the mysterious circumstances that were reported to have happened serve to make the Imperial Legend an intriguing bit of history.  Troubetzkoy stated that one of his major motivations in writing this book was to generate interest in the Imperial Legend in the hopes of raising funds needed to open the crypt of Alexander I in St. Petersburg.  I truly hope that Mr. Troubetzkoy succeeds in his task, because regardless of what is found in the crypt, his findings will be a significant addition to Russian history.	2003-11-26
US	51972064	R2UKW35SQYK9Y5	0195026187	716158370	America by Design: Science, Technology, and the Rise of Corporate Capitalism (Galaxy Books)	Books	4	27	30	N	N	A big capitalist conspiracy	In &quot;America by Design&quot;, David Noble argues that the rise of technology is synonymous with the rise of corporate capitalism in America.  Focusing on the period roughly between the 1880s and the end of the 1920s, the book examines how the discoveries of science began to be systematically applied by the &quot;useful arts&quot; of manufacturing for the purpose of increasing productivity and profits.  This birth of technology began the process of a gradual change in America as the early corporate capitalists attempted to establish 20th century routine along lines that would satisfy the needs of the new &quot;science-based&quot; industries.  As Noble chronicles the activities of these men (including Henry Pritchett, Hollis Godfrey, Frank Vanderlip, and Charles Steinmetz among others), I felt like he considered the history of American technology to be nothing more than a capitalist conspiracy to gain dominance of American society.  Interestingly, however, Noble tells the reader at the outset that having a &quot;consciousness of purpose&quot; as these men had is not the same as a conspiracy.  He unfortunately failed to explain why.<br />Noble tells us that technology is not the driving force behind social change.  Rather, technology merely offers the possibilities that are available; it is up to society to determine which of those possibilities are necessary for its own development.  In this regard, a major theme of this book is the emergence of the engineer - that specialist who was able to reconcile the possibilities offered by science with the needs of corporate capitalism.  The book describes the early efforts of these engineers to professionalize their status so that they could gain a monopoly over technological knowledge.  As a result, from the beginning, progress in technology took on a distinctively corporate appearance.  Unlike other professionals such as doctors and lawyers, however, the engineer was a &quot;corporate animal&quot; who did not have a professional identity beyond the corporation that employed him.  Noble describes the uncertainties experienced by these early engineers as they attempted to find their new identity in American society.<br />As the first generation of science-trained engineers climbed the corporate ladder into the ranks of management, management itself took on a scientific appearance.  The book describes the evolution of modern management with its emphasis upon using psychology and the other social sciences to control the behavior of the worker.  It was at this stage that the engineer turned from &quot;the engineering of materials&quot; to &quot;the engineering of men&quot;.<br />All in all, &quot;America by Design&quot; offers the reader a lot to think about.  I will say that some parts of the book were a bit confusing to read, primarily because of the &quot;alphabet soup&quot; of councils, committees, associations, and societies that David Noble threw in to chronicle the organizing activities of the corporate reformers.  Despite this, however, the book was still an eye-opener.  I learned that a lot of things that I used to take for granted in our society were actually deliberate creations of men who had a &quot;consciousness of purpose&quot;.	2003-11-02
US	51972064	RIQYHRJ1XN4HF	0271020741	220176942	Russia's First Civil War: The Time of Troubles and the Founding of the Romanov Dynasty	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A good historical narrative of Russia's Time of Troubles	The Time of Troubles designates that tumultuous period in early 17th century Russia that occurred after Tsar Fedor Ivanovich, the last member of the ruling dynasty, died without leaving a \\"God-chosen\\" heir to rule Russia.  What followed was a series of bitter dynastic struggles that left the weakened country prone to invasion by Swedish and Polish armies.  Indeed, the destruction and upheaval brought about by the Time of Troubles was so severe that Russia was very nearly destroyed.<br />In \\"Russia's First Civil War\\", Professor Dunning provides an analysis of the long-term origins of the Time of Troubles and follows this up with a rather detailed account of the various military conflicts that occurred during this seven year nightmare.  In the final chapters, Dunning provides his view of the inglorious beginning of the Romanov dynasty, and concludes with his assessment of the legacy that the Time of Troubles left behind and its influence on the subsequent progression of Russian history.<br />Upon reading this book, it becomes clearly evident that Professor Dunning is on a crusade to disavow what he calls the \\"traditional interpretation\\" of the Time of Troubles as a period of social unrest and violent protest against serfdom.  Dunning argues (with plenty of references) that the Time of Troubles was really a political crisis where the rebels who fought against the government were primarily interested in restoring the \\"God-chosen\\" Tsar Dmitrii to the throne, and not engaging in class warfare with the ruling elite.<br />I thought that Dunning's analysis into the underlying social, economic, and political causes of the Time of Troubles was truly the strong point of this book.  By comparing Russia's situation to similar crises that occurred in the early history of other states, he clearly showed that the Time of Troubles was not an isolated event in history and was able to draw some interesting observations from this analysis.  Furthermore, Dunning also has interesting things to say about the influence that this period exerted on the future development of the Russian state and society.  The book also contains good maps that effectively support the material discussed in the text, and which become especially important in understanding the geography of military conflicts.<br />As for the book's weaknesses, I thought that Dunning's description of the military campaigns that occurred during the Time of Troubles was a bit too detailed and unpleasant to read.  Since the Time of Troubles can be broken up into three (or maybe four) different phases of military conflict, it became rather difficult for me to follow the book at this point without everything becoming a blur of town names, dates, and the constant switching of alliances that seemed to occur among the boyars (aristocrats).  Additionally, the narrative style was a bit rough and awkward at times, such that I felt I was reading a written transcript of a few of Professor Dunning's class lectures.  Nevertheless, Dunning always managed to express his arguments clearly and engagingly enough such that a non-expert reader like me could follow along easily.<br />Although Russia's Time of Troubles may seem a rather esoteric subject to get into, \\"Russia's First Civil War\\" by Professor Dunning does a good job of shedding light on the history of 16th-17th century Russia.  I think that Russophiles would definitely find this book interesting, and even general interest readers may find something worthwhile.	2003-09-08
US	51972064	RN4OK8UK158CN	0679600108	551860371	Moby Dick: or the Whale (Modern Library)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	I sympathize with Ahab	On one level, \\"Moby Dick\\" is a story about a monomaniac who sought to wreak vengeance against the whale that took his leg. However, on a more symbolic level, the book is really about a man who became tired of being pushed around by a supernatural force that would not be retaliated against. Well, as Melville shows us, Ahab wanted to reverse that situation by settling the score.<br />Ahab thus states his position to God while watching a beautiful sunset over a calm ocean (Chapter 37): \\"I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies, - Take some one of your own size; don't pommel *me*! No, ye've knocked me down, and I am up again; but *ye* have run and hidden.....Come, Ahab's compliments to ye; come and see if ye can swerve me.\\"<br />Those are mighty big words, considering whom Ahab was daring. And if you consider in the first place that Moby Dick bit off Ahab's leg as an act of self-defense, then it would seem that the real bully in this situation was the captain himself. But he had it in his head that Moby Dick was a supernatural agent carrying out God's divine will. So, Ahab's real vendetta was not with the White Whale, but with God. As we find out in the story, this was a battle that he could never come close to winning.<br />If you really think about it though, Ahab really wasn't such a bad guy. After all, he was attempting to champion Man's rights before God and to protest the way Man seemed to suffer from God's unpredictable will, and these are all ideas that we as human beings can identify with. Nevertheless, such a challenge undertaken by Ahab was too much of a burden for him to handle, and in the end it consumed him spiritually.<br />I really thought \\"Moby Dick\\" was an outstanding read. It was unsettling at times, especially in describing the practices of a mid-1800's whaling ship, but which made it all the more brilliant for how Melville used this material to fuel his metaphysical exploration. If you decide to read this book, be sure to have a dictionary handy,because Melville exercises the English vocabulary in all its diversified glory.	2003-07-02
US	51972064	R280J0B24C7PER	0679410007	289712823	Anna Karenina (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Tolstoy's vision of utopia	Leo Tolstoy truly was one of the greatest social critics of his time and his influence easily rivalled that of Tsar Nicholas II and the Russian Orthodox Church.  Tolstoy believed that God existed in each individual soul (and not in the church) and that one could find meaning in life only by doing good for others.  He was excommunicated in 1901 for his beliefs (which later became known as Tolstoyism) and was denied a church burial when he died in November 1910.  Indeed, the fact that Tolstoy was able to communicate his views to his wide-ranging readership caused the Church to take such a reactionary position.  Much of what constituted his belief system found inspiration in the communal lifestyle of the Russian peasantry.  Tolstoy felt that the uncomplicated Christian lifestyle of the Russian peasant bespoke of a wisdom so profound, that he had more to learn from the peasant class than they had to learn from him, or any other member of the intelligentsia for that matter.<br />In many ways, \\"Anna Karenina\\" was an autobiographical sketch of Tolstoy's own life.  Many similarities have been drawn between Tolstoy and one of the characters in the story, Konstantin Dmitrievitch Levin, who, like Tolstoy, went through life looking for some meaning to existence and eventually found it by a return to basic Christian principles as exemplified by the peasants on his estate.  Levin's marriage to Kitty mirrored Tolstoy's own picture-perfect wedding to his wife Sonya in Moscow, and like Tolstoy, Levin experienced a life crisis brought about by his elder brother's death, also named Nikolai.  However, judging from what has been written on Tolstoy's married life with Sonya, I imagine that a more appropriate comparison could be made with Stepan Arkadyevitch Oblonsky or with Alexei Vronsky in that regard...<br />Anna Karenina is the eponymous heroine of this book, but her tragic fate is but one strand intertwined among many in this drawn-out masterpiece.  Although different readers will take home different messages from this story, I felt that the the stories of Kitty and Levin, Stiva and Dolly, Vronsky and Karenin, illustrated Tolstoy's belief that a communion among people, tempered by the Gospel, is all that is needed to achieve the natural order of things.  The final part of the story makes clear this system of morals that was played out in the lives of each of these remarkable characters up to the very end.  For example, Kitty and Levin achieve an ideal married life by learning to live for each other, and Dolly, although penniless and attached to a cheating husband, finds consolation in her life by learning to live for her children.  Anna Karenina, however, stands in stark contrast to all the others by living for herself and gradually isolating herself from society until her drug addiction fuels her paranoia and cynicism to a point that she can no longer be satisfied by Vronsky's assurances of his love for her.<br />I enjoyed reading \\"Anna Karenina\\", although I must admit that Dostoevsky's \\"The Brothers Karamazov\\" left a more lasting impression on me.  It was interesting to compare Dostoevsky's uncompromising faith brought about by life-changing spiritual metamorphosis to Tolstoy's own view, which seemed to acknowledge the difficulties of real-life relationships and the distractions that they pose to the expression of one's faith.  Even though Dostoevsky's vision of salvation and of finding God definitely is more awe-inspiring and beautiful, the practical Tolstoy view seems to be more realistic and believable.  I, at least, felt that I could attain such a state of redemption.  From a historical perspective, \\"Anna Karenina\\" also provides a tantalizing glimpse into the thought and culture of 1870's Russia, which any Russophile will enjoy reading.ake home different messages from this story, I felt that the the stories of Kitty and Levin, Stiva and Dolly, Vronsky and Karenin, illustrated Tolstoy's belief that a communion among people, tempered by the Gospel, is all that is needed to achieve the natural order of things.  The final part of the story makes clear this system of morals that was played out in the lives of each of these remarkable characters up to the very end.  For example, Kitty and Levin achieve an ideal married life by learning to live for each other, and Dolly, although penniless and attached to a cheating husband, finds consolation in her life by learning to live for her children.  Anna Karenina, however, stands in stark contrast to all the others by living for herself and gradually isolating herself from society until her drug addiction fuels her paranoia and cynicism to a point that she can no longer be satisfied by Vronsky's assurances of his love for her.<br />I enjoyed reading \\"Anna Karenina\\", although I must admit that Dostoevsky's \\"The Brothers Karamazov\\" left a more lasting impression on me.  It was interesting to compare Dostoevsky's uncompromising faith brought about by life-changing spiritual metamorphosis to Tolstoy's own view, which seemed to acknowledge the difficulties of real-life relationships and the distractions that they pose to the expression of one's faith.  Even though Dostoevsky's vision of salvation and of finding God definitely is more awe-inspiring and beautiful, the practical Tolstoy view seems to be more realistic and believable.  I, at least, felt that I could attain such a state of redemption.  From a historical perspective, \\"Anna Karenina\\" also provides a tantalizing glimpse into the thought and culture of 1870's Russia, which any Russophile will enjoy reading.	2003-05-07
US	51972064	R38UP4UCTXFGPA	0679413278	198612908	A Hero of Our Time (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not enough recognition outside of the former USSR	Similar to Pushkin, Mikhail Lermontov has received disappointingly little recognition in the West, despite the fact that he is almost considered as a cultural titan in the former USSR. My wife was born and raised in Ukraine, and she remembers being required to read \\"A Hero of Our Time\\" back in her school days. My wife originally turned me on to Pushkin and she urged me to read Lermontov as well to see what my reaction would be. Given the fact that I now love Pushkin's works, I eagerly went out and bought a copy of Lermontov's \\"A Hero of Our Time\\".<br />As I understand it, one of Lermontov's inspirations in conceiving his hero Pechorin came from a character known as Silvio in a short story by Pushkin called \\"The Shot\\". In \\"The Shot\\", Silvio and another fellow have a duel over some insult that Silvio had made. Silvio, taking his turn, raised his pistol and expected to see his opponent quaking in fear. Instead, the fellow just calmly stood there, while eating cherries from a hat and spitting the pits out toward Silvio. Enraged by his denial of satisfaction in seeing fear in his opponent, Silvio lowered his pistol and announced that he had decided to take his shot at a later time. Years go by, and Silvio finally decided to take his shot on the eve of the other man's wedding day. After seeing the other man stand there in fear and confusion while waiting for the shot to be fired, Silvio lowered his pistol, saying that he was satisfied in seeing this change of attitude and would not take the shot. He then vanished into the night.<br />After reading \\"A Hero of Our Time\\", I definitely agree that Lermontov's Pechorin shares some similarities with Silvio, in addition to the obvious comparisons to Evgeniy Onegin and Don Juan. Pechorin definitely is a bad seed and Lermontov is able to bring this out very well through his prose characterization. All the people that had the misfortune of coming into contact with Pechorin, such as Grushnitsky, Princess Mary, and Bela, became hapless victims in Pechorin's quest to become the master of his own fate.<br />As a few customer reviewers have mentioned already, I found Lermontov's description of the scenery and environment to be a little gratuitous and distracting at times. I did, however, find his chronological ordering of the different short stories to be interesting (albeit a little awkward), as well as his manner of progression in introducing Pechorin to the reader. Pechorin is first introduced to us via a second-hand account, which then progresses to a direct observation of the man, and then which finally ends up with an entry into Pechorin's thoughts and feelings, where we find out what motivates him to act so incomprehensibly when observed from the outside.<br />Although I enjoyed \\"A Hero of Our Time\\" and understand that it played an important role in developing Russian literature during its formative years, I still wouldn't consider it to be one of the top great Russian novels of all time, as some reviewers have proclaimed. I have to admit that Nabokov's less than enthusiastic remarks concerning Lermontov's talents gave me a negative impression in that regard. Nevertheless, an extensive survey of Russian literature would most definitely include \\"A Hero of Our Time\\" and any Russophile would appreciate this book for its historical importance and the insights that it provides into the society of early nineteenth century imperial Russia.	2002-12-20
US	51972064	R1O0LAF6ZDL2G7	0872204847	627065254	Odyssey	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Home sweet home	I became familiar with Stanley Lombardo's work after reading his translation of the Iliad, so when I saw that he also had a translation of the Odyssey available, I eagerly went out and bought a copy. As in his Iliad translation, one encounters the same trademark modern-day colloquial style that, depending on the type of person you are, you will either enjoy or hate. I happen to love it, and I also applaud the choice of cover design for the book, since it suggests not only the nature of the story, but of the translation as well.<br />Whereas Lombardo's Iliad was full of adrenaline and very energetic, I thought that his version of the Odyssey was definitely more calm and introspective, focusing on Odysseus' personal anguish and quest for retribution. It was easier for me to identify with the world of ordinary humans (and their feelings) described in the Odyssey, than with the world of godlike men and mindless warfare and violence described in the wide-ranging Iliad. For this and other reasons, I consider the Odyssey to be the superior work.  As in his previous translation of the Iliad, Lombardo drops the use of dactylic hexameter in the present work and treats the use of similes and epithets in a special manner - all in an effort to minimize the problems encountered in translating from the original Greek to English.<br />It has already been suggested that Lombardo's translation would be an excellent starting point for both the Iliad and the Odyssey, and I wholeheartedly agree. His translations may not be the only versions you'll want to have on your bookshelf, but they would definitely be ones to have in your collection.	2002-12-06
US	51972064	R20ZG9AIS4QB81	0872203522	627065254	Iliad (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	The high-octane stylings of Stanley Lombardo	After attempting to read Butcher & Lang's dry and archaic translation of the Iliad, I switched over to Lombardo and encountered a poem that was forceful, dynamic, and full of adrenaline. In his preface, Lombardo justified his use of modern-day colloquial English in order to bring out the urgency and energy that a poem of war deserves, and I believe that he has done so brilliantly. At times, I thought I was bearing witness to a professional wrestling match, because of the way the Greek and Trojan heroes would taunt each other during combat. The descriptions of combat can be quite graphic at times, but such is the nature of warfare and violence. In addition to his colloquial translation, Lombardo introduced a number of structural changes, such as getting rid of dactylic hexameter and changing the way similes are handled, in order to accomodate the peculiarities of the English language. Although a traditional Homerist might gawk at many of these innovations in style and structure, I think that they go a long way to increasing accessibility and arousing interest in the general readership.	2002-11-06
US	51972064	R1HB3SSI4TLT06	0394604156	569503661	Brothers Karamazov	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The suffering Russian soul	Fyodor Dostoevsky believed that the Russian people were specially marked by God to endure great suffering in order to prepare them to show the truths of Christ's religion to humanity. He did not accept the notions of material progress and scientific rationalism that were coming out of the \\"Enlightened\\" West and felt that such ideas would lead only to spiritual bankruptness and immorality. Dostoevsky articulated these viewpoints and sought to project his vision of what the Russian national identity should be in his masterpiece, \\"The Brothers Karamazov\\".<br />As Dostoevsky himself revealed in the story, the three legitimate sons of Fyodor Pavlovich each represented different aspects of the Russian identity:<br />1. Dmitriy Fyodorovich was the uncontrollable and irrational brother who could commit acts of senseless violence and engage in extreme debauchery, but despite all of that, aspired to goodness and felt remorse at all of the bad things he had done.<br />2. Ivan Fyodorovich was the educated brother who espoused the rationalism and cynicism of the West and who claimed to have renounced God. Despite that, he still had not lost his \\"Russian-ness\\" and he himself did not believe in what he preached and still had troubling doubts about the existence of God.<br />3. Alexei Fyodorovich (Alyosha) was the devout brother who aspired to live in a monastery under the guidance of his spiritual father figure, Father Zossima. Alyosha represented all that was beautiful and holy about the Russian Orthodox faith.<br />Each of these three brothers underwent a crisis in faith that was brought about by the death of their father, either directly or indirectly (as in the case of Alyosha). In each situation, each brother finally came to terms with the suffering that had been placed upon them and accepted responsibility for their actions, or indeed, for all men's actions.<br />I thought Dostoevsky's description of this painful process of spiritual transformation brought on by suffering and anguish was mesmerizing, because I was able to relate to it in some small way. Indeed, considering the responses of many of the other customer reviewers here, I would say that my reaction was not unusual.<br />I would suggest that reading \\"The Brothers Karamazov\\" could actually lead you to reevaluate your life principles and manner of relating to people (at least it did for me). I wil not go so far to say that this book changed my life (as some reviewers here have claimed), but at least it made me think, and for that reason this book is wonderful. It's funny how such a transcendent book as this, which has something to say to everybody, was originally written as propaganda for Russian nationalism.	2002-10-31
US	51972064	R3EM5FBRP8XEIY	0060956550	18408276	Pushkin: A Biography	Books	4	5	5	N	N	D'Anths was bisexual?	Dostoevsky once said that Alexsandr Pushkin was the quintessential Russian man because of his compassion and empathy for mankind, despite all of the humiliation and misery that he suffered from his friends, family, and the rest of high society during the later years of his life.  Although this description of Pushkin may be colored by Dostoevsky's own Russian nationalistic orientation, Pushkin's impact on Russian literature and culture remains undisputed.<br />The first part of Feinstein's biography was a bit slow due to the monotonous presentation of Pushkin's love interests, one after another.  However, a number of erotic poems and epigrams were included that Pushkin wrote during his earlier years which I found particularly amusing for their juvenile and frivolous nature.  Considering the aura of sanctity that was built up around Pushkin's reputation as the figurehead of Russian literature after his death, these lyrics help to paint a picture of who the real man actually was.  The plot finally picks up towards the end of the book with the introduction of Georges d'Anths (the man who fatally shot Pushkin in a duel) and the description of d'Anths' public flirtation with Natalya (Pushkin's wife), only to be followed by his sudden and suspicious marriage to Ekaterina (Natalya's sister).  All of these events made Pushkin the focus of public scrutiny and humiliation, which inevitably led to his fatal encounter with d'Anths.  Feinstein presents a lot of evidence in an attempt to shed light on d'Anths' complicated personality and why things happened as they did.  Although most of this evidence is speculatory, it still makes for interesting reading.<br />I encountered a number of editorial mistakes in this book which were a bit annoying, although they did not overly detract from the continuity of the plot.  Some have already been mentioned by previous customer reviewers, such as the listing of Anna Petrovna Kern (one of Pushkin's premarital lovers) and Anna Petrovnaas two separate people in the index when they are actually one in the same person.  Additionally, Ibrahim Gannibal, Pushkin's legendary Negro great-grandfather who was a general under Peter the Great, was mistakenly identified as his grandfather at various points in the book.  Most aggravating for me, however, was the author's habit of going back and forth in time, such that it became difficult to understand the sequence in which events took place.<br />Overall, I found this book interesting and worth my time reading.  Feinstein presents Pushkin's life story in an engaging and readable style that is well-suited for general readers who have little prior knowledge of the man or his works.  Nevertheless, the book is detailed enough such that we are able to gain a good understanding of Pushkin's personality and the circumstances that motivated him to write each of his major works.	2002-09-03
US	51972064	R1ZDW35T7DFWW1	0674004736	682577634	Russia and the Russians: A History	Books	3	21	24	N	N	A bittersweet read	Regardless of whether you are a scholarly or a casual reader, I would expect that you would find this book difficult to read all the same, albeit perhaps for different reasons. I approached \\"Russia and the Russians\\" as a casual reader, and thus I am writing my review from this perspective, in the hope that it may be of benefit to others.<br />In reading this sweeping history of Russia, I had hoped that the author would have been able to provide an overall \\"big picture\\" of how the Russian nation, and perhaps even the Russian character, developed. To his benefit, Hosking actually did begin his book along these lines by discussing Russia's unique geopolitical situation and some of her unique cultural traits. Although he may have tried to follow up on this by explaining how these various geopolitical and cultural issues affected how the Russian people responded to specific historical events at various points in the text, the lack of organization in Hosking's writing still made it quite difficult for me to appreciate how important the geopolitical, cultural, and economic forces were in shaping the course of Russian history.<br />When I say Hosking's writing lacked organization, I mean that he would at times jump from one discussion to another without any warning or that he would suddenly go back in time to discuss events that happened earlier than what he had previously been focusing on to begin with (again without any warning). Additionally, I thought most of the maps in the book did very little to support what was being discussed in the text (i.e. towns and rivers that were being mentioned in the text were not shown on the maps), which I found to be a nuisance. Although a number of reviewers have criticized this book for its liberal use of Russian words, I think Hosking is justified in this regard since he usually reserves such words to define uniquely Russian concepts.  Although this book does not contain a glossary of Russian vocabulary, I found that the index was just as helpful in finding the page where a Russian word was initially defined.<br />Is \\"Russia and the Russians\\" worth reading? In hindsight, despite my mixed feelings, I still feel that my time reading this book was justified. Although there were some parts that were treacherous to read (primarily due to the dry and abstract presentation of the material), there were other parts that I found absolutely delightful (such as Hosking's discussion of cultural movements during the various historical periods).<br />Bottom line: If you're a serious Russophile, you may be able to overlook the book's shortcomings and still find this an enjoyable read, whereas if you're just looking for entertainment value, you will most likely not find it here.	2002-08-02
US	51972064	R31EEAKNLG9OIY	0300067674	176560451	Ancient Greece: From Prehistoric to Hellenistic Times (Yale Nota Bene)	Books	5	50	52	N	N	A good historical overview of ancient Greece in 221 pages	Thomas Martin has provided the general reader with an excellent historical survey of ancient Greece, which emphasizes not only the political history, but also the cultural and social developments through the ages.<br />The purpose of this work is to give the reader a brief overview, and then to allow him/her to choose what topics to study in more detail.  In this regard, &quot;Ancient Greece&quot; does a brilliant job. <br />In this situation, having a good bibliography is critical, and &quot;Ancient Greece&quot; does not fail.  In my opinion, the annotated biliography at the end of the book is quite extensive and was designed for the general reader in mind.  Thus, given this excellent feature of the book, the author effectively designed this book for a general audience.  Additionally, I thought that the timelines and maps that were provided in the book were outstanding aids in helping to learn the material in the text.  Hooray for Thomas Martin!	2002-07-19
US	51972064	RWRAVJMVPAGBQ	0316739928	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Don't judge a book by it's cover	On the back cover of the 1996 hardcover edition is a B&W photograph of Remarque taken as a young man. Here we see a handsome face with stern eyes, a slight (maybe uncomfortable?) smile, meticulously well-groomed hair, and a buttoned-up shirt with properly donned necktie.<br />I had never read any of Remarque's works before and judging by this photo of him, I'll admit that I thought this book was going to be pretty stuffy and pretentious reading.<br />I stand corrected.<br />I found \\"All Quiet on the Western Front\\" to be a moving portrayal of the effect of war on the human condition and its effect on society. Remarque tells the story through the eyes of the German soldier Paul Baumer, using a very direct and straightforward writing style that was easy to understand. This same writing style that expressed hints of humor and mischief when Paul was with his comrades in the lighter moments of the story just as easily portrayed blackness, destruction, and insanity whenever an artillery bombardment or an infantry attack came. It is remarkable.<br />A prevailing theme in this book is that war is hell and in the process of adapting to it, you lose some of your humanity. There's a psychological defense mechanism involved in not seeing your soldier buddies as anything more than bunkmates (instead of as people with families and aspirations) or the enemy as anything more than monsters trying to kill you.<br />...<br />\\"All Quiet on The Western Front\\" brought attention to social issues that affected WWI-era Germany, such as the \\"lost generation\\". This generation of German youths had been raised up on German patriotism and love of the fatherland, only to find out bitterly that these concepts rang hollow on the battlefields of WWI under artillery barrages and gas attacks. Taken directly out of school to fight the war, they had nothing to return to once the war ended. As Remarque wrote in the book, \\"We have been cut off from activity, from striving, from progress. We believe in suchthings no longer, we believe in the war.\\" Published in 1928, \\"All Quiet on The Western Front\\" was a portent of what was to happen later to Germany and to the rest of Europe in the 20th century.<br />Bottom Line: We all know this is a famous book, but you just have to sit down and read it to find out why.	2002-07-12
US	51972064	R3G9T045CEFFEJ	0345298063	451774652	Peter the Great: His Life and World	Books	5	87	91	N	N	A fascinating book that you won't be able to put down	I thoroughly enjoyed this book that Robert K. Massie wrote about the life and personality of Peter the Great and the challenges he faced in trying to make Russia a major power on the European stage of the 18th century. Although Peter is accurately described as being a driven, uncompromising, and oftentimes ruthless man, this book also presents his softer, warmer side that usually opened up only to his second wife Catherine and to his inner group of trusted friends.<br />In reading the biography of Peter, a great deal of insight is also gained into the society and politics of 17th-18th century Russia and Europe, which in the hands of any other historian might be written in a dry and abstract manner. With Massie, however, he has such an engaging narrative style that the book reads like an action novel at times (such as in describing the Battle of Poltava).<br />Each personality of monarchs that Peter dealt with in Europe and the Middle East is given an ample introduction in \\"Peter the Great\\", which is entertaining reading in its own right. For example, we learn that Augustus II, King of Poland and useless ally of Peter in the Great Northern War, was a sexual philanderer of extreme proportions and that Frederick Wilhelm I, King of Prussia, had his famous collection of giants and suffered from pains that almost drove him to insanity.<br />Of course, a major portion of the book is devoted to the conflict between Peter and his archnemesis Charles XII in the Great Northern War. Massie recounts how Charles' fanaticism and his legendary aura of invincibility eventually brought the Swedish empire to its knees.<br />All in all, this is a book that would appeal to the general interest reader, as well as to the Russophile and to the person interested in European history. If you do get this book, try to get the hardcover edition, because a 915+ page book in paperback starts to fall apart after awhile. And you definitely want to have a nice-looking copy of this book to grace yourbookshelf for a long time.	2002-07-07
US	51972064	R29WYB5N3A83VS	0375405496	138795096	Alexander Pushkin: The Collected Stories	Books	5	68	72	N	N	Thrilling Tales of Adventure and Romance!	This book contains the major prose works of Aleksandr Pushkin, which include \\"The Tales of the Late Ivan Petrovich Belkin\\", \\"Dubrovskii\\", \\"The Queen of Spades\\", \\"The Captain's Daughter\\", and \\"A History of Pugachev\\". Also included in the book are many unfinished stories and fragments, which provide some glimpse into what Pushkin was thinking in between the years that he wrote his masterpieces.<br />Pushkin's stories range from melancholy to humorous to psychological and yet they are all written in a clear, and crisp style that is easy to grasp. Unlike Pushkin's poetry, little is lost in the translation of his prose works from Russian to English and thus we can fully appreciate his genius.<br />Although all of Pushkin's prose works are excellent, but one that continues to remain in my memory for some reason is \\"Egyptian Nights\\". Here the two main characters are Charskii, the nobleman who upholds the aesthetic and personal nature of poetry writing, and the greedy Italian improvisator, who lives by giving public shows and is able to deliver a poem (and quite astonishing at that) on any topic at a moment's notice - but for a fee. Is it possible that Charskii and the Italian both represent different facets of Pushkin's own personality? Anyway, I thought the story ending was erotic and exotic...<br />Even if you are not interested in Russian literature or in Russian culture in general, I would daresay that you would find it hard to put this collection of stories down after you started reading them.<br />The only problem that I had was with the publisher. I wish that they had provided a bookcover, because the paint on the outside of the hardcover kept coming off onto my hands!	2002-06-27
US	51972064	R337Q8I6THZ1UZ	0375406727	124425545	Eugene Onegin and Other Poems (Everyman's Library Pocket Poets Series)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Classic Best Read in Russian	\\"Eugene Onegin\\" was the first major work written in Russian, helping to establish that language's illustrious literary tradition. This novel in verse brought to fame Aleksandr Pushkin, who later turned his talents from poetry on to prose fiction with such titles as \\"The Captain's Daughter\\", \\"The Queen of Spades\\", and \\"Dubrovskii\\".<br />Briefly, the story concerns the encounter between two landed gentry, Eugene, who is disillusioned by his former experiences of St. Petersburg, and Tatyana, a provincial girl who sees the world through her English romance poetry. Obviously, the meeting is an ugly one. The ending is left for the reader to discover, but we all get to see how pitiful Onegin really is.<br />This edition includes the unfinished poem, \\"Onegin's Journey\\", and the classic \\"The Bronze Horseman\\", which is famous for describing the unstoppable and cruel will of Peter the Great in modernizing Russia.<br />The only problem that I had was in the English translation of \\"Eugene Onegin\\". Translating a poem from one lanaguage to another, while still maintaining proper meter and rhyme is no mean feat. Nevertheless, something is lost in the delivery of the poem and unfortunately, we can appreciate only part of Pushkin's genius by reading the English translation. I'd like to learn Russian well enough to be able to read Pushkin's poetry in order to appreciate his work more fully. Well I'm working on it!	2002-06-25
US	51972064	R3F9I1JI1HLD26	0875011039	792569262	Welcome to Divnograd: An Illustrated Workbook for Students of Russian	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Outstanding!	\\"Welcome to Divnograd!\\" was originally designed as a companion to the RussianAlive! language course that Samuel Cioran wrote (and which I am using), but despite that, \\"Welcome to Divnograd!\\" could be used as a standalone product. That being said, the difficulty level of \\"Welcome to Divnograd!\\" is such that students would be expected to already know the Cyrillic alphabet and how to read some basic Russian words.<br />The strengths of this language workbook are that it provides extensive vocabulary backed up by graphical reinforcement and tons of grammar exercises, and it also makes the learning process fun by introducing twenty colorful personalities and by providing a big, fold-out map of the fictional city of Divnograd.<br />Aside from these strengths, Welcome to Divnograd! provides vocabulary and exercises covering the typical Russian apartment and the types of stores that one might encounter in visiting a Russian city. In describing the Russian apartment, each room of the apartment (living room, bedroom, kitchen, bathroom/toilet) is provided its own separate section with a full-page illustration complete with Russian vocabulary words specific for that room. Similarly, for the Russian stores, separate full-page illustrations complemented by relevant Russian vocabulary are also provided. For example, in describing the Russian department store, Welcome to Divnograd! has separate sections giving vocabulary words for womens' clothes, mens' clothes, electric products, and dishware. The vocabulary in each of these sections is reinforced by grammar exercises, although I thought the exercises were a little lacking.<br />The map of Divnograd (a fictional city remember) that is provided is actually quite detailed showing all the street names, the names of squares, and even the name of monuments. On the back of the map is an index showing where all the stores and other notables are located according to grid coordinates. It's fun just to look at the illustrations on the map!	2002-06-20
US	51972064	R2K1TGAKQE3O3D	0684809125	69376240	WAKING THE TEMPESTS: Ordinary Life in the New Russia	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A readable book, but not a keeper	Randolph talks about various aspects of life in Russia just after the fall of Communism, from topics such as the status of women, healthcare, sex, ballet and the fine arts, and criminal justice.  In doing so, she tells the stories of a number of people, some sad and some encouraging, that she met while in Russia in 1992.    In talking about homosexuality, I found it interesting that Randolph stated that \\"virtually every Russian\\" knew that Ivanovo (an industrial city close to Moscow) was a lesbian hangout, of all things.  When I told my wife (who is from Ukraine) this detail, she couldn't stop laughing and thought that this was one of the most outlandish things any American had said about the former Soviet Union.  Additonally, Randolph makes the occasional feminist comment in the book that struck me as being divisive.    All in all, if you're looking for a book that depicts many of the changes brought about in the everyday lives of Russian people after the fall of Communism, then you may find \\"Waking the Tempests\\" interesting.  But the reader should beware that the author comments on the Russian way of life through American eyes, and thus may not represent an accurate portrayal, at least from a Russian's point of view.	2002-06-08
US	51972064	R16FVH0U1BP20D	0844237035	261998382	Russian (Teach Yourself) (English and Russian Edition)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Avoid this book!	I had the misfortune of using this book for an adult education course in beginning Russian that I recently took.  I have since stopped using this book because I felt that the author did a rather sloppy and hurried job of trying to introduce the language.  Because of the rapid pace that the book proceeded with, I felt intimidated by the Russian grammar.<br />Each chapter is crammed full of grammatical points, each of which is only sparingly covered and not at all reinforced into the student's mind.  There are not enough exercises at the end of each chapter, so the student is forced to look for other resources in this regard.<br />The book also contains a number of typographic errors and misplacement of stress marks which only reinforces my view of how poorly this book was designed.<br />If you are looking for an introductory book in the Russian language, then I would definitely suggest that you look elsewhere.  More student-friendly alternatives would include The New Penguin Russian Course and, my favorite, RussianAlive!	2002-06-08
US	51972064	RMZXSTNSRBDKI	0658017969	260229821	The Russian Way, Second Edition: Aspects of Behavior, Attitudes, and Customs of the Russians	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Concise introductory guidebook to Russian culture	Dabars and Vokhmina have created a thorough, yet concise guidebook, which is geared towards those who plan to travel to the former Soviet Union in the very near future. The stated purpose of this book was to make the Russian culture explainable and believable to the non-Russian reader, and I believe that this goal was accomplished.<br />I have the 1995 edition of this book and it does contain a disproportionate amount of typographic errors which I found to be a little irritating at times. The authors credited a lot of people in the preface for \\"proofreading\\" this book - What were they thinking?<br />After reading this book, you will be able to answer the following questions:<BR>- Should you give an even number or an odd number of flowers to your Russian friend?<BR>- How do you write a Russian postal address?<BR>- What do a Russian newlywed couple traditionally do after the wedding ceremony?<BR>- What is the \\"evil eye\\"?<BR>- How many letters are in the Cyrillic alphabet and how are they different from the Roman alphabet?<br />Dabars and Vokhmina effectively cover these topics and more in \\"The Russian Way\\". The book is very lightweight, only 99 pages long, and thus can serve as excellent reading material while traveling. I think that \\"The Russian Way\\" would be an excellent start for any beginning Russophile.	2002-06-05
US	51972064	R3M0GF9573EOF9	0813337925	493962263	Borderland: A Journey through the History of Ukraine	Books	4	60	67	N	N	An excellent introduction into Ukrainian history	In this book, the author effectively presents the major points that have shaped the country that Ukraine is today, and presents it in an engaging style that is not only readable but that also leaves a lasting impression.<br />My wife is originally from Kharkov (in eastern Ukraine), and as a result, I have had the opportunity to visit the country a number of times. I felt that Reid accurately highlighted the cultural and economic differences that exist between the eastern and western parts of Ukraine, and which is a major influence in current Ukrainian politics. In the eastern half (or roughly east of the Dnieper river), Russian is primarily spoken and there is generally little animosity towards Russia. In the western half, however, Ukrainian is the language and speaking Russian can get you killed. Additionally, eastern Ukraine is more heavily industrialized than the agricultural west.<br />Reid also commented on how Ukrainians can switch between using Russian and Ukrainian in different social contexts and how these languages can be combined in everyday talk. My wife once told me that it would be a mark of honor on a person to be able to speak \\"true\\" Ukrainian, as opposed to limited Ukrainian with Russian words to fill in the gaps. Although Ukrainian is now the official language for the whole country, this law was made only recently and it remains to be seen how it will affect people's habits.<br />In the last chapter, Reid provides an interesting discussion of contemporary problems facing independent Ukraine, which primarily involve trying to stand tall in the face of neighboring Russia and make a name for themselves. Although the book was originally published in 1997, her commentary in this regard is still relevant today.<br />I have only two complaints with this book. First, and least important, I felt that her discussion of the events of the Russian Civil War and the end of the First World War was too rapid. This part of the book was simply a blur of dates and locations. Surely such a complicated interaction between Ukrainians, Poles, Austro-Hungarians, Germans, and Bolsheviks would deserve a more clear recount.<br />Secondly, and more importantly, my wife and I felt that Reid made a poor choice in the cover design for this book. A casual observer picking up this book may think that Ukraine is nothing more than a bunch of backward peasants tending to their livestock. More justice would have been done to the country by presenting a majestic scene from Kiev, or perhaps the Crimea or L'viv.<br />Nevertheless, this is an excellent book that concisely and entertainingly provides a good introduction to the history of Ukraine, which is sorely needed.cations. Surely such a complicated interaction between Ukrainians, Poles, Austro-Hungarians, Germans, and Bolsheviks would deserve a more clear recount.<br />Secondly, and more importantly, my wife and I felt that Reid made a poor choice in the cover design for this book. A casual observer picking up this book may think that Ukraine is nothing more than a bunch of backward peasants tending to their livestock. More justice would have been done to the country by presenting a majestic scene from Kiev, or perhaps the Crimea or L'viv.<br />Nevertheless, this is an excellent book that concisely and entertainingly provides a good introduction to the history of Ukraine, which is sorely needed.	2002-06-04
