US	51988066	R1FHNZYBN5N71T	0385504284	202497183	The Forgotten Man: A Novel (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Back and unforgettable	Oh, man, I waited FOREVER for this book, and was it ever worth it.<br /><br />At 4:00 A.M. on a muggy morning, Elvis Cole gets a call that will have a profound impact on his life.  There's a dead man in an L.A. alley.  This is nothing unusual; this is Elvis Cole we're talking about, the World's Greatest Detective.  Before taking his dying breath, however, the dead man told a police officer that the World's Greatest is his long-lost son.<br /><br />Working in unorthodox tandem with his enigmatic partner, Joe Pike, Elvis sets out to unravel the corpse's tangled identity, a quest that could put to rest so many questions about his own identity.<br /><br />Crais just gets better every time out and Elvis Cole's legendary reputation grows more legendary with each new tale.<br /><br />This book is hot and, trust me, the twist at the end is killer.  And now, alas, the wait is on for the NEXT Elvis Cole fix.	2005-04-14
US	51988066	R3EL95PQ9YIGUY	0060083263	624926035	Sleeping Beauty (Margolin, Phillip)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	You won't sleep 'til you can put this down	When Ashley Spencer was 17 years old, her life was shattered by a brutal home invasion which resulted in the deaths of her father and her best friend and her own narrow escape.  This novel follows Ashley over the next five harrowing years as her mother is murdered and the dean of her school beaten into a years-long coma.  The escape of the suspect, a well-known writer of all things, and the trauma of all these events leads Ashley to flee the country and change her identity.<br /><br />Finally, however, judgment day has arrived and the man responsible for the carnage is sentenced to death.  So, what's bugging Ashley?  Is it possible that justice has been miscarried and the convicted man is the wrong man?<br /><br />This is one rip-roaring ride of a whodunit.  It kept me up late 'til I reached the last tantalizing page.  In a nutshell, I thought it rocked.	2005-04-14
US	51988066	RLRVOCJDS7ROI	1591291496	343693161	Follow Your Heart	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Charming!	Sara Martin was orphaned at the age of 8 and lovingly raised thereafter by her Aunt Reni.  Shocked to her core by Reni's sudden death shortly after her college graduation, Sara has yet another, potentially more monumental shock to come.  A letter in Reni's safety deposit box addressed to Sara reveals the devastating news that she was adopted as an infant.<br /><br />With a copy of her original birth certificate her only clue to her origins, Sara hires charismatic private investigator Dennis Miller to search for her birth parents.<br /><br />As the novel unfolds, Sara eventually meets her entire birth family, including her taciturn and enigmatic father and his young son.<br /><br />This is a charming, upbeat story about what COULD happen in these types of searches and the fantastic results Sara achieves, results which will enrich her life even as she herself breathes fresh new life into the lives of those she meets.<br /><br />Lori Paris's characters, including the 4-legged ones, are warm and 3-dimensional, and I guarantee you will fall in love with them as you read this well crafted, uplifting story.	2004-11-28
US	51988066	R3F5CRH28SRLWX	0786712929	251558876	Partners: A Novel of Crime (Otto Penzler Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Anatomy of a serial killer	This novel follows the evolution of a serial killer.  The first murder is almost happenstance.  The killer, however, quickly realizes that he has a taste for blood and sets out to refine his methodology.  It is horrifying to watch the handsome Finito Rakowski hone his &quot;skills&quot; and choose his victims.<br />At the same time, police partners Belinda Moore and Pudge Pedersson must refine their investigatory skills and flout the rules to catch this guy before he claims another victim.<br />While we know &quot;who&quot; done it, the suspense level is terrific as the beleaguered cops try to run him to ground.  It's a real page-turner and a &quot;must read&quot; for mystery/suspense aficionados.	2004-05-07
US	51988066	R23EP8XY3BOYSG	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Sometimes they ARE out to get you	Adam Cassidy makes a profound error in judgment at work at Wyatt Telecom which starts the ball rolling toward corporate espionage, treachery, and outright paranoia.  When made a proposition he can't refuse by Wyatt Telecom's CEO, Adam feels he has no choice but to doctor his resume and apply as directed for a job at the competition, Trion Systems.  Especially since Nick Wyatt has promised him a spectacular felony prosecution and a certain prison sentence if he doesn't do it.<br />Fast forward, and we find Adam firmly ensconced at Trion and wracking his brain to get the goods on AURORA, Trion's top secret project that Nick Wyatt would kill to get.  And Adam is pretty sure Nick will kill HIM if he doesn't deliver AURORA.  Adam makes friends at Trion, including the company's eccentric founder and, of course, there's a girl, but NObody is who they seem to be as the ingenius plotting and supercharged level of suspense race toward the denouement.<br />When I hear the words \\"corporate intrigue\\", \\"big business\\", or \\"industrial espionage\\", I'm usually thinking, \\"Unh-uh, I'm not reading that\\", but let me tell you, I LOVED this book!  It has every element I look for in a thriller, constructed with finesse and glued with panache.  This one started 2004 out with a bang.	2004-01-17
US	51988066	R2EAUYBSFT2PQN	0743245423	732518745	Last Car to Elysian Fields: A Dave Robicheaux Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Bayou Blues	At the heart of this newest hotbed of South Louisiana intrigue is the disappearance many years ago of up and coming blues artist, Junior Crudup.  Detective Dave Robicheaux is convinced that the man was murdered, and believes he knows who did it.  The question is, can he prove it after all this time?<br />Meanwhile, Dave has the beating of Father Jimmie Dolan to investigate, as well as a fatal car crash with lingering tragic consequences.  At the same time, Dave is battling his familiar litany of inner demons.<br />With a cast of twisted and flamboyant characters set against the dark and seamy tapestry that is New Orleans and its environs, this is quintessential Burke.  It could be said that there are perhaps too many sub-plots at work here, but this, too, is vintage Burke and, believe me, it works.	2003-10-21
US	51988066	RWAHVGSWO13HQ	0892967811	256182121	Cyanide Wells	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Secrets and Lies	Fourteen years ago, Matt Lindstrom's wife, Gwen, disappeared without a trace.  As a result of the umbrella of suspicion that descended upon him from both police and the public at large, Matt relocated to Brisish Columbia and started a new life.<br />And then one day he received an anonymous call informing him that Gwen was very much alive and living in a town called Cyanide Wells, California.<br />Matt is, of course, compelled to travel to Cyanide Wells to see for himself.  No sooner, however, than he discovers her new identity as Ardis Coleman, Pulitzer Prize winning newspaper reporter with a young daughter and a lesbian lover, she disappears again under ominous circumstances.  Matt, afraid of becoming a suspect again, forms an unlikely alliance with Carly McGuire, newspaper publisher and Gwen/Ardis's lover, and together they launch a search for the missing mother and child.  Their quest uncovers a masterful web of secrets, lies, and deceit perpetrated by Ardis, not the least of which is her connection to the sensational unsolved murder in Cyanide Wells whose coverage won her paper the Pulitzer.<br />This is a delightfully layered and intricately plotted novel of suspense and I wasn't real sure where the author was headed 'til we got there.	2003-10-21
US	51988066	R1AARWX55HTA69	0743456386	651363314	The White Road	Books	5	30	31	N	N	A Total Stunner	Charlie \\"Bird\\" Parker has settled down in rural Maine with his new love, Rachel, and is awaiting the birth of their child when he gets a call from an old friend, Elliot Norton.  Elliot is a lawyer in Charleston, SC, who is handling a powder-keg of a case -- a young black man accused of the rape/murder of the daughter of a rich and powerful white family.  When Elliot all but grovels as he begs Charlie to come to SC and do some investigation for him, Charlie can't say no.<br />And so begins Charlie's odyssey on the long and twisted White Road.  Connolly writes of the dank Congaree Swamp and other Low Country environs as though he were born in the languid South rather than Ireland, and every paragraph he writes flows like dark and haunted poetry.  For every step forward Charlie takes in seeking information to help Elliot's client's case, forces and villains from his past converge to drive him backwards and to kill him if they can.  (*Note:  do read \\"The Killing Kind\\" first to understand who Faulkner, Pudd, et al., are.)  And then there is the hooded Lady in White, who might or might not be real as she wanders the shimmering White Road where the past meets present and future and where old wrongs are righted.<br />This stunning novel is absolutely mesmerizing as it races forward to a shattering denouement.  It will leave you breathless, but don't read it at home alone late at night.	2003-03-18
US	51988066	R20VOIFCAFQ7RD	0385504268	354796806	The Last Detective (Elvis Cole Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Buckle your seatbelt...	I waited what seemed like an eternity for the release of this book and, like all truly great things, it was worth the wait.<br />Lucy Chenier, you may recall, has moved from LA to L.A. to be with Elvis Cole, \\"the world's greatest detective\\", and then one fine afternoon while Lucy is away and Elvis and Ben, Lucy's 10-year-old son, are getting along famously, Ben vanishes.  And Elvis soon falls into a maelstrom of evil as he searches for the missing boy with the aid of the singular Joe Pike and LAPD detective Carol Starkey (who you may remember from \\"Demolition Angel\\").<br />The atmosphere is spine-tingling and the suspense is all but unbearable as Elvis and Joe put the pieces together to figure out who has Ben and why.  The level of violence may even be kicked up a notch from Elvis's previous outings, and that is saying something.  A complete tour de force would be an apt description of this novel.  And then some.  My only complaint is that it came, I gobbled it up, and now I have to wait a whole dang year for another Elvis fix.<br />For my money, Robert Crais is the undisputed king of the hard-boiled detective genre.  Long live the king!	2003-03-18
US	51988066	R2L62DFZL44KOX	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Rocky Road	I've heard a lot of people refer to Grisham's latest as \\"formulaic\\" or \\"not good story telling.\\"  I must respectfully disagree, as I found it an immensely satisfying piece of story telling.  What it is, is a good old-fashioned morality play dressed up in modern raiment.<br />We meet young Clay Carter when he is an over-worked and quickly burning out Public Defender, poor and going nowhere fast.  Enter a mysterious figure named Max Pace who gives Clay confidential information not only relevant to Tequila Watson's murder case but guaranteed to make Clay a lot of money in the private sector.  The information has to do with a giant drug company and a bad drug and, from there, the race is on to sign up injured clients and rake in the dollars.  Young Clay takes the money and runs, sacrificing Tequila Watson to the system.  Once he resigns from the Public Defender's Office, he opens his own lavish firm and hires a crack staff at fantastic salaries.  And why not, since the money seems to be coming from bottomless coffers?<br />But remember, what goes up must come down, and Clay's downward spiral is a painful spectacle.  Still, Clay's redemption is a beautiful thing to see.  There is a life lesson here for us all, not just for young lawyers.	2003-03-17
US	51988066	RXB2W6CNEG2HY	0399149368	309604858	Prince of Lost Places	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Amazing grace	Martha is a young, sophisticated mother who runs away with her 6-year-old son, Duncan, after the death of a neighborhood child.  She leaves her husband, David, whom she loves, to make a safer life for Duncan in a wilderness cave on the Rio Grande.  An unlikely premise, you say?  I thought so, too, but by the time David's detective catches up with her, I assure you that the story had not only grown on me but held me in complete thrall.  The writing is beautiful and haunting, and the ending literally shocked me speechless.  Which is, after all, a hallmark of great writing.	2003-03-17
US	51988066	R25YLE448MQ84V	0316153915	77432495	Chasing the Dime	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hot!	Henry Pierce is trying to get his life back into some semblance of order after a breakup with his girlfriend.  At the same time, he's trying to keep his technology business viable and lead it into a lucrative future.<br />As soon as he gets the phone hooked up in his new apartment, however, his life suddenly gets more complicated.  Henry keeps getting phone calls meant for a woman named Lilly who, it seems, had the number before him.  And \\"seems\\" is a salient term here, because nothing is what it seems.<br />Henry's investigation into the identity of the mysterious Lilly reveals that she is a call girl available through a Web site escort service.  For his efforts, he is rewarded by becoming the chief suspect in a murder investigation.  With no understanding of what he has walked into, Henry's immediate goal is to avoid arrest while at the same time trying to track down the elusive Lilly, penetrate the shadowy underworld she inhabits, and escape becoming a murder victim himself.<br />Connelly's plotting is complicated and intelligent, with a level of suspense that is spine-tingling.  This novel is so hot it nearly combusts in your hands.	2002-12-15
US	51988066	R16KM88XBGM7ZJ	1575668270	340494315	Cold Justice	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Exquisite!	As this novel of exquisite suspense begins, San Francisco lawyer Kali O'Brien has been stood up for dinner by her friend Anne.  And then she gets the shocking news that Anne has been murdered in an apparent copycat killing.  Anne's murder is eerily similar to the crimes for which the so-called Bayside Strangler, Dwayne Davis, has recently been executed.  Both Anne and Kali helped prosecute Davis 8 years earlier.  When a second, and then a third victim, turns up in short order, the heat is on and a team is put together to investigate the new murders and ensure that an innocent man was not executed. The plot is wickedly clever and the tension never lets up as Kali takes a leading role in the investigation and becomes a target for this diabolical killer.<br />I have only recently discovered Ms. Jacobs's Kali O'Brien series, and I am thoroughly hooked.  She now definitely tops my list of favorites.	2002-09-21
US	51988066	R2SUG83817NXEE	0765300591	621045996	Louisiana Bigshot: A Talba Wallis Novel	Books	5	36	36	N	N	The Baroness outdoes herself	When New Orleans PI Talba Wallis does a pre-marital background check on her friend Babalu Maya's fiance, things quickly go from bad to worse.  The fiance is a cad, but Babalu seems to have other, darker problems on her mind.  Yet, when Babalu turns up dead, it is none other than the fiance who believes she was murdered and hires Talba to look into it.<br />Talba immediately runs into a roadblock when she finds that Babalu Maya doesn't seem to exist.  Following a trail which eventually leads to Clayton, Louisiana, Talba keeps digging.  People in Clayton aren't talking, however.  Refusing to give up, Talba and her boss, Eddie Valentino, both put their lives on the line to learn the murky secrets the town is hiding.<br />Talba Wallis's new adventures far surpass her last one.  I hope Julie Smith hasn't killed off her Skip Langdon series but, if such is the case, Talba is a more than worthy successor.  The atmosphere in this fast-paced tale is earthy and real.  The dialogue is crisp, the writing is superior, and the plot is strong.  If you haven't yet discovered the world of Talba Wallis, a/k/a the Baroness Pontalba, treat yourself to this book.  It's definitely a winner.	2002-09-16
US	51988066	RN3L9WQS4CCF7	0399148817	524201117	Sleep No More	Books	5	2	4	N	N	An Elegantly Chilling Ghost Story	John Waters is a happily married man with a young daughter he adores.  His business is doing well and he and his wife, Lily, have worked hard to turn their antebellum home in Natchez, Mississippi, into a showplace.  John thinks little these days about his old college love affair with Mallory Candler, tragically dead now for over 10 years.  And then one day he meets Eve Sumner.  In love with his wife, John appreciates Eve's beauty and air of sensuality, but is ready to let it go at that.  Until Eve turns and mouths a phrase to him that Mallory used to say.<br />Curious, one meeting leads to another and then one thing leads to another until John is in over his head.  Because, you see, Eve claims that she IS, by a circuitous route, Mallory.  And it just gets curiouser and curiouser from there.<br />Two weeks into their torrid affair, Eve is found murdered, like Mallory.  Unlike in Mallory's case, however, John knows that he will be the prime suspect unless he can find out what's going on before he is arrested.  The rest of the story is one heck of a wild ride all the way to the stunning conclusion.  Either John is on the receiving end of the gaslighting to end all gaslightings, or he is the victim of one of the most chilling hauntings ever.  For afficinados of both conventional thrillers and the occult, I highly recommend Greg Iles's latest finely wrought offering.  You may lose some sleep, but you won't be disappointed.	2002-07-28
US	51988066	R3VNO7V0VFBZEA	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Of Criminals and Crullers	This story starts when sassy Jersey bounty hunter Stephanie Plum is asked by a neighbor to find her missing granddaughter, Evelyn, and her small daughter.  Missing persons is not strictly Stephanie's forte, but she figures what the heck, she'll give it a go.  And the usual Evanovich tour de force of mayhem, shadowy miscreants, binge-eating, attacking critters, and dead cars takes off from there.  The action is great, the plot is strong, and the laughs are divine.  Oh, and the romance!  The love triangle with Stephanie, Morelli, and Ranger becomes even more tangled.  Without giving anything away, let me just say that those of you with Ranger fantasies, get ready to kick 'em up a notch.<br />Anyone who hasn't yet discovered the pleasure of the Stephanie Plum series, I highly recommend that you get thee to the bookseller and buy them all.  They are absolutely delightful.	2002-06-26
US	51988066	RSLD8Y0SU6WM5	0553583719	438699316	Cold Heart	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Left me breathless	I received a reviewer's copy of this novel, which can sometimes be problematic.  Let me just say this:  it went for the jugular and grabbed my attention in the first pages, and never let go.  I read it fast, and finished with a big &quot;Whoa!&quot;<br />Micky Ascherfeld was a Houston police officer with an already tragic past when she and her partner endured a brutal attack which left her partner/lover dead.  Fast forward 4 years, and Micky has relocated to Alaska to be near a dear friend, a burned out psychologist.  The slow and simple pace of life in the tiny, pristine hamlet of McRay has been therapeutic and Micky has found fulfillment in creating her unique stained glass pieces.<br />And then one morning, a townsman named Eldred snaps and goes on a homicidal spree, bent on killing everyone in town.  Cut off from her gun and all communications or means of transportation, Micky is forced to draw upon her police training and every grain of inner strength she ever possessed to stay one step ahead of Eldred and try to stay alive.  There is a teenage girl named Dawn whom Eldred has missed and, once they cross paths, Micky is determined to protect Dawn at all costs.  The rest of the book is devoted to the unfolding events of that one day and the diabolical game of cat and mouse with not only Eldred but with a wounded grizzly bear.  Eldred's emotionless, passionless killing-machine persona makes him one of the most terrifying characters in recent fiction.  While the nature of the story is of necessity violent, the strong writing and crisp dialogue keep it from being gratuitously so.  The plot is original and the pace heartstopping, the penultimate ending along the lines of what the reader has been hoping for, the final ending a complete and total shocker.<br />There is an excerpt from Chandler McGrew's next novel in the back of the book, with the promise of &quot;coming soon.&quot;  All I can say is, not soon enough!	2002-06-16
US	51988066	R2EZN9DT0O1247	0060185147	737127896	Courting Trouble	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Delicious!	Young attorney Anne Murphy was poised for a working 4th of July weekend at the Jersey shore when her world was rocked by a front-page newspaper story about the brutal murder of Philadelphia lawyer ... Anne Murphy!  Her thoughts immediately go to the hapless young woman she left house-sitting her place and her cat, and then to the supposedly incarcerated man from her past who tried to kill her once.  Even though she's slated to begin a career-making trial, Anne decides she'd better \\"stay dead\\" 'til she can figure out what's going on.  With some covert help from her co-workers at the all-woman Bennie Rosato law firm, she sets out to investigate who wanted her dead, why, and where that person is.  And it's a wild ride from there.  Lisa Scottoline's irrepressible humor emerges here and there to inspire giggles in the midst of suspense, and it all works very well.  Having found her last couple of novels a bit stuffy, I have to respectfully disagree with fellow reviewers who found this one too light.  I thought it struck just the right balance.  In fact, I gobbled it up in one day and loved every word of it.	2002-06-09
US	51988066	R3GEKIH8HJEMJM	038533558X	734473825	Gone For Good	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Riveting Suspense	Eleven years ago, Will Klein's older brother, Ken, disappeared after the rape and murder of a neighborhood girl, Julie, whom Will had once loved.  The police closed the case, sure Ken had done it and gone on the run.  In the Klein family, however, they were sure he was both innocent and dead.  Then, after the death of his mother, Will finds among her effects a 2-year-old photograph of Ken.  Shortly afterwards, Will's girlfriend, Sheila Rogers, disappears suddenly and without a trace.  After Sheila's body is found on a Nebraska roadside, Will travels from New York to attend the funeral in her Midwest home town.  He is shocked to the core when he looks into the casket and realizes he has never seen this woman in his life.  The FBI says her fingerprints belong to Sheila Rogers, so who and where is the Sheila Rogers Will was in love with?<br />There are more twists and turns in this story than you can shake a stick at as it races along at warp speed.  Just when you think you've figured something out, the author throws another curve ball at you, all the way to the final scene.  I tried to read it slowly, and savor it, and make it last, but it was impossible.  This one is a true page-turner.	2002-06-09
US	51988066	RVKLJFN67055H	089296748X	289602035	Open and Shut	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Terrific!	It's hard to believe this is David Rosenfelt's first novel, but that's what the book jacket says.<br />New Jersey attorney Andy Carpenter's biggest problems are fretting over whether to work things out with his estranged wife or move forward with pretty PI Laurie Collins.  He's good in court, wins most of his cases, and is popular with judges and prosecutors alike.  He lives with a Golden Retriever named Tara in a house he likes a lot, and life is pretty darn good.<br />And then Andy's father, Nelson, a retired prosecutor, asks him to take on the appeal of Willie Miller, on death row for a murder Nelson himself prosecuted.  Before Andy can ask his father what's going on, Nelson dies.  Finding himself heir to a mysterious fortune and a troubling photograph, Andy plods ahead with his new client's appeal.  And that's when the threats start.  Andy himself had always believed Willie Miller was guilty, so who could feel so threatened by a re-trial?<br />As the investigation of the murder Willie was convicted of, that of young newspaper reporter Denise McGregor, progresses, evidence of an old and ugly murder gradually comes to light.  What are the connections, and what could Willie Miller have had to do with it?  More intriguing, what about the photo of Nelson Carpenter and his powerful friends?  And where did Nelson Carpenter get all that money which he never touched?  This novel is artfully constructed and superbly plotted and, if this is a first novel, I hope it's only the first of many to come.  This author is uncommonly talented and this is a spectacular debut.	2002-06-09
US	51988066	R2033WNWE20HS7	0743204840	843105206	Jolie Blon's Bounce: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Darkly and mysteriously wonderful	When teenager Amanda Boudreau is murdered in New Iberia, Louisiana, the evidence points to Tee Bobby Hulin, a gifted musician but a crackhead and general ne'er-do-well.  Detective Dave Robicheaux is not convinced, though.  Then there is another murder, this time of the drug-addicted daughter of a local Mafia figure, and Tee Bobby is again implicated.  Robicheaux still doubts the evidence and continues to investigate when he crosses paths with the mysterious and malevolent Legion Guidry, an elderly former plantation overseer.  Robicheaux questions his own sanity when his instincts tell him that Legion is pure evil in human form.<br />Meanwhile, Robicheaux's sidekick, Clete Purcell, is having woman troubles, and competition in the person of cracker ex-con Bible salesman Marvin Oates.  Even Robicheaux's own attorney, Perry LaSalle, is behaving strangely in the wake of the two murders.  They all have secrets and present different faces to different people, and it's up to Robicheaux to navigate the labyrinthe, pick out the necessary pieces, and put it all together.<br />And who better than James Lee Burke to throw it all out there, knead it and meld it with his dark and menacing poetry, and then pull it all together with brilliant finesse.  This may be Dave Robicheaux's darkest voyage yet but, boy, what a ride.  The atmosphere, rife with human suffering and the nature of evil, is very intense and roiling with preternatural undercurrents, with an ending that is both shocking and just.	2002-06-09
US	51988066	R3BWYU0JZGFN8C	0380791382	204019133	Out of Time: A Casey Jones Mystery (Casey Jones Mysteries)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Smart and Sassy	Since recently discovering this series, I have systematically worked my way through almost all of them, and love every single word of them.<br />Casey Jones is a big gal, which comes in handy in her line of work.  Casey's a Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina, PI -- unlicensed thanks to a long-ago brush with the law.  In this story, Casey is hired by the no-nonsense matriarch of a no-nonsense family to try and save her granddaughter, Gail Honeycutt Taylor, from her impending date with the executioner.  Gail is on Death Row for the murder of her police officer husband, and it had never occurred to Casey before to question her guilt.  The more she digs into the case, however, the more she becomes convinced that Gail didn't do it.  It doesn't help matters that Gail is almost suicidally apathetic and won't lift a finger to help herself.  Casey's unorthodox recources and colorful associates make for a devilishly delicious story as she battles cops and bad guys -- and sometimes can't tell the difference -- while Gail's time is rapidly running out.<br />Casey Jones is a true-blue Southern belle, as is her creator, Katy Munger.  She can come join my group of same any time!  This book with its quick wit, sparkling dialogue, and stylish plot is not to be missed.  In truth, the whole series is divine and I am just dying for the next one.	2002-03-16
US	51988066	R36X2A0VPOOKLA	078670943X	731165523	Little Girl Blue: A Novel of Crime	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Full-Tilt Boogie	Lt. Julia Brennan is a hardened NYPD homicide detective who's seen it all when she catches the case of a small, naked girl found dead in Central Park.  The sight of the tiny corpse, blue with cold, affects Julia like no other has, and she vows to find the killer, no matter what.<br />Working with Peter Foley, an undercover cop with the Sex Crimes Unit, Julia is appalled at the breadth and depth of perversity she discovers is flourishing in her city.  Peter not only poses as a pedophile, but maintains a Web site designed to attract these bottom-feeders.  Julia finds herself attracted to Peter, but wonders how wallowing in the dark sewers of depravity as he does could fail to affect him in ways she doesn't want to contemplate.  As the investigation leads to foreign adoption agencies selling children into slavery, many of the potential suspects turn up dead.  And Peter knew who and where each of them was.  Can Julia trust him?<br />This is a chilling novel dealing intelligently with an ugly subject, tautly written with crisp dialogue and dazzling continuity flowing along at full-tilt boogie speed, absolutely compelling reading.  I haven't figured out who David Cray is a pseudonym for, though I have a couple of guesses, but what a master of the crime novel.	2001-12-29
US	51988066	R2ZQK9TSTT23FS	0553801376	598224178	One Door Away from Heaven	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Purely enchanting	This is, for my money, THE most magical, THE most beautiful of Koontz's novels to date, the jewel in the crown of his body of work.<br />Michelina &quot;Micky&quot; Bellsong is a young woman still looking for herself after a stint in prison on a bum rap.  Moving into a California trailer park with her eccentric but loveable Aunt Geneva, who hasn't been right since she was shot in the head 18 years ago, Micky is just looking for work, sobriety, and stability.  And then one day a new family moves into the trailer next door.<br />Micky and Aunt Geneva fall instantly in love with the child of the new neighbors, a precocious 9-year-old with birth defects named Leilani Klonk.  At dinner one night, the mature-beyond-her-years Leilani confides to her new friends that her UFO-chasing step-father, who she calls Dr. Doom, kills disabled people for fun while her mother is so strung out on drugs and booze that she's hanging on to sanity by only a hair.  Leilani matter of factly states that she had an older brother, also born deformed, who was &quot;taken to the stars&quot; by Dr. Doom to be healed by aliens, though she's pretty sure he was actually taken into the woods and killed.  And Dr. Doom has promised Leilani a healing before her 10th birthday, which is rapidly approaching.  When the family suddenly disappears, Micky is terrified for the girl and takes off in search of her.<br />At the same time, a 10-year-old boy is on the run from men who have killed his mother.  He has no one to comfort him but a newly homeless black and white dog he calls Old Yeller.  The boy, calling himself Curtis Hammond, is so special and so resourceful that we know right away there's something so unique about him that he just might be X-Files material.<br />In a story only Dean Koontz could weave, the paths of all these wonderful characters are destined to converge and ignite to make magic.  While the suspense mounts to unbearable levels and you chew your nails, the darling Old Yeller will at the same time steal your heart.  While this is a thriller in all respects, it is also heartwarming with its message of hope and optimism ... and a little peek into the dreams of dogs.  Read it for yourself to discover the joy of what that means!same time steal your heart.  While this is a thriller in all respects, it is also heartwarming with its message of hope and optimism ... and a little peek into the dreams of dogs.  Read it for yourself to discover the joy of what that means!	2001-12-28
US	51988066	R2S2EYDQMWG7MB	0515131679	175740429	The Gingerbread Man	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Walk on the Dark Side	Vince O'Mally is a detective with the Syracuse police who promises the mother of two missing children that he will find them alive and bring them home.  He is devastated when, instead, he finds their savaged bodies in an abandoned house.  Hidden under a floorboard in the old house is a copy of a childrens' book, The Gingerbread Man, checked out of an upstate library nearly 20 years ago.<br />Tracking down the book leads O'Mally to the small town of Dilmun and Holly Newman, whose little sister was abducted while carrying the same book and never seen again.  Convinced that the answer lies in Dilmun, O'Mally rents a cabin and digs in his heels to hunt down a child killer.  There are more than enough suspects to go around, but Holly can provide little help; she's repressed most of her memories of her sister's abduction.  But when a local child goes missing at a Halloween party thrown by a reclusive actor and his very strange niece, Holly finds a core of strength she never knew she had and races with O'Mally against time to find the little girl before it is too late.<br />The suspense, the romantic element, and the surprise ending make this a great novel to kick back with on a lazy afternoon.	2001-12-18
US	51988066	R17E1VS94V2X7X	006019832X	82560035	Hope to Die (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Murder most foul	PI without a license Matthew Scudder may be aging, but he's still got what it takes.  When society couple Byrne and Susan Hollander are brutally murdered in what appears to be a home invasion, it isn't long before their niece, Lia, puts a bug in Scudder's ear about the Hollanders' daughter, Kristin.  Kristin stands to inherit a small fortune in cash and property.  But then, there's a bequest in the will for Lia, too.  Did one of the girls set up the Hollanders?  Scratch Lia from the suspect list when she, too, ends up dead.  But what about Kristin?  Scudder likes her, and can't find any cracks in her story.  So what about her friends and associates?  The answer is about as cold-blooded and chilling as it gets.  I would have liked to see the diabolical plot tied up a little more neatly in the end, but this is a heck of a good murder mystery, just perfect for a rainy Winter evening.  Block's writing is as crisp and meaty as ever, and I hope Matthew Scudder will still be entertaining us when he's 82.	2001-12-18
US	51988066	R2C0ZX5G2IIJKC	0786013222	895942240	The Other Extreme	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Eerie suspense	Defense attorney Kit Parrish has her hands full with her new case -- a young doctor charged with the murder on Tango Key, Florida, of his lover, actress Diane Jackson.  As she goes about her job of searching for evidence and planning a defense, Kit's troubles are compounded by bizarre episodes of nightmares and sleepwalking experienced by her young son, Ryan.  Worse, he's hearing a voice which he calls The Other, causing Kit to fear he needs either a psychiatrist or a neurosurgeon.  Thank goodness for the faithful retriever who looks out for him.  What a great dog!<br />Although we know from the first chapter who the real killer is, the suspense mounts with each successive chapter as the killer covers his tracks and manipulates evidence, fully expecting the doctor to be convicted.  And if Kit does her job too well, or troublesome witnesses turn up, why, he is not above killing again.<br />The sub-plot concerning the 10-year-old disappearance of Kit's brother is as compelling as the murder case, and while the reader just knows there has to be a connection, the author deftly keeps you guessing until the penultimate moment.  This murder mystery/legal thriller is shrouded in supernatural overtones which in less skillful hands might have been over the top, but it works here to create a walloping good tale.	2001-12-18
US	51988066	R3KC3AD51X6NDT	0525946012	863959984	Suspicion of Vengeance	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Possibly Parker's Best	Kenny Ray Clark is on Florida's death row for the 12-year-old murder of a young housewife.  At the behest of his grandmother, known since childhood by Miami attorney Gail Connor, Gail reluctantly takes on his appeal case.  Knowing that the case is beyond her expertise and that time is rapidly running out, Gail nonetheless dives into reinvestigating the murder and the desperate search for new evidence.  Although Gail's fiance, Anthony Quintana, cautioned her against taking the case and getting involved, he, too, gradually comes to accept that Kenny Ray was wrongfully convicted.  Putting themselves in harm's way to find the one witness or scrap of evidence that could get Kenny Ray a new trial, time is running out and somebody means to stop them at any cost.<br />The pace of this novel is page-flipping intense as you find yourself rooting for Kenny Ray every step of the way.  Will Gail be able to save him from execution?  You know the answer to that -- you have to read the book!  And you will love it.  This is to my mind THE best Barbara Parker to date.	2001-11-04
US	51988066	R1H2MMS6VF7HPD	0765300583	559329883	Louisiana Hotshot: A Talba Wallis Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Chercher la femme	Talba Wallis is a computer whiz kid who is a sometimes private eye by day.  At night, however, she is magically transformed into the exotic poetess The Baroness Pontalba, earthy diva of New Orleans cafe society.<br />Soon after veteran private investigator Eddie Valentino takes Talba on as a new employee, a new case falls into their laps.  A smooth operator has seduced a young girl and her executive mama is fit to be tied.  As Eddie and Talba dig deeper into the case, they learn that not only are there more victims but some of them have disappeared without a trace.  As the danger level soars into the red zone, Talba uses all of her wits and talents to stay alive and sends in her Baroness Pontalba persona to get close to the bad guys.<br />The ambience is tres noir, the pace is quicksilver, and the suspense is a total rush.  I have found myself a new &quot;must read&quot; author in Julie Smith (who has a WAY cool Web site, by the way) and am now happily wading through her entire body of work.	2001-11-04
US	51988066	R1SKTNPUSAXD2W	039914739X	683788691	Isle of Dogs	Books	4	5	11	N	N	Ribald romp	When the doddering governor of Virginia declares war on speeders, a miscommunication sends state workers to paint speed traps on the streets of tiny, eccentric Tangier Island in the Chesapeake Bay, where most of the residents travel by golf cart.  Tangier is an insular world unto itself and does not take kindly to interference from the outside world.  Tangier's response to the governor's newfangled traffic crackdown is to declare war on the Commonwealth of Virginia.  The first prisoner of war is the crooked dentist from the Mainland who has been &quot;taking care of&quot; the Islanders' teeth for years.<br />Enter Judy Hammer, head of the Virginia State Police, and her right-hand man, Andy Brazil, a/k/a TrooperTruth.com, almost at wits' end trying to figure out who has bamboozled whom and where the traitor in the governor's mansion is and striving to keep them all from killing each other.<br />To understand the peculiar, anachronistic English still spoken today by Tangier Islanders, it helps to have been there.  But even if you aren't familiar with Tangier, you'll feel like you've been there after soaking up Ms. Cornwell's deft descriptions which capture the cadence and atmosphere of the Island.<br />The reader will howl with laughter at the pratfalls of the bumbling governor and his bizarre family, the villainous aide, the tiny guide-horse, and all the other sundry and very colorful characters.  Patricia Cornwell is not generally associated with black humor; I think she has found another calling.  Look out, Scarpetta, to say nothing of Carl Hiaasen.	2001-11-04
US	51988066	R24C7KOD73JFG1	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Shattered Innocence	This is a dark and deeply disturbing novel, eerily reminiscent of &quot;Lord of the Flies.&quot;  It begins with 11-year-old Alice Fendar's certainty that her step-father, the slimy pseudo-preacher Simon Jester, means to kill her and her older brother, Boone.  Their mother, Meg, pregnant with Simon's child, is more concerned with keeping her man than protecting her children.  Alice, however, is a resourceful child who takes some fairly extreme measures to protect herself and her brother.<br />And then celebrated juvenile detainee Persely Snow, confined for parental murder, escapes and, in a bizarre twist of fate, enters the lives of the Fendar kids.<br />Meanwhile, the blowsy Meg finally gets a clue that her kids may actually be in danger and implores them to &quot;Run!&quot;  And run they do, with Persely, to a tiny, uninhabited island where their sense of values and civilization itself undergo dramatic changes.<br />While its themes are dark and rambling and somewhat twisted, this suspenseful and fast-paced novel will definitely make you think and, more importantly, reevaluate your own sense of values and mores.  While justice in the traditional sense may not have prevailed in the end, there is certainly a whopping dose of poetic justice meted out.  I'm glad I finally got around to reading this provacative and beautifully written novel.	2001-10-04
US	51988066	R1S08BFCOSYGZH	0385335180	541991009	Moon Women: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Purely Magical	Ruth Ann Payne, middle-aged native of a small town in the North Carolina mountains, has her hands full.  She's about to turn 50, has divorced her husband A.J. and, as this delicious novel opens, is about to bring home from Rehab her youngest daughter, Ashley.  Ruth Ann has set out to, for the first time in her life, live her own life, but Ashley is her child and she can't turn her back on her when she needs a place to live.  Poor Ruth Ann may have bitten off more than she bargained for, though -- Ashley is unmarried and pregnant at 19.  And then Marvelle Moon, Ruth Ann's 80+ year old mother who is going senile, walks away from her home with daughter Cassandra and refuses to live anywhere but with Ruth Ann.<br />These characters are so vividly defined and the interaction among them is so real that at times I felt as though I was reading about some of my own family escapades.  A recurring theme throughout this beautiful novel is that of human flaws and frailties.  The magic woven throughout by this gifted author speaks to powerful emotions and gothic secrets soothed by the balm of forgiveness and acceptance.  The author has taken an ordinary family and turned their everyday problems into pure magic.  This book had me alternately smiling indulgently, nodding knowingly, proffering advice aloud, and shedding tears.  What an absolute jewel of a first novel!	2001-08-08
US	51988066	R2VPZ335VJC5FJ	0515131083	20771988	Plantation: A Lowcountry Tale	Books	5	6	6	N	N	And if I could give it more than 5, I would!	Caroline Wimbley Levine is a South Carolina native living in New York City, married to a Jewish psychiatrist, mother of a darling young boy, running a decorating business, and about to turn 40. Life has been pretty good to her. She thought.<br />When Caroline answers a call from her brother, Trip, saying their mother needs to be placed in assisted living, she makes a trip home to the Low Country of South Carolina to check things out. Her mother, Lavinia, a flamboyant but oh so well bred matron, seems like the same old Lavinia to her. The problem seems to be Trip's trashy wife, Frances Mae, pregnant again and longing to live at Tall Pines, Lavinia's ancestral home.  Satisfied that Frances Mae's designs have been nipped in the bud and Lavinia is fine, Caroline heads back home to New York.  It isn't long, however, before her marriage goes South and, at loose ends, she packs up her child and heads back to Tall Pines.<br />More than the story of Caroline &quot;finding herself&quot; and growing up at the age of 40, this is a witty, intelligent, sensitively written tale of home and family and relationships. No matter who you are or where you live, you are sure to see glimpses of yourself, your friends, and your family as we watch Caroline learn to date, discern the difference between love and sex, mend fences with her only sibling, and discover the woman beneath the facade of her mother. And don't we all have a relative somewhere who needs a good, swift kick kick in the pants?!  It is a pleasure watching Caroline grow enough backbone to send ol' Frances Mae down the road to her comeuppance.<br />The novel enters its most poignant phase with Lavinia's diagnosis of melanoma.  It is during Lavinia's illness that Caroline finally finds her mettle and comes into her own.  It sure made me think about my own familial relationships and strengths and how I will handle these trials when they come. And they will. This book is a wonderful treasure trove of wisdom and lessons, and I am richer for having read it.richer for having read it.	2001-08-05
US	51988066	R2CK33E1QBNDVO	0345428145	717221126	Murder One	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Rapier sharp	Tulsa, Oklahoma, attorney Ben Kincaid has risen through the ranks to become one of my favorite characters in contemporary fiction.  In &quot;Murder One&quot;, Ben has been retained to represent teenage stripper Keri Delcanton for the murder of her older, married lover.  The victim, police detective Joe McNaughton, was viciously murdered, mutilated, and left hanging from a downtown fountain.<br />Although Ben believes in his client's innocence, the circumstantial evidence against her is so overwhelming that a conviction is almost a foregone conclusion.  And then a huge technical error on the part of the police blows the prosecution's case out of the water and Keri is acquitted.<br />The Police Department, District Attorney, and much of the public at large are outraged and it isn't long before the cops raid Ben's office and &quot;find&quot; the knife used to slaughter McNaughton.  Ben is quickly arrested and charged with the murder his client was freed for.  Enter Christina McCall, Ben's effervescent former legal assistant who has just graduated from law school.  Christina ably represents Ben on the bogus charges, which are finally dropped when a way around double jeopardy is found and new charges are filed against Keri.<br />The story moves forward at a staccato pace to its thrilling O Henry-like climax.  This one should not be missed by legal thriller fans.  It's a definite keeper.	2001-08-05
US	51988066	R6XKDB36K8EPJ	0743204832	995472619	Bitterroot	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Uniquely Compelling	I'm a long-time fan of Burke's Dave Robicheaux series, but a newcomer to the Billy Bob Holland series.  Am I impressed?  You betcha.<br />Billy Bob Holland is a former Texas Ranger now practicing law, and not all that successfully, in Deaf Smith, Texas, who heads out to Big Sky Country for some fishing with his buddy, Doc Voss.  Doc has run afoul of a mining company over environmental issues, to say nothing of the local Mob and some mondo bizarro Hollywood types.  When Doc's teenage daughter is attacked and one of the biker suspects is later murdered, Doc is arrested.  Though Billy Bob is out of his bailiwick and perhaps out of his depth, he accedes to Doc's plea for legal representation and the chase is on.  More bodies pile up even as the list of possible suspects grows by leaps and bounds.<br />This is a wonderfully literary, intricately layered mystery.  Robicheaux fans who haven't yet discovered the Western face of James Lee Burke, believe me, you're in for a treat.	2001-07-28
US	51988066	R1J0J1A8CQOIDW	0684859726	840593809	Fatal Voyage : A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	All I can say is, Wow!	Dr. Temperance Brennan is already in North Carolina when a plane goes down in the mountains in the western part of the state.  As a forensic anthropologist, Tempe is dispatched to aid in body recovery and identification.  In the woods near the crash site, Tempe discovers a human foot, but it can't be part of the crash carnage because this foot obviously belongs to a body dead for some time.  As she works on the mystery of the foot as a sideline to her primary duties incident to the plane crash, someone is working behind the scenes to discredit Tempe and manipulate evidence.  Does this have anything to do with the working theory that a bomb brought the plane down?  And what about the creepy old abandoned mansion deep in the forest where Tempe stumbled upon evidence of a walled-up grave?  Why has she been forbidden by her superiors to return there?<br />This book has it all -- mysteries within mysteries, superior suspense, and top-notch character and plot development.  Oh, yeah, and a great new pet for Tempe -- Boyd the dog.  For my money, this is THE best Temperance Brennan novel to date.  Be warned -- the denouement when it is finally revealed is so startling, so unanticipated, so out there, and so very weird that it will throw you for a complete loop.	2001-07-28
US	51988066	R3LJY94T3DAYZ5	0399147357	486821945	Dead Sleep	Books	5	11	14	N	N	NO sleep 'til I finished it	Jordan Glass is a world-class photojournalist whose twin sister, Jane, disappeared without a trace over a year before from her New Orleans home and family.  On a chance stop at a Hong Kong art museum, Jordan's attention is drawn to a collection of paintings called &quot;The Sleeping Women.&quot;  To Jordan's practiced eye, the women appear to be dead rather than merely sleeping, which is horrifying enough.  And then she is shocked to her core as she looks into the face of one of the painted women and realizes she could be looking into a mirror.  Convinced that the painting depicts her missing and presumed dead sister, Jordan flees Hong Kong and contacts the FBI upon her return to the States.<br />The FBI has been investigating a long series of missing women in the New Orleans area, although no bodies have been found.  Both Jordan and the FBI are convinced that the paintings prove they are looking for a serial killer.  The painter's identity is unknown, and when Jordan attempts to question the New York art dealer who arranged the exhibition in Hong Kong, his apartment is bombed and he is killed.<br />The plot, sub-plots, and imagery are stunning and the pace is, in a word, frantic.  Greg Iles's tremendous talent expands with each new book, and this one is not only unputdownable but unforgettable.  The ending will shock and astonish you and leave you begging for another Iles book soonest.	2001-07-23
US	51988066	R1F55OKQ9MO4XZ	0385335555	718492514	Tell No One	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Summer Intrigue	Dr. David Beck has managed to put his life back together in the 8 years since an attack by a serial killer which claimed the life of his wife, Elizabeth.  And then one day he gets a cryptic e-mail message hinting that the sender is his dead wife - with a warning to tell no one.<br />As he attempts to find out the source of the continuing messages, Beck finds himself not only swept up in a world of power brokers with hired assasins and witnesses who know more than they're telling, but accused by the FBI of murdering Elizabeth.<br />This is an elegantly wrought novel of high suspense which keeps you guessing and ties up all the loose ends at just the right time.  This is a perfect beach take-along for the mystery aficionado.	2001-07-23
US	51988066	RRKM9YY92P9S9	0743203321	229095796	Dark Hollow	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dark Poetry	Former cop Charlie &quot;Bird&quot; Parker has moved to his childhood home of Scarborough, Maine, when he is hired by Rita Purdue to attempt to get some child support money from her ex-husband, Billy.  Billy grudgingly hands over some cash, but very soon thereafer Rita and her small son are found murdered.  The police immediately suspect Billy, but Bird just doesn't believe Billy has it in him to have done such a thing and goes after him to find him before the police do.<br />At the same time, some very strange events have occurred in Dark Hollow, Maine, which appear to have some bizarre connection to Billy Purdue.  Dark Hollow has a legendary boogeyman named Caleb Kyle, but is he fact or fiction?  His gruesome crimes were a case worked on but unsolved by Bird's grandfather.  And what possible connection could he have to Billy Purdue?  Bird figures he'd better find out pretty quickly when people close to Billy start dying.  The chase is complicated by the intervention of thugs also looking for Billy because he stole a case full of ransom money before disappearing.<br />With help from his pals Angel and Lewis, a scary pair in their own right, Bird descends upon Dark Hollow only to find that the chief of police is the husband of a former lover and that he can expect little assistance from local law enforcement.  As the hunt for Billy and the elusive and perhaps nonexistent Caleb Kyle intensifies, events converge to forge an unlikely alliance with the reluctant police chief and all hell breaks loose when the gangsters arrive in Dark Hollow.<br />This is an exciting, fast paced novel packed tightly with sheer intensity.  Though the subject matter is gritty and graphic, John Connolly's words flow off the pages in a rushing stream of poetry as beguilingly beautiful as it is dangerous.	2001-06-26
US	51988066	R1RR4WA9IGULY3	0671887971	176411000	Ring of Truth	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Totally engrossing	Crime writer Marie Lightfoot has written a book about the case of a preacher accused of the murder of his wife in collusion with his mistress.  The preacher was tried, convicted, and sentenced to death while his alleged accomplice was acquitted.  Case closed, right?  Not quite.  As an aside in her book, Marie wrote briefly about the case of a young woman murdered several years before and the conviction and death sentence of her killer.  In a strange twist of fate, Marie is given cause to second-guess her belief in the guilt of both accuseds and sets out to reinvestigate both cases.  The witnesses and evidence she uncovers create more questions than answers, and this is one exciting read as Ms. Pickard ties it all together.	2001-06-24
US	51988066	R2G7S0I0H741RP	0312265840	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Long May She Reign	Stephanie Plum, bounty hunter extraordinaire, is on the hunt this time for geriatric miscreant Eddie DeChooch, wanted by the cops for cigarette smuggling and wanted by thugs for stealing something really weird.  Choochy can't half see, can't hear, and has a troublesome prostate.  Problem is, he keeps getting away in his borrowed Cadillac, which is really irritating Stephanie.<br />As if job problems and man troubles weren't enough, Stephanie's &quot;perfect&quot; sister, Valerie, has moved back home with her 2 kids and decided to become a lesbian.  In an effort to placate her long-suffering and menopausal mother, Stephanie gets herself trapped into announcing a wedding date with Morelli and dragged off to try on wedding gowns.  Which is not to say that Ranger is out of the picture.  Stay tuned!<br />During the hunt for the runaway geezer, Grandma Mazur is kidnapped, Bob the dog eats like a king and keeps arch enemy Joyce Barnhardt hopping, Stephanie's apartment is broken into several times a day, her brand new car gets - what else? - trashed, and she gets shot at more times than is strictly comfortable.  Finally, she says ENOUGH and dyes her hair blonde for a morale boost.  And I won't even tell you what she does with the pig heart.<br />The adventures of Stephanie Plum keep getting better and better and the humor is hoot-out-loud hilarious.  I love Stephanie Plum, and I want to BE Stephanie Plum in the final scene!	2001-06-24
US	51988066	RCZVH5KJ57M8Q	0688177751	445501217	Miss Julia Speaks Her Mind: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You go, Miss Julia!	Julia Springer is a widow in her late 60's who has recently buried her husband, Wesley Lloyd Springer, a pillar of their small North Carolina community and leader in their church.  Julia is learning to handle the money her late husband inadvertently left her and just beginning to start thinking for herself after 44 years under Wesley's thumb.  She is thrown for a complete loop when her doorbell rings one day and there stands Hazel Marie Puckett, claiming to be the dour and humorless Wesley's long-time mistress.  It's all Julia can do to remain conscious when Hazel Marie, daughter of a ne'er-do-well family from the wrong side of town, thrusts a 9-year-old boy over the threshhold, introduces him as the only child of the late Wesley Springer, and implores Julia to take care of him while Hazel Marie attends beauty school in Raleigh.<br />Someone apparently thinks either Hazel Marie or her son has something they want, and Julia endures the indignities of harassment and home burglary until the child, with whom she has unwittingly bonded, is kidnapped.  The story is alternately charming, witty, and bittersweet as Miss Julia forms an unlikely alliance with the blowsy Hazel Marie, recruits her faithful housekeeper Lillian for a rescue mission, and drives the getaway car as they storm Spartanburg, South Carolina, to take back the child.  Miss Julia hasn't driven much in years, is terrified of the Interstate, and can't see at night, all of which makes the rescue scene hysterically funny.<br />Once the child is safe and it looks as though Miss Julia and Lillian will escape a jail sentence for their escapade, an anomaly with the late, not much lamented Wesley's Will arises and Miss Julia will discover what she is made of.<br />This is a funny, heartwarming novel which is highly recommended no matter what your age or gender.	2001-06-06
US	51988066	R3ANOVNFHN268W	1588513513	202500840	Bloodsworth Island	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Weird science	Gene Nolan is a doctor virtually unemployable elsewhere when he is hired by Dr. Marcus Gallagher to work at Davenport Center, his research facility on Bloodsworth Island in the Chesapeake Bay.  All of Dr. Gallagher's employees have been subjected to a cult-like indoctrination and live by rigid, Draconian rules in what amounts to slavery.  The goal of the Davenport Center is purportedly the eradication of genetically transmitted diseases, but Dr. Gallagher's goals are decidedly less than altruistic.  This novel, quite reminiscent of &quot;1984&quot;, takes an interesting look at eugenics and genetic engineering and how a benevolent concept can be perverted when placed in the wrong hands.  The writing team is obviously talented and I would anticipate that they have other stories up their sleeves.	2001-06-06
US	51988066	RTPZDC608I32P	0375506179	287871634	Big Cherry Holler	Books	5	4	5	N	N	About as good as it gets	In this sequel to the excellent and haunting &quot;Big Stone Gap&quot;, we catch up with Ave Maria MacChesney (nee Mulligan) 8 years after her marriage to Jack Mac.  Her close-knit circle of friends are still around, including the irrepressible Iva Lou.  Ave Maria's life, however, continues to be an ever-changing tableau replete with loss, love, yearning, and hope.  Ave Maria has become a mother, and only when she takes her young daughter to Italy for the summer does she face the reality of the walls which have arisen between her and Jack.  Both she and Jack are facing change and their lives are moving in different directions at a rapid clip.  Both have some tough decisions to make.  Will either of them succumb to temptation?  Can their marriage survive the changes necessary to sustain everyday life which have a huge impact on their diverse personalities?  The answers to these questions and more are delivered with wit, humor, angst, joy, and the earthy wisdom of a master storyteller.  This second volume of a trilogy packs a wallop and I can't wait for the third book.	2001-06-04
US	51988066	R1GPOLQDMZJCY2	0345438329	46292343	Big Stone Gap: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Mountain Magic	35-year-old Ave Maria Mulligan has grown up in the tiny Virginia mountain town of Big Stone Gap with her Italian mother and moody, reserved father.  She lives through her books, a small assortment of colorful friends, her work as a pharmacist, and her hobby of the ancient Chinese art of face reading.  Content with her lot, the feisty Ave Maria is resigned to the life of a small-town spinster.  And then, suddenly, on one fateful day in 1978, her life makes a 360-degree sea change.  Ave Maria is both shocked and thrilled to learn that she is not the person she always assumed herself to be, nor is her fate to be that which she had envisioned.  The reader is indebted to the talented Adriana Trigiani for her richly textured, perfectly lyrical prose as we follow Ave Maria on her journey of self-discovery, renewal, and growth.  Ave Maria's evolution is a joy to read and the twists and turns which lead her to new planes are purely magical.  I will not do the potential reader the disservice of divulging the surprises destiny has in store for Ave Maria.  Rather, I will simply advise you to get this treasure of a book ASAP and discover for yourself the beautiful elixir conjured up by Ms. Trigiani from the soil and stone of the Virginia mountains (where I am proud to live).	2001-06-03
US	51988066	R1VPU0R5TKSHYM	0380976552	980309568	You Only Die Twice: A Novel (Britt Montero Mysteries)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fabulous Suspense From a Maven	The death warrant has been signed and R. J. Jordan is days away from execution by the State of Florida for the 10-year-old murder of his beautiful young wife, Kaithlin.  Kaithlin's body was never found, but the circumstantial evidence of her demise was so overwhelming that R. J.'s protestations of innocence fell on deaf ears.<br />Miami crime reporter Britt Montero is on the beach when the freshly murdered body of a young woman washes ashore.  Imagine the chagrin of law enforcement officials when the body is finally identified as that of ... Kaithlin Jordan.  After an emergency hearing, an understandably surly R. J. Jordan is released from prison and Britt begins her investigation into where Kaithlin Jordan has been for the past ten years and why she suddenly showed up dead in Miami, to say nothing of who killed her.<br />The answers to these questions and more will shock you and, chillingly, this scenario could so easily actually happen.  The pace of this absolutely fabulous thriller is so frantic that I finished it in one evening.  Nobody writes 'em like Edna Buchanan, who's been there and done that.	2001-05-16
US	51988066	R23KDI2BA1GCDV	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Utterly Stunning	When former New York cop &quot;Bird&quot; Parker's wife and child are hideously murdered, Bird's life is turned upside down in every way.  Suddenly sober and no longer a cop, Bird is taking a few unlicensed PI cases when he is hired to locate a missing woman.  As one clue leads straight to another, Bird is firmly convinced that the case of the missing woman is linked to the killing of his family.  And so the hunt is on.<br />The action moves from New York City to a small, insular town in Virginia, to New Orleans and the dank and murky swamps of south Louisiana.  The psychic visions imparted to Bird by an elderly blind woman living in bayou country are only the beginning of this stunningly chilling novel.  As more people die and old bodies surface, the evidence is unmistakable that they all died at the same hands and that Bird, with the assistance of local police, the FBI, and assorted miscreants of his own choosing, is on the trail of a horrific serial killer.<br />The characters are wonderfully 3-dimensional, the imagery is simply stunning, and the suspense is unrelenting as Bird is forced to not only try and remain alive by out-maneuvering the killer but to confront the dichotomy of his own nature.  The conclusion of this dark and disturbing novel is, in a word, breathtaking.<br />It is true that the violent nature of the story is graphically depicted, but it is crucial to the story and thus not gratuitous.  It is the nature of the genre.<br />I am astonished that this is Mr. Connolly's first novel and anticipate with great relish the gift of his next.	2001-05-01
US	51988066	R37G69AGM1BJCI	1551667940	299429989	Bone Cold	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Intrigue in the Big Easy	As a child, writer Anna North was the victim of a terrible crime.  She has changed her name and moved to New Orleans to put the past behind her but, 23 years later, the nightmare begins again.  Someone has not only discovered her real identity, but is sending chilling threats to her and her friends.  When red-haired women bearing a striking resemblance to Anna start getting killed on the streets of her French Quarter neighborhood, she has little doubt that she could be next.  As the campaign of terror against her heats up, it becomes increasingly hard for her to know whom to trust.  Quentin Malone is a homicide detective who doesn't quite seem to buy her story at first.  His partner has been exhibiting some bizarre behavior and argued with the first redheaded victim the night she was killed.  Then there is Dr. Ben Walker, who not only wants to counsel Anna on a professional level but wants a more personal relationship with her.  Even Anna's sweet and gentle neighbors whom she has known for years come under suspicion.  I would have read this through to the end for the richly wrought images of French Quarter New Orleans alone, but the story is clever and compelling enough to merit sitting up late to finish.	2001-04-27
US	51988066	R1LB5O1YA6ZQK2	1551667940	299429989	Bone Cold	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Intrigue in the Big Easy	As a child, writer Anna North was the victim of a terrible crime.  She has changed her name and moved to New Orleans to put the past behind her but, 23 years later, the nightmare begins again.  Someone has not only discovered her real identity, but is sending chilling threats to her and her friends.  When red-haired women bearing a striking resemblance to Anna start getting killed on the streets of her French Quarter neighborhood, she has little doubt that she could be next.  As the campaign of harassment against her heats up, it becomes increasingly hard for her to know whom to trust.  Quentin Malone is a homicide detective who doesn't quite seem to buy her story at first.  His partner has been exhibiting some bizarre behavior and argued with the the first redheaded victim the night she was killed.  Then there is Dr. Ben Walker, who not only wants to counsel Anna on a professional level but wants a more personal relationship with her.  Even Anna's sweet and gentle neighbors whom she has known for years come under suspicion.  I would have read this through to the end just for the richly wrought images of French Quarter New Orleans, but the story is clever and compelling and worth sitting up late to finish.	2001-04-23
US	51988066	R2TJL86NLT8HJT	006017613X	495185639	Nora, Nora: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The times, they were a'changing	12-year-old Peyton McKenzie's life in the small town of Lytton, Georgia, is gliding by in a somnolent haze in the summer of 1961.  Her mother died at her birth and her father is distant and reserved.  Much of Peyton's nurturing has been left to Clothilde, the family's housekeeper, though her father has recently turned her over to Aunt Augusta's untender ministrations for advice on becoming a young lady.  All of the dread and prissy Aunt Augusta's straightlaced instruction is about to come to a screeching halt, for Peyton's redheaded, flamboyant second cousin Nora has just barrelled into town in her pink T-bird and Lytton, Georgia, will never be the same.  Aunt Augusta's back gets stiffer and her lips tighter when freewheeling, whiskey drinking, cigarette smoking, swear word spouting Nora moves into the McKenzie guestroom and befriends the lonely Peyton.  Young Peyton is like a sponge, parched and aching to soak up the ambience of life outside her small town prison, and Nora is the perfect water-bearer.  There are many elements to this wonderful story, from small town prejudices and changing mores to rites of passage to selfishness to selflessness, all masterfully woven together by the imcomparable Ms. Siddons.  While this is Southern fiction, its message is universal and timeless.	2001-04-23
US	51988066	R39OWNTXDFWOIU	0385499035	515648474	The Program	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Taut Suspense	(Originally submitted 3/18/01)<br />Kirsten Lord was a New Orleans District Attorney before the murder of her husband by a vindictive defendant forced her and her daughter into the federal Witness Protection Program.  Transplanted to Boulder, Colorado, with a new identity, her only friend and unlikely ally is a former hit man for the Mob who is also in the Program.  Dr. Alan Gregory is a Boulder psychologist appointed by the Program to work with both of them, and it is to Dr. Gregory that Kirsten turns when it becomes apparent that her new identity has been compromised.  There is evidence that someone inside the Marshals Service may be feeding information about her to the people looking for her, but there is evidence also that more than one set of thugs has it in for Kirsten Lord.  There are many layers to this richly structured story, including a Death Row inmate who might be innocent, a Miami drug lord, bad cops, and rogue U. S. Marshals.  I have come to anticipate each new Dr. Gregory novel and this one (with the possible exception of the soap opera-like names) is exceptional.	2001-03-24
US	51988066	RENMZXGSJ4AAI	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Compelling	Knowing that the usual cast of characters would be absent from Lehane's new book, I wasn't sure what to expect.  Suffice it to say that I was pleasantly surprised and constrained to keep turning the pages of this work which so compellingly captures another facet of Lehane's gift for writing.<br />Sean Devine, Jimmy Marcus, and Dave Boyle have been friends since childhood.  One summer when they were boys, Dave was kidnapped and something in him changed forever.  25 years later, Sean has become a homicide detective and Jimmy has become the owner of a neighborhood store after a stint in prison.  When Jimmy's daughter, Katie, is brutally murdered, Sean is assigned to the case.  Jimmy is becoming obsessed with thoughts of vengeance before Sean can even complete his paperwork and, in the meantime, neither of them knows that Dave came home covered in blood the night of the murder.<br />The threesome's friendship, marriages, loyalties, and the very fabric of their lives will be severely tested and forever altered before the shocking conclusion of this dark and complex story.  This novel is highly recommended whether you're already a fan or this is your first Dennis Lehane.	2001-03-18
US	51988066	RX0S3ZH5IP32H	0671787268	609092345	The Girls He Adored	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A new slant on evil	As this dark and deeply disturbing tale begins, FBI agent Pender has been investigating the disappearances of a number of women from across the country over the past 10 years.  The disappearances appear to be random, with victims of a variety of ages and lifestyles.  The only thing they have in common is that they're all strawberry blondes.<br />A suspect is finally apprehended in California after a routine traffic stop but before Pender can interrogate the man who calls himself Max, Max escapes from jail.  Once free, Max abducts Irene Cogan, his court-appointed psychiatrist, and flees to his secluded house of horrors on a ridge in Oregon.  Max is a multiple personality who views the strawberry blonde Irene as not only his prisoner but as the only person who can help him integrate his personalities and allow him to function as one entity.  Max's Oregon compound is shared by an eerie, disfigured woman and the place is overshadowed by ghosts, literally and figuratively.<br />The author evinces a certain sympathy for Max, who was the victim of horrific abuse as a child.  Still, the wanton barbarity of his crimes would seem to abrogate any hope of redemption.  As Irene Cogan tries to survive both by counseling Max and searching desperately for some means of escape, Pender makes his way to Oregon following one obscure clue after another.  This book will keep you up all night with the lights on and the door locked as the suspense builds to a shattering conclusion.	2001-03-18
US	51988066	R31MU2WPEWXPPI	0679453059	301550959	Death Benefits: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Chilling	John Walker is a young data analyst in the San Francisco office of a large insurance company.  When his former lover, Ellen Snyder, disappears after paying a multi-million-dollar death benefit to an impostor, John is hand-picked by security consultant Max Stillman to help him track down both Ellen and the impostor.<br />The two diverse men start out at cross purposes since Stillman is counting on John's familiarity with Ellen to track her while John is firmly convinced that Ellen was an innocent pawn in the scheme.  Leads take the men all over the country and ultimately into a chilling conspiracy fraught with more danger than either of them signed on for.  The search finally ends with a bang in a small New Hampshire town, an ending neither John nor Stillman (or the reader!) ever expected.<br />This is a heck of a good suspense novel which will keep you guessing all the way.  I doubt whether I'll ever look at small towns or the insurance industry the same way again!	2001-03-18
US	51988066	R2VRQAPYKMIQJ6	060980619X	849421589	God Save the Sweet Potato Queens	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Not for those with weak bladders!	The Tammys, those Mississippi belles gone bad, are back with another hysterically funny cross-section of their bigger than life lives.  Just a sampling of the chapter titles should be sufficient to give you a good feel for the irreverent joy in store when you read this:  My Hors Are Moning; A Pot to Priss In; What to do When the Rabbit Dies; Divorce, Dating Again, and Revirgination; Civil Rights, Body Hair, and Other Delicate Matters; and, of course, More Death-Defying Recipes.  Let me just tell y'all, if you work somewhere sedate and dignified, don't try to read this there because I guarantee you're going to be hooting out loud and you might even wet your pants a little.  God save the Sweet Potato Queens, God love 'em and, God willing, there will be a SPQ3 soon.	2001-02-27
US	51988066	R1BAHBSMO014NW	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Magical	On the day of his father's death, an amazing child named Bartholomew Lampion is born.  And on that same day, Angel White is born, a child conceived in violence whose teenage mother did not survive her birth.  Her father, a sociopath by the name of Junior Cain, has no idea Angel exists until, due to the inter-connectedness of all things and beings -- a central theme of this book -- he learns that he has a mortal enemy named Bartholomew who he is compelled by his dark forces to seek and destroy.  Only while searching for clues to the identity of the elusive Bartholomew does Cain learn of Angel's birth, whereupon he decides that she, too, must die.  Both children are extraordinarily gifted, each in different ways, and fate brings them together as Cain draws nearer.<br />The old Koontz legerdemain is back in this magically suspenseful tour de force.  The characters are exceptionally strongly developed and the suspense which binds them together is masterfully woven.  Dean Koontz reaffirms with his powerful prose that he is the master of this genre.  I loved it.	2001-01-21
US	51988066	R3S8F1KKYEO0FO	0316693251	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Puzzling in more ways than one	This book has all the trappings of an Alex Cross thriller -- violent crime spree, Alex Cross and John Sampson on the case, Cross and Sampson butting heads with the FBI, Cross sidetracked by some personal angst.  I'm afraid the story just didn't do much for me, though, because it simply never came together in the usual Patterson fashion.  I thought the violence was a bit overblown and, frankly, somewhat gratuitous.  There was no discernible reason for the teensy 2- and 3-page chapters, either.  In short, a criminal calling himself the Mastermind is robbing banks, taking bank employees' families hostage, and indiscriminately killing some of them.  The identity of the Mastermind is not revealed until the last sentence, so there is no resolution nor justice meted out.  Apparently, that will come in the next book, for which this one was a marketing tool.  I expected better.	2001-01-21
US	51988066	RL1BQTGZT0401	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	5	26	32	N	N	Stunning	There's not a lot of SciFi on my reading list, but my dear friend Mamalinda not only recommended this but sent it to me.  And I'm so glad she did; otherwise, I would have missed this stunningly beautiful novel.<br />Kivrin is a young English historian in this novel set some years in the future when time travel is possible.  Set to embark upon what is to be a short, tightly controlled visit to 1320 England, something goes terribly wrong and she is sent instead into the year 1348, a time when the Black Plague is ravishing Europe and the British Isles.  Sheltering with the family in a minor rural manor, realizing at the same time that something has gone awry and she is not going to find her way to the drop point in time to travel home, Kivrin finds herself bonding with the family, coping with the difficulties of everyday medieval life, and immersing herself in the daily travails of their lives.  And then the Plague comes and it falls to Kivrin, a thoroughly modern young woman, to nurse the victims as best she can in primitive conditions, bury them when they die, and try to survive herself.  The characters are so beautifully developed that it is impossible not to feel the emotions they are feeling, to rejoice with them, and hurt with them.  This period in history is richly and expertly chronicled by the author, right down to the subtle nuances of the still-evolving English language.  This is a beautifully written, powerfully moving book to get lost in, to savor, and to think about long after the final chapter is read.	2001-01-21
US	51988066	R1TCHBM1O8BO3K	0446527289	188084707	The First Counsel	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Political intrigue that's fun!	This story involving the totally out of control sex-drugs-and-rock-and-roll daughter of a sitting president is completely over the top, and yet it works in a big way.  Michael Garrick, a young White House lawyer, has begun dating Nora Hartson, the president's daughter, as the novel begins.  Because of a wild and seemingly spontaneous action on Nora's part as they are out one night, Michael and Nora witness something they should never have seen, something inexplicable, something which embroils them both in a dangerous situation from which there may be no escape.  Michael's chief concern at the outset is protecting Nora and her reputation, while Nora's motives and concerns remain both ambiguous and enigmatic.  When Michael finds a White House co-worker dead in her office, it soon becomes apparent that he has inadvertently stumbled upon a scheme involving blackmail and murder.  As evidence is skillfully manipulated to implicate Michael in both the blackmail plot and murders, Nora is reluctant to alibi him even as she continues to play with his emotions and promises that she won't let him go down.  But can she be trusted?  The pace is positively breakneck as the evidence against Michael continues to pile up and he realizes that he can trust no one because someone -- perhaps his lover, perhaps his boss, or perhaps his best friend -- has set him up from the beginning.  By the last quarter of the book, Michael is on the run from the FBI and the Secret Service, frantically searching for any shred of evidence which will clear him.  The ending is an absolute shocker and, unlikely premise notwithstanding, I enjoyed this thriller immensely from beginning to end.	2001-01-21
US	51988066	R3IN2WVOZNT7S5	1551667851	156432214	No Defense (Barbara Holloway Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great legal suspense	Combine a suicide which might be a murder, a young widow with a big insurance payoff, an old unsolved disappearance/murder, a rich family which controls the county, and a federal judge with secrets and you have the ingredients for a first-rate mystery.  As this story unfolds and Barbara Holloway, a no-nonsense lawyer, comes onboard to protect the interests of the widow, we know that something dark happened and we know that more than one person is hiding knowledge of just what happened.  Not until near the end, however, does the author unveil the explosive secrets.  This novel will grab your attention from the beginning and the suspense will sustain you 'til the denouement.  It is, in a word, excellent.	2001-01-21
US	51988066	R1XAWDFJ72A0ZN	0399146245	897342569	24 Hours	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Unrelenting suspense	Dr. Will Jennings and his wife Karen are the loving parents of 5-year-old Abby.  Life is good when Will leaves for a medical conference in Biloxi while Karen prepares for a Junior League flower show.  And then a monster, a twisted genius named John Hickey, steps into their lives and kidnaps Abby.  Hickey has a plan which leaves him virtually untouchable, and he's cocky enough to use his real name in his dealings with his victims.  He's used the same plan each year for the past 5 years, kidnapping a doctor's child, collecting the ransom, and releasing the child unharmed.  And his plan is so ingenious that his crimes have never been reported.  This year, though, there's a change of plan, for there is a personal and diabolical reason for targeting Will Jennings and Hickey wants more than money.  Will Jennings, however, has a plan of his own for rescuing his diabetic daughter who will die if she doesn't get the insulin she needs.  The pace of this thriller is absolutely frenetic as Karen and Will match wits with Hickey and his partners.  Suspense just doesn't get much better than this.	2001-01-03
US	51988066	R2OC7KN4HGYOJI	0892967048	727646325	The Bottoms	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Just Plain Dang Incredible	I bought this book because of the bookseller's description likening it to a latter-day TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD, thinking in the back of my mind, &quot;Yeah, right.&quot;  But it's true!  In this novel incorporating elements of mystery, adventure, and rites of passage, Harry Crane and his little sister Tom (Thomasina) come face to face with pure evil in their small East Texas town in a beautifully written tale set in the 1930's.  Their terror begins as they stray too far from home one evening.  Taking a shortcut home trying to beat the encroaching darkness, they encounter beneath a rickety swinging bridge crossing the Sabine River what must surely be the legendary Goat Man.  Of course, the children have been told by the adults they look up to that there is no such thing.  But SOMEthing chased them across the bridge and through the woods, right into the path of the body of a horribly mutilated black woman.  The childrens' father, Jacob Crane, is the local constable and it falls to him to try to identify the woman and find her killer.  A name has hardly been put to the woman before another body turns up similarly butchered, and then another.  Most of the victims were black, but when a white woman is killed racial tensions flare, culminating in an ugly lynching.  At the same time that fear pervades the community while the killer is being sought, Tom and Harry are trying to grow up and come to terms with issues of family, birth and death, race, sexuality, loyalty, and betrayal.  The characters are so richly developed that the reader can almost see their faces, from trousers-wearing Grandma to demure but tough Mama to the gentle 100-year-old black lady, Miss Maggie, who meets a bad end.  This hauntingly beautiful piece of fiction deserves a plethora of honors and awards, and I am recommending it to everyone I know.	2001-01-03
US	51988066	R1I90MIMC872LK	0451180429	333139516	The Quiet Game (Penn Cage)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	SO good!	Penn Cage is a former Texas prosecutor turned writer who takes his small daughter home to his parents in Natchez, Mississippi, after the death of his wife.  As soon as he hears whispered rumors of the 30-year-old murder of a local black man, he begins looking into it.  Little does he know that his questions will expose his family to horrific danger and bring the wrath of the FBI down on him.  Whether the long-ago murder was committed to silence a civil rights activist or whether the motive was the usual love or money, Penn is in the case shrouded in its miasma of conspiracy and cover-up for the duration.  The storyline grabs you from the beginning, but you don't want to flip the pages TOO fast because you don't want to miss a word of Iles's beautiful prose.  He doesn't miss or omit a single nuance of Southern life, and every time I picked this book back up I felt like I was being transported straight to Natchez.  Based on both plot and exceptional writing, this is one of the best books I've read in a long time.	2000-11-12
US	51988066	RPKFWZEVANA9Z	0399146687	239822085	Perish Twice	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Rehashing old hash	After delighting in &quot;Family Honor&quot;, I was expecting great things from PI Sunny Randall's second outing.  I was bitterly disappointed to find what amounts to little more than a contemporary rewrite of &quot;Looking for Rachel Wallace&quot; solved by a female incarnation of Spenser.  The plot is so banal that when I finished, all I could think was &quot;Geez, who cares?&quot;  The rest is fillers of psychobabble, neuroses, and non-believable relationship problems.  Shoot, the sanest and most believable character was the dog.  Maybe Parker should ditch Sunny and let the dog solve the next case.	2000-11-12
US	51988066	R3PKJUCW49IB4N	0451200799	989223479	The Shadow Hunter	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Hide and Seek turned deadly	Abby Sinclair works for a security company hired to protect high profile news anchor Kris Barwood who's being stalked.  Raymond Hickle, the paranoid loser of a stalker, is a known quantity, but there is much more going on than meets the eye.  Abby's renting the apartment next to Hickle's is dangerous enough, but there is more danger coming at her than she can imagine.  As Abby hunts Hickle, she never dreams that she herself is prey until it's almost too late.  The unexpected twists and turns are ingenious and turn this into a real nail-biter of a page-turner.	2000-11-12
US	51988066	R1F539S6VNUM3E	055357695X	300066811	Out of the Shadows: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	3	0	4	N	N	A tad unbelievable	Miranda Knight, not her real name, is sheriff of a small Tennessee town when the locals start turning up dead and mutilated.  When the FBI sends in a team of psychics to help solve the crimes, Miranda comes face to face with her old lover who is part of the team, a man she has hoped never to see again.  Miranda is psychic, too, as are her little sister and one of the victims who had been having visions.  It's an interesting if extremely graphic story, albeit I thought it leaned somewhat too heavily on the psychic angle.	2000-11-12
US	51988066	R2TOZ56LRV7RHJ	0671024248	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A window glancing back	It is said that you can't go home again, but reading this book takes you darn close.  Though a thin supernatural thread runs through the stories comprising the book, the central theme is rites of passage and coming of age amid the social upheaval of the 60's in the shadow of the specter of the Viet Nam war.  The characters are as flesh and bone as any ever created by King.  Their stories cover nearly 700 pages and I still wasn't ready for it to end.  This is a must-read for those of us who grew up in America in the 60's and have brought with us into the 21st century a social conscience and fond memories of great music, bell bottoms, and &quot;sparrow tracks.&quot;	2000-11-12
US	51988066	RCCZ93HNK913L	0553576925	869801684	Hiding in the Shadows: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Keeps You Guessing	When Faith Parker wakes from a long accident-induced coma, she has virtually no memory.  She doesn't even remember her friend, journalist Dinah Leighton, who visited her every day at the hospital and who has now disappeared.  As bits and pieces of Faith's memory gradually return, never mind that they seem to be someone else's memories, it appears that she was helping Dinah with an investigative piece, but the details have been lost.  It also appears that someone was banking on Faith never waking up.  As attempts are made on her life, she turns to Dinah's fiance for help.  But can he be trusted, especially when it becomes apparent that Faith has some sort of psychic connection to the missing Dinah?  This is an elegant little thriller with supernatural overtones, and readily recommended.	2000-11-12
US	51988066	R205X11XM9TF6D	0553581759	26777927	Blind Spot	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Brilliant	I am so excited to discover author Stephanie Kane!  This story about a maverick female lawyer defending a client charged with a grisly murder is legal suspense at its best.  The characters are so three-dimensional that they practically breathe, speak, and leap off the pages.  Adding to the at times almost unbearable suspense is the fact that the murder attorney Jackie Flowers's client is charged with may be only one of a long string of gruesome killings.  The writing is crisp and literate and the plot is filled with twists and turns.  Despite being pretty sure who did what, I was still shocked by the ending.  In short, I loved it!	2000-11-04
US	51988066	R2O9VAL7NFEVT0	0786011440	95144783	Cradle And All	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Major suspense	I had read Mr. Fox's previous novels and was pretty sure I was in for a good read.  I wasn't disappointed.  It may have been a bit overblown but, then, so is Munchausen's Syndrome by Proxy, which is a central theme in this book.  I didn't know who done it until the author chose to reveal the answer, which is exactly what I look for in a good psychological suspense -- heartily recommended to fans of same.	2000-11-04
US	51988066	R1LIWKD359S3KF	0399146253	109258524	The Last Precinct (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Entertaining	This is a continuation of the &quot;Black Notice&quot; story line.  I hated &quot;Black Notice&quot;, but found this sequel eminently more readable and entertaining.  All of the main characters - Scarpetta, Lucy, and Marino - have added to their load of personal problems, and the capture of Chandonne has only exacerbated them.  The suspense moves forward at an even pace as Scarpetta's job and freedom are on the line, and the plot is more believable than the prequel.  Scarpetta remains a favorite character of mine, but she really needs to lighten up!	2000-11-04
US	51988066	R2AP6JAWQHYL59	0965228703	781747596	The Election	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fun look at politics	This book was sent to me gratis with the request that I read and review it.  I should state at the outset that political novels are not usually on my reading list; the last one I read was &quot;Primary Colors.&quot;  I must say, however, that, the minutiae of counting votes notwithstanding, I enjoyed it.  The main premise of the book is the third-party run for the American presidency by preeminent news anchor Michael Edwards.  As with many other characters in this book, I found myself wondering whether he was based on Tom Brokaw, or Dan Rather, or perhaps Peter Jennings.  As the race heats up and Edwards's candidacy gains both credibility and momentum, there are sub-plots of character assassination, outright assassination, pay-offs, intimidation, and the buying of electoral votes.  What struck me most profoundly was the author's assessment of modern &quot;sound-bite elections.&quot;  It's so true -- the American public tends to elect the candidate who is poised, prepped, knows how to deflect the tough questions, and sounds good on TV.  Perish the thought of electing a real person who calls them as he sees them and lets out an occasional epithet.  This is a fun, thought provoking book to read in this election year.	2000-10-15
US	51988066	R3MERHI41ZPI6Z	0965228703	781747596	The Election	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fun look at politics	This book was sent to me gratis with the request that I read and review it.  I should state at the outset that political novels are not usually on my reading list; the last one I read was &quot;Primary Colors.&quot;  I must say, however, that, the minutiae of counting votes notwithstanding, I enjoyed it.  The main premise of the book is the third-party run for the American presidency by preeminent news anchor Michael Edwards.  As with many other characters in this book, I found myself wondering whether he was based on Tom Brokaw, or Dan Rather, or perhaps Peter Jennings.  As the race heats up and Edwards's candidacy gains both credibility and momentum, there are sub-plots of character assassination, outright assassination, pay-offs, intimidation, and the buying of electoral votes.  What struck me most profoundly was the author's assessment of modern &quot;sound-bite elections.&quot;  It's so true -- the American public tends to elect the candidate who is poised, prepped, knows how to deflect the tough questions, and sounds good on TV.  Perish the thought of electing a real person who calls them as he sees them and lets out an occasional epithet.  This is a fun, thought provoking book to read in this election year.	2000-10-15
US	51988066	R1MJBN1LCMNHRN	0965228703	781747596	The Election	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fun look at politics	This book was sent to me gratis with the request that I read and review it.  I should state at the outset that political novels are not usually on my reading list; the last one I read was &quot;Primary Colors.&quot;  I must say, however, that, the minutiae of counting votes notwithstanding, I enjoyed it.  The main premise of the book is the third-party run for the American presidency by preeminent news anchor Michael Edwards.  As with many other characters in this book, I found myself wondering whether he was based on Tom Brokaw, or Dan Rather, or perhaps Peter Jennings.  As the race heats up and Edwards's candidacy gains both credibility and momentum, there are sub-plots of character assassination, outright assassination, pay-offs, intimidation, and the buying of electoral votes.  What struck me most profoundly was the author's assessment of modern &quot;sound-bite elections.&quot;  It's so true -- the American public tends to elect the candidate who is poised, prepped, knows how to deflect the tough questions, and sounds good on TV.  Perish the thought of electing a real person who calls them as he sees them and lets out an occasional epithet.  This is a fun, thought provoking book to read in this election year.	2000-10-15
US	51988066	R1ODJQ7DMTODVE	0553577506	156979263	That's Not My Name	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Masterful	Nola has been married to Alec for some three months when she is abducted from a parking lot by Jesse.  Jesse is convinced that she is his supposedly dead wife, Stacey, who died ... some three months ago; except that Jesse never saw her in her coffin.  As Nola tries to make Jesse see that she can't possibly be his wife, she is nonplussed at how familiar Stacey's things seem to her.  She is shocked speechless when she sees photos of Stacey and realizes that she is looking at what appears to be her own face.  The suspense of this excellent, faintly noir novel is relentless as the police search for Nola continues even as she begins to doubt her own identity and past.  Jesse is a bizarre character who treats Nola with love and respect but locks her in when he leaves the house.  Nola is horrified to discover that her abduction was not a spontaneous event; rather, Jesse quit his job and stalked her for months.  After constant what if's, maybes, and I'll bet it was this, that, or the other, I was more than ready for all to be revealed in the end.  I was a bit taken aback by the epilogue, however -- totally unexpected.	2000-09-21
US	51988066	R3B013P6LI7PET	0609804138	849376137	The Sweet Potato Queens' Book of Love: A Fallen Southern Belle's Look at Love, Life, Men, Marriage, and Being Prepared	Books	5	82	86	N	N	Sometimes More is More	Gently reared females are taught that less is more.  But females also know  that rules were made to be broken, and sometimes you've just got to let  your hair down, tease it up, buy yourself a tiara, and strut your stuff in  sequins because ... more is so much better!<br />The Sweet Potato Queens break  all the rules with an earthy joie de vivre that is hysterical to read.  Since nobody is going to do it for you, appoint yourself the queen of  whatever, stock up on comfort food, and read this book.  From majorette  boots and white girls and suntans to men who may need killing and  zippity-doo-dah, I hooted like a loon.  I was raised to be prepared, but I  never thought of pocket hams.  I loved the possum story and the recipes for  Chocolate Stuff and Fat Mama's Knock You Naked Margaritas, but my favorite  was the one about the mixing bowl.  You may not want your mama, if she's  prissy, to be reading about making The Promise in spikes and trashy  lingerie, but women of a certain age will bust a gut laughing.  This is by  far the funniest book I've read this year and, believe me, I'll read it  again next time I get the blues.	2000-09-18
US	51988066	R3BGK9487CLZ2R	0060196246	648069616	Wild Justice	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wickedly Machiavellian	(Originally submitted 09/01/00)<br />When Dr. Vincent Cardoni is charged with  a series of sadistic, gruesome murders, he hires attorneys Frank Jaffe and  his daughter Amanda Jaffe to prove that he was set up by his wife, Dr.  Justine Castle.  After Detective Bobby Vasquez is forced to admit in court  that he illegally obtained evidence, Cardoni is set free and promptly  disappears.  It is Amanda who is set up to find Cardoni's severed hand,  compelling evidence that he is dead.  But is he?  Four years later, another  killing field is discovered, the setting and the condition of the bodies  eerily similar to the crimes attributed to Cardoni.  This time, Justine  Castle is arrested and relies on Amanda to clear her by proving that  Cardoni is alive and set her up.  Did he set her up?  Did she set him up?  Did someone else set them both up?  The tension and suspense are palpable  as this blood-curdling chiller races toward its final chapter.  This one  could keep an aficionado up all night.	2000-09-09
US	51988066	R2WFMC0RS44XHH	0553575538	65222879	Stealing Shadows: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Spooky Stuff	Cassie Neill is a psychic who makes a mistake while helping the L.A.  police try to catch a killer.  Her mistake results in the death of a child,  for which Cassie blames herself.  When her aunt dies and leaves her a house  in Ryan's Bluff, North Carolina, Cassie moves in, hoping to distance  herself from police work and notoriety.  Her hopes are dashed, however,  when she inadvertently enters the mind of a killer and &quot;sees&quot; his  horrifying plans.  Intent on stopping the murder before it happens, she  goes to Sheriff Matt Dunbar, who doesn't believe her, and then to the local  prosecutor, Ben Ryan.  Ben is skeptical but willing to listen with an open  mind.  Ben not only becomes a believer when the first body turns up, but  becomes Cassie's defender when his friend the sheriff is openly suspicious  of her.  As the killer becomes bolder, the danger to Cassie escalates as  the sheriff learns to trust her and rely on her for clues to the killer's  identity.  This chilling page-turner is scary as all get-out, and I will  definitely be looking for more of Kay Hooper's books.	2000-09-01
US	51988066	R35T5ZJEQUJ9YS	055358006X	701522620	Dreams in the Key of Blue	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Seriously Scary	Forensic psychiatrist Lucas Frank has come out of his self-imposed  retirement to teach a course on serial violence at the college in Ragged  Harbor, Maine.  The farthest thing from his mind is getting involved again  in the profiling and tracking of a serial killer.  But his work is cut out  for him when the 3 female students who had given him an impromptu welcoming  party at his home are murdered in their rooms as they slept.  The college  is heavily funded by the mysterious Martin International, though no one has  ever seen its elusive CEO, Melanie Martin.  As Lucas works with local law  enforcement on the student murders, other people are systematically  murdered, all of whom had some link to Martin International.  Lucas's  investigation leads him directly to an old lover of his who is living in  Ragged Harbor.  The mentally ill Katrina Dorman was once married to one of  the murder victims, the one whose body was torn literally apart.  Katrina  has a daughter, Lily, who might have information about the killings -- if  only she could be found.  And Lucas particularly wants to locate her when  Katrina admits that she told Lily that Lucas was her father.  As the  victims keep falling and the list of suspects grows, the state police  liaison officer insists on putting Lucas at the head of the list.<br />The  pace is positively breakneck as the killer plays cat and mouse with Lucas  and intends to make him the final victim.  This is a fascinating,  intelligent glimpse into psychopathy written by a former forensic  psychologist and profiler who obviously knows his subject well.  The  writing is top-notch and the sheer suspense will keep you turning pages all  the way to the stunning conclusion.	2000-08-31
US	51988066	R1PGVKUW359TAC	0553106341	334109426	Dust to Dust	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Superior Suspense	With each new book, Tami Hoag enhances her growing reputation as a suspense writer.  This one begins with the apparent suicide of Andy Fallon,  a Minneapolis Internal Affairs cop.  Homicide detectives Sam Kovac and  Nikki Liska aren't buying the suicide by accident ruling, however, after  finding too many loose ends, especially after Fallon's father, a disabled  cop shot on the job 20 years before, also ostensibly commits suicide the  morning of the funeral.  When Kovac and Liska discover that young Fallon  had been digging into the murder of another officer the night his father  was shot and rendered paraplegic 20 years ago, they follow the clues, often  in direct contradiction of their orders, which seem to lead directly to one  of the shining stars in the Department.  This is a sophisticated, intensely  fast-paced story of murder, intrigue, and suspense.	2000-08-30
US	51988066	RRNAXE4BQN2MJ	0385332777	43714370	Move to Strike	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Deliciously Thrilling!	On the same night her cousin Chris is killed in a plane crash, 16-year-old  Nikki Zack's uncle Bill, Chris's father, is savagely murdered.  When Lake  Tahoe attorney Nina Reilly's young son begs her to help his friend Nikki  when she's charged with her uncle's murder, it isn't long before Nina is  convinced that the girl is innocent but may be protecting someone else.  Nikki admits to being on her uncle's property the night of his death, and  reluctantly admits to stealing something from him though she won't say what  -- and refuses to say whether she saw someone else at the house.  As Nina  works diligently to clear her young client with the help of her  investigator and erstwhile lover Paul van Wagoner, she is bemused by and  suspicious of Nikki's irresponsible mother, Daria.  She sets Paul to work  verifying the alibi of Beth, Daria's sister and Bill's widow, who is paying  Nina's fees.  The story told by an opal prospector with a claim next to  Bill and Beth's doesn't quite add up, and Paul and Nina are more convinced  as time goes by that Chris's plane crash was no accident.  But was there  any connection to his father's murder?  The mechanic who serviced the plane  before takeoff has disappeared, and so has Nikki's father who hasn't been  heard from in 6 years.  The mystery and suspense are unrelenting in what  may well be the O'Shaughnessys' best book yet.	2000-08-30
US	51988066	RQNEHEY2UHX3Y	0684859718	666165371	Deadly Decisions	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A peek at the underbelly...	In this newest Temperance Brennan novel, the forensic anthropologist  stumbles across the bones of a young woman while exhuming victims of a  motorcycle gang war in Montreal.  While this books provides a troubling  glimpse into the world of motorcycle gangs, prompted by the death of a  child caught in biker crossfire, the crux of the story revolves around  identifying the buried bones of the young woman and solving her murder.  After traveling to North Carolina to confer with a colleague after  receiving apocryphal information about parts of a body found in Myrtle  Beach, South Carolina, years ago, Tempe is finally able to identify her  mystery victim as 16-year-old Savannah Osprey of North Carolina.  The  question now is, how did some of the girl's bones end up buried in  Montreal?  Matters are complicated when Tempe's love interest is arrested  for criminal activity and her teenage nephew, fascinated with motorcycles  and running with the wrong crowd, arrives unexpectedly for a visit.  Before  long, the bikers are not only killing each other but gunning for Tempe,  too.  This is a well-crafted story, albeit short on plot and filled with  unlikely links and coincidences but, unfortunately, I didn't enjoy it  nearly as much as Ms. Reichs's previous books.	2000-08-30
US	51988066	R2BDVQIWR3ZEU4	0385488440	597135386	Purple Cane Road: A Novel (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Laissez les bon temps rouler!	Sometimes I feel like I simply cannot wait for Burke's latest Robicheaux.  Never, but never have I been disappointed!  &quot;Purple Cane Road&quot;  has it all -- an old murder, and a newer one wherein the female killer is  on death row, never mind that the victim needed killing.  The old murder  was that of Robicheaux's mother and new information on her death falls into  his lap as he searches for anything exculpatory to get Letty Labiche off  death row.  Every lead he follows in search of his mother's killer seems to  lead back to organized crime and dirty cops back in the Big Sleazy.  The  situation isn't helped any by Clete Purcell's falling for Passion Labiche,  sister of Letty.  Passion Labiche.  Do you love it?!  In this book, Clete's  behavior is spiraling increasingly out of control, while Dave Robicheaux  has his own demons to wrestle, not the least of which is his inherent  propensity for violence.  There is a lot of bloodshed as the pieces fall  into place and the perpetrators are brought to one sort of justice or  another.<br />The writing is as always crisp, strong, and poetic, so  descriptive that one can almost smell the blood and sweat and brackish  water and the steamy rain as it falls on a tin roof by a Louisiana bayou.  This is a seamy tale, but another great one, and I absolutely adored it.	2000-08-05
US	51988066	R1I2XN4FB3BXI7	0385495846	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A marked departure	As a great fan of the Elvis Cole series, I wasn't sure how I would like the author's veering off in another direction.  It is indeed a dark  departure but, all in all, I liked it, albeit not as much as The  King.<br />Carol Starkey is a detective with the LAPD, formerly on the bomb  squad until an explosion that killed her lover and almost killed her.  She  drinks too much, smokes too much, is pumped full of attitude, and doesn't  eat much but Tagamet, but she is very good at what she does.  When a bomb  goes off killing the technician trying to disarm it, Carol's investigation  determines that it may have been deliberate murder.  Worse, the bomber  might have been another cop, or it could have been the infamous  assasin-for-hire &quot;Mr. Red&quot;, or it could be a deranged copycat.  What Carol does not know, because a rogue ATF agent pocketed the evidence  for reasons of his own, is that she has become a target of the bomber.  The  pace and the tone are very exciting as Carol races against time and against  the odds to stop a killer.  I definitely want to see Elvis live long and  solve more cases, but I think Carol Starkey may have some more tricks up  her sleeve, too.	2000-08-05
US	51988066	R3826FDXPEVNHV	0060183578	264001180	American Pie	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Sibling Rivalry, Southern-style	This is the story of the 3 orphaned and very diverse McBroom sisters of Tallulah, Tennessee.  Freddie is a marine biologist living in California,  Eleanor is a middle-aged woman scared of her own shadow, and Jo-Nell is the  promiscuous youngest sister.  The all but agoraphobic Eleanor and Jo-Nell,  who run the doughnut shop founded by their father, live with their  grandmother, Minerva Pray, who is quintessential salt-of-the-earth.  Freddie leaves her vegan husband with his blond assistant in Baja when she  gets word that Jo-Nell's car has been hit by a train.  It's the first time  Freddie has been back to the hated Tallulah in years.  The essence of the  story concerns the reunion of the sisters and their feelings for each other  and the peculiar approach to life by each sibling.  Jo-Nell's behavior is  outrageous; even in the hospital after her devastating accident, she's  having quickies with her doctor.  Freddie's conduct is reprehensible in  other ways; I kept hoping she'd get that big old stick out of her butt.  The most likeable characters were the shabbily treated Dr. Jackson Manning  and poor old Minerva who has the luck of the damned.  There were some  hilarious moments in the book, and some sad ones.  Call me jaded, but I  found it harder to care about most of these characters than many of the  others penned by Ms. West.  I simply didn't warm to this story as much as  &quot;Crazy Ladies&quot; or &quot;She Flew the Coop.&quot;	2000-07-22
US	51988066	R1P2NZCC0076UC	0060926201	434382076	She Flew the Coop: A Novel Concerning Life, Death, Sex and Recipes in Limoges, Louisiana	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Homespun wit and wisdom	This book centered on the womenfolk of 1952 Limoges, Louisiana, will charm the tar out of you while making you think.  There is the doomed Olive Nepper, daughter of Henry and Vangie, ignobly impregnated by the ersatz  Baptist preacher.  And there is the blowsy DeeDee Robichaux, grasping wife  of the paralyzed Renny and mother of the utterly charming and guileless  Billie.  We meet Edith Galliard, Vangie Nepper's widowed sister-in-law who  is a transplanted New York artist, and their busybody neighbor Harriet.  Little Fannie epitomizes innocence and will break your heart.  Sophie  Donnell works as a maid for many of the white ladies in town, most of whom  love and respect her and pray nightly for the death or maiming of her  brutish husband, Burr.<br />When Vangie learns of Henry's sordid affair with  DeeDee Robichaux, she moves out to the cotton plantation she inherited but  which Henry never allowed her to spend a penny of her inherited money on.  It is a joy to watch Vangie reborn at the age of 40, taking a stand for the  first time in her life, learning to drive, modernizing her appearance,  siccing her dog on Henry, and doing what has to be done all by herself.  This book portrays a microcosm of small-town life with all its banality,  sense of community, pettiness, goodness, gossip, and cohesiveness.  It is  as well a tender commentary on new love, old loves, and illicit love.  There is plenty of poetic justice to go around as each woman flies her own  unique coop.<br />The evolutions of Vangie and Sophie were in my opinion the  most powerful.  Each of the pivotal characters reaches deep within herself  in time of crisis to find her strength and courage.  The feminist theme is  subtle in that these women don't burn their bras and swear off men; rather,  they learn to solve their own problems with a little help from God and  their friends.  This novel is rich and funny and irreverent, to say nothing  of chock-full of comfort food recipes.  I was completely captivated and  didn't come up for air 'til I finished it.ptivated and  didn't come up for air 'til I finished it.	2000-07-18
US	51988066	RM3E3DP9V01LM	0804108293	177229232	Crazy Ladies	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Lyrical Lunacy	As this book chronicles the lives of Gussie Hamilton and her eccentric offspring, it is anything but predictable.  Do not make the mistake of thinking, &quot;Mmmm-hmmm, another 'Southern' novel.&quot;<br />Miss Gussie is  a woman of quiet strength and stolid integrity who commits an unspeakable  act as the book opens in 1932 when her daughter Dorothy is an infant.  Dorothy is a peculiar child who bitterly resents the birth of her sister,  Clancy Jane, in 1938.  We follow the girls as they grow and become wives  and mothers themselves with some fairly disastrous results.  Clancy Jane  has disappointed her mother by getting pregnant at 15 and running off with  a boy from the wrong side of the tracks, at the same time giving the  jealous and petty Dorothy ammunition to lord it over her.<br />This is also  the story of Queenie, Gussie's black domestic employee who is an integral  part of the family and more Gussie's best friend than servant.  By the time  the book ends in 1972, Clancy Jane has been a frowsy housewife in New  Orleans and a California hippie, but her daughter Violet has turned out  relatively normal.  The domineering Dorothy, on the other hand, who has  lived for appearances and her position in small-town society, starts losing  it when she can no longer control her 2 children, Mack, a Viet Nam veteran,  and Bitsy, married into the best family in Crystal Falls, Tennessee, and  divorced before her baby is born.<br />The writing is powerfully evocative and  stirringly beautifuly, almost Faulknerian in its intensity.  There were  passages where I laughed out loud and others where I bawled aloud.  This  book is funny and passionate, ironic and wryly witty, bittersweet and  sorrowful, and completely captivating.  I cannot recommend it highly  enough.	2000-07-17
US	51988066	RQ2RPH9QP1A7Q	0786011300	103141379	The Perfect Mother	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Fizzled out early on	Sharon Driver and her husband, Heath, adopted a daughter, Katie, 15 years ago and 3 years ago Sharon gave birth to a son, Liam.  Now Katie's birth mother, Georgette, is looking for her, and the woman ain't right.<br />Sharon  is put upon, Heath is a philanderer, Liam is adorable, and Katie is  troubled by teenage angst.  The storyline builds around Georgette's  insinuation into the Driver family.  She spends big bucks and stacks up  some bodies in her quest to reclaim her daughter, but it's all fairly  predictable and never really builds up a full head of steam.  There's lots  of sex, most of it of the male fantasy variety.  As a thriller, it simply  fell somewhat short.	2000-07-17
US	51988066	R18MHML1HC14UG	0060976845	82289117	Little Altars Everywhere	Books	5	69	73	N	N	Innocence offered up on the altar of madness	I wish that I had read this before its sequel, &quot;Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood.&quot;  With the background on the life of Siddalee Walker and her siblings offered in this fecund tapestry of family dysfunction, I  have a much better understanding of Sidda's &quot;whining.&quot;<br />This is  a disturbing tale of a prominent family in small-town Louisiana and the  hidden rot at its core.  Viviane Abbott Walker is a self-centered, immature  woman who would have done better to collect dolls than have living,  breathing children to annihilate.  The best answer the narcissistic Vivi  can come up with to the everyday problems of life is to drown them in  alcohol.  Under its influence, she systematically physically abuses and  emotionally batters her children, indelibly damaging them for life.  Her  weak husband's solution to the domestic battlefield is to flee to his  hunting camp for days on end and drink himself into oblivion.  This  bittersweet novel was excruciatingly painful to read, but I wouldn't have  missed it for the world.<br />There were divinely funny moments interspersed  with heartbreaking passages that make one so angry you forget that this is  fiction.  I suspect that many of us can identify with key issues of this  profoundly touching novel.  I know I did.  This is one of those rare jewels  whose lessons to live by can change your life.	2000-07-17
US	51988066	RAHUOFUK1CJ0M	0451200152	728640065	The Town	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Scary?  Not!	Having read Bentley Little's previous works and having been chilled to the  bone by &quot;The Store&quot;, it was with great anticipation that I  started &quot;The Town.&quot;  I kept reading and, having paid good money  for the book, kept on reading.  And I kept wondering, when is something  interesting going to happen?  To any reader looking for a spooky,  fast-paced horror story that will make you keep the lights on at night, I  recommend that you choose another book.  This one was just flat, lackluster  and, ultimately, boring.	2000-07-09
US	51988066	RYLQLPCZ1N1YM	0671034243	291909852	Blind Spot	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Tautly thrilling	When TV journalist Ariel Gold's friend, Laya, is blinded after using a  bottle of eye drops, LAPD thinks it's a case of random product tampering.  Ariel, however, is not convinced, especially after hearing Laya's story of  surreptitiously witnessing a brutal beating from which the victim died.  Ariel is almost afraid to tell Laya that the one witness who cooperated  with the police has herself been murdered while Laya was hospitalized.  As  Ariel delves deeper into the facts of Laya's case, she can't help but  wonder whether there isn't some link to a letter Ariel has received from a  woman hinting at yet another murder.  Trouble is, Ariel, who is an  amnesiac, can't remember the letter writer.  By the time she figures out  the lady's identity, that lady, too, is dead.  This story is delightfully  well developed, including information on the breeding and training of guide  dogs for the blind.  The plot is pleasingly plump and the characters well  defined, blending together to make a taut and satisfying mystery.	2000-07-08
US	51988066	RZAX1CJH7IKWW	0525945423	226975853	Suspicion of Malice	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Summer Sizzler	After Miami attorney Gail Connor's breakup with Anthony Quintana, she  concentrates her energies on building up her law practice.  While her  practice is concentrated chiefly on civil matters, she can't say no when  Anthony's teenage daughter begs her to help her boyfriend, a young man from  the wrong side of the tracks accused of murdering the heir to a  ship-building fortune.  It doesn't help that Anthony not only disapproves  of the young man, but represents a potential alibi witness who doesn't want  to testify.  Further complicating matters for Gail is her secret pregnancy.  The character and story-line development is strong and exciting as Gail  and Anthony work, often at loggerheads, to unravel the mystery and unmask a  killer.  Will Gail and Anthony get back together as a couple?  Read the  book, because I'm not telling!	2000-07-08
US	51988066	R3UX7JOF3H7GX4	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Bad Boys, Big Dogs, and Belly Laughs	Someone has shot Homer Ramos in his father's office building and then set the building on fire.  He was one bad hombre and won't be terribly missed in the community.  Trouble is, there's a security tape showing the  delectable Ranger as the last person out of the building and the cops are  looking for him.  Jersey bounty hunter Stephanie Plum needs to find Ranger  fast, for both professional and personal reasons.  While Stephanie is busy  looking for Ranger, her Grandma Mazur moves in with her.  Granny's taking  driving lessons and the proud owner of a red 'Vette bought at a &quot;fire  sale.&quot;  She's still toting her .45 in her purse and is as big a hoot  as ever.  Between Granny's snoring, arch-rival Joyce's hounding her,  Ranger's midnight break-ins, and Morelli's passionate proximity, Stephanie  isn't getting a lot of sleep and a regular job at McDonald's is starting to  look pretty good to her.  To further complicate matters, Stephanie's being  tailed everywhere she goes by two goons who work for a man who thinks  Ranger has something that belongs to him and that Stephanie will lead him  to Ranger.<br />Lula and Connie are back in &quot;Hot Six&quot;, plus Bob, the  dog Stephanie has inadvertently acquired.  Bob is a loveable idiot who I  hope sticks around.  All of these volatile characters combust right off the  pages in an explosion of lunacy and laughs which is just sheer delight to  read.  I laughed out loud 'til my stomach hurt!  The mystery gets solved  and Stephanie escapes immolation by the seat of her pants; alas, another  couple of her cars aren't so fortunate.  Stephanie proves once again that  she can get the job done, but her love life is as schizo as ever.  Evanovich just keeps getting better and better.  Bravo!	2000-06-27
US	51988066	R4G47UY76ERAP	0440235812	489170740	A Criminal Appeal	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Shining Debut!	As the author reminds the reader throughout this excellent story, Nora Lumsey is a big-boned woman, and proud of it.  She is farm-bred, drives a  pickup truck, 26 years old and just out of law school, and lives alone in  Indianapolis where she doesn't know a soul.  Her job is a plum for any  recent law school grad -- law clerk to a judge on the state's Court of  Appeals.<br />As this book begins, Nora is assigned to write the opinion  denying a poignant, handwritten appeal and affirming the conviction of  10-year-old Dexter Hinton.  Dexter, who is deaf, confessed to the murder of  an elderly woman and was convicted and sentenced to 55 years, but there  were problems with the confession and Dexter and his grandfather now want  to &quot;take it back.&quot;  Once Nora starts wading through the  transcripts and case file, she becomes convinced that Dexter's conviction  should be overturned, but her judge is adamant that the conviction will  stand.<br />Nora is a young woman of uncommon principle, integrity, and  ethics, so even she is surprised to find herself emotionally and personally  involved in the case.  Moreover, she has never known a black person before  and getting to know this black child and his family comes as something of  an epiphany to her.  When she learns that Dexter's grandfather is her  neighbor, she gets sucked even deeper into surreptitiously investigating  the case and searching for the truth, knowing all the while that what she's  doing could get her fired.  &quot;The system&quot; alone does not satisfy  Nora.  She is a person who believes deeply in justice and the incumbency of  all who serve it to seek the whole truth.  When Nora and her new friend and  ally, Owedia, who is Dexter's former teacher, start asking questions in  dark and dangerous quarters and irritating some ruthless and powerful  people, disbarment begins to look like the least of Nora's worries.<br />This  book knowledgeably examines such issues as justice and the seemingly  assinine complexities of appellate law, politics, race, religion, and gang  violence with great insight while at the same time plotting a highly  suspenseful mystery with a thought-provoking ending.  Nora Lumsey is a  down-to-earth, very realistic, and all around wonderful character.  Could  it be that this big-boned young warrior symbolizes Lady Justice herself?  I'm looking forward to seeing what kind of mess Nora gets herself into  next.nine complexities of appellate law, politics, race, religion, and gang  violence with great insight while at the same time plotting a highly  suspenseful mystery with a thought-provoking ending.  Nora Lumsey is a  down-to-earth, very realistic, and all around wonderful character.  Could  it be that this big-boned young warrior symbolizes Lady Justice herself?   I'm looking forward to seeing what kind of mess Nora gets herself into  next.	2000-06-22
US	51988066	R34NOV0QBUITD	0345433297	38926947	Nightshade	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Psychological suspense with a supernatural flavor	Joan Hapgood has a cozy, comfortable life at Hapgood Farm withher husband Bill and son Matt (from a previous relationship).  That is, until the day her aging and increasingly senile mother, Emily Moore, sets her house on fire and Joan brings her to live at the farm. Emily is the mother from hell and makes life [extremely] intolerable for Joan's family.  .... The psychological suspense is unrelenting as John Saul leads the reader through a tangle of fractured relationships, unearthly jealousy, repercussions of child abuse, fragile egos, and injured psyches held together with blood revenge.  It becomes pretty clear in the last quarter of the book what's going on, but the ending will still sucker-punch you.  There aren't many books I feel compelled to finish the same day I start them.  This was one of them.	2000-06-17
US	51988066	R3JPO4Q8JIXEEB	0553800914	996234195	The Search (Eve Duncan)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Action-packed	This book begins with billionaire John Logan coercing Sarah Patrick into flying to South America with her search and rescue dog, Monty, to hunt for Rudzak, a sadistic killer bent on revenge against Logan.  Rudzak has  attacked one of Logan's research facilities and it is imperative that he be  located before more people are killed.  By bringing Sarah into the search,  however, Logan unwittingly marks her as the killer's next target.  When the  South American mission fails to net Rudzak, the search moves back to the  States in hopes of anticipating Rudzak's next move and stopping him in time  to prevent more bloodshed.<br />Sarah, a woman of strength, principle, and  courage, acquits herself with aplomb in this fast-paced thriller.  Monty  the Golden Retriever is a pivotal character with an equally courageous role  to play in the race to derail Rudzak.  What a sweetheart!  Note to Eve  Duncan fans:  she appears only peripherally in this story.  As Logan and  Sarah race toward the exciting conclusion, the adrenaline is sweetened by  the growing attraction between these two diverse personalities.  This was a  great book to curl up with on a rainy night.	2000-06-16
US	51988066	R1T9JVGZ2UPMXP	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Ya-Ya gris-gris	Family is a cross most of us have to bear.  We can't choose which set of relatives we're plopped down in the midst of to either sink or swim.  Some of us are compelled to raise our adult selves to be the people we always  meant to be.  If we are very, very lucky, we will have a collection of  Ya-Ya's to help us along the way.<br />This book, as it explores the tortured  relationship between the reserved Siddalee Walker and her flighty,  melodramatic mother Vivi Abbott Walker, is pure magic.  The Ya-Ya  Sisterhood are Vivi and her 3 best friends from childhood in their small  Louisiana town, whose children are known as the petites ya-ya's.  Sidda,  now a New York theatre director, spends a small fortune on therapy before  perusing her mother's old scrapbook titled Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya  Sisterhood and discovering the strength and insight to make sense of not  only her own life but her mother's.<br />The Ya-Ya sisterhood -- Vivi, Necie,  Caro, and Teensy -- have remained as close and loving with each other as  many blood sisters for over half a century.  When Sidda at age 40 is having  something of a mid-life crisis and postpones her wedding because she is  convinced she doesn't know how to love, it is the Ya-Ya's who travel  cross-country to support her and give her the ammunition to stand up and  see things the way they are.  Mama Vivi, meanwhile, isn't speaking to her  daughter because of an interview Sidda gave the New York Times which  happened to mention child abuse.  Every word was true, but Vivi has  disowned her.<br />The book chronicles the loves and losses, wisdom and  idiosyncracies, and joys and sorrows which have made the Ya-Ya's and their  children who they are.  You will laugh out loud and you may shed a tear or  two as you follow the journey of these strong and wonderful women who do  things THEIR way.  This is a book best savored -- read a chapter or two,  then put it down and think about it before continuing.  While these  particular Ya-Ya's are Southern, thank God there are Ya-Ya's everywhere!re Southern, thank God there are Ya-Ya's everywhere!	2000-06-14
US	51988066	RNN66N8ZH9EKP	0684855631	430524886	The Empty Chair	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Absolutely Electrifying!	Lincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs have traveled from New York City to northeastern North Carolina so Rhyme can undergo experimental surgery which may improve his condition.  For the uninitiated, Rhyme is a criminalist  rendered quadriplegic by a crime-scene accident and Sachs is his highly  trained assistant and love interest.<br />Upon their arrival in North  Carolina, Rhyme is approached by the local sheriff and asked to assist in  the recent murder of a young man and abduction of two young women.  They  know who did it -- a 16-year-old problem child named Garrett Hanlon, known  to the locals as the Insect Boy.  They need the expertise of Rhyme and  Sachs, however, to help find the women before the boy kills them.  And so  the stage is set for one of the most suspenseful manhunts I have ever  read.<br />Deaver bats the reader back and forth like a tennis ball -- is the  boy guilty, or is he innocent?  Even when Sachs breaks him out of jail  after his capture and subsequent Gestalt-type empty chair therapy and goes  on the run with him, we still don't know.  Rhyme is sure Sachs has lost her  mind, and he's about to lose his as the subterfuge and killing mount,  leaving Sachs facing a long prison sentence if not the death penalty.  There are more twists and turns in this book and more snakes in the grass  than you can shake a stick at.  I'm a long-time Deaver fan but, in my  opinion, this is his best work ever.	2000-06-11
US	51988066	RLOZ0L29EZMIR	0374281947	375817200	Personal Injuries (Scott Turow)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Primo	This is another book that, based on less than glowing reviews, I held off reading 'til now.  I am so sorry I didn't get it hot off the press!<br />The main character, Robbie Feaver, is a high-rolling Personal Injury lawyer with a roving eye and ego to match, a Mercedes, lovely home, and terminally ill wife whom he loves dearly.  All of Robbie's success comes to a screeching halt when the IRS and U. S. Attorney come down hard on him for bribing judges.  Of course, it's the judges the Government really wants, and Robbie has no choice but to become their confidential informant.  The U. S. Attorney running the case is as ruthless as they come, perfectly willing to spend enormous sums of money and force his star witness into increasingly dangerous situations to secure the evidence to get his convictions. ......................Similarly, when it looks like he can't get any more deeply into trouble, he does.  Yet, he is a supremely sympathetic character and I found myself rooting for him all the way, wanting him to find a way out of the hole he'd dug himself into and turn his life around.  This was a complex story with very real, multi-layered, empathetic characters and an all around wonderful read.	2000-06-10
US	51988066	R1KJ77YU71XXXQ	0061057940	245737919	The Rift	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Magnificent!	This is a big, thick, juicy novel filled with adventure, suspense, and human ingenuity.  The premise is &quot;what if&quot; -- what if the New Madrid fault caused the biggest earthquake in recorded history, virtually  destroying a big chunk of the United States from Tennessee to Missouri,  Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana and rerouting the Mississippi  River?<br />There is a wide variety of richly developed characters, each of  whom must cope with the disaster and find a way to survive.  There are  ordinary people, concerned only with providing for their families.  There  are some people completely ill equipped to cope with anything more annoying  than an AmEx glitch, and others who see the destruction and mass confusion  as an opportunity to seize some power and set themselves up as despots.  Nick, an unemployed black engineer, and Jason, a white teenager whose  mother has died in the quake, were my favorite characters.  Jason, who is  traveling by bass boat on the flooded Mississippi, rescues Nick from a  treetop and a strong bond is forged as they travel at great peril from  Missouri to Tennessee and back to Arkansas in search of Nick's family in  this new land of diametrically changed topography and philosopy.  People  who loved the morality play of &quot;The Stand&quot; and the Apocalyptic  adventure of &quot;Lucifer's Hammer&quot; and &quot;Swan Song's&quot;  message of faith and hope will eat this book right up.  Like the  aforementioned books, this is one that I will read again and again.	2000-06-10
US	51988066	R1FZMJ79GLTWJ9	039914613X	323998329	Easy Prey	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Keeps You Guessing	Lucas Davenport's newest case involves the strangulation murder of a young and famous model.  Did her dissolute lifestyle lead to her murder, or was it something as mundane as being in the wrong place at the wrong time?  And  what about her co-corpse, a young woman who worked in a hotel but drove a  Porsche?  Each time Davenport and his colleagues think they have the case  figured out and identify a suspect, the suspect ends up murdered.  The pace  is brisk as the guessing-game intensifies.  Every time I thought I knew  whodunit, there was a new surprise in store.  I recommend that you not  start this book unless you have the time to finish it fairly quickly  because it's a real page turner.  My only complaint is with sloppy editing,  which seems to be a problem in a lot of publishing houses these days.	2000-05-30
US	51988066	R1IQ9KGGNHYGPD	0316690619	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Mother of God	The premise doesn't get much deeper -- evil running amok, End Times events going on all over the world, and the promise of the imminent birth of a holy child born of a virgin.  The only problem is, there are two virgins  pregnant at the same time, 16-year-old Kathleen in the US and 14-year-old  Colleen in Ireland.  The Church has sent investigators and doctors to check  out the claims of both girls, including Anne, an ex-nun turned PI, and  Father Justin, the man she loves but can't acknowledge.<br />This is a serious  topic, fertile ground for a deep, convoluted story incorporating allegory  and parable, lessons and warnings, and sin, faith, and salvation.  Thus, I  was disappointed with the short, almost trite treatment of such Apocalyptic  material.  There was too much potential here which seemed glossed over in  an almost cavalier fashion.  Also, a lot of pivotal questions were left  unanswered, such as why on earth one of the virgins was surrounded by a  plethora of supernatural events in light of the deus ex machina ending.  Much in this world must be taken on faith, but this did little to reinforce  mine.  I believe I will stick to the tried and true Alex Cross series in  the future.	2000-05-27
US	51988066	R22RAPN5CO18WX	0399145664	105065636	Family Honor	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Utterly delightful!	This is not Spenser having a gender identity crisis.  What this is, is what I hope is only the first book of a whole new series.<br />Meet Sunny Randall, a tough but feminine Boston PI with an artistic soul and a  Mob-connected ex-husband who she still loves but can't live with.  Sunny  has a great loft, a charming dog-child named Rosie with whom I am  completely infatuated, and a fearless gay pal named Spike who not only  cooks but rides shotgun when necessary.  When Sunny is hired by wealthy,  jaded, ultra-snobbish Brock and Betty Patton to find their 15-year-old  runaway daughter Millicent, it doesn't take her long to locate the child on  the mean streets of Boston and liberate her from her pimp.  But until the  question of why Millicent chose to flee the known, i.e., a mansion with  staff and all the amenities, for the harsh and ugly unknown is answered,  Sunny has no intention of relinquishing the girl to her parents.  Millicent  isn't talking aside from refusing to set foot back in her parents' home.  Sunny takes the girl home with her to think things through, but it isn't  long before two armed thugs show up at her door, compelling Sunny to  dispatch one of them with a shotgun.  Sunny is forced to move in  temporarily with Spike to ensure Millicent's safety while she tries to  figure out who wants the girl dead and why.<br />This book is not only a  first-rate detective story, but is replete with themes of the effects of  love, betrayal, loss, friendship, and forgiveness on the human (and canine)  heart.<br />Sunny Randall is as earnest and hardworking as Anna Pigeon and  Kinsey Milhone, though she dresses better; as tough and straightforward as  Kat Colorado and V. I. Warshawski; and as funny as Stephanie Plum and  Carlotta Carlyle.  She's a bright and welcome new star in the female  detective arena.  Please, Mr. Parker -- give us more!	2000-05-24
US	51988066	R2ORUF8IJMA3CR	0786866004	547917110	Red Light (Merci Rayborn)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	No More Merci	I thought that in light of my fondness for T. Jefferson Parker's past novels if I just kept reading this one I would like it more, but it just didn't happen.  Merci Rayborn is an ambitious, single-mom cop assigned to  investigate the murder of a young call girl, Aubrey Whittaker.  Merci's  boyfriend and fellow cop, Mike McNally, soon emerges as the #1 suspect.  Merci's partner, Paul Zamorra, is a man of ridiculously few words, never  mind that he is preoccupied with a dying wife.  There is something to be  said for the strong, silent type, but these people are as silent as zombies  -- and about as animated.  Merci is working simultaneously with Aubrey's  case a 30-year-old cold case involving the murder of a young prostitute.  The two cases intertwine with overtones of the common thread of police  corruption, and Merci's methodical approach to solving both cases is  interesting to watch unfold.  We are given a great deal of insight into  Merci's past and the personal losses she has suffered.  While I found her  lacking in warmth and likeability, she is a good cop.  Still, her  cold-blooded approach to building a case against her ostensible lover left  me with a bad taste in my mouth.  I found it impossible to empathize  overmuch with any of the characters with the exception of Aubrey, and  equally impossible to like them.  About the best that can be said of Merci,  et al., is that they get the job done.	2000-05-22
US	51988066	R3L6I7QUHGH93H	0786863706	871273294	The Job	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Near-death of a salesman	Ned Allen is a 30ish, very ambitious New Yorker who, after a series of dead-end jobs, has finally found his niche in advertising sales.  He has a stylish wife, stylish apartment, and stylish lifestyle, all of which keeps  him living above his means and robbing the proverbial Peter to pay Paul.  With his year-end bonus, though, he can pay off this year's debt and start  anew accruing next year's.  Then, with no warning, his company is bought by  foreign interests and, because of a humongous misunderstanding and Ned's  precipitous assault on a superior, he is not only fired but rendered  virtually unemployable.  Eventually, he takes a $5.00 an hour telemarketing  job out of sheer desperation.  While his wife is away on business, Ned  spends a drunken night with a former co-worker after the funeral of another  former colleague.  Ned's wife unexpectedly returns home at the same time he  stumbles into their apartment the next morning, and unceremoniously throws  him out.<br />Now homeless, and penniless since he lost his job for taking  time off for the funeral, Ned turns to Jerry, an old friend from his  hometown who now works for multi-millionaire Jack Ballantine.  Jerry not  only allows Ned to move in with him, but offers him a job with Ballantine  Industries overseeing a new subsidiary, the Excalibur private equity fund.  The only catch is, Ned must never breathe a word of Ballantine's  affiliation with the fund.  And then comes a night when Ned is set up to  not only witness a business enemy's murder, but to become the only logical  suspect.  Jerry provides Ned with a false alibi but, from then on, Ned must  dance to Jerry's dark and dangerous tunes.  When Ned's job devolves from  fund executive to courier of cash deposits to a Bahamian bank, Ned must  call up what few resources are available to him and enlist the aid of the  pitifully few friends he has left to survive long enough to come up with a  plan to expose the Excalibur fund and prove his innocence in the murder  before the police close in on him.  Douglas Kennedy imbues Ned with amazing  resiliency and ingenuity and it waas a genuine pleasure to watch Ned  extricate himself from one impossible situation after another and redeem  himself at the same time.  I'm just sorry it took me so long to get around  to reading this!murder  before the police close in on him.  Douglas Kennedy imbues Ned with amazing  resiliency and ingenuity and it waas a genuine pleasure to watch Ned  extricate himself from one impossible situation after another and redeem  himself at the same time.  I'm just sorry it took me so long to get around  to reading this!	2000-05-22
US	51988066	RC50LZM6RW8G4	0553295977	737734239	Carnal Innocence	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Guilty pleasure	I generally avoid Romance novels -- and wouldn't normally rate one this highly -- but this one was recommended on the basis of its mystery/suspense elements and, I must say, it was a guilty pleasure!<br />Innocence,  Mississippi, where celebrated concert violinist Caroline Waverly has come  for a rest at the home inherited from her grandparents, has a serial killer  on the loose.  One of the first people she meets is neighbor Tucker  Longstreet -- impossibly gorgeous, improbably indolent, wickedly charming,  and who just happens to be on the sheriff's list of suspects since he had  dated all of the murder victims.  Naturally, sparks fly between Caroline  and Tucker and, predictably, she detests him at first but nonetheless finds  herself drawn to him.  Things heat up when the deranged father of one of  the murdered women shoots up Caroline's house with her and Tucker in it.  The characters are extraordinarily three-dimensional and quite likeable,  particularly Tucker's visiting cousin Lulu, a geriatric firecracker.  Ms.  Roberts's portrayal of Southern customs and small-town mores is impeccable.  As more women die in Innocence, Caroline's feelings toward Tucker  gradually change from suspicion and distrust to support in the face of his  interrogation by the FBI.  He can't be a killer -- she's falling in love  with him.  There is, of course, the requisite romance and sex, but the  level of suspense continually mounts and builds to a shattering  freight-train of a climax.  All I will say is that the unexpected ending  completely blew me away.	2000-05-16
US	51988066	R3K96Q3ZNFHNPO	0451199960	826374705	The Alternate	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Juries ARE unpredictable	As &quot;courtroom thrillers&quot; go, this one is well written, skillfully constructed, and interesting enough to read through to the end even though you have a fairly good idea early on what happened and  whodunit.  The lawyers involved, defense attorney Barrett Dickson and ADA  Grace Harris, are well fleshed out on a personal level and realistically  depicted insofar as their knowledge of the law and trial tactics.  Thus,  it's pretty out there that neither of them picks up any warning signals  from crazed alternate juror Amanda Keller.  Ms. Keller is a psychotic  former soap opera actress who would have jumped through fiery hoops to get  seated on the jury in the murder trial of Elliot Ashford and ensure his  conviction and execution.  As jurors resign, fall ill, disappear, and get  murdered, Amanda Keller ultimately achieves her goal of regular juror, and  her subsequent appearance as a star witness kindles her triumphant return  to Hollywood.  Although the reader is given some insights into her motives  regarding the DA and other objects of her mad fascination, the question of  why she was from the very first newspaper reports obsessed with this  particular case is not answered.  While the American jury system is  arguably flawed, this scenario was too far over the top to ring remotely  plausible.	2000-05-16
US	51988066	R2ESAU4DCWOJ17	0553576917	846483733	Whose Little Girl are You?	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Taut and satisfying	Jaye Garrett is a successful, independent woman prosperous at her work and content with her life in Boston ... until she gets the kind of phone call that everyone dreads.  Her brother, Patrick, is lying in a Belgian hospital  bed, diagnosed with leukemia and dependent upon a bone marrow transplant  for survival.  Jaye rushes  to her mother's home, not only to offer comfort  to her mother with whom she has a strained relationship, but to get more  detailed information about Patrick's condition and location because, of  course, she must fly immediately to Belgium and be tested as a potential  marrow donor.<br />Jaye is completely stunned and shattered when her mother,  Nona, informs her that both she and Patrick were adopted, two years apart.  There is, thus, no chance that Jaye's marrow would be a match for Patrick,  but Nona has a possible solution.  She begs Jaye to travel to Cawdor,  Oklahoma, where both Jaye and Patrick were born at a clinic run by Dr.  Roland Hunsinger, whose lucrative sideline was selling illegitimate babies.  If Jaye can locate the records which will lead her to Patrick's blood  relatives, then he might have a chance to live.  Although Jaye is shocked  to learn of her adoption and repulsed that her parents bought her and her  brother, she has little choice but to undertake the quest for Patrick's  sake.<br />Cawdor turns out to be a spooky, Godforsaken place populated by  tight-lipped, unfriendly people who show no inclination to render any  assistance to Jaye.  It seems that Dr. Hunsinger has been somehow  incapacitated -- no one in town seems to know whether he had a stroke or an  accident or exactly what his problem is or, if they do, they aren't  talking.  The former clinic is now a nursing home where, Jaye is tersely  informed, there are certainly no adoption records.  Soon after her arrival  in town, she is contacted by Philadelphia lawyer Turner Gibson who says he  has also come to Cawdor in search of information about an adopted child.  Turner persuades Jaye to join forces with him and, while she realizes that  two heads are better than one and may open more doors, she doesn't quite  trust him.  Indeed, Turner has a hidden agenda.  But is he friend or foe?  Jaye will find out fast enough as the two of them follow leads, get shot  at, stalked, extorted, burned, kidnapped, and lose a witness to murder.  The action is intense as this thriller races toward its conclusion.  I  loved it!d.   Turner persuades Jaye to join forces with him and, while she realizes that  two heads are better than one and may open more doors, she doesn't quite  trust him.  Indeed, Turner has a hidden agenda.  But is he friend or foe?   Jaye will find out fast enough as the two of them follow leads, get shot  at, stalked, extorted, burned, kidnapped, and lose a witness to murder.   The action is intense as this thriller races toward its conclusion.  I  loved it!	2000-05-15
US	51988066	RYDUGP7MW3HKO	0380730367	240949428	Prayers for Rain (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dennis Lehane Rules!	When Karen Nichols hired Boston PI Patrick Kenzie about a problem with a stalker, his impression of her was that of a wholesome, wide-eyed, corn-fed Mary Poppins clone.  Patrick solves her problem, gets paid, and thinks  little more about her 'til she ends up an ostensible suicide.  But what on  earth was Mary Poppins doing stoned out of her head and hooking out of a  seedy motel?  As Patrick pokes around a bit and meets her exceedingly weird  family, he learns that Karen had been the victim of an unholy run of bad  luck over the last months of her life, bad luck which appears to have been  carefully orchestrated by some unseen puppetmaster.  He has no client, ergo  no fees, but Patrick feels compelled to find out what happened.  As his  non-case gets progessively more bizarre, to say nothing of dangerous,  Patrick's erstwhile partner and lover, Angela Gennaro, joins forces with  him.  Add to this volatile mix psycho-teddybear Bubba Ragowski and the bad  guy is about to have a major hurt put on him -- if they can find him before  he destroys them.  The villain in this story is one of the slipperiest,  most evil characters seen in recent fiction.  This is a true nail-biter and  is guaranteed to induce chills and thrills as the chase to stop the evil  proceeds at a breakneck pace.  The suspense level is in the red zone.  There is violence, some of it graphic, but such is the nature of this  genre.  There is a noir ambience to this book and, like all of Lehane's  novels, it sparkles because the grit and the wit are presented in a  stylish, literary fashion that is a pure joy to read.  The novels of Dennis  Lehane are gifts -- indulge yourself!	2000-05-05
US	51988066	RK2GT4BQVRA9J	0684835983	728320796	Before I Say Good-Bye	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Ms. Clark Delivers Again	Politically ambitious columnist Nell McDermott's world is shattered when her husband, Adam Cauliff, is killed along with four other people in a boat explosion.  The slightly psychic Nell lost her parents at a young age, but took comfort in the fact that they appeared to her moments after their  deaths to say goodbye, as did her grandmother before them.  Thus, Nell is  devastated that she had no similar visitation from Adam and is consumed  with guilt that they had quarreled the last time she saw him.<br />As the  police investigate the boat explosion and it becomes clear that it was no  accident, Nell begins to learn bit by bit that Adam may have been involved  in bid-rigging and illegal real estate deals.  When the widow of another  victim comes to Nell with the news that she has discovered $50,000 in cash  hidden in her basement, the two women know that something sinister has  happened.  The question is, what, and who?  Nell's determination to find  the answers includes visits to a psychic and to the infirm mother of the  female boating victim, Winifred.  When a key to a safe deposit box turns up  among Winifred's effects and Nell discovers its mate in Adam's jacket  pocket, there is no turning back, particularly when a child who witnessed  the explosion comes forward to say he saw someone dive from the boat before  it exploded.  Who planted the bomb?  Who paid off Jimmy Ryan, and why?  Did  someone survive the explosion and, if so, who and where is that  person?<br />Nell has no qualms about placing herself in danger's path to find  out the truth, even if it means learning that she didn't know Adam as well  as she thought she had.  Assistance and comfort arrive in the person of Dr.  Dan Minor, whose long-lost mother, it seems, may have been another homicide  victim directly linked to the boating deaths.  The ending is vintage Mary  Higgins Clark!  My only complaint, and this is no biggie, is that  32-year-old Nell tends, in many respects, to speak and behave like a woman  twice her age.  Could be I'm just jaded.  In any event, this is a classic  MHC yarn and well worth spending an evening with.a woman  twice her age.  Could be I'm just jaded.  In any event, this is a classic  MHC yarn and well worth spending an evening with.	2000-04-30
US	51988066	R8JNLVU1A2RZY	0399145923	573580919	Carolina Moon	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Spellbinding	Victoria &quot;Tory&quot; Bodeen has come home to Progress, South Carolina, the place of her birth and scene of her worst nightmares.  Her best friend, Hope Lavelle, was murdered in Progress when she was 8 years old and it was Tory who led police to the body.  Tory has psychic visions  and watched the murder in her mind's eye as she lay weeping in her bed  after a particularly brutal beating at the hands of her father.  Tory fled  Progress at the age of 18 and looked back only once, when she went at age  20 to visit her parents.  That visit was cut short when her father,  Hannibal Bodeen, beat Tory up and her mother, Sarabeth, berated Tory for  upsetting him.<br />Now, Tory has come back to be near her beloved  grandmother, put her ghosts behind her, and open a store in town.  The  reserved, ultra-standoffish Tory's motives are twofold:  to guage her own  strength by putting the past behind her, and to unmask Hope's murderer.  As  a tenuous friendship emerges between straight-laced Tory and Hope's wild  and irrepressible twin, Faith, a romance blossoms with handsome Cade  Lavelle.<br />Soon, a young woman in town is murdered and Tory learns that  there have been others over the years, all fitting a pattern of looking  like Hope would have looked had she lived and being killed on or near  Hope's birthday.  All of the signs are pointing to the malevolent, half-mad  Hannibal Bodeen.  When Sarabeth Bodeen is murdered while Hannibal is on the  run from a rape charge, that pretty well clinches his guilt in the minds of  many.  But is it true?  Only after another couple of blood-curdling  confrontations does the full truth emerge.<br />This book plays heavily on the  romance angle, but is also full of mystery and intrigue to satisfy the  suspense aficionado.  Ms. Roberts's writing is strong and evocative;  indeed, she chooses her words to paint South Carolina with the brush of a  master.  The settings feel real, the characters have flesh and bones, and  the dialect rings true.  One word of warning:  this may be a hard read for  victims of child abuse.  All in all, however, this is a spellbinding tale,  superb for whiling away a rainy afternoon.rue.  One word of warning:  this may be a hard read for  victims of child abuse.  All in all, however, this is a spellbinding tale,  superb for whiling away a rainy afternoon.	2000-04-29
US	51988066	R2002PJ9GL7BKG	0451198387	463588156	Suspicion of Betrayal	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Delicious Suspense	Miami attorney Gail Connor is having a run of bad luck in &quot;Suspicion of Betrayal.&quot;  Her new law practice is in trouble, her new house is falling apart, her ex-husband can't pay her back the money she lent him from her trust account to bail him out of a business disaster, and there's  trouble in paradise with fiance Anthony Quintana.  To make matters worse,  Gail begins receiving death threats which escalate into acts of terrorism  directed towards her young daughter.  Could her ex-husband be behind the  threats, engineered to ensure that he gets custody of their child?  Or is  it a client?  If not one of Gail's current clients, could it be one from  the past with a grudge?  Or maybe it's one of the very controlling  Anthony's business associates or family members.  What great fun it was to  find out!  I had a pretty good idea who it was about halfway through the  book, but the writing was good enough and the suspense level high enough to  supersede that.  Miami in all its splendor and squalor is captured in these  vividly descriptive pages.  It's cold here in Virginia but, I swear, I  could almost feel a Miami sweat breaking out.  Although there are a number  of passages in this book when the reader feels like saying to Gail,  &quot;Wise up, girlfriend&quot;, what a great read it made following the  clues to the final harrowing confrontation.	2000-04-27
US	51988066	R2JOHIKEVE1KE2	0671035592	545160764	A Suggestion of Death -0671035592	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Page-Turner and a Keeper	Cinda Hayes is a former Boulder prosecutor now in private practice.  While hosting a radio talk show with an eye toward drumming up some new business, a call comes in from a frightened young woman who believes she may have an  &quot;intimate tort&quot; claim.  The trouble is, 20-year-old Mariah McKay  cannot recall exactly what it is that she believes her father, prominent  Harrison McKay, might have done to her as a child.  Cinda takes on the  fragile, child-like Mariah as a client and tries to help her piece together  her past and make sense of the tenuous bits and pieces of memories she  possesses.  At the same time, Cinda is exposed to a group of  self-proclaimed patriots among whom Mariah lives.  When Cinda begins  receiving threats, it is unclear whether Mariah is the reason for them and  whether the patriots or some unknown menace are the source.  The delightful  Lincoln Tolkien, first introduced in the excellent &quot;Render Up The  Body&quot;, reappears in this novel.  Cinda needs to get her love-life  under control, but I think she's getting there.  The denouement of this  novel is as wrenching and disconcerting as that of &quot;Render Up The  Body.&quot;  Hole up in your jamies with a stash of junk food and read this  in one sitting if possible.	2000-04-26
US	51988066	R481VT7EO1I7T	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Disappointing	A sequel to the excellent &quot;Silence of the Lambs&quot; was eagerly awaited.  Unfortunately, it was a huge let-down.  The Clarice Starling from the former book had strength, integrity, determination, fortitude, and a  working moral compass.  In the latter book, however, Starling has been  reduced to a quivering, mindless idiot with no will of her own who sinks  into a quagmire of debauchery.  Much of &quot;Hannibal&quot; is set in  Italy, and the reader is provided with some insight into the factors which  came into play and exploded to produce a Hannibal Lecter.  Although we  begin to see into the tormented mind of this man, we gain little sympathy  for him.  The writing itself is dark and as dense as a thick fog.  I was  incensed by the ending and thought it did a huge disservice to its  predecessor.  I found it to be forced and contrived and, frankly, I was  insulted by it.  I expected better from the estimable Mr. Harris.	2000-04-15
US	51988066	R376O1C61G8TZ3	0525945385	499799834	Scavenger	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Smokin'!	All I can say about this devilishly clever novel is, Wow!  It punches you in the gut from the get-go and will knock your socks off at the end.  Mark Stevenson, whose family was killed some years before by a serial killer  known as the Family Man, has written a book based on the case.  After the  book comes out, he receives an anonymous letter from someone claiming to  know the identity of the Family Man and sending Mark on a macabre scavenger  hunt.  If Mark can successfully complete the &quot;game&quot;, all will be  revealed ... unless he dies first.  As Mark, following his increasingly  bizarre instructions, criss-crosses the country from New York to D.C. to  New Orleans, L.A., and Chicago, innocent people begin dying around him as  he homes in on the truth.  And yet ... nothing in this delightfully  Machiavellian plot is what it seems.  If you love a well-crafted tale of  creepy suspense, you have to read this!  You absolutely will not be  disppointed.	2000-04-14
US	51988066	R34FEPJSAX0NL2	0786011262	404640970	Monster	Books	5	168	176	N	N	Compelling	I read true crime occasionally out of a need to know what makes these people tick, though I'm not sure that anyone will ever have the answer to that question.  This book details the ghastly crimes of suspected serial  killer Thomas Luther.  Although convicted of only one murder, Luther left a  bloody trail of rapes and assaults, as well as compelling circumstantial  evidence linking him to numerous unsolved murders.  The one victim he was  convicted of killing, Cher Elder, is brought to life in these pages by the  author.  One shudders to think of her last moments in the hands of evil  incarnate.  The woman who loved and stood by Luther, a &quot;psychiatric  nurse&quot; named Debrah Snider, is a complete cypher.  Even after she was  confronted with the chilling and unmistakable evidence of what he was and  what he did, she remained true to her man.  This book, which I made the  mistake of reading while home alone at night, spares few details of the  hideous carnage committed by Luther.  Although I would have liked to see a  chapter on Luther's childhood and the abuse he alleges he suffered, this  book nonetheless gives the reader a fairly comprehensive insight into the  psyche of a monster.	2000-04-09
US	51988066	R1ZSME5BNEKD1Z	0671887955	787739482	The Whole Truth	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Mesmerizing!	Raymond Raintree, an odd looking, oddly behaved young man withno family, no friends, and no history, has been arrested, tried, andconvicted in a Florida court for the senseless murder of a young child.  The pace of this complex and mesmerizing novel only gains momentum from there. Marie Lightfoot, a true crime writer, is instrumental in finding the keys to unlock Raintree's cryptic past. As she delves deeply into the lives of victim, suspect, and those intertwined with them, she begins to suspect that there is more to the case than meets the eye, including an enigmatic link to a little boy who disappeared in Kansas over 20 years ago.  Although you will be repulsed by the creature who is Raymond Raintree, Ms. Pickard will also wring from your depths a profound sympathy for him.  I stayed up late to read this in one night and couldn't stop thinking about it the next day.  This is a masterful piece of story-telling which will stay with you for a long time.  END	2000-04-05
US	51988066	R3KJCMRE9BJX4W	0312865422	509845583	Afterimage (Chris Sinclair)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Top-notch suspense	San Antonio D.A. Chris Sinclair is having a pretty good day 'til he pays a routine visit to the County Forensic Science Center and runs into a forensic reconstructionist carrying the reconstructed head of a murder  victim he's been working on.  The sight of the reconstructed face stops  Chris cold, because she is the spitting image of his college lover, Jean  Fitzgerald.  Of course, it can't be Jean, since the expert explains to  Chris that the victim was a young girl dead some 3 months and found buried  in a shallow grave on the outskirts of town.  As Chris starts to  investigate, he learns that Jean is indeed living in San Antonio and has a  missing 14-year-old daughter, Kristen.  Jean tearfully confides to Chris  that Raleigh Pentell, a local crime lord, has kidnapped her older daughter,  Clarissa, to ensure her silence about Kristen's hitherto unreported  disappearance.  There are some holes in Jean's story, as well as in her  past, but Chris finds, frees, and develops a relationship with Clarissa  while building a murder case against Pentell.  This novel is so intricately  layered and subtly plotted with themes of sin and redemption, love and  amorality, and right and wrong and the gray areas in between that it kept  me guessing until the end.  Did Pentell kill Kristen or did someone much  closer to her, someone who's e-mailing Chris pages from Kristen's diary,  set him up?  I have long been a fan of Jay Brandon and I consider this one  of his very best.	2000-03-27
US	51988066	R38PMQ1TNZZRZ3	0060196092	752429507	Moment of Truth	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Scottoline's newest	As much as I love Lisa Scottoline's legal thrillers, this, alas, is not one of my favorites.  Although attorney Jack Newlin, determined to frame himself for the murder of his wife which he thinks his teenage daughter has  committed, is the pivotal character, he remains such a shallow,  one-dimensional character that I never really got a feel for him.  Bennie  Rosato doesn't appear in this novel.  Instead, the defense of Jack Newlin  is taken on by associates Mary DiNunzio and Judy Carrier.  Mary soon  discovers the cracks in Jack's confession and, against his express wishes,  begins an investigation.  Mary, being an inexperienced trial lawyer, makes  some colossal blunders and some fairly inept, unprofessional judgment calls  in her quest for the truth and almost gets herself killed.  Moreover, the  warm, empathetic Mary develops a major crush on the wooden, aloof,  workaholic Jack.  Puh-leez!  While I found this novel fast paced and  entertaining, I did find myself exhorting Mary to &quot;Grow up&quot;,  &quot;Get a grip&quot;, and &quot;No!  Don't do that&quot; a lot.  And I  really would have liked to know more about who Jack was and what made him  tick -- unless it was the author's intention that there really was no  substance to him.  Overall, I liked the book but didn't love it as I  usually do Scottoline's work, and felt let down by the nagging ambiguities  and loose ends.	2000-03-26
US	51988066	R2ZIVAGNT57SMM	0385333633	960444184	The Heir Hunter	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Dynamite debut!	I had a general impression of what heir hunting was, but I had the sense that a blown computer was about as dangerous as it got.  Boy, was I wrong!  Nick Merchant and Alex Moreno are heir hunters who've lucked onto a  multi-million-dollar estate.  If they can track down the dead man's lawful  heirs before the competition does, they'll earn the payday of a lifetime.  Unfortunately, they aren't the only ones searching for the heirs of the  enigmatic corpse.  Nick and Alex are poleaxed by competitors, bombed and  shot at by assassins, framed for crimes they didn't commit, and threatened  by the FBI which has a vested interest in sticking by their story that the  dead man never existed.  Forced into fleeing under assumed names, Nick and  Alex are determined to clear their names and solve the case, even as the  bodies pile up around them.  Nick and Alex have a past and, hopefully, a  future!  The chemistry between them works and I hope to see them again in  the talented Chris Larsgaard's next book.	2000-03-26
US	51988066	R243SN1KKFLS2O	0312203837	58250960	Rough Draft	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hall is in his element ... again!	In the office of her young son's psychiatrist, writer Hannah Keller finds a copy of her first novel which is marked up with notes and some sort of coded messages.  Does this have anything to do with the brutal murders of  her parents 5 years before?  What does fugitive financier J. J. Fielding  have to do with those murders and the messages?  Why is the FBI watching  Hannah and who is watching the FBI watch her?  The suspense mounts as  maverick agent Frank Sheffield searches for answers from both professional  and personal perspectives.  The characters in this novel are especially  well fleshed out with their own unique sets of quirks and problems.  The  story begins building up steam early on and maintains its frenetic pace all  the way to the exciting climax.  This is highly recommended reading.	2000-03-21
US	51988066	ROWWNLP2OW4XL	0525944796	184026856	Above the Law (Luke Garrison)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Riveting!	When a DEA raid on a drug baron's wilderness compound goes bad with casualties on both sides, there's going to be hell to pay.  The federal agents had explicit orders to capture Reynaldo Juarez alive, so how did he  escape custody only to end up with a bullet through his brain?  Santa  Barbara attorney Luke Garrison is brought in as Special Prosecutor by his  old law school friend, Nora Ray, now the local D.A.<br />As Luke begins  building an airtight case against DEA agent Sterling Jerome for Juarez's  murder, troubling questions arise about the local sheriff, sudden wealth on  the nearby Indian reservation, the veracity of some of the evidence against  Jerome, etc.  And there's something about Nora...  This is a great novel  encompassing elements of mystery, suspense, police procedural, and  courtroom drama, with a shocker of an ending.	2000-03-21
US	51988066	RAYO9M130BU5J	0385332947	543065560	May God Have Mercy: A True Story of Crime and Punishment	Books	5	4	8	N	N	First-rate Journalism	(Originally submitted 02/29/00) This book tells the story of the brutal 1981 rape and murder of Wanda McCoy on an early spring night in Grundy, Virginia, and the execution of her alleged killer, Roger Keith Coleman, in the spring of 1992.  It is filled with the vivid imagery of the wild, mountainous area of Southwest VA where coal is king and poverty rules.  The sordid tale is brought to life by the intricately described cast of  characters, many of whom are stranger than fiction.  To this roiling  cauldron are added the actions, inactions, and questionable tactics of  various lawmen, judges, attorneys, and putative witnesses, all of which  melds into a rich tapestry of facts and lies liberally laced with threads  of overwhelming reasonable doubt.<br />I live in VA and followed the Roger  Coleman case as it wended its way through the courts and newspapers.  I was  stupefied when I heard the news that Coleman had been executed 10 years  after his conviction on the flimsiest of circumstantial evidence.... If  this excellent book makes you think, examine your feelings about capital  punishment, and question &quot;justice&quot; in America, then it has done  its job.  It is a brilliant, provacative work and should not be missed by  anyone interested in death penalty issues.	2000-03-14
US	51988066	R1Q2T2XAGJLLYV	0515127221	241381231	Sullivan's Island (Lowcountry Tales)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Stunning	Despite certain caustic Yankee comments, this is a WONDERFUL book about Southern women!  I was raised in Virginia, not the South Carolina low country, but I can sure enough affirm that Dottie Frank has breathed pure life into the customs, language, mores, and insane rituals of the South.  Truth to tell, I feel like I must have been raised in some parallel  extension of the family depicted in the novel.  I KNOW Susan's mother and  father and grandmother!  Susan and her sister Maggie are great characters,  full of spit and vinegar and thick, stubborn backbones -- true steel  magnolias.  Which is a wonder, considering the simpering, ineffectual  ninnies their mother and grandmother were.  They overcame that, and their  sadistic brute of a father, and taught themselves what NOT to be in their  lives.  This is a novel of strength and endurance, love and betrayal, and  hope and optimism born of chaos and despair -- liberally laced with  side-splitting humor and stunning imagery.  I absolutely loved this book  and hope to see more from this author.	2000-03-14
US	51988066	R20XCTE558YSKU	055310666X	284106836	False Memory	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Not particularly memorable	(Originally submitted 02/01/00)   I read every Dean Koontz book hot off the press and am usually hooked from the first few pages.  This one is not typical Koontz in that I was over 200 pages in before I became interested  in the story line.  The protagonist is weird and dangerous, without a doubt  but, in the end, he is simply a man, and I missed the  supernatural/paranormal elements which are quintessentially Koontz.  If I  read correctly, the evil doctor's chief motive for the bloody havoc he  wreaks was revenge for bad literary reviews of his work on Amazon.com!  The  main characters -- Martie, Dusty, Valet, Skeet, et al. -- are well and  highly developed and, once you get past the slow start, you will certainly  gain sympathy, worry about them, and root for them to the end.  The premise  is brainwashing, keyed by an individualized haiku.  As depicted, it's  probably possible, which is genuinely frightening.  The secret revealed  near the end, however, is out of the blue, over the top, and patently  unbelievable.  This novel lacks the meaty substance of the works we've come  to expect from Dean Koontz and is, alas, unmemorable.	2000-02-24
US	51988066	R2XVQTNHQ1VIRL	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Entertaining	(Originally submitted 02/09/00)  I must say up front that I loathed &quot;The Partner&quot; and &quot;The Testament&quot; and so it was with some trepidation that I went ahead and bought &quot;The Brethren&quot; in  hardcover.  But you know what?  I liked it!  This is the story of 3  felonious judges -- The Brethren -- incarcerated in a federal prison in  Florida who, to while away the time as well as fuel the larceny in their  hearts, devise a scam to extort money from affluent, closeted gay men.  Their &quot;courier&quot; is down and out lawyer Trevor Carson, who spends  most of his time either drunk or sleeping in his filthy office when he's  not screaming at his long-suffering and surly secretary and dodging  creditors.  (I think I used to work for this guy!)  At the same time that a  presidential election is being bought and financed by the CIA, the  candidate gets caught in The Brethren's net.  The truly creepy CIA director  spares no expense in intercepting Trevor, infiltrating The Brethren,  hauling out the latest in covert bugging and surveillance equipment --  whatever it takes to quell any hint of scandal from attaching to his  hand-picked candidate.  The political scenarios are scary and depressing,  as is the ease with which the con is launched from a federal prison, the  humor is genuinely funny (I laughed out loud at Jan the secretary's  breakdown), and the novel is an interesting and entertaining read.  (The  premise of the con itself is not as far-fetched as one might think; read  &quot;Mississippi Mud.&quot;)  I was somewhat disconcerted by the ending in  that I thought some of the wrong characters paid with their lives while  certain others were unjustly rewarded for their wrongdoing but, I guess if  you read the paper every morning, that pretty much parallels real life,  huh?	2000-02-23
US	51988066	R2IXACAXZZT7XP	0375500804	770652862	Chaos Theory: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Simply terrific!	(Originally submitted 02/10/00)   What if 2 good and normal 17-year-old boys found themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time and saw something they weren't supposed to see, which actually wasn't what they  thought they saw at all?  This is what happens to Jason Rourke and Dennis  Monroe in the beginning of this superbly plotted novel.  From that point  on, they become fugitives, suspects in a D.C. cop killing.  They know  something is up when the picture of the dead cop in the newspaper is not of  the same man they ran down in their car while escaping as he tried to rob  them at gunpoint.  As the story progresses, Jason is on the run, hidden out  by high school teacher and former investigative reporter Renee Daniels,  their friend and confidant, while Dennis, who didn't run fast enough, is  kidnapped by a sinister group of men.  Harcourt, the allegedly dead cop,  was the subject of an investigation into stolen evidence.  At the same  time, it has been noticed that certain homeless denizens of the city who  bear a resemblance to high profile criminal suspects are disappearing with  alarming regularity.  When Jason confides in Renee the bizarre story of  what he and Dennis did and what they saw and what they subsequently learned  from news reports, as well as a drugs setup at school involving both of  them and being chased by men who may or may not be police officers, she  turns to her old friend, FBI agent Frank Laroux.  Frank is skeptical of the  unlikely story he's hearing but, as he begins asking questions and  compiling data, he begins to believe the boys are telling the truth.  While  Jason is put under FBI protection, Dennis is still missing and, as the pace  of Laroux's investigation picks up, finding him becomes a race against  time.  This book is what a great thriller is all about.  It's well written  with vibrant, 3-dimensional characters, and a literary social commentary to  boot.  The suspense simply does not let up until the very end.  Anyone wholiked &quot;Nathan's Run&quot; and &quot;The Client&quot; is going to love  this.  I highly, highly recommend it.	2000-02-23
US	51988066	R3279CJUTDCK8O	0671026798	220318053	False Accusations	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Diabolical	(Originally submitted 02/13/00)  Two people are run down in a vicious, deliberate hit and run on a dark Sacramento street.  After the murder car is traced back to him and conclusive evidence is found in and about it,  well respected Dr. Phillip Madison is arrested.  The story he tells to his  lawyer and investigators is that somehow, beautiful but psychotic Brittany  Harding has committed the murders and framed him to exact revenge against  him.  It seems that Ms. Harding, about to lose her job with the charitable  institution Dr. Madison is affiliated with, accused him of sexual  harassment and, ultimately, rape.  To protect his family and reputation,  Dr. Madison paid her off; then, she reneged on the settlement agreement,  causing his wife to leave him, whereupon Harding's lawyer insisted that the  money be returned.  After a series of startling confrontations and  increasingly bizarre behavior on Harding's part, the killings occur and Dr.  Madison is arrested.  As his lawyer and investigators work diligently to  find the evidence to clear him, the D.A. is gradually swayed and, before  the case actually goes to trial, charges are dropped against Madison and  Harding is arrested in his stead.  The evidentiary procedures and courtroom  scenes ring true and move forward at a fast, exciting pace.  The last  quarter of the book, with its chillingly diabolical twists and turns, is  guaranteed to shock the reader and aficionados of the crime and courtroom  genre will not be disappointed.	2000-02-23
US	51988066	R2WV5VBEONTPIE	0375500804	770652862	Chaos Theory: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Simply terrific!	What if 2 good and normal 17-year-old boys found themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time and saw something they weren't supposed to see, which actually wasn't what they thought they saw at all?  This is what  happens to Jason Rourke and Dennis Monroe in the beginning of this superbly  plotted book.  From that point on, they become fugitives, suspects in a  D.C. cop killing.  They know something is up when the picture of the dead  cop in the newspaper is not of the same man they ran down in their car  while escaping as he tried to rob them at gunpoint.  As the story  progresses, Jason is on the run, hidden out by high school teacher and  former investigative reporter Renee Daniels, their friend and confidant,  while Dennis, who didn't run fast enough, is kidnapped by a sinister group  of men.  Harcourt, the allegedly dead cop, was the subject of an  investigation into stolen evidence.  At the same time, it has been noticed  that certain homeless denizens of the city who bear a resemblance to high  profile criminal suspects are disappearing with regularity.  When Jason  confides in Renee the bizarre story of what he and Dennis did and what they  saw and what they subsequently learned from news reports, as well as a  drugs setup at school involving both of them and being chased by men who  may or may not be police officers, she turns to her old friend, FBI agent  Frank Laroux.  Frank is skeptical of the unlikely story he's hearing but,  as he begins asking questions and compiling data, he begins to believe the  boys are telling the truth.  While Jason is put under FBI protection,  Dennis is still missing and, as the pace of Laroux's investigation picks  up, finding him becomes a race against time.  This is a well written  thriller with vibrant, 3-dimensional characters, and the suspense simply  does not let up until the very end.  Anyone who liked &quot;Nathan's  Run&quot; and &quot;The Client&quot; will love this.  I highly, highly  recommend it.	2000-02-11
US	51988066	R2M0ZLWE92DZQN	1551665093	923721177	Summer's Child	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Beautiful and haunting	I originally submitted a review of this wonderful book about 2 weeks ago, but am now informed that it has apparently been lost in the system.  Since the book is no longer fresh in my mind, rather than try to recreate the original review, suffice it to say that this story about a newborn  abandoned on the beach at Kill Devil Hills, NC, 22 years ago incorporates  elements of mystery, suspense, love and romance, familial relationships,  and ulterior motives.  Shelley, the grown up baby, asks for help from a TV  show to discover the identity of her birth parents.  More than one woman  thinks she may be Shelley's mother, and the entire community seems to be  rife with secrets and suspects.  It takes Shelley's pregnancy, a hurricane,  her disappearance, and a misguided suicide attempt to set matters right and  reveal old and painful secrets.  This novel is well written, wonderfully  plotted, completely captivating, and one of the most poignant I've read in  some time.	2000-02-09
US	51988066	R24RMEXLOZ7Q7A	0679454454	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Riotous!	Picture this cast of characters:  Twilly Spree, a young millionaire who goes ballistic over litterbugs and eco-terrorists.  Palmer Stoat, a ruthless lobbyist whose favorite past-time is &quot;canned hunts&quot; --  'til the day he tries to blast an elderly, senile rhinoceros.  Clinton  &quot;Skink&quot; Tyree, former governor of Florida who's now a  swamp-dwelling loner, whose culinary juices are stirred by roadkill, and  whose wardrobe consists of a racing-flag kilt and a shower cap.  Mix in  beautiful Desie Stoat, Governor Dick Artemous, developer Bob Clapley and  his Barbie-doll fetish, hit man Gash, and Boodle/McGuinn, the adorable  young black Lab who must be considered the main and title character, and  you are well on your way to a rousing frolic of a read.<br />Young Spree has  gone ballistic over Palmer Stoat's littering, while Stoat is lobbying for a  bridge which will allow the development of a lovely little barrier island  into a golfer's paradise and, of course, destroy it at the same time.  When  Spree learns that the litterbug he's been tailing is also deeply involved  in the destruction of ecosystems, to say nothing of a &quot;great white  hunter&quot; in so-called private wildlife preserves, he kidnaps Stoat's  wife, Desie, and his black Lab, Boodle.  Desie is soon released, only to go  back and freely spend time with the desperado and the dog, whom Spree has  re-named McGuinn.<br />While on the run from Stoat and the hit man and various  other miscreants looking for them, Spree and Desie fall in what is close  enough to love.  The novel, as it unfolds toward its hysterical conclusion,  is one hilarious mishap after another, packed full of riotous scenes  guaranteed to produce belly-laughs.  You will shriek with glee at The  Barbies and their quest for &quot;rhino dust&quot;, laugh 'til you cry at  the hit man's 911 call, and fall hopelessly in love with the dog.<br />If  you're looking for an evening's feel-good entertainment, get this book.  It's a novel of sophisticated, high spirited humor where everyone gets  their just deserts, and you won't be disappointed.a novel of sophisticated, high spirited humor where everyone gets  their just deserts, and you won't be disappointed.	2000-02-06
US	51988066	R1ILIGWAX0OY66	1551666251	121353441	Fruitcake (Mira)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great fun!	As a burned-out paralegal, I love stories about down and out lawyers!  Seriously -- as this novel begins, attorney Gabriel Rose, fresh out of  jail, is babysitting a honeymooning friend's practice to earn a few dollars  when a new client brings in a box of purported evidence and offers him a  $25,000 retainer to help him unravel an evil banking conspiracy which the  FBI and CIA won't touch.  A cursory glance through the box convinces Gabe  that his eccentric potential new client, Del Pritchard, has to be a  fruitcake.<br />The next thing he knows, the evidence is stolen from the back  seat of his car, a cop is shot at that scene and, across town, Del  Pritchard is murdered by a masked intruder.  Del's cousin Margo, a former  attorney who is now a Hollywood insider, arrives in town and, as she and  Gabe plod through the remnants of Del's evidence, sparks fly and a romance  buds even as a psychotic Native American hit man stalks them.  At the same  time, a police detective with an axe to grind is trying to pin suspicion on  poor Gabe, who is trying hard to earn Del's posthumous retainer check so he  can keep the baby daughter he adores in milk.  As Gabe and Margot dodge  crooked lawyers, twisted bankers, pig-headed cops and, of course, the hit  man on a mission, the body count rises.  Gabe's journey toward putting his  personal and professional lives in order while solving Del's case is great  fun to read and highly recommended.	2000-02-02
US	51988066	R12I8D40T03XIK	055310666X	284106836	False Memory	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Not particularly memorable	I read every Dean Koontz book hot off the press and am usuallyhooked from the first few pages.  This one is not typical Koontz inthat I was over 200 pages in before I became interested in the storyline.  The protagonist is weird and dangerous, without a doubt, but in the end, he is simply a man, and I missed the supernatural/paranormal elements which are quintessentially Koontz.  If I read correctly, the evil doctor's chief motive was revenge for bad literary reviews of his work on Amazon.com!  The main characters -- Martie, Dusty, Valet, Skeet, et al. -- are well and highly developed and, once you get past the slow start, you will certainly gain sympathy, worry about them, and root for them to the end.  The premise is brainwashing, keyed by an individualized haiku.  As depicted, it's probably possible, which is genuinely frightening.  END	2000-02-01
US	51988066	R37HOS56LJAVNM	0425173003	489706931	Bad Chemistry	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Packs a wallop!	Gary Krist has created a dynamite character in the person of strong, stubborn, take-no-prisoners Kate Theodorus.  Kate, a former Chicago cop, has been transplanted to the Maryland suburbs as the wife of Joel Baker, a  60's refugee turned entrepreneur.  As the story begins, Joel throws a  birthday party for the family dog to which the neighborhood pets are  invited.  Kate is not entirely sure whether Joel's intent was to impress  the neighbors -- or snub them.  In any event, the canine fest ends with an  act of violence which will thoroughly horrify dog lovers such as myself.  Later that night, Joel makes a routine trip to the store -- and vanishes.  Kate finds herself at loggerheads with the police, who treat Joel's  disappearance as a domestic matter.  It is not long before a very weird  14-year-old boy reports to 911 his discovery (several days before!) of a  mutilated body in the woods.  When the body is identified as a business  associate of Joel and his partner, Don, the missing Joel becomes a suspect  in the man's murder.  At the same time, Kate herself is considered a  possible suspect and placed under surveillance.  While Kate believes Joel  has disappeared because he is in trouble of some sort, she refuses to  believe he is capable of murder.  But how well does she really know him?,  she wonders as she begins to discover secrets within secrets and the body  count rises.<br />No longer trusting the police, Kate launches her own search  for Joel.  Her investigative techniques include her Police Academy  training, covert surveillance, following both people and paper trails, and  plain old-fashioned bluff and bravura.  When Evan, the boy who found the  body, becomes her unlikely ally, she is introduced to the world of Internet  snooping, chat, and hacking.  Joel's import/export business includes legal  and quasi-legal pharmaceuticals and as the pieces of the puzzle begin to  fit together, it starts to look like the 60's battle cry of and Joel and  certain of his partners -- Better Living Through Chemistry -- has been  pushed to deadly limits.  The novel culminates in a hair-raising  confrontation among Kate and Evan and Joel and his cohorts, with a  fortuitous appearance by a DEA SWAT team, from which not everyone emerges  alive.<br />This author is a new find for me and I will certainly be on the  lookout for his next book.  This one, apparently his first, is dark and  creepy and deep, and immensely satisfying.his partners -- Better Living Through Chemistry -- has been  pushed to deadly limits.  The novel culminates in a hair-raising  confrontation among Kate and Evan and Joel and his cohorts, with a  fortuitous appearance by a DEA SWAT team, from which not everyone emerges  alive.<br />This author is a new find for me and I will certainly be on the  lookout for his next book.  This one, apparently his first, is dark and  creepy and deep, and immensely satisfying.	2000-02-01
US	51988066	R1U0A7N10FA87T	0425173003	489706931	Bad Chemistry	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Packs a wallop!	Gary Krist has created a dynamite character in the person of strong, stubborn, take-no-prisoners Kate Theodorus.  Kate, a former Chicago cop, has been transplanted to the Maryland suburbs as the wife of Joel Baker, a  60's refugee turned entrepreneur.  As the story begins, Joel throws a  birthday party for the family dog to which the neighborhood pets are  invited.  Kate is not entirely sure whether Joel's intent was to impress  the neighbors -- or snub them.  In any event, the canine fest ends with an  act of violence which will thoroughly horrify dog lovers such as myself.   Later that night, Joel makes a routine trip to the store -- and vanishes.   Kate finds herself at loggerheads with the police, who treat Joel's  disappearance as a domestic matter.  It is not long before a very weird  14-year-old boy reports to 911 his discovery (several days before!) of a  mutilated body in the woods.  When the body is identified as a business  associate of Joel and his partner, Don, the missing Joel becomes a suspect  in the man's murder.  At the same time, Kate herself is considered a  possible suspect and placed under surveillance.  While Kate believes Joel  has disappeared because he is in trouble of some sort, she refuses to  believe he is capable of murder.  But how well does she really know him?,  she wonders as she begins to discover secrets within secrets.<br />No longer  trusting the police, Kate launches her own search for Joel.  Her  investigative techniques include her Police Academy training, covert  surveillance, following both people and paper trails, and plain  old-fashioned bluff and bravura.  When Evan, the boy who found the body,  becomes her unlikely ally, she is introduced to the world of Internet  snooping, chat, and hacking.  Joel's import/export business includes legal  and quasi-legal pharmaceuticals and as the pieces of the puzzle begin to  fit together, it starts to look like the 60's battle cry of and Joel and  certain of his partners -- Better Living Through Chemistry -- has been  pushed to deadly limits.  The novel culminates in a hair-raising  confrontation among Kate and Evan and Joel and his cohorts, with a  fortuitous appearance by a DEA SWAT team, from which not everyone emerges  alive.<br />This author is a new find for me and I will certainly be on the  lookout for his next book.  This one, apparently his first, is dark and  creepy and deep, and infinitely satisfying.	2000-02-01
US	51988066	R2FI6RL436FFS	0399145362	418239112	The Attorney (Paul Madriani, Book 5)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A hellava whodunit!	I love a good courtroom drama, and this one delivers with a wallop.  Zolanda Suade is a man-hating childrens' advocate from hell who runs an underground network for the protection of abused children, whether the  accusations of abuse are founded or not.  When Jonah Hale, a wealthy  lottery winner who has custody of his 8-year-old granddaughter, Amamda, is  accused by his junkie daughter, Jessica, of raping her and molesting Mandy,  Suade orchestrates the child's abduction and subsequent disappearance into  her vast underground.  Jonah, who had clashed with Suade shortly before  Mandy's disappearance, vows in the presence of 2 law enforcement officials  to kill Suade unless she returns Mandy to him and his wife.  When Suade is  shot to death outside her office and one of Jonah's rare and expensive  cigars is found near the body, to say nothing of other damning  circumstantial evidence, he is predictably charged with murder.<br />Attorney  Paul Madriani, whom Jonah had retained to help find Mandy and secure her  return, must now prepare a murder defense in the face of nearly  overwhelming evidence against his client.  Matters aren't helped by the  fact that Paul's girlfriend, Susan, directs the local Childrens' Protective  Services, heard Jonah's threat, knew Suade personally, and is compelled to  give evidence against Jonah.<br />The ending is an absolute surprise which  I had no clue was coming!  This is spellbinding Martini at his best.	2000-01-30
US	51988066	R3PWRAN8A4N3NU	0446525774	194746957	Saving Faith	Books	3	7	9	N	N	No Absolute Power	This books starts out slow, picks up its pace, then devolves into a wholly unrealistic premise.  I doubt whether anyone believes the government is completely pristine but, really, robbing Peter (blackmailing government officials) to pay Paul (a 1-man campaign to help third-world countries)  is  laughably unbelievable.  Still in all, I did enjoy the interplay between  Faith, a would-be material witness, and Lee, a PI who shows up in the wrong  place at the wrong time.  Too, Lee's skill in saving Faith and her  erstwhile mentor from rogue CIA agents, double-crossing FBI operatives, and  assorted and sundry other miscreants makes for an entertaining story.  The  mechanism for bringing these two together, however -- the conspiracy which  is the main theme of the story -- completely defies credulity.  I did love  the scenes set in the Outer Banks of North Carolina, one of my favorite  places.  The bottom line is that this book pales in comparison to  &quot;Absolute Power&quot;, &quot;The Simple Truth&quot;, and &quot;Total  Control&quot;, and I wish I had waited 'til it came out in paperback to buy  it.	2000-01-28
US	51988066	R2BU8U74JBGZY6	0812571991	127371808	Legacies: A Repairman Jack Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Compelling	Dr. Alicia Clayton has inherited the family home -- a house she refuses to set foot in and wants no part of.  There are other people, including her half-baked half brother, who want the house desperately and will do  whatever it takes to ensure that Alicia doesn't sell it to strangers, give  it away, or burn it down.  People who try to help her with her real estate  problem have a nasty habit of turning up dead.  And then she meets  Repairman Jack when he recovers a stolen load of Christmas toys for her  center for AIDS babies.  The pace is fast and the action intense as Jack  and Alicia try to figure out the secret of the house and who is so  determined to wrest ownership from her.  The doctor comes across at times  as a weepy clinging violet but, to her credit, she finds her courage in the  end.  Repairman Jack, the shadow man with no legal identity who  &quot;fixes&quot; otherwise irremediable problems, is a character we first  met in &quot;The Tomb.&quot;  It's about time he was brought back!  There  is a lot of fast paced action, liberally laced with unavoidable violence,  leading up to the exciting denouement.  The good guys pull off a win by the  skin of their teeth, leaving Alicia with a heavy decision to make which  could affect civilization as we know it.  I don't as a rule care much for  violence and shootouts and car chases, but I loved this book and can't wait  for Repairman Jack's next outing.	2000-01-27
US	51988066	R35EJE5YIC7DFO	0380976544	106276458	Garden of Evil	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Dark departure for Britt Montero	Edna Buchanan's latest Britt Montero novel is very different sans the usual suspects; e.g., Cuban patriots and expatriates.  This time out, newspaperwoman Britt goes one on one with a female serial killer as she cuts a bloody swath across Florida.  Killer Keppie Lee Hutton is about as  warped a character as ever penned by the inimitable Ms. Buchanan.  Her main  criterion for killing is the mere existence of men who, responding to her  sexy mannerisms and seductive come-ons, make love to her.  Once the deed is  done, this gruesome Southern black widow dispatches them painfully and  messily.  Her progress across the state into Miami, Britt's bailiwick, is  charted by the missing vehicle of each new victim, since the previous  victims' wheels are always found near the latest crime scene.  Sound  familiar?  Keppie Lee has a dark and deadly past and a shocking family  secret which Britt discovers only after she and a small child are taken as  hostages on a joy ride from hell.  Britt not only has the little boy to  protect from Keppie's murderous mood swings, but is forced to fend off  Keppie's amorous advances while helplessly watching this sick puppy scope  out her new victims.  Quick thinking and a 1-time window of opportunity  provides Britt exactly 1 chance to save herself and the boy.<br />Keppie  is finally captured in Barbados and, in a jailhouse confrontation back in  Miami, reveals to Britt her final secret and ace in the hole, providing for  a shocking but ambiguous ending.  We may see Keppie Lee Hutton again.<br />This  book is well plotted, quick paced, distressingly plausible and, while perhaps  not one of Buchanan's best, is nonetheless highly entertaining and recommended.	2000-01-22
US	51988066	R1DJTAEIKAEOAB	0671023918	418424101	Broken Wings	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gripping!	After a badly managed standoff between a survivalist group and the FBI, agent/profiler Jake Donovan is forced into retirement as part of a major upheaval at the FBI.  Soon afterwards, the Director of the FBI is found  dead of a gunshot wound.  It looks like a straightforward suicide, but was  it?  And if so, did the burned photos in the fireplace indicate blackmail  which might have provided the Director with a motive?  Donovan is summoned  back to Quantico and asked to run an independent investigation to ensure  (1) that the death was, in fact, what it looked like and (2) whether the  Director was the victim of blackmail and, if so, whether the basis of the  blackmail could be kept quiet.  We all know that &quot;independent&quot; is  anathema to a federal buraucracy, and suffice it to say that the book hits  the ground running from there.  Donovan manages to assemble a team of FBI  misfits and rejects, financed by the widow(?)of a missing/dead  statesman/crime lord.  The team kicks butts and takes names and knows how  to get the job done, never mind that nothing is who or what it seems.  The  novel is replete with intrigue, mistrust, grave robbing(!) [by the good  guys!], forensics, sexual chemistry, and plenty of insight into how the FBI  operates.  I saw a great deal of autobiographical material vis-a-vis John  Douglas, which worked superbly to make the pot boil faster.  The novel  could be construed as a giant nose-thumbing at FBI rules and regulations.  I love it!  The authors left the door wide open for their next  collaboration, and I will eagerly await it.	2000-01-17
US	51988066	RQ5CV9E8CXLBG	0312209002	661747623	Deep Background	Books	2	6	8	N	N	It could have been a contender...	This book has all the elements for a highly charged political tour de force -- a presidential assassination, White House intrigue, deep cover hit  squad, conspiracy at the CIA, don't ask-don't tell Marines, etc.  Unfortunately, the elements are handled in too rambling and disjointed a  manner to work.  Even the foray into the wonderful city of New Orleans is  stiff and wooden and, ultimately, boring.  The central character, White  House aide Nick Addis, just can't seem to catch a break.  Everyone he comes  in contact with while searching for answers about the assassination of  President Hanover -- and whether a shady land deal back in Hanover's home  state of Louisiana where he was governor has any bearing -- ends up dead,  maimed, or missing.  All of this should have provided fodder for some  super-charged action and complexity of plot, but it just doesn't happen.  How deeply knowledgeable about or even involved in the assassination plot  is the widowed First Lady, or the Vice President-cum-new president, or  assorted other Cabinet members and government officials?  By the end of the  book, I was still in the dark about exactly what happened, why it happened,  or &quot;who done it&quot; all.  At 370 pages, this was a good length to  read in 1 sitting; instead, it took me 5 days, with 2 other books read in  between.  The author obviously has a deep working knowledge of the inner  workings of Washington but, alas, that is not enough to make the concept of  this offering work -- which is too bad, because it SHOULD have worked.	2000-01-16
US	51988066	R2RX3PF4HCTKX8	067945960X	625404653	Monster: A Novel	Books	5	28	33	N	N	Fast-paced, first-rate suspense	I'm a long-time Kellerman fan, and &quot;Monster&quot; is one of his best.  This is a fast-paced novel of contemporary suspense.  Albeit there are some loose ends and unlikely plot mechanisms, the suspense is of the  old-fashioned nail-biting variety.  The cast of characters -- a motley crew  of twisted doctors, calculating nurses, amoral rich people, the has-been  actress, etc. -- is well crafted and believable.  We don't see much of  Robin or Spike in this story, while Milo the cop plays second fiddle to  Alex without having to fight the rest of the Police Dept. every step of the  way.  This is Dr. Delaware's mystery to solve, more so than in some of the  previous Alex Delaware novels in which he does little more than consult.  The alert reader will find himself rooting for the nominal  &quot;Monster&quot; as the action picks up.  The series of murders is  particularly gruesome but, hey, that's the nature of this genre.  The  ultimate unveiling of the &quot;Monster&quot; is almost anticlimatic if  you've been paying attention and catching the clues, but what a hellava  good read getting there!	2000-01-13
US	51988066	R3S4857NCNQN4B	055310666X	284106836	False Memory	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Slow Starter	I've read every Koontz offering hot off the press, and am usually hooked from the first chapter.  This one is not typical Koontz in that I was over 200 pages in before I became interested in the storyline.  The protagonist  is weird and dangerous, without a doubt, but in the end, he is simply a  man, and I missed the supernatural/paranormal elements which are  quintessentially Koontz.  The main characters - Martie, Dusty, Valet,  Skeet, et al. - are well and highly developed and, once you get past the  slow start, you will certainly gain sympathy, worry about them, and root  for them to the end.  The premise is brainwashing, and is depicted as not  only possible but frighteningly easily accomplished. Ultimately, this IS  the Koontz we know and love, and &quot;False Memory&quot; is a highly  recommended &quot;must read&quot; for us fans!	2000-01-10
