US	51987107	R3TWB8XNLW9SYD	0670032107	113215664	Bible Code II: The Countdown	Books	1	38	67	N	N	Absolutely hilarious.	This is the feel-good laugh fest of the year.  Really.  I mean, here's the idea:  Drosnin takes the original Hebrew texts of various books of the Bible (a feat in itself, since there are multiple versions of some of them), lines up the text in orderly rows and columns, and then plays crossword.  Using various grid arrangements (there's no set rule for how many rows or columns he has to use, so he uses whatever he needs to get what he wants), he connects words vertically, diagonally, etc. and makes new sentences.  According to Drosnin, when intepreted correctly these sentences make specific predictions, both for events that have already occurred, and for events that will occur in our own future. <br /> <br />Some of you may still be with him at this point.  \\"Why not?\\" I imagine you saying.  \\"If the Bible is truly God's own work, or at least divinely inspired, why wouldn't He place within it a code that would allow Believers to read the future of mankind?\\"  I can think of several reasons why not.  To take one example, as numerous (and too often overserious) debunkers have been at pains to point out, if you apply the same techniques to \\"Moby Dick,\\" to Shakespeare, or to any reasonably long literary work, you will also be able to extract sentences that can be interpreted as pertaining to recent events.  And you don't even have to learn Hebrew.  God has apparently been a busier writer than we first thought. <br /> <br />The \\"Bible Code\\" has about the same level of seriousness as the writings of Nostradamus or Jeanne Dixon.  Bible Code II is additionally weighted with millennialist hokum - as any number of religious sects will be happy to tell you, we are rapidly approaching the \\"Last Days\\" or \\"End Times,\\" after all, just as we have been every single year since shortly after the Crucifixion - which firmly places Drosnin in the same lame-brained category as Hal \\"Oops, I think I'll move my predictions another few decades on\\" Lindsey.  What seals the deal here, naturally, isthat Drosnin makes a few predictions that are just too specific, and set too soon in the future.  As a prior reviewer has noted, if New York fails to take a nuclear hit this year, Drosnin has some recalibrating to do.  I'll take that bet.  He really needs to move things out a bit if he wants to maximize his take from this scam. <br /> <br />Don't be taken.  Even in the overpopulated realm of millenialist, pseudoscientific drivel, this is worthless fluff.  In the real world, it's just a belly laugh.	2004-12-20
US	51987107	R3HIARFUMLVP7R	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Moderately entertaining, but utter trash.	This is not the sort of thing you read and keep proudly on your bookshelf, perhaps with the intention of going back to it again and again.  Working in the vein of Umberto Eco's masterful (but flawed) &quot;Foucault's Pendulum,&quot; Dan Brown spins a Ludlumesque thriller centered on a centuries-old secret society, the Illuminati, and their use of a brand-new science-fictional technology stolen from a European institute to attempt to destroy their nemesis, the Vatican.  To say that the premise is a bit daft would be obvious; to note that the prose is barely literate would be superfluous (I doubt anyone is buying this expecting a brilliant command of the language).  This is complete crap, and after a quick and frustrating scan of this book you can be sure that I now will _not_ be picking up Brown's latest in this series, &quot;The Da Vinci Code,&quot; despite all the good press it's gotten.<br />But even if you approach this book on its own abysmal level, you will find a lot wrong with it.  The treatment of science, of scientists and of scientific institutes is perhaps a step above your average James Bond flick, but not a large one.  And the philosophical argument underlying the science fiction here--the creation of matter as a way of rationally supporting the existence of God--is laughably poor (no halfway intelligent Christian or atheist would be challenged by the fictional breakthrough described here).<br />To get some idea of where this novel is coming from, take the first few chapters, in which Harvard &quot;symbologist&quot; Robert Langdon is faxed a photo of a corpse with an oddly symmetrical brand burned into its chest (said brand, naturally, consists of the word &quot;Illuminati,&quot; but in a form that reads the same when turned upside-down).  We read that the symbol makes Langdon's heart pound, makes him feel as if he's been hit by a truck, makes him tremble, etc.  For god's sake, why?  It's just a symbol, and supposedly one he's never seen before, only heard of.  Why does it not occur to him that _anyone_ could have fabricated a seal reading &quot;Illuminati&quot; in two directions?  I mean, they made it up for this book, right?<br />Brown is enough of a professional to move his narrative along brisquely, and to sprinkle each chapter with enough forewarnings of what is to come, and enough cliffhangers, to keep the average reader going.  But it's all artifice over a hollow core--the characters are cardboard cutouts from a Ludlum novel; no one behaves in any fashion that might resemble a normal human being; and it is quite clear that while Brown researched enough to bluster his way through a superficial discussion, he really doesn't know anything about either science or religion.  Only worth your time if this sort of dreck is what you really like to read.	2003-10-04
US	51987107	R15FL3FGM84VBE	0971357285	712543716	Electric Jesus Corpse	Books	1	13	19	N	N	Willfully bizarre, but not worth the time.	In a brief forward to this \\"anti-novel\\" (whatever that is supposed to mean, given that the structure of the book is hardly an antithesis of anything), the author expresses his belief that you, the reader, will hate it.  Regardless of anything else you might say about him, at least Carlton Mellick III is truly a punk.  Only a punker would consciously attempt to create something that everyone will hate.<br />Unfortunately, I was more bored with this book than anything else.  The prose is either artfully inept or genuinely inept, and after a certain point I no longer had the patience to figure out if there was something--some Joycean sense of wordplay, perhaps--that I was simply missing out on, and was ready to simply call it awful.  Whether it went over my head or not, Mellick's style is eventually very tiresome.  The plot involves a re-framing of the story of Christ and the Apostles--hardly untrammeled ground--in some semi-apocalyptic future not long from now.  Ho-hum.  A prominent element is the existence of zombies straight out of \\"Night of the Living Dead\\" and every other movie or story with cannibalistic corpses that you've encountered before.  Yawn.  The characters are uniformly decadent, amoral and despicable.  Been there, done that--such an approach can be interesting, but it isn't here.<br />Maybe I'm just more jaded than Mellick believes to be possible, but I didn't hate this book.  I hated only the fact that I spent money on it, in anticipation of something truly subversive.  This book isn't subversive, but merely scatological, and worth taking about as seriously as a 12-year-old boy writing obscenities on the bathroom wall.  Naturally, devout Christians and anyone shocked by depictions of gratuitous violence, necrophilia and the like will react exactly the way Mellick seems to desire.  Everyone else will be puzzled at best.<br />There is, of course, the possibility that I am simply missing the point; there are any number of critically acclaimed novels thatI don't \\"get\\" any better than this one.  But the point of a review is simply to communicate my own impressions, hopefully with enough detail to provide at least some information, even for those who might not agree.  Good luck deciding if you agree or not.<br />[Addendum and fair notice:  unlike the other reviewer currently on this site, I have actually read most of the book.  I was unable, however, to muster the energy to finish it completely, although I skimmed through the parts I failed to read thoroughly.  It didn't get any better.]	2003-06-01
US	51987107	R25YAVJLHZBP31	0609603698	865615884	Voices of the Rocks : A Scientist Looks at Catastrophes and Ancient Civilizations	Books	3	48	55	N	N	More reasonable than not	Prior to the publication of this book, Robert Schoch was best known outside of academic geology as the scientist John Anthony West called in to investigate the idea, by way of Schwaller de Lubicz, that the Sphinx shows signs of water erosion that indicates an age far greater than orthodox Egyptologists are currently willing to consider.  As detailed in Chapter Two of &quot;Voices of the Rocks,&quot; Schoch came away from his examination convinced both that the Sphinx and its enclosure had been subject to extensive precipitation-induced weathering and that this weathering could only have occurred if the stone had originally been carved at least as far back as 7000-5000 BC, if not earlier, as compared to the previously accepted date of 2700 BC.  Anyone looking for a real resolution to the scientific debate that Schoch started with these conclusions will be dissatisfied, as Schoch fails to acknowledge the inconsistencies in his findings (which can be found in Paul Jordan's &quot;Riddles of the Sphinx,&quot; among other places), or viable alternative hypotheses, such as one I have seen mentioned on the web that accounts for the Sphinx' characteristic weathering via a model involving its burial in waterlogged sand.  Nevertheless, it is this conclusion that Schoch uses as a springboard to consider the possibility of lost civilizations of greater antiquity than Egypt or Sumer, and (more importantly) the concomitant possibility that such civilizations were destroyed by worldwide cataclysms triggered by cometary impacts.<br />The book is sprinkled throughout with genuine, if most often highly speculative, science, and this distinguishes Schoch's efforts from those of pseudoscientific cranks like Graham Hancock or Rand Flem-Ath.  So, for example, Schoch visits the superficially strange underwater &quot;monolith&quot; near Yonaguni, but unlike many (and, most likely, unlike Hancock, who is currently writing a book that will deal with Yonaguni and other underwater &quot;monuments&quot;) he concludes that the structure is most likely a product of natural forces of erosion, as evidenced by the processes that can be observed on the beaches of Yonaguni now.  Similarly, the notion of &quot;polar shift&quot; first proposed by Charles Hapgood and currently championed by Flem-Ath and Hancock is dealt with summarily here.  In these parts of the book, it is refreshing to see a genuinely scientific approach being taken to questions that to date have been given only the most sensationalized and credulous of treatments.<br />Schoch's approach occasionally falters.  Immediately after determining that the Yonaguni &quot;monument&quot; shows erosion and weathering consistent with what is happening naturally on the beaches today, he mentions the fact that this does not altogether rule out the possibility that human hands did have a role in shaping it.  In the concluding paragraphs of this chapter, Schoch's narrative suddenly veers away from his scientific perspective as he incorporates a manmade Yonaguni monument into speculative and nearly baseless notions of ancient civilizations existing on the now submerged coasts of Ice Age-era antiquity.  Although the possibility of extensive neolithic cultures that have been erased by sea-level rises since the last Ice Age is a real one (see Stephen Oppenheimer's &quot;Eden in the East&quot; for a fair summary of the evidence for this), Schoch completely forgets that he has no evidence whatsoever for a human influence on Yonaguni, and plentiful evidence for natural processes.<br />Even with such slips, &quot;Voices&quot; is a worthwhile read for anyone looking for a more reasoned and less sensationalized perspective on the question of lost civilizations, the legend of Atlantis and the &quot;facts&quot; that might underlie it, and the possibility that cometary impacts have had profound effects on the course of human history.	2000-12-08
US	51987107	R31LS0W89WZ6YT	0894805770	597324596	What to Expect the First Year	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Not nearly as valuable as the first book in the series	My wife and I received this book along with its sister, &quot;What to Expect When You're Expecting.&quot;  We found the latter book to be invaluable during her pregnancy, and referred to it often.  I cannot say the same about this one.  While my wife was pregnant, when something unusual occurred more often than not we found a relevant entry in &quot;Expecting;&quot; to date, our experience with &quot;First Year&quot; is much more frustrating.  The monthly tabulation of events and behaviors we should expect from our child has been quite accurate, but we have received similar lists from our pediatrician at every appointment.  We have also received rather different advice from our pediatrician on a number of issues, such as sleeping with baby in the bed, when to introduce solid foods, etc.<br />Perhaps I am writing this review too early (our child is only 4 1/2 months old); more likely, the subject matter of this particular volume is likely to encounter wider variations in experiences than pregnancy alone.  Regardless, I find myself turning to this book only rarely, and getting something out of it even less; in particular, the doctrinaire nature of some of the authors' recommendations, which was first evident in the harping on diet in the first book, becomes less tolerable here.  I can't say that I've read a lot of these books, but we beginning parents are probably better off dealing with our friends (the ones who have already had children, not the ones who think they know all about it) and our pediatricians than with books such as this.	2000-11-12
US	51987107	RUYXAAH6K8R66	0679434631	397323332	The Dean and DeLuca Cookbook	Books	4	48	50	N	N	A nearly peerless cookbook, but the authors are annoying	If you are not in the habit of taking the greatest of care not only in the choice of what you eat, but how you eat it, prepare to be mildly offended.  David Rosengarten, and one presumes Dean and DeLuca as well, have very definite ideas of what ingredients should go together, and in what quantities, and the way they tell you is, well, downright snooty.  If, like me, you enjoy balsamic vinegar on your salads, or your pasta swimming in tomato sauce, you will also be told, very clearly, what a Philistine you truly are.<br />So be it.  I can get over the slights sent my way in this book, because I have now prepared upwards of 20 to 25 recipes presented here, and there hasn't been a bad one yet.  Soups, meat dishes, poultry dishes, pasta sauces, sandwiches, you name it, it's been a hit on my table and on my palate.  I'm not sure I would classify any of the recipes here as &quot;easy,&quot; but they are far from the most elaborate that I have encountered.  This is one of the top two or three cookbooks currently on my shelf, and one of the first I turn to when I want to try something new.  From a purely gustatory standpoint, I give this my highest recommendation--unless, of course, you are easily offended.	2000-11-12
US	51987107	RPGGSO4U9CMO9	0312262876	151862482	The Andy Griffith Show Book 40th Anniversary Edition	Books	1	28	37	N	N	For most readers, likely to be a waste of time	I ordered this book, sight unseen, as a gift for my father, a longtime Andy Griffith show fan.  Having received it, and having perused it, I am actually not certain I want to send it to Dad--it is that disappointing.  Those looking for behind the scenes accounts, biographical information, or any real description of how the show was made should avoid this book completely.  What you will find here is simple recitations of the characters on the show, and whatever information one can obtain on each one based on careful viewings of every episode.  If you don't know who the actors are, you will gain almost nothing from this--for example, I was very interested in who played the musical Darlings, but the identity of the band was revealed only in a very brief and very trivial factoid.      Overall, I am really not sure who would want to read this--if you've seen enough of the Andy Griffith show, you already know most of what is here, and what you don't know is trivial at best.  Try another book for real information on the show and its making.	2000-11-05
US	51987107	R16LKB3AJZS7HJ	0345321383	932766552	Bridge of Birds: A Novel of an Ancient China That Never Was	Books	5	65	71	N	N	Brilliant fantasy	&quot;Bridge of Birds&quot; is the most effective, most moving fantasy  novel I have read since John Crowley's &quot;Engine Summer.&quot;  Set in  (to use the publisher's blurb) &quot;an ancient China that never was,&quot;  this is at least on the surface the tale of Number Ten Ox, a young man from  a rural village who sets out with Master Li, a scholar and sage with  &quot;a slight flaw in his character,&quot; on a quest for the &quot;great  root of power,&quot; the only medicine of sufficient potency to cure the  village children of a case of ku poisoning.  As the story unfolds and these  two characters experience adventures enough to fill many novels (one can  imagine Tor or some other publisher spinning out these yarns by the tens a  la Conan if they got a hold of the publishing rights), their quest begins  to intertwine with another one, relating to an ancient wrong done to a  goddess.<br />More details would be superfluous, for there is simply no  substitute for reading this book.  The culture and characters described  here are fully realized (writers of doorstop-sized fantasy novels, such as  Robert Jordan, could take object lessons from Hughart in how to tell a  large story succinctly), and the overall atmosphere that this novel  achieves is that of the finest kind of fable, although I would not  necessarily recommend it for young children.  Hughart spices his narrative  throughout with a liberal dose of humor; I found myself laughing aloud many  times as I read along.  If there is a flaw to be found here, I failed to  see it.  This is as good as fantasy gets--one of the few novels that merits  the adjective &quot;magical.&quot;	2000-09-19
US	51987107	R2MA8I018QVK3Q	0446306533	892501308	Darkness Weaves	Books	2	3	11	N	N	A competent, but uninspired, first novel	Although only published in unabridged form some time after a number of  other stories concerning the antihero Kane had seen print, &quot;Darkness  Weaves&quot; was actually Karl Edward Wagner's first novel.  It shows.   Compared to his later stories, even later Kane stories (such as the three  collected in &quot;Death Angel's Shadow), the prose is merely serviceable,  the story is mediocre, and the overall effect is nothing special.  It  actually seems something of a misnomer to classify this as &quot;heroic  fantasy,&quot; given that Kane is hardly a hero, but if one has a penchant  for pigeonholing I suppose it belongs with Conan and Elric and the rest of  them as much as it belongs anywhere.<br />In any case, this novel concerns  Kane, Wagner's deathless amalgam of the biblical Cain (who in slaying his  brother Abel introduced violence and murder to mankind) and the Wandering  Jew (cursed to roam the earth forever with no resting place).  Here he is  taken on by the sorceress/queen Efrel to lead her armies (or, more  correctly, her navy) against an island empire in an act of vengeance.   There is no one to root for here--Kane is hardly a sympathetic hero, with  his allegiance to no interest save his own, and among the other characters  the only ones with nominally virtuous traits also tend to be simpering  idiots.  As an exercise in nihilistic antihero worship, perhaps this might  be enjoyable, and I don't want to give the impression that one needs a  virtuous character, or any force of &quot;good,&quot; in order to craft an  enjoyable novel.  I just don't think that Wagner pulled off such a feat  with this one.  It doesn't help that the ending, like the ending of most  Kane stories, is essentially &quot;everyone dies except Kane.&quot;<br />This  is the sort of fantasy that should appeal to young boys, for whom quality  of prose or characterization takes a backseat to military action, violence  and black &quot;magic&quot; (it should be noted that the &quot;magic&quot;  that takes place is rationalized as anachronistic technology, and does not  seem to be supernatural), and of course it will also appeal to those adults  who still have the literary tastes of young boys.  To anyone who likes  their fantasy a bit more highbrow, this is perhaps a step above the average  Conan novel, but you are still not likely to appreciate it.  Those who  still wish to experience a Kane story would do better with just about any  of the other Kane books, assuming they can be found.	2000-09-19
US	51987107	R3MEIW1NTIU6MV	0940884879	437454140	The Book of Hyperborea	Books	3	6	14	N	N	Overwrought but sometimes engaging	Clark Ashton Smith wrote prolifically for the old pulp magazines, mostly  during the 1920s and 1930s, but his main interest was in poetry.  That  preoccupation with language is clearly evident in every entry in this  volume, which represents a collection of all the stories (including a few  incomplete fragments) that pertained to his imaginary land of  &quot;Hyperborea,&quot; lost in the mists of antiquity.  These stories also  fit in with the so-called &quot;Cthulhu mythos&quot; of H.P. Lovecraft and  numerous other writers, which present an alternative history of humanity as  only the latest (and weakest) of earth's sentient denizens, subject to the  awful inhuman powers of greater beings that originally came from other  planets.  What distinguishes Smith's work from that of other Cthulhu  writers, or from other writers of fantasy, is his style of writing  (borrowed from the 19th century decadent poets he loved and emulated), his  morbid and ironic sense of humor, and his penchant for avoiding happy  endings.<br />From a modern perspective this doesn't always work.  One gets  the distinct impression in many of these stories of a writer more in love  with his own wordcraft than in tune with his narrative.  Some of the  stories are plainly ridiculous; &quot;The Door to Saturn,&quot; for  example, rates as unbearably poor science fiction in an Ed Wood, 50's  B-movie vein.  Others contain the germ of a wonderful idea, but squander it  on what amount to small-minded jokes, despite the florid prose that  attempts to disguise them as something else (&quot;The Seven Geases&quot;  in particular).  Nevertheless, some of these ideas are worth experiencing,  and some of Smith's humor still bites.	2000-09-16
US	51987107	R3IKQ3L2XZCW01	0812513754	861837137	Lord of Chaos (The Wheel of Time, Book 6)	Books	3	19	27	N	N	In which monotony sets in...	By the accounts I have read, Robert Jordan's fantasy megaseries &quot;The  Wheel of Time,&quot; the ninth volume of which is due for release in late  2000, was originally intended as a six-volume saga.  Whatever the  motivation--more money made on more volumes, characters or fantasyland more  interesting (and thus worth more verbiage) than first estimated, what have  you--the original plan is moot, and we the readers are faced with a series  half again as long as first advertised, with no end in sight.  This  situation would be more palatable if the events that take place within  &quot;The Wheel of Time&quot; had not begun to follow the monotonous  pattern that this episode first set up, to wit:  Rand Al'Thor flits about  various kingdoms under his nominal control to no apparent purpose, Aes  Sedai women scheme and plot against him and each other, other female  characters bicker and argue, all while the forces of darkness pull strings  in the background and seemingly have the better knowledge of what is really  happening--better, in fact, than the reader does.<br />In sum, not much of any  real import or consequence happens until the last 100 pages, which would  mean more if the book weren't 1000 pages long; the acceleration in this  last section is exhilarating, but part of this effect is achieved by the  900-page buildup, which any sensible reader (a category I apparently do not  fall under) cannot be blamed for avoiding entirely.  It is extremely  difficult to avoid the obvious conclusion that in this volume, not to  mention the previous and subsequent ones, Jordan could very easily have  accomplished the same narrative without slaughtering quite so many  trees.<br />None of these comments have any meaning, of course, if you have  become so infatuated with the characters or with Jordan's fantasyland that  no amount of description of the minutiae of these people's lives could ever  be enough.  Those who have finished the first five volumes and are not so  enthralled, however, should note that the investment in time and attention  that will be required to see Jordan's tale completely through may be more  than you are willing to give.  If so, this is the place to quit.  As far as  technical considerations are concerned, the prose is still slick but  occasionally poor, and given to recycling some of the same passages again  and again.<br />Overall, my impression is that after getting past the Tolkien  pastiche of the first few volumes, Jordan was doing a fine job of  exploiting a highly imaginative fantasyland.  It seems a genuine shame that  he would let his narrative bog down like it does here.	2000-09-16
US	51987107	R257ZDIKD4RIEL	0312858787	906123966	Gun, With Occasional Music: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Fun and imaginative	This is a hard book to pin down.  It begins as a strange but fun  pastiche/satire of Dashiell Hammett in a science fictional vein.   Specifically, the general atmosphere, penchant for tortured similes, and  basic plot devices (private detective, etc.) are borrowed from Hammett,  while the dystopic future is a variation on Orwell and Huxley.  The plot  turns that follow allow Lethem to show us how his near-future dystopia  evolves over time, which eventually leads to an immesely satisfying ending  (which, of course, I cannot explain without ruining the  surprise).<br />Lethem's skill as a writer is evident in the fact that he  manages to make a number of utterly absurd details seem real and  consistent:  &quot;evolution therapy,&quot; a biotechnological advance that  results in sentient kangaroos, kittens and sheep who make up a socially  inferior caste in society, as well as in super-smart infants and toddlers  who congregate in seedy &quot;baby bars&quot; to escape the unexplained  side-effects of their condition; a narrator who sometime in the past had  his sexual responses switched with an old girlfriend's, so that now, while  possessing a functioning male apparatus, he experiences sex like a woman;  government-sponsored &quot;makes,&quot; drug mixes with which everyone is  kept high and in the mental state they most desire; and on and on.  I would  hesitate to call Lethem a fully original writer, but at the same time, his  imagination is impressive, and the future society he envisions is  convincing.  The Hammett satire is worth a few chuckles as well.<br />For a  book that fails to reveal a single real weakness, I recommend this highly.   It isn't great literature, but it's a worthwhile read.	2000-09-09
US	51987107	R3NJYXBB1JHCI6	0786704454	817630267	The Loved Dead	Books	1	4	10	N	N	Low-grade pulp, with only minor attractions	&quot;The Loved Dead&quot; is a collection of stories by various writers  that in one way or another were altered by H.P. Lovecraft.  With no  introduction or other guide provided, it is impossible to guess the extent  to which any given story was influenced or written by Lovecraft, and the  styles are sufficiently dissimilar to make it seem likely that his  influence varies widely.  Regardless, the lack of &quot;liner notes&quot;  leaves the reader with no choice but to evaluate the stories on their own  merits, so:<br />There is little to point to in this collection that is  worthwhile.  &quot;Cthulhu mythos&quot; or Lovecraft fanatics will want  this just to be sure their collections are complete, but I can't imagine  why anyone else would buy it.  The stories presented were originally  published in pulp magazines in the 1920's and 1930's, and they show it;  what was horrifying then (assuming, of course, that any of these stories  were horrifying at all even then) ranges from boring to silly now.  And, in  at least one case, a modern reader may be genuinely offended, as in the  story which ends with what is presumably intended to be its most horrific  revelation, that the murderous, demonic witch who married into and  destroyed a well-to-do American family was not only supernaturally evil,  but also--hold your breaths, now--a _negress_.  One snorts with  disgust--and if we do so with the benefit of a modern perspective, so what?   Does this justify the original story somehow, which has no other redeeming  qualities?.<br />These stories do have their occasional moments.  &quot;The  Loved Dead,&quot; for example, though written in the early 1920's, contains  passages that are eerily reminiscent of what we now know of the mental  state of some serial killers.  Still, these moments are rare enough that  they fail to provide any real basis for a recommendation.  Avoid this  collection.	2000-09-09
US	51987107	R2OY3VCAU4IWV0	088184408X	612647154	The Lurker at the Threshold	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Inept	&quot;The Lurker at the Threshold&quot; is listed with H.P. Lovecraft as  the first author--in fact, one finds August Derleth's name only in the  small print on the back cover.  This is a shame, for two reasons:  first,  it tends to hide the fact that the book is almost entirely made up of  Derleth's writing, since Lovecraft's only (and posthumous) contribution was  a sketchy outline in his notes; second, while Lovecraft was far from a  great writer, or often even a good one, his best work was miles above this  bit of trash.<br />The book is divided into three parts that fail completely  to make a seamless whole.  In the first part, a third-person narrator  describes the arrival of Ambrose Dewart at his ancestor's home in Rhode  Island, near Lovecraft's invented towns of Arkham, Dunwich and Innsmouth.   He begins to carry out research into the life of his ancestor, and finds  dark intimations that he was a sorcerer or conjurer of some sort.  In the  second part, the point of view becomes that of Dewart's cousin in Boston,  who spends some time with Dewart and provides his own point of view on the  strange mental state that appears to have come upon the man.  In the final  section, we are presented with the narrative of an assistant of some sort  to a learned professor in Arkham who is called in to clean up Dewart's  mess.<br />The third section reads like a sloppy, last-minute wrap-up by a  writer too lazy to see his story through.  The professor is, conveniently  enough, an erudite scholar of just the sort of occult weirdness that  Ambrose Dewart has let overtake him, and so we are treated to long  paragraphs of explication as to just what sort of powers he is dealing  with.  [As a side note, it is worth pointing out that the explication here  is indicative of Derleth's rather belabored systematization of Lovecraft's  &quot;mythos,&quot; with references to &quot;elemental&quot; beings and  like inventions that really fail to fit in with Lovecraft's original  vision, such as it was.]  The situation is resolved with only the mildest  of struggles, and the final paragraph utterly fails to carry any of the  horrific import Derleth clearly intended it to have, especially if you have  only the foggiest of ideas of exactly what &quot;Yog-Sothoth&quot; was  supposed to be.<br />The remainder of the book is run-of-the-mill Lovecraftian  pastiche.  Overall, &quot;Lurker&quot; is worthwhile, and then marginally  so, only for Cthulhu completists and lovers of Lovecraftiana;  anyone else  is advised to stick to the original--&quot;The Best of H.P. Lovecraft&quot;  is a fine starting point.	2000-09-09
US	51987107	RIUW0153MZTC4	0812550293	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	No end in sight...	Well, I made it.  Then again, maybe not.  Eight books and thousands of  pages after &quot;The Eye of the World,&quot; I'm through all of the  currently existing prose that makes up Robert Jordan's megasaga &quot;The  Wheel of Time,&quot; and presumably, if you are reading this review, you  are considering reaching this pinnacle yourself.  Should you  bother?<br />&quot;The Wheel of Time&quot; began as a second-rate Tolkien  pastiche, and its first three volumes were formulaic and contrived.   Beginning with Book 4, &quot;The Shadow Rising,&quot; however, Jordan began  to take fuller advantage of the rich potential of the fantasyland he had  invented, as well as of the bygone &quot;Age of Legends&quot; that  underlies it.  His plots seemed less scripted and more natural, and his  characters actually seemed to evolve a bit from their beginnings as  cardboard cut-outs.  Starting with Book 6, &quot;Lord of Chaos,&quot;  however, Jordan began to get bogged down in variations of the same basic  plot points:  Rand Al'Thor, the Dragon Reborn, flits about the various  kingdoms he has conquered to no real end, the female characters squabble  and bicker, the bad guys scheme and always seem to have the upper hand,  even after they die (especially after the Dark One hits the  &quot;reset&quot; button and resurrects them), armies move hither and  thither and people die.  There is certainly more to things than this  tongue-in-cheek description allows, but really, that's the run of  it.<br />&quot;Path of Daggers&quot; is more of the same.  For those who have  followed the story to this point, events do occur, and are duly described,  and the made-up history of this fantasyland moves ploddingly forward.   Anyone not familiar with the first seven volumes, however, will be  hopelessly lost--Jordan has finally given up his feeble attempts at  providing capsule summaries of characters and events to make things  marginally decodable for the uninitiated.  It is at this point, of course,that the dedicated reader might finally lose all patience with Jordan's  severe case of literary elephantiasis; it is not difficult to imagine how  the story to this point could have been handled with considerably less  verbiage.<br />Just so, also, with this review.  So, the recommendations:  if  you haven't read the other books in this series, don't bother with this.   If you have, now is a good time to determine if you wish to continue or  not, since there is no indication that the frustrations of reading this  series will ever be alleviated.  Regardless, all those who are solely  impressed with scale should be reminded that the rewards of fiction, even  of epic fantasy, are to be found in other details, and in these Jordan  provides less of an obvious example.	2000-09-09
US	51987107	R34TADCSCB9APN	0671877054	815222208	Bran Mak Morn	Books	2	1	5	N	N	One fine story and a bunch of dreck	Robert E. Howard is perhaps most notable for being the founding father of the sub-genre of fantasy known as \\"swords and sorcery,\\" perfected long after his death by other writers, such as Fritz Leiber and Michael Moorcock. This collection, which falls squarely within that subgenre, is a not-quite-complete compilation of the Howard tales that concern his version of the Picts: a once-proud race of men that ruled the isles of Britain before succumbing to succeeding waves of foreign invaders, culminating with the Romans ca. 200-100 B.C. Howard's Picts, while based on factual evidence, are of course highly fictionalized and should not be taken seriously as historical figures. As literary figures, however, they are rich with potential, as is the particular leader who lends his name to this anthology, Bran Mak Morn.<br />This potential is most fully realized in the centerpiece tale, \\"Worms of the Earth,\\" in which Bran makes a horrible bargain with a devolved race of humanoids to help him rid Britain of the accursed Romans. The remaining stories are far less engaging, and suffer more acutely from Howard's painful prose style, engorged as it is with faux-arcane phrasing, always-ominous atmospherics, lazy place and character descriptions, and the like. A modern reader might also begin to feel a little uncomfortable with the constant references to the race to which a given character belongs, and the traits this necessarily imparts upon him. Howard was emblematic of the trend (or perhaps originated it for subsequent writers too lazy to avoid it) in many fantasies to associate good or evil with specific races.<br />Anyone who enjoys sword-and-sorcery style fantasy should read some Howard, if only to be familiar with the relevant antecedents. \\"Worms of the Earth\\" is worth the asking price of this collection by itself. Those who are not aficionados of fantasy (and even some who are) will find this unbearable, however.	2000-08-22
US	51987107	R2V087MWMP9TWD	0671876732	947408478	Kull (Robert E. Howard Series, Vol II)	Books	2	2	14	N	N	Execrable prose with a hint of real vision.	Between his first publication and his death by suicide, Robert E. Howard was amazingly productive, producing hundreds of stories and story fragments that, when not published in the pulp magazines of the 1920's and 30's, have almost uniformly been revived and anthologized in the many decades since. Best known for those works of fantasy that serve as the foundation for what is now called \\"swords and sorcery,\\" and of course in this vein most notably for his invention of Conan the Cimmerian, Howard typically wrote of muscular, heroic figures of fearsome fighting prowess who survived in worlds of black magic and sorcery by virtue of sheer wit and brawn. Kull, an \\"Atlantean\\" of barbaric nature who somehow usurps the throne of the great and ancient kingdom of Valusia (a story Howard never managed to tell), is one such character, and the stories, fragments and poems in this book are all concerned with him. With one exception, these stories involve Kull's activities as king, not with his rise to kinghood, and as some of the other reviewers on this site have also noted, for those who approach this collection with preconceived notions of what \\"swords and sorcery\\" stories are like, the concerns of some of these tales will seem surprisingly intellectual (although there is plenty of bloody fighting as well).<br />Enjoyment of this book, however, requires that one overcome a prose style that is ridiculously bad, from the characters' faux-arcane manner of speaking to the lazy jobs of description (just what is a \\"curious\\" sculpture, anyway?). Howard was a writer for the pulps, after all, and his prose is neither of literary merit nor anything to compare with the more polished styles of modern popular authors.<br />That said, underneath the pulp baggage it is possible to discern ideas of (dare I say it?) mythical impact. While the description of the history of the ancient serpent people and their defeat at the hands of the ancestors of humans is difficult to get through without laughing, on some level the story does have the ring of ancient myth, or at least of convincing storytelling, and it is possible to appreciate this while simultaneously acknowledging that Howard borrowed all of his ideas from other sources in the first place. If only Howard had been a more gifted writer, or at least had taken the time to craft his stories more carefully, a collection like this one, while slimmer, might be easier to recommend. As it stands, aficionados of sword-and-sorcery fiction should at least be familiar with this stuff, since it represents the antecedents of the entire genre (along with Edgar Rice Burroughs, though his work might fall more confortably in the category of science fiction). Anyone else will find this incomprehensible.	2000-08-14
US	51987107	R2ZAB3R22SFDW	0812513738	968535658	The Shadow Rising (The Wheel of Time, Book 4)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A too-long series improves as it goes on...	After reading 4 books of a series that currently stands at 8 (with at least 2 more on the way), comprising more than 3000 pages thus far, it is perhaps time to take a step back and try and determine just what it is that  Jordan is doing.  This is no generational saga--the same basic set of  characters is maintained throughout &quot;The Wheel of Time,&quot; give or  take the odd disappearance or even death (though, it should be noted, thus  far no one of any importance, save a few of the bad guys, has bought it for  good)--and there are no breaks in the flow of events to give the reader a  chance to catch his/her breath (unless, of course, he/she simply becomes  tired of it all and stops altogether).  This is purely genre fiction, which  is to say that it will appeal only to those who go for the sort of  high/epic fantasy largely invented by Tolkien and practiced by countless  more or less derivative, and more or less rewarding, writers in the decades  since the appearance of &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot;  Unlike other  such genre writers (Stephen R. Donaldson, for example) Jordan has nothing  particularly new to bring to the high fantasy concept, so for fantasy  aficionados &quot;The Wheel of Time&quot; provides at best another  imaginary land to explore, another set of fictional &quot;cultures&quot; to  experience, another reworking of commonly used myths and legends (the  Arthurian legends in particular) to re-familiarize oneself with.  In short,  this is nothing groundbreaking, nothing to mistake for literature, and  nothing that will be read decades from now, when future writers are busily  rehashing Jordan's rehashes and are the more popular for it--assuming, of  course, that high fantasy is a commercially viable enterprise then.<br />As I  say this, I must admit that &quot;The Shadow Rising&quot; marks a turning  point for this series, and one for the better.  There are moments--most  notably in the chapter entitled &quot;The Dedicated&quot;--when Jordanceases being derivative long enough to be what seems to me genuinely  inventive.  While his central characters are spun to the four corners of  his imaginary land in a manner similar to &quot;The Dragon Reborn&quot; or  &quot;The Great Hunt,&quot; for once Jordan is under no compunction to  hastily arrange for their simultaneous meeting in one particular locale at  the end.  And it is no small thing that for once I was wrong in a  prediction; Jordan's first in-depth exploration of the Aiel society  surprised me, if only because I was very much expecting a simple copy of  the Fremen from Frank Herbert's &quot;Dune.&quot;  Beyond such high points,  most of the action amounts to the sort of wish-fulfillment that  characterizes most of the genre; in other words, whether you imagine  yourself in the place of Rand, of Perrin, of Elayne or anyone else, Jordan  will make you feel good about what you...er, the characters...have  accomplished.<br />Jordan is not the finest writer you will ever read, but he  puts together a competent enough narrative.  If you enjoyed the first three  books in this series, you'll love this one; if you didn't enjoy them, you  probably didn't make it this far, and you're not reading this review.   Enjoy your new doorstop.	2000-06-19
US	51987107	RAUOQ7ESILSWM	0812513711	820960971	The Dragon Reborn (The Wheel of Time, Book 3)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Slickly written and plotted like a soap opera	Robert Jordan's still-growing mega-series \\"The Wheel of Time\\" is a flatly derivative venture. Notwithstanding the basic concept (an epic fantasy of struggle against a supernatural Dark Lord in an imaginary world of swords and sorcerers), which so obviously is owed to Tolkien, it is not hard to identify passages or scenes in each of the first three books of this series that have been borrowed (or, if you prefer, \\"stolen\\") wholesale from movies, television series and other forms of popular culture. Robert Jordan has put a great deal of thought into fleshing out his imaginary lands, the people who inhabit them and the rules under which they act, but there should be no mistaking this author for something original; he has mixed inputs from a number of sources and has little to say that is truly his own.<br />The salient question for someone thinking about reading this book, though, is does any of that matter? At this point, decades after Tolkien's \\"Lord of the Rings\\" first saw print, it is unlikely that anyone who reads epic fantasy does so with the aim of discovering real originality; it is more likely that the reader is looking for a whiz-bang good time, a fast-paced page turner, a vehicle of pure escapist entertainment. It is on that level that all of \\"The Wheel of Time,\\" including this volume (#3), is to be evaluated.<br />In this light, Jordan both succeeds and fails. His story chugs along nicely. He brings his characters into confrontation with suitably serious dangers and brings them out satisfactorily (which is to say, no one of any import is going to die). His descriptions are competent, and (as I have written before of the earlier two volumes in this series) his imaginary world lives and breathes as well as, or better than, any of his characters, and this in large part is the point of epic fantasy. On the other hand, giving Rand al'Thor the status of the \\"Dragon Reborn,\\" with all the prophetic/magical baggage that title implies, results in an anticlimactic ending (is there any doubt as to whether or not he'll be able to reach the magic sword to vanquish his enemy?) that seems earned about as much as a lottery win. The characters are so single-minded and resistant to change as to test the patience of any reader, and there is little time spent letting us get truly acquainted with them; plot is everything. The plot in this case is more complex than in \\"Eye of the World\\" or \\"Great Hunt,\\" both of which were basically extended chases, but it still amounts to a series of events designed to pull each of the players (in four distinct groups) to the same city at the same time such that the last three chapters can unfold the way Jordan intends.<br />If you're getting the impression that I hated this book, don't, because I did enjoy it; I could not have slogged through three 700-page books without enjoying them on some level. Robert Jordan is nearly to epic fantasy what Stephen King is to horror or Tom Clancy to techno-thrillers; what this means is that his books are the equivalent of a theme park thrill ride: a good time is had by all, and you want to get in line for more, but the thrills are brief and short-lived, and won't stay with you for long--only until the next installment of the series.	2000-06-12
US	51987107	R3ER5V9BDB5SR1	089480829X	874075168	What to Expect When You're Expecting	Books	5	6	12	N	N	A wonderful reference for first-timers	I am genuinely surprised at the middling average rating this book has thus far achieved on this web site; my wife and I have utilized this book as our primary (though not only) reference for the nine months of her pregnancy  (our first), and we have found it invaluable.  Every physical tic or  symptom my wife experienced is documented within these pages.  The book is  clearly and comprehensively written, but most importantly it is largely  free of sermonizing or partiality.  Most passages are careful to take into  account the full range of possible experiences an expecting couple might  have.  The lone exception to this would be the book's harping on diet--I'm  not sure how many times I or any other reader needs to be reminded that  &quot;fruit-juice-sweetened&quot; muffins are nutritionally superior to  those sweetened with refined sugar, or purchased in packages and thus  likely to harbor artificial flavor enhancers or preservatives.  Then again,  the diet recommended is called the &quot;best odds&quot; diet for a  reason--flout their recommendations as much as you want, and you are still  likely to have a healthy baby, but the chances of problems occurring could  increase.<br />In any case, if like me you are expecting (or hoping to expect)  your first child, and you're feeling a little clueless as to what lies  ahead, I recommend this book without reservation.	2000-06-09
US	51987107	R1EGPQP16EUA81	0451402391	738816260	The Search for the Green River Killer	Books	4	24	27	N	N	A fine piece of journalism	Between the Summer of 1982 and Spring of 1984 someone, almost certainly a man, picked up at least 40 and perhaps as many as 60 young women, mostly prostitutes, strangled them and disposed of their bodies in various  locations in the Pacific northwest, predominantly in southern King County,  Washington.  Despite the efforts of a special police investigative unit  that developed a proficiency in forensic techniques that would later prove  useful in countless other investigations, and that had the lessons of Ted  Bundy nearly a decade before to draw upon, this killer was never caught,  and to this day his identity and final fate remains unknown.  This book is  an essentially journalistic account (in the modern sense, in which a  description of the facts is coupled closely with a subjective evaluation of  them) of the investigation of the &quot;Green River&quot; murders (so named  because the first victims found were disposed of in the Green River, though  most others were found elsewhere).   Thus we read about the victims, who  they were and in some cases how they drifted into prostitution and/or drug  use, when they were last seen and with whom, when their absence first came  to the attention of the police or the Green River investigators.  We read  of the detectives themselves, of the leads they followed, the manner in  which they were forced to learn about the lives of prostitutes and the  violence routinely directed against them, the political conflicts that  occasionally helped but more often hindered their investigation, the  forensic approaches they learned and perfected, the mistakes they made, the  attempts to find links between the Green River murders and similar slayings  occurring elsewhere, such as Portland and San Diego.  We read of the  occasional suspects, the coincidences or other apparent evidence that led  the police to them, and the frustrating regularity with which they were  always exonerated.<br />What we do not read about at all, of course, is the  killer himself; in a book of true crime, this is both a blessing and a  curse.  A blessing because we are largely spared the psychological  mumbo-jumbo that might otherwise have dominated such an account, and as a  result we are presented only with the basic descriptions of  &quot;profiling&quot; as practiced in the 1980's by the FBI, and  generalizations regarding the psychology of serial murderers.  A curse  because the real subject of the narrative, the one character we do want to  know about most, never makes it onto the stage.  It is perhaps a testament  to the skills of these writers that we as readers experience some measure  of the frustration that must have gripped the detectives on the  case.<br />Unlike other reviewers of this book, I don't see how this book is  &quot;horrifying&quot; or otherwise comparable to anything in the suspense  or crime genre.  While the crimes described were certainly horrendous, they  were committed 20 years ago, the victims almost uniformly possessed a very  specific profile that most readers will not fit, and most of the book is  concerned not with the crimes themselves (which were never witnessed in any  case) but with the investigation of them, which is a much less sensational  and much more tedious process to describe.  That these authors managed to  maintain my interest in such subject matter should stand as a sufficient  compliment to their skills.  This book is worth reading whether you are  interested in the Green River murders by themselves or police  investigations of this scale in general.	2000-06-08
US	51987107	R311XJBPSTS81Z	0812517725	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An improvement over the first book in the series	&quot;The Great Hunt,&quot; representing the second volume in Robert Jordan's apparently never-ending series &quot;The Wheel of Time,&quot; is a great deal like its predecessor, &quot;The Eye of World.&quot;  Jordan's  narrative style is the same (straightforward, linear, and utterly lacking  in judgement as to what to show and what not to show), his characters are  the same (resolutely refusing to change in any way, regardless of events),  and the basic story elements are the same (mostly an extended chase,  although in this case the heroes are the chasers rather than the chasees).   As before, the imaginary world Jordan has created lives and breathes more  convincingly than any of his characters, though it should be noted that  this is true for most writers in this particular genre.<br />&quot;The Great  Hunt&quot; does manage to improve on the first volume in several ways,  however.  While some of the devices Jordan employs to move his characters  around seem contrived (the Waygates and Stones, for example, are little  more than excuses for teleportation), he uses fewer of the &quot;deux ex  machina&quot; escapes from hopeless situations that characterized &quot;The  Eye of the World&quot;--though, of course, they are not eliminated  entirely.  The climactic meeting with the Dark One near the end of the  novel seems more like an earned outcome and less like a lottery win as it  did in the first book, though again, the lottery &quot;feel&quot; of the  ending is not entirely missing.  It is also in this volume that Jordan  gives the first hints of how complex he can make things, and how he'll be  able to stretch this series to 8+ books, with the introduction of the  Seanchan, the Black Ajah, the Aielmen and other elements.<br />Like all  writers of epic fantasy, Jordan owes an unpayable debt to Tolkien, and is  half the writer besides.  Still, I suppose the same could be said for this  book as I said about the first one:  if you go for this sort of thing  routinely, you'll enjoy this book.  Otherwise, this is not inspiring  material, but might be worth a read, if only to experience another fully  realized imaginary land.	2000-06-04
US	51987107	R2OIY2F5XTWX2X	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Typical derivative (but entertaining) King	In &quot;The Stand,&quot; King applies his signature style of writing and his usual cast of character types to what is, for him, a somewhat novel end:  a post-apocalyptic future setting for a battle between supernatural  forces of good and evil.  Much has been made of the premise of the book--a  super-virulent strain of flu virus is released and eliminates most of the  human race, and the few survivors are the participants in a battle of  magical powers--and I have little to add to the descriptions of this.  What  seems to go largely unrecognized, however, is that &quot;The Stand&quot; is  a transparent rewrite of J.R.R. Tolkien's &quot;The Lord of the  Rings.&quot;  Each character here can be identified with a character in  Tolkien's work (most notably Trashcan Man with Gollum), and most of the  plot of the latter book is replicated, albeit with a change of setting and  phrasing, by King.<br />King's literary act of thievery is an adept one--there  will undoubtedly be those who prefer his version to Tolkien's original,  most likely due to a preference for King's style of writing or the more  modern settings--but it is thievery nevertheless.  Contrary to what many  other reviewers (see below) have stated, the characters here are not  terribly distinguishable from the characters in any of King's other novels,  and the episode of (in King's own words) &quot;literary elephantiasis&quot;  that resulted in this book's gargantuan length ensures that this is not the  book that I would recommend for anyone thinking of reading their first King  novel (that distinction would go to &quot;The Shining.&quot;)  It is  nevertheless a fast and entertaining read worth a few stars, more or less.	2000-05-29
US	51987107	R3OWF6ZRUACORB	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	3	23	28	N	N	The good and bad of Tolkien's genre is all here	J.R.R. Tolkien did not invent the genre of epic fantasy, but it should go without saying that &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; is the standard by which all such works are judged.  All the common ingredients of the genre  can be found in &quot;The Eye of the World&quot;--naive rural folk thrust  into a world of adventure and intrigue; innumerable characters who are  (inevitably) more than they seem; powerful and magical forces of good and  evil, and politically motivated people who confuse one with the other.   Those who always love this sort of thing (as there are readers who love  romances, or mysteries) may as well stop reading this review right  now--this is exactly what you're expecting, and Jordan delivers &quot;the  goods.&quot;<br />If, however, like me, you tend to dabble in epic fantasy and  don't read every trilogy (or octology--it should be noted that Jordan's  &quot;Wheel of Time&quot; series, of which this is the first volume, stands  at eight books now and shows no signs of letting up), there are other  considerations to make.  First, are his characters interesting?  Certainly,  enough of the blurb-writers on the book jacket think highly of Jordan's  characterizations, but anyone familiar with good mainstream fiction will  recognize the stereotypes from which all of his characters are built.   While not exactly cardboard cut-outs, neither are these living, breathing  characters with which we as readers can empathize.<br />Second, is the plot  engaging?  This has to be Jordan's biggest failing.  His narrative is  entirely paint-by-numbers, which is to say that he moves linearly from one  event to the next.  He makes no choices as to what to show and what not to  show--everything that happens is presented in equal measure.  His few  attempts at nonlinearity are clumsy and irritating.  The events themselves  rely on &quot;deus ex machina&quot; more often than I was able to count;  Jordan paints his characters into hopeless situations over and over, thenextricates them with miraculous rescues or fortuitous coincidences.  In the  context of the fantasy, he can perhaps fall back on &quot;so the Wheel has  weaved,&quot; or in the main characters' magical powers, hidden or not, but  too often my disbelief couldn't be suspended and Jordan's plot points  seemed like cop-outs.<br />That said, as in most epic fantasies the world  Jordan has created is far more of a living, breathing creature than any of  his characters, and might be worth experiencing, at least for one book.   Also intriguing is the unusually strong role played by women in Jordan's  world.  If you have a taste for epic fantasy, this book will remind you all  too often of Tolkien, and the comparison does not favor Mr. Jordan.  Still,  this author has thought things through enough to maintain some interest.	2000-05-29
US	51987107	RDAF85GNL7QM5	0963916122	954018962	Cosmic Test Tube: Extraterrestrial Contact, Theories & Evidence	Books	3	25	28	N	N	A useful (and often funny) compendium	By his own account, Randall Fitzgerald put &quot;Cosmic Test Tube&quot; together due to his frustration with what he sees as the extremes of irrationality represented by most UFO believers and UFO skeptics alike.  To  that end, he provides summaries of literally hundreds of published books  concerned with all aspects of the UFO phenomenon--ancient astronauts, UFO  sightings, contactees and abductees, crop circles, cattle mutilations, and  even the works of skeptics like Philip Klass and Curtis Peebles.  By and  large, these summaries are presented with a straight face and with no  editorial or other subjective comment, although in the case of some books  that I have also read I believe his selection of what to emphasize may not  completely dovetail with what is emphasized in the books themselves.  Since  nearly all of &quot;Cosmic Test Tube&quot; is made up of these entries, one  can view this book as a sort of &quot;Cliffs Notes&quot; on UFOlogy.<br />The  book is divided into several convenient sections (ancient astronauts,  general UFO sightings, contactees and abductees, and skeptics), and each  section is preceded by an article-length discussion of one or a few of the  subjects covered by the entries within.  So, for example, the section on  ancient astronauts is preceded by a more substantive and editorialized  discussion of the so-called &quot;monuments&quot; of Mars and of Robert  Temple's &quot;Sirius Mystery,&quot; in which it is claimed that the Dogon  tribe in West Africa possesses astronomical knowledge that could only have  been obtained by the use of a telescope; similarly, the section for  skeptical works is preceded by a discussion of the evidence (or lack  thereof) for an extraterrestrial connection to crop circles and cattle  mutilations.<br />&quot;Cosmic Test Tube&quot; is genuinely entertaining in  places--many of the summaries of UFO-related works are quite funny,  especially when presented in such a deadpan manner.  It isn't clear to me,  however, exactly how &quot;Cosmic Test Tube&quot; points to some sort of  &quot;middle way&quot; between believers and skeptics, especially when all  it does is reproduce the basic arguments of each side with little in the  way of real evaluation.  And, of course, it should go without saying that  in the modern age of the internet not all of the pertinent information is  to be found solely in published books--for example, the paranoia and  self-delusion evident in Richard Hoagland's &quot;The Monuments of  Mars&quot; pales in comparison with the fantasies and conspiracy-mongering  to be found on his web site for &quot;The Enterprise  Mission.&quot;<br />Regardless, those with more than a casual interest in  UFOlogy will find in &quot;Cosmic Test Tube&quot; a useful reference work  that will point them toward other, more detailed books on whatever subject  they find most interesting.	2000-05-27
US	51987107	R2MFND6F3OGM4R	0609802232	333501354	The Mars Mystery: The Secret Connection Between Earth and the Red Planet	Books	1	16	35	N	N	A strange amalgam of verities and balderdash	&quot;The Mars Mystery&quot; is for the most part typical Graham Hancock.  Like &quot;Fingerprints of the Gods,&quot; &quot;Heaven's Mirror,&quot; and his other works, Hancock collects an oddball mixture of the subset of real  science that suits his preconceptions with a selection of pseudoscientific  speculations made by other writers, all of which he ties together into what  is meant to be a coherent whole.  In this case, Hancock's major concern  (which belies the book's title) is the potential imminence of a cometary  impact on the Earth in the near future.  As far as a &quot;Mars  Mystery&quot; is concerned, the strange surface features located at the  Cydonia region on Mars are covered and cited as possible evidence of an  ancient, advanced Martian civilization that was wiped out by a major  cataclysm, potentially a cometary impact.  To this end, Hancock also  presents a summary of Martian geology, but with his own signature  overspeculation coloring the proceedings throughout; for example, he muses  on the possibility that the enormous, nearly planet-wrecking impact that  resulted in the formation of the Hellas plain on Mars could conceivably  have occurred as recently as 10,000 years ago, at the same time as smaller  impacts on Earth may have contributed to the end of the last Ice Age.  Regardless, those looking for an exhaustive discussion of ancient Martian  civilization, and its &quot;message&quot; to modern humanity, will find  nothing here not summarized by Hoagland, Carlotto, McDaniel or  others.<br />Hancock's rather considerable defects as a putative writer of  &quot;nonfiction&quot; are more obvious here than in any of his other  works; in fact, reading this book can be instructive in revealing the more  skillful deceptions he has practiced elsewhere, such as in  &quot;Fingerprints of the Gods.&quot;  In order to arrive at his  thesis--that Mars (and, less violently, Earth) was subject to a horrendous  bombardment by cometary debris, perhaps as recently as 10,000 years ago,  which resulted in its odd Janus-faced appearance and distinctive plantary  geology, and incidentally may have destroyed a teeming ecosystem and even  an advanced civilization on the planet in the bargain--Hancock piles  speculation upon speculation to the point of absurdity.  I honestly can't  see how anyone could fail to perceive the fundamental flaws in the  narrative he constructs; certainly, the man is guilty of inconsistency--if  the same long odds apply to the coincidence of so many odd features at  Cydonia in order to rule out a natural explanation, how can they not also  rule out Hancock's reconstruction of Mars' history?<br />Beyond shaky logic,  however, &quot;The Mars Mystery&quot; is an aptly Janus-faced book as well.  The juxtaposition of the sections on Martian geology and cometary impacts  with the pseudoscience surrounding the spectacular over-analysis of the few  existing photographs of the Cydonia region never seems appropriate.  [I  should note here, as Hancock does in a preface to the American edition of  this book, that the former sections were written by Hancock, while the  latter sections were written by an assistant of his named John Grigsby.  Why Mr. Grigsby is not a co-author on the jacket is beyond me.]  The two or  three chapters concerning a &quot;link&quot; between Cydonia and monuments  on Earth (such as Stonehenge, Giza, Teotihuacan, etc.) are ridiculous,  consisting as they do entirely of worthless number games (finding pi, phi  and other mathematical constants in certain measurements of these sites)  that are more likely a reflection of the expectations of the  &quot;researchers&quot; than of the characteristics of the sites  themselves.<br />The threat to Earth, and more importantly to modern  civilization, presented by the possibility of cometary impact is a real  one, with a basis in real observations.  One cannot help but agree with  those portions of Hancock's thesis in which he laments the lack of acoherent international approach to the problem of Earth-crossing asteroids  and comets.  One simply wishes that in this case such an argument was not  also lumped together with Martian &quot;monuments&quot; and advanced  civilizations in antiquity that weaken it by association.a  coherent international approach to the problem of Earth-crossing asteroids  and comets.  One simply wishes that in this case such an argument was not  also lumped together with Martian &quot;monuments&quot; and advanced  civilizations in antiquity that weaken it by association.	2000-05-16
US	51987107	RE2GNTZT45HSS	1573922447	520460057	Alien Abductions: Creating a Modern Phenomenon	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A thoughtful analysis.	There are aspects of Terry Matheson's approach that are a touch disingenuous.  For example, early on the author claims that he is less concerned with the physical reality or unreality of the individual accounts  that make up the abduction phenomenon than he is with the thematic  development of these accounts over time.  In a sense, this is accurate, in  that the major thrust of this book is that the abduction phenomenon  represents a modern form of mythmaking, and that by documenting the history  of these accounts as they emerge we can gain insight into myth and folklore  in general.  In another sense, however, such a thrust seems to go  hand-in-hand with an assumption that there is no physical reality to  abduction phenomena, and that abductees and the well-meaning (or perhaps  just self-aggrandizing) popular writers who disseminate the legend are  participants in a grand game of make-believe.  That Matheson makes just  such an assumption is, I think, obvious throughout the book.  The hemming  and hawing that goes on, to the effect that we may need to  &quot;discard&quot; our notions of what is real and what is not, amounts to  little more than a fey attempt at postmodernist baloney.<br />The text itself  involves analyses of the works of Raymond Fowler, Whitley Strieber, Budd  Hopkins, John Mack, and others who have taken the lead in popularizing the  abduction phenomenon.  Matheson deconstructs the narratives of each of  these writers quite well; the effect is much the same as has been  accomplished by deconstructions of biblical texts.  I imagine that  Matheson's efforts will have about as much of an influence on true  believers, however, as those who have pointed out the blatant  inconsistencies in the bible have had on Christian fundamentalists.  For  those straddling the fence, however, this is a valuable book that can in  all likelihood substitute for reading the actual source material.<br />While  &quot;Alien Abductions&quot; probably qualifies as a debunking effort,  Matheson often shows restraint in his criticisms; somehow, while never  degenerating into name-calling or other nastiness, Matheson effectively  conveys the level of delusion embodied by both the abductees and the  abduction &quot;researchers.&quot;  The book makes for a quick read and I  highly recommend it.	2000-05-12
US	51987107	R273KNLPC4VK9M	0753806797	6815183	Eden in the East: The Drowned Continent of Southeast Asia	Books	3	44	49	N	N	Intriguing and worthwhile, but too little editing.	The central theme of &quot;Eden in the East&quot; is derived from the fact that island southeast Asia, or more correctly the now mostly submerged Sunda shelf, was actually an extensive subcontinent, comparable in size to India, during the last Ice Age.  Oppenheimer summarizes one current  understanding of how the Ice Age ended--that is, not slowly, but in three  quite dramatic and rapid melts that resulted in severe flooding and perhaps  even substantial seismic activity and tsunamis.  Thus, the Sunda  subcontinent was subjected to a series of horrendous cataclysms, the last  one occurring circa 8000-7000 B.C.  After this introduction to the climatic  facts of the case, the first half of the book is devoted to an examination  of genetic and linguistic evidence, or rather to Oppenheimer's own  re-examination of this evidence, with the conclusion that Ice Age Sundaland  harbored a thriving neolithic culture that dispersed throughout the Pacific  and into most of Eurasia subsequent to its flooding, and thus that much of  Western civilization can be expected to be derived, or at least influenced,  by this antediluvian culture.  The second half of the book is entirely  concerned with a comparative analysis of several myths that exist in  recognizable forms throughout most of the world, including Noah's flood,  creation myths, Cain and Abel, and the dying god who is resurrected.   Again, Oppenheimer argues that the evidence indicates an origin for each of  these basic myths in neolithic southeast Asia.<br />I am not really qualified  to argue with Oppenheimer's analyses; then again, the author is himself a  pediatrician with no apparent formal training in linguistics, genetics, or  anthropology.  Be that as it may, I found his ideas highly intriguing, and  a reading of this book reveals him to be completely unlike most of the  recent spate of speculative (and very silly) pseudoarchaeologists,  concerned as they are with finding Atlantis or some other vision of a  long-lost but highly advanced ancient civilization.  Unlike the  &quot;work&quot; of Rand Flem-Ath or Graham Hancock, what is presented here  at least seems reasonable and worthy of intelligent debate.  Not the least  of the reasons for this is the fact that Oppenheimer is arguing for the  existence of an influential neolithic culture, not an enlightened  antediluvian civilization.  Much of what he argues could still be wrong,  and probably is, but at least something interesting might come of the  discussion.<br />The drawbacks of this book are mostly editorial:  Oppenheimer  is not a gifted writer, and the prose is sometimes tortured enough to give  pause.  Additionally, the book as a whole, especially the second half  dealing with comparative mythology, is entirely too long.  I found myself  nearly nodding off during the recitations of various  &quot;dying-and-rising-tree-god&quot; myths from around the islands of  southeast Asia.  Beyond this, little attention seems to be paid to the  provenance of the many myths recounted in this book; one wonders if the  &quot;warring brothers&quot; (Cain and Abel) or Adam and Eve stories in  southeast Asia could not have been introduced by Christian missionaries,  despite Oppenheimer's protestations.  Overall, though, this is a book worth  reading, or at least skimming.	2000-05-01
US	51987107	R1VNGYTKBYN8OK	0671020749	890233300	The A to Z Encyclopedia of Serial Killers (Pocket Books True Crime)	Books	3	29	31	N	N	Morbidly fascinating, but not quite &quot;A-Z&quot;	A quick caveat for starters:  after reading this book in one quick sitting, I feel a little disturbed.  If the parade of violence and deviant sexual behavior that this book presents fails to have a similar effect upon you, then you are either jaded or deviant yourself.  By themselves, the  descriptions of the childhood home lives of most of the killers described  within these pages are horrifying beyond belief.<br />That said, the authors  touch on every aspect of serial murder with which I was previously  familiar, as well as a great deal more.  The only problem is that you will  have to read the book cover to cover to find most of it.  Juan Corona, for  example, is to be found only under the entry &quot;Orchards&quot; (? ),  apparently because many of his victims were buried in them.  The only other  apparent reason for this entry is a murder case, also involving corpse  disposal in an orchard, that has nothing whatsoever to do with serial  killers.  One must look in similarly obscure entries to find the Green  River killer (still the most prolific American serial killer in terms of  confirmed victims), the notorious 16th-century French nobleman Gilles de  Rais, whose behavior parallels that of some modern serial killers quite  closely (with the exception of his high position in society), or South  America's Pedro Lopez, the &quot;Monster of the Andes.&quot;<br />In short,  this is not an encyclopedia that is meant as a real reference work of any  sort; the &quot;encyclopedia&quot; aspect is merely a convenient format  that the authors use to relate capsule-sized anecdotes and factoids.  A  distinct bias in the entries is also obvious--the reader is treated to  mention of Ed Gein, Albert Fish and H.H. Holmes over and over again, most  likely because Harold Schechter has previously written books about them.   [Notably, Albert Fish, who also is given his own entry, is the only reason  for another entry entitled &quot;X-Rays,&quot; so that we can for the  second timeread about the needles he inserted into his pelvis.]   Notwithstanding the frustrations the reader will encounter with the  organization of this book, Schechter and Everitt provide a breezy  read--that is, if you can take the subject matter breezily--and their book  is morbidly entertaining.	2000-05-01
US	51987107	R2OQNBFDI8RZBR	0679740678	67210777	The Man in the High Castle	Books	4	20	25	N	N	Transcends its genre.	Philip K. Dick, as some reading this might be aware, was a science fiction writer whose stories served (loosely) as the basis for the films &quot;Blade Runner&quot; and &quot;Total Recall.&quot;  His short fiction exemplifies the maxim that science fiction is a &quot;literature of  ideas.&quot;  The &quot;idea&quot; behind &quot;The Man in the High  Castle&quot; is that of the alternative history:  the Axis powers actually  prevailed in World War II, and modern-day America (meaning, in this case,  the 1960's, when the book was first published) has been roughly split into  two spheres of influence, German and Japanese.<br />How pleasantly surprising,  then, to discover that this central &quot;idea&quot; is nothing more than a  backdrop; that while plot and characters are certainly shaped by the  imagined circumstances, the actual concern of the book is not the situation  but the people within it.  As a result, rather than reading as a  description of an alternate reality, we are treated to a full experience of  lives in a world that differs profoundly from our own.  As a result, this  novel is more than just science fiction.  It succeeds in transcending the  genre ghetto and meriting consideration among the best of modern  writing.<br />Examples of how carefully, and how well, this book was thought  out are too numerous to list, but one example:  the titular &quot;Man&quot;  is an American maverick writer of an alternative history in which America  and its allies prevail in World War II.  How simple, how convenient it  would have been to have this  alternative-history-within-an-alternative-history perfectly reflect our own  reality.  But it isn't so; the imagined history is completely different.   Brilliantly conceived and executed, this is a truly rewarding book.	2000-04-29
US	51987107	R2A8ED8PNKB8NK	0440236134	524836453	The Roswell UFO Crash: What They Don't Want You to Know	Books	2	41	57	N	N	Correct, but highly annoying.	Kal K. Korff (a name that presents one of the more regrettable monograms in authordom) is the sort of person who very much enjoys being right, and in &quot;The Roswell UFO Crash,&quot; he is certainly right.  He is most  likely correct in his evaluation of the &quot;eyewitness&quot; testimony  presented by those who would have us believe that an alien spacecraft  crashed in the New Mexico desert (unreliable at best, fraudulent at worst),  in his presentation of the formerly top-secret balloons of Project Mogul as  the prosaic explanation for what actually crashed on Mac Brazel's farm in  1947, in his strident debunking of Philip Corso's &quot;Day After  Roswell&quot; fiction, in his exposing of the &quot;Alien Autopsy&quot;  video as a clumsy hoax, and in his overall assessment of the scientific  validity of the existing evidence for extraterrestrial visitation of our  planet (nonexistent, that is).<br />All of this doesn't make Korff's  presentation more palatable.  He is by turns egotistical, pedantic and  condescending.  His prose is uninspired, usually tending toward a  breathless, overheated style exemplified by the crass overuse of  exclamation points and italics for emphasis.  If you ever wondered what a  skeptic would sound like if he wrote in the same infantile manner that  commonly characterizes the true UFO believers, this book provides the  answer.<br />Beyond issues of style, however, Korff's logic is prone to  harboring rather wide gaps, so all too often when he states that an  assertion of the UFO believers has been proven untrue, he's not entirely  correct.  Furthermore, the more substantive contributions to debunking the  Roswell myth appear to be derived from the work of others, most notably  Robert Todd.  After reading the extensive quotes from Todd's work in this  book, I rather wished that he had written &quot;The Roswell UFO Crash&quot;  rather than Korff.  As it is, Philip Klass' &quot;The Real Roswell Crashed  Saucer Cover-Up,&quot; while failing to cover as much ground as this book,  is a much more satisfying read.<br />One final note:  the packaging of the  mass-market paperback version of this book is downright deceptive.  One  could read both covers and the introduction without realizing that this  represented the work of a skeptic/debunker.  I suppose this might be a  useful way of roping in readers who would otherwise pass it over, but  coupled with Korff's style of writing it contributes to the overall sordid  feel of the whole affair.	2000-04-21
US	51987107	RTPMEUYCNS5MW	1883319463	929117346	Architects of the Underworld: Unriddling Atlantis, Anomalies of Mars, and the Mystery of the Sphinx	Books	1	23	38	N	N	Execrable.	A brief review of the other entries already here leaves me incredulous; how any rational human could come away from a reading of this book and believe for a moment that is \\"packed with proof\\" or somehow constitutes \\"rock-solid\\" or \\"extensive\\" research escapes me completely. To summarize: in this book Bruce Rux endeavors to collect a selection of \\"evidence\\" for the reality of a UFO phenomenon with an extraterrestrial, or at least super-technological, origin, to relate this UFO phenomenon to notions of \\"ancient astronauts,\\" or of an advanced civilization lost in antiquity (i.e. Atlantis), and to tie the whole thing up into a coherent bundle. That he fails in this enterprise has less to do with lack of ambition than with unrestrained paranoia, with a lack of critical thinking, and of course with the poor quality of the \\"evidence\\" with which he is forced to work.<br />Said evidence consists, as it always does in the field of UFOlogy, with personal accounts, with testimony (inevitably from UFOlogists) to the credibility of the accountees. I was continually struck by how much some of the accounts Rux relates reminded me of dreams and other sleep-related experiences; I was similarly struck by Rux's complete inability to recognize such similarities and pursue them, as compared to his willingness to jump to far wilder and more improbable \\"explanations.\\" Of course, if Rux had thought more about more prosaic explanations, he wouldn't have much of a book: a book of psychology would likely require some expertise and training in a specific field, while ruminations on automata crafted by an alien race to abduct humans and perform fertilization experiments on them require nothing more than a word processor. Also striking about this work is Rux's repeated denunciations of noted UFOlogists; after a certain point, one starts to wonder if there are any UFOlogists that Rux does not believe are secretly in the employ of the government cabal responsible for the UFO cover-up.<br />In essence, this is a book by an \\"armchair UFOlogist.\\" I do not mean this as a slur--what am I, after all, but an armchair reviewer?--but rather to emphasize that this represents not a careful collection of evidence, but a summary of selected accounts and of the \\"research\\" of other people, leading to an elucidation of the author's own pet theories. Thus, when Rux writes of the Sphinx, the pyramids or ancient civilization, he is simply regurgitating, with little in the way of critical thought, the prior speculations of Zecharia Sitchin, among others. All of Sitchin's errors are thus reproduced faithfully here, as are the errors of many others. What this implies is that in writing this book Rux was not evaluating data to determine if it was genuine or not; rather, he was picking out those lines of \\"evidence\\" that he liked and ignoring the rest. In short, what Rux practices is at best crank science, and at worst simple confabulation.<br />\\"Architects of the Underworld\\" is a breezy read, which makes it all the easier to spot the author's lapses. As an illustration of self-delusion and faulty logic, this book may be instructive. There is no other reason to recommend it.	1999-11-27
US	51987107	R20NYTHFUL7P51	0500050848	754206777	The Complete Pyramids: Solving the Ancient Mysteries	Books	3	91	102	N	N	A useful reference book for the layperson.	&quot;The Complete Pyramids&quot; is a gorgeous book, resplendent with photographs, diagrams and computer-generated images, and serves well as a near-comprehensive reference work on the pyramids of Egypt (that is, _all_  of them, not simply the Giza complex) for the layperson.  The writing is  less than inspiring but still serviceable, and the presentation will most  definitely satisfy the &quot;USA Today&quot;-style at-a-glance needs of  many people.  For example, Lehner includes a rendered-to-scale figure of  all of the pyramids of Egypt in cross-section, to give an idea of the  chronology and scope of pyramid-building throughout Egyptian history.  As a  compendium of the conclusions and currently predominant ideas of modern  Egyptology, this book probably has few peers.<br />Lehner often fails,  however, to convey a real sense of the methodology involved in reaching  these conclusions.  Too often, we are told of the likely functions of  specific features of the pyramids or their surrounding complexes without  being told of the basis by which Egyptologists assign these functions.  One  notable exception to this is Lehner's treatment of recent attempts to  elucidate the methods by which the pyramids were built.  Perhaps this is  due to Lehner's direct participation in such projects, but the relative  care taken to explain the current state of knowledge regarding ancient  Egyptian pyramid-building techniques stands in contrast to the lack of  explication given to far too many other subjects.  Thus, by comparison Paul  Jordan's &quot;Riddles of the Sphinx&quot; is a superior work in this  regard, if less focused on the pyramids.<br />The inclusion of such reasoning  is necessary if only because the popular literature is so littered with  &quot;alternative&quot; (most often, crank) views in which the pyramids are  constructed by aliens or lost &quot;Atlantean&quot; civilizations of  greater antiquity than Egypt.  It would seem reasonable in such an  atmosphere to provide the reader with the rationale for the modern  archaeological view in addition to an exposition of it.  Along these lines,  Robert Bauval's &quot;Orion&quot; hypothesis for the alignment of the Giza  pyramids merits a few sentences, but no substantive discussion is given to  it.  Perhaps my recent reading material has given me a particular bias, but  even without having to answer the claims of &quot;alternative&quot; cranks,  &quot;The Complete Pyramids&quot; would have benefited from more discussion  of method along with the conclusions.  Still, this is a fine book, and I  recommend it.	1999-10-01
US	51987107	R34IAEL0BY64JJ	0671690302	502388049	Depraved	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Interesting and entertaining	\\"Depraved\\" tells the story, at least so far as it can be known (and perhaps a little farther than it can be known) of Harold Mudgett, alias H.H. Holmes (among others), who the book jacket will tell you was \\"America's first serial killer.\\" I seriously doubt that he was, but the story is fascinating nevertheless. Holmes was a career con man who, using credit only as a source of financing, built a strange and imposing edifice in suburban Chicago ca. 1890 called \\"The Castle.\\"  He was a relentless schemer, dreaming up numerous quack inventions along with real-estate and insurance scams. His more sinister crimes, however, included at least nine murders, usually of his mistresses but including one of his co-conspirators and three of the man's children. This alone makes for an amoral monster, but the odd architecture of \\"The Castle\\"--with its airtight safe, asbestos-lined rooms, and greased chutes to a cellar containing vats of chemicals and a furnace fit for cremation, hinted at even more sinister deeds. Unfortunately, most of these crimes must remain the subject of speculation, as Holmes was an inveterate liar whose confessions were wholly unreliable, and little evidence of any additional murders actually exists. This naturally has not stopped Schechter from noting that some writers have estimated Holmes' body count at more than 100 people.<br />Like all of Schecter's books, this one refrains from a dry or staid recitation of the facts as they are known. Although these are woven into the narrative skillfully enough, it is clear that Schechter is of the school of biographers/historians who freely mix fact with \\"re-creation,\\" or to put it more honestly, \\"fiction.\\" Although he steps back now and then to note that we cannot know what was going through his mind at such-and-such time, a great deal of extrapolation went into this book. Nevertheless, I would hesitate to say that anything here is falsified or sensationalized. The writing is nothing inspired by muses, but chugs along at a breezy pace. Perhaps the most surprising fact to me is that Holmes is not as notorious today as he was then, or as other serial murderers are now. Overall, an interesting and entertaining bit of crime history.	1999-09-11
US	51987107	R26CLUTF8FTOXR	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	1	56	91	N	N	The central argument is simply wrong.	I reviewed this book once before (see some distance below), but since that time I became interested enough to look over the web for other information. Those who truly wish to read serious and substantive evaluation of Behe's  arguments are strongly advised to read H. Allen Orr's review of  &quot;Darwin's Black Box,&quot; Behe's response, and Orr's reply to Behe's  response, all of which can be found on the web site for the Boston Review.   A full and more eloquent exposition of many of the same arguments that I  originally made in this forum some time ago can be found there.<br />But, to  summarize briefly:  the central argument of Behe's book is that biochemical  systems exist in nature that are &quot;irreducibly complex.&quot;  In the  complex cascade of proteins involved in the formation (and clearance) of  blood clots, removal of any single component of the pathway renders it  completely nonfunctional.  To use the popular simplification, a mousetrap  without the platform, the spring, or the bar does not simply lose _some_  functionality, but fails to work at all.  Behe's erroneous assertion is  that such systems cannot arise by gradual changes over time, as evolution  by natural selection would have it.  As Orr points out, however, Darwinian  evolution provides a ready explanation for the origin of such systems--a  single protein accomplishes a given function; the gene for this protein is  duplicated; subsequent changes to both proteins now create a requirement  for both.  This does not mean that originally the mousetrap &quot;worked  without all of its parts.&quot;  It means that the original mousetrap  worked differently with a single, or a few, parts, which subsequently  diverged to give the structure you know today as a mousetrap.  There are  additional ways of creating the mousetrap--the spring, originally part of  some other system, is recruited to the mousetrap system and is adapted to  it over time, for example.  Russ Doolittle, also on the Boston Reviewsite,  provides a wonderful elucidation of these principles using Behe's beloved  clotting factors:  removal of one factor from a mouse destroys the system,  resulting in death by hemorrhage; removal of another results in death by  clotting; but remove both, and the mouse lives a healthy life!<br />Once  Behe's central argument is seen to be false, there isn't much left to say.   The argument is wrong independent of any agenda Behe might have had in  forming it, so the creation vs. evolution debate doesn't concern us here.   What does concern us is Behe's decision to formulate a supposedly  scientific argument without educating himself in the relevant fields (the  evolution of irreducibly complex systems was addressed some time ago), and  then present it in popular form, thus avoiding the intellectual rigor  demanded by peer review.  This work, despite being authored by a  biochemist, should not be regarded as the product of the scientific method.   But then, I doubt any of the more enthusiastic of Behe's readers have any  desire to gain an appreciation for this.	1999-09-03
US	51987107	RSGTIZDY32JT6	0880642270	251129779	From Atlantis to the Sphinx	Books	1	13	20	N	N	Little here to redeem the crankery	To begin with a summary: Colin Wilson provides a breezy overview of the various intertwined threads that constitute what might generously be termed \\"alternative archaeology\\"--that is, the popular speculations of the likes of Graham Hancock, John Anthony West, Robert Bauval, the Flem-Aths and Robert Schoch regarding the existence of a far-ancient civilization, unacknowledged by conventional archaeologists, from whom Egypt and Sumer received their own knowledge as a legacy. From there, Wilson moves on to a summary of Cremo and Thompson's \\"Forbidden Archaeology,\\" and thus of the claim that anatomically modern humans have existed for millions of years, not tens to hundreds of thousands as conventional science would have it. Finally, Wilson gets to the \\"meat\\" of his own personal contribution to this \\"field,\\" namely his assertion that the evidence indicates that the mode of thought of ancient humans differed fundamentally from our own, reflecting an appreciation for (and partial mastery of) \\"magic\\" and the supernatural, and furthermore that our own evolution will not further proceed until we both understand this fact and incorporate this ancient way of thinking into our own.<br />If all Wilson was attempting was a philosophical or pseudo-religious treatise, I suppose all that would be left to do is shrug and say \\"I agree\\" or \\"I disagree.\\" But Wilson claims at every step that his arguments are based on empirical evidence, and it is after making such a claim that one can do more than just shrug, and can evaluate the validity of his arguments.  There is none to be found.  The overarching pattern of \\"From Atlantis to the Sphinx\\" is to subject any modern theory of conventional science to the strictest and most critical of evaluations, while the fringe alternatives are accepted with hardly a moment's consideration. For example, Wilson (like Hancock and others) takes Egyptologists to task for accepting the attribution of the Sphinx temple to the Pharoah Chephren based on the discovery of statues in his likeness within. On the other hand, we are supposed to take seriously the statement that modern science has somehow established that dolphins communicate by telepathy (and without any reference, either).<br />Wilson's skepticism regarding mainstream archaeology (not to mention most other scientific disciplines) contrasts spectacularly with his credulity regarding anything smacking of the paranormal. He lovingly relates the self-told tale of a South American explorer who experiences the \\"reality\\" of \\"hunting magic\\" and tribal \\"calling\\" of dolphins, and unwaveringly states that this is something that modern science simply cannot explain. No thought is expended on the possibility that the explorer may have been (1) lying; (2) truthful but under the influence of mind-altering chemicals; (3) utterly bamboozled by tribal magicians with generations of experience in fooling the gullible; (4) some combination of these.<br />Wilson's summary of the \\"evidence\\" for Atlantis, or the '90's version of it, makes for a light and easy read, but enthusiasts will probably want the real thing as written by the authors mentioned above and others. His summary of Cremo's work, even in a work of crankery such as this one, serves to elevate \\"Forbidden Archaeology\\" far beyond the level it deserves. Wilson's own hypothesizing regarding the nature of the ancient mind is essentially worthless due to his inability to think critically. Either Wilson is among the most gullible people in the world, or his more enthusiastic readers are. Whether you join them is entirely up to you.	1999-08-30
US	51987107	R1064R52BVX151	089281750X	688577859	The Sirius Mystery: New Scientific Evidence of Alien Contact 5,000 Years Ago	Books	1	14	21	N	N	Not much of value.	\\"The Sirius Mystery\\" begins with the superficially perplexing matter of Griaule and Dieterlen's published work on the Dogon tribe of West Africa.  They claim that the central teachings of the Dogon society include knowledge of the invisible white dwarf companion of Sirius (Sirius B), of a third companion star associated with the Sirius system, and of other astronomical matters, such as the moons of Jupiter, that could be known only by the use of a telescope. All of this knowledge, furthermore, is thought to predate European contact with the Dogon, and perhaps European knowledge of Sirius B as well. From this initial mystery, Temple plunges headlong into a lengthy and detailed consideration of similarities in words, characters and mythic tales among disparate ancient civilizations. This argument, which actually makes up most of the book, is intended to establish the antiquity of the \\"Sirius Mystery,\\" that in fact the knowledge of the Dogon is a legacy handed down since ancient Egyptian and Sumerian times. Temple comes to what he claims is a logical and reasonable conclusion--that ancient humans were the benefactors of knowledge and perhaps other influences bestowed by amphibious alien beings from the Sirius system.<br />In evaluating Temple's claims, we can begin with the Dogon. Other anthropologists have consistently failed to verify Griaule and Dieterlen's claims, which raises very serious questions about the central argument.  But, for now, let's assume that they had access to otherwise privileged (gnostic) wisdom of the tribe. Even then, it is notable that the supposed antiquity of Dogon lore regarding Sirius B is not established, and in fact it has been demonstrated that relatively recent introductions, such as the Christ story, can be incorporated into the fundamental tribal wisdom within a generation's time. Carl Sagan and others have suggested that knowledge of Sirius B was brought to the Dogon by prior explorers. Since Sirius, as the brightest star in the sky, can be expected to be extremely important in such a society, knowledge of an invisible companion would be deemed very important indeed. Sagan's idea stands without a shred of evidence for it (there is no knowledge of such prior explorers), but compared to visitation by amphibious aliens, it would seem to have the greater weight. This, of course, is dependent upon one's need to believe in wild things.<br />In any case, the extensive discussion of myth and language in disparate cultures seems weighty if only by virtue of length, and I have little doubt that at least some of the connections Temple draws are real. Others are more questionable, and it would be informative to hear from someone who actually studies ancient languages for a living as to how much of the word-play Temple deduces is just crankery. Temple's scholarship is certainly open to question. For example, the Dogon also believe in a third member of the Sirius system, and this most recent edition of \\"The Sirius Mystery\\" makes much of the discovery of a faint star near Sirius that confirms Dogon lore. If one checks the facts, one quickly finds that this star, though located near Sirius in the sky, is in fact several hundred light years away, and is no more a \\"member\\" of the Sirius system than our own sun. Mistakes like this one, assuming that they are mistakes, do not inspire confidence.<br />Neither do Temple's occasional references to his supposed persecution by the CIA, in which he strongly implies that the American government is attempting to undermine his work. In fact, even notwithstanding the conspiracy theories, \\"The Sirius Mystery\\" is rife with the hallmarks of crank science. The book is not especially well-written, and I imagine even the most enthusiastic believers in ancient extraterrestrial visitations will have some trouble getting through it, especially the denser sections on word meanings. Others with less of an emotional attachment to such notions are advised simply to steer clear. Thereis nothing here to justify claims of \\"earth-shattering\\" knowledge.	1999-08-26
US	51987107	R1SVRCR2UMY8Q7	0517887290	114266213	Fingerprints of the Gods	Books	3	42	64	N	N	Intriguing, fun and just plain silly	Graham Hancock is at this point perhaps the best known popularizer of what might generously be termed &quot;alternative archaeology,&quot; one of the major points of which is that civilization originated far earlier than  commonly thought, and was subsequently destroyed (i.e., Atlantis).  Then  again, this particular field is populated almost entirely by popularizers,  who with rare exceptions (Robert Schoch, perhaps Robert Bauval) are  unfamiliar or even hostile to establishment scientific principles such as  peer review.  Hancock's work is occasionally given to fits of pique at the  supposed monopoly that establishment archaeologists have on the  dissemination of knowledge; little understanding is shown of the simple  fact that in scientific journals all ideas are subject to review by other  scientists, and that if you wish to publish your views, you must present  convincing evidence for them.  Hancock and others like him should (and  probably do, at least in private) be gratified that, as the parade of  positive reviews of his books here on the Amazon.com web site attests, the  establishment view of archaeology enjoys no monopoly on ideas in the public  sphere, and in fact is if anything underrepresented.  For an illustration,  I would suggest that you go to your local bookstore and find something by  Hancock, West, Bauval, Schoch, Cremo, the Flem-Aths, Sitchin, von Daniken,  or Colin Wilson.  Now find the establishment archaeological view.  Which  was more prominent?  Which was there at all?<br />In any case,  &quot;Fingerprints of the Gods&quot; is Hancock's defining work (even after  the publication of its sequel, &quot;Heaven's Mirror&quot;) and provides  the most comprehensive summary of the &quot;evidence&quot; for a lost  civilization in antiquity as currently espoused by the above writers.  You  will find summarized here the notions that the Sphinx is far older than  modern archaeologists would like to think, that the pyramids may be as well  (which Hancock has since retracted, though he maintains that the ground  plan is still super-ancient), and that other monuments in Latin America  similarly speak of origins far in the distant past; that collected myths  and legends from peoples all over the world speak of a common origin, in a  civilization of great technical prowess that was destroyed by a worldwide  cataclysm (essentially a summary of de Santillana and von Dechend's  &quot;Hamlet's Mill,&quot; albeit with conclusions they did not reach);  that a series of old maps provides evidence of knowledge of the earth's  contours in remote antiquity (a summary of Charles Hapgood's &quot;Maps of  the Ancient Sea Kings&quot;); that the cataclysm in which this new vision  of Atlantis was lost could be repeated the next time the earth's crust  decides to shift (borrowed from Hapgood again).<br />It is a mistake to  consider anything that Hancock has done &quot;research,&quot; as several  other reviewers have done.  His work consists of travelling the world to  view ancient monuments and compiling the speculations of others.  What  results is often sloppy and inaccurate:  Hancock repeats verbatim an  assertion first made by Sitchin that early Egyptologist Howard Vyse forged  the &quot;quarry marks&quot; in the Great Pyramid that link it to the  pharoah Khafre, and this assertion has been rather conclusively proven  wrong (as Hancock has admitted).  Hancock also swallows whole the  long-discredited theory of &quot;earth crust displacement.&quot;   Proponents make much of the fact that Einstein apparently liked this  theory, but then Einstein was not a geologist, knew nothing of plate  tectonics, and was wrong many other times in his life.  Regardless, the  &quot;evidence&quot; for a massive, concerted shift of the entirety of the  earth's crust over such a short period has been completely invalidated by  modern science.  When Hancock mentions trees indicative of deciduous forest  buried in Antarctic ice, he fails to recognizethat these trees are  hundreds of thousands, if not millions of years old.  And so on.<br />It is  chiefly by presenting a relentlessly one-sided view of the  &quot;evidence&quot; he cites that Hancock creates the illusion of a  coherent argument.  In truth, the closer one looks at any single line of  evidence in &quot;Fingerprints,&quot; the less convincing it seems.  Too  many of Hancock's arguments rely on the inability to accept anything as  coincidence, and the almost pathological impulse to manufacture  coincidences where they may not actually exist.  Anyone reading this book  should be honor-bound to seek out the other side of the story--for example,  Paul Jordan's &quot;Riddles of the Sphinx&quot; provides an excellent  summary of how conventional archaeologists date the monuments of Egypt.  It  is not that difficult to find attempted refutations of most of Hancock's  arguments on the internet.  There is simply no excuse for taking  &quot;Fingerprints&quot; as the last word on any of its subjects.<br />This  book is typical of tracts of &quot;alternative archaeology&quot; (one  writer whose name escapes me termed pursuits such as these  &quot;pathological science&quot;) in that it often consists of first-person  narrative.  Hancock is a journalist and knows how to spin a tale for  greatest effect; readers such as myself, however, who are not fans of  travelogues may therefore find themselves impatient in certain sections.  I  give the book 3 stars simply for entertainment value--regardless of the  truth or falsity of what's in &quot;Fingerprints,&quot; it is fun to think  about in a science-fictional vein.  Those looking for the next paradigm  shift should be greatly disappointed.  _Should_ be, that is.	1999-08-10
US	51987107	RLD0GBRC3H11F	0451160916	966329377	The Shining (Signet)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	King's best novel.	Stephen King's output is formidable in terms of sheer wordage, or number of titles.  It is generally lacking in terms of having anything to say.  Overall, if you read a few King novels, you've read them all; a  comprehensive reading of everything he puts out is only  for those who are  endlessly enchanted by the repetitious cycles of romance and machinations  on daytime soap operas.  (I would make an exception to this comment in the  case of his short story collections, or the compilation of four novellas  called &quot;Different Seasons.&quot;)<br />If you were to read only one King  novel, however, this would be the one.  &quot;The Shining&quot; is unique  among his novels in that it does not take place in New England, and the  change of scenery (and, these days, the lack of the mythos baggage provided  by the rest of King's Maine novels) serves it well.  Ignore Kubrick's film  version (which, like most of his overrated catalog, is hardly a good film,  much less a great one)--in &quot;The Shining,&quot; Stephen King comes  closest to being genuinely terrifying, as opposed to merely horrifying, as  opposed to merely grossing-out (to paraphrase the man himself).  Despite  having only four living characters of any note, the novel is well plotted  and well executed right until the end, where King finally drops the ball  completely with a disappointing cop-out of an ending (did he perhaps forget  the first admonition given to beginning writers, namely that the worst  possible ending is one where everything is blown up?)  Specifically, the  scene of the woman in the shower is easily the creepiest King has ever  written, and stands as perhaps his only credential for having contributed  anything to the horror genre that will outlast his own corporeal existence.   Read &quot;The Shining&quot; if you read any King at all.	1999-08-09
US	51987107	RAD5NDRTW8TD5	0879759712	710530424	The Bermuda Triangle Mystery - Solved	Books	4	60	68	N	N	The only book on the &quot;Bermuda Triangle&quot; worth reading	To this day, the Bermuda Triangle is regarded by many as a mysterious zone of influence within which an unusual number of ships and planes disappear without a trace.  At the very least, its reputation as a region associated  with some unspecified danger remains.  Why this is so, after the first  publication of Mr. Kusche's book more than twenty years ago, is perhaps a  more interesting question than whether or not the Bermuda Triangle's  reputation is deserved.  Regardless, it is this latter question that Kusche  attempts to answer.  His approach is simply to do the necessary  research--whenever and wherever he encounters an account or tale of tragedy  in the Bermuda Triangle, he looks up the relevant accounts and finds the  facts.  If the facts leave the fate of the ship or plane(s) ambiguous, he  says so.  If his research turns up a likely explanation, he is forthright  and direct in proposing it.<br />What Kusche finds, in sum, is that the  Bermuda Triangle is essentially a myth.  Many of the Bermuda Triangle  disappearances are not nearly as mysterious as has been suggested; some  ships that were lost in supposedly calm seas were in fact sailing into  fierce storms, while others were lost nowhere near the Triangle area  itself.  Several of the tragedies said to have occurred there are  associated with no records at all--leaving one to wonder how popularizers  of this &quot;mystery&quot; can be certain that there was anything to  disappear.  Before Mr. Kusche's research the Bermuda Triangle  &quot;mystery&quot; melts away, leaving nothing more substantial than an  urban legend.  Writers such as Charles Berlitz are revealed as writers of  fiction in thin disguise [Berlitz was co-author of the first published book  on the alleged crash of a UFO at Roswell, New Mexico, which should do much  to illuminate the reliability of that story as well].  This book is  reasonably well written and easy to get through.  If you want to read about  the Bermuda Triangle, this is the only book I would recommend.	1999-07-26
US	51987107	R21KVPMDUGUVX6	0879755091	276599767	UFO Abductions	Books	4	24	27	N	N	One of the few alien abduction books worth reading.	In this book, Philip Klass deals with the phenomenon of &quot;alien abductions&quot;--that is, the by-now widely known instances in which individuals, often with the aid of hypnosis, recall being taken by aliens  aboard spacecraft and subjected to biological experiments.  Klass deals  thoroughly and convincingly with the hypnosis aspect of the phenomenon, and  rightly points out that far from being a gateway to &quot;repressed  memories,&quot; the technique is actually very likely to elicit  fabrications, and perhaps even to plant memories of events that never  happened.  Additional space is given to cases like that of Travis Walton,  which Klass maintains was almost certainly a hoax.  Some discussion is also  made of the possibility that temporal lobe epilepsy may be responsible for  the experiences described by some individuals.<br />Klass' explanations range  from the strong to the very weak.  His dissection of hypnosis and the  likelihood that most abduction &quot;researchers&quot; are in fact guilty  of planting false memories (inadvertently, it should be noted) is  devastating.  When he brings up TLE, however, he's really reaching.  Klass  was also notable for promoting ball lightning as an explanation for many  UFO sightings, and the same conclusion can be drawn here:  perhaps a few  cases can be explained in this way, but likely not many.  More common  phenomena, such as sleep paralysis and waking dreams, would seem to be more  appropriate for explication.<br />In any case, this book is typical Klass.  It's an entertaining and easy read, with the caveat that Klass' attacks on  abduction &quot;researchers&quot; and abductees are occasionally nasty (in  the case of one individual, the possibility that she might be of interest  to alien researchers is discounted, albeit apparently in jest, simply  because she is physically unattractive).  His logic goes awry once in a  while, but overall it is difficult to come away from a reading of this book  and fail to appreciate the level of delusion required to consider oneself  an abduction researcher.  Klass makes a convincing case that the efforts of  Budd Hopkins, Whitley Strieber and others are actually harmful to the  individuals they analyze and to the public at large.  For anyone interested  in alien abductions, this book should be required reading.reciate the level of delusion required to consider oneself  an abduction researcher.  Klass makes a convincing case that the efforts of  Budd Hopkins, Whitley Strieber and others are actually harmful to the  individuals they analyze and to the public at large.  For anyone interested  in alien abductions, this book should be required reading.	1999-07-14
US	51987107	R1JXUD7DCZQ62Y	1883319307	394732451	The Monuments of Mars: A City on the Edge of Forever, 4th Edition	Books	1	12	27	N	N	Truly awful pseudoscience	In this book, former journalist Richard Hoagland--who, this book notes in detail, is in part responsible for the idea of including a \\"message\\" on the Voyager spacecraft, and who, the book does not note in detail, is in part the originator of the as-yet untested notion that life might exist in a world-ocean encompassing Jupiter's moon Europa--attempts to convince the reader that a group of odd-looking rock formations in the Cydonia region of Mars represent structures designed and built by a super-intelligent race of aliens millions of years ago, that these artifacts hint of a link between these aliens and modern humans, and that NASA or elements within the government are actively engaged in covering up all of this earth-shattering knowledge. The sole basis for all of these claims is a small number of grainy, low-resolution photos taken by the Viking orbiter in the mid-1970s  It is worth remembering that these photos, or more specifically versions of these images that have been processed by amateur investigators, constitute the sum total of Hoagland's work, and of the work of others to whom he occasionally refers. More recent, higher-resolution photos by the Mars Global Surveyor and Mars Odyssey spacecraft essentially reveal Hoagland's claims to be at best a sad little joke, unless one subscribes to the idea that the government is intentionally defacing these images (Hoagland's arguments are more complex than I can do justice to in this space, but they include this assertion). After all, once one begins to cry \\"cover-up!\\" there is no logical way to stop.<br />Hoagland's research is pitiful, his knowledge of statistics and the scientific method nonexistent, and his ego immense. The book is further clouded by vague references to a \\"tetrahedral geometry\\" revealed by the Martian artifacts, reflected in major features of the solar system (the Great Red Spot of Jupiter, etc.), and hinting at the existence of some wonderfully powerful energy source, all of which fall under the heading of what might be called \\"mystical geometry\\" rather than science. It is but a short jump to the inscribing of pentagrams on the floor. To reject Hoagland's notion out of hand is not to deny the possibility that \\"we are not alone,\\" but rather to recognize a crackpot when one sees one, and to demand that if a pursuit is to be called science some semblance of the scientific method be involved.  This book, along with Hoagland's web site (The Enterprise Mission), gives us an excellent example of what has been termed \\"pathological science\\"--at every step, Hoagland attempts to assure the reader that what he is doing is \\"science.\\"  In reality, it's a lot of doodling, with some wild conjecture and sci-fi plotting thrown in.<br />\\"The Monuments of Mars\\" is so poorly written as to be genuinely annoying, and the first-person narrative leads Hoagland to some yawn-inspiring descriptions of receptions, lectures, etc. etc. I can't imagine anyone being entertained by this, but from a cursory glance at the long list of glowing reviews it would appear that a fair number of people are bamboozled enough to overlook the logical gaps and lack of rationality here. Still, I suppose the narrative does provide an interesting description of the ongoing process of self-delusion. Therefore, I recommend this for psychologists only.	1999-07-05
US	51987107	R31J8A96DK0BUS	0312964013	607402851	When the Sky Fell: In Search of Atlantis	Books	1	12	27	N	N	For the gullible only	Rand and Rose Flem-Ath cite Thomas Kuhn's &quot;Structure of Scientific Revolutions&quot; early on in this book.  This is a sure sign that what is to follow will be complete drivel.  I don't mean to imply that Thomas Kuhn  is a crank--on the contrary, his ideas are intriguing and insightful--but  his description of the history of science as a series of major  &quot;paradigm shifts,&quot; interspersed among less interesting periods of  incremental advances, has led far too many people on fruitless searches for  the next paradigm, especially when they are not happy with the current one.   It is a hallmark of works such as this one (to be lumped together with  John Anthony West's &quot;Serpent in the Sky,&quot; Robert Bauval's  &quot;Orion Mystery,&quot; and anything by Graham Hancock, to take a few  recent examples) that what the authors believe they have accomplished (or  that others who think like them have accomplished, see below) is nothing  less than a major paradigm shift that will force us to &quot;rethink&quot;  everything we thought we knew about human history, especially ancient  history.<br />What most of these hopeful theoreticians don't seem to  appreciate, however, is that all of the paradigm &quot;shifters&quot; have  worked from within--Einstein was a theoretical physicist, Darwin a  naturalist, etc. etc.  The Flem-Aths are librarians.  This means that they  are able to compile a large dossier of books and papers to support their  central arguments--that an advanced civilization existed more than 12,000  years ago, and that a great cataclysm caused by a radical shifting of the  earth's crust destroyed this civilization, leaving the scarred survivors to  teach agriculture and pyramid-building to previously savage populations  that survived in the mountains.  Apparently, however, being a librarian  does not mean that one has bothered to read everything pertaining to the  subject of interest, or that one has gained the ability to critically  evaluate anyof the reading material.  I am surprised that the Flem-Aths  never stumbled across the fact that the radical geological theory that is a  central feature of their thesis, namely &quot;earth crust  displacement,&quot; is an entirely baseless work of crankery that no modern  geologist treats seriously.  To be fair to the original crank who propsed  it, Charles Hapgood, he formulated his ideas before plate tectonics was  fully elucidated; to be fair to Einstein, quoted at length due to his  favorable reviews of Hapgood's work, he was not a geologist and was also  without the benefit of a modern understanding of the earth's crust.  To be  equally fair to the Flem-Aths, they should know better.  All of the  &quot;evidence&quot; cited for rapid crust movements has been dealt with in  the decades since Hapgood first published his ideas; it takes nothing less  than willful ignorance to miss this.<br />In terms of scientific ideas or  reasoning, &quot;When the Sky Fell&quot; presents nothing of value.  As  entertainment, this book possesses the virtue of brevity and a reading  level that is fairly basic, but the writing is less than enthralling.  If  you want to read fun little yarns about Atlantis and ancient legacies,  there's better stuff out there.  If you want to gain some sense of the real  wonder presented by modern archaeology, why are you even considering this?	1999-06-28
US	51987107	R2HEW7M9CRP7WH	0835606910	509922260	Serpent in the Sky: The High Wisdom of Ancient Egypt	Books	2	87	143	N	N	Good, bad and ugly	&quot;Serpent in the Sky&quot; is primarily concerned with popularizing the otherwise inaccessible work of R.A. Schwaller de Lubicz, who spent a great deal of time making exhaustive measurements of the Temple of Luxor  and subsequently incorporated his findings into a comprehensive  reinterpretation of ancient Egypt known as &quot;Symbolism.&quot;  A final  chapter and a pair of appendices summarize West's investigation of an  offhand comment of Schwaller de Lubicz that the Sphinx appears to be  weathered by water, with the conclusion that such weathering necessitates a  redating of the Sphinx's carving to at least 5000-7000 BCE and perhaps much  further in the past.  As tracts of alternative archaeology go, this is not  an easy read, and so the casual reader should be forewarned.  The content  of this book falls rather neatly into &quot;good, bad and ugly&quot;  classifications.<br />On the good side, I found the application of  &quot;Symbolism&quot; to the Egyptian hieroglyphics intriguing.  West shows  rather nicely (though I would like to see more conventional views in their  original context) how literal translations of Old Kingdom pyramid texts  seem like complete gibberish, and most likely do not do justice to the  people who wrote them.  The symbolic translation appears more  believable.<br />On the bad side, West is not reticent about engaging in rants  against what he terms the &quot;Church of Progress,&quot; meaning the  belief in technological and scientific advancement as the measure of human  accomplishment, and the depradations of modern society (which, he boldly  asserts, is not a civilization) on the human soul.  One does not have to be  a Luddite to have some sympathy with this view, but its application to  studies of ancient Egypt, with the conclusion that this long-lost  civilization was far more advanced (in a non-technological sense) than our  own, seems misplaced.  It is odd, after all, that after castigating modern  Egyptologists for the &quot;flimsy&quot; reasoning behind, for example, the  conventional dating of the Sphinx, West should use evidence even more  flimsy to claim that the ancient Egyptians were healthier than  &quot;Western&quot; man, or that they had knowledge of pi, phi, and the  zodiac.  At best, West's harping on the &quot;Church of Progress&quot; is  simply annoying.  At worst, he seems unable to recognize when his own  prejudices are coloring a too-rosy picture of the past for which there is  no evidence.<br />As for the ugly, West's creationism prompts him to unleash  several baseless attacks on Darwinian evolution.  Usually, his rants  concern the application of evolutionary principles, which were really only  meant to apply to the origin and extinction of species over great spans of  geological time, to human societies.  Certainly, Darwinian evolution has  been overextended in non-biological arenas, but the fact of evolution is  simply not contestable on rational grounds.  West's scientific credentials  are compromised further by his claim that astrology has some basis in  observable phenomena.  It is in these subjects that &quot;Serpent in the  Sky&quot; degenerates into complete drivel.	1999-06-14
US	51987107	R3KRIGKOD4E7TF	0814742424	608742073	Riddles of the Sphinx	Books	4	28	35	N	N	Informative and valuable	There are perhaps two ways in which Paul Jordan's &quot;Riddles of the Sphinx&quot; should be viewed.  First and foremost, Jordan details everything we know about the Sphinx--its structure, its geology, its place  in Egyptian history, the cultural context in which it was made, the place  of the Sphinx in Egyptian society thereafter, etc. etc.  In this sense, the  book is especially valuable in explaining in a highly readable fashion the  scientific and historical basis for placing the origin of the Sphinx at  about 2500 BCE.  You will not find a clearer account of how such scientific  reasoning works.  At the same time, Jordan is quite fair in admitting where  scientists and historians are simply guessing, or where they know nothing  at all.<br />Second, this book provides a fine counterpoint to the recent  spate of speculations--carried on by the likes of Graham Hancock, Robert  Bauval, John Anthony West, Robert Schoch, Zecharia Sitchin, et. al.--that  the Sphinx dates from a far more ancient time and represents evidence of a  long-lost civilization predating even ancient Egypt and Sumer.  While  Jordan argues persuasively against such wild theorizing, and is  immeasurably helped by his careful summary of conventional Egyptology, I do  wish he had been less offhand in his criticisms of the &quot;alternative  Sphinx.&quot;  Only Schoch is ever mentioned by name or referenced, and  then only because he is a trained geologist, and as such is deserving of  being &quot;taken seriously.&quot;  While in some sense this might be  correct, and certainly is in an academic context, in a work of popular  nonfiction this is downright haughty.  Someone, someday needs to address  the Hancocks, the Bauvals and the Wests in the same way that, for example,  Philip Klass and Robert Sheaffer deal with UFOlogists.  In an academic  context, it is perhaps appropriate to laugh Graham Hancock out of the room;  in the popular arena, his claims need to be addressed  specifically.<br />Nevertheless, as &quot;Riddles of the Sphinx&quot; is the  only book I have yet found that does treat the most recent wave of  early-Sphinx speculation directly, as of this writing it stands as the most  valuable book on the subject for the general reader.  It is written well  and a surfeit of excellent photographs are included, though they  undoubtedly contribute to its rather high price tag.	1999-06-11
US	51987107	RPE0KAXAHD6HL	0517888521	978325809	The Message of the Sphinx: A Quest for the Hidden Legacy of Mankind	Books	2	33	76	N	N	The Sphinx for people who don't care about the Sphinx	After I first read this book, I was inclined to give Hancock and Bauval at least some benefit of the doubt.  I believed that at minimum they had succeeded in raising some interesting questions that _might_ suggest an  origin for the Great Sphinx some 3000-8000 years before most historians and  archaeologists believe it was carved (about 2500 BCE).  Hancock and Bauval  tell an interesting yarn, with hints of lost civilizations of startling  technological and scientific prowess, and of hidden chambers waiting  beneath the sands of Giza for a daring Indiana Jones to unearth.<br />As I  read more on the subject of the Sphinx, the pyramids and other great  structures of antiquity, however, I am less inclined to view Hancock and  Bauval as anything more than incompetent cranks.  Their yarn is just that,  a yarn and nothing more.  Their edifice of &quot;archaeo-astronomical&quot;  reasoning is built on extremely shaky grounds, and in arriving at 10,500  BCE as the date of the Sphinx's origin, and as the apex of some great lost  civilization, they must ignore a truly enormous amount of careful  scientific reasoning.  The reader of this book will not be provided with  any real feeling for the rationale behind the &quot;conventional&quot;  Egyptological views, for if he/she was to have such an understanding,  Hancock and Bauval would be revealed for the sad pseudoscientists they are.   In point of fact, the polemic of &quot;Message of the Sphinx&quot; is less  about a rational basis for reevaluating everything we know of ancient Egypt  than it is a retrospective justification for the pre-formed idea that there  must be a lost, highly advanced Atlantis-like civilization in the distant  past.  To Hancock and his ilk, the ends justify the means.<br />If read by  itself, this book will doubtlessly persuade you that what the authors claim  has some basis in fact, since it is written so one-sidedly and so  deceptively.  If you read this book, then, you owe it to yourself and to  anyone you foist it on to also read Paul Jordan's recent &quot;Riddles of  the Sphinx,&quot; which provides a well-written counterpoint to the wild  claims of Hancock and Bauval.  If all you read is this book, and others by  these authors, then you really aren't interested in the Sphinx at all.	1999-06-05
US	51987107	R3TOI01X5JGNBU	0879753226	932624962	UFOs: The Public Deceived	Books	4	22	30	N	N	A solid expose of credulity and con-artistry in UFOlogy.	Philip Klass is fighting a battle he can never win.  For all the claims to the contrary, UFOlogy is less an exercise in science or journalism than it is purely one of entertainment.  After all, even the staunchest promoter of  the &quot;extraterrestrial hypothesis&quot; must in the end admit that not  a shred of real physical evidence exists to support it.  UFOlogy is perhaps  unique among disciplines in being based entirely on nothing more than  personal testimony.<br />In this book, Klass delves into some of the more  notable UFO cases of the 1970's--the Delphos sighting, which supposedly  involved &quot;unexplainable&quot; traces from a UFO on the ground; the  Coyne/Mansfield Army helicopter incident; the Travis Walton abduction  claim; the New Zealand sighting that resulted in several minutes of filmed  UFO footage.  Klass painstakingly outlines the details of each case, notes  the inevitable inconsistencies and discrepancies that undermine the  interpretation of each as something otherworldly, and proposes and defends  more reasonable mundane explanations.  Almost without exception, his  UFOlogist counterparts are clearly revealed for the (at minimum) highly  credulous and (all too often) blatantly deceptive mythmongers they are.   Klass also reviews the declassified CIA documents that some UFOlogists had  used to claim that the government was hiding its own knowledge of UFOs, and  makes it quite obvious that such a claim could only result from a  hyperactive imagination or from willful deception.<br />Klass is not without  foibles of his own.  Some of his arguments are ad hoc, and one can  occasionally find flaws in his logic.  Still, it is difficult to come away  from a reading of &quot;UFOs:  The Public Deceived&quot; and not appreciate  how outlandish the UFOlogist claims are by comparison--unless, of course,  one has a fundamentalist's faith in the opposite view.  The writing is  straightforward and the book easy to read.  Overall, a fine effort.  Still,since UFOlogy has none of the attributes one might assign to a rational  enterprise, what Klass is doing is essentially like arguing that  &quot;Titanic&quot; was a terrible film.  Which of the millions of  believers are going to listen?	1999-05-23
US	51987107	R11NG0JSA64EU0	0517884542	763972318	The Orion Mystery: Unlocking the Secrets of the Pyramids	Books	3	51	66	N	N	Reasonable, if flawed.	The basic message of the forebodingly titled &quot;The Orion Mystery&quot; is that the ground plan of many, if not all, of the Egyptian pyramids, as well as their basic architecture, was intentionally designed to reflect the  positions of stars in the sky.  The most basic pattern to which Bauval  calls attention is the correlation between the three pyramids at Giza with  the positions of the three belt stars in the constellation of Orion.   Bauval's hypothesis is reasonable, and though it may be difficult to test,  it may provide some insight into the precepts that underlie the  construction of these massive monuments.  In particular, it is refreshing  to read a book on the subject of pyramid-star correlations that is  relatively free of the sort of pseudoscience practiced by the likes of  Graham Hancock and others.  The prospective reader should be warned,  however, that the extension of the correlation of ground plan to star  positions at Giza to other pyramids in Egypt has been effectively  discredited, as I understand even Bauval admits; it would appear that there  was no grand plan to draw Orion/Osiris across such a large region.  This  essentially reduces the useful portion of the book by half, but the  remainder is still worthwhile.  The writing fails to win awards, but is  serviceable.  I would assign three different recommendations:  for those  who plan to eventually take the plunge into the mystical fringes of  pseudoscientific archaeology, this is a good gateway book; for those who  have already dived in, this is tame stuff that will probably only bore you;  for everyone else, this is speculative, but still rational.	1999-05-16
US	51987107	R2L5QII0NGE9WR	1578590299	278643475	The UFO Book: Encyclopedia of the Extraterrestrial	Books	2	3	15	N	N	Not all it's cracked up to be	The fundamental problem with Jerome Clark's \\"UFO Book: Encyclopedia of the Extraterrestrial\\" is one of bias. First and foremost, Mr. Clark is a believer, and so everything in this book is put through a UFO enthusiast's filter. This bias is most clearly demonstrated in the consistent offhand dismissal of debunkers (the term \\"debunkers\\" being shorthand for anyone critical of the UFOlogist view), which only rarely rises to the level of quoting or addressing specific criticisms. I suppose this particular bias is impossible to avoid, however--after all, who else but a believer would even attempt to put a book like this together?<br />The second form of bias is Mr. Clark's own sense of priorities among the various UFO-related subjects he is forced to describe. Throughout the book, he cannot help but reveal his favorable opinion of strange CE2's and other simple sightings, or his unfavorable view of the more mystical wing of UFOlogy. His feelings toward the abduction phenomenon and \\"dark side\\" conspiracy theories are more difficult to discern, but while reading this book one never feels entirely free of Mr. Clark's filters. This is UFOlogy according to Jerome Clark.<br />Beyond the issue of bias, \\"The UFO Book\\" just doesn't seem to have enough entries to justify its subtitling as an \\"encyclopedia.\\" When read cover to cover, it provides a fair overview of the history of UFOs, but I don't think it would serve as a true reference work. Mr. Clark writes that \\"The UFO Book\\" is an abridged version of a more comprehensive work; anyone planning on purchasing this book might bear this in mind. The writing is average, but my only major complaint would be that the choice of extended quotations often seems arbitrary; I rarely understand why Mr. Clark chooses to use someone else's exact words when he does.	1999-05-16
US	51987107	R1O6SON6LH3TWK	1573921645	289279170	The Real Roswell Crashed-Saucer Coverup (Contemporary Issues (Prometheus))	Books	4	26	31	N	N	An admirable exercise in rationality, with minor flaws	Imagine you are a government official, investigating the possibility of a cover-up of knowledge of an alien spacecraft that crashed at Roswell over 50 years ago.  Imagine that you find nothing; furthermore, imagine that you  have nothing to find.  Your situation is hopeless--who in the UFO-believer  community is ever going to believe you, no matter what you can show?  Philip Klass is either to be admired or pitied for taking on this Sisyphean  task; no matter how convincingly he demonstrates that the supposed  &quot;crash&quot; at Roswell has a prosaic explanation, no matter how  ridiculous the so-called &quot;researchers&quot; who claim otherwise are  revealed to be (ranging from simple gullibility to outright fraud), the  counter-arguments will _never_ stop.  There will always be some new  account, some new dimension to the conspiracy, that the diligent debunker  failed to address.  This principle is exemplified by Kevin Randle's review  of this book right here on this URL (see below).  Don't let Mr. Randle fool  you--this book strikes a fatal blow to the entire Roswell crashed-saucer  phenomenon.  Mr. Klass has a tendency to harp on certain facts a little too  much (the single document that he believes serves to falsify all notions of  recovered alien spacecraft does nothing of the sort; it is simply a piece  of evidence to that effect), but the story of Project Mogul--a simple,  relatively boring high-altitude balloon experiment--is compelling, and  explains just about everything.  The book is pleasantly short, and makes  for a breezy read, which is surprising for a debunking effort.  The truth  is out there, and Philip Klass reveals it.  (P.S. to Mr. Randle:  if one is  to dismiss the Project Mogul explanation because part of it depends upon  the 50-year old recollections of one man, then one must naturally also  dismiss the entire crashed-saucer story, which depends entirely on such  crusty old memories, most of which conflict with each other.)	1999-02-13
US	51987107	R2UPECDL03CI32	0517708116	843562845	Heaven's Mirror: Quest for the Lost Civilization	Books	2	10	27	N	N	Mystics make lousy scientists	&quot;Heaven's Mirror&quot; is a logical extension of Graham Hancock's previous works, including &quot;Fingerprints of the Gods&quot; and &quot;Message of the Sphinx.&quot;  By &quot;logical,&quot; however, I only  mean in the sense that if you have already uncritically accepted the  notions he put forth in the earlier books, then you will be prepared for  the next step he takes in this one.  To elaborate:  there is much here that  is simply more of the same--the extension of &quot;archaeoastronomy&quot;  to an explanation of the ground plan of Angkor Wat, and also of the  positioning of this part of Cambodia relative to the Giza plateau and  several sites in the Pacific.  Hancock's archaeoastronomy, however,  essentially amounts to the complete unwillingness to accept anything as  coincidence, right down to supposed similarities in spellings of words from  ancient languages (left unanswered is the question of Hancock's ability to  speak any of these languages, and thus verify that these spellings also  reflect similar pronunciation or inflection).  Hancock's science is derived  from that of many Atlantis enthusiasts, and is exemplified by the ease with  which he accepts a radical and entirely baseless geological idea (Charles  Hapgood's &quot;earth crust displacement&quot;) simply because it provides  a ready explanation for the presence of an antarctic continent on some old  maps.  In short, it's crap of the highest order, and when Hancock goes one  step beyond to aver that the ancients knew of a &quot;science of  immortality&quot; that was just as advanced as our modern scientific  disciplines, he is simply being goofy (his deduction would be similar to  that of an imaginary archaeologist thousands of years in our future,  examining the ruins of hundreds of cathedrals, and deciding that the  Catholic church also had a science of immortality).  All in all, this is  very silly stuff.  Still, the writing is occasionally good, and the  photographs are often gorgeous,though they are of uneven quality.  If you  are drawn to this sort of thing, you could do worse; it's bit better than  von Daniken.  I have a feeling, though, that Mr. Hancock is only a book or  two away from starting his own religion, and I predict that sometime near  that magic year of 2012 he and his followers will be camping out on the  Giza plateau, waiting for the great cataclysm...	1999-02-12
US	51987107	R2W6F0FKT4NVHE	0932813429	851462386	Maps of the Ancient Sea Kings: Evidence of Advanced Civilization in the Ice Age	Books	2	49	77	N	N	Intriguing, but unconvincing.	In this book, Charles Hapgood presents the results of an investigation conducted by himself and his students into a number of very old maps.  He claims that upon extensive analysis of these maps, it becomes apparent that  some of them are likely to have been based on still earlier maps that were  astonishingly accurate in their depiction of the world's coastlines, often  long before these coastlines were thought to have been explored.  From  this, Hapgood makes the extrapolation that the accuracy shown on these maps  provides evidence for an advanced knowledge of the world's contours in  antiquity, perhaps by a lost civilization of great technical prowess.  If  this sounds like Atlantis to you, then you have a keen grasp of the  obvious.  Unfortunately, Hapgood's argument depends upon some extensive  transformations to which he subjects these old maps; in truth, the maps he  examines are not that accurate.  Only by assuming that different portions  of each map were derived from different source maps, and allowing for  significant errors in the compiling of these source maps, does he reach the  conclusion that the original maps were in fact accurate, and naturally  these originals are not in evidence.  The laborious transformations that  are applied lead to the obvious question--if the same effort were applied  to a &quot;control&quot; map, one known to be inaccurately drawn from other  sources, could Hapgood make the same inference?  He never tries.  Alternative explanations for certain features on the old maps are discarded  with no serious evaluation.  For example, Hapgood notes that hundreds of  years ago many mapmakers placed a continent in the present location of  Antarctica simply out of convention--it was thought that a landmass was  needed to balance the greater amount of land in the northern hemisphere.  The presence of Antarctic coastlines on the Piri Reis and Mercator maps,  however, is never ascribed to this impulse, due to the presumed accuracy of  these maps in representing the actual Antarctic coastline (said accuracy,  of course, not even existing, but only assumed to exist for the  hypothetical source maps).  Overall, while this work is perhaps sufficient  to plant a seed of doubt (I would be lying if I said I wasn't curious as to  whether, despite my objections, some of what Hapgood claims might be true),  it would seem to be largely a fantasy with little empirical basis.  Not  written for entertainment value, this book will appeal only to Atlantis  enthusiasts, who need no empirical evidence to be convinced, and to fantasy  writers looking for material.	1999-02-06
US	51987107	R3074O0RPH2UM3	0446364495	879659950	The Bridges of Madison County	Books	1	30	44	N	N	Not my thing...is it yours?	I hesitantly add my own thoughts to the burgeoning chorus here, knowing that I'll be in the &quot;read all xxx reviews...&quot; section in a month or two, but I thought I might add a few things besides the polar &quot;I  loved it!&quot;/&quot;I hated it!&quot; reactions that are so common.   Granted, I despised this book; it is poorly written, with cardboard  characters and wooden dialogue, and its only virtue is its brevity.  Still,  while overwhelming popularity of this little trifle is perhaps testimony to  its utter banality, at the same time it must be connecting with all of  these readers _somehow_.  I am certainly willing to entertain the notion  that I am out of touch with the aesthetic senses of &gt;20 million readers;  whether you are one of those who are capable of being sucked in by this  book is therefore not something I can predict.  In any case, a thought  occurred to me during my reading:  the by-now well-known plot of this book  has an Iowa farm wife (and mother) meeting a traveling photographer and  &quot;free spirit&quot; and having her first and only passionate love  affair, only to end it when she chooses to stay with her family.  This is  the story that has millions in tears of romantic grief.  One wonders if  that would be the situation if the gender of the protagonists were  reversed--that is, an Iowa farmer meets a traveling female photographer and  experiences his first passionate love affair, but decides to stay with his  plain (and oblivious) wife.  Wouldn't the same readers who fawn over this  novel now think of the farmer as a philandering jerk?  Of the photographer  as a homewrecker?  Perhaps I'm just missing the timeless quality of  forbidden romance, or perhaps Mr. Waller just didn't do justice to his  characters, but that is exactly how I viewed Francesca Johnson and Robert  Kincaid.	1999-01-02
US	51987107	RB5DM6QB9CM1B	0446604046	614982455	Encounter with Tiber	Books	1	10	22	N	N	Barely literate.	One of the first things any (halfway decent) writer of fiction will tell you is that the most fundamental rule is &quot;Don't tell me, show me.&quot;  Aldrin and Barnes spend an inordinate amount of time in detailed  explanations of technology, history, and motivation, and precious little  showing their characters in action.  &quot;Encounter...&quot; reads more  like a premise for a book than real fiction, and the prose is among the  worst I have ever seen published.  It is difficult to believe that John  Barnes, the man responsible for the wildly imaginative (if occasionally  banal) &quot;Mother of Storms,&quot; among other competently-written  novels, had anything to do with this; I would be embarassed to have my name  associated with it in any way.  Forget the plot; the &quot;first  encounter&quot; scenario has been done so many times, in so many ways, and  so often better than it is done here that there is no point to reading  this.  No point at all.	1998-11-29
US	51987107	R2AQ3051O8XWS	0879752858	55753703	Ancient Astronauts, Cosmic Collisions	Books	4	11	16	N	N	A much-needed dose of rationality.	If you feel even the slightest sense of dismay at the size of the &quot;new age/occult&quot; section in your local bookstore as compared to that of the &quot;science/nature&quot; section, you will probably enjoy  this book.  If you never noticed the discrepancy, well, you're probably not  reading this review.  An earlier review of this book criticizes Stiebing  for focusing his critique of ancient astronauts on the mistakes made by a  single proponent.  A full description of the egregious errors made by _all_  proponents of notions of ancient astronauts, however, would fill thousands  of pages.  There will always be some new crackpot that Stiebing has missed.   Stiebing's book examines a number of other pseudoscientific subjects, and  is not limited to ancient astronauts, and whatever your personal feelings  about the reality of such things may be, this book is an invaluable  counterpoint to the flood of irrational &quot;literature&quot; that  currently chokes bookstores everywhere--the flood that gives the lie to the  persistent notion that such &quot;alternative&quot; viewpoints are somehow  censored by an all-powerful scientific establishment.  For a real idea of  the nature of this mythical power, try to find this book in the store  nearest you.  Now try to find one by von Daniken.  'Nuff said.	1998-11-29
US	51987107	R2SMSR02GU1F1H	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	1	144	226	N	N	Another reason why evolution needs to be taught...	This book has garnered a great deal of attention, for it is an anti-Darwinist's dream:  a biochemist, of all people, who claims to have derived an irrefutable scientific argument against the evolution of  species, and thus for intelligent design (i.e. God).  In truth, this book  is little more than proof that one's status as a knowledgeable biochemist  is no obstacle to being an idiot when it comes to evolutionary theory.  Let  me not mince words:  when Behe writes about biochemical processes, he knows  whereof he speaks.  When he writes about evolution, he hasn't a clue.  I  can summarize his most basic error and leave it at that:  Behe's central  argument is that complex biochemical systems exist that, if one were to  remove a single part, the entire system would cease to function.  The  chances of such a system arising de novo, by random chance, are  astronomical, and the notion that such a scheme could come about by  incremental changes is also absurd, since the function does not exist until  the scheme is finished.  What Behe completely fails to understand, however,  is how complex systems truly can evolve from initially simple ones.   Imagine a task that is achieved by a single molecule; over time, this  molecule is duplicated.  The second copy is not necessary, but is  maintained in the genome; over time, it mutates (as does the original)  until the process now requires both molecules.  Voila:  &quot;irreducible  complexity&quot; is in fact reducible.  One need not even be an expert in  evolution to grasp this.  To grasp Behe's argument, however, one must be  ignorant, perhaps willfully so, and at the same time be willing to enter  into the fallacy that the existence of God (or of &quot;intelligent  design&quot;) is a matter that science or logic is capable of addressing.   Behe's book, unlike his career as a biochemist, is built not on science,  but wishful thinking.  As such, the blurbs referring to &quot;hidebound  academics&quot; who &quot;blindly&quot; persist in adhering to Darwinian  theory, are the worst sort of yellow journalism.  Astronomers would appear  &quot;blind&quot; and &quot;hidebound&quot; as well if irrational fools  kept dragging them into court to defend the notion that the planets revolve  around the sun and not the Earth.  Of course, unlike Darwin, the Copernican  notion hasn't threatened anyone's parochial world-view since the 1600's or  so...	1998-11-09
US	51987107	R26E33F4UJCELE	0517888521	978325809	The Message of the Sphinx: A Quest for the Hidden Legacy of Mankind	Books	3	40	48	N	N	Interesting but overstated	I was pleased, upon finishing this book, to note that it omitted the  dippier elements (earth crust displacement, lost civilizations in  Antarctica, etc.) of Hancock's &quot;Fingerprints of the Gods.&quot;  I was  dismayed, however, to note that once again a bestselling book supposedly  concerned with history and archaeology had been penned by authors with  little real experience in either field.  Hancock's &quot;research&quot;  involves reading and incorporating speculations made by others while  roundly ignoring (or ridiculing) those that do not easily agree with his  own predilections.  Bauval's contribution as an engineer is perhaps  notable, but not convincing.  While soundly criticizing Egyptologists and  other scientists, it seems that neither of these men ever bothered to learn  to read hieroglyphics, to seriously study Egyptian history beyond a few  basic texts, or to otherwise gain real expertise in the fields that apply  to their arguments regarding the Sphinx.  For example, the claim that the  Sphinx exhibits extensive signs of water erosion is interesting, and borne  out by a cursory examination of the photos available, but one wonders if  the supposed consensus on this point among geologists really exists.  Are  there other ways to produce the erosion patterns seen today on the Sphinx?   One would never know from reading this book, but a brief search on the web  gave me a good hypothesis for one.  From reading this book, one might also  come away with the impression that most research on the Sphinx over the  past 30 years has been performed under the auspices of Edgar Cayce's  organization; don't modern archaeologists do anything?  In the end, I find  the notion that the Sphinx, and the ground plan of the monuments at Giza,  predates the supposed origin of Egyptian civilization to be provocative and  worth a closer look.  I just wish someone more diligent, more even-handed,  and more informed would take that closer look.	1998-10-07
US	51987107	R3HY2VMKTM3CXG	0451184963	179012025	Insomnia	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Don't bother.	Stephen King has written a few things that I would recommend:  novels like  The Shining, parts of The Dead Zone and Pet Sematary, novellas like Apt  Pupil, any number of his short stories.  I couldn't recommend a single  novel of his since roughly the mid-80's.  The reason, and perhaps this is  colored by the perspective of someone who has read each of his novels in  the order in which it appeared, is that from about that point, King ceased  to have anything new to say.  This is most definitely the case with  Insomnia.  Roughly 1/3 of the way through the book, and without peeking, I  had deduced precisely what was going to happen.  Upon peeking, I found  myself to be correct.  The real measure of this novel, then, is the fact  that once I knew for certain what would happen, I no longer had any  interest in finishing the tedious job of reading every word in order to get  there.  The characters are typical King fare and are interchangeable with  those from his other novels.  The plot is nothing wonderful, nothing of  stunning originality, but then originality was never King's strong point.   Why only 1 star?  Because when one reads a novel of supernatural horror,  one expects to experience a reaction other than &quot;ho-hum.&quot;   Ho-hum.	1998-09-19
US	51987107	RENQUT35BY70D	0312860986	999993855	China Mountain Zhang	Books	5	66	72	N	N	If you're looking for the plot, you've missed the point.	A number of the reviewers of this book on this site have commented on this  novel's lack of plot.  This is unfair.  It has plot to spare, just not the  sort of simple, follow-the-numbers plotline most of today's TV-raised  readers seem to need.  As a novel, it reads more as a slice of life (or  lives) than a self-contained story, and from the perspective of a science  fiction reader, this can serve (and does so here) to make the singular  impact of this book one of total immersion in a well-thought-out,  self-consistent future world.  As an example of science fiction as  extrapolation from the present, I can think of few works as good as this.   As for this novel being an example of &quot;gay and lesbian&quot; fiction,  one of the main characters happens to be gay.  It is certainly a defining  characteristic, especially in the future presented here, where  homosexuality is again driven underground.  I think we can gain some  perspective on comments like this, however, from the fact that although  most of the major characters are Chinese, no one has thought to  characterize this novel as &quot;Chinese fiction.&quot;  All in all, China  Mountain Zhang is a fine novel, with a narrative voice startlingly  well-developed for a first-time novelist.  I give this my highest  recommendation--not the stuff of science-fiction adventure, but rewarding  for those who care about finely crafted fiction.	1998-09-19
US	51987107	R1J6M15W08B86R	0812524101	590068287	Half the Day Is Night	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Another fine novel from Maureen McHugh.	&quot;Half the Day Is Night&quot; is not a sequel to her first novel,  &quot;China Mountain Zhang,&quot; but it seems to take place in the same  fully realized future world of the latter work.  It is also written in the  same matter-of-fact style, with the same day-in-the-life sort of plot, and  the same depth of character.  This is not a novel for someone interested in  typical SF fare--space adventure, science detectives, epic trilogies, and  the like.   Although the future imagined here has clearly been carefully  constructed, at no point does the narrator intrude upon the characters and  the events that unfold to explain things.  The effect is one of complete  immersion in a different reality, but one that (in retrospect) can easily  be extrapolated from our own.  That, to me, is one definition of great  science fiction.  This, to me, is a great science fiction novel.  Maureen  McHugh is the sort of author who deserves a much wider audience; at the  same time, she is the sort of author one knows will never command that  audience, by the simple criterion that she writes fiction, not  novelizations.  I can't recommend this book more highly.	1998-09-19
US	51987107	RGFQG8W6E4ATV	0881846481	361354622	Crossfire: The Plot That Killed Kennedy	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Comprehensive and exhaustive, but ???	In &quot;Crossfire,&quot; which is advertised as one of the sources for  the Oliver Stone film &quot;JFK,&quot; Jim Marrs presents what is  undoubtedly the single most comprehensive description of all of the  inconsistencies, coincidences, suspicious evidence, strange events, and  hints of conspiracy that have surfaced in the 30+ years since the  assassination of President John F. Kennedy.  In a reasonably literate and  entertaining style, and with a nicely ordered organization, Marrs walks the  reader through a wealth of detail.  It would be difficult, I think, for any  reader to come through a cover-to-cover reading of this book and not have  doubts as to the validity of the single-gunman (Oswald, that is) conclusion  of the Warren Commission.  That same wealth of detail also undermines the  conspiracy conclusion--along the way, Marrs implicates the CIA, the FBI,  the Mafia, anti-Castro Cubans, the U.S. military, conservative political  and economic interests, and others.  A conspiracy involving all of these  would be truly incomprehensible.  One begins to wonder if Marrs couldn't  find something to implicate Jacqueline Kennedy in the assassination if he  only looked hard enough.  One begins to wonder if he could find a  conspiracy just about anywhere he cared to.  In any case, if you're looking  for the one book that will summarize just about every major aspect of JFK  conspiracy theories, this is the one, just don't expect anything that would  hold up in court.	1998-09-13
US	51987107	RR9UTWUDS3J2E	0061096865	155619329	Alien Agenda	Books	1	33	51	N	N	Why read this?  Go elsewhere.	I read this book expecting that Jim Marrs would do the same for UFOlogy  here that he did for JFK conspiracy theories in &quot;Crossfire,&quot; that  is, present the most comprehensive summary available.  While I can't say  for a fact that there are more comprehensive works out there, I can say  that from this perspective, &quot;Alien Agenda&quot; is nearly a waste of  time.  Marrs' organization is comprehensive enough--covering UFO sightings,  Roswell, abductions, cattle mutilations, crop circles, ancient astronauts,  even &quot;remote viewing&quot;--but his prose is poor, and his style is  anything but journalistic or objective.  Differences in opinion over the  validity of UFO evidence are invariably chalked up to &quot;mind-set,&quot;  which as far as I can tell is Marrs' way of saying that one sees what one  wants to see.  &quot;Mind-set&quot; is therefore useful to him as a  derisive device whenever a debunker comes along; it never occurs to him to  apply it with the same derision to himself or to fellow believers.  The  believers' &quot;mind-set&quot; is presumably an &quot;open&quot; one, and  therefore more receptive to new and strange possibilities.  For Marrs,  unfortunately, this means he must present--with a straight face--some truly  ludicrous stories as if they were fact; some of these were good enough to  make me laugh aloud.  Based on this book and &quot;Crossfire,&quot; I am  now firmly convinced that Jim Marrs could find a conspiracy involved in  your choice of breakfast if he only looked for it.  Are aliens visiting us?   Does the U.S. government know?  I couldn't say for certain, but books like  this one hardly bolster the argument.	1998-09-13
US	51987107	R2INS3XMEH4WRN	0517887290	114266213	Fingerprints of the Gods	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Provocative but hardly substantiated	I'll leave it to the numerous other reviewers to summarize Hancock's  conclusions.  In essence, however, he is a latter-day Atlantis enthusiast  who places his lost civilization in Antarctica.  This naturally ignores the  geological evidence, from ice cores, that the ice sheet on Antarctica is at  least 150,000 years old, and probably older.  It is this lack of critical  thinking, this credulity, that ultimately undermines the arguments he  makes.  There is enough here to give one pause, though.  Evidence of  extensive water erosion on the Sphinx hints at a greater age than  Egyptologists would acknowledge (though Hancock characteristically glosses  over more than a millenium of wet weather on Giza from 7000-5500 B.C. in  setting his age at 10,500 B.C.).  The lack of adornment in the Giza  pyramids, as contrasted to other pyramids, hints at a function other than  simple tombs.  And so on.  Hancock is not a man who believes in  coincidences; thus the monuments of the ancient American civilizations must  draw upon the same sources as those of Egypt, common features of myths from  across the world reflect a shared heritage, and preoccupations with  astrological signs in different cultures are undoubtedly  &quot;messages&quot; from a lost society looking to the impermanence of the  stars for their legacy.  One must look elsewhere to find a more complete  description of these matters, with a discussion of the _differences_.  Even  based on what is here, however, it is not clear to me why the recurrence of  floods, or dogs, in different myths should be surprising, for example.   And of course, to explain the loss of a great Antarctic civilization,  Hancock must bring up a radical new geological idea of crust displacement  that has no basis in any sort of evidence.  I am tempted to call Hancock  a von Daniken of the '90's.  In the end, I think he is actually more of a  Velikovsky of the '90's:  Velikovsky wanted to explain Biblical events  using natural phenomena, and so invented a goofy scenario of Earth/Venus  interactions to explain them; at root, the idea that the collision of small  bodies with the Earth has profound effects upon its history is of value.   Hancock wants to validate the idea of a prehistorical Atlantis, and so he  engages in all sorts of goofy speculation; at root, the idea that  civilization of some sort may have existed 15,000 years ago may prove of  value.	1998-09-13
