US	51997044	R1TQ34398FD068	0764125141	164191377	Spanish At a Glance: Phrasebook and Dictionary (At a Glance Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Practical and Helpful	I went looking for a thorough, inexpensive, and practical Spanish guide for travelers, and I found it in this book. I shouldn't be surprised, because whether it is foreign languages or studying for the GRE, Barron's has never disappointed me.<br /><br />The book is color-coded and divided into 17 sections, including a pronunciation guide at the beginning, and a (very brief) grammar and dictionary at the end. Neither the pronunciation guide nor grammar is extremely helpful, because of their brevity, but what is in between is extremely helpful, although the grammar and pronunciation guide are decent for their length. Sections include: Basics, At the Hotel, Getting Around Town, Food and Drink, Meeting People, and more. Every word and phrase is spelled out phonetically to make pronunciation painless. Since the book is relatively new, it includes computer and internet related words and phrases too.<br /><br />The guide is also entertaining, being in full color, with drawings dispersed throughout. Also, the book has some interesting tidbits and facts about various foods, customs, and activities of different Spanish-speaking countries.<br /><br />Overall, this book is useful for the traveler and those just wishing to learn more practical Spanish. It is geared toward beginners, but even those with more advanced Spanish training will find it helpful to have such a concise guide handy. Almost every common scenario is covered in one section or another. This book will really come in handy on a vacation to a Spanish-speaking country.	2005-04-22
US	51997044	R3BCCRRYBUE80N	0486291138	340492624	1001 Most Useful Spanish Words (Dover Language Guides Spanish)	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Excellent Little Resource	For a cheap price this book offers 1001 of the most useful Spanish words most people will need to know. After all, even in English most of us use a limited number of words on a daily basis, so when learning a new language it is easiest to learn the common, high-frequency words. In this book, the words are listed in alphabetical order. Author Resnick also provides a sentence in Spanish using the word, followed by an English translation of the sentence. At the end of the book, words are grouped by category, such as days of the week, food, etc.<br /><br />I am trying to practice my Spanish, which I haven't studied in a classroom setting since 1999. I go through each word, say the sentence, and then highlight the words I need to practice more thoroughly. This has helped me relearn many words, as well as practice speaking and hearing the language.<br /><br />Overall, this is an inexpensive and useful book. Don't expect anything too detailed though, because it is a Dover Book. However, it is just as helpful as other thicker, more expensive books. I give it 5 stars because it does what it claims to do...cheaply.	2005-04-22
US	51997044	R19G4JFGIWV217	0764803832	348904254	The Essential Mary Handbook: A Summary of Beliefs, Practices, and Prayers (Redemptorist Pastoral Publications)	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	What You Need To Know About Mary	This handbook tells you just about everything you need to know about Mary from a Catholic Perspective. The major sections are: Mary Today, Mary in the Scriptures and Early Writings of the Church, Mary in the Liturgy of the Church, The Image of Mary Through the Ages, Marian Prayers, Marian Litanies and Aspirations, Marian Novenas, Devotions to Mary, Glossary of Important Terms, Marian Shrines Worldwide, and a liturgical Calendar of Mary. The appendix contains a few texts from the Catechism regarding Mary.<br /><br />I learned a lot about Mary. \\"Mary Today\\" covers the official Catholic teaching about her, including excerpts from papal encyclicals from John Paul II. \\"Mary in the Scriptures and Writings of the Early Church\\" details where the Church has seen Mary in the Old and New Testaments, as well as a few stories about Mary in the spurious New Testament Apocrypha.  \\"Mary in the Liturgy\\" explains the major Marian feasts and even optional liturgical celebrations related to Mary. \\"The Image of Mary Through the Ages\\" looks at how Mary has been viewed in all eras of Christian history, from the Apostolic days until today. The chapters with prayers, litanies, novenas, and devotions are very thorough, including even the earliest known third century prayer to Mary. Most every popular prayer is included, including many rarer ones. The glossary is useful. The shrine list is helpful, although being worldwide, it is by no means exhaustive. The liturgical calendar covers worldwide Marian feasts, and there is a feast of Mary for almost every day.<br /><br />Overall, this is a very helpful book that explains what the Catholic Church believes about the Mother of the Son of God. It is not meant as an apologetics tool per se. You won't find detailed proofs of the Catholic Church's claims. There are other books for that. As a newly confirmed Catholic, this book deepened my admiration of the Virgin Mary and gave me a greater appreciation of her character and actions in the Divine plan. It also opened my eyes to the importance of Mary in salvation history. For non-Catholics reading this book, the beginning of the book reminds us that any devotion to Mary must lead us closer to Christ. This book will tell you what you need to know about Mary.lan. It also opened my eyes to the importance of Mary in salvation history. For non-Catholics reading this book, the beginning of the book reminds us that any devotion to Mary must lead us closer to Christ. This book will tell you what you need to know about Mary.	2004-08-17
US	51997044	R23HVYT6JKXOKQ	0892436719	887864319	Handbook for Today's Catholic: Fully Indexed to the Catechism of the Catholic Church (A Redemptorist Pastoral Publication)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Crash-Course on the Catholic Church	When I decided to join the Catholic Church, the first thing my priest gave me was this handbook. It is a crash-course on what it means to be Catholic. The book is divided into four sections: Beliefs, Practices, Prayers, and Living the Faith in the Spirit of Vatican II.<br /><br />The Beliefs section covers the Trinity, Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit, Mary, the Church, Sin, Scripture, Tradition, the nature of Revelation, the Sacraments, and more. Grace, the Theological Virtues, and our final destiny, which includes Church teaching on issues like Heaven, Hell, and Purgatory, are all explained in plain English.<br /><br />The Practices section includes Church Precepts, Holy Days of Obligation, Proper Confession, Worthy Reception of Communion, Works of Mercy, and many more practices and customs all Catholics should know about. I learned the most from this section, because my educational background prepared me for much of the theology of the Church, but not all of her practices and customs.<br /><br />The Prayer section contains common Catholic prayers and creeds. These include the Lord?s Prayer, the Rosary, the Apostle?s Creed, Grace before meals, Thanksgiving after meals, and virtually all the major prayers Catholics usually know and love. There is also a short explanation on how to pray the Rosary, although the luminous mysteries are not included because they are too new.<br /><br />The last section, Living the Faith in the Spirit of Vatican II, explains the way Catholic faith and values affect our lives. We are called to live the faith, not just mentally assent to it. Serving God in our state of life, Meeting God in the Scriptures, and Respect for Other Faiths are some of the topics covered. Evangelization is also discussed, and we are reminded that we Catholics are called to share our faith regularly, in word and deed.<br /><br />Overall, this is a great resource for those exploring the Catholic Church, those joining, or for long-term members who need a concise handy source of important Catholic beliefs, prayers and customs. I have greatly benefited from this handbook.oncise handy source of important Catholic beliefs, prayers and customs. I have greatly benefited from this handbook.	2004-07-22
US	51997044	R22V1223JHRCJ1	0818908939	150257033	The Christian Faith: In the Doctrinal Documents of the Catholic Church	Books	4	38	41	N	Y	Excellent Collection of Original Texts	This book is a classic collection of documents relating to Catholic beliefs, morals, and practices from 100 AD until the present (including many writings of Pope John Paul II). The contents are mostly documents from Church Councils, creeds, Papal decrees, and various other sources of Catholic thought. The sections are: Symbols and Professions of Faith, Revelation and Faith, Tradition and Scripture, The Triune God, Humankind and the World, Original Justice and the Fall, Jesus Christ, Mary, The Church, The Church and Churches, The Church and World Religions, The Church and Missions, Christian Worship, the Sacraments, Baptism/Confirmation, the Eucharist, Reconciliation/Anointing, Order, Matrimony, the Life of Grace, Principles of Christian Life, The Social Doctrine of the Church, Sexual Order and Respect for Life, and Christian Fulfillment.<br />The documents are translated into modern English from the original languages, and occasionally have notes, which are always helpful. The introductions to each document provide a nice historical background, and often, a helpful summary of each document. Otherwise, the documents (which are arranged chronologically) are allowed to speak for themselves. I was impressed with the wisdom contained within. They speak for the biblical and historical faith in a clear way, effectively working within each culture, without capitulating to the culture. The social teaching documents are especially interesting in this way, and show a great balance between standing up for what the Church considers right, without forgetting that mercy is always freely available from Christ. I was particularly glad to see many documents relating to potential reunion of East and West, as well as dialogue between the Catholic Church and Protestant churches.<br />Now I need to explain why I only gave it four stars. The reason is the quality of the book itself. My first copy had dog-eared pages and the binding was strange and uneven, even though it came sealed in plastic from the factory. I sent that copy back thinking it was a defective book. My second copy, sealed as well, also had similar issues. One page was pretty creased, although I could make out the words affected by the creases. A few other pages look like they came out of the presses a little crooked. It is obviously a publishing issue, perhaps only with a certain print-run, but nonetheless a little annoying. However, the price is right and I can overlook this issue seeing how amazing the material inside is. Anybody who is Catholic or wants to know more about the Catholic Church should consider getting this book. While some of the information may seem a little theologically advanced at times, it is well worth diving into.lastic from the factory. I sent that copy back thinking it was a defective book. My second copy, sealed as well, also had similar issues. One page was pretty creased, although I could make out the words affected by the creases. A few other pages look like they came out of the presses a little crooked. It is obviously a publishing issue, perhaps only with a certain print-run, but nonetheless a little annoying. However, the price is right and I can overlook this issue seeing how amazing the material inside is. Anybody who is Catholic or wants to know more about the Catholic Church should consider getting this book. While some of the information may seem a little theologically advanced at times, it is well worth diving into.	2004-07-05
US	51997044	R2C8MA6YYFNNBY	0226653730	166062372	The Christian Tradition: A History of the Development of Doctrine, Vol. 2: The Spirit of Eastern Christendom (600-1700) (Volume 2)	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Another Great Book From Pelikan	Jaroslav Pelikan is one of the foremost scholars of Christian Thought and History. This book is the second volume in his monumental set, and like the other four volumes, it does not disappoint. This volume covers the often neglected \\"lung\\" of Christianity, the Eastern Church. Its neglect in the Western world is mainly because we tend to focus on Western history, to our detriment. The controversies over the interpretation of the Church Fathers, over icons, and the Trinity are given plenty of space, as is the development of the \\"Eastern Mindset.\\" The political and doctrinal issues surrounding the Filioque (the \\"and the Son\\" clause of the Nicene Creed) and the \\"Great Schism\\" between East and West are also discussed, and handled very fairly. Pelikan seems to (wisely) hold both sides and the egos involved to be at fault for the schism. He looks at the events and controversies of the Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Ecumenical Councils too. He ends with the \\"Last flowering of Byzantine Theology\\" including the tragic almost complete loss of theological and liturgical contact between East and West.<br />Pelikan is fair and balanced in his appraisal of events, and concerns himself primarily with the development of doctrine, so some issues and events might seem downplayed or ignored. His style, while interesting, can also be rather academic. Many Latin and Greek words are used without translation. Many technical Church terms are used as well, which might be unfamiliar to those not versed in Church history. As such, this might not be the best beginner's introduction to the Eastern Churches.<br />It should be noted that Pelikan eventually joined the Orthodox Church, so the contents of this book (written in 1974) were probably part of his journey. I had the joy of hearing Pelikan speak and of attending an Orthodox service with him. He genuinely loves the Eastern Tradition, and certainly views the events in his books as more than just cold historical facts. This love of Christian history could be why his books are so well-written. However, they are still very scholarly and look at events critically, which might cause him to be dismissed as too \\"liberal\\" or \\"modernist\\". However, the Tradition of the Church is never dismissed out of hand, and Pelikan is quite traditional in his beliefs. Overall, this is a great part two in the History of the Development of Doctrine. For those who have a background in Christian history, volume two will probably teach you more new events and figures than any other of his volumes, because the East's history independent of the West has been neglected for too long.ory could be why his books are so well-written. However, they are still very scholarly and look at events critically, which might cause him to be dismissed as too \\"liberal\\" or \\"modernist\\". However, the Tradition of the Church is never dismissed out of hand, and Pelikan is quite traditional in his beliefs. Overall, this is a great part two in the History of the Development of Doctrine. For those who have a background in Christian history, volume two will probably teach you more new events and figures than any other of his volumes, because the East's history independent of the West has been neglected for too long.	2004-06-24
US	51997044	R2CIWY4IUSJDFI	0898706084	506979120	On Being Catholic	Books	5	78	80	N	Y	The Catholic Faith for the Soul!	Thomas Howard is a former evangelical, turned Anglican, turned Catholic, and an editor-at-large for Christianity Today. His Evangelical credentials were very impressive, and so is his case for the Catholic Faith. Howard does not sling Scripture at the reader, nor does he attempt to do fundamentalist-style apologetics. Had he done this I probably would have put it down after the first page.<br />Howard's style reminds me a lot of C.S. Lewis'. When I first read of this comparison on the back cover I was dubious. However, his writing is laced with references to classical literature and a variety of philosophies. His knowledge of secular and Christian thought is quite impressive, as is his Latin and English vocabulary. Like Lewis, he seamlessly and clearly articulates his thoughts in a way that is quite beautiful without being superficial. Like Lewis, he also handles objections to his ideas as he writes, anticipating the objections various types of readers might have. While it is likely that Lewis will be read long after Howard, this is no reason to dismiss the importance of what Howard has to say.<br />For me, what makes his work so impressive is that he appeals to the deep need that humans have for tradition, religious encounter, symbol, sacrament, ritual, etc. Much of the book is based not on cold logic, but on human need and longing. A good example is when he explains the need that humans have for ceremony and ritual, and how eventually we &quot;give external shape to what is in our hearts.&quot; He explains how when we internally remember a birthday, we give visible and external shape to this inner matter through common birthday rituals like candles, cakes, and presents. These rituals do not supersede the inner reality, but give meaningful shape to it. Being a former Protestant, he knows the common objections, and can understand the reasons why many Protestants fear and distrust the Catholic Church. He is then in a good position to answer these objections as well, and like Lewis, he uses Scripture and the Fathers without misusing them.<br />While addressing various Catholic topics (including Mary, Going to Church, the Crucifix, Tradition, the Mass, and more), he never resorts to attacks against other faiths. Most Orthodox (and to a lesser extent Anglicans) will find that he is really defending their Faith as well, since it is so similar to that of Catholics. As I read this book, I could sense his love for those elements of the evangelical faith that led him to the Catholic Church, and his love for Evangelicals. And it is not just the fake, &quot;I love you so I scream the truth at you&quot; either. Don't think he compromises the Catholic Faith though; he is traditional. When he deals with &quot;Are Catholics Saved?&quot; he explains how Catholics live and breathe the gospel in Mass (Divine Liturgy), in traditional prayers, in Confession, and so forth. He addresses the Protestant language of salvation that often seems foreign to Catholics, like the question &quot;are you saved?&quot; He assures his Evangelical readers that even if Catholics don't initially understand the question as framed, they are certainly &quot;saved.&quot; This was a favorite chapter of mine.<br />Overall, this is a very compelling book that explains why being Catholic is the fullest Christian option, i.e. why the Catholic Faith appeals to humanity's basic and deepest spiritual needs. Of course while explaining his love for the Catholic Church, he also deals with common objections along the way. His explanations may even bring tears to your eyes. For example, the profundity of his language for the Mass as the &quot;threshold that lies between time and eternity&quot; captures quite well and quite beautifully the historic Church's position. If apologetics books (which of course have a place too) leave you cold, read this book. It gets at the heart of being Catholic!and like Lewis, he uses Scripture and the Fathers without misusing them.<br />While addressing various Catholic topics (including Mary, Going to Church, the Crucifix, Tradition, the Mass, and more), he never resorts to attacks against other faiths. Most Orthodox (and to a lesser extent Anglicans) will find that he is really defending their Faith as well, since it is so similar to that of Catholics. As I read this book, I could sense his love for those elements of the evangelical faith that led him to the Catholic Church, and his love for Evangelicals. And it is not just the fake, &quot;I love you so I scream the truth at you&quot; either. Don't think he compromises the Catholic Faith though; he is traditional. When he deals with &quot;Are Catholics Saved?&quot; he explains how Catholics live and breathe the gospel in Mass (Divine Liturgy), in traditional prayers, in Confession, and so forth. He addresses the Protestant language of salvation that often seems foreign to Catholics, like the question &quot;are you saved?&quot; He assures his Evangelical readers that even if Catholics don't initially understand the question as framed, they are certainly &quot;saved.&quot; This was a favorite chapter of mine.<br />Overall, this is a very compelling book that explains why being Catholic is the fullest Christian option, i.e. why the Catholic Faith appeals to humanity's basic and deepest spiritual needs. Of course while explaining his love for the Catholic Church, he also deals with common objections along the way. His explanations may even bring tears to your eyes. For example, the profundity of his language for the Mass as the &quot;threshold that lies between time and eternity&quot; captures quite well and quite beautifully the historic Church's position. If apologetics books (which of course have a place too) leave you cold, read this book. It gets at the heart of being Catholic!	2004-06-23
US	51997044	R1L83BECB7SHH8	0486292827	885816956	English Romantic Poetry: An Anthology (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	A Great Poetry Collection for the Price	Dover Thrift Edition books are known for providing classical literature for a great price, without abridging the material (unless they say so of course). This anthology is no exception. The best poets of the English Romantic period are included, including two of my favorites, Samuel Taylor Coleridge and William Wordsworth. Blake, Byron, Shelley, and Keats are also represented quite liberally.<br />Don't expect too much of this anthology outside of the actual poems themselves though. It is a Thrift Edition after all. The paper is strong, but not of the highest quality. There are brief introductions to each of the poets, but no real commentary or notes on the poems themselves. The editor does translate some of the ancient languages that the poets occasionally employ, like Latin and Greek. At the end there is an index of first-lines and titles. Also, I have to say, that these are not &quot;romantic&quot; as modern readers often use the term. &quot;Romantic&quot; refers to an era of art, music, philosophy, and literature where artists and writers allowed their emotions to overflow using a whole host of symbols, creating great works that owed more to the depths of the Imagination than the rational intellect. Coleridge was himself a theologian and philosopher and expressed many of his ideas of Imagination and eternal Symbol in his poems. Overall, this is a good sampling of some of the finest poetry available. Factoring in price and quantity, it is definitely 4 stars.	2004-06-23
US	51997044	R205NBGLVXRHYD	0764553917	766159851	Catholicism For Dummies	Books	5	347	363	N	Y	Extremely Useful and Well-Written!	I am currently an Anglican/Episcopalian exploring the Catholic Church, likely to be received soon. I have an extensive background in Scripture, Church History, ancient languages, etc. Yet as I began to explore the Catholic Church I realized that I could tell you quite a bit about St. Thomas Aquinas' understanding of transubstantiation, but I didn't know something as simple as when to cross myself at Mass! I also didn't know the official differences between mortal and venial sins, the ins-and-outs of papal infallibility, or the difference between a sacrament and a sacramental. This book helped me understand all of these things and then some. My point is that virtually anybody can learn a lot about the Catholic Church from this book, even those who consider themselves fairly knowledgeable to begin with (like cradle Catholics).<br />The style is easy-to-read, straight-forward, and the advice and information is always based on official Church teaching. So it is not a good place to go if you wish to join the Catholic Church because you like the stain glass windows but don't want to accept Church teachings. This does not mean the authors cover up or gloss over difficult issues. They clearly admit how some popes were awful, and they have harsh words for the minority of priests who sexually abuse children. They do put these issues in perspective, pointing out that the papacy has a better record than most secular leaders, and the sinfulness of Peter, who was still chosen as first of the apostles. They also compare molestation by priests to molestation within families, showing that within families it is far more rampant (without excusing bad priests' behavior!). These are fair and balanced assessments in my opinion. This is not an apologetics book, although it does go to some length to show the Faith in a positive light. While strict apologetics books (Protestant or otherwise) often leave me cold, this book was a delight to read.<br />I read this is an entire weekend, and felt prepared to visit a Catholic Church for the first time in years. In addition to using this book, I would recommend reading the Catechism, using The New Saint Joseph People's Prayer Book, and reading the early Church Fathers. The Faith of the Early Fathers by William Jurgens is a three volume set with excerpts from the Fathers. Scott Hahn's works are also recommended. Personally, I would say the best way to get a glimpse of the Catholic Church is to visit a Mass (but don't commune until you are a member!). Ultimately it was worshipping and praying with the Church that convinced me that Catholic was the way to go. Overall, Catholicism for Dummies is a good introduction to the Catholic Church, and tells you everything you really need to know in a concise and enjoyable way.lt prepared to visit a Catholic Church for the first time in years. In addition to using this book, I would recommend reading the Catechism, using The New Saint Joseph People's Prayer Book, and reading the early Church Fathers. The Faith of the Early Fathers by William Jurgens is a three volume set with excerpts from the Fathers. Scott Hahn's works are also recommended. Personally, I would say the best way to get a glimpse of the Catholic Church is to visit a Mass (but don't commune until you are a member!). Ultimately it was worshipping and praying with the Church that convinced me that Catholic was the way to go. Overall, Catholicism for Dummies is a good introduction to the Catholic Church, and tells you everything you really need to know in a concise and enjoyable way.	2004-06-17
US	51997044	R13VP8OT1VGIC3	0899429017	115790592	People's Prayer Book: New Saint Joseph : Burgundy Leather	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	A Downright Thorough Catholic Prayer Book	The Saint Joseph's People's Prayer Book is an interesting and downright thorough Roman Catholic Prayer Book.  In reality, being a Vatican II Prayer Book it is appropriate for anybody with a catholic spirit, including many Anglicans, Orthodox, and Lutherans. I bought the book as an Anglican, but am now journeying to the Roman Catholic Church.<br />There are so many prayers and types of prayers in this book that it can be a bit overwhelming at first. It is divided into 12 basic sections, consisting of 1056 pages. The 12 sections are:<br />1. Prayers from the Bible<br />2. Prayers from the Liturgy<br />3. Prayers from the Enchiridion of Indulgences<br />4. Prayers of Saints and Spiritual Writers<br />5. Prayers of Orthodox, Protestants, and Non-Christians<br />6. Prayers in Accord with the Church Year<br />7. Prayers to the Blessed Trinity<br />8. Prayers to Saints<br />9. Prayers for Various Occasions<br />10. Prayers Based on Various Relationships<br />11. Prayers for Popular Devotions<br />12. Prayer-Blessings<br />Included in these 12 sections are Novenas, prayers to the Holy Spirit, Eucharistic Prayers, the Rite of Penance, Morning and Evening Prayer, Votive prayers, The Rosary, and popular Protestant prayers. There are even some occasional prayers that struck me as very particular, but also very good ideas, such as \\"a prayer before going on a date\\" and \\"a prayer before driving.\\" There are also prayers of blessing for pets, boats, Christmas Trees, books, and even computers!<br />Overall this is a fine prayer book that is extremely thorough. I only had a few issues with the book. First, the prayers from non-Christian traditions initially offended me. I guess if one takes the view that these prayers were actually addressed to the Trinity \\"sub specie\\" the other deities, then I have less of a problem. In other words, because these people did not have the benefit of hearing the message of Christ, then these prayers were making them ready for Christ, similar to the argument of St. Justin on why Socrates and Plato were Christians before Christ. Another issue I have (not an objection per se) is the pictures included are straight from the 1950s, and actually remind me of Jehovah's Witness literature. The pictures do have a certain nostalgic feel to them, but I am not sure if others will feel the same way. Check this one out to deepen your prayer life, even if you are not Roman Catholic.why Socrates and Plato were Christians before Christ. Another issue I have (not an objection per se) is the pictures included are straight from the 1950s, and actually remind me of Jehovah's Witness literature. The pictures do have a certain nostalgic feel to them, but I am not sure if others will feel the same way. Check this one out to deepen your prayer life, even if you are not Roman Catholic.	2004-06-05
US	51997044	R3IOAOMY07TGYH	1575667207	795226280	The Clinician's Handbook Of Natural Healing	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Scientific, Fact-Filled Alternative Medicine Handbook	This is one large book (870 pages!), filled with massive amounts of information regarding vitamins, minerals, enzymes, and other nutrients, and their effect on various diseases. Keep in mind this is a reference guide, primarily for clinicians, so it is not a book one would read through cover-to-cover.<br />The first section consists of nutrients, listed in alphabetical order. After each nutrient Null lists different diseases that a particular nutrient treats, backed by summaries of various scientific studies. He also provides the references, so one can easily look up the studies for him or herself. The studies come directly from scientific journals. For instance, looking under Zinc, we find that Zinc is beneficial for acne, and Zinc Sulfate and Vitamin A &quot;significantly reduced&quot; the number of papules, pustules, and infiltrates within 4 weeks. This is from a 1977 study found in &quot;Arch Dermatol,&quot; i.e. the &quot;Archives of Dermatology&quot; journal.<br />The next four sections are: Herbal Superstars (well-known herbs), Additional Herbs, Therapeutic Amino Acids, and Essential Amino Acids. These are laid out just like the first section.<br />The next section consists of various fruits and vegetables and their phytochemical content. For instance, cabbage has over three pages worth of chemicals listed, from 1-cyano-2,3-epithiopropane to Zirconium (at anywhere from 1.4 to 203 ppm). Then Null lists each phytochemical alphabetically referenced to its therapeutic properties. Then he lists different herbal properties (such as &quot;antiviral&quot;) followed by herbs that fall under that category.<br />Appendix A lists anti-aging nutrients (listed in the same manner as section one). Appendix B consists of recommended dosages of various nutrients and herbs. Finally appendix C consists of studies showing the potential misuse of supplements, and what overdoses might look like.<br />Overall, this book will be useful primarily to the clinician, but others may be interested as well. I am not a clinician, but interested in alternative medicine and the science behind it. No other health book has satisfied my interest as well as this book. My only complaint is that Null sometimes overlooks negative studies, but appendix C does remedy this to some degree.nterested as well. I am not a clinician, but interested in alternative medicine and the science behind it. No other health book has satisfied my interest as well as this book. My only complaint is that Null sometimes overlooks negative studies, but appendix C does remedy this to some degree.	2004-02-20
US	51997044	R10EQWPJRYGGEN	0195288114	573459755	The Revised Standard Version Bible with Apocrypha	Books	4	29	30	N	Y	Great Bible That is Kind of Confusing...	I went looking for a good leather-bound Bible of the RSV translation with complete deuterocanon, and I found this one, which is durable and nice to read. I think the RSV is probably one of the best translations out there for traditional liturgical and catholic Christians (I am a traditional Anglican). The RSV generally fits this purpose much better than the politically correct NRSV, whose inclusive language obscures messianic passages. There is no comparison between the beautiful RSV psalms and the plain NRSV psalms.<br />Needless to say, I enjoy this edition of the RSV. It includes the entire Roman Catholic and Orthodox deuterocanon, 3+4 Maccabees, Psalm 151, and all the rest. However, the 50th anniversary edition I have has a few publication errors. First, the Genesis 37:15 typo a former reviewer mentioned is in mine as well. Also, Zechariah 11:2 has some type missing (which I wrote in). And then there is perhaps the strangest thing about this RSV, and that is the New Testament. It seems as if the Gospels/Acts (and Hebrews too) come from the regular RSV, and the rest of the NT comes from the RSV Catholic Edition. I own the RSV New Oxford Annotated Bible, and my 50th anniversary edition does not always match up with it. For instance, at Romans 9:5 the regular RSV reads in a way to not refer to Jesus' deity, whereas my 50th edition RSV reads, \\"Christ who is God over all,\\" matching the Catholic Edition exactly, which my brother owns. The same is true of other instances in the NT outside the gospels/Acts. See Romans 5:5, where the regular RSV reads \\"which\\" when referring to the Holy Spirit, but my 50th Ann. edition reads \\"who,\\" matching the RSV Catholic Edition. I compared the RSV Catholic Edition changes listed in my brother's RSV CE and about 80% of the catholic changes are in my 50th Anniversary edition RSV.<br />Perhaps I got a weird printing. Or Perhaps I am unaware of some alternate RSV edition out there that is different from the RSV New Oxford Annotated Text, and this explains why my 50th Anniversary edition reads differently at places. Either way, I enjoy the edition as I have it. The changes from the regular RSV make the New Testament more catholic and traditional, and for me this is a plus. Overall, this is a sturdy and visually appealing RSV Bible that Christians of all stripes will find helpful.and this explains why my 50th Anniversary edition reads differently at places. Either way, I enjoy the edition as I have it. The changes from the regular RSV make the New Testament more catholic and traditional, and for me this is a plus. Overall, this is a sturdy and visually appealing RSV Bible that Christians of all stripes will find helpful.	2003-12-15
US	51997044	R2R11SEH72V5FX	0814658873	876856252	Call to Holiness: Reflections on the Catholic Chrarismatic Renewal	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent Summary of The Catholic Charismatic Movement	\\"Call to Holiness\\" is a balanced reflection on the charismatic movement in the Roman Catholic Church. Cordes takes a generally positive view of the movement, while openly reflecting on the movement's weaknesses and potential weaknesses. He balances the collective revelation of the Holy Spirit, shown in the Church, and the personal experiences the Spirit produces in individuals. This seems like a difficult task, considering in many charismatic churches the charismatic experiences lead one away from ancient tradition and the leadership of the Church. As Cordes points out, in the Roman Catholic Church the opposite has occurred: charismatic experiences have led Catholics to a greater appreciation of Church tradition, the Bible, Mary, and other traditional Catholic beliefs and practices. Cordes emphasizes that the Holy Spirit is in all baptized believers, and even if they don't have any of the charisms (which incidentally, are available to all believers, not just canonized saints) they can still live in the Spirit in other ways.<br />The book is broken down into three chapters, and multiple sub-chapters. The first, \\"The Spiritual Renewal Coming From the Council,\\" discusses the call of Vatican II for greater renewal in the Holy Spirit within the Church, setting the stage for the charismatic renewal in the Catholic Church. Chapter 2, \\"The Experience of the Holy Spirit and Its Fruits,\\" covers the gifts of the Spirit, a theology of Pentecost, discernment, the role of Mary, holiness, renewed interest in scriptures and sacraments, and other elements of the charismatic movement. Chapter 3, \\"Gifted For Mission\\" explains the mission implications of the movement. Here Cordes defines and discusses the different charisms (and also how they relate to evangelism), charismatic prayer communities, and ecumenical dimensions of the movement. He discusses the need to work with other denominations, while never sacrificing the truth of the catholic tradition for a kind of \\"inclusive\\" church of the Spirit that ignores central tenets of the ancient faith.<br />Overall, this book is a fine reflection on the Catholic charismatic movement. The operative principle here is balance. Balance between personal and collective experience, between tradition and renewal, between the spiritual and visible. As someone who is new to the charismatic movement (in an Anglo-Catholic Anglican setting), it is nice to see the charismatic movement firmly rooted in the authority, doctrine, and practice (i.e. the collective experience), of the historical Church. For the skeptics, doubters, and those who worry that the charismatic movement leads to a kind of individualism and Protestantism, I suggest reading this balanced book.of the Spirit that ignores central tenets of the ancient faith.<br />Overall, this book is a fine reflection on the Catholic charismatic movement. The operative principle here is balance. Balance between personal and collective experience, between tradition and renewal, between the spiritual and visible. As someone who is new to the charismatic movement (in an Anglo-Catholic Anglican setting), it is nice to see the charismatic movement firmly rooted in the authority, doctrine, and practice (i.e. the collective experience), of the historical Church. For the skeptics, doubters, and those who worry that the charismatic movement leads to a kind of individualism and Protestantism, I suggest reading this balanced book.	2003-10-09
US	51997044	R2Q9I91JK93PXI	0028643771	517395681	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Music Theory	Books	5	413	417	N	N	Readable, Helpful, and Interesting Intro to Music Theory	Music theory is often seen as unnecessary and boring to even the most musically inclined persons. Many see it as a hindrance to their natural creativity. However, without a sense of music theory, nobody will progress from playing music, to understanding and even writing music.<br />I took a music theory class in college and used a textbook that tried to say the same things that Miller says, only the textbook was far more confusing. I think this book would actually make a fine textbook for an \\"Intro to Music Theory\\" class. He covers most basic topics, even assuming that the reader has no music knowledge. This is good for beginners, but for me it meant that I only skimmed the first few chapters. He does cover more advanced topics such as harmony, counterpoint, transcribing from audio, and transposing. At the end of each chapter, he has quizzes to review and test what was learned in the previous chapter. He includes most important topics in music theory, including scales, pitches, rhythm, melodies, chords, chord progressions, phrases, transcribing, arranging, writing lead sheets, and performing. At the end, the book has a glossary, a guitar and piano chord reference section, and answers to the quizzes at the end of each chapter.<br />Overall, this book has many good qualities. It is very readable and interesting. He also is able to convey difficult topics in an understandable way without sacrificing his point. Most music theory textbooks cannot do this, and overwhelm the reader. I would say this book is best for students who need an easy-to-understand book to complement a more advanced book, to clarify what they have learned in a music theory class. It is also good for musicians who don't want to be experts in music theory, but who wish to further their musical abilities. However, as I have said, it also works on its own, and I believe rivals many textbooks that are five times as expensive.	2003-08-11
US	51997044	R37K78KDB9BSII	0879101377	91125386	Songwriting: A Complete Guide to the Craft	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Basic and More Advanced Songwriting in One Book	I am not a songwriting professional, but thanks to thoroughly reading Citron's book, and skimming \\"You Can Write A Song\\" by Amy Appleby (and utilizing internet chord and scale building resources), I have written five songs. It is a fun experience to write a song for the first time.<br />Since I am at the very beginning of my songwriting hobby, I look for books that explain the basics clearly, but also allow room for growth with more advanced techniques and chord usage. I also want to know the music theory behind the lessons, so that in the future I can write without the formulas provided in the books. With the exception of Citron's book, I have rarely found a songwriting book that moves beyond basic music theory. In the roughly 150 pages Citron devotes to music, he teaches rhythm, scales, chords, harmony, and more, so that you will know what a C6 \\"chord\\" is, and what the Lydian mode is, even if you don't care. He also teaches melody-building by starting with a motive, developing into a phrase, and finally into a period, which is a quite organized way to focus ideas. Maybe all of this is not necessary for a beginning (or straight rock) songwriter, but in an age where every Joe and Jane write songs, knowing more than the basics might put you at an advantage if you wish to make a career out of it.<br />Citron also covers lyrics. The first 125 pages are devoted to crafting lyrics (construction and form, types of song, rhyme, and word usage). He discusses how various styles have developed, such as rock and jazz. He covers important topics like accents, rhyme schemes, and poetical forms. At the end, he has a helpful glossary.<br />Overall, this book is appropriate for the beginning songwriter (with some musical experience). While much of what Citron writes is indeed for the more intermediate songwriter, he also covers the basics, explaining time signatures, note values, accidentals, etc. This is why I bought and enjoy this book: he explains the basics and then takes you to a higher level if you wish. If you don't care about ninth chords, modal scales, or other more advanced topics, then read it and forget it, but even some of the best rock, folk, and country writers have used more advanced chords and scales. Ultimately it took me getting out a keyboard, setting its rhythm, and playing chords to get me from reading about songwriting to actually writing. However, once I took that step, Citron's book proved very helpful in getting my songs ready. One drawback is that the book is from the 1980s, and he doesn't cover the newer genres. Another is that he covers so many genres that those seeking rock or country writing might not find the specifics they need. However, the fundamentals are the fundamentals.to a higher level if you wish. If you don't care about ninth chords, modal scales, or other more advanced topics, then read it and forget it, but even some of the best rock, folk, and country writers have used more advanced chords and scales. Ultimately it took me getting out a keyboard, setting its rhythm, and playing chords to get me from reading about songwriting to actually writing. However, once I took that step, Citron's book proved very helpful in getting my songs ready. One drawback is that the book is from the 1980s, and he doesn't cover the newer genres. Another is that he covers so many genres that those seeking rock or country writing might not find the specifics they need. However, the fundamentals are the fundamentals.	2003-07-31
US	51997044	R1JOMNK2C3L937	0937032255	153074619	Introducing the Orthodox Church: Its Faith and Life	Books	5	21	22	N	N	An Interesting and Clear Presentation of Orthodox Theology	Coniaris has written what is perhaps the best primer on Orthodoxy. As an Anglican, I have often considered becoming Orthodox as our communion becomes beset with problems. Whenever I have a theological question, particularly a sacramental one, I usually consult this book first. It is highly detailed, yet simple and easily understood. A caption in the front of the book suggests it is for those curious about the Orthodox faith, and for confirmation classes, and I think it is excellent for both.<br />Some of the topics include The Church, Jesus, the Nicene Creed, Icons, Sacraments (i.e. mysteries), Prayer, and the Bible. Coniaris' tone is non-polemical, and he does not condemn others as he lauds the Orthodox faith. This is in contrast to Frank Schaeffer's writings, which are also intended for those discovering Orthodoxy. In some ways all 215 pages of this book read like a historical Christian commentary on major themes, because the writings and wisdom of the ancient Church are generously quoted. However, Coniaris does keep the discussion current as well. He uses many jokes and modern illustrations to explain key theological points. For instance, when describing the mystery (and difficulty) of the Trinity he tells of a boy singing in the choir of a Church that uses the Athanasian creed. When the little boy sang the 8th verse, the boy would sing under his breath, \\"The Father incomprehensible, the Son incomprehensible, the Holy Spirit incomprehensible, ...the whole thing incomprehensible!\\"<br />Overall, this is a fine book for those exploring the Orthodox Church, those in it, and those who just want a taste of ancient Eastern Christian theology. Often in the Western churches the wisdom of Chrysostom, Gregory Palamas, Symeon, and other great theologians are largely ignored. Thus, this book has many purposes, and even if you don't read it all the way through, keep it as a reference book; there is a lot of great theology contained within.	2003-06-17
US	51997044	R2QKGFUHAQI5FE	0801067634	634478000	Becoming a Minister (Classical Pastoral Care Series, Vol. 1)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Pastoral Care Before 1700 AD	Oden has an interesting goal, which is to explore *classical* Christian pastoral care. This means that Oden does not use any sources prior to 1700. To many professors of pastoral care, this might seem worthy of a pamphlet, but a four book series, surely not? Truth be known, pastoral care is not a modern phenomenon, despite what most pastoral care manuals might suggest. In fact, if one probes the writings of great Christians from the Bible until the 1700s, great wisdom and insight are available for pastors and priests seeking to better understand and practice their ministerial office.<br />This volume (One of Four) focuses on becoming a minister, including the individual and community's call, classical pastoral metaphors, and ordination. He discusses different understandings of ecclesial offices, including bishop, presbyter, and deacon. He also outlines the traditional means of preparing for soul care, including moral development, and the balance of academics and practical training. Throughout the book Oden generally embraces doctrines, practices, and metaphors for pastoral care that are based on classical ecumenical agreement, that is, on doctrines and practices that the worldwide Church has embraced. For instance, if Roman Catholics have a particular practice that is unknown to Anglicans and Orthodox, it is likely Oden might explain it, but he will fall back on the more ecumenical view. This makes his book useful for most mainline Christians in the catholic tradition. However, Oden does accept women's ordination, making generally good arguments in its favor.<br />This book is useful because it is littered with classical Christian wisdom. There is more text quoted from classical Christian writers than Oden himself has written. The major figures, including John Chrysostom, Augustine, Gregory the Great, Luther, and others are liberally represented. Even smaller figures are quoted, showing the depth of Oden's knowledge in this field. Sometimes, the book has so much information built into each chapter it can be trying reading. However, that potential weakness aside, as modernism is dying, and its ideas are seen in a far worse light, Oden's book is a breath of fresh air. Believe it or not, Pastoral Care is far more than just the thought of 19th and 20th century secular thinkers expressed with church terminology. Oden shows that the classical catholic tradition has much value for pastors and future pastors, and I wish this were a standard textbook in today's seminaries.ormation built into each chapter it can be trying reading. However, that potential weakness aside, as modernism is dying, and its ideas are seen in a far worse light, Oden's book is a breath of fresh air. Believe it or not, Pastoral Care is far more than just the thought of 19th and 20th century secular thinkers expressed with church terminology. Oden shows that the classical catholic tradition has much value for pastors and future pastors, and I wish this were a standard textbook in today's seminaries.	2003-06-11
US	51997044	R3KEKW0M3MWC6K	0830826548	582329611	Ancient & Postmodern Christianity: Paleo-Orthodoxy in the 21st Century--Essays In Honor of Thomas C. Oden	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Great Essays on Bringing the Ancient Faith to Today's World	I enjoyed this collection of essays, but I must admit I was dubious at first, since many collections such as this are so scholarly that even I, a scholar, get bored to tears. These essays are actually quite good, and written in honor of one of my favorite scholars and authors, Thomas Oden. Oden has written many books advocating a return to the ancient and historical faith when doing theology and ethics, instead of relying solely on modernist texts and values. This is what makes Oden ancient and Postmodern (i.e. beyond/after modernism) because he rejects many modernist assumptions and returns to ancient theology. However he does not return to a pre-modern worldview, but rather accepts much of modernism's science and progress. So it's not about \\"going back,\\" but about bringing the ancient and catholic faith to one's own time period. The essays in this book generally all reflect such an outlook.<br />These essays do a good job of bringing the ancient faith to today's world. Christian postmodernism seems to be much different than cultural postmodernism. In some ways, Christian postmodernism is moving beyond the modernism of the Church with its individualism, hyper-rationalism, etc. In other words, now that modernism is effectively dead, many see a chance for the Church to return to its experience of the Jesus of Nicene orthodoxy and live its radical ethics without worrying about the latest secular scholarly paper on Jesus. Both conservative and liberal modernists will probably be equally outraged at many essays in this book, although the book has a more conservative bent, because the catholic faith consists of certain long-held beliefs.<br />My favorite essays are the ones about worship, including ones written by Robert Webber, Thomas Howard, and Joel Scandrett. Wolfhart Pannenberg's essay on the Resurrection is quite good, as is David Mills' essay on doctrine, although it sounds a bit too polemical at times for my tastes. Stanley Grenz and John Franke's essay on Tradition is quite enlightening, and is in some ways the most \\"postmodern\\" of all essays. Other essays are more scholarly, and while I have skimmed them, they have not intrigued me as much as the ones that relate more to how Christian doctrine affects Christian experience. The authors come from Anglican, Roman Catholic, United Methodist, and other traditions, making the views quite broad. Overall I enjoyed this book. As an Anglican, much of what I read makes sense, but for those in more traditionally evangelical churches the emphasis on Eucharist, sacraments, and Church authority might seem more revolutionary. Either way, this book does a good job of taking the ancient faith and applying it for today's world, although by the very nature of postmodernism, defining what \\"today's world\\" is will vary among readers.ion is quite enlightening, and is in some ways the most \\"postmodern\\" of all essays. Other essays are more scholarly, and while I have skimmed them, they have not intrigued me as much as the ones that relate more to how Christian doctrine affects Christian experience. The authors come from Anglican, Roman Catholic, United Methodist, and other traditions, making the views quite broad. Overall I enjoyed this book. As an Anglican, much of what I read makes sense, but for those in more traditionally evangelical churches the emphasis on Eucharist, sacraments, and Church authority might seem more revolutionary. Either way, this book does a good job of taking the ancient faith and applying it for today's world, although by the very nature of postmodernism, defining what \\"today's world\\" is will vary among readers.	2003-06-04
US	51997044	R2677CKENG9A18	078795599X	52865741	A New Kind of Christian: A Tale of Two Friends on a Spiritual Journey	Books	5	15	22	N	Y	Challenging and Compelling	A burnt-out evangelical pastor (Daniel) learns about God from a Jamaican ex-Presbyterian pastor and now Episcopalian science teacher (Neo). For many readers, this might be enough information to justify throwing out the book as \\"liberal\\" right away. However, I hope the curious will read on, because this book is hardly liberal...but nor is it conservative. The book is about postmodern Christianity, something beyond modernist labels.<br />The book is a dialogue, and much like the ancient dialogues of Plato and the early Christians, the fictional stories are meant to teach some truth. The characters deal with many issues, including the Bible, science, other faiths, other cultures, and pastoral responsibility. Neo is the voice of postmodern Christianity, while Daniel is the conservative modernist holder-on. The dialogues will seem very controversial for many readers. For instance, Neo suggests that a nation can be culturally Muslim, yet transformed by Christ, and therefore Christian. He says that the new birth is not about \\"accepting Jesus as personal Lord and Savior,\\" which of course is not mentioned in the Bible, but more mysterious, even including good non-Christians. Neo criticizes our view of salvation as \\"getting in\\" and then trying to get others \\"in,\\" without being concerned about being like Jesus. Neo asks why a popular college Christian group does not have fellowship with the more mainline Churches, the Catholics, or more liberal groups? He then compares \\"contemporary\\" churches to the Roman Catholic Church on the verge of the Reformation, at their height, but ready to fall. He says that modernist mechanical understandings of God's providence betray the ancient notion of sovereignty. The controversial postmodern responses are many.<br />To me, many of these ideas are not revolutionary. Some I am uncomfortable with, but by confronting them, I do learn something new. I found myself highlighting quite a bit of the text, because McLaren has strengthened many of my own recent conclusions about postmodernity and Christianity. For many people, his ideas will seem very dangerous, and a matter of concern. The problem for those calling him \\"liberal,\\" is that McLaren does not throw out historical Christianity. He quotes many quite traditional Christians, such as C.S. Lewis, to support his arguments. He never wants to \\"change Christianity or else it will die\\" as some modernist writers wish to do. He is simply trying to take Christianity out of modernity. Let's face it, most people today have been raised in Churches whose doctrines and practices are thoroughly enmeshed with modernism. Modernism's rationalism, legalism, imperialism, and exclusivism (and a great number of other \\"isms\\") are dying. Perhaps entering the new era of postmodernity is scary, but many young people are already postmodern without knowing it, so the book will probably be a breath of fresh air for these individuals. Overall, this book is controversial, challenging, compelling, and at times, will make us all feel uncomfortable, which is what makes it such a great book.n recent conclusions about postmodernity and Christianity. For many people, his ideas will seem very dangerous, and a matter of concern. The problem for those calling him \\"liberal,\\" is that McLaren does not throw out historical Christianity. He quotes many quite traditional Christians, such as C.S. Lewis, to support his arguments. He never wants to \\"change Christianity or else it will die\\" as some modernist writers wish to do. He is simply trying to take Christianity out of modernity. Let's face it, most people today have been raised in Churches whose doctrines and practices are thoroughly enmeshed with modernism. Modernism's rationalism, legalism, imperialism, and exclusivism (and a great number of other \\"isms\\") are dying. Perhaps entering the new era of postmodernity is scary, but many young people are already postmodern without knowing it, so the book will probably be a breath of fresh air for these individuals. Overall, this book is controversial, challenging, compelling, and at times, will make us all feel uncomfortable, which is what makes it such a great book.	2003-03-18
US	51997044	R1P6GUVEQT1W6A	0801091527	407109257	The Younger Evangelicals: Facing the Challenges of the New World	Books	5	17	22	N	Y	Revolutionary...and Perhaps scary For Those Over 30	Robert Webber has once again written about what it means to be \\"postmodern\\" as opposed to \\"modern.\\" Only this time, Webber distinguishes among \\"Traditional Evangelicals\\" (3 hymns, sermon, etc) and \\"Pragmatic Evangelicals\\" (\\"Contemporary, praise songs) and \\"Younger Evangelicals.\\" The entire book explains what a Younger Evangelical is, and how these Christians differ from many Christians whose expression of faith is embedded in modernism. At the end of each chapter, Webber has very useful tables that compare the beliefs of each group. For instance, in Chapter 4 (History) the attitudes to historical approach are compared. Traditional Evangelicals \\"maintain Reformation distinctions,\\" while Pragmatic Evangelicals \\"start something new; innovate.\\" However, Younger Evangelicals believe, \\"the future runs through the past.\\"<br />Younger Evangelicals are more traditional, very arts oriented, sacramental/symbolic, less legalistic, and seek meaning, as opposed to entertainment, from worship. They are leaving \\"contemporary\\" churches for ones that are more connected to the ancient Church. They are reading their Bibles in less literal ways, and see room for disagreement on controversial scripture passages, including the creation stories. Younger Evangelicals are more likely to take Eucharist weekly than sit through long sermons, and they seek a visible church, as opposed to an invisible one. In general, many young Christians are unsatisfied with both \\"traditional\\" and \\"contemporary\\" worship, and prefer a blending of the two, where the rich tradition of the Church is alive, but contextualized for each era.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book, as I do all of Webber's books. Writers like Webber, Thomas Oden, Brian McLaren, and others speak to me as a postmodern Christian. Often Webber's yearnings are my yearnings. His students' concerns are the concerns of many friends of mine, as well as my own. Much of what Younger Evangelicals want is part of the catholic tradition, while evangelicalism, both traditional and contemporary, has been effective at ignoring church history. But it is not just about \\"going back.\\" It is about rendering the ancient Christian tradition, worship, the Bible, and doctrine in a contextually relevant way. However, rather than change the Church based on culture (as many contemporary churches do to make church &quot;cool&quot;), Younger Evangelicals approach culture, and current humanist disciplines, through the lens of the ancient beliefs and practices of the Church.<br />If you no longer find meaning in your church, but don't want to give up on Christ, perhaps you are a postmodern in a modern church. Reading this book will be a start to rediscovering Christ in your own era. However, postmodernism is so broad, nobody will agree with *everything* Webber says (that would be rather modernist). For evangelicals under age 30, this book will provide some framework for what you probably already believe, and for people over 30, it might be a bit frightening.alism, both traditional and contemporary, has been effective at ignoring church history. But it is not just about \\"going back.\\" It is about rendering the ancient Christian tradition, worship, the Bible, and doctrine in a contextually relevant way. However, rather than change the Church based on culture (as many contemporary churches do to make church &quot;cool&quot;), Younger Evangelicals approach culture, and current humanist disciplines, through the lens of the ancient beliefs and practices of the Church. <br />If you no longer find meaning in your church, but don't want to give up on Christ, perhaps you are a postmodern in a modern church. Reading this book will be a start to rediscovering Christ in your own era. However, postmodernism is so broad, nobody will agree with *everything* Webber says (that would be rather modernist). For evangelicals under age 30, this book will provide some framework for what you probably already believe, and for people over 30, it might be a bit frightening.	2003-03-18
US	51997044	R3B2RSL9PMHD2H	0226653714	584632931	The Christian Tradition: A History of the Development of Doctrine, Vol. 1: The Emergence of the Catholic Tradition (100-600)	Books	5	154	157	N	N	Part One in an Important and Monumental Series	This book is probably, page for page, the most scholarly and readable of all the history of doctrine books about the early Church (although Kelley's \\"Early Christian Doctrines\\" comes close). Pelikan's style is concise, but also detailed, in that on every page he provides references for just about every important thing he says. Pelikan has a take on doctrine that is shared by most scholars and clergy, which is that doctrine developed, and that what the apostles believed was less defined and cloudier than what the later Church believed. In other words, from studying the Bible and the early writers, we see that their formulations and emphases often differed from later generations. For instance, the doctrine of original sin is rarely spoken of before Augustine, and early creeds were less clear about the Son's full equality with the Father, even though they called the Son \\"God.\\" For those unfamiliar with Christian history, to see important doctrines develop might be troubling, although as many Christians already know, the development and clarification of a doctrine does not make it less true.<br />Pelikan covers all of the major figures and controversies, looking at orthodox and heretic arguments. He explains why orthodox doctrine prevailed, geographically, politically, and philosophically. The major chapters are, 1. Preparatio Evangelica, 2. Outside the Mainstream. 3. Faith of the Catholic Church, 4. Mystery of the Trinity, 5. Person of the God-Man, 6. Nature and Grace, and 7. Orthodox Consensus. Each is then broken down to several sub-chapters.<br />Do not expect a Biblical defense of the Trinity or any other doctrine from this book. Pelikan clearly explains that catholic belief came after a long and hard consideration of biblical concepts, with many dissenters who interpreted the Bible differently. The chapter on the Trinity for instance focuses on the varying ways of interpreting the relationship of Jesus to the Father. This includes heretic doctrines of Modalism, and Adoptianism, as well as proto-orthodox Logos-Theology, and the Nicene Trinity. While he explains the views of those outside the catholic mainstream, even often arguing on their behalf, he (and most scholars outside of a few in the 1800s) does not believe that the heretical groups throughout history agreed on doctrine and practice (they did not) and formed an underground church.<br /><br />Overall, this is a fine book that I use as a reference quite often. His whole series, of which this is the first, is very useful. Another reviewer below, Alan Wong, provides the ISBN numbers of the other books. For anyone wanting to dig deeper in his or her study of Christian doctrine and history, I would suggest this book. It is not for beginners though. He often uses Greek and Latin terms, as well as other \\"churchy\\" terms that are probably unfamiliar to most people. Chadwick's \\"The Early Church\\" and Reader's Digest's \\"After Jesus,\\" which is co-edited by Pelikan, are the best places to start. However, after those have intrigued you, move on to Pelikan and you won't be disappointed.and Adoptianism, as well as proto-orthodox Logos-Theology, and the Nicene Trinity. While he explains the views of those outside the catholic mainstream, even often arguing on their behalf, he (and most scholars outside of a few in the 1800s) does not believe that the heretical groups throughout history agreed on doctrine and practice (they did not) and formed an underground church.  <BR> <BR>Overall, this is a fine book that I use as a reference quite often. His whole series, of which this is the first, is very useful. Another reviewer below, Alan Wong, provides the ISBN numbers of the other books. For anyone wanting to dig deeper in his or her study of Christian doctrine and history, I would suggest this book. It is not for beginners though. He often uses Greek and Latin terms, as well as other \\"churchy\\" terms that are probably unfamiliar to most people. Chadwick's \\"The Early Church\\" and Reader's Digest's \\"After Jesus,\\" which is co-edited by Pelikan, are the best places to start. However, after those have intrigued you, move on to Pelikan and you won't be disappointed.	2003-01-27
US	51997044	R1Z0NY9CWCR3AF	0028620445	583351606	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Investing like a Pro	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Simple Explanations of Effective Investments	Koch and DeSalvo have complied a comprehensive investment guide for the average person. Even those with financial experience who need information in a concise and user-friendly manner will benefit from owning this book. I am not ashamed to own \\"Idiot's\\" guides, simply because I have my own area of specialty, and do not have the time or will to specialize in every area in which I have a passing need or interest. This is where this book comes in, because most people don't have time to get a degree in finance or an investment license just to make their money grow.<br />This book covers the basics like investment risk tolerance, investment needs, and then covers ways to make more money available to invest. The authors point out that saving money is a form of tax-free investment. Then the authors discuss stocks, mutual funds, home ownership, saving for college, and reducing taxes. Finally they explore more risky investments like options and futures, as well as providing tips for online investing. The book has a few glossy pages, numerous charts and tables, and a glossary.<br />Overall, I recommend this book wholeheartedly. I knew nothing about investing until recently, and after I got my Series 7 license, I realized that this book had provided me with a strong background with which to begin studying. Honestly, after working with many financial planners, I think this book is probably more useful than many financial planners out there. While it won't make you an expert, it will provide the basic essential information the average beginning investor needs. Read this, and then move on to more advanced books, but all the while, start investing and making money.	2003-01-16
US	51997044	R30JY3AJAAA9Y6	1565633962	473437432	Day by Day With the Early Church Fathers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty Good Devotional Tool...	This book is an excellent devotional tool. The time it takes to read the daily devotion, which consists of a bible verse and passage from a Church Father, is rather short. This makes it a good addition to regular prayer or devotional time. At the end of the book, brief biographies of many early Christian writers appear, as well as sources for the texts used.<br />The book has many good aspects. First, the readings are brief and rendered into modern English. Second, the book is a simple and non-threatening way to learn about God through early Christian writers. For the most part, Church history is inaccessible to most Christians, or else confined to history books. To see the early Christian writers come alive in this way is encouraging.<br />The book does have a drawback as far as I am concerned. The topics appear to be chosen almost randomly, and really do not reflect the Church calendar. With the exception of Christmas, the book does not rely on the Church calendar in any real way. While some feasts are moveable (such as Easter, Lent, etc) and could not be exactly represented in this book, other days like Epiphany and All Saints Day are fixed. While this won't be a problem for many, I like to base my personal worship time on the Church calendar (which most of the writers in this book pioneered and celebrated). Regardless, the book is a good way to make the wisdom of past Christians a part of devotional time.	2003-01-09
US	51997044	R3MYDOE0U0WRGI	0914675230	327547365	Crisis of Conscience	Books	5	274	297	N	N	Credible Testimony about the Watchtower	About 12 years ago I considered myself the \\"cult-buster.\\" In my young mind I could, armed with proof-texts, shoot down any cult member, especially Jehovah's Witnesses. Unfortunately I was just as rigid and legalistic as the Jehovah's Witnesses I would witness to. Actually most of them were less chained to their ideology than I was. Unfortunately, many books that reach out to Jehovah's witnesses are written by conservative JWs turned conservative Baptist, who take a different doctrinal stance, but still do not shed the notion that only \\"Only I and those Christians like me have the truth.\\" Franz, on the contrary, offers a more balanced appraisal. Unlike other books written by former JWs, Franz seems more saddened than angry, and his tone reflects this. This style displays his personality, which was in constant conflict with the Watchtower's rigid leadership.<br />Franz does not detail doctrinal problems with the Watchtower. Franz most likely holds to many of his old Watchtower doctrines. The Watchtower does have doctrinal problems when compared with the beliefs commonly held by the Church throughout Christian history. In fact the Watchtower is in my opinion just another apocalyptic group founded in the mid-late 1800s. However, Franz is not concerned with issues like the Trinity or Christ's divinity. He is more concerned with what makes a group truly a cult, which is control by the leaders over its members. Franz details this marvelously, and explains how the Watchtower even monitored its members bedroom activities. He speaks of disfellowshippings where families were encouraged to \\"shun\\" other members who had been kicked out of the Watchtower, effectively ruining the lives of thousands people. Franz also documents and explains failed prophecy, which caused many trusting members of the \\"truth\\" to sell homes, postpone college, and other goals in order to be ready for the end. The entire book is a calm and sober, yet highly personal, account of Franz's life deep within the Watchtower and his eventual exit.<br />Franz's book is a breath of fresh air. I believe that many who write anti-cult books are themselves so concerned with minor issues, that they themselves sometimes come across as cultish. Their tone is often disrespectful, which I think turns off educated people. As someone who studys Christian history and embraces its doctrines and practices, I think the Watchtower is indeed incorrect in certain areas of its theology and its practice, but I think its \\"cult\\" status hinges on its leadership's control over members. Franz's book documents this fact in a fashion befitting of Christ's love and mercy.e Watchtower and his eventual exit. <br />Franz's book is a breath of fresh air. I believe that many who write anti-cult books are themselves so concerned with minor issues, that they themselves sometimes come across as cultish. Their tone is often disrespectful, which I think turns off educated people. As someone who studys Christian history and embraces its doctrines and practices, I think the Watchtower is indeed incorrect in certain areas of its theology and its practice, but I think its \\"cult\\" status hinges on its leadership's control over members. Franz's book documents this fact in a fashion befitting of Christ's love and mercy.	2003-01-09
US	51997044	R1QR9ICQ41HMGJ	0028643747	255105475	The Complete Idiot's Guide To Personal Finance in Your 20s and 30s (2nd Edition)	Books	5	65	69	N	N	Financial Guidance for methe 24 year-old Idiot	Okay, I am not an idiot by most standards. I do have a Master's Degree and certificates telling me honor societies let me join them. However, despite all my specialized studies, I learned very little about finances, investments, and economics. Since I try not to discuss things I know little about, at parties I avoided these topics. However, party-talk aside, the major benefit to knowing about finance is that it can help you plan you and your family's future.<br />Fisher and Shelly have compiled a very easy to read and direct book. I am a beginner, and felt as if I grasped most of what I read. Some of the material was even basic for me. They discuss bank accounts (compound or simple interest?), credit (annual fee or not?), personal budgets (do you need that $.70 Coke out of the machine everyday?), investments (CD here is not compact disc!), Housing, and much more. They cover every important aspect of personal finance for younger people approaching middle age. They make use of some quizzes so you can evaluate your financial know-how.  The book will even pay for itself if you follow the 40 ways to save 10 dollars a week section. I have used many of their tips already. I recently (finally) got a credit card in order to establish my credit, but was sure to shop around using the web pages they provided.<br />Overall, this is not an advanced book, but it does cover the basic points. Some points might seem very simple and commonsense, but many of us have not had any education in financial matters. If you are in your 20s and 30s and feel like you have no financial guidelines or knowledge (as I did), this book should get you started in the right direction.	2002-07-26
US	51997044	R18HLGQPK9OEFX	080106029X	574697962	Ancient-Future Faith: Rethinking Evangelicalism for a Postmodern World	Books	5	46	51	N	N	Highly relevant and insightful	I found this book exciting and easy to read. The reason is that Webber connects the ethic and doctrine of the ancient Church to the postmodern world. The situations are quite similar. Webber, a conservative Baptist turned evangelical Episcopalian, argues that the history of the Church consists of different paradigms. Each paradigm is a different expression of the faith, relevant for the time, but inadequate for later generations. Thus, while reformation theology of Sola Scriptura was necessary to counteract the excesses of the later Middle Ages, for the postmodern (and for the early) Church it doesn't work very well (it has led to 1000s of denominations). Webber has some very helpful tables comparing beliefs of different paradigms.<br />Webber correctly observes that postmodern people are more diverse, less concerned about minor doctrinal differences, and more symbolic. This coincides with new scientific theories that posit a dynamic, non-Newtonian universe. So how can we find authority and meaning? The answer is classical Christianity. Enlightenment rationalism doesn't work anymore, as relativity destroys any idea of objectivity, so theology must be done in the context of the Christian community, the Church, as it was in early Christianity. The Church provides the interpretive authority of the Bible through the creeds. However, this authority is broad, and is something that Catholics, Orthodox, and (most) Protestants share in common (see Vincent of Lerins' canon). As in the early Church, Jesus is the ultimate focal point of the Church, and apostolic tradition and the Bible point to him.<br />Webber makes use of the \\"Christus Victor\\" model of the Atonement. This is the predominant theory of the Atonement expounded by the early Church. This theory says that Jesus, in his Incarnation, death, resurrection, and teachings, conquered evil. It is holistic, rather than narrowing down \\"when\\" Christ saved us, such as at the Crucifixion. Thus there is room for unity and mystery in the doctrine, just as in the early Church.<br />Ultimately, as Modernity dies, Webber advocates a return to the early church of the Fathers. Thus the Church needs to be less individualistic, unified by the creeds, symbolic, sacramental, and arts oriented. However, Webber doesn't want postmodern values to *shape* the Church (e.g. when the Church is a business or side-show), but rather that the Church must be able to convey its basic truth in the postmodern world. Webber is simply advocating what many are already doing: rediscovering the riches of ancient Christianity, dismissed by many enlightenment-era Christians as \\"outdated\\" (liberals), or \\"irrelevant to faith\\" (fundamentalists). The era of Classical Christianity, when major doctrines were shaped, ethics were worked out, and the canon closed, is neither outdated nor irrelevant.y in the doctrine, just as in the early Church.<br />Ultimately, as Modernity dies, Webber advocates a return to the early church of the Fathers. Thus the Church needs to be less individualistic, unified by the creeds, symbolic, sacramental, and arts oriented. However, Webber doesn't want postmodern values to *shape* the Church (e.g. when the Church is a business or side-show), but rather that the Church must be able to convey its basic truth in the postmodern world. Webber is simply advocating what many are already doing: rediscovering the riches of ancient Christianity, dismissed by many enlightenment-era Christians as \\"outdated\\" (liberals), or \\"irrelevant to faith\\" (fundamentalists). The era of Classical Christianity, when major doctrines were shaped, ethics were worked out, and the canon closed, is neither outdated nor irrelevant.	2002-06-28
US	51997044	R1C8XAXC3L0ZUB	0310753910	347528503	After Modernity...What?	Books	5	13	13	N	N	What is next?	The word postmodern is thrown around quite a bit. Given the nature of this post-modern age, even the term postmodern is likely to have a variety of nuances. Oden provides one interpretation. This interpretation is that postmodernity allows for a return to classical orthodoxy, i.e. the Christianity of the first millennium. So for Oden, writers such as Gregory of Nyssa, Athanasius, and Clement are more important to Christian theology than recent theologians who attempt to construct \\"new\\" theology. Indeed Oden is correct in that modernity kept telling us what was \\"relevant\\" and what was not. We were constantly told what we could and could not believe, despite the fact that most modern peoples probably conceived of God `incorrectly.' Thus, modernity, with its promise of human progress, ended up seeming elitist and quite irrelevant.<br />Oden is not a fundamentalist. His tradition might be described as something of a conservative evangelical catholic. He critiques fundamentalism, pointing out (correctly) that fundamentalism is simply just another modern movement, that only could have come out of the Cartesian/Enlightenment era. Oden also critiques the more pietistic and ultra-liberal forms of Christianity, preferring an ecumenical consensual orthodoxy as explained by Vincent of Lerins, `that which has been everywhere and always and by everyone believed.' Thus Oden proposes a return to Orthodoxy grounded in the center, one that virtually every mainline denomination and classical Christian writers can affirm. Oden is not pre-modern though. He critiques those who claim to be pre-modern, asserting that such a claim is impossible. This is why postmodern `paleo-orthodox' Christians, such as Oden, embrace modern science, critical enquiry, etc.<br />Overall, I think Oden has written an excellent book. He critiques modernity's methods and assumptions, and (I believe) generally avoids falling into conservative error, by being grounded in the ancient orthodox Christian writers. I think the `Vincentian canon,' while certainly appealing, is doubtful as an actual historical reality. However, as a model, it is still useful, so long as we recognize its weaknesses (as Oden does). I took issue with Oden's distaste for Vatican II. Despite its weaknesses, it brought the Roman Catholic Church into the current age, and caused them to leave behind various late-medieval practices. Generally, this is a thought provoking book, and a good angle on the postmodern age for those of us grounded in the catholic tradition.think the `Vincentian canon,' while certainly appealing, is doubtful as an actual historical reality. However, as a model, it is still useful, so long as we recognize its weaknesses (as Oden does). I took issue with Oden's distaste for Vatican II. Despite its weaknesses, it brought the Roman Catholic Church into the current age, and caused them to leave behind various late-medieval practices. Generally, this is a thought provoking book, and a good angle on the postmodern age for those of us grounded in the catholic tradition.	2002-05-31
US	51997044	R1FAV8VSYLD69V	0192880713	705147989	Documents of the Christian Church	Books	5	69	71	N	N	Good introduction, providing primary texts!	Henry Bettenson and Chris Maunder have done a great job of collecting some of the most important documents of the Christian religion from the beginning until today. Almost every major controversy in the universal Church is represented by a document or two. For instance, Arianism, Montanism, Sabellianism, etc, are all covered. Sometimes the writings of the heretics are thrown in for a more balanced perspective. As the authors move past the Reformation, the book becomes less useful. Since there are so many documents from various denominations, it becomes impossible to fit all of them in one small book. The Church of England is heavily represented, as are other religious movements in England. The documents of the Roman Catholic Church are represented, including documents of Trent and Vatican II. Luther's entire `95 Theses' are included. Some of the modern documents relate to issues of women's ordination, black theology, social justice, homosexuality, ecumenical relations, and AIDS. These are useful because they give documents from our own time.<br />Overall this is a good collection. However, for every document included, there were 20 more that could have been added. This is just the nature of the book. The editors did a great job of choosing relevant documents. So it's a good collection that will scratch the surface, acting as an introduction, but is by no means the only book someone studying Christian thought in-depth would need. However, the book provides original texts, which many people rarely get to read, so that is quite a treat. While the book is small, the print is tiny, so they manage to squeeze in a lot of material in 461 pages! As a collection of primary texts, this is one of the best introductions to the thought of the Church from its birth until today.	2002-05-31
US	51997044	R3J0HHGGCV6YN9	0826455174	764256629	The Shape of the Liturgy	Books	5	66	67	N	N	*The* Classic of Liturgical Studies	Most Liturgical scholars own a copy of Dix's `Shape of the Liturgy.' The reason is that Dix is perhaps the most thorough and erudite liturgical scholar of the 20th century. `Shape' is a classic that has fundamentally shaped most Protestant and Catholic denominations. To the person not familiar with `liturgy,' it means `work of the people,' and is the way in which Christians have traditionally worshipped. It is a common worship, in which the worship of various separate churches is similar, but varies by time of year, and with the local culture.<br />Dix starts with an introduction to the Liturgy; then he moves on to the performance of the Liturgy. Then he begins his historical quest, in which he attempts to find the roots of the liturgy in the Biblical documents, moving into the pre-Nicene time period. It was in the very early pre-Nicene times that the Eucharist came to consist of a four-action shape: offering, thanksgiving, fraction, and communion. He discusses the Eucharistic prayer, the local traditions, the meaning and theology of the Eucharist, consecration theology, sanctification of time, and the ceremonial. He then discusses the completion of the shape, and the use of variable prayers. Then he covers the medieval liturgy, the Reformation liturgies (with particular attention to Anglican issues), and a call for renewal.<br />Overall, Dix's work is monumental. Sometimes, it is a bit too monumental. The work is 764 pages long. Much of what he says could be condensed into probably 200 pages effectively. However, his attention to detail is marvelous: he has read every Church father writing 2-3 times! Dix is partly responsible for the rediscovery of Liturgy in most mainline Churches, from the Evangelical Lutheran Church to the United Methodist Church. His research into early liturgies has demonstrated the Jewish nature of many Christian liturgies. I highly recommend this book. However, a little patience is needed to get through the entire book.	2002-05-31
US	51997044	RTLV2DYZL60TF	082322113X	792455419	The Symbolic Imagination: Coleridge and the Romantic Tradition (Studies in Religion and Literature)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Romanticism, Imagination and Samuel Taylor Coleridge	Catholic priest Robert Barth outlines Samuel Taylor Coleridge's Romantic thought in a concise and easy to read manner. No, Coleridge was not just a poet; he was also a learned theologian and classicist. His Romantic thought consists of elevating the Imagination above mechanical reason, especially in theology. The Imagination is where we perceive symbol, and where we create symbols, such as in art, poetry, or music. When we create symbols, we participate in the creative action of God, the great \\"I Am.\\" Thus for Coleridge, a worship service is a much better way to meet God than say, compiling a systematic theology. This is because the worship service appeals to the imagination through the symbols: bread, wine, stained glass, liturgy, music, etc.<br />Symbols are not \\"mere\\" representations. Symbols participate in the reality they symbolize, so that a handshake actually participates in brotherhood. A symbol, such as a handshake, is translucent and reveals eternal truth in the temporal. A symbol is almost synonymous with \\"sacrament,\\" in that speaking a word of forgiveness, or breaking bread and wine, are symbols that point to actions and realities outside of themselves. While allegory fades and may be deconstructed, symbols are lasting and enduring, and are all somehow united with one another and God. Thus Coleridge owes much to neo-Platonism and the early Christian writers.<br />As an example of the differences between mechanical and imaginative perception, Coleridge believes that the mechanical mind only sees juxtapositions and order. A doctrine such as the Trinity seems absurd when perceived rationally, but in the imagination, the three and the one may \\"interpenetrate.\\" This has implications for interpretation of the Bible. Chapter 6 of Barth deals primarily with this. Coleridge believes that literalists and anti-Christian scoffers all err, because they interpret the Bible in a mechanical way. They miss truths for words. Coleridge does not deny the historicity of the Bible per se, but believes that literal interpretation asks the wrong questions. Rather Biblical symbols, such as Jesus as both priest and sacrifice, while absurd to the literal mind, enrich the Bible's testimony when perceived by the Imagination.<br />This book is a great primer on Coleridge's thought. I seem to have been a kind of Romantic/Platonist since birth, so what Coleridge says resonates. Barth offers a clear summary of Coleridge's thought and current implications. If you have ever thought that mechanical \\"rational\\" thought misses meanings in life that you experience, Coleridge's philosophy might be for you. If not, buy it for historical study. The chapters are:<br />1. Theological Foundations of Coleridge on Imagination<br />2. Symbol as Sacrament<br />3. The Poetry of Reference<br />4. Poetry of Encounter: Wordsworth<br />5. Poetry of Encounter: Coleridge<br />6. The Scriptural Imagination<br />7. Symbol and Romanticism<br />8. Symbol and Religion: Past and FutureBible per se, but believes that literal interpretation asks the wrong questions. Rather Biblical symbols, such as Jesus as both priest and sacrifice, while absurd to the literal mind, enrich the Bible's testimony when perceived by the Imagination. <br />This book is a great primer on Coleridge's thought. I seem to have been a kind of Romantic/Platonist since birth, so what Coleridge says resonates. Barth offers a clear summary of Coleridge's thought and current implications. If you have ever thought that mechanical \\"rational\\" thought misses meanings in life that you experience, Coleridge's philosophy might be for you. If not, buy it for historical study. The chapters are:<br />1. Theological Foundations of Coleridge on Imagination<BR>2. Symbol as Sacrament<BR>3. The Poetry of Reference<BR>4. Poetry of Encounter: Wordsworth<BR>5. Poetry of Encounter: Coleridge<BR>6. The Scriptural Imagination<BR>7. Symbol and Romanticism<BR>8. Symbol and Religion: Past and Future	2002-04-26
US	51997044	R3KOVBBI83O1W5	0814610234	570501243	Springtime Of The Liturgy (Classics in Liturgy)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Go back to the early Christian worship...	The Springtime of The Liturgy, by Lucien Deiss, is essentially a collection of early Christian liturgical and worship texts. The work is important in that it gives us a glimpse of early Christian worship and prayer. The content is surprising at times (for instance the Didascalia suggests the bishop give up his place for a poor person if there is no room for the poor person in the congregation), enigmatic (Christians prayed facing East), and familiar (the basic structure of the ancient prayers are still around in today's common liturgies). I read this text with great excitement as I learned many new things about Eucharistic Theology, Confirmation, Baptism, and the offices of Bishop, presbyter, and deacon (and deaconesses). The texts speak for themselves, but Deiss adds helpful introductions and footnotes. The chapters are arranged as follows and contains excerpts from various ancient writings:<br />1. Sources of Jewish Prayer (Jewish underpinnings of our Liturgy)<br />2. Institution of the Eucharist (New Testament Eucharistic Texts)<br />3. Doxologies, Blessings, And Hymns of the New Testament<br />4. The Didache (A very early Church manual, 100 AD)<br />5. Clement of Rome (earliest Roman Eucharistic prayer, 95 AD)<br />6. Witness of St. Justin (Probably the clearest insight into early Christian worship, 150 AD)<br />7. Melito (His work gives us valuable insight into Jewish Christianity)<br />8. Clement of Alexandria (200 AD)<br />9. Apostolic Tradition of Hippolytus (a valuable, primitive church manual)<br />10. The Anaphora of Addai and Mari (perhaps the oldest Eucharistic prayer we have)<br />11. Didascalia of the Apostles (An early 3rd century Syrian Text)<br />12. Euchology of Serapion (collection of 30 prayers from the 4th century)<br />13.Strasbourg Papyrus (4th century \\"Liturgy of St. Mark\\")<br />14. Apostolic Constitutions (extensive liturgical book of the 4th century)<br />15. Euchology of Der Balyzeh (prayers from the 4th-5th centuries)<br />16. Klasmata (various fragments)<br />17. Catecheses of Cyril of Jerusalem (catechism information on the Eucharist, Baptism, etc, by a leader in Jerusalem's Church)<br />For students of liturgy, scholars, priests/ministers, and historians, this work is very important. The age it covers is truly the springtime of the liturgy, when Church worship was young and not fully developed, but beautiful and mysterious nonetheless.cheses of Cyril of Jerusalem (catechism information on the Eucharist, Baptism, etc, by a leader in Jerusalem's Church)<br />For students of liturgy, scholars, priests/ministers, and historians, this work is very important. The age it covers is truly the springtime of the liturgy, when Church worship was young and not fully developed, but beautiful and mysterious nonetheless.	2002-01-27
US	51997044	R2AHQJ91L3KKKO	1576730360	129268418	I Kissed Dating Goodbye: A New Attitude Toward Relationships and Romance	Books	2	221	347	N	N	Not the only way for Christians....	I saw the fruits of this book before I read it, and sadly they were mostly negative, despite the potential of the book's intended message. Its wild popularity is one reason why I no longer attend an evangelical church. For instance, new converts often own 3 copies of Harris' book and can spread the anti-dating gospel, but know nothing about the trinity, the Sacraments, or social justice matters. Men sit worried while their girlfriends are on a retreat because the leaders there are giving a \\"dating talk,\\" which will likely pressure their girlfriends to go into confusion about their otherwise healthy relationship. Men go to the movies with a girl; they pay, they buy dinner, and then call it every term under the sun but \\"date\\" to avoid committing the perceived ultimate sin.<br />Harris has identified the problem: secular dating can be wrong, silly, and dysfunctional. However, the alternatives Harris gives are dysfunctional too. He asserts that romantic love distracts teens from potentially good achievements. However, he fails to consider that a love relationship is itself a good thing! To create a dichotomy between fully serving Christ and dating is false. One can be a good Christian AND be in a meaningful  \\"romantic\\" relationship. We lose freedom in Christ when we restrict one-on-one interactions to only one sex!<br />While it may seem liberating to know that singleness is okay, his book strikes me as extreme. Josh takes biblical sources, which were interwoven into the culture of the time, and transports them to the present time, neglecting the original context. He uses many personal stories, but rarely quotes more than one or two lines of scripture. Using this method, one could say that \\"Biblical\\" love consists of having multiple wives, marrying cousins, or supplying virgins to keep old married kings warm at night (all of these examples occur in the Bible and are not condemned). From Song of Songs, one can infer that romantic love makes life much more meaningful, and therefore is an essential part of life.<br />Fortunately Harris admits his ideas are not for everyone. However, since his book is all the rage, most people ignore his caveat, and take the message \\"the best Christians don't date\\" with them. Just compare the few youth group studies on the Trinity or the Incarnation to the large number on dating! Perhaps teens do need a book that challenges them to step back from the dating scene and breathe a little easier if they are dateless. However, teenagers soon grow up, and realize that relationships often require trial and error to perfect, and can be meaningful in spiritual and physical ways outside of marriage (but don't take it too far!). If you want to date, then by all means, use your liberty and date. If you prefer \\"courting,\\" then court. Let's just place Harris' book in its own proper context: one man's interpretation of Christian ethics, but not for everyone.d therefore is an essential part of life.   <br />Fortunately Harris admits his ideas are not for everyone. However, since his book is all the rage, most people ignore his caveat, and take the message \\"the best Christians don't date\\" with them. Just compare the few youth group studies on the Trinity or the Incarnation to the large number on dating! Perhaps teens do need a book that challenges them to step back from the dating scene and breathe a little easier if they are dateless. However, teenagers soon grow up, and realize that relationships often require trial and error to perfect, and can be meaningful in spiritual and physical ways outside of marriage (but don't take it too far!). If you want to date, then by all means, use your liberty and date. If you prefer \\"courting,\\" then court. Let's just place Harris' book in its own proper context: one man's interpretation of Christian ethics, but not for everyone.	2001-11-17
US	51997044	R3OEGZ3LF7VTYM	0195209222	608292700	The Study of Liturgy	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A fine Compilation of Essays on The Liturgy	The Liturgy has endured for around 2000 years as the primary means of worship for most Christians. We even have an early Eucharist Liturgy in the Didache, the 2nd century early Church manual. Due to the importance of the liturgy, every scholar and church leader needs to engage its development. This book will help in this task (at least for the scholar or priest/pastor. It's a bit academic to keep the interest of the average person in the pew).<br />This collection is grouped into three main sections: Theology and Rite, Development of the Liturgy, and Pastoral Orientation. Within the Development of Liturgy section there are seven sub-sections: General Intro, Initiation, Eucharist, Ordination, the Divine Office, the Calendar, and the Setting of the Liturgy. There are 65 essays total including, `A Theology of Worship,' `(Initiation in the) the Modern Period,' `The Anglican Eucharist,' `The History of the Christian Year,' and the ever-elusive `Methodism (and the Eucharist).' The essays cover a wide range of topics, interpretations, and time periods. Both Catholic and Protestant thought are represented nicely, in order to provide a truly useful survey. Also included are numerous glossy black-and-white photos of churches, liturgical manuscripts, and old church manuals.<br />I highly recommend this book for the liturgical scholar, the early or later Church historian, priests, pastors, and the interested layperson. The scholars are all top-notch, and the book is illuminating and will answer most questions about the Liturgy. The only drawback is that this book is priced rather high, since it is considered a textbook.	2001-11-10
US	51997044	REFVLFW3WZ44W	0802841023	961350051	Reaching Out Without Dumbing Down: A Theology of Worship for This Urgent Time	Books	5	94	98	N	N	The best arguments for solid worship...	Marva Dawn asks how can the Church reach out, without losing its powerful message? Having attended many churches, I believe the Christian message is often \\"dumbed down\\" to fill pews. Dawn confronts our long-held views of worship. Worship, she says, is about God, not us. Christ, not entertainment value, is its meaning. Dawn reinforced my current beliefs, though I wish I had read her book earlier. I attended a \\"contemporary\\" church (she points out that it is more like an 80's church; if truly \\"contemporary\\" it would use trendier music), and found little depth. As I was discovering the riches of Christian tradition, my old church was proudly ignoring the past. Ultimately, she says we practice idolatry when we mimic empty secular culture, instead of transcending it.<br />Contrary to popular notions, \\"contemporary\\" churches don't appeal to all young persons. Dawn tells about a college student who left a \\"contemporary\\" service saying his intelligence was insulted. Many tire of being entertained, especially when their lives become rough and upbeat songs don't cut it, and the power-point presentations become indistinguishable from any other self-help seminar. Worship should subvert culture. Since the true gospel is shocking, it is not something that is able to be mass-marketed.<br />Dawn is not an old-timer. She believes that some traditionalists have let the liturgy become stale. The idolatry of \\"doing things as they always have been done\\" is no better than embracing secular society. She is not a future-fearing hidebound; she wants us to engage Christianity's rich history, but not just follow it blindly. She believes that liturgy, \\"the work of the people,\\" should indeed be the people's work, not just the pastor's. The meaning of the liturgy should be taught so we can understand its fullness: confession, thanks, prayer, etc. Memorized forms, e.g. creeds and prayers, are important, because they create a solid believing community, rather than a fragmented loose association.<br />Yes, some of her arguments are forced, but I do hope her ideas will challenge us to worship God in Word and Sacrament (instead of being entertained), and build community (instead of just numbers). I want to share a few excerpts. Dawn discusses Youth Sunday at her Church. Everyone expected the youth to design a contemporary service. However, the youth did a traditional service, and chose old, deep hymns! I too have found that most youth want something deep, but are usually forced to endure hype-heavy study materials (which to the teen are patronizing). I was a teen 4 years ago, and the belief that teens only want contemporary is a myth. Another point Dawn makes is that worship services rarely convert anyone (friends do this). Conversion services are based on a false premise. All in all, she wants us to abandon both stagnant traditionalism and the business-church, and worship God as a tight-knit community with character, grounded in our living tradition.<br />Yes, some of her arguments are forced, but I do hope her ideas will challenge us to worship God in Word and Sacrament (instead of being entertained), and build community (instead of just numbers). I want to share a few excerpts. Dawn discusses Youth Sunday at her Church. Everyone expected the youth to design a contemporary service. However, the youth did a traditional service, and chose old, deep hymns! I too have found that most youth want something deep, but are usually forced to endure hype-heavy study materials (which to the teen are patronizing). I was a teen 4 years ago, and the belief that teens only want contemporary is a myth. Another point Dawn makes is that worship services rarely convert anyone (friends do this). Conversion services are based on a false premise. All in all, she wants us to abandon both stagnant traditionalism and the business-church, and worship God as a tight-knit community with character, grounded in our living tradition.	2001-11-09
US	51997044	R11BRJU8HY6DBC	0898691206	577084816	Episcopal Hymnal 1982 Blue: Basic Singers Edition	Books	5	64	68	N	N	Standard Hymnal for the Episcopal Church	This is the standard hymnal that Episcopalians use. This is the blue cloth edition, which probably graces the back of the average Episcopal Church pew. Inside this hymnal is a broad cross-section of traditional hymns, newer praise songs, and everything in-between. Many of the hymns are firmly placed within Catholic tradition, and were written by great theologians and hymn writers from ages past: Clement of Alexandria, Thomas Aquinas, St. Bernard, Francis of Assisi, and Martin Luther. There are also newer, more evangelical tunes. The variety demonstrates the varying beliefs within the church, but when these Catholic and Evangelical elements are combined, we have a substantial, yet living faith.<br />Each hymn is grouped according to the church season, such as Advent and Easter. Also, there are hymns listed by various themes, such as hymns for our nation. In the front of the hymnal we have the chants and hymns that make up much of the liturgical experience: the Agnus Dei (lamb of God), the Kyrie, the Alleluia, The Lord's Prayer, the Gloria in excelsius, the Trisagion (Holy, Holy, Holy). The Hymnal 1982 also includes more hymns and anthems than these. Each musical liturgical element is offered in both Rite I (older music) and Rite II (a newer, updated sound).<br />Overall, I cherish this hymnal. The music is always theologically deep and the songs are all well chosen. The songs are so varied that there is certainly an appropriate song available for each part of the service, and for different services entirely. For instance, once would choose a different hymn for a thanksgiving service, than for a service following a tragedy. For those who just want an excellent collection of deep and historic hymns, this book will work. For Episcopalians, this book has shaped, and will continue to shape, our community's worship of God.	2001-10-28
US	51997044	RZSMWHCTES2Q9	1583330771	859595068	Prescription for Nutritional Healing (Prescription for Nutritional Healing: A Practical A-To-Z Reference to Drug-Free Remedies)	Books	5	48	50	N	N	*The* primary alternative medicine reference work...	\\"Prescription For Nutritional Healing\\" is perhaps the most condensed dictionary of practical alternative medicine available. The book contains so much information that it actually boggles the mind it can fit into one book. The book starts out with a large section entitled \\"Elements of Health.\\" In this section, the Balch team discusses vitamins, amino acids, enzymes, herbs, natural food supplements and their history and uses. There is a helpful herb chart that lists the herb, the effective parts of the herb, most of its phytonutrients, its uses, and comments such as toxicity. This section is a primer for those who want to know a little bit about the nutrients they will be taking.<br />The next section, which makes up the bulk of the book, is the \\"Disorders\\" section. It goes from Abscesses to Yeast Infections, covering a host of common and rare disorders in between. For each disorder, a treatment plan is outlined by name and dose, and nutrients are grouped according to how helpful they are in treating each disorder. For instance, with regard to the common cold, Zinc lozenges are listed as \\"essential,\\" while Olive Leaf extract is only listed as \\"helpful\\" (mind you, I disagree with their evaluation of olive leaf). Then they list effective herbs, followed by \\"recommendations.\\" These recommendations are often common sense suggestions and additional useful information written in an easy to understand manner. Finally, there is a \\"consideration\\" section for each disease. Here the authors report on recent research and possible other helpful ideas. Many charts and tables are dispersed throughout the disease section, such as poison control center numbers, STD symptoms, pregnancy tests, and nutrient robbing chemicals and foods.<br />The book ends with a brief description of therapies, a glossary of terms, and a list of supplement manufacturers. Overall this is an extremely useful book, which lists virtually every alternative therapy that has been found effective in clinical and controlled studies. Some of the recommendations are based on shaky evidence, and sometimes the authors confuse certain facts (for instance they suggest cancer patients eat almonds because of their laetrile content, but sweet almonds contain no laetrile; only bitter almonds do) but nonetheless, most of their claims are backed by competent studies.<br />The third edition came out very soon after the second edition. This demonstrates how fast research into alternative therapies is moving. Also, the third edition integrates a lot of mainstream medicine into its pages, making it extremely helpful and useful to those who might only dabble with alternative medicine on occasion. I bought the first edition in the early 1990s, and whenever I have a basic question or get sick, I usually go to this book first. I am not a doctor, and obviously nobody should forsake his or her doctor and simply follow the suggestions in this book! Kudos to the Balch team for setting the standard and keeping up with recent research!controlled studies. Some of the recommendations are based on shaky evidence, and sometimes the authors confuse certain facts (for instance they suggest cancer patients eat almonds because of their laetrile content, but sweet almonds contain no laetrile; only bitter almonds do) but nonetheless, most of their claims are backed by competent studies. <br />The third edition came out very soon after the second edition. This demonstrates how fast research into alternative therapies is moving. Also, the third edition integrates a lot of mainstream medicine into its pages, making it extremely helpful and useful to those who might only dabble with alternative medicine on occasion. I bought the first edition in the early 1990s, and whenever I have a basic question or get sick, I usually go to this book first. I am not a doctor, and obviously nobody should forsake his or her doctor and simply follow the suggestions in this book! Kudos to the Balch team for setting the standard and keeping up with recent research!	2001-10-27
US	51997044	R2W6BF0VU53G1	0686297954	401665553	Death of Cancer	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A scientific look into laetrile...	Harold Manner, PhD was a fairly orthodox biology professor at Loyola University in Chicago. He then decided to study the controversial chemical &quot;laetrile,&quot; more properly called amygdalin. He admits in this book that his late 1970s studies would either elevate or damn the anti-cancer substance. His research was some of the most blatant pro-laetrile research ever conducted, which &quot;dropped a bombshell&quot; on medical orthodoxy.<br />'Death of Cancer' chronicles Dr. Manner's research on laetrile, enzymes, vitamin C, and vitamin A against cancer. This combination caused complete cancer regression in 90% of the breast cancer ridden rats tested. Each chapter gives a scientific look at each key component to his research. There is a whole chapter devoted to enzymes, to laetrile, etc. Since many writers about laetrile are journalists, laypeople, ultra-conservatives, or non-academics, I was often left wanting to know more. Dr. Manner answers many questions about the chemical make-up of amygdalin (and other cyanide producing sugars), how amygdalin differs from &quot;laetrile,&quot; and various modes of action of vitamin A, etc. While the book might not *convince* a scientific skeptic, or even provide a 100% satisfying rationale behind amygdalin, it at least engages laetrile on an academic level.<br />Unfortunately laetrile has never been officially shown to be as effective as Dr. Manner's early research promised. However, the official &quot;test&quot; of laetrile continued despite objections from Manner, and questions of patient selection and amygdalin purity were raised. Perhaps Dr. Manner should have been directly involved. Either way, this book reflects one side in the struggle to determine whether laetrile really controls and prevents cancer. Today, some of Dr. Manner's assumptions about digestive enzymes are being confirmed by new human and animal research (by Dr. Nicholas Gonzalez and Wobe Mugos enzyme makers).<br />I highly suggest `Death of Cancer' for anyone wanting to study laetrile, its history, or its value. Come with an open, yet critical mind. While the book is long out of print, the original 1978 edition lacks an interview with Dr. Manner that the 1988 edition has. This 1988 interview, done shortly before Dr. Manner's death, is also helpful to understanding the laetrile issue.nyone wanting to study laetrile, its history, or its value. Come with an open, yet critical mind. While the book is long out of print, the original 1978 edition lacks an interview with Dr. Manner that the 1988 edition has. This 1988 interview, done shortly before Dr. Manner's death, is also helpful to understanding the laetrile issue.	2001-10-21
US	51997044	RCUHII6I9KTQX	1565632451	224795232	Blended Worship: Achieving Substance and Relevance in Worship	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Renewing the Church with substance!	In a post-modern church where skepticism, intellectual literalism, and novel emotional subjectivism masquerade as worship, we are often left wondering what is worship? Webber helps us through this task by explaining \\"renewal churches.\\" These churches are leaving behind the notion that worship must mimic secular entertainment and consist of power-point presentations and apologetics. These are churches that effectively blend the riches of Church tradition with modern worship styles. As the title suggests, Webber wants both substance and relevance. He also wants churches to abandon the attitude that doing \\"something brand new\\" each week is the mark of a true church.<br />Basing his ideas on Early Church history, Webber challenges churches to:<br />1. Explore traditions outside of their own.<br />2. View worship as the celebration of Christ's victory over evil<br />3. Abandon using Worship times for evangelism, and designate other times for it.<br />4. Put Christ at the center; not entertainment or rational argument.<br />5. Recover Early Christian worship: the entrance, Word, Eucharist, and dismissal. He advocates reading from the gospel, Old Testament, and even an epistle. This way Churches will hear all of God's word and not just a few lines followed by a long sermon.<br />6.  Utilize worship space and the arts as a means of worship (such as dance, icons, etc).<br />7. Utilize traditional music and music of other traditions (hymns, taize).<br />8. Rediscover the Church year and observe Advent, Epiphany, Lent, etc, and move away from the secular year. Webber has harsh words for churches on secular time, which celebrate Boy Scout Sunday and Mother's day faithfully but criticize the celebration of long-held Christian feasts and fasts.<br />9. Rediscover the value of symbol and sign (Romanticism).<br />10. Embrace the sacraments, particularly Baptism, Healing, and the Eucharist and to recognize Christ's presence in the worshipping community at the Eucharist.<br />11. Relate worship to all areas of Church ministry.<br />For many Vatican II Catholics and Anglicans his list will sound very familiar. I have attended churches that had no connection to Christianity's past, and have gone to others who by so strictly adhering to Christian tradition never made Church relevant. Webber offers a balance, which relies heavily upon the Liturgical Movement that happened in the Anglican Church and led to the current Book of Common Prayer. His ideas will generate *substance* in worship, and create a real community based on Christ. As actual worship, social justice, and the mystery of God become relegated to second place behind seat-filling services and cold apologetics, Webber's ideas are desperately needed.<br />I have a few objections. I agree with integrating historical Christian elements into one's own church. However, this might lead to a buffet type Christianity, where the easy elements are taken and the difficult ones left behind. Second, I agree with Webber that churches should have other services for proselytizing. However, the example he uses has its evangelism service on Sunday and the main service another night. For almost 2000 years Sunday has been the primary day to celebrate the resurrection. Perhaps Wednesday is a better day for evangelism. Overall Webber's suggestions, such as weekly Eucharist, mixing liturgy with spontaneity, integrating traditions, and basing worship on bringing Christ's life to the present, will renew churches into true communities with substance and relevance.eas of Church ministry.<br />For many Vatican II Catholics and Anglicans his list will sound very familiar. I have attended churches that had no connection to Christianity's past, and have gone to others who by so strictly adhering to Christian tradition never made Church relevant. Webber offers a balance, which relies heavily upon the Liturgical Movement that happened in the Anglican Church and led to the current Book of Common Prayer. His ideas will generate *substance* in worship, and create a real community based on Christ. As actual worship, social justice, and the mystery of God become relegated to second place behind seat-filling services and cold apologetics, Webber's ideas are desperately needed. <br />I have a few objections. I agree with integrating historical Christian elements into one's own church. However, this might lead to a buffet type Christianity, where the easy elements are taken and the difficult ones left behind. Second, I agree with Webber that churches should have other services for proselytizing. However, the example he uses has its evangelism service on Sunday and the main service another night. For almost 2000 years Sunday has been the primary day to celebrate the resurrection. Perhaps Wednesday is a better day for evangelism. Overall Webber's suggestions, such as weekly Eucharist, mixing liturgy with spontaneity, integrating traditions, and basing worship on bringing Christ's life to the present, will renew churches into true communities with substance and relevance.	2001-10-18
US	51997044	R1QBE8BOV8CB17	019211655X	579169242	The Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church	Books	5	64	65	N	N	In essence this is all you need for church history...	Okay, my title is a bit oversimplified. But the truth is this: If you wish to study Church history and need to find the basic salient facts quickly, there is no better place to look than the Oxford Dictionary. The entries are extremely concise, but sources and other references are provided for possible future research. While the Dictionary is certainly dominated by Catholic, Anglican, and Orthodox scholars (because the church history field is dominated by these denominations), the third edition is more ecumenical than past editions. I attend a Methodist seminary and the professors highly suggested that if we buy any book, we buy this one.<br />Whenever I have a church question I come to this dictionary. As a seminary student I have used the dictionary in every class, even Bible classes (many Biblical books and theological terms have entries). When professors' lectures become muddled, the textbooks do not explain the material clearly, or a parishioner has a tricky question about the Church, the Oxford Dictionary will come through. Virtually every topic in early and later Church history, and Christian thought has an entry. While the price might be a bit steep, for seminarians, scholars, pastors/priests, and church history buffs, this is the essential one-volume set. Also, at the very end is a convenient list of popes and anti-popes.	2001-10-04
US	51997044	R2XICHKC974H8V	0895773929	93219359	After Jesus: The Triumph of Christianity	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Church History for the average person in the street...	I think this book presents the earliest periods of Church history, from Jesus Christ to 600 AD, in a very readable and entertaining manner. The book will suit everybody, but particularly the average reader, who might lack formal theological training. By the average person, I mean someone whose knowledge of Church history might only extend back to when his or her pastor was born, but who has a sense of history and wants to know about the origins of his or her faith.<br />The book has many charts, pictures, and anecdotal stories, thus making it suited for those who do not have the time, or the will, to read volumes on Church History (since many Church History books are densely written for the scholar). The charts are particularly useful, such as the ones detailing the four views of Christ during the 4th century Trinitarian controversies, and the canon chart, showing which early writers accepted which books as holy. There is a nice index, and a glossary of important terms for easy access. If there was ever a Church History coffee table book, this is it!<br />I am saddened that this is now out of print. Whenever a friend asks me why I study church history in graduate school, and what exactly it is, I usually let them borrow this book. It is scholarly (Jaroslav Pelikan, noted Church Historian, contributed to it), as well as readable. I hope someday it is back in print, so that non-scholars and scholars alike can benefit from it! When I teach a Church History class in the future I would like to use this book as kind of a primer, to get the students interested and prepared to dig deeper.	2001-10-04
US	51997044	R311YDA83JICP0	0199102074	107780535	Greek-English Lexicon (Greek and English Edition)	Books	5	98	109	N	N	Abridged Edition is an Excellent Lexicon	This review is for the Abridged Liddell-Scott Lexicon...<br />I own the Intermediate sized Liddell as well, and I must say I actually prefer the smaller one. When I took a class where we read &quot;The Apology of Socrates&quot; by Plato, my professor recommended avoiding the Intermediate edition. At first I thought perhaps he was wrong, and I used it to translate some passages. After spending a lot of time sorting through it, I found that I agreed with him. The Intermediate Liddell does have locations of word use in original sources, and has slightly more vocabulary, but for the beginning and intermediate Greek reader, the Abridged Liddell is preferable. Navigating through the abridged edition is far easier and it often assumes a lesser knowledge of Greek, thus it includes some conjugated forms, which then point you to the correct verb. So as you can see, the abridged edition should suit the needs of most classical Greek students. Also, the editors took care to make sure that virtually every New Testament word is included.<br />Are there drawbacks to the Liddell-Scott? The Victorian English often gets frustrating. We rarely use words like hither and thither anymore. Also, when more morally explicit Greek words are defined, their definition is in Latin. Also, the original printing abnormalities, such as certain parts of letters being cut off from words, remain.<br />Learning Greek is a rewarding, but daunting task. The task is often made more difficult by grammars and lexicons that assume the reader knows more than he or she does. The abridged Liddell is perfect for the average student. When you want to dive in deeper, learn word origins, search sources, or just want to say you own the most complete Lexicon out there, you should buy the full size Liddell-Scott. Until then, the abridged edition works!	2001-09-26
US	51997044	R2M02UGTG3RUJM	0895298171	503418411	The Complete Book of Enzyme Therapy: A Complete and Up-to-Date Reference to Effective Remedies	Books	5	106	107	N	N	Excellent Encyclopedia of Enzymes!	Dr. Cichoke does a great job of giving the basics of enzyme therapy, that is the therapeutic value of increasing the enzyme content of your diet. The book covers enzymes in natural foods, such as amylases (starch digesters) in beet juice, as well as powerful enteric-coated enzyme pills, such as Wobe Mugos. The book is divided into multiple sections. The first 88 pages are an introductory course in enzyme types (such as amylase, lipase, pancreatin, papain, etc), the function of enzymes, as well as an encyclopedia of \\"enzyme helpers\\" such as vitamins, etc, and their individual benefits. In fact, the information is extremely useful even for those not interested in enzyme therapy, particularly the tables listing various phytochemicals and their uses.<br />The rest of the book is grouped by disorder, such as cancer or MS, with enzyme prescriptions for each disease. The guide also documents research on herbs, vitamins, and even more mainstream medicines. The end of the book has popular enzyme formulas, addresses of public information groups, and various enzyme therapies. If you have read \\"Prescription for Nutritional Healing\\" you will find the format of this book to be almost identical to that. The disease section is comprehensive, although often I feel as if Cichoke is stretching it a bit on some diseases, since research on enzymes and their relation to most diseases is just not available yet.<br />Overall this book is fascinating and in some ways it should be used as the guide for those discovering enzymes and their value in medicine and nutrition. The only complaint I have is that at times the book does not get technical enough. It just did not answer many of my questions, which I would assume are common (such as, \\"how much Pancreatin survives the stomach environment?\\" Or, \\"will cellulase enzymes increase the calorie content of cellulose rich meals?\\"). Of course, enzyme therapy is, despite starting at the turn of the century, in its infancy, and many of these answers might not even exist yet. Enzymes and their uses fascinate me, and if you are intrigued as well, this book will prove more than satisfactory.might not even exist yet. Enzymes and their uses fascinate me, and if you are intrigued as well, this book will prove more than satisfactory.	2001-07-16
US	51997044	RF6DMEXFSOZ7L	0801022258	737981458	The Apostolic Fathers: Greek Texts and English Translations	Books	5	106	109	N	N	The best edition of the Apostolic Fathers...	Michael Holmes has updated the brilliant J.B. Lightfoot/J.R. Harmer translation of the Apostolic Fathers for the 21st century scholar and interested reader. The works which are included are: 1 Clement, II Clement (correctly labeled here as \\"An Ancient Christian Sermon\\"), the Letters of Ignatius (the seven genuine letters in the so-called middle recension), the Shepherd of Hermas, the Letter of Polycarp, the Martyrdom of Polycarp, the Didache, The Epistle to Diognetus, The Epistle of Barnabas, and the numerous fragments of Papias. The critical Greek text is of course also included (with textual variants) in this edition, and so is the Latin when the text only survives as such.<br />For each book there are helpful footnotes, textual variants, introductory material, and a bibliography. There is a subject/author index, a scripture and non-canonical literature quotation section, and a few maps for those who wish to know, for instance, where exactly Ignatius' letter to the Trallians would have been read. Michael Holmes has also updated the translation and Greek texts based on recent findings and textual discoveries.<br />Overall, \\"The Apostolic Fathers\\" is a fine resource for the Patristic scholar. However the works are also useful for the non-scholar who wants to read about the infant, developing, and persecuted Church. As the title suggests, these writers lived close to the Apostolic Age; some (Clement, Ignatius, and Polycarp) even probably knew an apostle or two. Their writings, theology, and ethics are important clues into developing Christian Orthodoxy. The affordable one-volume price, the modern translation, and updated Greek text render this book superior to the other translations of the Apostolic Fathers available, including Staniforth's, Lake's, and volume one of the Ante-Nicene Fathers (however the other editions certainly still have great value; the ANF set has the longer recension of Ignatius' letters, which the Holmes edition lacks). If you wish to begin a study of Christianity and Christian history, after reading the New Testament, start with these texts.study of Christianity and Christian history, after reading the New Testament, start with these texts.	2001-02-19
US	51997044	R1HD0EYYRLFN46	0809102501	637199545	10. St. Athanasius: The Life of St. Antony (Ancient Christian Writers)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A life that will never be forgotten...	I was captivated when I first read the Life of St. Antony, most likely written by the staunchly Orthodox church father Athanasius (I say 'probably' because some scholars doubt that Athanasius wrote it, however I noticed many similarities between 'Life of Antony' and 'On the Incarnation'). The book reads like a novel at times, telling of Antony's battles with demons, and his traveling farther into the desert to avoid publicity and temptation. There is also an interesting segment when Antony lives by a mountain and a cool stream, and animals are eating his small amount of grain. He gently grabs the animals and asks them why they bother him when he does not bother them? They returned no more after that. We are also told of Antony's journey into Alexandria after persecutions broke out there. Antony himself desperately wanted to be martyred, but instead he offered encouragement and consolation to those who were going to be killed. One individual whose martyrdom is mentioned is Peter, the Bishop of Alexandria at that time. Near the end of the book, Antony returns again to Alexandria, this time to dispel rumors that he is an Arian (a heretical group of the early 4th century which denied the full divinity of the Son). Athanasius makes it clear that Antony was a Nicaean.<br />The rest of the work could be described as a kind of a monastic manual, with particular emphasis on fighting demons. Athanasius records Antony's struggles, and tells his readers how to recognize and fight the devil. Throughout the story, the power of the sign of the cross is stressed, and we are urged to sign our houses and ourselves in order to repel evil. Near the very end, Antony debates various Greek philosophers regarding the Cross and the Incarnation. Antony, despite being uneducated, holds his own with the men, and they leave having learned something.<br />Antony is the vehicle for many miracles, but those who sought help are always told to give the glory to God, because Antony himself really did nothing. Antony is the picture of Biblical humility and self-denial. The life of Antony is a powerful example to all Christians. My church history professor said that if you only have time to read one book from the Patristic period, `Life of Antony' should be that book. I couldn't agree more: the Life of Antony is a spiritual classic.nothing. Antony is the picture of Biblical humility and self-denial. The life of Antony is a powerful example to all Christians. My church history professor said that if you only have time to read one book from the Patristic period, `Life of Antony' should be that book. I couldn't agree more: the Life of Antony is a spiritual classic.	2001-02-04
US	51997044	RW2AXHH3Y0C8F	0819213276	930476985	Catholic Religion	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A fine book on catholicism within the Anglican Church	Staley gives us a fine guide to being both Anglican and Catholic, that is a part of the worldwide, historic and universal Church (not necessarily in the Roman Church). The book is essentially a concise catechism for the Anglican faithful. In his book he discusses many topics of value. For instance the first 70 pages are an introduction to the history of the faith. In these pages Staley demonstrates the importance of the church's orders: Bishop, Deacon, and Priest. He also stresses the essentiality of Apostolic Succession (through the Episcopate), as a guarantee against heresy and false teaching. He attempts to emphasize the genuine character of Anglican orders, by giving the English Church's history before being under Rome, while under Rome, and after breaking from Rome under Henry VIII. In these pages he explains the causes of Reformation, and the goals of Reformation in England, which overall were not meant to replace the Catholic faith, but simply bring it to a better state. In these chapters an Anglican slant is given to the faith, which I find refreshing. At times Staley seems a bit anti-Roman Catholic, but he was also living before Vatican II.<br />The last 120 pages deal with the faith of the Church in doctrine and practice. He has sections on the three creeds, the Trinity, the Incarnation (which Staley describes as, \\"the greatest honor and blessing our race has ever received\\"), and other important topics. Most of his ideas are firmly rooted in the Church Councils and Church Tradition. He discusses the Catholic view of the seven sacraments, including the Eucharist. Regarding the Eucharist, he takes a decidedly Anglican position when he reiterates the firm Anglican belief in the Real Presence, \\"without presuming to define the manner of [how the body and blood are present]\\". He also emphasizes the free-will of humankind and the power of God, sounding more like the Church fathers than the reformers. However, that is the goal of Staley's book: to celebrate the Anglican Church's place in the Historic Church. Staley also gives excellent information on the Creation. He is sympathetic to evolution as a possibility, so long as it is God guided.<br />He also discusses Christian duty, prayer, and the Bible including the deutero-canon. Staley says, \\"No Bible is complete which does not contain the apocrypha.\\" Overall, Staley gives a good Anglo-Catholic view of most every major doctrine and practice.<br />In general, Staley's book assumes the Anglican Church is Historic and Catholic, which may be a surprise to Evangelicals within the church. However, the Church, since the mid-1800s when the \\"Oxford Movement\\" sprang up, has as a whole moved toward Catholicism in doctrine and praxis, although not as far as Anglo-Catholics had anticipated. Overall, I think this is an excellent book for anyone searching for catholicism in the Anglican Church. Of note, this book was originally written in 1893, so some issues are outdated. It was revised and condensed in 1983, and the new parts are useful as well.glican Church's place in the Historic Church. Staley also gives excellent information on the Creation. He is sympathetic to evolution as a possibility, so long as it is God guided.<br />He also discusses Christian duty, prayer, and the Bible including the deutero-canon. Staley says, \\"No Bible is complete which does not contain the apocrypha.\\" Overall, Staley gives a good Anglo-Catholic view of most every major doctrine and practice.  <br />In general, Staley's book assumes the Anglican Church is Historic and Catholic, which may be a surprise to Evangelicals within the church. However, the Church, since the mid-1800s when the \\"Oxford Movement\\" sprang up, has as a whole moved toward Catholicism in doctrine and praxis, although not as far as Anglo-Catholics had anticipated. Overall, I think this is an excellent book for anyone searching for catholicism in the Anglican Church. Of note, this book was originally written in 1893, so some issues are outdated. It was revised and condensed in 1983, and the new parts are useful as well.	2001-01-03
US	51997044	R1OPS0UYEMSRDG	0060608811	239091352	New Testament Background: Selected Documents: Revised and Expanded Edition	Books	5	62	63	N	N	A necessary text for finding the New Testament Background	Many have the idea in their minds that Christianity simply appeared in a vacuum, or that Christianity began when one's church was built. However, Jesus was born into a much different world than ours today. We must also remember that the New Testament writers and Church fathers were writing under different conditions as well, and these influences are seen in their writings.<br />Barrett's book should give the reader a fine background into the period of the New Testament. I personally think every New Testament class should require this text, if anything as a side textbook to be consulted when necessary. Barrett saves us the work of finding the appropriate background writings on our own. He has collected them and given us pertinent excerpts.<br />He gives writings from the:<br />Roman Empire- Here he has writings from Roman Statesmen and Emperors, showing policies towards the Jews, etc.<br />Papyri- He translates various everyday letters, wills, and deeds in Koine Greek, perhaps showing us what the average Christian or Jew may have experienced in everyday life.<br />Inscriptions- here he translates inscriptions on synagogues, tombs, and other buildings.<br />Philosophers and Poets- Excerpts from Plato, Epicurus, the Stoics, and many others show us the prevailing pagan philosophies of the day.<br />Gnosticism and Gnosis- this section has writings discovered at Nag-Hammadi and from other Gnostic groups lacking Christian influence. He has divided Gnosticism (the full blown heresy of the 2nd century) and Gnosis (the developing religion perhaps addressed in Colossians) into 2 groups for clarity.<br />He also has sections on the Mystery Religions, Jewish History (including readings from the apocrypha), Rabbinic Literature, Qumran Texts, Philo, Josephus, the Septuagint, the Targums, and finally from Jewish apocalyptic literature.<br />As can be seen, Barrett gives a fine survey of the time period using the writings of important Jews and Gentiles. Chronologically, the writings are all from the New Testament and the Ante-Nicene time periods in the Church. Overall, this is an essential text, which should introduce the student to the influences upon Christian Thought and writings, as well as to the world Jesus was born into and in which generations of Christians lived.s are all from the New Testament and the Ante-Nicene time periods in the Church. Overall, this is an essential text, which should introduce the student to the influences upon Christian Thought and writings, as well as to the world Jesus was born into and in which generations of Christians lived.	2001-01-03
US	51997044	R2KOIYMF1UE2FP	0060633158	101171164	The Story of Christianity, Volume 1: The Early Church to the Dawn of the Reformation (Story of Christianity)	Books	5	140	145	N	N	A fine survey of Church History	Gonzalez's book here is perhaps the best survey of church history available. His book is concise and scholarly. He rarely goes off on unnecessary tangents, and he always presents the material clearly. This is why I would recommend this book for anybody who wants a non-threatening and enjoyable introduction to church history. He covers many important figures, such as Ignatius of Antioch, John Chrysostom, and Athanasius. All of the major players are there. He also gives his readers insights into important church events, such as the council of Nicaea. The book is filled with charts and timelines of popes, emperors, etc. This book was very helpful in a church history class I took recently. It was not the main textbook, but it helped me put the theology I was learning into historical context.<br />Gonzalez, as another reviewer mentioned, is Protestant. From what I have read he does not have an anti-Catholic bias, but he does cover the materials in a more Protestant way. One example is his lack of coverage of Pseudo-Dionysus. However, this book is only an introduction, and does not claim to be the end all guide to every figure in church history.<br />Overall, Gonzalez has written a fine work that is now a standard textbook in many Catholic and Protestant Seminaries and Universities. I particularly enjoyed his chapter on &quot;Eastern Christianity.&quot; You don't have to be a scholar to get into church history. I think Gonzalez will get you interested if you read his book.	2000-11-19
US	51997044	R2366XE1ZOK53R	0827602529	185262352	Tanakh: The Holy Scriptures - The New JPS Translation According to the Traditional Hebrew Text	Books	5	254	271	N	N	A new experience...	I bought the Tanakh solely because it was the version required for an Old Testament class at a Christian Seminary I attend. I didn't know what to expect initially, because I had never heard of it before.<br />I must say I really enjoy the translation. It is the first time since the translation of the LXX that a large group of Jewish scholars have come together to translate the Jewish sacred texts. It was nice to read a Bible that was free of Christian influence, even though I am a Christian in faith. The translation is based on the traditional Masoretic text, but it uses the LXX and the Dead Sea scrolls when the Masoretic text is obscure. There are also scriptural readings for various feasts and holy days.<br />Overall, I find the translation readable and scholarly. As a Christian, I always have more &quot;Christianized&quot; versions around too, such as the RSV, REB, and NRSV, but it is important to have other scholarly translational perspectives as well. I do wish there would have been maps and some commentary included in the hardcover...perhaps in a future edition.<br />As a side note, the paperback version has a few typos in the text that the hardback lacks.	2000-10-25
US	51997044	R2WCESO8WMCPLA	0801021413	228744127	A Concordance to the Septuagint: And the Other Greek Versions of the Old Testament (Including the Apocryphal Books) (Greek and English Edition)	Books	5	70	70	N	N	A thick, but helpful tool	This is a thick book, both physically in its size, and in the material it contains. It lists every Greek word in the Septuagint (canonical and apocryphal), followed by the Hebrew words corresponding to the Greek ones, and then every book and verse the word appears in, and the context of each verse! Appendix One has all the Greek proper names. Appendix two gives a complete concordance of the Greek Ecclesiasticus when compared to the Hebrew fragments. Appendix three gives a concordance of the Hexapleric fragments that scholars possess. Appendix four is a newer part (from 1998), and lists Hebrew and Aramaic words and their LXX equivalent. As can be seen, this is one large book (1860 pages). This edition also contains a good introduction, which was added in 1998. The original edition came out in the late 1800s/early 1900s.<br />The only drawback would be that the English translation of each Greek word is not given. So in other words, to fully appreciate this you would need to know Greek, or else have a good Lexicon handy. Since most folks using this would probably be scholars, or know Greek, this shouldn't be a problem. Overall, a fine and massive work!	2000-10-22
US	51997044	R35GY0LVNZN2I8	0913573442	906317235	The Septuagint with Apocrypha: Greek and English	Books	5	209	217	N	N	A fine resource for students of Greek!	This is a great Greek resource for scholars and laypeople alike! Basically this is the whole Septuagint (the Greek Old Testament), in both Greek and English. There are also helpful textual and translational footnotes included when Brenton felt they were necessary. Also represented are the often ignored Apocryphal books, including 1st-4th Maccabees. The book of 2nd Esdras is not included because at the time this was published (and now as well I believe) there was no Greek copy available.<br />The only drawback would be that this edition was originally published in 1851. Since then new and better manuscripts have been discovered, and we have better knowledge of certain Greek words now as well. But for the price, and all things considered, anyone wishing to own the Old Testament text most of the early Christians used- in both Greek and English- should definitely check this out.	2000-10-22
US	51997044	RTQ097DK6U7JN	0195285069	913572468	The 1928 Book of Common Prayer	Books	5	89	96	N	N	This is the 1928 edition	For all who are interested, this is a copy of the 1928 Episcopal prayer  book. While I don't want to become a part of the prayer book debate here,  many prefer it to the 1979 edition. The 1928 edition's language is more  traditional. The attitude is more penitential, and I believe some church  holidays are given more pages (though the list of holidays only has the  major feasts).<br />This copy is a nice, burgundy, hardcover edition of the  1928 edition by Oxford University Press. There are presentation,  confirmation, and baptism pages in the front of the Bible, and 2 string  bookmarks. The text is genuine 1928 edition Book of Common Prayer. I have  checked, and this is probably the most affordable 1928 edition on the  market today.	2000-09-19
US	51997044	R2J9L923288UJW	0801021448	159712599	Modern Theological German: A Reader and Dictionary (Sociology of Education)	Books	5	64	64	N	N	Useful, but get a grammar too	I need theological German for my future religious education, and I thought  I would get a good start by buying this book. Included in the book is a  very useful reader that starts off with simple Biblical texts and works up  to more difficult German writers like Karl Barth. To the left of each page  of German there are English helps. However, I needed more help than that  could give me, so I had to search the web for a good German grammar. Also  there are questions at the end of each section to help the reader learn the  finer points of the translation. This is very helpful.<br />The second part is  a complete dictionary of common German words that appear in Theological  writings. There is also a small table of German irregular verbs at the  end.<br />My suggestion is this. This will be helpful to those who know some  basic German already, or those who have access to a basic German grammar  (Ziefle suggests some good grammars). I still recommend the book though. I  have learned quite a bit already. A concentrated book like this will also  save you the trouble of learning German in a non-Theological framework, and  then finding out you learned all the wrong vocabulary.	2000-09-08
US	51997044	R1P45NLZEPVPQK	0195283481	285263373	The New Oxford Annotated Bible with the Apocrypha, Revised Standard Version	Books	5	167	177	N	N	Overall a great Bible package!	The New Oxford Annotated Bible, RSV, with Apocrypha is an amazing work. It  uses the accurate RSV translation, and includes the study notes of great  scholars like Bruce Metzger and Herbert May. I found the essays at the end  of the Bible helpful as well, especially in an Old Testament class. The RSV  (and NRSV) also offers the entire apocrypha/deuterocanon accepted by major  Christian churches, which will enhance study.<br />This New Oxford Bible is  slightly different than the NRSV version. Many of the notes are identical  to those included in the NRSV version, or else they are very similar. The  text itself is of course different. The RSV contains archaic language in  the Psalms, and has no inclusive language, among other differences. The  NRSV however, makes more use of the better texts, such as the Dead Sea  Scrolls.<br />Overall I would say this Bible is written from more of a  Christian faith perspective than the NRSV counterpart. One example I  noticed is in the Introduction to Isaiah in the RSV, where it mentions  Jesus as the incarnate suffering servant. This is omitted in the NRSV,  probably in a desire to make it more ecumenical among Non-Christian  religions.<br />Overall I think this is a great Bible to own. The scholarship  is excellent and embraces Biblical Criticism, while coming from a  perspective of faith. The translation is beautiful and readable. I am proud  to include this is my collection of Bibles for both personal and academic  use.	2000-09-08
US	51997044	RWGQ50F75M8RX	0802819591	22620732	Biblical Inspiration	Books	5	22	22	N	N	The best treatment of Biblical Inspiration	As the title suggests, this book is about the inspiration of the Bible. I. Howard Marshall, an evangelical Christian scholar, looks into this important Christian belief.  In the opening pages, Marshall examines  various views on the inspiration of the Bible, from total and complete  inerrancy, to the belief that the Bible is inspired in the same way a good  piece of literature is. While it is hard to figure out what view Marshall  himself takes because he is so fair in his treatment of all views, I am  sure that he views the Bible as the infallible word of God. This does not  mean he thinks the Bible is inerrant however. He means that God divinely  preserved all that he wanted us to know, and with the precision he wanted  us to know it. So there are indeed some areas in the Bible that are  unclear, and perhaps that is okay. Marshall is not a big fan of the divine  dictator view that God simply told the writers what to write. Rather he  believes that there was a concursive method. This means that the writers  said what God wanted them to say, but by means of oral and literary  traditions, and  within the authors' own styles, rather than as a result of  some type of divine trance.<br /> Marshall asks many questions, such as \\"What  Does the Bible say about its own inspiration?\\" and \\"How are we to interpret  the Bible?\\" The book is made up of 125 pages of answers in plain English.  Marshall's view may not harmonize with many people's view that the Bible is  totally inerrant, and that there can be no error, whether historical or  grammatical.  However, I must say I found his treatment of the issue to be  extremely relevant after I took a secular Bible course which emphasized the  inconsistencies in the Bible. In a way Marshall helped me keep the faith  after taking such a class. Don't think that Marshall obscures the facts. He  does not twist anything to keep his theory from falling.<br />I must say I  enjoy his writing style tremendously. I rarely became uninterested when  reading this book. I wanted to find out what was on the next page, mainly  because his answers were so important to me spiritually at the time. I  would recommend this book for those who want a well thought out, and  even-handed (Marshall presents the strengths and weaknesses of all popular  theories of inspiration) treatment of the issue of Biblical Inspiration.  Anybody can benefit from reading this book, even if he or she does not  reach the same conclusions of the author.hen  reading this book. I wanted to find out what was on the next page, mainly  because his answers were so important to me spiritually at the time. I  would recommend this book for those who want a well thought out, and  even-handed (Marshall presents the strengths and weaknesses of all popular  theories of inspiration) treatment of the issue of Biblical Inspiration.  Anybody can benefit from reading this book, even if he or she does not  reach the same conclusions of the author.	2000-07-04
US	51997044	R1N7VAOTYMSKSH	1881025063	404537898	Cancer Therapy: The Independent Consumer's Guide to Non-Toxic Treatment & Prevention	Books	5	65	65	N	N	A Practical Handbook to Cancer Therapy	Dr. Moss has put together an excellent resource for people looking into non-toxic cancer treatments. Ralph was thrust into the alternative medicine scene when he brought positive laetrile studies to the public's attention  in the1970s when people were saying there was no evidence of laetrile's  efficacy. Since then he has been an important voice of reason in the fight  for alternatives.<br />This book is a well-researched sourcebook for new and  innovative cancer treatments. The book is divided into various sections.  The first is \\"Vitamins,\\" where Moss provides research on vitamins, such as  Vitamin D, on cancer research. Moss details studies that have been  conducted with vitamins. Other sections include, \\"Minerals\\" such as  Calcium, \\"Herbs\\" such as Aloe, \\"Diets\\" such as Gerson, and \\"Less Toxic  Resources\\" such as Amygdalin and Hydrazine Sulfate. In total he lists over  100 therapies. At the end of each section there are resources for each  therapy. For instance, he gives addresses of clinics using the  methods.<br />Parts of this book are also devoted to cancer prevention  studies.  He also will tell when studies show that a substance can, for  instance,  enhance chemotherapy's effectiveness, or relieve side effects of  radiation. This is helpful for people who are not willing to rely totally  on alternatives, but who want some of their benefits.<br />This book is  useful to anyone researching cancer treatments, cancer preventions, or else  just wanting the straight facts on alternative therapies. No major orthodox  cancer group approves of most of the therapies Moss discusses. Moss is not  a Medical Doctor, but a researcher, so his presentation should not be taken  directly as a prescription or a do-it-yourself treatment. However, for a  new angle on cancer, and for information on effective therapies, this book  is one of the best available.	2000-07-04
US	51997044	R3GQSGBS63YW8J	091298600X	621435008	Little Cyanide Cookbook: Delicious Recipes Rich in Vitamin B17	Books	5	178	182	N	N	What a Title!	When my friends see this book on my bookshelf they often look puzzled. Perhaps they think twice about letting me cook for them! After all with a title like \\"Little Cyanide Cookbook,\\" the book is bound to raise some  eyebrows.<br />In reality this is a collection of recipes rich in cyanide  containing foods, specifically amygdalin, which the author believes should  be called `Vitamin B17.' This chemical is also known as `laetrile' which is  the biggest name (some would say biggest shame) in alternative cancer  therapies. Some scientists hold the theory that eating enough of these  cyanide-containing sugars (which incidentally are anti-oxidants) will  prevent cancer. Indeed many societies that are free from cancer (such as  the Hunzas) consume quite a bit of these sugars. I have investigated the  whole laetrile controversy for many years, which is why I own the book.<br />I can't say that I completely swallow all of the theory, but if you do,  or are just investigating cyanide-containing chemicals as a cancer  preventative, this book should be of use.  The only drawback is that many  of our favorite foods do not contain these \\"cyanogenic glycosides,\\" so the  recipes may be hard to put together. Also, many of the recipes call for  ground-up apricot seeds, which are semi-legal and bitter tasting. For those  wondering, there is no real danger of cyanide poisoning from the recipes  that De Spain promotes. Some of the foods that contain cyanide which we eat  everyday in large amounts are: lentils, millet, blackberries, raspberries,  buckwheat, lima beans, and peas.	2000-06-20
US	51997044	RJMTS2D39WXZX	0912986174	40034993	Alive and Well: One Doctor's Experience With Nutrition in the Treatment of Cancer Patients	Books	5	85	86	N	N	He may be onto something...	After frequenting alternative medicine newsgroups, which are full of \\"cancer cure\\" vendors, it's nice to see a book that is written with a large degree of humility. Dr. Binzel has, for many years, used the controversial  chemical \\"laetrile\\" to treat cancer. The first 96 pages are stories of his  legal struggles and court appearances (including a few major newsworthy  cases in which he was called to witness to the efficacy of laetrile). In  some ways his run-ins with the state read like a good novel. While a very  conservative company publishes the book, I (a moderate) did not find any  grand conspiracy theories.<br />The last 40 pages are devoted to his  controversial approach (diet, laetrile, enzymes, Vitamin A, etc) and his  results using his therapy. He even includes photos of some of his success  cases. The results are clinical data and are thus not considered as  scientifically valid as a randomized test. However, his statistics suggest  that he is onto something. For instance, his five year survival rates for  metastasized cancers (cancers that have spread throughout the body) are  impressive at 60%. His results for primary tumors are higher at an 80% 5  year survival rate. However it is important to remember that his data have  not been published scientifically and thus have not been peer-reviewed.  However his statistics do show that the laetrile-metabolic approach should  not be characterized as \\"completely worthless.\\" I would say to read this  with an open, yet critical mind (as all non-fiction should be read).  Anybody who has read the popular 70s book, \\"Laetrile Case Histories,\\" will  see an immediate similarity between that book and, \\"Alive and Well.\\" In  some ways this is the \\"Laetrile Case Histories\\" for the new millenium.	2000-06-20
US	51997044	R1OEEUK3MCA0Y6	0890874816	834093229	Staying Healthy with Nutrition: The Complete Guide to Diet and Nutritional Medicine	Books	5	134	134	N	N	Comprehensive and Helpful!	Dr. Haas has put together one of the most complete nutrition books that can be enjoyed by the average reader. From what I have read, he makes no outrageous claims, though he does believe nutrition can offer health  benefits (which would distinguish this book from a standard nutrition  textbook). While the price may seem a little steep, there are 1140 pages  that contain a wealth of information. The first 353 pages list virtually  every popular nutrient (vitamins, minerals, fats, etc) and food category  (such as beans, citrus fruits, etc). He even gives relevant information on  the pseudo-vitamins such as Pangamic Acid (B15), amygdalin (B17), and  Vitamin U. He also lists many of the popular diets and their benefits and  drawbacks.<br />He also includes a very helpful section on \\"the Environmental  Aspects of Nutrition.\\" Possible pollutants and common food additives are  discussed.  He lists \\"88 Survival Suggestions.\\"<br />Over 100 pages are  dedicated to a Seasonal Cookbook. The foods are healthy, but possibly  difficult for the average reader to obtain.  It is possible with a little  work however. There is a section on \\"Nutritional Application,\\" which has  special diets and suggestions for people with cancer, heart disease, yeast  syndrome, and other disorders. He also includes suggestions for executives,  adults, children, alcoholics, and adolescents. Overall the Nutritional  Application section is very complete.<br />Finally he includes around 80 pages  of health questionnaires that test health knowledge and actually intend to  estimate one's health level. I use this whenever I have general or specific  health questions. I recommend it highly.	2000-06-20
US	51997044	R1L7VM57R3IKO5	0321037979	78411598	The Little, Brown Handbook	Books	5	92	97	N	N	What else does a writer need?	This handbook is all an aspiring writer needs to grasp the technical aspects of the English language. Virtually every nuance of English grammar is discussed at length, including the subjunctive mood (yes, English has  one), and the Passive voice (yes, the one your English teacher always asked  you not to use!). The book has 883 pages. I will value this even more when  I go to graduate school next year.<br /> Why is this book useful? Have you  ever wanted to know how to correctly use question marks, commas, and  quotation marks? Well, virtually every punctuation mark in existence is  explained in the book. Typically rules of usage are given first, and then  the explanation is followed by an example sentence. This format makes  learning the concepts very easy.<br />There are also extremely helpful  chapters on the use reasoning skills, reading and thinking critically,  revising, editing, finding sources, and many, many more helpful topics. The  book has sections on MLA, APA, CBE, and Chicago Styles of citing works. So  whether you need to write a paper for a Psychology class or an English  class, you can find help here. There are also tips included on how to do  work in various fields, such as the humanities and social sciences. Another  informative section is Glossary of Usage chapter. Included here are  commonly misused words, and an explanation of their correct usage (and  examples of such usage). For instance, did you know that \\"lay\\" is  transitive and \\"lie\\" intransitive? Or did you know that the past participle  form of \\"lie\\" is \\"I have lain?\\"<br />I could go on and on about what is  included, but there is just so much, it would take more than a few pages!  You will have to trust me that this book offers grammar tips, writing  hints, citation methods, and other helpful tools. Here is a listing of the  contents for all interested:<br />Preface for Instructors<br />Preface for  Students: Using This Book  Introduction: Critical Thinking, Reading, and  Writing<br />Pt. I The Whole Paper and Paragraphs<br />Pt. II Grammatical  Sentences<br />Pt. III Clear Sentences<br />Pt. IV Effective Sentences<br />Pt. V  Punctuation<br />Pt. VI Mechanics<br />Pt. VII Effective Words<br />Pt. VIII  Research Writing<br />Pt. IX Special Writing Situations<br />App. A Document  Format<br />App. B Writing with a Computer<br />App. C Oral Presentations,  Glossary of Usage, Glossary of Termsbr />Pt. I The Whole Paper and Paragraphs <br />Pt. II Grammatical  Sentences<br />Pt. III Clear Sentences<br />Pt. IV Effective Sentences <br />Pt. V  Punctuation<br />Pt. VI Mechanics <br />Pt. VII Effective Words <br />Pt. VIII  Research Writing <br />Pt. IX Special Writing Situations <br />App. A Document  Format<br />App. B Writing with a Computer <br />App. C Oral Presentations,  Glossary of Usage, Glossary of Terms	2000-06-07
US	51997044	R3PMD3GTM1COO1	066946774X	378674865	Write Source 2000: A Guide to Writing, Thinking and Learning	Books	5	99	101	N	N	The best tool for student writers!	When I was in 7th grade I first purchased this book, and I have used the guidelines outlined in it ever since. There is quite a lot of valuable information packed into the book!<br /> There are sections on Basic Grammar  and Writing Elements, the Art of Writing, Personal Writing (such as in a  journal), Subject Writing (such as a news story), Creative writing (such as  poetry), Thinking skills, etc.<br /> One of the most helpful parts of the book  is the &quot;Yellow Pages&quot; section, which is basically a grammar tour  de force that explains subordinate clauses and other potentially difficult  elements of English Grammar. Perhaps the most useful part of this section  is the &quot;Using the Right Word&quot; section. It has commonly misused  words, such as &quot;Effect&quot; and &quot;Affect.&quot; It has each word  properly defined and used correctly in a sentence as an example.<br /> Finally  at the end is a tables of weights and measures, a periodic table, a Morse  code alphabet, a world map set, historical documents such as the  Emancipation Proclamation, etc.<br /> What more can I say? I am now 22 and I  rediscovered this book a week ago, and it is still just as relevant today  as it was then. The book also plenty of interesting illustrations to keep  any student ages 8-17 satisfied, but it also has quite a lot of clearly  explained writing guidelines. It is amazing, and should improve the writing  power of whoever would use it.	2000-05-28
US	51997044	RSGCP0VNQNXMX	0062735233	357567442	On Writing Well: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction	Books	5	54	58	N	Y	Every writer should read this...	When one of my professors handed back an essay he marked it all in red. It was then I knew I needed improve my writing style. My professor emphasized the importance of using the correct word in the correct situation, writing  what is really meant, and getting rid of all useless word clutter.  When I  found this book on amazon.com, I was delighted, but I wasn't sure what to  exactly expect. To my surprise, Zinsser emphasizes the exact same  principles my Humanities professor did (yet they had never been emphasized  in any prior class)!<br /> Zinsser gives extremely practical advice about  writing, in a very flowing and interesting style.  One important thing he  stresses is that to write well, one has to *work at it*. I was used to  sitting down and expecting the words just to flow. Now when I write, I take  the time to use the principles Zinsser outlines. This is one of those books  that I have highlighted nearly every line in. The whole book is very useful  for the professional and novice writer. I don't think I would ever be  without it. The interview section was particularly helpful when I needed to  do one for a church newsletter. There should be something for everyone who  wants to write about places, sports, science, business, or memoirs (there  is a chapter on each).<br /> This book will be of particular help to me when  I go to graduate school next year. Then I will especially need to be able  to organize my thoughts and write in a clear and concise manner. Overall I  cannot stop stressing how important this book has been in improving my  writing style.	2000-05-19
US	51997044	R2XIG8Y7YOFEB9	0891075720	676783707	In the Midst of Wolves	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Yes this is the 60s singer Barry Mcguire...	Who can ever live without a book by 60's protest singer Barry Mcguire? Well, I couldn't since I own this book. It is a novel written about a group of bikers who come to know God. It was written in the early 90's. The only reason I reviewed this book, is because when I first heard of it I  wondered, &quot;Is this the same Barry Mcguire that recorded 'Eve of  Destruction?'&quot; So now you know, it is!	2000-04-27
US	51997044	R23ZAQPOJ14XTI	0849938600	983809398	Evangelicals and Catholics Together: Toward a Common Mission	Books	5	30	35	N	N	United for a common cause!	Being an Anglican, I am the first to admit that the Catholic church has doctrines I don't agree with. However, so does every denomination. I don't even agree completely on every Anglican Doctrine!<br /> The reason I started out with that paragraph, is that this is the attitude the contributors to  this book take. The Protestant contributors (Mark Noll, J.I. Packer,  Charles Colson) do not wish to become Catholic. Nor do the Catholic  contributors (Avery Dulles, George Wiegel) wish to become Protestant. What  they do wish to do is come together in unity, especially in para-church  organizations.<br /> So the basic message of this book is, that while firmly  recognizing the points on which protestants and Catholics disagree, as  worshippers of the Triune God we need to be unified in today's  post-Christian society, and to have meaningful discussions about our  beliefs. I really enjoyed this book because of the conrtibutors'  willingness to strive for peace and unity, while still holding to doctrinal  truth.<br /> Of note, the complete &quot;Evangelicals and Catholics  Together&quot; statement is included, as well as the list of people who  signed the statement (which includes famous men such as Pat Roberston, R.C.  Sproul, Thomas Oden, and Bill Bright)	2000-04-27
US	51997044	R130SVEHOKFZ57	1565633571	737410466	A Dictionary of Early Christian Beliefs: A Reference Guide to More Than 700 Topics Discussed by the Early Church Fathers	Books	5	57	62	N	N	Do you want to know what the early church believed...?	How the early church (those who lived from the time of the apostle John to around 330 AD) viewed issues may be slightly different than many Christians do today. This book (all 704 pages!) catalogs those beliefs in a systematic, topical fashion. Want to know what the church believed about  Original Sin? or the Trinity? or abortion? or even reincarnation? Bercot  puts together a variety of quotes (directly from the Ante-Nicene writings)  together for each topic. Many topics have 10 or more quotes of a variety of  lengths from the church Fathers. Also the page number of the quote (in the  Ante-Nicene 10 volume set) and the date of the author are listed. Also  included at the very beginning is a brief biography of the major Christian  Fathers.<br /> The doctrines that the early church held may surprise many  today...overall, they wouldn't serve in the army if it meant killing, they  believed in free-will, and they accepted the apocrypha, at least as useful  reading. Even if one does not accept their interpretation, it is still  useful to know what the people who lived closest to Christ thought and  believed. It is truly an excellent reference guide I would never be  without. I personally get my theology from the Bible and the  interpretations of it provided by the Church fathers.	2000-04-27
US	51997044	R1Z5DA5KZ6YJK8	0060663626	776058591	Life in the Spirit (Systematic Theology, Volume 3)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Scholarly, useful, and Biblical information on the church...	Oden's third and final volume continues where the 1st two left off. This volume is dedicated to the work of the Holy Spirit, Redemption, and the church.<br /> Like the other volumes the information contained within is useful, but thick and highly detailed. Oden quotes from the Bible, as well  as a host of Church fathers and reformers. His systematic theologies are  unqiue in this way, others that I have looked over, such as Grudem's, tend  to start Christianity in the 1500s.<br /> This book has multiple useful  charts, such as the three types of churches, and the types of judgment.<br />  Oden's work is in-depth, and I don't feel as if one should read it like a  novel from cover to cover straight through. Rather it serves as a great  reference work to be used any time digging deeper is needed. When my  girlfriend's bible study leader was saying some theologically iffy  statements, we got out Oden and found the information we needed to show her  what orthodoxy thought on the matter. Now that my girlfriend is leading  bible study we find that Oden's charts and information are extremely  helpful (though there is so much information in even one chart that it  usually takes more than one Bible study meeting to wade through it!)  Overall, excellent!	2000-04-27
US	51997044	R3DNZLNHAPTUWK	0687020034	461285368	Requiem: A Lament in Three Movements	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Excellent critique of the 'modern' church	Oden (A United Methodist) here writes about his views on current church issues. Oden himself believes the church should return to the creed based faith of classical orthodoxy (and rediscover the Eastern Church fathers). What Oden describes are various incidences he has come up against. One  incident is when he was at Drew University's chapel and the sermon was  given on the goddess Sophia, and the alienation he felt. Another is when he  went to private mass before the pope, and how powerful that experience  was.<br /> Oden tackles the whole issue of what it means to be  &quot;post-modern,&quot; which to him means the period of time after the  failure of Modernism and the attitudes of this generation. He stingingly  critiques the faddish pursuits of many seminaries and professors.<br /> Oden  is not ultra-conservative. He believes in biblical criticism, and even  believes women can preach, and he is clear to make this point.<br /> One of  the most useful parts of this book, is his 5 or so page, &quot;Open  Letter&quot; which is addressed to believers (especially in the Incarnation  and the Resurrection) entering into an ultra-modern seminary. Oden gives  advice on how to keep faith and to assert one's rights. Overall a good book  that while sharply criticizing hyper-modernism, does not fall into  extremism in the other direction.	2000-04-27
US	51997044	R3SMRA3T19MO1Z	0570030595	192725270	My Prayer Book	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Prayer for every occasion!	Never be without the words to pray. This book has very lengthy and heart-felt prayers for a large number of topics. There are prayers for: the sick, for our country, for holidays like Christmas Eve, for children, for parents, for travelers etc. The list goes on and on and on! It is truly a  useful addition to anybody's prayer time. It is also interesting to think  that others may be praying the same prayer as you are!	2000-04-27
US	51997044	R17POG17Y7UXAD	0819214760	12502869	Evangelicals on the Canterbury Trail	Books	5	49	54	N	N	My Story almost exactly!	I had been drawn to the Anglican Church for about a year before I joined. I think it all started when I visited a Catholic church (followed by an Orthodox one) and experienced a deep sense of mystery. Then I started  reading the Church Fathers of the 1st Millennium, as well as mystics.  However, there were certain doctrines of the Catholic and Orthodox churches  I could not accept (though don't get me wrong I believe they are  Christians!). The next logical step of my yearning for mystery, and love of  the church fathers was the Episcopal Church.<br /> My story (with the Catholic  visits and church fathers) resembles Webber's and the others' testimonies.  While mine is slightly different it is not too far off. Webber came from a  fundamentalist Baptist tradition (I was a United Methodist), which believed  the church went apostate around 100 AD. Webber was also a die hard 5-point  Calvinist (as he said '1st a Calvinist, then a Christian'). He also had  negative attitudes toward mainline denominations, and especially Catholics.  But he found the evangelical church lacking. There was no mystery; it all  seemed either too rational or too emotionally subjective. He felt like many  things were missing, namely mystery and symbolic worship (such as signing  the cross, and anointing with oil). He said he had never felt the  resurrection until he went to a Roman Catholic service. Until then the  Resurrection was just a cold doctrine he felt like he had to defend.<br />  Like Webber, I can still call myself an evangelical, but I don't mean it in  the same way I used to. Like Webber, I have come to appreciate diversity in  the church (as long as the creeds can be said honestly).One thing Webber  learned was that there is such a thing as the universal and apostolic  church, one that transcends denominations, including the Anglican  Church.<br />  Like the testimonies in the book, I have no malice toward  my old church tradition, in fact I am proud of it in many ways. However,  many who know I have become Episcopal often ask \\"Why?\\" The best thing I  could do would be to point them to this book.many who know I have become Episcopal often ask \\"Why?\\" The best thing I  could do would be to point them to this book.	2000-04-12
US	51997044	R33RAZHXML2V1	0060663634	750492999	The Living God: Systemic Theology: Volume One (Systematic Theology, Vol 1)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	An orthodox, yet smart Systematic theology	Oden, a professor at Drew University, used to be a die-hard modernist, by his own admission. Upon reading the church fathers (such as Hilary, Basil, Jerome, Athanasius, etc) he actually was drawn toward traditional  Christianity. It is not surprising that this book (about God's nature and  actions) is very traditional, and relies on the Church Fathers', including  the reformers, ideas. By using the Bible, as interpreted by the Fathers and  the reformers, well reasoned and enduring theology is presented. However  this book is very detailed and is very comprehensive, which as another  reviewer pointed out, may seem boring to some. However to others it is a  great summary of the Christian faith.  Here Oden looks at: God's nature,  God's character, his name, his works, his Triunity, etc. I highly recommend  this book. It is probably the best sytematic theology on the market.	2000-03-27
US	51997044	RFROAFV1FVYTC	0937032565	380171209	Orthodox Church: 455 Questions and Answers (A concise and comprehensive handbook on the Orthodox Faith. Indexed for easy reference)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Eastern Orthodox Views on Modern Issues	This book is composed of 455 questions that many people are asking today. Here the Eastern Orthodox answers are given. There are a variety of subjects covered, such as the Apocrypha, Byzantine Catholics, Capital  Punishment, War, the Pope, Istanbul, etc. Within each section there are  questions people have asked relating to these topics. Such questions  include: What Does the EO church believe about Birth Control? Why Don't  More People Believe in God? What is Love? and Why are there so many  Christian churches? These are just a few examples of what the Church  believes on these pressing issues. The only drawback is that the book was  written in 1988, so the more contemporary issues may not be covered. But  otherwise it is a useful book.	2000-03-27
US	51997044	R3LKRZFR05IXGR	0664241530	77479484	Alexandrian Christianity (Library of Christian Classics)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Execellent collection of Alexandrian works...	As the title suggests, this is a collection of works by Christians who lived in the Egyptian city of Alexandria. The following works are included: &quot;On Marriage,&quot; and &quot;On Spiritual Perfection&quot; by Clement  of Alexandria (which are technically Stromata books III and VII, the former  which is only in Latin in the Ante-Nicene Fathers set.), &quot;On  Prayer,&quot; &quot;Exhortation to Martyrdom,&quot; and &quot;Dialogue with  Heraclides,&quot; by Origen (all three books are absent from the  Ante-Nicene Fathers set). There are nice introductions to each book and  each author. Chadwick gives very detalied notes and explanations of  Origen's &quot;On Prayer.&quot; This is an excellent book for 2 reasons.  First it is a great sample of the skilled thinkers of Alexandria. Second,  it acts as a good supplement to the Ante-Nicene Fathers set.	2000-03-27
US	51997044	R1FEE4NMFY21JO	0881411744	450757781	On the Apostolic Preaching	Books	5	43	49	N	N	Execllent treatise by Irenaeus	This is a work by Irenaeus that wasn't discovered until fairly recently, so it is not included in the excellent 10 volume Ante-Nicene Fathers set. The work is essentially a summary of the Christian faith by the Bishop  Irenaeus (lived around 177 AD). The work 'recounts all the various deeds of  God culminated in Jesus Christ.' It, unlike the works of Justin and  Athenagoras from the same period, is non-polemical and non-apologetic.  There are quite a few notes, a nice introduction, and some Greek words  provided in the text when the English translation provided is uncertain.	2000-03-27
US	51997044	R3MZZL4QO6K6KB	0060663642	399316204	The Word of Life: Systematic Theology: Volume Two	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Comprehensive and well thought out...	This is the 2nd volume of Oden's excellent systematic theology series. This book is about Jesus, all 583 pages! Oden is very detalied, and he has done his research. His presentation uses a varity of sources: The Bible,  Ante and Nicene church Fathers, Medieval theologians, reformers, and  finally modern theologians. Oden is for the most part a traditional  Christian. In this book he gives a very orthodox understanding. For  instance, He deals with non-traditional explanations of the resurrection  and gives good reasons why they are not well thought out hypotheses. He  even looks at the historical Jesus issue. He also covers Divine Sonship,  the Incarnation and Jesus' two natures (human and divine). I was looking  for the perfect Systematic Theology and I would say this comes close. He  has HUGE numbers of references, and he is always refferring back to the  church Fathers, the reformers and of course the Bible. I have looked over  many ST's and this is by far, 1)the most detailed, and 2.) the most well  thought out. By the way Oden leans toward a Wesleyan understanding of  free-will, but he quotes Calvin extensively as well.	2000-03-19
US	51997044	R37MLJP43ZZ1AW	0684823845	875737488	The Weight of Glory and Other Addresses	Books	5	162	167	N	N	Enlightening addresses	Lewis is at his best in this collection. As the preface mentions, the sermon &quot;the Weight of Glory,&quot; deserves to be placed on the level of the Church Fathers' writings because of its elegance and insightfulness.  In this sermon Lewis looks at the afterlife, which we get glimpses of while  on earth. He makes some excellent observations, and I was left thinking,  &quot;Of course!&quot; and &quot;Why didn't I see that before?&quot; One of  the unqiue observations Lewis makes is that all humans are truly  &quot;immortals.&quot; Cultures and the earth are mortal, but your  neighbor, children, etc, are all immortal, and we need to treat them as  such. The other sermons are very good (though &quot;The Weight of  Glory&quot; has to be the best). For instance &quot;Is Theology  Poetry?&quot; examines a topic many of us probably have never thought of  examining, i.e. is our theology poetry? The address &quot;On  forgiveness&quot; separates forgiveness (which is totally undeserving) from  excusing (which is where we did something wrong, but have some valid  excuse) and goes from there. Overall the points Lewis makes are  enlightening and useful to our everyday lives. These are some of the best  sermons I have ever heard or read.	2000-02-01
US	51997044	RQ8D7IVTQJCCZ	0802808689	694218053	God in the Dock: Essays on Theology and Ethics	Books	5	100	102	N	Y	A fine collection of essays and letters	Have you ever wanted to read C.S. Lewis' thoughts on a variety of subjects? If so, then this book is for you. There are 48 separate essays, which vary in length from a few pages to around 12. Such topics include  &quot;Religion and Science,&quot; &quot;Is Theism Important?&quot;  &quot;The Decline of Religion,&quot; and the actual essay entitled  &quot;God in the Dock.&quot; The latter essay is about how we put ourselves  on the bench and God in the dock. We will believe in God only if he answers  the hard questions for us, and then we may actually &quot;acquit&quot; God.  Like Lewis' other works, it is very thought prokoving.  There are  also 12 letters which Lewis wrote that cover a variety of topics including  capital punishment and singing hymns. These letters show both Lewis'  personality and intellect.  When I first checked this book out of the  library and read a few of the essays, I had to buy it. For a long time I  have asked myself, &quot;What does Lewis think of this or that issue?&quot;  This book is a good way to find out basically what he believes. I don't  think reading these essays is an excuse not to read his longer works (such  as the utterly amazing &quot;Great Divorce), but they do give a broad  picture of what Lewis thinks.	2000-02-01
US	51997044	R3MBS5NZ8ONXD5	1565630823	323837331	The Ante-Nicene Fathers (10 Volume Set)	Books	5	71	72	N	N	Every Christian should read this	This is the (basically) complete set of the Early church writings up until 325 A.D. These 10 volumes contain quite a lot of material. Volume 10 is actually an index of all of the earlier books. The complete works of  Justin, Clement, Athenagoras, Ignatius, etc are found within. I agree with  the other poster that there are some problems. The issue of new texts  discovered is a big one. Since the time this series was published many new  texts have been found, such as the Gospel of Thomas and 2 works by Origen.  So that is an issue. Also the way they put Clement of Alexandria's third  book in Latin is silly today. Luckily I managed to find another translation  that had it. The third problem is the English is pretty stagnant at times.  Its very stiff and complex at times, but I actually have come to like it  (don't ask me why!). But I am still giving this 5 stars because the set is  fairly affordable, and there is a lot of great stuff in here for the price.  Virtually every pre-Nicene writing, from the Didache to Alexander of  Alexandria's letters to Arius, is in here. I would never be without this  set.	2000-01-30
US	51997044	R3JQR3A53R2WSQ	0935216154	527048637	The Collected Works of St. John of the Cross (includes The Ascent of Mount Carmel, The Dark Night, The Spiritual Canticle, The Living Flame of Love, Letters, and The Minor Works)	Books	5	35	38	N	N	St. John is a mystic	This is the collected works by John of the Cross, a Christian mystic known for his deep relationship with God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Both he and Teresa Avila are the chief mystics in the Western Christian tradition.  Included in this collection are most of his works.  These include his  poetry, &quot;Dark Night of the Soul,&quot; &quot;Ascent of Mount  Carmel,&quot; &quot;Spiritual Canticle,&quot; &quot;Living the Flame of  Love,&quot; and &quot;Sayings of Light and Love.&quot; Also some other  random material is included. The works are rendered in beautiful English  from the original Spanish (in the poetry section the original Spanish is  listed too). John is the official patron of poetry for Spain, and if you  read his works, you'll know why.	2000-01-30
US	51997044	R2S5OCHEP4H18E	0684823780	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	60	66	N	N	A reasoned look at Christianity	C.S. Lewis is perhaps the greatest Christian thinker of the 20th century. This book is one of his masterpieces. Basically this book is a reasoned explanation of the Christian religion. He covers the Trinity, the book of  Genesis, etc. However, this is not light reading. Some books by Lewis (such  as the &quot;Great Divorce&quot; and &quot;Chronicles of Narnia&quot;) are  very light and profound reading. Mere Christianity is not light. It's one  of those books that you have to read one page three times before you move  on. Lewis is not afraid to get deep and detailed in this book. There's a  lot of philosophy in here which I like, its not just an &quot;I believe and  that's that&quot; type of book. Really heavy, but rewarding reading.	2000-01-20
US	51997044	R3DIER432QJMW0	0849914248	790970382	Rich Christians In An Age Of Hunger: Moving from Affluence to Generosity (20th Anniversary Revision)	Books	5	112	122	N	N	Insightful and Orthodox	Sider presents us with a problem as Christians. We are filthy rich while others are extremely poor. While some will call this book &quot;liberal&quot; and &quot;socialist,&quot; the best word for it is  orthodox. One of the best points Dr. Sider makes is that while we try  desperately to be theologically orthodox (and he is), in our actions we are  heretics. The book of Acts describes the system of the early Christians  regarding money quite well. The were essentially communists, but most  importantly they shared and didn't care for material possesions. The same  is true of the early Christians, they would take literally Jesus' words  &quot;Sell everything you have and give to the poor...&quot; Sider's facts  are shocking as to how poor suffering souls are over the world. The basic  premise of this book is to show the extreme poverty of most of the world,  and then show the Bible's opinion on this. He is a prophet against  materialism and I like his style. He supports capitalism as I do, but he  believes we as Christians are just as materialistic as the non-Christians.  It was Jesus himself who said &quot;Its easier for a camel to go through  the eye of a needle than a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.&quot;  Finally a book that does not confuse Biblicism with conservative economics.	2000-01-19
US	51997044	RSETUVRKKJXDM	0898692741	820267646	The Proper for the Lesser Feasts and Fasts 1997: Together With the Fixed Holy Days	Books	5	22	22	N	N	An essential help in worship	This Book contains what the Book of Common Prayer leaves out. The BoCP has daily office readings and prayers for the major feasts and holy days, but leaves out the info for the lesser ones. The whole calendar is included  here. For every holy day there is a prayer (both in archaic and modern  English), some scripture readings, and a nice biography on each saint. For  instance on Saint Antony's day the scripture readings focus on discipline  and living separated from the world. Also included is a Eucharist  Lectionary. I like this because I enjoy learning from the lives of the  saints, and find keeping even the lesser feasts brings me closer to God. I  would not be without this book.  P.S. the type is huge, unlike some of the  BoCP editions.	2000-01-18
US	51997044	R1WI59BVJ4IWAW	0195283562	790009576	The New Oxford Annotated Bible with Apocrypha: An Ecumenical Study Bible	Books	5	52	57	N	N	One of the best overall Bibles out there	When I first came in contact with this Bible I thought it above average. However as I have read more of it I find that it is very accurate. The NRSV has become my favorite translation, and the notes of the Oxford Study Bible  are illuminating. The annotators are for the most part believing  Christians, though they are more moderate than the NIV Study Bible  annotators. The notes are fairly numerous and the essays and maps are a  nice touch. There is also a small concordance in the back. I would never be  without this Bible, and I am an orthodox, believing Christian. As always I  advise consulting multiple versions when attempting to do a complete study.	2000-01-18
US	51997044	R1FL5R27UB74X3	158135021X	435704308	New American Standard Ultrathin Reference Bible; Burgundy Bonded Leather; Indexed	Books	5	27	32	N	N	The Best NASB out there...	This has to be the best edition of the NASB. First of all it has the all-new 1995 update of the NASB (which has changed some words and gotten rid of thees and thous). The Bible is nicely bound imitation leather. The  words of Christ are in red. There is a medium sized concordance in the  back. There are a few maps back there too. It's a very sharp looking bible.  There are no study notes, but this Bible is the right size and quality to  take to church with you. The NASB is also considered one of the most  accurate translations around.	2000-01-15
US	51997044	R33NCGG0LMH3IO	1885217706	17897525	New American Standard Gift & Award Bible; Burgundy Imitation Leather	Books	4	30	34	N	N	A plain and simple NASB...	This Bible is the new updated NASB translation. The translation is accurate, but this particular Bible has only the basics. The print is fairly cramped, and as far as extra perks go, there are a few B&amp;W maps  and a small concordance. A good economy Bible to own, but no special  frills.	2000-01-13
US	51997044	R2JZYBK3ECHUEL	0451527372	327589516	The Iliad (Signet Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A good edition for anyone...	This version of the Iliad is very appealing for a variety of reasons. First of all it's the Iliad, which is one of the masterpieces of Western Civ. Second, the translation by Rouse is very readable and is in plain  English. Third, the price is just right, fairly affordable for a classic.  The only potential drawback would be that this edition is not meant to be  majestic, it's really rather plain and the print is fairly small. But for  someone like myself who just wants the story for a good price, this edition  cannot be beat.	2000-01-13
US	51997044	R2WG44RPJ36O26	0192830090	597975424	The Early Christian Fathers: A Selection from the Writings of the Fathers from St. Clement of Rome to St. Athanasius (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A good sampling of the early church...	If I had to suggest one book that would give the best summary of major Christian thought development from the start until 350 AD, I would suggest this book. It has samples of writings from the likes of Justin Martyr and  Athanasius, grouped by author and then sub-grouped by topic. Its an  excellent summary.	2000-01-13
US	51997044	R1C7XZS5W7K2I5	0529068214	358332954	NRSV Gift and Award Bible	Books	5	30	31	N	N	A Great gift and/or award Bible!	As far as gift and award Bibles go, this deserves the full 5 stars. It has readable print, words of Christ in red, some color maps, and a small dictionary in the very back. The translation is the accurate NRSV text.  This edition lacks the deutero-canon, but for protestants that won't be an  issue. The only minor problem may be that it is slightly steep in price for  a gift Bible.	2000-01-13
US	51997044	R2ZHAEI4US0WF6	0840712898	787668598	New American Bible Student Text Edition	Books	4	22	25	N	N	A good NAB	This edition of the NAB is bascically similar to the other editions out there. It's essentially a scaled down St. joseph edition. It contains useful notes, a lectionary, various essays at the end of the Bible on  relevant topics and a pope list (which is actually missing from my Saint  Joseph edition). I would recommend this edition for those who don't want to  spend the money for the St. joe's edition, or want a paperback copy of the  NAB. I will warn you, this is one thick paperback book! A nice Bible which  I use a lot.	2000-01-13
US	51997044	R2ZXVPZ7XBZA8U	0425149811	935079240	Portofino	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Fantastic!	I am not much of a fiction reader, in fact the only fiction books I have read recently are the Chronicles of Narnia series. But that was until I picked this book up, and after I picked it up I could not put it down! Its  a first rate story that captures the magic of youth through the eyes of  Calvin Becker. This book does poke fun at most Reformed Protestants though,  so beware if you are a long-winded Baptist. I don't know how much of this  is autobiography, but many of the situations seem as if they may have  actually occurred in Frank's life. Even though he may poke fun (and at  times just criticize) reformed folks who are always saying that 'Catholics  worship Mary, etc etc,' he still portrays his family as one that has a  tender and loving side to it. His father's walk with his son in the hills  of Portafino really touched me. It almost made me wish I was Calvin! This  is a great book!	2000-01-12
US	51997044	R1D489WM8QRFN1	0192821083	940177967	The Oxford Book of Prayer (Oxford paperbacks)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A nice anthology	This prayer book is very complete and it has prayers through the ages grouped into loose categories based on how the prayer relates to the Lord's Prayer, Apostles Creed, etc. I use this in my personal worship quite a bit.  The prayers are from a wide variety of saints and Christians. There are  also some non-Christian prayers there for those interested.	2000-01-12
US	51997044	R46TAHTEYXN0M	0802463320	149519423	The New Unger's Bible Handbook -- Student Edition	Books	4	20	28	N	N	A not too bad reference tool....	The UBH is fairly informative, and I found the info on the early church and canon formation very helpful. However the theological beliefs of the author creep in a lot. In Revelation, for instance, he only treats the  futurist view of interpretation as worthwhile, while dismissing the other  views without any real evidence against them. I have found this book was  very useful when I was a younger Christian, but now it basically sits on  the shelf. I think the NIV Study Bible's notes and package are the better  way to go.	2000-01-12
US	51997044	R1S65UGV5DI6UU	0849935059	782363972	20 Hot Potatoes Christians Are Afraid To Touch	Books	5	50	58	N	N	Excellent Treatment of modern issues!	Tony takes a reasoned look at today's main problems that Christians are afraid to tackle. To put it plainly Tony is an evangelical that follows the bible, not just conservative or liberal political trends. He is often  bashed b/c although he believes homosexuality is wrong he sees no reason in  making it some kind of super-sin over any other. He also believes in saving  the environment b/c it belongs to God, not us. Many won't like Tony's views  b/c he challenges people, not to liberalism, but to biblicism. Tony is not  a heretic. In fact his views would probably be in line with most of the  early Church writers (from what I have read by them).	2000-01-12
US	51997044	R31OUWSRCTYYHC	1565656296	360132888	Conversationally Speaking: Tested New Ways to Increase Your Personal and Social Effectiveness	Books	5	48	53	N	N	Effective with no BS	This book should be read by anyone who has had even mild trouble meeting and effectively communicating with others. The techniques are all very useful and unlike other books which are mostly theory this book is number 1  in the practical application department. When I was down for awhile it  really helped to have such straightforward and concrete help in meeting  others. The book will make a people person out of the wallflower and even  give those of us who have a lot of friends some help :)	2000-01-12
US	51997044	R2C9WS7JTQJH3F	0310925681	761911697	NIV Study Bible	Books	5	35	39	N	N	Every Evangelical should own this...	I think many evangelicals know the Bible only in terms of life application. They don't know the difference between God and God the one and Only (see John 1:18 NIV), nor concern themselves with theological or  historical aspects of the Bible. The NIV study Bible should help change  this. Its notes are concise, numerous, and very informative. When I got  this Bible, it opened up a whole new area of fascinating biblical study  that perviously I had overlooked. The translation of the NIV is readable  and for the most part accurate (though they sacrifice literalness for the  sake of readability a lot). The notes represent the conservative side of  theology and I agree with most of what they say, though I always have other  versions on hand to broaden the depth of study. My only real big complaint  is the lack of the deuterocanon. Though I do not consider the books to be  'inspired' scripture, I do believe for a complete study of the Bible they  should be consulted. Maybe in a future addition they will be included. If  people ask me which Bible to buy, I usually say this one.	2000-01-11
US	51997044	R31H1INNAWFXA2	0385142641	850567352	The New Jerusalem Bible: The Complete Text of the Ancient Canon of the Scriptures with Up-to-Date Introductions and Notes	Books	5	131	133	N	Y	A very good scholarly/spiritual Bible	The NJB as a translation is unique in many ways. The main thing that makes it unique is that rather than using the euphemism LORD, it actually renders the divine name as Yahweh. This makes reading the Old Testament almost a new experience. It also transliterates other Hebrew names for God, like  El-Shaddai.  Its one of the few accurate versions to use the divine name.  The translation is also poetic, yet accurate. The Regular Edition featured  here is the best version of the NJB to own. The notes and book intros are  extremely concise (and I mean very) and informative. There is a lot of  information included in there. The maps and timelines are also very  helpful. Overall this package is well put together and a great edition to  anyone's collection.	2000-01-10
US	51997044	R2IXBYH3KW2R0C	089942953X	517479148	New American Bible: St. Joseph Edition : Brown Leather	Books	5	168	174	N	N	The Best NAB package out there	This St. Joseph New American Bible is one of the best. The reasons? A clear and scholarly translation, inclusion of the apocrypha, countless notes and maps, a section of church terms (and reading calendar), and many  other side features. The binding of the Bible is very sturdy imitation  leather and the glossy box makes a great storage case. The text contains  various full color pictures interwoven into it. A very useful, but  incredibly inexpensive package. I don't think there is a better Bible for  the price out there. I use it quite a bit and I am not even Catholic.	2000-01-08
US	51997044	RWE61AP6USY59	0140231994	550654648	The Early Church (The Penguin History of the Church) (v. 1)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	An almost exciting read	Henry Chadwick is one of the foremost scholars of Church History. His style is clear and his presentation solid. This book concisely covers the beginnings of the Church from the time of the apostles to around 600 AD, covering the &quot;Patristic&quot; or Church Father period.<br />Basically Henry covers one of the most interesting and fruitful periods in Church history. He covers both historical details and the theology and philosophies of various church fathers. The controversies of the early Church, from the Proto-Charismatic Montanism to the later Arian-Nicene struggle over the doctrine of the Trinity, are represented accurately. The struggles are almost exciting.<br />Overall this book will give the reader a basic introduction into the history of the early Christian Church. For the more advanced student, this particular work by Chadwick might seem too basic, but that is its purpose. This book will be a new experience for some, as it was for me when I first read it. Certain issues considered &quot;fundamentals&quot; to many Christians today, such as biblical inerrancy, were not even really discussed in the early Church. Although, certain Biblical issues such as Canonization (choosing which texts would be a part of the Bible) were hot issues. As a scholar of Church history and a Christian, I use this book often and recommend its use to others.	2000-01-05
US	51997044	RUVXMDVC5ZVMA	0385479670	701055253	Catechism of the Catholic Church: Complete and Updated	Books	5	35	39	N	Y	A good explanation of the Faith	Let me first state I am a Protestant and study the Eastern Orthodox church quite a bit (just so you guys know :), but I have to say this is a good catechism for anyone to understand the Christian faith. While there are  parts I do not agree with theologically (Assumption of Mary, etc) I do find  the book to be very concise and informative. For Catholics this would have  to be the book to get to understand one's faith. And for protestants it  would be good to read to get the facts before they bash.	2000-01-05
US	51997044	R21FWO48HRQC2G	0310218950	622603436	Greek Grammar Beyond the Basics: An Exegetical Syntax of the New Testament with Scripture, Subject, and Greek Word Indexes	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Truely the Best!	This has to be one of the best grammars out there. It is very easy to follow, but it does present advanced material (it is not a 1st year grammar). I have heard scholars say wonderful things about this grammar. I  am proud to own it. It is very helpful.	2000-01-05
US	51997044	R2SV0TCYDT0887	0924722029	885556172	The One Who Knows God	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	A must read!	This book was written by a guy who lived the Bible's teachings! His writings are fascinating and are explained in a clear, concise manner. The book basically contains excerpts from some of Clement's writings (mostly  the Rich Man's Salvation and the Miscellanies book 7) put into modern  language. I have highlighted virtually every line in my copy!	2000-01-05
US	51997044	R3JZ3PJISQ9UO2	0840712715	24020513	Good News Bible: Good News With Deuterocanonicals/Apocrypha Today's English Version for Catholics 2nd Edition	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Clear and Accurate Bible Version!	The TEV is a great version. Whenever I find another version wordy or hard to grasp I always go to the TEV to clear it up. This edition is especially useful b/c it is a nice hardbound copy, it has the apocrypha and  deuterocanonicals for those who wish to study more in depth, and it has  nice essays and book intros. Overall a VERY nice and inexpenisve package.	2000-01-05
US	51997044	R371C2K3PYQ0HO	0140444750	431284056	Early Christian Writings: The Apostolic Fathers	Books	5	16	19	N	Y	A good survey of the (very) early church	This book contains many post-apostolic writings of the early church. Most were written very soon after the apostolic age however. The translation and footnotes are for the most part rendered in modern English and flow well.  The footnotes and introductions to each book are helpful. This would be a  good book to buy if you wish to begin studying the early church.	2000-01-05
US	51997044	R2AV0O386FA7MR	0802808824	827942342	The New Testament: An Expanded Translation	Books	5	49	56	N	Y	Very precise and literal	This review is for Kenneth Wuest's New Testament and not Lattimore's. Unfortunately, amazon.com confuses the two.<br />Wuest tries to render the New testament in a precise and literal way, attempting to bring out all shades of meaning. He often uses 2-3 lines for a verse when other Bibles simply use one sentence. His work is good for serious study or perhaps as novelty, but when it comes time to read long passages or preach from the text, you should probably look elsewhere. Wuest does have an inherent Protestant bias, but alas he is Protestant.<br />Buy it and own a good translation. I found it interesting just to look up favorite passages of mine and see how Wuest brings out the shades of meaning in the Greek.	2000-01-05
US	51997044	RS904X6A6LC4A	0684824981	124892000	A Diary of Private Prayer	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	This guy has heart!	Baillie puts heart and soul into every prayer. The prayers are very long and extremely well written. They are extremely powerful and pious. I wish I could pray from the heart like he does. The prayers are inspirational and  make a great adddition to any personal worship service.	2000-01-05
US	51997044	R2GAM8HKSVV1N6	0674991036	549652009	Clement of Alexandria: The Exhortation to the Greeks. The Rich Man's Salvation. To the Newly Baptized (fragment) (Loeb Classical Library)	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	Fascinating!	Clement of Alexandria was a philosophic Christian writer of the late second century AD. His work and teachings heavily influenced his brilliant pupil Origen, although Clement tends to be more Orthodox by later standards than Origen. Clement's writings are a fascinating look at early Christian thought in Egypt.<br />This is a very nice little book. It contains a decent sampling of Clement's shorter works, including 'To the Newly Baptized,' which is not available in the excellent Ante-Nicene Fathers set (although the evidence is still inconclusive as to whether Clement actually wrote the short treatise). &quot;Exhortation to the Greeks&quot; is a reasoned exposition designed to convince Greeks of the truth of Christianity using their own myths. &quot;Rich Man's Salvation&quot; discusses ways a rich person might be in the Church, despite Jesus' (and the early church's) condemnation of riches.<br />The translation is from around 1910, so its a little stilted, but readable, much like the text from the Ante-Nicene Set. The Greek text is present on the left side of the book and based on the newest manuscripts available at the time. There are textual notes and manuscript variant notes, but they are few, and not nearly as helpful as the notes of other Clement translations.<br />Overall this Loeb edition offers a good translation with Greek texts, giving something to the serious scholar and the simply curious.	2000-01-05
US	51997044	R3AK1MFELF2NV5	0195287010	261836833	The 1979 Book of Common Prayer, Personal Size Edition	Books	5	27	33	N	Y	Gives me Direction in my prayer / worship life	My title sums up what I like about the BOCP in general. The Book contains daily readings and prayers for virtually every occasion. I find that it keeps me focused and gives direction to my quiet times. The Daily Office is  a blessing. This edition (the hardback) is plain and simply beautiful.  There is so much included in this little book virtually every Christian  will find it valuable. Liberalism may have crept in slightly in this  edition (1979) but it is still very traditional.	2000-01-04
US	51997044	R3QKW9K8Q66BRY	0195290011	780014326	The Oxford Study Bible: Revised English Bible with Apocrypha	Books	4	6	20	N	Y	Nice Bible	This is a nice Bible overall. The translation is very clear (especially in the NT) and is beautiful in its wording. The liberal bias of the translators shows through (see Acts 20:28, see the note there) at times,  but it does not detract. The notes are few and for the most part not very  helpful, but are still worth reading, though another Bible like the NRSV  New Oxford would be much more helpful. I value this in my Bible collection  and get it out at times, but I would never make it my main Bible, whether  for worship or scholarly work.	2000-01-03
US	51997044	R2WVGXBSHHZQSY	0898702631	284030368	Fire Within: St. Teresa of Avila, St. John of the Cross and the Gospel-On Prayer	Books	5	72	78	N	Y	A How to Guide about being a Christian Mystic	This book is basically a How-to guide on how to be a Christian mystic, focusing on the writings and life of John of the Cross and Teresa of Avila. It is a very concise book, and is not light reading, but I enjoy that fact.  I highly recommend this book for the individual interested in deepening  their experiences with the Triune God.	2000-01-03
US	51997044	R2M32WNAAP26SJ	0064471195	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia Boxed Set	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Classic Series!	This, in my opinion, is one of the greatest series of books ever written. Even if you discard every aspect of Christian allegory the books are still well told, creative works. When one adds in the Christian allegory it  becomes an even deeper book with more meaning. Classics!	1999-11-09
US	51997044	R1J66CFPJAQPRI	0060655801	15902722	HarperCollins Study Bible: New Revised Standard Version (with the Apocryphal/Deuterocanonical Books)	Books	5	26	29	N	Y	Good Bible for use by All.	I really like this bible. The notes seem to be well balanced, though I lean toward a more orthodox understanding of scripture, I can still get a lot out of this Bible. The notes are concise and numerous. It has great  maps. While I would doubt my beliefs are always in line with the  annotators, I can still learn a lot from it and not lose faith in any way.  Oh yeah, the NRSV is perhaps one of the best translations available.	1999-11-08
US	51997044	R2X0Q88QAJ9D6R	0684823764	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A Must Read!	I rarely have the time or attention span to sit and read a book all the way through in one sitting! This book is the exception. I was interested and fascinated from page One till the end. This is probably one of Lewis'  best.	1999-11-08
US	51997044	R3ABJWFROIXY4J	0924722002	786978960	Will the Real Heretics Please Stand Up: A New Look at Today's Evangelical Church in the Light of Early Christianity	Books	5	12	16	N	Y	good book.	Bercot does a good job of summarizing what the early church believed, and passing the information onto us. He challenges the beliefs of many Christians today whose beliefs do not match up with what the Earliest  Christians believed. One only has to read the texts to know that, but  Bercot saves us that trouble. Bercott not only tells us what they believed  on such issues as Calvinism, but he gives scripture to back up the early  Christian beliefs, to show they didn't just come up with it out of thin  air. Its a very mind opening book. I must admit through my Bible reading I  came up with a lot of what the early Christians did--I believe the death  penalty is wrong, etc. But this book just goes to show that not going along  with Conservatism doesn't mean you aren't a Christian. Bercot makes a big  deal about Fundamentalist beliefs following Conservatism's tenets and not  vice-versa and I tend to agree. Overall a great book.	1999-11-08
US	51997044	R3TXDO2W0GQ00S	1565633571	737410466	A Dictionary of Early Christian Beliefs: A Reference Guide to More Than 700 Topics Discussed by the Early Church Fathers	Books	5	33	39	N	N	An excellent reference book for Christians!	This book essentially puts in dictionary form various beliefs and practices, and then has quotes by the Early Church writers regarding each issue. While the former reader saw this as an index of sorts to the excellent ante-Nicene Fathers 10 volume set (which I own), it can also  function autonomously. In fact I usually use it as a way of getting to what  the Bible actually says when the Bible isn't as clear as I would like to to  be. One instance is the issue of predestination and freewill which divides  many Christians to the point of exclusion. The Bible can be used to support  both views. By looking under freewill, one can find that the Early church  almost unanimously were freewill. There are great quotes showing the early  church was essentially Trinitarian, giving towards others, pacifists, and  took turning the other cheek literally. It is not the Bible, but is a good  way to know what those people who lived closest to Christ and the apostles  believed.	1999-11-08
US	51997044	R3ES8KNWMW8FSP	0199102066	107780535	An Intermediate Greek-English Lexicon: Founded upon the Seventh Edition of Liddell and Scott's Greek-English Lexicon	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Excellent!	This is perfect for any Greek student no matter what the year of learning. I find that it helps even in my first year of Greek to have a comprehensive Lexicon that is affordable.	1999-10-07
