US	51999163	R3JIW4OTSXDBGN	1890951390	596224648	Aby Warburg and the Image in Motion	Books	4	19	20	N	N	butterflies in the details	It is my hope there will be more such pleasing books and articles about Aby Warburg's life and works. M.'s book suffices to place the Florentine and Native American explorations of Warburg in context and in (usefully) anachronistic correspondance. The complete title promises an image in motion, though most of the images Warburg used for his work were static plates. Mightily, M. shows the energies of the figures--the reticulations and folds of serpents and veils--express the flash of a captured ecstatic movement that enthralled Warburg and echoes the Dionysian-pagan vision of Nietzsche.<br />The pursuit of iconography and quest for symbols and similar energies in art and ritual culture still remain prominent in the writing of working Warburgians. However, Warburg himself gains popularity now too among historians who find interest in his techniques (montage work and avoidance of narrative) and M. makes similar claims for Warburg's relevance to cinema and film theory.<br />Spanning biography, analysis, theory and history, this book is most handsomely produced (gorgeous b/w plates), utterly readable, and completely cogent.	2004-05-24
US	51999163	R2SHSEAR8S0G67	0374163782	837304052	Godard: A Portrait of the Artist at Seventy	Books	3	1	8	N	N	vulpecula venenata	The author of this book writes aptly about the cultural and political contexts that frame the life of its protagonist and particularly well about Godard's experiences on or around May 1968. MacCabe shows himself as almost totally sympathetic (yet not completely uncritical) to a relatively unpleasant subject. Perhaps, Godard is too private for compassionate emanations, perhaps the priveleged scope of this work stretched only to the opus of the film maker and not beyond, but there seems to be very little evidence of the delightful emotions that mark most lives in the life of this subject. Will the brilliance of the films outshine the unkind specter of the living artist? MacCabe writes very well on the evolution of Godard's techniques and fascinations. Godard works autonomously, vigorously and in daring fashion from the beginning. There is no doubt that Godard is an innovator and a believer in his style and visions.<br />It's just that the creator of the films doesn't seem to be the sort of person who endures either the scrutiny of a biographer or the acquaintance of people who are not cinematic savants well at all. That surprise though is hardly grounds for the criticism of the book or its subject by one who stands wholly uninjured by both.	2004-05-24
US	51999163	R28SV8G41ZHOCQ	0521006090	193278274	Heidegger's Later Philosophy	Books	4	4	6	N	N	weeding the garden near the dwelling of the guardian	Julian Young presents a sympathetic but not uncritical summary of Heidegger's later philosophy. Heidegger's, often maligned, late mystical or unintelligible musings are granted much benefit of the doubt. The book is surprisingly small and clear, given the number of articles and thoughts Heidegger produced long after his mid-maturity turning away. Among the major topics addressed are: metaphysics, technology, ecology, dwelling, and the guardian.  Young grants little context beyond the philosphical, at which he is adept, and provides few psychological insights concerning the changes and development of Heidegger's thoughts. (I suppose it is unfair to clamor for a synthetic appraisal Heidegger's politics and philosophical development from a book seeking to be a handy overview of thoughts not of a life.) This book resembles a map of Sicily that mentions and stars all of the attractions except for the fiery pit of Etna.	2004-02-09
US	51999163	R1YOGMJR0811QV	0691096740	187754721	Subjecting Verses: Latin Love Elegy and the Emergence of the Real	Books	3	7	11	N	N	wedding bells for theory	Blame:<BR>\\"Maitre, there seems to be a Symbolic in the Imaginary of my Real,\\" is a sentence that would not be entirely out of place in this book. The wedding of much theory (Jameson, Foucault, Lacan) is consonant with the bounty of citations philosopher Slavoj Zizek receives, seemingly more than any philologist who actually works on Roman elegy. It also seemed that fewer passages of poetry, but more selected words, received discussion than a more comprehensive study might merit, but the author does well to traverse the lifespan of the art and relate its habits to the concerns of the day. There are a couple of textual errors and one of the sources is cited in text without a bibliographical referent.<br />Praise:<BR>It's always time for someone to discuss the context from which the genre of love elegy emerged. Paul Allen Miller shares his fascination with this poetry that emerged suddenly, sparked, and then disappeared all within a period of fifty years or so. His interpretations and methods of reading elegy are generally smart, though I remain disappointed that some of the uncertainty concerning love elegy finds a kind of analytical resolution in the clarity of psychoanalytic discourse. The chapter on reading the poems of Tibullus is utterly fascinating. The introductory chapter cleanly exhibits the psychoanalytic terminology used throughout in such a way that most of the explanations that use it will be clear to those who don't read Ecrits for kicks. Other chapters provide encounters with Catullus, Propertius, the idea of Gallus, and Ovid.<br />The complexity of elegy Paul Allen Miller puts on glorious display. The argument that the ideologically split selves of poets in an uncertain age begat poems offering politically prismatic effects seems remotely analogous to Glenn Most's essay elsewhere on the rage for poetic dismemberment during the reign of Nero, in the sense that both authors consider the poets concerned to be keenly aware of the political and cultural trends of the age. The book was invigorating and frustrating for this reader, but on such an exciting topic the many hits may outnumber the misses.	2003-12-04
US	51999163	RH0PLXMBKO8ID	0826467245	542231424	Infinite Thought: Truth and the Return to Philosophy	Books	4	23	25	N	N	the essays	Here gathered is a diverse selection of writings from varied provenances, given as articles and talks. Together they don't exactly cohere, but that's hardly the point. Badiou is a potent writer and thinker. He campaigns for the primacy and universalim of truth in a clear fashion not seen from many continental philosophers. Perhaps, most exciting about Badiou's writings is that he considers them something along the lines of an intervention. He makes not philosophy for philosophy's sake but applies his acumen with the intent to persuade the reader: change your life (or at least your thinking)! Badiou's heroes and formulae make an odd collection  (Saint Paul, Mao, Lacan, Plato, Game Theory, set theory), so the introduction to the collection provides helpful context. One can find philosophical engagements with cinema, poetry, truth, psychoanalysis, politics, art, marxism, and terrorism, to name some topics; it's really a grab bag. As a volume, it's weaker than his manifesto, but it may be more accessible. Nonetheless, it makes worthy reading.	2003-11-24
US	51999163	R5K458Y5A9Y91	0674011929	707555499	Nero	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Now Playing: Nero	Champlin has written a delightful book about a troubled Caesar. As the current tends, the author glides much of the discussion of Nero into a course that resembles the sentence: that actor is the emperor whose performances are his politics. Nero's recognition of the real necessity for memorable spectacles as politcally provident does not separate him from other Caesars, however his rare compulsion to be the spectacle in its entirety does. Champlin works hard to identify the tainted strands of Nero's story and succeeds at separating some of the thoroughly tendentious traditions from the popular but less evident cheers for the better buildings and bigger spectacles he sponsored. It was exciting to learn of Nero's afterlife and of all those who expected his return in the fashion of some sort of ur-Elvis. <br />The book is tastefully written and compelling, particularly in its informative appraisal of the historians whose works mold most of the early modern and modern perceptions of this prince. Until his death, Nero sought to create a world that would correspond to his desires; Rome became his Golden Home and primary stage. Champlin reveals much about Nero and his world. This book overflows the boundary of biography to spread into the fields of performance, politics, popular reception, Roman religion, art and historiography. I heartily recommend it.	2003-11-14
US	51999163	R1UZYEZK499F3E	0674011465	703816595	Shakespeare, Einstein, and the Bottom Line: The Marketing of Higher Education	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Top Down	What an engaging book, neat anecdotes abound. Each chapter presents a case study of some kind to show the sorts of adjustments colleges and universities make to gain and maintain competitive advantage. Much has been written of the packaging of students for display and evaluation by university admissions committees. This book explores the opposite end. Kirp shows how NYU wooed the finest analytic philosophers money can buy in order to gain top students and international reputation, how many public universities are rethinking their commitments to their charter states as the tax-based funding dwindles, and how schools such as DeVry, Phoenix, and many two-year colleges now fill a niche offering IT certification, practical courses most universities choose to ignore.<br />One of my favorite chapters exhibits the cooperation of several small southern liberal arts colleges in an effort to maximize the utility of the internet and defy the complications of location to offer a world class education in the Classics. The chapter on the University of Chicago's efforts to market itself by emphasizing the rigors and intensity of its offerings at the expense of its reputation as a party school provides some humorous moments.<br />Kirp seems to know all of the people he needs to know to get the stories straight and compelling. From the brainstorming of catchy college name to the purchase of science departments by the funding dollar, public and private, Kirp explores the variety of decisions, the successes and failures of faculty involvement, and the remarkable institutional overhauls that occur while remaining solvent and functional.<br />Money changes everything for the college and university. It seems all institutions need more of it, yet Kirp shows how many schools and their leaders are able to adapt to the market without compromising everything of value. The book fascinates so because the institutional norm is an aberration and so much of the success of an institution in its upkeep depends on the personality of the place, its faculty, and alumni. Would that each endowment provided its school with enough to prevent it from having to hire the marketeers for the make-overs. I have never read a book such as this, one that combines the hurt and impetus of wanting money and reputation with the creative and curious ways approaching a fix.	2003-11-14
US	51999163	R1QICWLF7ME3DR	0300099584	865706142	Knowledge of Things Human and Divine: Vico's New Science and Finnegan's Wake	Books	4	7	7	N	N	corso encore	As a writer John Cage famously wrote through the Wake of James Joyce twice without having read it. Donald Phillip Verene shows how deeply dyed Joyce's last work is with Vico's writings and thoughts. Throughout the Wake, recyclings of Vico's work course in abundance, but course no longer in unremarked, cryptic puns, thanks to Verene's gleaning and showing. This book uses Joyce as a frame for Vichian hangings in a fashion that resembles Joyce's use of Vico; it's not for the sake of doctrine, but joy, that each informs on the other. Clearly, Verene concerns himself more with clarification and contextualization of Vico's life and works than Joyce's (to which he devotes a single, hearty chapter), however this Vico book itself is strong and its author's ability to plop a pitch of Joyce for every single passage of Vico proves dazzling. A hazardously detailed chronology relates the major events in the life of Vico. The bibliography proves a heavy bias in favor of Vico work with scant nod given to scholars of Joyce. I recommend this book to all who are willing to learn more about Vico than Joyce and to all who are willing to traverse much Joyce to learn about Vico.	2003-10-24
US	51999163	R3HJ3D0X03BWN7	0226317919	204989487	The Dominion of the Dead (Historical Studies of Urban America)	Books	5	38	46	N	N	nil nisi bonum	As could be expected, Robert Pogue Harrison presents a thoughtful and elegant meditation on remembrance and the power of the dead for the living. It is curious to see how many patterns the dead fashion for us in our care for them. Though versions of Heideggerian phenomenology and the philology of Vico inform threads of the argument, at no time does the poetic work find itself in a bog of theory for the sake of theory. Also pleasing for this reader is Harrison's willingness to traverse the exigencies of the moment and its hyperpatriotic upwellings, (so common and gauche over the last few years,) so he can dwell on the traditional and lasting relations the dead and the living maintain. The passages on Maya Lin's Vietnam Memorial resounded with an appropriately complex and awesome response. The argument's course runs through a dead realm with emphasis on Europe and the United States. Fruitful studies of the ancestral dead exist for Mayan and Chinese and Egyptian civilizations (to name a few), yet these do not fit the purview here. Such inclusion might have matured or at least ripened a western view on this mortal matter. I very much enjoyed this tour of thought through poetry, myth, memorial and monument. It does nothing if not enrich with shiny insights on the dead in our myths and lives.	2003-10-22
US	51999163	R2L8G9ECOS4MIT	0674012070	332571995	Lessons of the Masters (Charles Eliot Norton Lectures)	Books	3	14	24	N	N	passion play	A George Steiner book presents a certain source of excitement for me. This book collects the Norton Lectures Steiner gave on the relations between master and student, master and matter mastered, and masters and their ability to transmit mastery. Steiner's favorite familiar players Plato, Dante, Heidegger, Celan and Pessoa take various turns throughout the excogitations. The first two chapters, one on Plato and the other on Faustus, provided me with the most joy. I felt an odd sense of disenchantment in the chapter on native grounds, in which Steiner dissipates his energy on the American scene by discussing Knute Rockne and American football. This collection is necessarily selective. I imagine many others, though few as capable, would have chosen different masters and other relationships to discuss fruitfully. Steiner proclaims the essential validity of the face to face relations that can occur in a paedagogic setting of any sort and ubiquity of some form of erotics among the involved. Curious in their extended absences from the text are heroes Gertrude Stein and Ezra Pound who did much to teach at least one generation writing.	2003-10-03
US	51999163	R27XPK2D6OWBXU	1559706449	652887340	Happiness: A Guide to a Good Life, Aristotle for the New     Century	Books	2	5	13	N	N	whose virtues?	This transformed dissertation on Aristotle, by a long-practiced philosopher who has spent much of his life working with people with different handicaps had the potential to clarify Aristotle's valorization of happiness and at the same time show how happiness as an end in itself holds for every human being. The writing is clear and the examples drawn from contemporary life are particularly vibrant, but this book is not all about Aristotle. It seems to me that the author's vision has been informed more by his spiritual position than by his wrangling with Aristotle. The author is benevolent (benevolent, whose etymolgy is erroneously revealed in these pages) but he writes with the intent of applying Aristotle as a salve for the modern problems he finds most disastrous. Vanier writes best about Aristotle on the topics of desire and friendship. The rest of the book appears a conflation of many ideologies, with Aristole the minimum ingredient.	2003-06-13
US	51999163	R29NBRVZNPJ879	087480681X	521761581	Grave Goods	Books	5	4	4	N	N	succession succeeds	John P. O'Grady has written some igneously curious essays about ghosts and legends and forests and writers. He takes tremendous joy in sharing all the wonderful things he never learned in forestry school but has learned about forests. It is important to note that these essays are quite artful as they unravel or evolve. There is a sense that the stories are too complex, and topics too tangentially related to be unwound in front of a campfire without a map, but still they belong to the forests, of books and trees. Those interested in stories of American spaces will be tickled to find a grand range of locales, Maine, Roanoke, Idaho, New Jersey. O'Grady's undertaking is bonkers and engaging.	2003-06-12
US	51999163	R2C45FHSQ4GZ29	0226059685	222371206	The Anonymous Marie de France	Books	4	6	9	N	N	O lais	How wonderful to recieve an expertly guided tour through the corpus of Marie de France! Bloch writes in part to show the continuity of ideas and forms in the three works attributed to the twelfth century poet Marie de France. The Lais of Marie de France still receive attention in first year university humanities class. Bloch seems to reach a bit far in his effort to show Marie's &quot;obsession with language&quot;. Bloch pleasingly works through the fables and shows the educative value of talking animals as well as the political values they reflect. The final work Bloch addresses is Marie's Saint Patrick's Purgatory. Bloch's final chapter on discussing Ireland and the colonization of purgatory is absolutely fabulous. Bloch uses different methods (deconstructive criticism, psychoanalytical criticism, new historicism) to approach Marie's texts, but this diversely constructed philology creates some stunning results. There is much to admire in this new book by Bloch. I am convinced it will make extraordinarily useful reading for those interested in Marie de France or early French literature and history. Analysis of the poetry, rhythms,and forms is lacking, perhaps because such analysis matters not as much as Marie's and Bloch's obsession for language.	2003-06-03
US	51999163	R1IWEYH7NDPOPH	0812236815	653190043	Kingdom of Snow: Roman Rule and Greek Culture in Cappadocia	Books	5	11	11	N	N	dumbarton oaks	Raymond Van Dam by means of patristics has taken Cappadocia for his own with this excellent history. From the beginning Van Dam cites the need for scholars of early Christain fathers to push their knowledge and utility beyond the theological realm and into the arena of social history. In most of the chapters, Van Dam is able to narrate in impressive detail the battle of cultures and creeds in this province during the fourth century. He also reveals information on the quality of life of the Cappadocian lower classes by reading closely the petitions of Basil and Gregory of Nyssa. Each chapter does not always find fluid integration in the next, but the book as a whole expresses marvellous insight and understanding of the life in a border province, the fortification of a Christian ethical world, and the complex relations of Christian fathers with Roman emperors sharing varying degrees of Greek Culture. This volume stands as the first of three in what seems to be an refined and thoughtful historical enterprise.	2003-06-02
US	51999163	RSBC22T89PP6Q	0520231481	975384224	Sexual Ambivalence: Androgyny and Hermaphroditism in Græco-Roman Antiquity	Books	4	11	13	N	N	duals	Wispy and suggestive, this little book addresses the historical accounts, mythological examples and religious explanations of dual sexuality in the ancient world. This one is definitely not a treatise in current cultural studies, as the only authors cited are ancients. While Brisson does not stray from his historical task, the dearth of contemporary situational relevance, or comparison even, may be a weakness of the book. However, the accounts are insightful. The chapter on Plato's myth from the &lt;Symposium> concerning the dual-sexuality of original states is a strong one. Also a nice treat, Brisson presents discussion of the Chaldean Oracles and Orphic mysteries within the context of dual sexuality. The former topic in particular appears rarely in writing on general classical culture. Remarkable too, is the relation of early Roman and Etruscan reactions to these hermaphrodite prodigies. This clear little book serves up a handy collection and analysis of incidents, from which, perhaps, one can generalize not only about antiquity's perception of and reaction to sexual duals, but too the value of such dualism as a mythological or philosophical concept.	2003-05-23
US	51999163	R5LNGQQZXBMAS	0810942631	73351299	Roman Sex: 100 B.C. to A.D. 250	Books	5	77	80	N	N	fine assessments	The greatest injustice a potential reader of this book could commit would be to see it as merely a handsomely illustrated presentation volume. As John R. Clarke writes in the introduction to this work, it presents a more adequate synthesis and overview of the findings and researches he has pursued on Roman sexuality over the last two decades or so. The essay, a series of discrete chapters, reveals the finest descriptions of Roman sexuality informed by the analysis of ceramic, fresco, and engraved art. <br />Most clever about Clarke's approach, similar in this respect to his earlier, more site-specific work, is the emphasis put on the interpretation of the artworks by recreating what Roman viewers would look for and find. Roman taboo and Roman prescriptions for the realm of sex differ profoundly from ours and Clarke explicitly draws the distinctions. He explains the narratives on the Roman walls with convincing acuity.<br />Images from Pompeii figure prominently here. Still, the author has also sought out and discusses more recent findings from Roman France as well as special items that seem finally ready to be shared by their keepers in private collections and museum holding rooms in Switzerland.<br />Clarke imaginatively and convincingly tries to set the images and objects of art into their original contexts. For example, the images of the Suburban Baths at Pompeii according to the author depict positions and situations that would induce laughter from Roman bathers, male and female alike, thus warding off the evil eye. I am not convinced that a frequent bather would continue to find the same fresco images comical and therefore a protection, but Clarke's understanding of Roman sexuality is stunning and gracefully communicated.<br />For those who wish to read a beautiful exposition of Roman intimate pursuits and daily encounters with the erotic, I recommend this book highly.	2003-05-23
US	51999163	R3APTMZ1QGACYU	080284913X	761378297	Religions of the Hellenistic-Roman Age	Books	5	8	8	N	N	adding only	I would like to add to the two reviews written earlier, only that this work makes available for introductory students an intelligent skimming of the surface of religions of the Hellenistic-Roman period. This period description is crucial as it refers not exclusively to the traditional span of the Hellenistic Age from 323 B.C.E. to 31 B.C.E., but from the death of Alexander the Great to the fourth century of the common era. This recalibration nearly doubles the space under review and as a result allows or requires that most of the book addresses the early Jewish diaspora and the early Christian religion. <br />The author handles each religion or way of life relatively well, clarifying with polish and style the major characteristics, rituals and contexts of the belief systems. New ideas are not the order of business here, instead this concise summary fills a need. <br />Approximately thirty pages cover all of the \\"mystery cults\\" (Isis, Magna Mater, Dionysus, Demeter), with a separate chapter given to Mithraism. What I mean to suggest is that the gross majority of the work summarizes the information available about the beginnings of religions that remain, however changed, not those earlier religions of the Mediterranean that have disappeared. For me the lack of attention to the religions of the Greek and Roman landscapes proved a disappointment, but the book is of exemplary quality as it is for what it is.<br />A final note: the maps are truly outstanding.	2003-05-19
US	51999163	R2RHEP5UYZY8S4	0801823048	946644009	The Ancient City: A Study on the Religion, Laws, and Institutions of Greece and Rome	Books	5	8	12	N	N	on history now of history	Fustel de Coulanges describes a society that I found incredible. How could it be the case that a healthy society found itself founded solely under the patriarchal power of each family's pater? The pressure of such a state seems stifling. The father carried out the priest function for each family's hearth gods. A grander appreciation of the religion of the land led to city-making and laws. However, the father's grasp remained for a long time invincible, unquestionable.<br />After Fustel de Coulanges establishes the city, its laws, its religion and its constituent parts, the family, it undergoes a series of revolutions. These revolutions create a diminishing of the father's power and of the priest's singular authority, while simultaneously generating a partly enfranchised lower class and, to a certain extent, individual rights.<br />As the preface of Arnaldo Momigliano points out, there is no resolution to the paradox of the ancient city. Fustel de Coulanges seems to idealize the Arcadian piety of the earliest family groups and their persistent worship, while at the same time valorizing the rights of the individual and cessation of caste-like limitations rampant in the Mediterranean world.<br />This history magnificently documents change. Certain shifts will seem abrupt (from the Roman Empire to Christianity in four pages), certain absences notable (there is little discussion of Alexander in Greece's history, despite such early ecumenicalism), however the might and seductive nature of the narrative make thoughtfully provoking history.<br />Fustel de Coulanges has begun his history with terms such as sacred fire, ancestor worship, land, gods, family, city, law, and revolution to document changes that we can recognize. This book seems a little like a &quot;Decline and Fall&quot; of sacred institutions rather than political entities. I do not think that this work provides a mirror of the Greek and Roman city, but I think readers will leave it without disappointment and full of admiration from the creation wrought by the author's intuition and knowledge of ancient sources. The whole thing is spectacular.	2003-05-19
US	51999163	R1KX3J7Q3TCFLS	0674618769	630241980	New Worlds, Ancient Texts: The Power of Tradition and the Shock of Discovery	Books	4	13	15	N	N	overseas overviews	Not the most stunning or innovative of Professor Grafton's works, <New Worlds, Ancient Texts> makes a sweeping review from the expectations held by the world of humanists received from Greek, Latin, and Arabic forerunners to the explosion and expansion of these expectations due to America's discovery. Grafton is a smooth and engaging writer, who can bind the vast realms of his study into fine sentences and clear argumentation.<br />The text consists of five chapters, intermittent miniature biographies of more interesting or less frequently known players, and luxurious black and white reproductions of images and manuscripts of the age. The text runs its course and neither references the small biographies nor acknowledges the handsome illustrations. It is very possible that one will skip over these images as accessory to follow the sweep of the author's narrative, only to revisit them later. Sweeps and anecdotes describe the nature of the investigation rather than patient analysis of sites and sights. This book seems to share only the prettiest berries plucked from Grafton's years as a tender of the tree.<br />This book more than adequately accounts for the changes in European thought on account of the discovery not just of new lands, but of new worlds, new diseases, drugs, and, as important, the discovery of the limitations of many ancient texts. Again, Grafton is beguiling, informative and masterful at his craft. <New Worlds, Ancient Texts> will be equally welcome reading for those who enjoy the period and those who wish to find a compelling way to enter it.	2003-05-19
US	51999163	RLONTKO0QPL47	0299073548	680434768	The American Jeremiad	Books	4	22	29	N	N	consensus point	Sacvan Bercovitch has written a thrilling book not only about  early American history (e. g., the Puritain errand in the wilderness) but also about tendencies of American civil discourse. The analysis of history is rhetorical and there is little beyond the dating of the documents that suggests there is more to the writing of history than textual analysis. For some this emphasis will be a strength, for others a profound weakness of the work. <br />Whatever one's opinion of the approach, the outcome is spectacularly suggestive. The work provides something like a study of the form that the expression of the American dream has taken since the beginning. Most of the discussion concerns the iron exhorations of early American religious leaders. The jeremiad exists in America and seems inseparable from communication of the American people's greatest desire. The jeremiad, since it is a form or perhaps even a genre is not only durable but mutable, applicable to seemingly all realms of American discourse.<br />I heartily recommend this perceptive little book to those curious about American discourse and the shared form that religious, political and cultural concerns take.	2003-05-12
US	51999163	R2C12SP7PMCC4H	0801803470	346392982	From the Closed World to the Infinite Universe (Hideyo Noguchi Lecture)	Books	4	12	16	N	N	the european colloquy for all time and space	Readers of this book beware, its themes are huge! It contains lucid narrative of the competition from Cartesians to Newtonians for the best model of the universe and the nature of time and space. There are scarcely any baggy corners into which the reader will turn unwillingly. However, there is not terribly much about the science or the methods of discovery employed by these thinkers in their shared pursuit of important results. Koyre has written a classic study of intellectual history. Discussion of divinity and its aspects is abundant because this presence was one that the scientists were working diligently to situate without offending the authorities and employers of the age. The universe is a source whose study has profoundly metaphysical and ontological implications. Koyre brings these alive for the reader and shares the tumult of ideas that produced much of what we consider now to be a satisfactory vision of the universe.	2003-05-11
US	51999163	R210OS47BG8P38	0231067070	643747854	Black Sun	Books	4	30	31	N	N	Billy Us	Kristeva's &lt;Black Sun&gt; is definitely worth a read. While staking a claim for the salubrious effects of psychoanalysis, the author freshly details art's engagement with melancholy and depression. The first chapter or two will make rough going for the reader who is not amused by the lexicon of psychoanalysis. But even readers with a literary intolerance of that sort will find the third chapter on feminine depression sensitively written and thoughtfully invested with human presence. The chapters on art and artists with melancholia make generally excellent reading. The most brief of the chapters, &quot;Beauty: The Depressive Other's Realm,&quot; provides a soaring inauguration of the author's poetic and psychoanalytic approaches to the madness and melancholia among Durer, Nerval, Dostoevsky, and Duras. The chapter on Duras might not bear a discussion of an author familiar to American readers but it is worth reading because it alone of the chapters explicity raises questions concerning politics, expectations, madness and depression. The author investigates the sites she has chosen with great sensitivity and radiant intellect. Scattered clouds will be apparent to those who find psychoanalysis an unsatisfying or capricious methodology of investigation.	2003-05-10
US	51999163	RIIXRU1RJHHR9	1584652209	44703336	Atlantic Poets: Fernando Pessoa’s Turn in Anglo-American Modernism (Reencounters with Colonialism: New Perspectives on the Americas)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	a bridge for ivory towers not white castles	Perhaps the towering anticipation and immense joy experienced while purchasing a book on two powerful poets, Pessoa and Crane, caused me to endure a let down of sorts while reading it. The discussion of the poets together as well as the discussion of their individual poems proved sharp. But, the author has spent much effort, too much to my liking, trying to situate the discussion of all of Pessoa and Crane as well as the methods of comparison and analysis among the diverse ridges and plurality of valleys of literary and cultural criticism. <br />The book is useful to be sure, but there is so much to be ignored as an excrescent carapace willing itself rather unnecessisarily to the bodies of poets who not only lived without it, but also employed far more piercing modes of definition and discussion in their own works. <br />It is possible that other readers also will find these chapters try hard to justify themselves. No justification was necessary. These poets share a remarkable amount with respect to their attitudes, efforts, and poetic forms. The author is perceptive and had the opportunity to write a stunning appreciation of an Atlantic bound by the poems of Pessoa and Crane. The author chose instead to define a literary category (Anglo-American Modernism) and write just as much for a diverse camp of literary theorists as for Pessoa and Crane loyalists. I feel an opportunity has been missed, other readers may not share this sentiment considering some of the book's bright analyses.	2003-05-10
US	51999163	R31S542O01INPW	1564782794	638288878	Passages (British Literature Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	dusky meanderings of midday	My goodness, this book frightens me. The madness of the characters in this novel blankets me with edginess and discomfort. In this novel the madness is most damaging and terrifying in a way that madness described by Gogol or Dostoevsky, more absurd and existentially recognizable, is not. I cannot say if Quin's version is more accurate or less, but I will say that her version portrays some profound debilitation.<br />The sex resembles what a D. H. Lawrence fond of whips might devise, however the scripting is unique to Quin. Fragmentation wins the day in the prose and narrative of this novel. One is required to span the gaps of comprehension as well as one can. I found the approach rough going. There is much to be admired here though, the trickery with dreams and journals, the search for another and the unwinding of a self, the curious setting intermittently recognizable.<br />I remain enthralled by this writer but I find I almost need to turn aside squeamishly as I read through the violence and despair. There is absolutely nothing about the madness or haunting of the self to be romanticized or envied, but for its communication, some obscure hoorays I exspire.	2003-05-05
US	51999163	R20LBWZL0XCHCA	0691049866	802022142	What Is World Literature? (Translation/Transnation)	Books	3	22	28	N	N	question raised	The author of this essay, a series of chapters trying to define a literary category, is smart and writes engagingly in witty and clear prose for an academic. I recommend this book because it holds several strong chapters on translation and politics of publishing. But, despite best efforts, the titular question remains addressed in unsatisfying fashion. It seems there is so much to say about the politics of reception and lack of reception, about the politics of literary influence and trade, that the book contains less about literature than one might desire from such a well-read guide. Good sense needs no method, but here, in spite of some good sense the author has chosen curiously, eccentrically, the texts with which to make his discussion. The common qualities that bind the chapters pertain more to the context of readers, editors, and occasionally writers. Greaer balance must be achieved. There is too little discussion of the literature itself. Surely, it is too blandly limiting to consider world literature merely a mark of consumer culture and national expectations for others, the literature remaining nearly at all times secondary to the category. Only some scattered anecdotes will lead readers to understand the cause of the author's dedication to literature and comparatism.<br />The range of the author is admirably broad. It is possible readers of this book will come away with a burning desire to read a book or author mentioned by Damrosch. The bibliography given is remarkably trim for such an undertaking. It seems to me that this book adopts more of the literary discourse concerning the relation of power and knowledge in the formation of literature than the philological attention characteristic of an academic tradition that has been comparing languages and national literatures for centuries (granted, rarely having addressed the question Damrosch approaches). Though the author floats Auerbach's &lt;Mimesis&gt; in and out of his discussion as an exemplar of an earlier attempt to give definition to the idea of world literature (even if drastically limited that author's own expertise in the languages of Europe), a &lt;Mimesis&gt;, this book is not, and to be fair, did not intend to be.<br />The best discussions, I felt, concerned Gilgamesh, early Egyptian poems, and Rigoberta Mench/u. In the end, the definition made for world literature seems a general and useful point of departure for authors of better books to come on the topic.	2003-05-04
US	51999163	R32J4V0F53W4VJ	1582431337	34638107	This Is Not a Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	leer life	One assumes that fans of David Markson's work will not be too disappointed by this latest book. I was not, though I admit I prefer his other writings to this. The book is structured as a sequence of sentences, often anecdotes describing the creative habits and deaths of an artistic pantheon. Sure, some will consider the book pretentious, but part of its glory is the effort of the writer, the central character, if any, who seems to be more of a reader, Markson, perhaps, and who puzzles and tries to be reconciled with his own impending mortality. Aside from the bounty of names, here and there an uncommon star appears, this book takes less cleverness to resolve into a thoughtful experience than other Markson books. Most dazzling, to be sure, is the variant structure of declarative sentences, often taken for granted. Some structures are continued repetitively, others, strikingly, challenge the rhythm the reader establishes. The sequences have the potential to mesmerize the patient and weary the rushed.<br />Out of all of the books, anecdotes, and sentences a character of sorts appears, who is not terribly interesting, nor completely capable of engaging the world without thinking through reading. The book is filled with curiosities that will jog to recollection details from a life spent reading. For some it is important to criticize what this book is not. Certainly, the style and approach to the writing of this book does not differ radically from the author's others. Perhaps this one is more refined. Perhaps it is repetitive and parodic. I prefer to recommend its observant and playful stories and structures that emerge from the sentences.	2003-04-21
US	51999163	R7VMIDCJ4LNY7	1566562481	181833405	The Gardens of Light (Interlink World Fiction)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	flower resplendent	Maalouf's glorious novel vivifies the age and the mind of the prophet, Mani. The Roman Empire is weak. Persian kings are intermittently strong. The deserts, oases, gardens, roads and cities brim with the excitements of new ways of thinking and new ways of living. Christianity, Buddhism, Zoroastrianism, the followers of Mani, and other communities of shared belief, vie not just for converts, but for existence. <br />Military power, Roman or Persian, will nurture only a faith conducive to a perpetuation of that power. The thought of Mani, gloriously, fosters universal tolerance of belief and worship, in a world obsessed with the dominance and mastery of one, one power, one faith, one way. Those who create the powerful seem as crookedly straight as those who bear the power. Mani has concerns greater almost than power.<br />This novel portrays a tremendously vivid and vital world of merchants, kings, priests, powers and places. Maalouf admirably ranges the Mediterranean and Middle East and with his central character, Mani, (portrayed sympathetically but not over-indulgently so) aims not for mass conversion but for understanding and education. The fluctuation in support that Mani receives from his most powerful admirers seems to genuinely express the fickle nature of the relationship that exists between wisdom and power.<br />Maalouf has authored a fine historical novel that avoids at all times plodding plotting and tedium. With plausible characters, relationships, ideas, and a clear appreciation for the subject, the author has made this novel an opportunity for a meaningful reading experience of high quality.	2003-04-21
US	51999163	R3NEPZMKCEG0M7	0268038732	81842100	Petrarch's Guide to the Holy Land: Itinerary to the Sepulcher of Our Lord Jesus Christ	Books	5	4	4	N	N	weentsy travelogue	This volume is completely gorgeous. The editor, Theodore Cachey, Jr., has written an insightful introduction to the letter of Petrarch, situating both the text and its reception within the tradition of travel writings. The majority of Petrarch's letter describes Italian tours rather than the Holy Land. The letter itself is a marvellous description of a tour, replete with poetic, religious, and mythological citation, that Petrarch was invited to make but opted out of on account of a fear of sea-sickness. Included in the volume on the left side of each page is a reproduction (photographed, I assume) of Latin script of the &quot;Itinerary&quot; from 1358 (not by Petrarch's own hand, however). Below these handsome brown reproductions is a smaller and clearer version of the Latin in the reproductions. Facing, on the right side of each page, is a bright translation of the Latin letter. It is marvellous to behold the careful and thorough nature of a text that is often considered a minor work. Surely, it is small, but delightful too. The final section of the volume includes ample annotation of the text and a list of Petrarch's works.	2003-04-08
US	51999163	R28YUWEFUJ9CBH	0472108891	925716922	Metamorphosis of Language in Apuleius: A Study of Allusion in the Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	golden arches	This book of allusion in the <Metamorphoses> of Apuleius supplies intelligent discussion of some fruitful scenes and tries to sketch a framework of methodologies of approaching allusion, influence and imitation in ancient literature. The second chapter on parody and the fourth chapter on the narrator as a liar, allusions to Sinon, are the two I found most coherently informing. The primary strength of this book is the application of the author's close reading and well of intelligence. Finkelpearl illuminates specific points of departure (primarily Vergil and Ovid) for Apuleius' own fabulous transformations. Another strength, surely a sign of wisdom on the part of the author, also makes for an absence of note in my reading. I am speaking of a lack of consistent theoretical approach to allusion. It is perhaps the case that each author uses other texts differently, sui generis in every case. However, the collection of methods and approaches to allusion, intertextuality, imitatio, influence seems to be without a guiding principal, aside from situational efficacy. In this case, Finkelpearl by carrying a very large toolbox, on the whole, seems to approach each textual situation with the appropriate tool.	2003-03-31
US	51999163	R1TKE58CTM0XX	0415928125	743602435	Enjoy Your Symptom!: Jacques Lacan in Hollywood and Out	Books	4	14	17	N	N	elevator music piped upwind	Clarity of language and argument one finds, some feel, rarely in current theoretical writing or in psychoanalytic writing. Here Zizek has structured his book so that nearly every idea gets two chances to impress the reader. I would agree with one of the reviews on this site of another of Zizek's books, that the author writes more clearly and persuasively about politics than about culture. However, this book presents a pleasing mixture (as most of Zizek's books do) of the cultural, political, philosophical, and Lacanian munch. <br />Each chapter sets out to answer a question posed by the chapter heading (e.g., Why is Reality Always Multiple?). First Zizek approaches a solution or description of the problem as it appears in Hollywood films. These Zizek treats as texts or case studies. Whatever your opinion of the merits of psychoanalytic description for general use, the discussion of the films makes marvellously amusing reading. As demanding for this reader as the steep range of theoretical vocabulary employed is the ample library of films from which Zizek draws his examples. Many of which films I'd never seen. The second section of each chapter recasts the first approach through film in the language, theory and realm of analysis, theory and philosophy.<br />I cannot weigh in an estimation of the value of this book. Surely, it is not as profoundly useful or clear as Zizek's political and philosophical thriller, Ticklish Subject. Yet, the application of Zizek's critical arsenal to Hollywood without the baggage of Politics and History, makes room for exposition through, sad to say, a universal and more immediate medium.	2003-03-27
US	51999163	R1T1Q3BITHE93V	185984670X	942990753	Edward Said: Criticism and Society	Books	3	2	6	N	N	better served	It is a fact one would be better served reading Said rather than this book. Even the author of this book must likely vouch for such. Herein however, Hussein has patiently parsed and related the strands and materials from which Said works. The volume is clear to be sure, but lacks the polished prose and sparkle of its subject. This work does not review the life course of its subject. Rather, it reviews the works of the author, influences and arguments, aesthetic and political. For the most part Abdirahman Hussein writes of his subject with approval that at moments appears to be gushing. It is generally a disappointment that there are not more works of this nature and as a result of such puzzling paucity, this volume proves pleasing. Edward Said's work compels intellectuals to engage themselves politically and ideologically. As a result of a lacking synthesis or presiding theoretical bent in Said's work, some may conclude that it comes less thoughtfully produced. Mr. Hussein does well to clearly demonstrate that Edward Said's critical might and blight stem from the acute care he brings to his site specific interpretation of texts and situations. As curious and losing as it sounds, Hussein shows Said at work cultivating reason and taste while showing the world too often subdued and framed by something other than reason.	2003-03-25
US	51999163	RPA9X33AZGB6R	0226042782	863507330	Encounters and Reflections: Conversations with Seth Benardete	Books	4	17	17	N	N	learning fan	Two parts make this book. In the first part Benardete shares memories of his youth and family, education and professional preparation, friends and colleagues. This section is gossipy in the best of ways concerning the climate and personalities that made the University of Chicago and Harvard such dynamic places of learning during the last four decades or so. Bloom, Strauss, Grene, Rorty, Bellow, Dardan, Steiner, Rosen are some of the names named at the U of C alone. I loved reading that student members of the Committee for Social Thought pursued grand projects and perused authors in the voluminous reading time they were granted, allowing many to develop profoundly thick or curiosly sharp lenses with which to scrutinze the world. Benardete peppers most accounts with humour and sharp descriptions. I enjoyed to the Rolls Royce Road Trip.<br />The second part of the book presents formulation of the ideas and opinions that Benardete developed during his productive career as a scholar and teacher. The most frequently engaged authors are Plato and Homer, but the author smears the canon of classical works with his thoughts. I cannot say I am convinced by or necessarily in agreement with many of Bernardete's idiosyncratic readings, but I remain dazzled by the cleverness and intensity of the author's talent as a reader and interpreter of ancient writings. <br />The second part of the book is surely richer and more likely to engender rereading. The first part makes for excellent mind candy. On the whole the volume nicely circuits the career of Benardete, who seems to have been an admired teacher and thoughtful scholar. Funny and light, heavy and thoughtful, this book resembles its author.	2003-02-26
US	51999163	R11DX6NHK7C0BT	0807064130	490733350	The Poetics of Reverie: Childhood, Language, and the Cosmos	Books	4	14	17	N	N	spindle spun	Bachelard's book on reverie wonderfully explores the space that looms somewhere in between wakefulness and dream. Reverie is a form of consciousness that departs from the words of poets and then grows. Each section of this essay refines or sketches further some of the liminal suggestions of the author. Some of these excursions resonate more sensibly than others of course, but all of the chapters thoughtfully meditate on a placid and exciting state. I do not think the second section on the significance of word gender is terribly fruitful, since gender is a grammatical rather than semantic property, but even such meanderings around and slight abuses of traditional understandings leads to some joyful venues and phenomenal considerations. A book need not be useful to be pleasant. This book has a mite of the former quality and a might of the latter quality.	2003-02-24
US	51999163	R2J3JJT0OZJHKH	0874173477	536604483	The Wild and the Domestic : Animal Representation, Ecocriticism, and Western American Literature	Books	4	2	3	N	N	effulgent effluvia of earth	It is not often, in my experience, one has the opportunity to say, \\"I read the most sharply fascinating book about cows this past weekend.\\" Not that I said this sort of thing after reading this book, but I could have. Barney Nelson performs at minimum two premier services for her readers. First, she reopens the cow case, teasing into gray complexity the traditional assignation of cows to the realm of domestic beasts. Second, Nelson continues a rehabilitation of fame for the early twentieth century writer of the West, Mary Austin.(This rehabilitation comes at the expense of John Muir over the issue of sheep herding and lambing.) Truly, after reading this book I think it is curious that the remarkable Austin is in need of reputation refurbishment in American letters. <br />The glory continues with the author adding a raucously noble essay on her own life. Nelson also contributes a fine essay on Ed Abbey's reading and suggested usage of Mary Austin's desert book. At last, I mention the political concerns churned up by Nelson's hearty ploughing. Much about land management, grazing rights, and habitat change finds sensible reappraisal. I do not have the expertise or experience to evaluate the suggestions of the author on this matter, but I find her suggestion of interest, that the government policies based on the research programs of some scientists are quite possibly informed by an erring sense of healthy land use and a mistaken foundational origin for the data they interpret. Overall, this book of essays wafts thoughtful chips into the air with relatively little theoretical marsh.	2003-02-24
US	51999163	R38O3712T08FB4	0195116828	973683157	The Solace of Fierce Landscapes: Exploring Desert and Mountain Spirituality	Books	4	25	25	N	N	devastating desolation	What a curious book this one is, joining three main narrative threads: spiritual journals of the author's experiences in desolate terrains, emotional journals of the author's mother's protracted and painful death, and historical chronicles of monastic places and practices. The candor, humility, and knowledge of the author is everywhere evident. Lane has as deep an awareness of theological writings as he has passionate appreciation for some fine desert writers (neither naturalists nor ecologists fits them better). I cannot say every page of this book provided easy going or smooth engagement, but that can hardly be said to be the point of the book. The author mentions the relative ordinariness of the lives of those who seek spiritual focus in these places. The ordinariness of these lives makes the strange ferocity of the surrounding landscapes more portentous. I came to this book seeking description of the fierce landscapes and was rewarded. The rest of the book made for bracing enrichment of the sort I can't say I commonly read (grief memoirs & theology).	2003-02-21
US	51999163	R3KQ6SC30Y3H53	0819565806	749592529	Lavish Absence: Recalling and Rereading Edmond Jabès	Books	5	7	7	N	N	awash in a gift	Rosmarie Waldrop presents small, various accounts of the relationship she has had with the French poet Edmond Jabes. The relationship is manifold for her as she recounts, first as a poet and reader, then as a translator and friend to Jabes. These sparks of recollection accumulate unpredictably and gently. <br />Waldrop generously shares her intelligent courses of reading Jabes, her nearly vertiginous trials, translating the rhythms and puns of his books, as well as some amusing events and anecdotes about the life of the poet. Of course, Jabes is not present on account of such a mixture of sharings, but Waldrop's book enriches one's idea of Jabes. It is most difficult to find an assemblage as rich about Jabes' life and work in English, let alone one as touching and pleasant. I read this book in an evening and found myself popping all about, in the notes seeking the French versions of the poetry translated in the text, the bibliography out back, and front again to review a joke or echo of sentence at hand.<br />In addition to the pleasure one might have reading about the Jabeses and their milieu, this book may be welcomed for its candid discussion of translation, its goals and methods. Some of Waldrop's solutions to vexing passages are ingenious and exciting. <br />There are very few books of this nature. Illuminating translator's tales are rare and rarer still are the anecdotal sharings of the translator's interactions and impressions of her source. I recommend this book highly to those with an interest in Edmond Jabes, poetry after WWII, translation or writers in exile. It also allows part of the author's own life to develop in front of the poetry on view.	2003-01-13
US	51999163	R22MW5XOTYSWUI	0889104948	669595370	Unreasonable Hours (Passport Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	truly jarring stories	For this tiny volume of stories, I feel most of all a frequent hunger to reread. This collection provides a fine introduction to Cortazar's writing, for those who do not want to dive into Hopscotch or The Blow-Up without evidence of the author's skill to turn tales. There are two stories in this volume that I utterly love. The one presents a rather twisted world of the late high school or early university years. Two brave students seek their teachers after hours and gain access to a nearly diabolical cabal. The characters uneasily force reactions to the curious, new circumstances. The other story, hauntingly memorable for me, I would rank among my favorite short stories. The violence of street gangs and political malcontents overlaps with the domestic life of a family attempting to nurse one of its own out of a coma. The boundary shared by the private and political in these stories is subtly and subversively sketched. The importance of some stability and justice in both realms, despite the incursions of the irrational and unjust, Cortazar communicates thoughtfully within stories that do not for a second wink disingenuosly or evoke the repugnance that some more abrasively political fictions and less gloriously delightful might.	2002-12-19
US	51999163	R1TL2KE4DM9NNS	1852421843	925473845	The Witness (Masks)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	the new world overrun	There are several books to which this one may be compared. I do not know which comparison will resound usefully for readers of this review but such framing may help clarify the nature of The Witness. It resembles in its adventures at sea and semiotic ambages, Eco's The Island of the Day Before. It obliquely resembles in its conclusion, some of the theatrical circumstances of Unsworth's Morality Play. In its approach to a group of people encountered by Europeans, it resembles writings of Levi-Strauss, or anthropologists and mythographers of his ilk. These comparisons may not entirely indicate the quality of description in many sections of this book, nor the entrancing tale told by a young man whose voice testifies to his survival for some time as an outsider in a most curious and vibrant new world culture. The book has sexy parts and bucolic parts, character-driven excitements and pleasing resolutions to momentarily intractable mires, cannibalism and monasticism. On the whole it is a fabulously enchanting and improbable survivor's tale anachronistically enriched by wanderings in some of the many-mirrored halls of late twentieth century, French intellectualism.	2002-12-19
US	51999163	RCOOXNEQ68HZ9	0801861284	973105183	The Riddle of Nostradamus: A Critical Dialogue (Parallax: Re-visions of Culture and Society)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	well of reading	Few books offer such depth and marvelous furrows for the revistation of some gravid ideas. Perhaps the author is too clever. Dumezil's lifetime is thick with learning, teaching and casting solutions to problems of Indo-European language, myth and culture. The handsome book holds two parts, both framed in dialogue. The first part meditates on the interpretation of some of the verses and prophecy of Nostradamus. If one can show that the prophecy itself is accurate by marshalling the linguistic and historical evidence so convincingly that no other interpretation of the words seems valid, prophecy cannot be entirely wrong, even if it cannot be reproduced as scientific practices require, the dialogue seems to suggest. Perhaps there is excitement for some to consider the connection between the prophecy and its signified event, occurring at a remove of centuries. The disputants combat one another over the correct punctation, syntax, and maniacal (nearly Oulipian) effects that Nostradamus (may have) produced. After the text has been fixed, historical comparisons can be made, once unhelpful skepticism has been dispatched. It's all very exciting in my opinion. The foreward suggests that the book is as much about methods and the author's own life as it is about Nostradamus. Knowing little else about the author himself, I would pretend to agree; for there is much that seems too sensitive to contrive and much that seems indifferent to the portentous parts of Nostradamus. <br />The smart and gentle dialogue may lead one to long for a teacher and friends of similar inclination in order to pursue a secret or double life for the discussion of things that really don't find fruitful manifestation in society at large. The second, smaller part of the book is a meditation on the meaning of Socrates' last words. This book is not a must read, but it is a delight that vicariously pleasured this reader with the abilities of sophisticated reading and delusions of humanist grandeur.	2002-12-18
US	51999163	R3NA0HBUMX19WZ	0375504850	640272356	After Nature	Books	4	9	10	N	N	noontime lucubration	Indeed, the poetry of this volume does mesmerize. I agree with the first reviewer above. However, it is a tremendous disappointment and disservice to poetry readers that the fine translations remain unaccompanied by the poems in German. For this reason the volume itself deserves a lower mark, but the poetry is enchanted and needs to be read. <br />The poems encourage lingering and mindful meditation on the natural world and on our abilities and means to apprehend it. Not all in this Arcadia is idyllic. The poems recall for me the mood of some of Vergil's bucolic poems (lines from Eclogue I serve as an epigraph to the final section) and resemble, at times, less intensely infused metaphysical quests, along the lines of Eliot's Quartets. It would be a pity to miss reading these poems. It would have been splendid to have them shining from the page opposite their original German forms.	2002-11-01
US	51999163	RRY7XZ1OUJFJ5	0892413441	973302743	Bradley's Arnold Latin Prose Composition	Books	5	32	32	N	N	old and good	Bradley's Arnold Latin prose compostion reaches for an audience it rarely receives nowadays. The book is so useful and completely solid, especially for Latin teachers who wish to improve their ability to communicate how it is that certain sentiments can be expressed in Latin. In addition to succinct review of concepts that start at a rather basic level, exercises are included. Towards the end of the book, whole excercises in prose that most closely resembles a Caesarian idiom, are included for practice. This book is the best I know of for teachers who wish to be able to teach certain Latin language concepts. Even if one chooses not to adopt certain approaches for teaching, a good deal of the summary and reinstruction remains unsurpassed and invaluable for those who wish to put a polish on already developed Latin skills. This book serves as an excellent shelf mate to Allen and Greenough's New Latin Grammar.	2002-09-26
US	51999163	R1N69K0GT23IS5	1566564174	873384249	The Bleeding of the Stone (Interlink World Fiction)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	tradition and greed meet	A short novel here presents the dilemma of Asouf, the main character, whose bedouin sensibility (if one can say that) gives him not only great reverence for the life of the Libyan desert but also occult knowledge of it. Asouf is sought for knowledge of the secret wealth of the desert and he must decide whom to trust and how to react to these irrationaly gesticulating men who seek something they show evident disdain for, or at least a lack of respect for. The novel resembles in length and profundity certain of Ismail Kadare's novels. Al-Koni creates a stirring story with an almost-credible protagonist (though this does not seem entirely important here) whose dilemma is heavy and real, though unusually intimate. The solution is mythically dazzling and almost allows one to continue in good cheer despite the ubiquitous current of a slightly victorious greed.	2002-09-22
US	51999163	R1VH7QWLWVIJ58	0803270291	915329198	Palimpsests: Literature in the Second Degree (Stages)	Books	3	11	18	N	N	there it is	I enjoyed the discussion of intertextuality and parody in this book but remain entirely underwhelmed by the taxonomy of differentiation for the diversity of allusion and intertextuality that exists among the authors that Genette chooses to discuss. The most interesting part of this text for me was the fine table that equivocates the chapters in Joyce's Ulysses with the books of the Odyssey. The author is profoundly smart and so able at comparing texts that I did enjoy reading this book. I found certain parts easily skipped (due to my lack of interest or background). I recommend this book for those specifically interested in the details of the matter at hand or in the critical writings of Genette. Beyond the pleasure of reading certain parts I do not find as much to recommend to the general reader. Better and clearer discussion exist of narratology and intertextuality. Still, Genette's book is not without educative charm.	2002-09-22
US	51999163	R3UOAIYKOGKIUC	1859842364	958936595	(Per)Versions of Love and Hate	Books	4	12	13	N	N	this book	The book collects several essays by the author Renata Salecl. She applies Lacanian precepts and her critical thinking might to cultural objects such as films, artists, politics, tatooing and  clitoridectomy. This book accomodates its readers, for all psychoanalytic hypostases are glossed. It is rare that an author has the ability to write amusingly and provokingly on a series that ranges from Homer's Sirens to the Remains of the Day, Romanian politics and architecture to films about Japanese calligraphy on the body and sexual transgression, all the while informed by a sense of purpose and psychoanalytic expertise. For me the most notable sparks result from the essays that reflect on human rights, cultural relativism and the big Other, the symbolic structure that we live within but do not entirely respect or feel we can take responsibility for. Despite the reservations I have for the application of psychoanalytic precepts to objects other than  patients, I feel that this book thoroughly fulfilled its cause by educating me on select cultural matters as a means of provoking bigger thoughts on my part. I think the chapter on hate speech is the weakest. Still, I feel that this book furthers discussion that is necessary in my country (America) that seems to have prevented itself from significant reflection while pushing for so many demands in the global sphere.	2002-09-22
US	51999163	R2LC4FBUY4ZKG6	1564783022	362655882	Berg (British Literature)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	bent up triangle	I do recommend this novel, but only to those who will not desperately flee some miserably twisted circumstances. This novel continues the experimentation of the English novel as a form that Beckett put a halt to when he became French. Berg really is tremendously dark, but it has an oddity or eccentricity that makes it not only memorable but meaningful. In addition to the story indicated in the editorial reviews above, it does something to resemble in content an almost Graeco-tragedian structure puttied with a more domestically modern flesh. This novel is one that totally disturbed me in ways that did not make me love it but I find that the author is wonderfully comic, creative, pleasingly dark and intelligent. For such an odd book, I do not know how to say I recommend it, but for a continuance in one's education of novelistic recourses this may be one book that makes you happy in a rather uncomfortable way. If for no other reason, pick this novel up to read the first sentence.	2002-09-22
US	51999163	R8TE5S0EN3QN5	0553210351	990247892	The Death of Ivan Ilyich (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	70	76	N	N	In Passing	Tolstoy's novella makes rewarding and unsettling reading. Surely, I can think of no novel that treats dying as boldly. Death is a fact. In this story Ivan Ilyich's life and death are plainly represented in a fashion that remarkably resembles the times I have been aware of other, near people dying. What the novel puts on display in so satisfying and disconcerting a fashion is the remarkable inability or reluctance of most people (I ashamedly include myself in this group) to take part in the life of a person who is inevitably and rather immediately dying. Only one character in the novel has the goodness, humility and patience to care for a dying man, the rest scurry about and take care of their anticipated needs in the face of losing a loved one.<br />I find that I read this book again every year and that it remains such a fine portrait of a bureaucrat whose family life does not entirely satisfy him and whose pursuit of a more meaningful life fails to cease even in sickness, when he understands that his mortality is soon to be demonstrated. There are few works of this nature that I can set in the company of this short novel. Despite many readings, I feel I still don't entirely understand it, but later in life I imagine I will do better. This book is so excellent and the edition here lends itself to portable and pleasant reading.	2002-09-20
US	51999163	R1BCP7W4VI3MEH	0872863603	979581502	Memories of Our Future: Selected Essays 1982-1999	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The best part	For me the best part of this book is not its engagement with some of the world's current sources of real and political pain, but its recommendation and honest appraisal of other books. Mr. Alcalay writes informatively and with tasteful purpose. Even the essays of a more personal nature I found moving, but the books he has read and recommends are the diamonds that too often remain beneath the rubble. I cannot say there is anywhere else I would have found some of these authors recommended or reviewed. Mr. Alcalay writes with enthusiasm about authors whose literatures will never make the weekend book page. These authors are diverse in approach (poets, novelists, essayists, historians) and smart. They provide more immediate accounts of other places and states, some of the light and the heavy. This book fills a need by providing the names necessary for readers to get better acquainted with writers in the Middle East and some chosen Eastern European regions. I recommend this book highly.	2002-09-18
US	51999163	R443IJSRWPXUP	0801866529	606044727	The Tradition of the Trojan War in Homer and the Epic Cycle	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Hostage to Milieu	Truly, here is a very exciting book. The author clearly, in three long chapters (with appendices) discusses the Trojan War in the evidence of the Epic Cycle and its relation to the Homeric poems. The author has brought together philology, history, archaeology and good sense here. He shares bright arguments and suggestions in these pages that provoke thought for those interested specifically in the poems of Homer or in epic generally. Far from stealing the sparkle of the Homeric poems, this book provides the best discussion I have read of the variant threads of the stories of the Trojan War current in the age of the oral composition of the Iliad and Odyssey. It seemed so improbable that such magnificent, encyclopedic poems would stridently bound from the dark, poetic silence of the early Greek Mediterranean. Burgess shows that they didn't and that already at the time of the composition of the Homeric poems there existed a bounty of versions of the Trojan War that bore no direct relation to the poems of Homer as we know them. I recommend this timely book (timely, for it seems there is enough research to be thoroughly convincing, to me,) to teachers of Homer, early Greek culture and epic.	2002-09-18
US	51999163	R3NPUN29RD2CQU	0801487307	995262934	Literary Culture in a World Transformed: A Future for the Humanities	Books	3	4	9	N	N	a future without books?	This efficient book admirably attempts to sketch a vigorous and relevant future for literary culture, after having addressed a bit of its past, but, in my opinion, fails to address the literary and theoretical texts well enough to justify a culture for literature at all. Understand though, authors here find themselves addressed in cursory fashion, because literary culture, not literature, is the topic under study. However, deeper and more thoughtful studies of science and literature, or technology and literature, or politics and literature exist. The author has written a slender overview of much in a clear style that lacks verve. Some smart sentences and suggestions on how to better cultivate a literary culture intermittently pop up. On the whole though, the text addresses topics that in my opinion don't make literary culture very interesting. I don't think it is necessary for literary practitioners to stretch inordinately to encompass disparate and developing topics that are not yet an integral part of literary culture on the gamble that they will nourish or increase the field. Also, I do not think it is sufficient to pepper the text with \\"gay/lesbian studies\\", \\"postcolonial studies\\", \\"feminist studies\\", et al., and feel that these fields consequently have been addressed. A few pages read of Rabelais or Roussel, or even M. Serres, G. Beer, D. Haraway, E. F. Keller on themes mentioned in this book will be more likely, it seems, to promulgate enthusiasm for literature and the health of this literary culture.	2002-07-02
US	51999163	R1RH8458ADBRJ7	0300088566	770563433	At Empire's Edge: Exploring Rome's Egyptian Frontier	Books	5	6	7	N	N	On the edge	Here is a splendid recounting of histories (the old and the older) and anecdotes of explorations in the deserts and oases of what was once Roman Egypt. In addition, credible summations of existing research and excavations provide the reader with a distanced understanding of some curious spaces. The images in this book, all black and white, seem both numinous and stunning. The maps present the only bit of chaos with their insect-like sprawlings and unorganized keys. One must scan all names of the key to find the number and location for the places described. Clearer maps would have been lovely, but since it is unlikely I'll need such maps, the existing suffice. The reading is compelling, the topics heterogenous. On the whole, this book provides significant information and pleasure.	2002-06-11
US	51999163	RQ1DCQ5P8E6AI	0817311327	250176100	Led by Language: The Poetry and Poetics of Susan Howe (Modern & Contemporary Poetics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	pleasing appreciation	Here's a fleet review of some of Susan Howe's poetic sequences. Rachel T. Back writes intelligently about the poems and affectionately. For some of the poems there is no best method of approach but Back offers some helpful paths. Items of Howe's own past are revealed, but most of this information exists elsewhere in &quot;My Emily Dickinson&quot; and &quot;The Birth Mark&quot;. Howe's faithful readers and the curious will enjoy, however, and be enlightened by this thoughtful book.	2002-03-25
US	51999163	R33BWNSUFCQ9ZP	0231122020	388971567	Why Psychoanalysis? (European Perspectives: A Series in Social Thought and Cultural Criticism)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	pensive and pendulous	Psychoanalysis as a necessary and reasonable practice is defended and reviewed.. Roudinesco's book neatly narrates the contentious 20th century history of psychoanalysis in France and the United States. The author describes psychoanalyis as a deeply human(e) practice, a practice allied with democratic freedoms and care of the self. This small but thoroughly provocative book, raises questions about the chemical and genetic reducibility of the individual that medication as remediation readily assumes. Also assumed is the existence of a soul or psyche as an entity ready for care. The existence of this \\"given\\" does not meet discussion. The author evenly and smartly makes a thoughtful contribution to the discussion on caring for depression and addressing the person not just the chemical.	2002-03-25
US	51999163	R1NIO0R9AVULBJ	0674006461	212032846	Friends of Interpretable Objects	Books	4	4	12	N	N	Lex, legis?	Within this tiny volume of lecture-length chapters bravely stares a provocation to reconsider both why and how (also a little on what) we pursue interpretation. A couple of the chapters serve mealy reading (e.g., Byzantine law and Iconostasis), but the overall argument pleasingly confounds the mellow and perhaps mindless reception of analyses of objects whose interpretations may be completely unnecessary beyond their value as ways of thinking that create like-minded societies. The perspectives of legal scholars, tree-lovers, art historians, and others, who make sense of parts of the world and its culture for the many of us who grow weary of the incessant, silly sallies required to be comprehensively aware, receive attention. Despite a recondite divagation here and there, I thoroughly enjoyed reading this sharp and playful book.	2002-01-14
US	51999163	RDEE2ALFN4OY6	0674000625	219608463	The End of the Past: Ancient Rome and the Modern West (Revealing Antiquity)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	a labor	Blinded by footnote barrages at times I am sure to have missed some of the  fine arguments presented. However, this book is golden despite the scope of  an almost intractable undertaking. The author discusses in the most detail  the ways of the Roman economy and its labor supply (slave), in order to  argue that when conditions of the Roman world were no longer sufficient to  maintain the empire the &quot;greatest catastrophe ever experienced in the  history of civilization&quot; was experienced due to the very nature of  these systems. The result is a dense opus of effort and erudition that  re-evaluates the Romans, Roman historians, and the differences between the  Romanity and modernity.	2000-07-09
US	51999163	R29DLKLL5X5KDA	0140435697	773440378	New Science (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	15	25	N	N	hooray for penguin	An eighteenth century alternative to a Cartesian hegemony of philosophic  vision. Herein lies a pride of imaginative erudition and practice for the  reader in allegorical and metaphorical thought--a poetic more than meets  the mind. &quot;Poetic Wisdom&quot; offers a gamboling philological  development of human institutions--all that is, explained. And this book  has a chapter on &quot;The Discovery of the True Homer.&quot; He was so  much fun to look for and we are glad he's found. This edition has a  detailed table of contents and an introduction by Anthony Grafton as a  bonus for readers.	2000-07-09
US	51999163	R3MNL1RKBBK8YF	0520216458	828141437	The Cynics: The Cynic Movement in Antiquity and Its Legacy (Hellenistic Culture and Society)	Books	5	26	29	N	N	bow wow	This pleasurable book fills a need by representing the Cynics in one  affordable volume. The essays are diverse in the topics and time periods  addressed, from Greece to Goethe and beyond. View the table of contents to  preview the extravaganza. On the whole, the essays are clear and compelling  reading for all interested in how different people have received some ideas  of the Cynics. Be sure to note the academic fireworks in the footnotes for  the most polite disagreements among contributors.	2000-07-09
