US	51992120	R1DAGJTABZBG27	0345461347	258301458	To the Last Man: A Novel of the First World War	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Lest We Forget	I love history.  Though my preference is ancient, I find myself reading historical novels from all ages.  I decided to read Shaara's novel because I knew little about WWI.  Since reading it, I'm certain most Americans know virtually nothing about this conflict.  Shaara's work is extremely interesting and will, at a minimum, give you a framework and basic understanding of WWI.<br /><br />As a former fighter pilot (F-106), I found the emphasis on the airwar that was prevelant in the first half of the book intriguing.  Richtoffen emerges as a real human being of commitment and dedication, not some cartoon character.  The Lafayette Esquadrille and the subsequent Hat in the Ring Squadron come to life as well.<br /><br />The land war focuses on General Blackjack Pershing and his approach to this new theater of combat, and the horrors of trenches are seen through the eyes of Everyman's soldier, Roscoe Temple.<br /><br />There is no doubt that the Americans turned the tide of the conflict and were personally responsible for changing the tide of battle.  While I was reading the book, I was traveling in England.  I discussed the book with my friends and associates there and was surprised to learn that they knew even less about WWI than I did.<br /><br />I strongly recommend this book to every American.  In this great land of opportunity we are so often apt to forget and overlook the sacrifices of our forefathers.  We can still recall the sacrifice of WWII.  My Dad, a Flying Tiger, is still alive.  Few of us, however, know anything about WWI.  We all must read this book to keep history alive for us and our children.	2005-09-05
US	51992120	RL0HNBSVBV6VL	0385500998	489310389	The Virtues of War: A Novel of Alexander the Great	Books	5	135	143	N	Y	Alexander's Art of War	In the light of the current world environment, you need to read this book.  While Mr. Pressfield played on Sun Tzu's title in his 2002 take-control-of-your-life manual, The War of Art, he goes right to the heart of the matter in Virtues: this book is Alexander the Great's Art of War.  Where previous Pressfield novels detailed what the individual combatant was thinking and feeling, Virtues focuses on the leader, the man in charge of it all, logistics, material, tactics, strategy, morale and every other aspect of war.<br /><br />In six short years since the publication of his classic Gates of Fire, Steven Pressfield has set a new standard for historical fiction and sits firmly entrenched at the top of a list of talented writers in that genre.  The master's attention to detail through diligent research is without equal.  As importantly to his readers, Mr. Pressfield weaves a tale that keeps us hooked on his work from first to last page.  His details do not detract or bog down the telling of the tale but serve it.  Like it's predecessors, The Virtues of War left me satiated if not emotionally drained when I read its final words:<br /><br />\\"The sarissa's song is a sad song<br /><br />He pipes it soft and low.<br /><br />I would ply a gentler trade, says he,<br /><br />But war is all I know.<br /><br />The wind rose in that moment, lifting the corner of Alexander's cloak.  I saw his heel tap Corona's flank.  He reined-about and started for the camp, surrounded by his officers.\\"<br /><br />All of the Pressfield Greek Histories as I've come to call them are narrated.  In his previous work, Last of the Amazons, Mr. Pressfield took a big chance and told much of the story through the words of a woman, no small task for a man who did spend time in the U.S. Marine Corps.  In Virtues, Pressfield walks the plank again; the risk: for the first time, his tale is told by a real historical figure -- not a fictitious one -- and by none other than the Great One himself, Alexander.  Once again, Pressfield has re-invented himself, this time through Alexander the Great.<br /><br />Not far into the book, I truly felt that I was not reading a novel, rather that I was privileged to sit in the King's own tent, just he and I while I listened to his recollections of things past, most notably his major victories: Chaeronea, Granicus, Issus, Gaugamela, the guerilla war in Afghanistan and Hydaspes.  Alexander explained to me the complexities of leadership and I listened closely.  The book is written from such a deep, personal level that I recalled the early scene in \\"Patton\\" where the General and Omar Bradley stand at the Kasserine Pass in North Africa as Patton recollects the details of the battle waged between the Carthaginians and the Roman Legions.  \\"I was there,\\" Patton comments.  I can't help but think Steven Pressfield immersed himself so deeply into his narrator that in a very real sense, 'he was there!'<br /><br />But this is not a book about the battles that often come to the forefront in the other Pressfield novels.  Virtues rarely visits the hand-to-hand combat of Gates of Fire and Tides of War or the detailed massacres in Amazons.  No, this book is about leadership.  Alexander's first real taste of combat was at Chaeronea in 338 BC under the tutelage of his father, Philip of Macedon.  Fifteen years later he when died at 32-years-old, he had conquered the known world.  In Alexander's words, Mr. Pressfield explores the decision-making process all leaders confront, and he does not overlook the doubts that are certain to plague a leader and his army as they trek over 11,000 miles on foreign soil for over a decade.<br /><br />The reader will find himself drawing comparisons between what happened on Alexander's campaign with what is currently happening in that part of the world.  How could Alexander conquer Babylon and Baghdad and move on with the certainty that his rear position was in no danger from those he had vanquished?  So often we believe thatguerilla warfare is an invention of modern man, but Mr. Pressfield shows us how Alexander dealt with the guerilla war in Afghanistan.  True, things are much different 2,000 years later, but if history does indeed repeat itself, there are lessons to be learned from the experiences of arguably the most successful General in the history of warfare.<br /><br />You won't find 'blood and guts' in this story; you will not take the battlefield with GI Joe.  You will enter the mind of a man who mastered generalship through all his doubts, trials and tribulations.  You may complete this book with a new outlook on current affairs and you may pose many \\"What if?\\" questions by super-imposing Alexander the Great onto the world stage as it exists today.  You'll enjoy Virtues of War just for the story; you'll appreciate it more for its relevancy.t guerilla warfare is an invention of modern man, but Mr. Pressfield shows us how Alexander dealt with the guerilla war in Afghanistan.  True, things are much different 2,000 years later, but if history does indeed repeat itself, there are lessons to be learned from the experiences of arguably the most successful General in the history of warfare. <br /> <br />You won't find 'blood and guts' in this story; you will not take the battlefield with GI Joe.  You will enter the mind of a man who mastered generalship through all his doubts, trials and tribulations.  You may complete this book with a new outlook on current affairs and you may pose many \\"What if?\\" questions by super-imposing Alexander the Great onto the world stage as it exists today.  You'll enjoy Virtues of War just for the story; you'll appreciate it more for its relevancy.   <br />	2004-10-20
US	51992120	R3UU0K3M0WLPNY	0786865334	22123758	The Pirate Hunter: The True Story of Captain Kidd	Books	2	6	16	N	N	&quot;Zacks&quot; is not stranger than fiction	I feel guilty that I cannot share the enthusiasm for this book that others have expressed.  I have no doubt that Mr. Zacks' research was painstaking and he did present all the facts.  It was an interesting narrative, but there were sections within the book where the facts turned dry, and I sensed that even Mr. Zacks lost interest; his prose turned almost flippant as if someone else had taken over his pen.  I am a fan of historical fiction; I find it a painless and pleasurable way to study history provided the author has done his research.  Several months ago, I read Nicholas Griffin's &quot;The Requiem Shark.&quot;  If you want to learn about piracy on a personal level, I would recommend Griffin's work.  His research is sound and his narrative takes you deep inside this dangerous but carefree world.  When I compare the two books, &quot;Zacks&quot; was not stranger than fiction, and I felt I learned more from the novel.  That being said, if your specific interest is Captain Kidd, and not the world of pirates, then &quot;The Pirate Hunter&quot; is worth the read.	2003-04-29
US	51992120	R1XHHKP8U3EK9K	0679425411	227222206	The Killer Angels	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	War is Hell	Michael Shaara takes us through the Battle of Gettysburg in sharp detail from start to finish.  Not knowing that Ted Turner's film Gettysburg was based on this book, it became obvious after just a few pages.  As I recall, the film is true to Shaara's book.  Shaara's characters are presented brilliantly from start to finish; these are the men who defined the course of our nation during this bloody encounter in Pennsylvania.  Shaara's novel is a painless way for us to learn about this important event in American history.  When all is said and done, Shaara's book reminds us at a time when we sit on the brink of war that, as always, &quot;war is hell.&quot;	2003-03-09
US	51992120	R25U2VTLN3XXQN	0743204301	975528807	Nothing Like It In The World: The Men Who Built the Trancontinental Railroad, 1863-1869	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Learn about a forgotten American triumph	Not inclined to read non-fiction, I was caught in a transcontinental move from Arizona to Georgia.  When I arrived in the southeast, my daughter tossed this book to me as one recommended by a classmate at Duke.  While I found Ambrose repetitive in some areas, I was fascinated by his story that detailed the construction of the transcontinental railroad from concept before the Civil War to completion after the war in 1869.  This is an American triumph that, to date, may surpass putting a man on the moon.  As I progressed through the story, it occurred to me A)how little I knew about this important accomplishment, and B)what an irreplaceably positive impact the construction of the railroad had on our nation.  When I completed the last page, I was convinced that the United States would not be near the nation it is today without the hard work and commitment of thousands of laborers, surveyors, engineers, etc. who were not intimidated by the immense challenge of the task they faced.<br />I recommend this book to anyone with a thirst for historical knowledge about the United States.  This story fills a gap that you may not have ever thought existed.  Ambrose is not my favorite author, but despite his shortcomings with this book, he has done a fine job detailing the railroad adventure.	2003-01-10
US	51992120	R1OS3KLGY32HDY	0316501115	841614490	Goodbye, Darkness: A Memoir of the Pacific War	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A study in duty, honor, country	Most Americans have been exposed to \\"Saving Private Ryan\\" and HBO's exceptional series \\"Band of Brothers,\\" and many of us have read \\"Ghost Soldiers.\\"  All are excellent ways for us to learn of the sacrifices our fathers made on behalf of our own, personal freedoms during WWII.  To say one enjoys those films and that book is somewhat of a mis-statement.  It is difficult to enjoy recollections of personal suffering and sacrifice.  We do, however, appreciate the personal courage of the men's experiences and stand in awe of them to the nth degree.<br /><br />As much as I appreciated the likes of \\"Saving Private Ryan\\" and \\"Band of Brothers\\" among other books and films on WWII, no book on the subject has touched my soul like William Manchester's \\"Goodbye Darkness.\\"  Through the book, Manchester returns to the Pacific and visits the islands that were the sites of the greatest carnage of WWII.  He comments on what he sees during his visit in 1978 or so, but is continually drawn back in time to the events that occurred there that ultimately led to the defeat of the Japanese Empire.  Noticeably, Manchester rarely uses the word \\"Japenese,\\" rather he refers to \\"Japs\\" and \\"Nips.\\"  In today's politically correct environment, Manchester's references would be considered totally unacceptable.  However, as you read his recollections of the engagements he and thousands of other Marines participated in, and you tally up the tremendous loss of human life in the process, you will excuse him for his political incorrectness.  Manchester makes the most convincing case to justify the deployment of the atom bomb to bring an end to the conflict.  Neutral on the topic prior to reading this book, I am now convinced that the use of nuclear arms to end the war with Japan was justified in a way that can only be appreciated after reading this book.<br /><br />\\"Goodbye Darkness\\" should be required reading for all high school students.  I watched O'Reilley the other night and heard the segment on UNC making a book on the Quaran mandatory reading for incoming freshmen.  Poppycock!  Make them read \\"Goodbye Darkness\\" so that each can truly appreciate the sacrifices his forefathers made.  This is a must read for every American today and in future generations.the Quaran mandatory reading for incoming freshmen.  Poppycock!  Make them read \\"Goodbye Darkness\\" so that each can truly appreciate the sacrifices his forefathers made.  This is a must read for every American today and in future generations.	2002-10-18
US	51992120	R2PZKYPABUMV8E	0743434374	836419354	2: Alexander: The Sands of Ammon	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Maybe something got lost in the translation	I found Manfredi's first volume in his Alexander triology interesting enough to proceed with this, the second volume.  Rarely would I abandon an author, but after reading The Sands of Ammon, I will not finish the trilogy.  I've considered that maybe something got lost in the translation, but I am not convinced of that theory.  Alexander and his companions are presented as NSYNC, or maybe the Backstreet Boys; I was expecting Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table or something equally as Wagnerian.  Throughout the volume, Alexander seems to make off-the-wall, uninformed decisions that just happen to work out.  The fact that he was schooled by Aristotle hardly enters into the formula.  The romantic escapades that Manfredi inserts actually detract from the progress of the story and only interfere with the meat of the tale:  how did this young man conquer the world.  Clearly, it wasn't by luck or reliance on chance and uninformed decisions.<br />Whether it was Halliday's translation or Manfredi's lack of research, this just doesn't cut the mustard.  No thanks.  I'm content to wait two years for Steven Pressfield's next book.	2002-09-12
US	51992120	R3V47MG1926HKV	1590710029	46928538	Steel My Soldiers' Hearts: The Hopeless to Hardcore Transformation of the U.S. Army, 4th Battalion, 39th Infantry, Vietnam	Books	3	16	38	N	Y	I had difficulties enjoying this book ......	A retired Air Force pilot from the Viet Nam era, I wanted desparately to like this book like the countless others who have sung its praises. My biggest problem was the author.<br /><br />Whether the Viet Nam war was right or wrong, I support and praise each man who had the courage to do his duty when called upon.  Unfortunately, each man who served and each man who died was lied to by a government in turmoil, a government which had aligned itself to the unjust regime of a South Vietnamese government that really didn't represent the will of the Vietnamese people.  The result was tragic beyond cognition.  When I was a kid, we were taught that General Custer was a hero; 40 years laters, we know he was trapped in a similar situation.  I respect the men who died with their boots on, but they may have died in vain in a misguided effort.  Bottom line:  I have great respect for those who do not shirk their duty.<br /><br />When I read about sacrifice, I want to be moved in a personal way.  Col. Hackworth failed to move me.  In his typically arrogant and self-serving way, he painted a picture of himself as the successor to Sun Tzu.  Hackworth offers some excellent advice to young officers in the book's 'afterward,' but the body of the book is filled with countless examples of how he himself had all the answers and everyone else was wrong and misguided.<br /><br />Hackworth's tactics and strategies, his approach to his troops were unquestionably effective as was demonstrated throughout his narrative and supported by the troops he led.  In one major aspect, however, Hackworth failed miserably.  Clearly he had several severe problems with his superiors.  Leaders occur at all levels of an organization, from top to bottom.  One of the most important roles of a leader is to communicate effectively in both directions.  Hackworth was a master with his peers and subordinates; he was a failure with his superiors.<br /><br />If his methods provided answers to situations that were in havoc, a true leader would have had the courage to make those answers known and accepted at all levels of the chain of command.  That is not any easy task and requires intense work.  Hackworth was content to complain about his superiors and even to his superiors.  This maybe a natural human reaction, but it accomplishes nothing.  Hackworth needed to do a better job communicating with his superiors in a cooperative way.  It's often said that we need to get everyone to \\"buy into our ideas.\\"  Often, that means influencing our superiors, peers and subordinates into thinking that they originated the ideas themselves in the first place.  Perhaps had Hackworth been a better communicator with his superiors .... perhaps if he had allowed Hunt and others to believe the tactics and strategies were theirs, those same effective tactics and strategies would have been adapted universally during the Viet Nam conflict.  After reading this book, I think Hackworth's ego may have gotten in the way.<br /><br />I don't believe the result of the conflict would have been any different, but the course of events would have been.<br /><br />I praise Col. Hackworth for his duty to country.  I praise him for his journalistic achievements.  I'm less a fan of his arrogant approach to life and death in combat.<br /><br />Whether you are a fan of David Hackworth or not, this book does provide a close up look at what our soldiers went through on a daily basis in a war gone bad.d the courage to make those answers known and accepted at all levels of the chain of command.  That is not any easy task and requires intense work.  Hackworth was content to complain about his superiors and even to his superiors.  This maybe a natural human reaction, but it accomplishes nothing.  Hackworth needed to do a better job communicating with his superiors in a cooperative way.  It's often said that we need to get everyone to \\"buy into our ideas.\\"  Often, that means influencing our superiors, peers and subordinates into thinking that they originated the ideas themselves in the first place.  Perhaps had Hackworth been a better communicator with his superiors .... perhaps if he had allowed Hunt and others to believe the tactics and strategies were theirs, those same effective tactics and strategies would have been adapted universally during the Viet Nam conflict.  After reading this book, I think Hackworth's ego may have gotten in the way.    I don't believe the result of the conflict would have been any different, but the course of events would have been.    I praise Col. Hackworth for his duty to country.  I praise him for his journalistic achievements.  I'm less a fan of his arrogant approach to life and death in combat.    Whether you are a fan of David Hackworth or not, this book does provide a close up look at what our soldiers went through on a daily basis in a war gone bad.	2002-07-20
US	51992120	RUMBQM1CXWX0	038550098X	591346591	Last of the Amazons: A Novel	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Pressfield's Iliad and Odyssey	Let me make it easy for you. If you are an occasional reader looking for a good book ... if you enjoyed the films Gladiator, Braveheart, 13th Warrior, Spartacus, Last of the Mohicans (get it: Last of the Amazons), and others of that genre .... If you are a fan of Arthurian Legend and stories of valor, heroism, courage and commitment, you will love this book.. It packs a wallop like no other book I've read since Gates of Fire, and it can potentially (if someone steps up to the bar) hit you from the big screen like a two-by-four. If those things are of no interest to you, go look for another book and don't waste your time reading the rest of this.<br />Steven Pressfield has taken himself to new heights with Last of the Amazons. When I learned Mr. Pressfield was following Tides of War with a book about Amazons, I was very skeptical. That skepticism disappeared after my first day of reading. From my perspective, I know of few stories that can capture the soul of courage like the stand of the 300 Spartans at Thermopylae. Mr. Pressfield told that story like it's never been told in Gates of Fire. It remains my favorite book as much for Pressfield's telling as for the story itself. Nonetheless, he has taken historical references from Plutarch and other archeological suggestions, combined them with legend that has survived millenniums and created a tale that rivals Homer's Iliad and Odyssey.<br />After turning the last page, I pulled out a 1951 translation of Homer's epics, and sensed a similar style and prose. As Diana Gabaldon (Fiery Cross) wrote on the back cover, \\"Homer would be proud of this guy [Pressfield].\\" Truer words have been rarely spoken about an author.<br />This is a story about freedom, the freedom of individuals and the freedom of a nation. As Mr. Pressfield demonstrates through 396 tightly wrapped pages, freedom is a fragile thing. It can be corrupted through internal and external events. Freedom can be maintained or sacrificed by individual choices within any group. This concept is reinforced from start to finish.<br />Mr. Pressfield introduces us to a number of characters that we are unlikely to forget. All Pressfield novels are narrated. Pressfield alternates between three of several key characters: Selene, an Amazon champion, Damon, an Athenian champion, and Mother Bones (you'll be astonished when you find out who she is). I was amazed at Mr. Pressfield's ability to tell much of the tale through the mind of two women, a risky task, but one that Pressfield accomplishes magnificently. I have read few books in which I identify so strongly with each character whom it was so easy to imagine such a clear picture of. This is a visual achievement: not only could I 'see' each character and unquestionably know the mind of each, but also, I could see, feel and hear each thrust of the sword, each crunch of frozen ground as the Amazons trekked to Athens .... I could feel the ground rumble with the advance of Amazon cavalry .... I could see the 'Wildlands' extend before me .... Correct: I was mesmerized by this book.<br />I'll not spoil your read to summarize the tale. It is filled, however, with love, hate, compassion, respect, brother and sisterhood, and harmony among living creatures. Like Homer's Iliad, there is enough action to fill several books, and it ranges from individual combat among champions to plains warfare to siege warfare. You will not be disappointed. As a child I remember reading the myth of Theseus and the Minotaur; that event occurs years before this story and is mentioned only in passing. Here is the rest of the tale!any group. This concept is reinforced from start to finish.<br />Mr. Pressfield introduces us to a number of characters that we are unlikely to forget. All Pressfield novels are narrated. Pressfield alternates between three of several key characters: Selene, an Amazon champion, Damon, an Athenian champion, and Mother Bones (you'll be astonished when you find out who she is). I was amazed at Mr. Pressfield's ability to tell much of the tale through the mind of two women, a risky task, but one that Pressfield accomplishes magnificently. I have read few books in which I identify so strongly with each character whom it was so easy to imagine such a clear picture of. This is a visual achievement: not only could I 'see' each character and unquestionably know the mind of each, but also, I could see, feel and hear each thrust of the sword, each crunch of frozen ground as the Amazons trekked to Athens .... I could feel the ground rumble with the advance of Amazon cavalry .... I could see the 'Wildlands' extend before me .... Correct: I was mesmerized by this book.<br />I'll not spoil your read to summarize the tale. It is filled, however, with love, hate, compassion, respect, brother and sisterhood, and harmony among living creatures. Like Homer's Iliad, there is enough action to fill several books, and it ranges from individual combat among champions to plains warfare to siege warfare. You will not be disappointed. As a child I remember reading the myth of Theseus and the Minotaur; that event occurs years before this story and is mentioned only in passing. Here is the rest of the tale!	2002-06-09
US	51992120	R2W0TV790HIP27	1590710037	757683089	The War of Art: Winning the Inner Creative Battle	Books	5	357	380	N	Y	A Work of Compulsion	One thing is certain:  Steven Pressfield was compelled by whatever source provides him inspiration for his craft to write this book.  This is not a labor of love; it is a labor of compulsion.  The book is also certain to draw extreme reviews:  some will love it; others won't.  Middle ground is unlikely.  The book manifests itself:  I don't think Steven Pressfield cares if he sells one copy, nor does he care whether we like it or not.  He only knows that this was a book he had to write.  I'm glad he did.<br />The War of Art is a real-world extension of Bagger Vance, the Jonathan Livingston Seagull of the `90's.  Pressfield's presentation draws comparison to many statements that have floated around in my head over the years.  JLS said \\"You have the freedom to be yourself, your true self here and now.\\"  In the second edition of the Star War series (in the late `70's?) Yoda tells Luke Skywalker, \\"There is no try.\\"  Either do it or don't do it.  The War of Art makes a strong case for both of these concepts.<br />I was a fighter pilot for nearly 10 years, edited and published a newspaper for two, and entered the battlefield of corporate America two decades ago.  As I concluded Pressfield's book, I was overwhelmed with the bittersweet feeling that I truly wished I had read this book when I was 20, not 52.  Only having read one or two randomly selected pages when I got the book, I emailed by 20-year-old son in New Hampshire and made it \\"mandatory reading.\\"  He called me within 48 hours, and I couldn't fail to see the impression The War of Art had made on him.  \\"Dad,\\" he said, \\"For the first time in my life, I can see all the time I've wasted ....\\"  The impact was as real as it was profound.<br />I read once that \\"the only thing in the middle of the road is yellow stripes and dead armadillos.\\"  Pressfield powerfully demands that the reader has to make affirmative choices to accomplish any calling in life; there is no middle of the road.  He deftly explains why so few people reach their own God-given and inspired potential and offers his path for reaching that potential.<br />Even at 52-years-old, I will change my life having read this book.  I sense my son will too.  There are concepts that I cannot nor would I fully commit to.  Nonetheless, Pressfield has professed an approach to life, be it art or otherwise, that will work.  Whether you love this book or hate it, I guarantee it will make you think, and it will alter your approach to life, the path you've taken and the pace of your journey.reach their own God-given and inspired potential and offers his path for reaching that potential.<br />Even at 52-years-old, I will change my life having read this book.  I sense my son will too.  There are concepts that I cannot nor would I fully commit to.  Nonetheless, Pressfield has professed an approach to life, be it art or otherwise, that will work.  Whether you love this book or hate it, I guarantee it will make you think, and it will alter your approach to life, the path you've taken and the pace of your journey.	2002-05-27
US	51992120	R1YVMT5X3CHQVB	0312278705	256940375	Under the Eagle: A Tale of Military Adventure and Reckless Heroism with the Roman Legions (Eagle Series)	Books	3	68	76	N	Y	Okay for a first novel	This book is a cross between comic book action and a mystery.  Simon Scarrow demonstrated his knowledge of the Roman legion from start to finish, and I felt educated in that regard when I finished.  Nonetheless, the action and dialogue to a degree had a &quot;comic book&quot; feel about them.  That's okay and it made for fast, light reading, but the prose was far short and less satisfying than one might find in other books in the genre.  Scarrow builds a mystery filled with political intrigue around his historical focus.  This book is not about the Roman conquest of Britain; don't be misled.  The actual crossing occurs late in the book and the real action prior to that event (and a good piece of action)occurs early in the novel in Germany.  Throughout the book, I reminisced to younger days when I read &quot;Nick Fury and his Howling Commandos&quot; and &quot;Sgt. Rock and Easy Company&quot; comics.  I can still enjoy them, but I was looking for more with this book.<br />If you are looking for a fast read with good action when it happens combined with an overlay of mystery and political intrigue, you can enjoy this book.  If you are looking for the depth of a &quot;Tides of War,&quot; you won't find it here.	2002-05-19
US	51992120	RMFSP391P3IB4	156324599X	318175385	Spartacus (North Castle Books)	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Like good wine:  better with age.	Not including the mandatory classics like Moby Dick that we were required to read in school growing up in the 50's and 60's, I recall that Spartacus was one of the first 'adult' books I voluntarily read.  I enjoyed it as a 14-year-old kid, but I'm certain I waded through the book from action scene to action scene.  What motivated me to read it again nearly 40 years later, I don't know.  Nonetheless, I picked it up a month ago and did it again.      The changes in my perceptions were startingly.  Frankly, there are not many action scenes, and it amazed me that I was able to hang in there as a boy reading a man's book.  More importantly, this is a book about people and great concepts and controversies that have been a part of mankind since the beginning.    As an adult knowing about Howard Fast's background when he wrote the book, I could read his own struggles in the 50's portrayed through the lives of the 'greatest' generation of its time, the people of the Roman Empire.    This is as stunning a book about freedom as you will ever read.  Early on when a crucified gladiator tells onlookers, \\"I will return, and I will be millions,\\" you can easily see the connection between what happened in this little documented yet important episode in history and what has occurred in the subsequent 2,000 years.      The story of Spartacus is not finished; mankind has miles to go before it sleeps.  Still, the tale of rebellious gladiators who unite the slave population of Rome through four tumultuous years is an excellent base from which to consider other chapters in the story through 20 centuries.    An excellent book that will hook you through character and conceptual development.	2002-04-07
US	51992120	R3NA8TML6T774J	0312269463	829154026	The Ten Thousand: A Novel of Ancient Greece	Books	3	8	11	N	Y	The Cup's Only Half Full!	As I finished the book yesterday, I closed the cover and said to myself, &quot;Not bad .... It's not Gates of Fire, but not bad.&quot;  Because the story was intriguing, I searched the Internet for more information.  I stumbled upon a synopsis of Xenophon's Anabasis prepared by a high school student.  The student had done a superb job in summarizing a complex story.  But as I reviewed it, I learned two things:  1) Michael Curtis Ford had done a good job recounting the facts that he chose to include in The Ten Thousand (excepting, perhaps, his revelation that Tissaphernes, the Persian General, was a woman?), but more disturbingly, 2) He stopped about halfway through this incredible story of courage and survival.<br />When I finished Ford's book, I was overwhelmed with the accomplishments of these brave warriors.  Then I learned that there were many, many more trials that they faced before they successfully reached their homeland.  Frankly, I felt cheated.  I've tried to figure out why Ford would end his book halfway through the story.  It's almost as if he tired of writing.  Reflecting on that thought, it occurred to me that the book became less and less detailed as it approached it's conclusion.  With just 18 pages left, Theo (the narrator) writes, &quot;This, of course, is the dramatic climax of my tale ....&quot;  Why 'of course?'<br />The book is well-done to the point that Ford takes the story.  Had I known, however, that he was going to stop halfway through, I would have opted to read Xenophon's Anabasis to get the entire drama.	2002-03-10
US	51992120	R32HDCYSOLBTNI	0375503366	282741307	The Requiem Shark: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Full Circle through the Pirate World	My previous exposure to the world of pirates was limited to 'B' films growing up in the '50's.  There was always something surreal about pirates; they operated outside the lines.  Still, I knew little about them until I read &quot;The Requiem Shark.&quot;  As an adventure book, it can stand on its own.  Anyone who doesn't enjoy the tale can walk the plank (funny, there was never any plank-walking in this book).  More importantly, I learned a great deal about pirates as I took this voyage with William Williams.<br />Williams is 'recruited' into the fleet of Capt. Bart Roberts in the first few pages.  You'll be amazed when you learn exactly how a pirate ship collects its crew.  From the coast of West Africa, Williams sails to Brazil, then up to the Caribbean, and then back again to Africa with Roberts.  The size of the pirate fleet grows, shrinks, and grows again with various encounters on the high seas.<br />Inevitably, the adventure concludes at the end of a rope, but through the story, Griffin takes us full circle through the pirate world.  With one or two exceptions, I did not find the book overly barbaric nor squeamishly graphic given the subject matter.<br />Griffin does a superb job developing an array of characters centered around Williams:  Roberts the Captain; Scudamore the Surgeon, Bunch the Cabin Boy, and a shipful of others.  I empathized with most despite the nature of their trade.<br />I don't recall seeing a good pirate film since I was a kid a long time ago.  Maybe someone could grab this book up and re-introduce the genre to film.  Read it and you'll see exactly why it would fit well on the big screen.	2002-02-12
US	51992120	R13N5QMQCV6ANG	0769291155	341720097	Harry Chapin -- Guitar Anthology: Guitar Songbook Edition (Guitar Anthology Series)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Excellent for digital keyboard	As a Harry Chapin fan, I had all of the records from the late 60's, through the 70's and into the early 80's.  My wife and I saw Harry life on three occasions, the most memorable at the Landmark Theater in Syracuse amid a raging snowstorm.  Loved him to death.  I can't even pronounce nor remember the names of the people/groups my kids listen to today.<br />Two years ago, I purchased a Technics digital keyboard.  It is terrific.  Several weeks ago, I searched for sheet music on Harry.  This anthology was what I came up with.  The only disappointment is the fact that there are less than 10 songs in it, but it does include a few of my favorites including \\"Corey's Coming.\\"  The beauty of the book is that, even though it is written for guitar, it can easily be translated to the piano.  Beyond that, with a digital piano, you can truly sound very close to the original recording by setting your keyboard up with a folk guitar, etc.<br />I'm certain this book is great for the guitar enthusiast who is a fan of Harry Chapin; as well, don't overlook it if you are a keyboard player.  Last point:  this is a good introduction to Harry Chapin for young musicians who never met the man when he was alive.	2002-02-02
US	51992120	R4OUKYV8KEPOY	0679450394	194324903	The Voyage	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Like a sandwich:  the meat was great, the bread was okay	Caputo's story of three teenage brothers and their journey of personal discovery held me captive.  However, Caputo almost lost me through the first 50 pages, and again in the last 25.  What occurred in between was well worth the read.<br />The sinister family history that prefaced the story and is summarized again at the conclusion was of little interest to me.  Yes, I was curious:  why did the father put his three young sons on a sailing ship and tell them &quot;I don't want to see you again until the end of the summer.&quot;  When the reason was revealed, it was of no interest to me.<br />The journey down the eastern seaboard with several key adventures was extremely interesting and hard to put down.  I finished with no sympathy whatsoever for the boys' heritage, but with all the respect in the world for these three young people who had crossed many miles, not just on the ocean, but in their journey from boyhood to manhood.<br />Anyone who loves the sea and a good tale with the sea as a backdrop will no doubt enjoy this book.  Its turn-of-the-century canvas completed an enjoyable read.  I would recommend this book to young people as well, but caution that the family history is not without immorality!	2001-12-17
US	51992120	RA5T3O0PKOIM8	0385502818	127261313	The Crusader: A Novel	Books	5	29	35	N	Y	In a league with Pressfield's &quot;Gates of Fire&quot;	A fan of historical fiction, I consider Steven Pressfield's &quot;Gates of Fire&quot; the standard of the genre from which all others are measured. I have searched for several years to find a book that approaches the flavor of Pressfield's work. With his first novel, Michael Alexander Eisner approaches that level. I was pleasantly surprised when I found that the 'advanced praise' on the back cover supplied by Mr. Pressfield; he could not have picked a better book to endorse.<br />Similar to &quot;Gates,&quot; &quot;The Crusader&quot; is narrated through the eyes of another. A Cistercian monk is tasked with the exorcism of Francisco Montcada, a knight from the Spanish order Calatrava returning from his crusade &quot;haunted by demons.&quot; As Francisco's confessor, the monk is taken on this adventure that begins with a detailed look at the training proferred by 'Uncle Ramon,' the leader of the Knights of Calatrava. Once trained, Francisco and 140 Knights of Calatrava embark on their journey to the Holy Land. Eisner takes us graphically through two major engagements, one a success, the other a dismal failure. Francisco ends up in The Citadel, the infamous Muslim prison you may remember from the opening scene in Kevin Costner's &quot;Robin Hood.&quot; Ransomed, Francisco returns to Spain a broken man.<br />The timeliness of &quot;The Crusader&quot; has an uncomfortable sense about it. As I journeyed with Francisco on his mission to recover the Holy Land from the infidels, the US mission in Afghanistan continued to surface in my mind. I perceived similarities between the Crusades and America's war on terror. Eisner writes often of the Muslim mentality, and it was too close for comfort.<br />I cannot speak for the historical accuracy of &quot;The Crusader.&quot; I have a strong sense that Eisner did his homework. With that conviction, I finished the novel (in short order as it was extremely difficult to put down) and felt that I had received a layman's education in an area of history and with events that I was previously only vaguely familiar with.<br />Right or wrong, I often base my recommendations on whether or not I could see this novel unfold on the big screen. Frankly, as I wait for Michael Mann and George Clooney to pick up their pace with &quot;Gates of Fire,&quot; I am anxious for someone to move forward with this novel and bring it to life.<br />&quot;The Crusader&quot; was extremely interesting and fast-paced. Eisner does a fine job with his character development. Many I loved, others I hated. In the final analysis, if you, like I am, are a fan of historical fiction, you must read &quot;The Crusader.&quot;area of history and with events that I was previously only vaguely familiar with.<br />Right or wrong, I often base my recommendations on whether or not I could see this novel unfold on the big screen. Frankly, as I wait for Michael Mann and George Clooney to pick up their pace with &quot;Gates of Fire,&quot; I am anxious for someone to move forward with this novel and bring it to life. <br />&quot;The Crusader&quot; was extremely interesting and fast-paced. Eisner does a fine job with his character development. Many I loved, others I hated. In the final analysis, if you, like I am, are a fan of historical fiction, you must read &quot;The Crusader.&quot;	2001-10-26
US	51992120	RIXU3IBK9TGRW	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Take the Journey	I was led to &quot;Cold Mountain&quot; by a reviewer's statement on the back of Steven Pressfield's &quot;Gates of Fire.&quot; The reviewer claimed that Pressfield had done for the Greco-Persian wars what Charles Frazier had done for the Civil War in &quot;Cold Mountain.&quot; As a huge fan of Pressfield, and particularly of &quot;Gates of Fire,&quot; I was obligated to read &quot;Cold Mountain.&quot; While I do not agree with that reviewer's comment [I found few similarities between the books], I am glad that I had been led to Cold Mountain.<br />Not a literary critic, I find it easiest to recommend a book if I could visualize it as a film during the reading. I could unquestionably do that with Cold Mountain. From start to finish, I could see Daniel Day Lewis as Inman and Madeline Stowe as Ada. The story is captivating as chapters alternate between Inman's journey from a hospital ward in Virginia to his home in Cold Mountain, and his unofficially betrothed Ada's efforts to learn the ways of the wild in managing the farm at Cold Mountain following her father's death. The two do not meet until the final chapters. This would be terrific on the big screen.<br />Frazier's character introductions and subsequent developments are excellent. I looked forward to each new personality and learned to love (or hate) all of them.<br />A close friend and avid reader told me her couldn't get through the first 50 pages of Cold Mountain and put it down. Honestly, I struggled as well through the opening chapter or two. Fortunately, I carried the book with me in my briefcase. On a recent trip to London I picked it up during the flight and could never put it down. Don't be dismayed by the opening chapters if you do find them slow. They are integral parts of a story that will unfold effortlessly before you as you continue to turn the pages.  If, like my friend, you may have doubts, read one chapter entitled &quot;Freewill Savages&quot; that starts on page 284 of the softback (about 2/3 of the way through the book).  What magnificent writing and character development.  Try this on:  &quot;To Ada, though, it seemed akin to miracle that Stobrod, of all people, should offer himself up as proof positive that no matter what a waste one has made of one's life, it is ever possible to find some path to redemption, however partial.&quot;<br />Again, while I found the book much different than Pressfield's &quot;Gates of Fire,&quot; I thank the reviewer for making his statement and encouraging me to read a book that I'll not soon forget.e way through the book).  What magnificent writing and character development.  Try this on:  &quot;To Ada, though, it seemed akin to miracle that Stobrod, of all people, should offer himself up as proof positive that no matter what a waste one has made of one's life, it is ever possible to find some path to redemption, however partial.&quot;<BR>Again, while I found the book much different than Pressfield's &quot;Gates of Fire,&quot; I thank the reviewer for making his statement and encouraging me to read a book that I'll not soon forget.	2001-09-07
US	51992120	R2LQVDB57CWN07	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Heroism through the hardest of times ....	This book is a gut-wrenching journey that follows the plight of those 'left behind,' and those who commit themselves to their rescue.  Hampton Sides does an excellent job of alternating chapters between the prisoners and the rescuers, and pulls it all together in the final confrontation and rescue.  As a story, non-fiction or otherwise, this is a tale of heroism that is difficult to put down.  More than a story, it is an important event in American history that could easily have been lost.  I've read the book and passed it on to my Dad, a WWII vet; it will be a difficult passage for him as he reads of unpleasant events all too close to his heart.  In turn, it will be handed down to each of my four children lest they forget the sacrifice their Grandfather and those like him made so that my children can enjoy the life they do.  Hampton Sides deserves a sincere thanks for keeping this story alive.	2001-08-09
US	51992120	R1HCCTDVATEBCR	0156283158	552233833	Ellis Island and Other Stories	Books	4	24	25	N	Y	A Prelude to Great Works	I am not a regular reader of short stories.  In general, I do not like them.  Still, as a Mark Helprin fan, this is one of his few works that I had not read.  I pressed on ... when I concluded the final story, Ellis Island, I felt completely satisfied with the journey.  If you've never read Helprin, I believe &quot;Ellis Island&quot; and &quot;A Vermont Tale&quot; are most representative of his longer works.  Each story will tempt you to read his novels, all of which are poetic magic.  As I read through these stories, I saw glimpses of each subsequent novel, particularly my favorite, &quot;A Winter's Tale.&quot;  If you've read Helprin before, you owe yourself the time to read this collection.  If you are new to Helprin, this work will encourage you to read more.	2001-05-08
US	51992120	R1EY1HKN4F9TOQ	0306805316	365626977	Thermopylae: The Battle for the West	Books	5	43	47	N	Y	Perfect Companion to &quot;Gates of Fire&quot;	Somewhere in my youth, I became hooked on ancient Greek History after catching the &quot;300 Spartans&quot; matinee (I think Richard Elam was Leonidas).  Several years ago, I read Steven Pressfield's &quot;Gates of Fire.&quot;  I found it fascinating and consider it today, the best book I have ever read.  I just finished Bradford's &quot;Thermopylae:  Battle for the West.&quot;  Mesmerizing!  An absolutely perfect, non-fiction companion to &quot;Gates of Fire.&quot;  Thermopylae actually occurs about halfway through the book.  Bradford does a brilliant job of setting the stage by giving the reader the events, politics, personalities, strategies, etc. that led up to the battle.  He finishes his book by taking the reader through the key engagements (like Salamis and Plataea) that conclude this crossroads in history.  If you enjoy ancient history (particularly ancient, military history), this is a book for you.  It's an easy read through 250 pages packed with details and incidents that are sure to capture your interest.	2001-04-14
US	51992120	R1BNRJEAZT4MJ8	0618087281	304267562	Hurricane: The Miraculous Journey of Rubin Carter	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The facts, Ma'am, just the facts ....	James Hirsch does an excellent job with his biography of Rubin Carter.  I read about one non-fiction book to 20 fiction books; this one could influence me to raise the percentage.  They say that fact is stranger than fiction ... the story of Hurricane Carter gives credibility to that statement.  Hirsch had me hooked from page one.  His matter-of-fact style is rift with descriptive passages that lend themselves to the stuff good novels are often made of.  The story itself:  unbelievable!  As a die-hard fan of historical fiction, I would recommend this tale to anyone.  Tough to put down and not meant to be read through multiple sittings.	2001-03-13
US	51992120	R345BI6ZJ5V177	0802116620	158786120	The Battle	Books	3	0	3	N	Y	It's not &quot;Gates of Fire&quot;	This book was recommended to me after I had read Steven Pressfield's two masterpieces, &quot;Gates of Fire&quot; and &quot;Tides of War.&quot;  While I found &quot;The Battle&quot; of interest, it falls well below the intensity I had anticipated.  Although Rambaud interprets the historical facts accurately, the surrounding characterizations did not produce empathy save for LeJuene.  There are smatterings of detail to describe the horrors of the battlefield, but they occur too intermittantly throughout the book and lack the continuity to bring them together as one vivid picture.  I'd recommend this book for those who are unfamiliar with European warfare during the Napoleanic era.  Don't be misled, however, it's not &quot;Gates of Fire.&quot;	2001-02-09
US	51992120	RJPY5GOEUESUU	039304632X	23611299	The Voyage of the Narwhal	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	Hard to Put Down (as a book and as a critic!)	If you've never read anything about arctic exploration in the 19th century, this book could be for you.  &quot;Voyage of the Narwhal&quot; is a bona fide page turner that demands to be read in as few readings as possible; there never seems to be a convenient place to put the book aside 'until later.'  I was always looking forward to the next page.<br />I knew little and had read even less about this fascinating era of exploration.  This book has inspired me to search for more.  I disagree with the criticisms of &quot;weak characterizations:&quot;  I found the characters very intriguing.  I learned to despise Zeke; side with Erasmus; and empathize with Alexa.  The subordinate characters came across very well, also.<br />From a pure entertainment standpoint, I judge the success of a book based on whether or not I could visualize it on the big screen, and, if I could, would I enjoy it.  Barrett painted a beautiful film with this book complete with breath-taking action and real live characters that I could see and feel.<br />Bravo	2000-12-21
US	51992120	R23QPCUYYKNR74	0738801518	318910510	The King of Vinland's Saga	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Interesting prose .... average story	Not being a student of the Norse saga, I can only agree with reviewers who suggest that Mr. Mirsky's style mimics that found in the original genre.  For that, he is to be commended.  His prose moves with a certain rhythm that I have not experienced before.  After finishing the book, I felt as if I have at least been exposed to the style of the Norse saga.<br />As a story, however, I expected more.  Yes, there is action and the story does flow smoothly from start to finish.  Still, it lacked the excitement that makes a book (like Pressfield's &quot;Gates of Fire&quot;) impossible to put down.  I looked forward to the journey from Greenland to Vinland with great anticipation.  That event alone could have filled a saga with heroics.  In Mr. Mirsky's tale, the Greenlanders depart Greenland, under considerable duress, and a few pages later (seemingly), they have found their way to Vinland.  Mr. Mirsky never helped me understand the difficulty in the crossing itself.  As he suggests, this was one of the first crossings; obviously, it was no small task and deserved more detail than what Mr. Mirsky afforded it.<br />Still, maybe that is the way of the Norse saga:  great accomplishments are recounted very mattter-of-factly.<br />A good effort for a first novel, and I will look forward to the second.	2000-11-08
US	51992120	R2CH0Z8N0MFANX	0151972036	79109568	Winter's Tale	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Poetry flows from each page .....	I have a friend in Mexico who wants to learn better English.  He was in my office and &quot;Memoir From Antproof Case&quot; was on my bookshelf.  &quot;Here,&quot; I handed him the book, &quot;Read this.  Mark Helprin  writes the English language like it was intended to be written.&quot;  My  first exposure to Helprin was &quot;Winter's Tale.&quot;  It is the only  book I've read in 50 years that I've read twice.  I read it twice because I  didn't understand it the first time through, but, more importantly, I  enjoyed the prose more than any book I have ever read.  Open &quot;Winter's  Tale&quot; to any page, run your finger down the page and begin to read.  Whatever page, whatever paragraph, whatever sentence, the words flow off  the page like poetry.  I've read all of Helprin's books.  Each is a  treasure in a different way.  This was the first, and it may be the best.	2000-06-26
US	51992120	R2CN5IT1AK0CNR	0385492529	282597222	Tides of War: A Novel of Alcibiades and the Peloponnesian War	Books	5	46	61	N	Y	Another Victory for Pressfield	For those of you looking for a simple way to determine if this book might be for you, reflect on two films:  &quot;Braveheart&quot; and &quot;Gladiator.&quot;  If you enjoyed one or both of these films, you will  enjoy &quot;Tides of War.&quot;<br />It's a tricky task for any author to  follow up a book (&quot;Gates of Fire&quot;) that is destined to be a  classic.  Pressfield was up for the challenge, and make no mistake about  it, it was a challenge.  The task of covering 27 years in 400 pages, made  more difficult by the complexity of the topic and the characters who play  the lead roles, was one that most authors would hesitate to accept.<br />Pressfield did not shy away.  He gives us a colorful tapestry of 27  years of conflict played out by real characters in real places.  Where  &quot;Gates of Fire&quot; introduces the reader to ancient land combat,  &quot;Tides of War&quot; paints a vivid picture of war on the  seas.<br />Pressfield's book gives us a painless and enjoyable way to take an  entertaining history lesson.  Most intriguing was the main character,  Alcibiades.<br />For those of you who've read &quot;Gates of Fire,&quot; you  owe it to yourself to read this as well.  It will be time well spent.  For  those of you who haven't read either of Pressfield's 'Greek' novels, now's  the time to get hooked.	2000-06-16
US	51992120	R2Z1L3AWZBLZA9	0151836000	47509404	A Soldier of the Great War	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A Must Read	I agree with the many five-star reviews I've read about this wonderful book.  I read it several years ago after reading Helprin's \\"A Winter's Tale.\\"  \\"A Winter's Tale\\" is the only book I've ever read  twice and may opt for a third go.  If you enjoy these two, I strongly  recommend \\"Antproof Case.\\"  It is quite different from the other  two, but jsut as enjoyable.	2000-04-12
US	51992120	R37BL77KYJ3LCN	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A Classic by Every Standard	Steven Pressfield's work, like the 300 Spartiates who filled the pass at Thermopylae, stands in a class of its own without peer.  The prose is as riveting as the story.  The characters are vivid, the imagery stunning.  No tale of heroism can match the story of Leonidas and the fateful stand of his 300 Spartans at the Thermopylae Pass in 480BC.  No author has come close to describing it with the intensity of Mr. Pressfield.  Last month, I sent a letter to Bill O'Reilly and suggested that had Leonidas not made his stand at Thermopylae, we'd all be speaking Arabic today ... I concluded that the 'pass' needed defense again.  Two weeks later, the United States was at war with Saddam Hussein.  This story is timeless, and Mr. Pressfield's telling is unforgettable.  Do not miss the opportunity to read what you will remember as the most powerful book you have ever read.	2000-03-17
US	51992120	R1NRKQ4JGANA0W	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	2	1	1	N	Y	It's NOT Red Dragon	I originally stumbled across Red Dragon in 1982 when I moved to St. Charles, MO about 1 mile from Highway 94 as described in Harris's original novel with Lector. The book was mesmerizing.  Silence of the Lambs, though not as taut, still provided a good read.  Hannibal was a fast but less than  satisfying read.  The characters were shallow, the story not believable,  and the ending .... give me a break.	1999-12-03
