US	52008283	RRS2NGGOL5ECU	0691095655	327412768	The Calculus Gallery: Masterpieces from Newton to Lebesgue	Books	5	86	86	N	N	A Great Book For Math Fans	If you like math, I guarantee you'll like this book! The author starts out with some very nice infinite sums from 17th and 18th century mathematics (Newton, Leibniz, the Bernoullis, and Euler's Gamma function). He continues into the 19th century with Riemann and Lebesque integrals, Weierstrass' pathological functions, Cantor's set theory, and winds up with Baire's category theorem.<br /><br />Reading this book is like taking a guided tour through Real Analysis (= calculus of one real variable) with the math prof you always wished you had. Its only prerequisite is a working knowledge of calculus; the main points are explained very clearly, so the reader can skip through the book or fill in the details, and will learn a lot, either way. The book is very well written, and a great pleasure to read; I highly recommend it, for students, fans, and teachers!	2005-09-30
US	52008283	R2PZP2KOHSUIFI	B000B773XE	39392806	ILLUSTRATED ENCYCLOPEDIA OF ANIMAL LIFE 16 Volumes Complete	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Classic of Natural History	This is a rare book about the natural history of the animal kingdom, that was written 50 years ago, but can still be read with pleasure today. I love its fascinating descriptions and beautiful line drawings. This book is delightful, accurate, and still one of the best introductions to the wonder and variety of the natural world. It is written so clearly that it can be understood and enjoyed by any intelligent and curious child or adult, but also has enough detail and interest to be valuable to students and teachers at any level!<br /><br />Volume I - Mammals<br /><br />Volume II - Mammals (continued), Birds, Amphibians and Reptiles<br /><br />Volume III - Fishes, Insects, and other Invertebrates<br /><br />Highly recommended for homeschoolers, students, teachers, and everyone else who loves good writing about our natural world.	2005-09-30
US	52008283	R26W94YM7ORSHD	0415260116	629719639	Early Dynastic Egypt	Books	4	19	22	N	Y	A Professional Reference - "General Readers" Beware	\\"Early Dynastic Egypt\\" is an excellent - indeed, probably indispensible - professional reference. However, it isn't necessarily suitable for most \\"general readers,\\" even those who already know something about ancient Egypt.<br /><br />The amount of factual detail in this book is overwhelming, as befits a scholarly work, but there is not enough interpretation or explanation to make the archaeology come alive for a non-professional reader. The book's lack of illustration (other than confusing line drawings of early dynastic seals) is another minus, both for scholars and general readers alike.<br /><br />I was also surprised at Wilkinson's non-quantitative treatment of the archaeological record. Important numbers like population estimates and enclosure dimensions seem largely absent from this book.	2004-12-21
US	52008283	R3OJJFPE6B1ZZX	8124601453	523146175	An Encyclopaedia of Hindu Deities, Demi-Gods, Godlings, Demons and Heroes	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Ultimate Guide to Hindu Iconography	It would be hard to exaggerate the vastness of this iconographic guide to the Hindu pantheon. Over 1600 pages long and spread over three mighty volumes, the book provides iconographic information (color when painted, number of heads/arms/legs, posture, attributes, etc.) for over 2,000 Hindu divinities. Volume I contains an iconographic article for each deity; Volume II contains the reverse, a set of \\"deity identification tables\\" that allow the intrepid researcher to search for deities that correspond to a given iconography. Additional material includes tables of divine geneology, yantra identifications, and 250 sculptural illustrations.<br /><br />This is a specialty volume, of interest mostly to scholars who are involved with Hindu iconography on a professional basis.	2004-10-10
US	52008283	RWY3CQZ3NOBMA	1585674931	706012112	The Empire Of Tea	Books	3	17	23	N	N	An Immoderate View of a Moderate Brew	\\"The Empire of Tea,\\" written by Cambridge University cultural anthropologist Alan MacFarlane, combines the general history of tea consumption, and its impact on civilization, with the particular history of tea production in the Indian state of Assam under the British Raj.<br /><br />According to MacFarlane, consumption of tea was vital in sustaining the imperial population growth of China, Japan, and Great Britain. Boiling water for tea, the argument goes, destroyed many water-borne pathogens (cholera, etc.) that would otherwise have decimated these populations in the era before modern sewage treatment. Moreover, drinking tea (rather than alcoholic beverages, the only other alternative to \\"raw\\" water) avoids the harmful effects of overconsumption of alcohol. Thus it was, that Tea became, in Macfarlane's view, almost literally  the fuel of the British Empire.<br /><br />The author explains that tea's benefits came at a high cost, namely, the imperial depradations of Great Britain in their effort to obtain control over this vital resource. One example was the Opium War, which was fought to equalize the trade balance between Great Britain and China (basically, opium for tea). However, Macfarlane expends his greatest passion on the exploitation of native tea-workers in Assam. Several chapters sustain this argument, which seems motivated, at least in part, by the author's family connection to tea farming in that province.<br /><br />It might fairly be argued that this book exaggerates both the benefits and the social costs of tea cultivation. On the plus side, the reader will come away with an increased appreciation of the large role which this seemingly ordinary beverage has played upon the world stage.	2004-09-19
US	52008283	R3SEWTPZSFGD67	0198153112	74211003	Chryselephantine Statuary in the Ancient Mediterranean World (Oxford Monographs on Classical Archaeology)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Great Book for Specialists	First, a reader alert - this is a superb work of scholarship, but its price and specialized nature may put it out of the reach of most readers.<br /><br />The book is divided into two parts. The first, a set of chronological essays, reviews in detail what is known about ancient Roman and Greek chryselephantine statues (that is, gold and ivory composites) based on archaeological evidence,  physical survivals, and the testimony of ancient authors. The second part consists of supporting material: a catalogue with about 250 photographs of 50 physical survivals (mostly bits and pieces); approximately 230 extracts from ancient authors (quoted in the original language, with translation); a list of attested statues (whether surviving or not) with references; and an extensive bibliography and index.<br /><br />The scholarship throughout is of the highest caliber, and provides exhaustive discussion of current and previous work on the subject, by way of contextualizing the author's own research and conclusions. The chapter on Phidias' \\"Athena Parthenos\\" in particular is a revelation, serving both to clear away an amazing amount of prior speculation, and to refocus attention on what is actually known, or can be reasonably surmised, about the work.<br /><br />It will be very difficult to write about this subject in the future, without referring to Lapatin's masterful volume. This is an essential book for comprehensive art-history libraries, and for specialists in the subject.	2004-09-19
US	52008283	R3GO264ESJLOZ4	8124600619	516061882	Dictionary of Buddhist and Hindu Iconography	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Welcome Reference Work	Bunce's Dictionary is a welcome reference work, whose line drawings have been frequently copied on the Internet. The book defines and comments on many iconographic elements (hand positions, body positions, attributes, etc.) found in Buddhist and Hindu art, with particular attention to alternate spellings and bibliographic references.<br /><br />While some mention is made of the deities which might display an attribute, such information in the Dictionary is rather sketchy. If you want to play \\"name that god,\\" the book you want is Bunce's \\"Encyclopedia of Hindu Deities,\\" not Bunce's \\"Dictionary of Buddhist and Hindu Iconography.\\" The two books complement each other, and do not overlap.<br /><br />Bunce's definitions gave me food for thought. According to Bunce, for example, the well-known prayer mudra should really be called \\"namaskara mudra\\" rather than \\"anjali mudra;\\" in another example, he defines the Buddha's \\"urna\\" as a mole on the forehead, rather than as a tuft of hair on the forehead.<br /><br />The book is recommended for scholars and serious students, especially in combination with the same author's \\"Encyclopedia of Hindu Deities.\\"	2004-09-03
US	52008283	R1LPMRH3P6LHHC	2080135589	377106715	Buddhism: Flammarion Iconographic Guides	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A Great Resource	Frederic's book has been marketed as a general guide to Buddhist iconography, but don't be confused: it is actually an illustrated encyclopedia of the gods and goddesses of Japanese Esoteric Buddhism. As such, it succeeds admirably, and belongs on the shelf of everyone who is interested in the subject, including professionals and students of Buddhism and Asian art, as well as enthusiastic temple-goers who are living or visiting in Japan. The book answered many of my questions, and it had lots of information that I was looking for, but couldn't find elsewhere.<br /><br />There are a couple of slips in the English paperback edition; for example, the statue of Tentoki in Kofuku-ji (p. 277) is mis-captioned as a \\"dragon\\" (he's really, of course, a demon). Overall, though, this is a great book to have if you've ever wondered who all those multi-headed, multi-armed, deities are!	2004-09-03
US	52008283	R2ILBOV5PDQ17V	0892365994	431799509	Understanding Greek Vases: A Guide to Terms, Styles, and Techniques (Looking at Series)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Understanding Greek Vases	Understanding Greek Vases, published by the Getty Museum, is a compact reference guide that provides the essential background (painters, styles, terminology) needed to study and appreciate ancient Greek vases.<br /><br /> The major part of the book consists of short (half-page), encyclopedia-style, entries for Athenian potters, vase-painters, ceramic styles, and other essential terminology. Coverage, although limited to Athenian pottery, is broad and expert, ranging from &quot;bilingual vases&quot; to &quot;Six's technique.&quot; Entries are generously illustrated, mostly in color, by important examples (including many &quot;name vases&quot;) from museum collections in the U.S. and abroad.<br /><br /> What really sets this book apart is that the individual entries are so extensively cross-referenced, that they look and feel more like a hypertext-linked web site than a conventional book. For example, if you look up the entry for the &quot;Brygos Painter,&quot; you'll get cross-references in the text to three other Cup-painters, to Cup-painting itself, to the Pioneers, to Workshops, to Attribution, to Kylix, and to seven illustrations.<br /><br /> This is an amazingly effective reference, one that I will use often at home, and take with me whenever I go to look at Greek vases in a museum. Tip: don't plan to read it cover-to-cover like an ordinary book. Begin with some topic that interests you, and follow the cross-references as you would with a Web page.	2004-08-01
US	52008283	R2FT4MFMR1MKNW	1578517095	526432296	Changing Minds: The Art and Science of Changing Our Own and Other People's Minds	Books	3	21	23	N	N	An Outline Of A Theory	In this book, prolific and influential Harvard psychologist Howard Gardner sketches out a framework for thinking about changes of mind. In chapters 1-3, Gardner introduces seven factors that influence changes of mind. Remaining chapters provide examples from different levels of society: national, institutional, educational, interpersonal, etc. A lot of ground is covered very fast.<br /><br /> Readers who buy the book in hopes of getting practical tips on how to influence others, are likely to be disappointed. It is really more of a theoretical (though easy-to-read) outline than a practical how-to book. Although it is issued by the Harvard Business School Press, and written (as Gardner says in the preface) for a business audience, there are very few actual business examples in the book.<br /><br /> The book deliberately ignores the more-harmful ways of changing minds such as propaganda, fanaticism, fear, and terror. This is unfortunate, since in today's world the defence against harmful ideology takes on the utmost importance. Also neglected, although briefly mentioned, is the increasingly pervasive effectiveness of rhetoric in so many areas of life: politics, advertising, culture, business, and law, to name but a few. Finally, the book would have benefited if it had made contact with the emerging science of mimetics, the study of &quot;how ideas colonize minds.&quot;	2004-07-26
US	52008283	R2RG6Y2QD4NLGM	1853322105	134698663	Human and Divine: 2000 Years of Indian Sculpture	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	A Small Touring Exhibit	&quot;Human and Divine: 2000 Years of Indian Sculpture&quot; is the catalogue of a small British touring exhibit (year 2000; venues only in Great Britain) of Indian sculptures. The exhibit consisted of 75 pieces in total. The selections printed in this catalogue, most of them of reasonably good quality, were well-chosen to include examples from various regions and time-periods. However, the small size of the catalogue (only 80 pp.) seems to have defeated the best intentions of its organizers. Only 43 of the 75 touring sculptures are pictured, and insufficient space was allocated to their description.<br />Erratum: On page 60, the meditating Jain saviour (catalog #65, photo p. 64) is identified correctly as Rishabha, but for the wrong reason: his vehicle is the bull, depicted on the fold of cloth in front of his throne, not the lions which are depicted beneath his throne.	2004-07-16
US	52008283	R25YGZZ0DZ7HCA	0892366869	55281721	Sculpture in the National Archaeological Museum, Athens	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Professional Resource	&quot;Sculpture in the National Archaeological Museum, Athens&quot; is a large-format book which catalogues 800 ancient Greek sculptures on display in the National Archaeological Museum of Athens. The catalogue proper is prefaced by a 30-page introduction to the chronological development of Greek sculpture, and by 30 full-color, full-page photographs of some of the museum's best-known pieces. Remaining photographs, in the catalogue itself, are in black-and-white.<br />The catalogue describes the museum's 800 displayed sculptural holdings (as with all museums, many more, of course, are not on display) in chronological order. Within each given time-period (the Mature Archaic, for example), catalogue entries are further grouped by category into sculptures in the round, grave reliefs, votive reliefs, and other reliefs. This scheme is a welcome change from the haphazard organization (e.g. by acquisition number) which used to confront the professional researcher.<br />Individual catalogue entries are printed in a blessedly uniform format: catalogue number, popular title, museum inventory number, material, find-spot, dimensions, physical description, assigned date, photograph, and -- another great boon to the researcher -- bibliography, that is, a listing of scholarly articles that discuss that particular sculpture.<br />Black-and-white photographs, many of them archival, identify individual sculptures. They are printed with admirable clarity. Typical sizes range from 2&quot; x 4&quot; through 6&quot; by 10&quot;. Only 84% (670 of the 800) catalogue entries are photographed; rationale for the many omissions is not discussed in the book, but I assume it has something to do with monetary considerations + the fragmentary or damaged nature of the omitted sculptures.<br />The physical description of all catalogued sculptures includes damage/restoration, paint remnants, visible details of costume, and even the scientific identification of specific muscle groups. As someone who reads this stuff for fun, and who has read every word of this catalogue, I can testify that its printed descriptions are highly accurate, and closely match the visible photographic evidence.<br />I hope that I have written enough to show that this catalogue is an invaluable professional resource, hence my five-star rating of it. This is not at all a &quot;coffee-table&quot; book for the general reader.<br />In closing I would like to acknowledge Dr. David Hardy, who has produced a wonderfully clear and idiomatic English translation. He has set a standard, of fluency combined with accuracy, which any translator in the future can only hope to emulate.who reads this stuff for fun, and who has read every word of this catalogue, I can testify that its printed descriptions are highly accurate, and closely match the visible photographic evidence.<br />I hope that I have written enough to show that this catalogue is an invaluable professional resource, hence my five-star rating of it. This is not at all a &quot;coffee-table&quot; book for the general reader.<br />In closing I would like to acknowledge Dr. David Hardy, who has produced a wonderfully clear and idiomatic English translation. He has set a standard, of fluency combined with accuracy, which any translator in the future can only hope to emulate.	2004-07-16
US	52008283	R3OT263RM1YKOQ	0500051224	693092211	Genesis of the Pharaohs: Dramatic New Discoveries Rewrite the Origins of Ancient Egypt	Books	5	17	21	N	Y	The Nile and the Desert	Ever since Herodotus wrote that &quot;Egypt is the gift of the Nile,&quot; people have focused on the river as the locus of Egyptian civilization. Lately that's changed, with amazing discoveries in the Western and Eastern deserts (which were actually grassy plains 6,000 years ago, when Egypt got started.)<br />Wilkinson's book directs our attention to the former Eastern savannah, now a desert, between the Nile and the Red Sea. In pre-historic times there was enough rainfall to support grasses and game; the region was populated by semi-nomadic people who made a living from cattle herding and hunting. The early pastoralists migrated here annually from temporary settlements on the east bank of the Nile, taking advantage of unique resources available at different times of the year: fishing, farming, and clay (for making pottery) near the river, and minerals, game, and pasture for their flocks on the savannah.<br />It is here, Wilkinson asserts, that we can find some of the earliest evidence for Pre-Dynastic Egyptian lifestyles, beliefs, imagery, political organization, and religion. Much of it comes from rock art, which was incised on the walls of rock shelters above the ancient stream beds. Petroglyphs show the wild and domesticated animals upon which the people's livelihood depended; scenes of the hunt; of herding; afterlife beliefs, most notably the funeral boat on which the deceased symbolically rode to the heavens; and gods with their distinctive feathered plumes.<br />For those who love art history, it's especially gratifying to note the large part that iconographic analysis has played in establishing the probable origins of Egyptian civilization, and the lifestyle and beliefs of the earliest Egyptians.<br />A fascinating and easy-to-read book, this will be enjoyed by just about everyone, from general reader to specialist, who is interested in prehistory, rock art and the origins of ancient Egypt.	2004-07-13
US	52008283	R3NBETQK9HNWB9	0500203636	383181255	Art of the Andes (World of Art)	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	Balanced and Astute	This book stands out, among many others, for the quality of insight that Rebecca Stone-Miller brings to her study of Andean art. Not content with simple typology and iconography, her account is illuminated by the cultural constants - &quot;duality,  reciprocity, hierarchy, and embeddedness in nature&quot; (p. 218) that she finds in the underlying Andean cultures. Art history, in these terms, becomes an exploration of meaning, both of the art that is produced and of the culture that produces it. It's rare to find so much insight in an introductory book; I highly recommend it.<br />Another strength of the book is the nicely-judged balance of attention that the author pays to the multitude of cultures (including the Chavin, Nasca, Moche, Wari, Tiwanaku, Chimu, and Inca, to name just some) that weave together into the Andean tapestry. The author also provides balanced coverage of all the arts -- metalwork, tapestry, featherwork, stone working, and architecture, in addition to the ever-popular ceramics (pottery).<br />With so much ground to cover, there are relatively few individual ceramic examples in the book; this unfortunately gives a too-restricted an idea of the range of form, beauty, and variety of Pre-Columbian pottery from South America. I recommend a book such as &quot;Ceramics of Ancient Peru,&quot; by Christopher B. Donnan, as a supplement to Rebecca Stone-Miller's study.<br />A small number of errors have made it through the second edition. For example, the distance from Quito to Santiago is quoted as 3400 miles, rather than the correct 3400 kilometers. A bothersome number of specialized terms were left out of the index. A glossary would have been helpful, and one wishes that more of the photos had been printed in color rather than black and white.<br />In summary, &quot;Art of the Andes&quot; is a balanced and insightful survey that should appeal to a wide variety of readers. It's the kind of book that doesn't just sit on the shelf after one reading, but gets picked up again, thumbed through, and read more than once.but gets picked up again, thumbed through, and read more than once.	2004-07-07
US	52008283	R1HSAPS5UUOM9R	0300077874	587794325	Reading the Pre-Raphaelites	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A Competent Introduction to the Pre-Raphaelites	&quot;Reading the Pre-Raphaelites&quot; has been on the market for five years now (as of 2004), and continues to hold up well as an introduction to Pre-Raphaelite painting. People who are already familiar with Pre-Raphaelite Art (and its copious bibliography!) will not find too much here that is new, but for the not-yet-expert, this book works well in presenting many of the essential Pre-Raphaelite themes and paintings in an orderly and easy-to-understand manner.<br />The book is organized topically, with separate chapters on Pre-Raphaelite medievalism, nature painting, modern life, religious painting, and Post-Pre-Raphaelitism (the latter including Whistler, Burne-Jones, and the Aesthetic Movement.)<br />The author tosses in a bit of &quot;critical theory&quot; from time to time, and on occasion can be judgmental about individual works. These negatives, though, are easily overcome by the author's clarity of writing and competence of interpretation, which lucidly ground these paintings in their social and artistic milieu. The book's bibliography and index are marginal, but the quality of its color printing is exceptional, much better than in many more expensive art books.<br />In summary, this book would be a good buy for the student or other reader who wants a general, thematic introduction to the Pre-Raphaelites.	2004-07-01
US	52008283	RWTAFOCJXEE3P	0446529834	943775996	Heaven	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A Riot of Ideas	&quot;Heaven,&quot; by Ian Stewart and Jack Cohen, is a science-fiction novel of ideas. Its philosophical themes include the mimetics of religion, quantum-mechanical entanglement, and the ecology of mind. But this is no dry academic exercise: it takes the reader on a wild ride with an exciting plot, psychologically plausible characters, and a galaxy full of truly amazing aliens. If you are looking for well-written speculative fiction that tickles your brain cells, you'll really love this book!	2004-06-29
US	52008283	RWCS0Q4KZH9BK	0500203040	96062234	Etruscan Art (World of Art)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	An Introduction to Etruscan Art	The format of this survey of Etruscan art is typical of Thames and Hudson's (publishers) &quot;World of Art&quot; series: concise (200pp.), inexpensive, unevenly illustrated (186 photos, but only 37 in color). Author Nigel Spivey arranges his material in chronological order, from Villanovan Etruria (Early Iron Age, 1000 - 750 BC) through successive waves of Greek influence and Roman conquest, ending around 90 BC when the Etruscan cities had become thoroughly Roman in outlook and culture. A final chapter provides brief but interesting glimpses into historical responses to the Etruscan legacy, from Cosimo di Medici to D. H. Lawrence and the modern (and ancient) Italians.<br />The book is up-to-date (as of 1997) and interestingly written in a sometimes-aphoristic style, with a useful bibliography. As I closed the final page, I was left wanting more (and missing some old favorites, such as the Capitoline Wolf, that did not make it into the book). However, considering its inexpensive price and overall quality, it can certainly be recommended to readers who would like an introduction and overview of Etruscan art.	2004-06-22
US	52008283	R2WO0IW5JZE3OY	0521388503	410533762	Sumer and the Sumerians	Books	3	49	51	N	N	Dry As Dust	The cover blurb for &quot;Sumer and the Sumerians&quot; indicates that it is written &quot;primarily for a non-specialist audience,&quot; but this is misleading; the book is actually an introductory textbook for university-level courses in Sumerian archaeology. As such, its primary scope is to introduce and summarize the archaeological evidence related to Sumerian chronology, settlement patterns, secular and religious architecture, grave goods, manufacturing, trade, and writing.<br />The book is written almost exclusively from an archaeological perspective. The outstandingly rich literature and art of ancient Sumeria is barely glanced at in passing. The book's prose is dry and academic, and it is illustrated meagrely, with black-and-white line drawings. Unless you are already deeply interested in Sumeria and the Sumerians, this book is unlikely to kindle your enthusiasm.<br />Although it can't be recommended for the general reader, serious university students will benefit from the book's high standard of scholarship and clear, if uninspiring, exposition. When used as a college text, it will need to be supplemented by visual aids and additional resources on the art, literature, and religion of Sumeria.	2004-06-17
US	52008283	R1O8B11DYS6Y4V	8175083360	358460760	India Series: Hampi (India (Antique Collectors Club))	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A Medieval Empire	The rich and powerful Hindu empire of Vijayanagara (mid-14th to mid-16th century), covering South India from coast to coast, excited the admiration of Islamic and European visitors alike: \\"The city... is such that the pupil of the eye has never seen a place like it, and the ear of intelligence has never been informed that there existed anything to equal it in the world\\" wrote Abdul Razzaq, a 15th-century envoy from Persia. Today, what is left of this once-great capital is preserved as a huge archaeological site (9 square miles in extent) that takes its name from the modern village of Hampi. Beautifully well-preserved features include temples, reviewing stands, elephant stables, bathing pavillions, aqueducts, reservoirs, giant statues of the elephant god Ganesh and the Vishnuite lion-avatar Narasimha, and the thrilling landscape of the Tungabhadra river valley with its surrounding hills, granite boulders that seem to have dropped from the sky, and legendary association with the home of Hanuman, the monkey hero of the Ramayana.<br />John M. Fritz and George Michell, as the directors for more than 20 years of the Vijayanagara Research Project, are ideally equipped to present this site to visitors. Beginning with 50 or so pages on the history, layout, architecture, etc. of Vijayanagara, the book continues with a 70-page tour of the site, and concludes with 30 pages of archival material (medieval visitors' reports, and selected early photographs of Alexander Greenlaw). Geared to the general reader, this illustrated guidebook is compact, inexpensive, and useful to have in hand when visiting the site.	2004-06-08
US	52008283	R1QUWRJ522O69H	0375412883	331182632	The Fabric of the Cosmos: Space, Time, and the Texture of Reality	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Spacetime Physics For Everyone	Brian Greene is a phenomenon; a leading string theorist at Columbia U., he's somehow found enough time, in a full schedule of research and teaching, to write two best-sellers and honcho a major PBS special about this formerly recondite, but now very well-known indeed, field of contemporary physics. What's his secret?<br />First of all, he's writing about things that every intelligent and inquiring person wants to know more about: Time's Arrow - why is time such a one-way trip? Big Bang cosmology - how did the Universe get started? Grand Unification - what is the ultimate physical description of Nature?<br />Secondly, he writes about these things in such a way that non-physicists can understand them. No equations, just a patient, careful, and clear explanation of some of the most fascinating, important, and new ideas in contemporary particle physics and cosmology.<br />Greene talks up, not down, to his readers. There are a lot of books about popular physics on the market today, and many of them are quite good. What makes this book special is how Greene manages to get inside the reader's head, by explaining things in a way that makes sense, and by anticipating and answering so many of the questions that a reader might have about these ideas. I really wish that I had Prof. Greene as a teacher when I studied this stuff in school!<br />One hint about reading this book - do pay attention to the notes, because they are an essential part of the book. Think of the book as the &quot;lecture,&quot; and the notes as the &quot;question and answer.&quot;<br />I'm happy to add my praise to the chorus for this very good book. You can judge my sincerity from the fact that I originally borrowed it from the local public library, but after reading it all the way through, I then went out and bought a copy for myself!	2004-05-14
US	52008283	R14HRTIJ7IGYPV	0316525901	437002087	A Hole in Texas: A Novel	Books	4	42	42	N	N	Now for something really different...	This novella is unusually interesting, because it brings together two themes which are rarely found even apart, let alone together, in American fiction: Particle Physics (the Superconducting Supercollider and the search for the Higgs Boson), and Senior Romance (age 60+). I can recommend it for most readers, even for those of us who are not 70-year-old particle physicists (I am neither, although I do know one or two people who are both). It is an entertaining glimpse into how this esoteric .00001 percent of the world lives - just like the rest of us, which is the whole point.<br />The book is very light-hearted. Its romance elements are &quot;G&quot; rated, the particle physics is passed-over trippingly, and its two themes are tied together by a non-serious plot involving some nefarious Capitol Hill doings and a 60-year-old Congresswoman with really great legs.<br />A major character (and romance interest) in the book is a female Chinese particle physicist, and every once in a while, the book inadvertently (I think!) pops up some stereotypes about female Asian/Pacific Islanders - their &quot;youthful&quot; appearance, other things about their appearance, intelligence, attraction to particle physics, etc. It is not a large part of the book, but the author's mild case of &quot;Asiaphilia&quot; seems worth mentioning for the sake of any readers who might be made uncomfortable by this.<br />Be that as it may, most readers will enjoy this quick and amusing book, which finds the human interest in a rather esoteric occupation!	2004-05-08
US	52008283	R1E2U2R9DBVLGE	0500051208	496481360	The Complete Gods and Goddesses of Ancient Egypt	Books	4	157	158	N	Y	A Plethora of Deities	Richard Wilkinson's latest book (he has previously written &quot;Reading Egyptian Art,&quot; &quot;Symbol and Magic in Egyptian Art,&quot; and &quot;The Complete Temples of Ancient Egypt&quot;) presents the reader with an impressive selection of all the major gods and goddesses, and many of the minor ones, of ancient Egypt. Although hardly &quot;complete&quot; in the technical sense (Wilkinson discusses &quot;only&quot; 500 of Egypt's 1500 or so deities, and much more could be said about the ones he does discuss), the book is fairly &quot;complete&quot; in a practical sense: most gods that most readers want to look up, will get at least a brief mention. For example, you will find here the 24 Hours of the Day and Night, 12 (of 21) Gates of the Underworld, all 42 Gods of Judgement, and all 42 (hmm... there's that number again!) Nome Deities.<br />The book begins with twelve brief essays (4-6 pages each) on Egyptian religion, covering such topics as creation myths, manifestations of divinity, temple and popular worship, and divine kingship. The essays are thoughtful, informative, and up-to-date with current scholarship. I wish they had been longer, because they deserve to be expanded at greater length than the book allocates to them.<br />The rest of the book, some 180 pages, is devoted to a &quot;Catalogue of Deities,&quot; organized by biological shape (anthropomorphic male and female, mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish, insects, and inanimate objects). This is a great idea, but it could have been taken even further. A visual index of shapes would make lookup much easier, and would only take an additional page or two. A name index is, of course, provided. Why not give a hieroglyphic index as well?<br />Going to the individual entries, Wilkinson generally provides information about the mythology, iconography, and worship of each deity. The deities are generously illustrated, with line drawings and photographs. Again, I would wish that many of these entries could be expanded, both in terms of discussion and in terms of visual iconography. This is not a criticism of Wilkinson; it just reflects the practical limitations of the book.<br />To summarize, Wilkinson's &quot;Gods and Goddesses&quot; is a very well-written, thoughtful, accurate, beautifully produced and illustrated reference on the religion of ancient Egypt. In terms of coverage it is somewhere between a handbook and an encyclopedia. I am very glad to have it in its present form, and I only wish that it had been much longer, since it is clear that Wilkinson has more to say about this subject than could fit into the covers of the present book. I would gladly pay double the price to have a truly complete encyclopedia of Egypt's gods from this author.ld be expanded, both in terms of discussion and in terms of visual iconography. This is not a criticism of Wilkinson; it just reflects the practical limitations of the book.<br />To summarize, Wilkinson's &quot;Gods and Goddesses&quot; is a very well-written, thoughtful, accurate, beautifully produced and illustrated reference on the religion of ancient Egypt. In terms of coverage it is somewhere between a handbook and an encyclopedia. I am very glad to have it in its present form, and I only wish that it had been much longer, since it is clear that Wilkinson has more to say about this subject than could fit into the covers of the present book. I would gladly pay double the price to have a truly complete encyclopedia of Egypt's gods from this author.	2004-05-02
US	52008283	R3RHQEHGWO54AC	0195145925	637128035	The End of Time: The Next Revolution in Physics	Books	2	27	33	N	N	The End of Time	The essential idea from Julian Barbour's book is that the laws of physics can be formulated in such a way that time does not enter explicitly into the equations. If we accept this idea for the moment (and not all physicists do), the question then becomes: is making time disappear in this way just a mathematical trick, or does it lead to better physics?<br />Barbour has taken on an especially difficult task in trying to explain these esoteric concepts in a work of popular science. The book doesn't succeed, in my view, and the most I can do here is give him credit for trying. My negative review does not reflect any disagreement with his ideas - it is up to his peers in physics, not me, to decide whether he is on to something or not. I just don't think he's succeeded in putting his ideas across to a general audience. The book is so wordy, and its exposition so plodding and foggy and vague, that it is hard to imagine that most people would get much out of it.<br />I really don't like to write negative reviews, but sometimes they can be useful in steering readers away from books that are likely to frustrate and turn them off. Barbour is a respected physicist, an original thinker, and an interesting person, whose life trajectory has taken him far from the typical academic career. But I really hope he'll take on a co-writer, somebody who knows how to write clearly and informatively about popular science, on his next book.	2004-04-10
US	52008283	R2M3EYBYBEC4OU	2879390206	533900799	The Pharaohs: Master Builders	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The Pharaohs: Master-Builders	A reader might expect from its title that this book would be a history of Pharaonic architecture. Really, though, it is more of a standard history of Egypt that is illustrated with photographs and descriptions of the usual variety - pyramids, Sphinx, temples, tombs. Both the history and the photographs are competently done, but there isn't much here that is new, or that hasn't been covered as well or better in other surveys.<br />For me, the best part of the book is its generous selection of  19th century copies, of ancient tomb paintings, by the likes of Rosellini, Champollion, and Belzoni. This is a great idea! The copies were made when the ancient paintings were still fresh,  vivid, and undamaged. The meticulous copies give us an impression of how lively and vivid the originals must once have been, before their current and unfortunate exposure to moisture, air, and tourists.<br />The book contains some quite annoying errors. For example, on p. 115, a painting of Isis in Horemheb's tomb is misidentified as Hathor, in spite of her speech formula that reads, &quot;words spoken by Isis!&quot; On page 118, the same goddess is misidentified as Nut. On p. 80, Amun is characterized as a &quot;sun god.&quot; On p. 148, the name of Ramesses II is both transliterated and translated incorrectly.<br />In spite of these problems, I wound up keeping the book for its selection of tomb scenes. The publisher also deserves credit, for bringing out such a well-produced and well-illustrated book at a very reasonable price.	2004-04-09
US	52008283	R38L32JS87K54E	2879391172	214741199	The Gold of the Pharaohs	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The Gold of the Pharaohs	Most books on the art of Ancient Egypt focus on &quot;great works&quot; - pyramids and temples, sculpture, and painting. The art of the goldsmith tends to be relatively neglected, except for a few well-known masterpieces like King Tutankhamun's golden coffin,<br />for the simple reason that most Egyptian goldwork was melted down in antiquity by the Egyptians themselves, as tomb-robbers<br />&quot;recycled&quot; the treasure of the Pharaohs. There are barely enough ancient examples still remaining to form a just appreciation of the richness of this ancient art.<br />Stierlin's book has chapters on Tutankhamun, the Middle Kingdom  and Ramesside New Kingdom, Tanis, and the Late Period. Hundreds of artifacts - rings, pectorals, bracelets, statues, coffin masks, and the like - are lavishly illustrated and discussed in detail. The history of discovery is not neglected, and the techniques used by ancient artisans are explained. Evidence is also presented from tomb paintings of many objects which did not survive over the centuries, but which were more intricate and complex than any remaining examples.<br />If the book has a weakness, it is that Stierlin treats the iconography of these pieces only superficially. For example, in the pectoral of Ahmose on p. 119, the gods lustrating Pharaoh are identified only as Ra and Amun; technically, they are Ra-Horakhty and Amun-Ra. Hieroglyphs and symbolic formulas, even the most important that appear over and over on these pieces (djed, was, mery-, shen, djet, etc.), are not translated, and are mentioned, if at all, only in passing. There are a few typos of the &quot;B.C.&quot; for &quot;A.D.&quot; variety. Finally, it is inconvenient that the translator chose to retain many older and now less-familiar &quot;Greek&quot; names for the Pharaohs - &quot;Sethos&quot; instead of &quot;Seti,&quot; &quot;Amenophis&quot; rather than &quot;Amenhotep,&quot; &quot;Khephren&quot; for &quot;Khafre,&quot; etc.<br />To summarize, readers of this book will surely enjoy its beautiful photographs and illustrations, and will come away with a better appreciation of the goldsmith's art in Ancient Egypt. If you love gold and fine jewelery (and who doesn't?), you will probably like this book!will surely enjoy its beautiful photographs and illustrations, and will come away with a better appreciation of the goldsmith's art in Ancient Egypt. If you love gold and fine jewelery (and who doesn't?), you will probably like this book!	2004-04-09
US	52008283	R3JB03F0N1FAQJ	0834805081	667018431	Guide To Northern Thailand And The Ancient Kingdom Of Lanna	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Other Thailand	Northern Thailand, the location of the ancient kingdom called Lan-na whose capital was at Chiang Mai, is less well-known than Bangkok and the south. However, now that interest and tourism in this area is increasing, there is more of a need for information about this part of Thailand; Freeman's book is both timely and welcome.<br />As with the other books in Freeman's series, this is a guide to the temples, not a full-service guidebook. You still need a Fodor's, Lonely Planet, or whatever guidebook to plan the day-to-day practicalities of your stay. Once you get there, however, you will find Freeman's book to be essential in deciding what to see and in understanding what you are looking at. His expertise, writing, and photography remain unsurpassed.<br />The only criticisms I have about the book are that (1) it lacks a glossary (I recommend you jot down the definition and page location of unfamiliar terms, the first time they come up; you will thank yourself later,) and (2) the index is not up to par (for example, there is no index entry for the Emerald Buddha.)<br />But these are only minor criticisms. If your travels or studies take you to the temples of Chiang Mai and Northern Thailand, this book will be a very useful and valued companion.	2003-12-22
US	52008283	R8CV05JPK4BCH	0500051232	338339953	The Seventy Great Mysteries of Ancient Egypt	Books	5	67	69	N	N	An Ancient Egypt FAQ	&quot;Seventy Great Mysteries of Ancient Egypt&quot; is an unusual book - a collection of seventy very condensed essays (4-5 pages each) about pre-dynastic Egypt, Egyptian burial practices, kingship, history and religion, and the Bible. The book is quite well produced, with numerous color photographs.<br />The organization of this book is highly innovative. Most books on ancient civilizations can be classified either as histories (example: Peter Clayton's &quot;Chronicles of the Pharaohs&quot;) or as topical studies (example: Barbara Watterson's &quot;Gods of Ancient Egypt.&quot;) This book is radically different. It begins, like all true learning, with questions: Who was Nefertiti? Was the Exodus myth or reality? Who robbed the Valley of the Kings? The FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) has long been a staple of computer science, but I have seldom seen it applied so thoughtfully and so well to the study of an ancient civilization.<br />You'd think that a book like this might be both narrow (only 70 questions? Come on!) and shallow (only 4-5 pages per question!) But actually neither is the case. In terms of coverage, Egyptian art and sociology (especially non-royal women and the working class) are slighted, but other than that, the book's essays sample a remarkable variety of Egyptian life and culture. The covered topics include basic information about ancient Egypt (&quot;Were the pyramids built by slaves?&quot;), ongoing investigations (&quot;The Sea Peoples: raiders of refugees?&quot;), popular/fringe topics (&quot;Are the pyramids aligned with the stars?&quot;), and a few obscure but interesting things that I, at least, had never heard of before (&quot;Khababash, the guerrilla king.&quot;)<br />As for depth of coverage, in a few short pages per topic the authors are not able to get into much detail (thousands of book-length studies have been written just about Nefertiti, for example), but on the other hand, the authors have read those thousands of books so that we don't have to; their essays are accurate, reliable, absolutely up to date (as of 2003), and - because they are written by experts in each topic - will contain some information that even other Egyptologists may not be aware of.<br />Whether you are a beginner or expert on Egypt, there is sure to be something in this very innovative book to please and delight you. Highly recommended!e don't have to; their essays are accurate, reliable, absolutely up to date (as of 2003), and - because they are written by experts in each topic - will contain some information that even other Egyptologists may not be aware of.<br />Whether you are a beginner or expert on Egypt, there is sure to be something in this very innovative book to please and delight you. Highly recommended!	2003-12-12
US	52008283	R1FJYO94KQLKTC	0300064861	273453057	Unlocking Mallarmé	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Unlocking Mallarme	The poetry of Stephane Mallarme, leader of the French Symbolist movement, has long been recognized for its beauty and difficulty, and a hundred years of subsequent critical studies have added much heat (and, sometimes, a little light) to its  interpretation. Mallarme would be delighted, since his was a poetics of deliberate complexity, in which the ostensible subject often became little more than a pretext for working out his brilliant and difficult technique.<br />Graham Robb's contribution begins with an observation that, while most poets favored end-words with many rhymes, Mallarme favored end-words with the fewest possible rhymes - thus setting a deliberate challenge for himself - and often built his poems around the hundred or so key words in French which have no rhyme at all (a full list is provided in the book.) Furthermore, he asserts that Mallarme often determined the individual rhyme-words (not just the rhyme scheme) before beginning the poem! These observations are explained in detail in Part I of the book; Part II analyzes selected poems in terms of his theory. Surprisingly, Robb is able to draw many pertinent conclusions about the meanings of individual poems from this kind of analysis; he convinced me that this approach does add measurably to the reader's understanding.<br />Recommended for folks with a good command of French (in addition to the poems, there are numerous untranslated French-language quotes in the book.) In addition, the prospective reader should  previously have read Mallarme's poems -- this book is not an introduction. Finally, some interest and patience is helpful to follow the details of Robb's prosodic analysis. The reward at the end of the journey is that the reader will enjoy Robb's graceful prose (this is a technical book but not at all a dryly technical one), and will come away not only with Robb's particular interpretations, but also with a technique of &quot;reading&quot; Mallarme that many readers will find helpful in their own exploration of these great but elusive poems.own exploration of these great but elusive poems.	2003-12-10
US	52008283	R3IJJHQID47LYZ	0393313875	760425235	Balzac: A Biography	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	The Napoleon of Literature	All biographers have to figure out a workable balance between exploring their subject's personal life, works, and societal context. With a man like Balzac this can be exceedingly difficult, because everything about the man - his personality, his writings, and his milieu - are so much larger than life that it seems almost impossible to do them justice.<br />In this life of Balzac, Graham Robb concentrates on Balzac's psychology. We are confronted with the great writer's enormous ego (he considered himself to be &quot;the Napoleon of literature&quot;), his astonishing output, his many love relationships with older women, and his grandiose failures in business. We see a man so driven that at one point he moved his cot into the printer's shop, keeping the presses going 24 hours a day as he corrected proofs while simultaneously writing new chapters!<br />Robb traces all this activity back to the roots: Balzac's innate, and nearly infinite, self-regard pouring endlessly into the emotional void induced by a disturbingly unaffectionate mother. Balzac becomes, therefore, a man who had to write, so much so that even his business failures and debts were self-inflicted, a subconscious way of spurring himself on to ever greater literary effort just to keep one step ahead of the creditors.<br />Throughout this biography, Robb uses extensive quotation to allow Balzac's novels to illuminate his life, and vice-versa.  The resulting dialogue between the life and the works is both exciting and nuanced - indeed, so nuanced that Robb's book needs to be read carefully in places. It will also be helpful if the reader is on familiar terms with as many of Balzac's novels as possible - there are over 90 of them! Even readers who have read several of the novels in the past, would do well to refresh themselves before tackling this biography. Three good places to start would be &quot;Le Pere Goriot,&quot; &quot;Eugenie Grandet,&quot; and &quot;La Cousine Bette,&quot; as they are  representative of his best and Robb refers to them frequently. It's not always easy going, but readers who can meet the prerequisites will surely enjoy this fine and insightful biography.ative of his best and Robb refers to them frequently. It's not always easy going, but readers who can meet the prerequisites will surely enjoy this fine and insightful biography.	2003-12-03
US	52008283	RXBNJ33SE27AR	0385495536	856042771	Sailing the Wine-Dark Sea: Why the Greeks Matter (Hinges of History)	Books	3	28	32	N	N	A Near-Miss	Thomas Cahill's primer of Classical Greece will attract a lot of interest from fans of this series, which began with his popular \\"How the Irish Saved Civilization.\\" The book focuses on classical Greek culture - Homer, the theatre, philosophy, and art. The choice of topics is standard, the treatment conventional rather than inspired, the writing breezy and informal (including an annoying amount of slang.) Really there is nothing new here, but on the positive side, the book does provide a basic level of information about ancient Greece to  readers who are lacking it.<br />Cahill's discussion of sexuality in ancient Greece is quite explicit; it includes frank translations of obscene Greek verse, explicit images of sexual activity on Greek vases, and blunt explanations of who is doing what to whom, complete with those good old Anglo-Saxon \\"four-letter words\\" in case anybody doesn't get the point.<br />Superficial generalizations and analogies (between Solon and Franklin D. Roosevelt, between Pericles and John F. Kennedy, between the Peloponnesian War and the Second Gulf War) detract from the exposition, and illuminate neither ancient times nor our own.<br />The book contains several minor lapses, and at least one \\"howler:\\" on page 189, Cahill astonishingly asserts that the battle of Thermopylae \\"proved the decisive turning point of the war, preventing the Persian army from descending on Greece.\\" Of course, Thermopylae did no such thing; after several days of heroic Spartan resistance, the Persians finaly overran the  position, poured into Attica, sacked Athens, and burned the Acropolis to the ground.<br />Other lapses include the idea that Minoan palace civilization was destroyed by the eruption of Thera (from archaeology, we now know that the Minoans rebuilt afterwards); a regrettable confusion between hetairai and Geishas (the Japanese Geishas were purely entertainers, and did not provide sexual favors to their clients); and a failure to mention the most probable reason that Socrates was put to death (namely, that he was on the losing (pro-Spartan) side of the political division that appeared in Athens following its defeat by Sparta in the Peloponnesian War.)<br />In summary, while Cahill is enough of a classicist to give us some of his own translations from the Greek, and although he has presented a good selection of topics for an introductory audience, there are enough lapses in the book that it seemed like a disappointment compared to others in this series.son that Socrates was put to death (namely, that he was on the losing (pro-Spartan) side of the political division that appeared in Athens following its defeat by Sparta in the Peloponnesian War.)<br />In summary, while Cahill is enough of a classicist to give us some of his own translations from the Greek, and although he has presented a good selection of topics for an introductory audience, there are enough lapses in the book that it seemed like a disappointment compared to others in this series.	2003-12-02
US	52008283	R2Z9FDO86C9QJV	067003245X	674102062	Swann's Way	Books	4	166	171	N	N	Duelling Translations	Those of us who love Proust - either from long acquaintance, or from reading him for the very first time - can count ourselves fortunate in now having two very fine English translations to work from: the classic Moncrieff/Kilmartin rendition of the complete novel, and the new Lydia Davis translation of &quot;Swann's Way.&quot; I've read and enjoyed both, because each brings something special and valuable to the work.<br />Davis is a breath of fresh air, being more literal (while still literary!) in that she follows the original French syntax and meaning more closely. I liked her translation, and applaud it. Normally, such a fine translation would be my first choice. However - and I admit this is a very subjective judgement - I was long ago seduced by the sheer beauty of Moncrieff/Kilmartin, and therefore cannot love the Davis translation quite so much. Of all authors, Proust requires us to surrender to the beauty of his language. Davis' translation is, for me, more likeable than loveable.<br />Really, it's an old (and impossible to resolve!) conflict between the more literal and the more &quot;poetic&quot; type of translation. I've dealt with this myself, in trying to translate Baudelaire, and there's no perfect answer. One thing I'd suggest (if you haven't read MK) is to get the MK translation of Swann's Way, now available in a very inexpensive paperback, along with Davis so that you can get a feel for both ways of appreciating Proust's great and magnificent work.	2003-11-15
US	52008283	R2ZKSVFI355K2S	0500021171	210608023	Angkor and the Khmer Civilization (Ancient Peoples and Places Series)	Books	5	82	84	N	Y	Angkor and the Khmer Civilization	The great Khmer Empire, best known for its astonishing temples at Angkor, has long fascinated visitors, arm-chair tourists, and scholars alike. In his new book, &quot;Angkor and the Khmer Civilization,&quot; archaeologist Michael Coe has written what I believe is, simply, the best current (2003) presentation of the history and culture of this wonderful (literally: full of wonders) ancient civilization. Reading Coe's book is like having a delightful one-on-one conversation with a first-rate thinker, scholar, and teacher. Coe's writing is superbly well-organized, logical, fascinating, concise, and comprehensive. The book is enhanced by numerous high-quality photo illustrations and maps, fully referenced bibliography and notes, and a better-than-average topical index.<br />Most importantly, this book is obviously a labor of love. Coe, a well-known Mayanist, returns here to his first love, the archaeology of southeast Asia; although political circumstances (e.g.: the Vietnam War, the Pol Pot regime) prevented him from digging in the field, Coe has mastered the literature and  walked the sites; his book illuminates the full chronological sweep of Khmer history and culture, from its prehistoric beginnings through the post-Classic period, as never before. It is intellectually exciting, a pleasure to read, and sure to delight anyone from the casual tourist to the experienced professional. Put it together with Freeman and Jacques' &quot;Ancient Angkor,&quot; and you have the perfect companions for your next trip to Angkor.	2003-11-15
US	52008283	R3VKEHCVKPJ6LH	0330337076	236344024	Victor Hugo	Books	4	35	37	N	Y	Some Background Required	Graham Robb's magnificent bio of Victor Hugo has won numerous awards, and deservedly so; Robb has steeped himself in Hugo's works and life. It's all there - Hugo's greatness, his megalomania, his politics, his poetics, his personal life - stripped of the many false accretions of previous biographies. Robb sees Hugo clear, and he sees him whole. My only reservation - and I think it is a fairly significant one - is that Robb assumes that his readers are already familiar with Hugo's immense literary output (not just Notre-Dame de Paris and Les Miserables, but dozens and dozens of other books of poetry, novels, biography, politics, etc.). And Robb also assumes that his readers know something about the tortuous and very complicated course of 19th century French politics, from the Revolution to the Third Republic. This is a lot of background to assume of the general reader, and so - by all means get the book, it's the best existing biography of Victor Hugo, but be prepared to do some additional reading if necessary, to fill in the background that Robb takes for granted.	2003-11-15
US	52008283	R1U4261U43E4I6	0813335329	632758690	A Peaceful Realm : The Rise And Fall of the Indus Civilization	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	A Peaceful Realm	The overused adjective &quot;mysterious&quot; certainly applies to the ancient Indus Valley civilization, because far less is known about these people than about other ancient civilizations such as Egypt and Mesopotamia. Much basic excavation work remains to be done, and the Indus Valley script remains undeciphered.<br />Author Jane McIntosh meets this challenge by combining the best of current scholarship with her own wide-ranging and thoughtful analysis, to produce an appropriately tentative, yet consistent and plausible, view of the Indus civilization. In the author's own words, &quot;it was an exceptionally well integrated state, in harmony with its environment, where warfare was absent and everyone led a comfortable existence under the benevolent leadership of a dedicated priesthood.&quot; These conclusions are developed step-by-step throughout the book, with chapters on the rise and fall of the Indus civilization, farming, crafts, urbanization, religion, society, writing, trade, and contributions to the later civilization of India.<br />The writing throughout is clear, understandable, and objective. The author includes and evaluates an impressive variety of types of evidence, from archaeology to anthropology and linguistics, and approaches this controversial subject with a disciplined, yet open and undogmatic, mind.<br />In a field where so much remains to be done, it is always possible that future discoveries will radically change our view of the Indus civilization. &quot;A Peaceful Realm&quot; is an excellent synthesis of current knowledge about Indus studies, and can be recommended to anyone interested in the Indus in particular or ancient civilizations in general.	2003-11-09
US	52008283	R2D36WO0766HGL	0300098723	445553264	Buddha: Radiant Awakening	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Radiant Awakening	&quot;Buddha: Radiant Awakening&quot; is the catalog of an exhibition of Buddhist art held at the Art Gallery of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia from Nov. 2001 to Feb. 2002. The exhibit featured 132 objects from various museums and private collections, and focused exclusively on images of the Buddha in stone sculptures, bronzes, and paintings from China, India, Southeast Asia, Japan, and Tibet, with dates ranging from 200 A.D. to the present.<br />In connection with the interesting and beautiful objects featured in the exhibition, this catalog contains a lot of  information about Buddhist iconography that is hard to find elsewhere, and is conveniently organized here in a single book.<br />Contents include images and articles about: the historical Buddha (Shakyamuni), Buddist cosmology (Pure Lands, Heavens), the five Transcendent or Dhyani Buddhas (Vairocana, Amogasiddhi, Ratnasambhava, Akshobhya, Amitayus), Amitabha (the Buddha of the Western Paradise), Maitreya (the Buddha of the Future), Bhaisajyaguru (Japanese &quot;Yakushi,&quot; the Buddha of Healing), and other Buddhas imaged in the Theravada, Mahayana, and Vajrayana systems of worship. Conceptually, the catalog is unified by the idea of the forms of Buddha radiating through cosmic time and space.<br />The exhibit's focus on images of Buddha means that the rest of the Buddhist pantheon (Bodhisattvas, Guardians, etc) is touched upon only in passing, but has the advantage of allowing a deeper exploration of its central subject. For general readers, this book will get you &quot;up to speed&quot; really fast, while students and scholars will appreciate its expert commentary and references to current scholarship. Plus, you get large-format photographs of the objects in the exhibition. Highly recommended for anyone who loves Asian art!	2003-11-04
US	52008283	R1NPIARRODHG3X	0060174099	487895349	Antiquity: The Civilization of the Ancient World	Books	3	46	56	N	N	The Condensed Version	I was really looking forward to reading this book, having read and learned much from Cantor's previous books on the Middle Ages. As for the present book, in Cantor's own (rather grandiose) words, &quot;This book is an attempt to communicate to the educated reader and to students of history some basic knowledge about antiquity from 2.5 million years ago - the dawn of humanity - to the fall of the Roman Empire in the fifth century A.D. ... focusing on the Mediterranean and Western Europe... [Part I] lays out the fundamental knowledge about antiquity that every educated person should possess.&quot; (p. ix) Unfortunately, this book does not meet its stated goals, and its reach far exceeds its grasp.<br />The first 50 pages consist of very brief (6-7 pages each) essays about Egypt and the Middle East, Greece, Rome, classical philosophy, Christianity, and the decline and fall of Rome. The remaining 150 pages cover the same material, all over again. The most successful are Chapter 10, on ancient Judaism, and Chapter 14, on the Civil Law. Chapter 13, an imaginary dialogue featuring Saint Augustine of Hippo, is also of interest. The exposition is admirably clear throughout.<br />On the other hand, there is little continuity between chapters, and an amazing amount of error, muddle, and hyperbole along the way. Reviewer Jennifer Sposito has accurately identified many of these &quot;Cantorisms;&quot; here are just a few more.<br />1. &quot;humans reached Europe... about 10,000 BC. Earlier [sic!], around 6000 BC,... civilization had emerged in the Near East.&quot; (p. 4) Humans reached Europe about 35,000 years ago. The Venus of Willendorf (Austria) dates to 30,000 BC. Chauvet painted cave dates to 18,000 BC. In the Middle East, Jerico (a walled city with perhaps 1,000 inhabitants) dates to 8000 BC.<br />2. &quot;[Hebrew] monotheistic theology that resembled that of Pharaoh Akhenaton&quot; (p. 7). Hebrews did not worship the Sun Disk. The Hebrew god was *invisible*.<br />3. &quot;[Athens'] physical monuments... [on] the Acropolis - are now closed to tourists.&quot; (p. 10) The Acropolis remains accessible, in the midst of ongoing restoration.<br />4. &quot;From the Egyptians, the Athenians learned literature, art, and religion.&quot; (p. 11) The Greeks learned literature from Homer, art and architecture from Crete, and religion from the Aryans (Indo-Europeans).<br />5. &quot;There is really no evidence that [Alexander] initially set out to develop a new multiethnic, universal citizenship.&quot; (p. 14) Alexander took a Persian wife, required every man in his army to do the same, and set himself up as a universal monarch on the Persian model.<br />6. &quot;[Alexander] was a great general; he was also very lucky.&quot; (p. 14) Alexander won because of superior technology (siege engines), military genius, and God-like (as all the ancient biographers attest) personal charisma.<br />7. &quot;Tiberius and Gaius Gracchi&quot; (page 166). Make that, &quot;Tiberius and Gaius Gracchus.&quot;<br />8. &quot;[Hagia Sophia] is today a somewhat musty and run-down museum.&quot; (page 211) Please go and see for yourself this glory of the ancient world. I promise that you will not be disappointed.<br />In summary, you might want to give Cantor's &quot;Antiquity&quot; a quick read-through for its chapters on Judaism, Civil Law, and Augustine; but the thing to really have from this author is his Medieval History (newly revised), a standard that ought to be on everybody's bookshelf.t;[Athens'] physical monuments... [on] the Acropolis - are now closed to tourists.&quot; (p. 10) The Acropolis remains accessible, in the midst of ongoing restoration.<br />4. &quot;From the Egyptians, the Athenians learned literature, art, and religion.&quot; (p. 11) The Greeks learned literature from Homer, art and architecture from Crete, and religion from the Aryans (Indo-Europeans).<br />5. &quot;There is really no evidence that [Alexander] initially set out to develop a new multiethnic, universal citizenship.&quot; (p. 14) Alexander took a Persian wife, required every man in his army to do the same, and set himself up as a universal monarch on the Persian model.<br />6. &quot;[Alexander] was a great general; he was also very lucky.&quot; (p. 14) Alexander won because of superior technology (siege engines), military genius, and God-like (as all the ancient biographers attest) personal charisma.<br />7. &quot;Tiberius and Gaius Gracchi&quot; (page 166). Make that, &quot;Tiberius and Gaius Gracchus.&quot; <br />8. &quot;[Hagia Sophia] is today a somewhat musty and run-down museum.&quot; (page 211) Please go and see for yourself this glory of the ancient world. I promise that you will not be disappointed.<br />In summary, you might want to give Cantor's &quot;Antiquity&quot; a quick read-through for its chapters on Judaism, Civil Law, and Augustine; but the thing to really have from this author is his Medieval History (newly revised), a standard that ought to be on everybody's bookshelf.	2003-11-01
US	52008283	R5ALDNYI2FZ3N	0500202656	154540666	Buddhist Art and Architecture (World of Art)	Books	4	23	24	N	Y	Revised Edition (2002)	The 1993 edition of Fisher's &quot;Buddhist Art and Architecture&quot; was reprinted, with revisions, in 2002. The cover of the revised edition is like the 1993 edition (i.e. the Kansas Guanyin), but now framed within a diamond-shape which is inset into a black background. The text is current on recent scholarship, such as the role of aniconism in Early Buddhist art, and cosmological interpretations of Angkor Wat. Attention is paid to the organic development of Buddhist art styles as they evolved in being transmitted from country to country, although I wish that even more emphasis had been put on this.<br />The book is organized by region: of its 200 pages, approximately 40-50 pages each are devoted to India, China, Korea/Japan, and Southeast Asia. The book's wide area coverage is both an advantage and a disadvantage, since much has been left out. For example, there is only one paragraph on the life of the Buddha himself, and not even a mention of Kinkaku-ji (Golden Pavillion), arguably Japan's most famous and beautiful architectural icon. I would also have liked to see a greater use of color illustrations (only 32 of 179, in the present edition).<br />I hope that readers who start with this book will go on to more  in-depth treatments, such as the same author's excellent introduction to the Art of Tibet (Thames &amp; Hudson, 1998).	2003-10-31
US	52008283	R3RA05ESASA5UG	0500203083	377567707	Art of Tibet (World of Art)	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	A Great Introduction	The beautiful and complex art of Tibet accepts many stylistic influences from other countries, including India (Pala, and later even the Mughal Empire), Nepal, Kashmir, and of course, China. Iconographically, it draws on the incredibly complicated Tibetan (Vajrayana) Buddhist pantheon, in which innumerable gods, originally from Hindu India, are first recycled through the esoteric doctrines of Mahayana Buddhism, then redoubled to add their Tibet-specific divine consorts and guardians, and finally redoubled again to add all the monks, lamas, arhats, founders, and followers of each of four major monastic (teaching) orders and their many sub-lineages.<br />Fortunately, we have Fisher's book to help guide us and start to make sense of it all. The author begins with an overview of the Tibetan pantheon - Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, Protectors, revered humans - and goes on to review the major forms of expression in architecture, painting, and sculpture. These are followed by a chronological survey of the art of Tibet, from the 11th to the 19th centuries. The book contains 180 illustrations, half of which are in color. Many of the black-and-white photographs depict wonderful objects which, sadly, have not survived into the present day.<br />Because there is so much detail in Tibetan painting, the small format of the illustrations (page size 6&quot; x 8&quot;) can be a disadvantage. Another caution is that a book this size (200 pages) can't possibly answer all the questions that even a beginner might have. Within its size limitations, however, the author has done a good job of illustrating and discussing the essentials of this art; the book is a real bargain at the price. I used it as a quick &quot;refresher&quot; before seeing  the &quot;Himalayas&quot; exhibit (2003, Sackler Gallery, Washington, DC), and in general I think the book would be helpful and enjoyable to just about anyone who is looking for an introduction or review of the art of Tibet.	2003-10-23
US	52008283	R1L25R1QF7E09V	0060530758	743465468	Art: A New History	Books	3	135	154	N	N	Art - A New History	\\"Art: A New History,\\" by historian and arts writer Paul Johnson, takes the reader on an ambitious survey of Western art (non-western art is touched upon only briefly, and then only as it impinges upon European consciousness.) Johnson, although not a professional art historian, both knows and loves his subject, and proves throughout to be an urbane and enthusiastic, if rather opinionated, guide. (Johnson has seen the 20th century, and does not approve.) Painting, sculpture, and architecture are included. The book's 300 color photo illustrations are a little small, but finely printed.<br /><br />In terms of coverage, the book tries to do too much; it crams in numerous items of secondary import, but does not leave adequate room to discuss the most important topics in depth. The result is almost paradoxical - a lengthy, yet rapid and shallow, run-through. There are only ten pages on the Impressionists, and no mention of Raphael's \\"School of Athens\\" or Masaccio's seminal frescoes in the Brancacci Chapel. Johnson explains in his preface that he had wanted to include much more material, which presumably would have gone to redress such imbalances, but was unable to do so for practical reasons (the publisher balked at making the book any larger than it already is.) Unfortunately, one of the parts that got eliminated was the book's notes and bibliography, and this makes the book less than useful for scholarship or study.<br />There are some errors in the book which seem to have been  propagated from older reference works: Shah Jehan actually built the Taj Mahal for himself, not for his wife; and the Vatican's \\"Apollo Belvedere\\" is now considered to be a Roman copy, not a Greek original. Definitions of technical terms are not always careful. For example (page 84), the book's definition of \\"contrapposto\\" asserts baldly that \\"the bent leg is forward.\\" Actually, in contrapposto, the foot and lower part of the bent leg is set back, relative to the straight leg, with only the knee and thigh projecting slightly forward.<br />In terms of suggested audience, the book does not seem suitable for students or beginners, because it readily assumes that the reader is already familiar with the artists and works discussed; nor is it likely to please the professionals, since it offers no new contributions to scholarship. This leaves, as a potential audience, the hypothetical cultured reader who has seen much art, who would like to run through it again in chronological order, and who might find in Johnson a congenial and philosophically compatible guide.d thigh projecting slightly forward.     <br />In terms of suggested audience, the book does not seem suitable for students or beginners, because it readily assumes that the reader is already familiar with the artists and works discussed; nor is it likely to please the professionals, since it offers no new contributions to scholarship. This leaves, as a potential audience, the hypothetical cultured reader who has seen much art, who would like to run through it again in chronological order, and who might find in Johnson a congenial and philosophically compatible guide.	2003-10-19
US	52008283	R3KTSRZKRK18U8	0834804867	210057319	Burma's Lost Kingdoms: Splendors Of Arakan	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Ancient Arakan	Located on the Bay of Bengal, between Bangladesh and Cape Negrais, lies the Rakhine State of Burma, formerly an independent kingdom known to the West as Arakan. Its geographic position allowed the kingdom to absorb a multitude of artistic influences from Buddhist, Hindu, and Muslim lands: the Himalayas, India, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Cambodia, and Burma itself. &quot;Burma's Lost Kingdoms&quot; explores the convergence of these many influences on the art, archaeology, and iconography of Arakan, with particular emphasis on the ancient capitals of Dhanyaawadi, Vesali, and Mrauk-U. Site plans are included, along with a bibliography and glossary. Gutman is a careful and clear writer; I especially appreciated her thoughtful and informative description of the sculptures (both on-site and in museums and collections) which are illustrated in the book.<br />It seems that Arakan is relatively unknown in the West, perhaps being overshadowed by the more spectacular and accessible temples and art of Pagan and other major sites of Southeast Asia. Gutman's fine book, aided by the excellent photographs of Zaw Min Yu, shows that Arakan has its own charms which are worthy of interest. I came away from the book with an increased appreciation for this little-known corner of Southeast Asia, and can recommend it both for students of SE Asian art, and for the more adventurous travellers to Burma.	2003-10-19
US	52008283	R12FP1LDSX8PFH	0071357432	239747537	Lost Languages: The Enigma of the World's Undeciphered Scripts	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Lost and Found Languages	If I could have any one thing come to pass (within reason) in linguistics, it would be a decipherment of the Indus Valley script. But no matter what your personal obsession - Rongorongo, perhaps, or Linear &quot;A&quot;, or maybe just a basic interest in how linguists try (and sometimes succeed) to decipher the unknown writings of the world - there is likely to be much in &quot;Lost Languages&quot; that will interest and entertain you. It is primarily an introduction to the subject for the general reader, although it seems likely that even a specialist will not necessarily be familiar with all the languages included here.<br />Robinson begins with the story of three formerly undeciphered scripts that have now been (more or less) successfully deciphered: Egyptian hieroglyphs, Linear B, and (to a somewhat lesser extent) Mayan glyphs. This sets the stage for short chapters on important but so-far undeciphered scripts: Meroitic, Etruscan, Linear A, Proto-Elamite, Rongorongo, Zapotec, Isthmian (Mexico), Indus Valley, and the Phaistos Disc. Robinson shows how the principles of decipherment have been applied to these scripts, explains why they remain largely undeciphered at present, and offers a reasoned estimate of their chances for successful decipherment in the future.<br />As an introduction to the field of decipherment this is, I think, a very successful book. Naturally it lacks the details to be found in more specialized studies, but Robinson clearly articulates the basic principles of decipherment and their application to these very interesting scripts. Examples are given for the reader to work out, and other examples show how would-be decipherers, both famous and not-so-famous, have sometimes gone wrong. One could only wish for the inclusion of more scripts (why not cunieform?) and more in-depth coverage, but as an introduction, &quot;Lost Languages&quot; fulfills its purpose admirably. Maybe someone who reads this book will &quot;catch the bug,&quot; go on to more advanced study, and - who knows? - someday find the key to one of these enigmatic writings.advanced study, and - who knows? - someday find the key to one of these enigmatic writings.	2003-10-12
US	52008283	RO3FR2OVQ05QA	0834805243	798628465	Sacred Angkor: Carved Reliefs Of Angkor Wat	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	The Carved Reliefs of Angkor Wat	The magnificent reliefs of Angkor Wat, wrapping around the temple walls for over 1/3 of a mile, have long fascinated visitors and scholars alike. Among recent books about the carvings, Roveda's (2003) study sets a new standard of excellence:<br />1. By concentrating only on the reliefs, Roveda is able to provide a more detailed and in many ways more satisfying analysis than most.<br />2. In addition to the major long reliefs of the third enclosure, Roveda's book also includes the comparatively neglected corner pavilion, lintel, and pedimental reliefs from elsewhere in the temple.<br />3. The book is appropriately illustrated, with over 250 good-quality black and white photographs.<br />4. The author quotes full translations of inscriptions associated with the reliefs.<br />5. The author, who has previously written a book on Khmer mythology, provides lengthy summaries of numerous stories from the Puranas, Mahabharata, Ramayana, etc. which pertain to the reliefs.<br />6. The author, while proposing many new identifications for particular reliefs, also refers generously to other scholars with possibly different interpretations; the reader gets the full range of the best current thinking on the subject.<br />7. Roveda's writing is very clear and easy to understand.<br />It is rare to find a book which is so valuable for the general reader and the scholar alike; I highly recommend it; and for those who plan to visit Angkor, it is a book that you will surely want to take with you.	2003-10-11
US	52008283	REQHUQ3MMQ1ER	069401043X	388288451	Six Wives: The Queens of Henry VIII	Books	4	10	13	N	N	The Queens of Henry VIII	Author David Starkey relates, in his introduction, how this book began as a short(!) warm-up to a projected biography of Henry VIII. As he uncovered new facts and reconsidered old interpretations, the scope of the book expanded into a major, lengthy (750 pages of text + 50 more pages of notes), and rather ambitious study of that monarch's six marriages.<br />While building appropriately upon previous scholarship, Starkey does not hesitate to provide correction where he feels that earlier writers have gone astray. His own writing is fluent, in the best traditions of narrative history, and peppered here and there with the dry wit that is characteristic of Cambridge dons.<br />After reading through the details of their lives,  I felt that I had come to know the Queens much better as people - their characters, strengths, weaknesses, aims, and concerns. On the other hand, in terms of the overall history, there is so much to absorb that I sometimes felt (as the cliche goes) that I wasn't quite seeing the forest for all the trees.<br />In reading this book, it will be very helpful if the reader already knows something about 16th century English and European history. Much essential background (especially relating to the Reformation in Europe, and the political events of Henry's reign) is assumed, or only mentioned in passing, by the author.<br />The book is a quick read for its length, and combines detailed scholarship with a flowing narrative style. I would recommend it to almost anyone who is interested in Henry's wives and who wants to delve deeply into the history of these powerful, ambitious, and accomplished women.	2003-10-05
US	52008283	R2AO1H0P0DJT3R	0195160932	602486295	Shakespeare: For All Time (Oxford Shakespeare)	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Shakespeare: For All Time	Stanley Wells' latest book combines two genres: Biography (Shakespeare), and History of Theatre (Shakespeare). It is a history of Shakespeare from his time to ours, including Shakespeare's life and subsequent theatrical performance, but excluding critical analysis and interpretation of the plays.<br /><br />The first 100 pages present a minimalist biography of the great playwright - &quot;minimalist&quot; in the sense that Wells sticks close to the (relatively few) facts that are known, or can be judiciously inferred, about Shakespeare's life, avoiding any temptation to pad out or speculate where the facts will not stretch. I found this approach to be refreshing and useful; it clarified for me what is actually known about Shakespeare's life, versus what has been inferred (or imagined) in other biographies.<br />The remainder of the book deals with the history of Shakespeare in performance, from the playright's time down to the present day, both in England and (in less detail) abroad. The history of the original texts of the plays, their theatrical revisions (or mutilations), the theatres, producers, actors, and critical and popular responses (including Hollywood) are discussed. Given the potentially unlimited scope of this topic, Wells' treatment is brief, selective, and to the point (for example, Joseph Papp's seminal New York &quot;Shakespeare in the Park&quot; is given one sentence in the book.)<br />To summarize, Wells has, a bit unusually, combined a brief but thoughtful biography of Shakespeare, with an introductory history of Shakespeare in performance. It's a fluently written and engaging overview, and as such, I think that many Shakespeare aficionados, as well as students of the history of theatre, will want to have it.	2003-10-01
US	52008283	RL7M51IHP6XJR	0312314485	491513634	Caravaggio: A Novel	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Caravaggio in the Raw	Caravaggio was in many ways a &quot;raw&quot; human being, and Peachment's novel of the painter's life reflects this aspect of his subject: if this novel were a movie, it would be rated &quot;X&quot; for language, sex, and violence. The narrator of the novel is Caravaggio himself, who retells his life - or rather, I must say, Peachment's fantasy of his life - in an extended address to the reader. Mystery, rage, painting, murder, alienation, and  debauchery are all grist for the novelist's mill. Baudelaire would have loved it.<br />Peachment is a new novelist, but an experienced arts writer, and we should not underestimate him. In the course of his narrative, the author describes every one of Caravaggio's known paintings, and usually in a way which I found interesting and even illuminating. He emphasizes always the circumstantial and concrete, rather than the &quot;aesthetic,&quot; aspects of the works; indeed, the most important chapter of this book describes an incident in which the painter destroys one of his canvases, in rage against the intellectuals and aesthetes who love his art for all the wrong reasons. It's a valuable perspective, and one which we all can learn from.<br />On the other hand: Peachment's writing is episodic, with awkward transitions between short chapters; there is repetition, ranting and raving, and pure fantasy; it seems a very one-sided portrait, even for a novelist, of Caravaggio the artist and the man. On the whole, while I appreciated what Peachment was trying to do, I felt somewhat distanced from the book, even as I was turning its pages. I'm glad that I read it, and feel that it had some valuable insights to offer, but somehow I could not love it; perhaps those who knew Caravaggio, in his lifetime, felt the same way!	2003-09-28
US	52008283	R2XMJSGHHFDOIN	0821813757	300442847	Classical Galois Theory, With Examples	Books	4	21	22	N	Y	Classical Galois Theory	Classical Galois Theory deals, in essence, with the solutions to polynomial equations. Its applications are spectacular, including the algebraic result that some polynomial equations of degree &gt;= 5 can't be solved in radicals, and the geometrical result that the cube can't be doubled by ruler-and-compass constructions. Today Galois theory is tought very abstractly, such that advanced mathematics students can follow the proofs, but perhaps will have difficulty in working out concrete problems. Lisl Gaal's book (1971) admirably fills in this gap. It contains numerous practical exercises, and it is much easier to read and understand than most contemporary textbooks on the subject.<br /><br />The book does not require any significant prerequisites, since it develops the necessary background of group theory and field theory from scratch. It can be read and understood by any bright undergraduate mathematics major. I've studied Galois Theory from more advanced textbooks, but feel that I've understood it better for reading Gaal's book and working out the numerous exercises in it. I would recommend this book very highly as a supplementary text to any undergraduate course in abstract algebra, and even as a refresher for graduate students who are studying for their prelims.	2003-09-28
US	52008283	RDH9ZMTDNBXMY	0834805332	555424547	Buddhist Murals Of Pagan: Timeless Vistas Of The Cosmos	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	The Buddhist Murals of Pagan	Burma's ancient capital of Pagan is a UNESCO world heritage site consisting of over 100 medieval (9th century - 13th century) Buddhist temples, decorated inside and out with stunning architecture and floor-to-ceiling paintings. At last, thanks to Claudine Bautze-Picron and her photographer husband, we have an up-to-date art-historical documentation of these rare and beautiful murals, that is both accessible and affordable to the general reader.<br />The centerpiece of the book, for most readers, will be its 254 full-color photographs of the murals. You have never seen the murals like this, even if you have previously visited Pagan; paintings which are typically lost in the darkness of temple interiors, and obscured in shadowed corners and dim recesses, are here illuminated in superb detail and full color rendering.<br />Equally valuable is the book's expert text. In the first half of the book, the author explains the basic iconographic elements of the temples (Buddha and his life, Bodhisattvas, other celestial beings, and additional decorations) and shows where and how they are located in particular temples. Part two of the book describes the decoration in each temple, and can be used as a  guidebook if you are visiting the site. Experts will especially appreciate the scholarly endnotes that expand on themes asserted in the body of the text.<br />A most important point of this book is that the inside decoration of the temples mirrors the outside. This book does not discuss the outside, but fortunately there is another book, &quot;Imperial Pagan&quot; by Paul Strachan, that explains the outside temple architecture in detail. These two books fit together marvelously well, and I highly recommend that you buy them both together to get the best possible view of the beautiful temples of Pagan.	2003-09-28
US	52008283	R2Z9KGN46MAPWS	1570719047	51342130	The Shadow of God: A Novel of War and Faith	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Shadow of God	What a great book! Goodman's historical novel deals with the siege of Rhodes in 1520 by the forces of the Ottoman Turks, led by Suleiman the Magnificent, who was known as &quot;The Shadow of God&quot; to his subjects. I've seldom read anything in this line that is so exciting, and at the same time so well balanced - not only between the Turks and the Christians, but between the inner and outer lives of its characters.<br />The book immediately places the reader in the middle of the action, from the deafening roar of exploding cannonballs in a besieged city, to the eerie silence of the Sultan's inner court. At the same time - and this is quite remarkable - the reader gains a genuine insight into what it must have felt like to be there and to do and to suffer such things.<br />This clear-eyed and compassionate book represents, to me, the best in historical fiction, an ideal work of imagination in the service of history. It is so accurate and vivid that it could (and should!) be assigned as supplementary reading in college courses. I've been to Rhodes, walked the battlements, and read the history, but for me it is &quot;The Shadow Of God&quot; that made this magnificent past explode into life. At the end of the book, there is a hint that a sequel might be forthcoming; if so, I will be the first in line to read it!	2003-09-27
US	52008283	R175LYBA4AO215	0060199237	304056278	No Bone Unturned: The Adventures of a Top Smithsonian Forensic Scientist and the Legal Battle for America's Oldest Skeletons	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Science Thriller	It's rare for a work of science journalism to read like a thriller, but that old cliche &quot;I couldn't put it down&quot; definitely applies to this book. Writer Jeff Benedict follows Smithsonian forensic osteologist Doug Owsley through some fascinating and at times bizarre investigations in Guatemala, Waco, Jamestown, and the Pentagon (9/11 aftermath). Most of the book, though, is concerned with Owsley's epic six-year legal battle to prevent the federal government from reburying a scientifically important 9,600 year-old-skeleton known as &quot;Kennewick Man.&quot;<br />Combining John Grishom and Indiana Jones, this book will appeal to anyone interested in forensic science, Native American politics, the paleoanthropology of ancient North America, or who just wants to read a rootin' good story.	2003-09-16
US	52008283	R3D7LV3CO1NDPI	0738201413	562068087	From Black Land To Fifth Sun: The Science Of Sacred Sites (Helix Books)	Books	4	28	29	N	Y	From Black Land To Fifth Sun	What can archaeology tell us about the spiritual lives of people who, like the painters of Lascaux cave or the builders of Stonehenge, lived so long ago that only (or mostly) their nonlinguistic material remains - their stones and bones - are left for us to study? Brian Fagan's book is a fascinating exploration, for the general reader, of this highly interesting question. The author takes his readers on a personal tour of various sacred sites, and explains how current methods of scientific excavation and anthropological research can help interpret the cultural meaning of these places and the context of belief and ritual in which they operated. While much of their spiritual content is necessarily unrecoverable in detail - think of trying to understand a cathedral with no missals or Creed - there is, still, much that can be learned.<br />Sites and cultures discussed in the book include: Chauvet, African rock art, Catalhoyuk, Knossos, Stonehenge, Moundbuilders, Egypt, Mayas, and Aztecs (one envies the author his frequent-flyer miles.) The book ranges in space and time from Europe in 15,000 BC, through Africa, and finally to the Americas in 1500 AD. Even so, many well-known sacred places had to be omitted. There is nothing about Malta (a personal favorite of mine), Easter Island, or Asia. Another limitation is that, with so much ground to cover (or uncover), the number of pages devoted to any one site has to be pretty small. The book does not have many photographs, and those that do appear are only in black and white.<br />I found the chapter on ancient Egypt less successful than the other chapters; Egyptian culture is abundantly literate, even from late predynastic times, so that its inclusion in a book of this kind seems superfluous, if not downright odd.<br />Written in 1998, the book still (2003) seems basically up-to-date. The author deserves great credit for producing a popular book which covers such a wide area and is at the same time generally reliable and accurate (although it should be noted that Geb, the Egyptian earth god, is not female as the book claims on page 283. Geb is male, an important exception to the usual concept of an Earth Mother in early societies.)<br />Fagan is of the school of archaeology that applies anthropological concepts and methods to his work. Shamanism, the mother goddess, ancestor cult, sacred-tree cosmology, and astronomical alignments will all make an appearance, although rather conservatively, in these pages. Some readers may feel he goes too far with this, while others may wish that he would take it even farther. I think he gets the balance right, but in any case his reasoning is presented in a clear and straightforward way so that readers can make up their own minds about it.<br />In summary, most readers who are fascinated by these ancient places, and want to learn more about how archaeology and science interpret them, will find this book to be a helpful and very interesting read.ate (although it should be noted that Geb, the Egyptian earth god, is not female as the book claims on page 283. Geb is male, an important exception to the usual concept of an Earth Mother in early societies.)<br />Fagan is of the school of archaeology that applies anthropological concepts and methods to his work. Shamanism, the mother goddess, ancestor cult, sacred-tree cosmology, and astronomical alignments will all make an appearance, although rather conservatively, in these pages. Some readers may feel he goes too far with this, while others may wish that he would take it even farther. I think he gets the balance right, but in any case his reasoning is presented in a clear and straightforward way so that readers can make up their own minds about it.     <br />In summary, most readers who are fascinated by these ancient places, and want to learn more about how archaeology and science interpret them, will find this book to be a helpful and very interesting read.	2003-09-15
US	52008283	RQ59DK4PB0Y5	0521275253	973696291	The Archaeology of Mainland Southeast Asia: From 10,000 B.C. to the Fall of Angkor (Cambridge World Archaeology)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	The Archaeology of Mainland Southeast Asia	This is really two books in one. Its first two hundred pages are about the prehistory of Southeast Asia, up to the emergence of chiefdoms towards the end of the first millennium B.C. An additional one hundred fifty pages take the story forward, from the beginning of state formation and written history through the development (but excluding the art history) of Angkor.<br />Prospective readers should be aware that this is a technical book that is directed to a specialist audience, namely, archaeologists and archaeology students; people who do not fit into either of those categories, may find that the book is too difficult or has more detail than they want.<br />On the other hand, people who are in the book's target audience as described above, should find the book generally suitable as a synopsis of mainland Southeast Asian archaeology (excluding Burma), circa 1989. Detailed site information is presented within a framework whose themes include sedentism, trade, subsistence, social organization, religion and ritual, and access to resources. Continuity of cultural development in Southeast Asia is emphasized, and in particular the origin of civilization in Southeast Asia is seen as a consequence of local and incremental adaptations to Indian religious and political ideas, rather than as a wholesale replacement of indigenous cultural practices by Indian ones.<br />My paperback copy bears the notice: &quot;Transferred to Digital Reprinting 1999&quot;. The book is entirely in black-and-white. The visual appearance of its text is glossy and saturated, but readable. Line drawings show up very well. The quality of photographic reproduction, however, is unacceptable (the same or worse as one might see in a newspaper). However, since its few photographs seem incidental to the text in any case, this need not discourage people from buying the book in its current, &quot;digital reprint&quot;, incarnation.	2003-08-17
US	52008283	R2I6SI0BDO7PCH	0375409459	577523479	Chopin's Funeral	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Chopin In Paris	Eisler's biography is a short (200 pp), well-written, intimate, and moving portrait of composer Frederic Chopin's life in Paris, where he lived from 1831 (age 21) until his death from tuberculosis in 1849. During this time Chopin's private life centered around the notoriously famous woman novelist George Sand, who served as lover, muse, companion, nurse, and substitute mother to the physically weak and emotionally needy composer. The dynamics of this &quot;celebrity&quot; relationship - as spectacular and popular back then as anything in today's tabloids -  are traced with empathy and clarity by the biographer, and related in an interesting and defensible way to the works of both participants.<br />As a biographer, Eisler brings out the positive and the negative traits and behaviors of Chopin and Sand, both as individuals and as participants in the relationship, in such a way that the reader gets to know these troubled, yet fascinating and brilliant, characters as three-dimensional people with all their faults and virtues. By the end of the book, I felt that I had begun to know Chopin and Sand as a friend or close acquaintance might, that is, by feeling and instinct as well as factual knowledge.<br />Eisler manages to accomplish this feat of empathy while sticking closely to the known facts of her subjects' lives, inventing little, and declining the temptation to flights of theoretical  interpretation. The reader is shown everything, and allowed to allocate his or her sympathies where he or she will. The result is a biography which, while it does not break new ground in scholarship, did touch me and acquaint me with the human dimension of these lives.	2003-08-07
US	52008283	R2CAAIB4VWGVAG	1566564395	168717401	A Traveller's History of Southeast Asia (The Traveller's History Series)	Books	4	29	31	N	N	A Traveller's History of Southeast Asia	&quot;Southeast Asia&quot; is in many ways a typical title in this popular British series: a readable and informative introduction to the history of Southeast Asia for students and travelers. The book, again like most in the series, devotes most of its pages to the Common Period (1500 - the present). This is an advantage for the business or political traveler, but a disadvantage for the cultural traveler, since the most interesting and beautiful monuments (Angkor, for example) were built during the earlier Classical Period (500 - 1500), which is discussed only briefly (40 pages out of 340) in this book. So plan on reading other books, in addition to this one, if you want a full view of the panorama of SE Asia's ancient history.<br />In terms of coverage, the &quot;Traveller's History of Southeast Asia&quot; includes most of mainland and island Southeast Asia, with most attention being paid to  Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, Malaysia, and Indonesia. Surprisingly, the Philippines and Burma are not included. I find the latter omission particularly eccentric, given the importance of the monuments at Pagan, and the contention between Burma and Thailand during much of the common period.<br />The book's authors do a fine job of explaining the causes and effects of major trends in the history of Southeast Asia that begin with the era of Western exploration: patterns of colonialism, the impact of trade and migration, Islam, communism, World War I and II, the Vietnam War, nationalism, the regional consolidation into nation-states, political independence, and recent developments (as of 2001). I was impressed by the authors' even-handedness in describing these often contentious events. Their analysis is clear and knowledgeable, and they have no political axes to grind.<br />In summary, &quot;A Traveller's History of Southeast Asia&quot; is a good read, and a useful resource, for all who are interested in the post-1500 history of this fascinating and diverse region.	2003-08-05
US	52008283	R8ONBAH499Z6N	0824813251	983388264	Imperial Pagan: Art and Architecture of Burma	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Imperial Pagan	&quot;Imperial Pagan&quot; is a paperback reprint (159 pages, 8&quot; x 11 3/4&quot; format) of the 1989 hardcover title &quot;Pagan: Art and Architecture of Old Burma&quot; by Paul Strachan. The book provides an in-depth introduction to the Pagan Dynasty (11th-13th century) and its marvelous temples. In Strachan's words, he aimed at  &quot;... greater detail than a pocket guide book, whilst lacking the cumbersome nature of a more detailed and encyclopedic study... such a work has been conceived as being of use to both the scholar and the more interested visitor to Pagan.&quot; I feel that on the whole, the author has successfully met this objective, although the book does require some effort; it is by no means an &quot;easy read.&quot;<br />Pagan is a huge site (2 miles x 3 miles, or more), with thousands of temples and temple remnants. To keep the book manageable, Strachan wisely concentrates on the better preserved and more important temples. His &quot;temple-centric&quot; view will be useful to those who visit and study Pagan, but necessarily omits a great deal of the site context; this is a book of art history, not archaeology.<br />Strachan divides the art history of Pagan into three periods - Early (850 - 1120), Middle (1120 - 1170), and Late (1170 - 1300). Using this overall framework, the book commences with a 30-page introduction to the history, architecture, and iconography of Pagan. Part II, occupying the rest of the book, describes 70 or so of the major temples, arranged in chronological order. Maps, illustrations, photographs (34 color, 149 black-and-white), a glossary, notes, and index are provided.<br />The author is a Scotsman who first visited Burma [Myanmar] in the 1980's, at the age of 18. Falling in love with the place, he returned there after studying art history in college. He has since made it his adopted home, both writing extensively and founding a cultural publishing house and a tour company.<br />The book's major strength is the amount and quality of information that it contains, which makes it quite useful as a reference when visiting or studying the site. Its major weakness, I feel, is stylistic: the complexities of Strachan's sentence structure and exposition make it heavy going at times.<br />Potential readers also need to be aware that this book assumes a basic prior knowledge of Indian and SE Asian art history; topics like the Mon people, Vishnu, and the Pala art of India (to pick just three examples of many) come up frequently in the book, and it is assumed that the reader already has this sort of background knowledge.<br />Clearly, then, this is not a book for the beginner, or for someone with only a casual interest in Pagan. If you are &quot;just passing through,&quot; then one of the standard guidebooks would probably be a better choice. Other than that, I feel that most people who have a substantial interest in SE Asian art, especially those who are fascinated by the &quot;city of temples&quot; that is Old Pagan and want to learn more, will be glad to add this book to their libraries.he amount and quality of information that it contains, which makes it quite useful as a reference when visiting or studying the site. Its major weakness, I feel, is stylistic: the complexities of Strachan's sentence structure and exposition make it heavy going at times.  <br />Potential readers also need to be aware that this book assumes a basic prior knowledge of Indian and SE Asian art history; topics like the Mon people, Vishnu, and the Pala art of India (to pick just three examples of many) come up frequently in the book, and it is assumed that the reader already has this sort of background knowledge.          <br />Clearly, then, this is not a book for the beginner, or for someone with only a casual interest in Pagan. If you are &quot;just passing through,&quot; then one of the standard guidebooks would probably be a better choice. Other than that, I feel that most people who have a substantial interest in SE Asian art, especially those who are fascinated by the &quot;city of temples&quot; that is Old Pagan and want to learn more, will be glad to add this book to their libraries.	2003-07-22
US	52008283	R1JDETOSHNCEO7	0500200602	243484464	The Art of Southeast Asia: Cambodia Vietnam Thailand Laos Burma Java Bali (World of Art)	Books	2	20	21	N	N	Too Out of Date	Rawson's \\"The Art of Southeast Asia\\" was written in 1967, almost forty years ago. The current edition is a 1990 reissue in paperback; no changes or updates were made to the original text, and therein lies a real problem.<br />In the last three decades, there have been tremendous advances in the study of the art and archaeology of SE Asia. This new knowledge has left Rawson's book sadly out of date. (By the way, this is not a criticism of Rawson's scholarship, just a recognition that time marches on.) Unfortunately many of Rawson's interpretations and identifications, which seemed quite reasonable given what was known in the 1960's, are no longer considered correct. For this reason, the book cannot be recommended for most readers.	2003-07-13
US	52008283	R1WI6M9O2UWTHX	0691095515	796338185	Quantum Philosophy: Understanding and Interpreting Contemporary Science	Books	2	22	27	N	Y	Quantum Philosophy	There are many books that aim to explain quantum mechanics to the general public, but Omnes takes a different tack. His goal is nothing less than to provide a scientific foundation for a new philosophy of knowledge (epistemology). This is a big job, and Omnes, a French physicist who has contributed to the theory of quantum decoherence, deserves a gentleman's &quot;C&quot; for making the attempt. Potential readers must be warned, however, that Omnes - quite astonishingly as a physicist writing for a (presumably) non-technical audience - does not take time to  explain the concepts of quantum mechanics (wave function, superposition, decoherence, etc.) which are essential to understanding his discussion. Because of this, it is highly recommended that before tackling Omnes, readers should at least have read a serious popular treatment such as Gribbin or Nick Herbert (to name only two of many).<br />The book under review is the 1999 hardcover translation of Roland Omnes' &quot;Philosophie de la science contemporaine&quot; (&quot;Philosophy of Contemporary Science&quot;), which was written in 1994. A 2002 paperback edition is also available. The book is about 290 pages long. It contains a glossary and index, but does not contain footnotes or a bibliography.<br />The first half of the book tells a well-known story of the rise of empirical physics and mathematics (other sciences are not considered) from the Pre-Socratics through the 18th century in Europe, followed by the triumph of formalism in the 19th century and the first startling developments in 20th century physics. While perceptively and gracefully told, such a rapid review of the history of science has to suffer by the speed with which the author covers 2,000 years of scientific developments.<br />The second half of the book moves to the present in discussing  the implications of quantum mechanics towards the foundations of a new theory of knowledge. These chapters read like a series of interconnected essays, which circle around some rather big ideas: (1) it is possible to recover common-sense knowledge about ordinary objects from the formalism of quantum mechanics, (2) the theory of quantum decoherence is sufficient to dispose of certain well-known problems, such as Schroedinger's Cat, that result from naively applying quantum superposition to classical objects, and (3) there are two kinds of metaphysical entity: a Logos, as represented by mathematics and logic, and a Reality, as represented by physics.<br />Omnes' key point in all of this, is that the future theory of knowledge will be solidly grounded on a firm scientific basis; but he himself admits that the presentation in this book is only the start of a sketch of such a grand plan.<br />In summary, while I found some things of interest in the book, and appreciated its graceful and literate writing style, I was put off by a general superficiality and incompleteness of treatment, an inadequate explanation of concepts, and especially by the author's unfortunate and all too frequent resort to bald &quot;proof by assertion&quot; instead of the discussion, give-and-take, and scholarly references which are expected even in a popular or semi-popular work.ted essays, which circle around some rather big ideas: (1) it is possible to recover common-sense knowledge about ordinary objects from the formalism of quantum mechanics, (2) the theory of quantum decoherence is sufficient to dispose of certain well-known problems, such as Schroedinger's Cat, that result from naively applying quantum superposition to classical objects, and (3) there are two kinds of metaphysical entity: a Logos, as represented by mathematics and logic, and a Reality, as represented by physics.<br />Omnes' key point in all of this, is that the future theory of knowledge will be solidly grounded on a firm scientific basis; but he himself admits that the presentation in this book is only the start of a sketch of such a grand plan.<br />In summary, while I found some things of interest in the book, and appreciated its graceful and literate writing style, I was put off by a general superficiality and incompleteness of treatment, an inadequate explanation of concepts, and especially by the author's unfortunate and all too frequent resort to bald &quot;proof by assertion&quot; instead of the discussion, give-and-take, and scholarly references which are expected even in a popular or semi-popular work.	2003-07-07
US	52008283	R39EH53XQZ5H69	0520227042	369023760	Mahabharata	Books	3	130	132	N	Y	William Buck's Mahabharata	The Great Bharata of Vyasa, comprising over 100,000 Sanskrit stanzas organized into eighteen volumes, contains within its vast length many stories - of gods and demigods, of kings and warriors, of legend, history, ethics, philosophy, law, politics, and religion. Within all its richness lies a core story of the great civil war between the Kurus and the Pandavas, two rival branches of the Bharata lunar clan, culminating in the terrible Battle of Kurukshetra, an Armageddon which wiped out both sides in the fighting and ushered in the degenerate Fourth Age of Mankind, in which we are all living today. It is this story, lying at the very heart of the Mahabharata, which most  translators into English, including William Buck, choose to tell.<br />Buck created his version in the 1960's, resolving to tell the story in his own way, which would be accessible to readers in English but remain faithful to the spirit, if not the letter, of the original. He condensed, rewrote, and reinterpreted in order to make a work which he hoped would please and delight his readers while preserving the essential story. The result is very controversial, and the controversy continues to this day (Buck died in 1970).<br />Many readers, including me, appreciate the artistry and skill of Buck's writing. I am puzzled, however, by the changes that he made in the story. For example, Buck has Krishna kill Dushsasana prior to the battle (in Vyasa, Dushsasana is killed by Bhima at Kurukshetra). For another example, in Buck's version, it is Virata's son Uttara who breaks into the Kuru's Lotus formation during the battle (and is subsequently killed).  In Vyasa, the protagonist is Abhimanyu, son of Arjuna. For a third example, Buck has Draupadi volunteer, after having been won by Arjuna, to become the wife of the other four Pandava brothers as well; in Vyasa she has no choice, since her mother-in-law, Kunti, commanded Arjuna to share \\"whatever he had brought\\" with his brothers.<br />These are major characters, and it seems arbitrary for Buck to change their stories in this way; it is like Paris, instead of Hector, being killed by Achilles!<br />It is also important, I feel, for a translator to bring across the beauty, grandeur, religious ecstasy, and sorrow of Vyasa's conception; the Battle of Kurukshetra is a Ragnarok, an Armageddon, a monumental epic, the end of an age, the banishing of gods and demigods from earth; I do not find such elevated emotions in Buck's version, although it must be admitted that I have not found it in other translations either, and probably only the original Sanskrit can do it justice. In my view, the Mahabharata is a tragedy, perhaps the greatest tragedy ever written, and the tragic viewpoint is what I find most lacking in Buck's version, in spite of its many felicities of incident and style.<br />For readers who are unfamiliar with the Mahabharata, it is easy to get lost in the multitude of characters and their complicated relationships. Buck makes a sincere effort, but he lapses at a few important points. For example, when Bhima cries to Drona that \\"Aswatthaman is slain\\", the reader may not realize that Aswatthaman is Drona's son, since there is no entry for Aswatthaman in the glossary.<br />The glossary, as in the example above, omits many crucial relationships and names. An index and a geneaology chart of the major characters would have been very helpful, but are not included in the book. There are only seven footnotes. The edition that I am reviewing (University of California paperback, 1981) was apparently typeset from the original plates, since it contains all of the original typographical errors.<br />Buck's version omits the Bhagavad Gita, the \\"Song of God\\" that is uttered by Krishna just before the climactic battle. The Gita, although now considered to be a relatively late interpolation to the basic story, is absolutely essential; its importance is analogous to the story of Job in the Old Testament, and any version of the Mahabharata is fundamentally incomplete without it.<br />In summary, I recommend that readers who are not that familiar with the Mahabharata should read first a modern version such as R. K. Narayan, which tells the basic story clearly and accurately; first-time readers should also obtain a contemporary translation of the Gita, and read it when they reach the appropriate point in the Mahabharata narrative. I do like Buck's version; the writing is very fine, and I feel a certain nostalgic connection to it (Buck and I are both children of the 60's); but I have to admit that on the whole, it really does not meet contemporary standards of scholarship or accuracy.rata is fundamentally incomplete without it.   <br />In summary, I recommend that readers who are not that familiar with the Mahabharata should read first a modern version such as R. K. Narayan, which tells the basic story clearly and accurately; first-time readers should also obtain a contemporary translation of the Gita, and read it when they reach the appropriate point in the Mahabharata narrative. I do like Buck's version; the writing is very fine, and I feel a certain nostalgic connection to it (Buck and I are both children of the 60's); but I have to admit that on the whole, it really does not meet contemporary standards of scholarship or accuracy.	2003-07-04
US	52008283	ROT8PCSLZIM9	0834804247	298956983	Khmer Mythology: Secrets Of Angkor Wat	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Understanding the Angkor Reliefs	The great temples of Angkor are decorated with beautiful relief carvings that illustrate (mostly) Hindu mythology, with a few Buddhist and historical scenes. The sheer number and variety of reliefs is overwhelming; their length would total at least a mile or two, if laid end-to-end. It is hardly possible to see them all in one (or many) visits, let alone to know all the variety of subjects that they depict. And yet, Vittoria Roveda has done just that. It's quite an achievement.<br />The book is organized into two parts. The first part retells some of the myths that are most frequently illustrated at Angkor - stories of Rama, Krishna, Shiva, the Sea of Milk, etc. In part two, the author discusses the reliefs of each temple in turn. (An awkward consequence of this organization is that illustrations of the reliefs discussed in part two will often be found earlier in the book, in part one, and vice-versa, requiring much page-turning on the part of the reader.) In terms of coverage, while even Roveda could not include every possible scene in this book, I would be surprised if any but the most obscure have been left out; this is an amazingly complete effort, and the book is quite well illustrated.<br />This book will by enjoyed by readers who are interested in Khmer art and Hindu mythology; and those fortunate enough to visit  Angkor will find this book to be enormously helpful in understanding and appreciating the reliefs that they will see there.	2003-06-17
US	52008283	R2K5AS5X1CHUWY	0834804506	392113267	Guide To Khmer Temples In Thailand And Laos	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	An Excellent Guide	Michael Freeman's guide covers over fifty Khmer temples in Thailand and Laos, plus the border temples in Cambodia. (Angkor is not included; see the book &quot;Ancient Angkor,&quot; by the same author, for complete information on Angkor.)<br />The temples and their major features are described with quite a bit of detail for the major temples, and not so much detail for the less important ones. The book has all the features one would wish for in a good guidebook - maps, site plans, floor plans of the major temples, color photogaphs (Freeman is both the author and the photographer of the guide), hotels, restaurants, and  transportation. The first 50 pages give some very useful background on architecture, lintel styles, and the chronology of the temples. Suggested itineraries, temple rankings, and a glossary of general and architectural terms are also provided.<br />According to the inside front cover, the Weatherhill edition on which I based this review was published in 1998, apparently with the same content as the original edition of 1996. I don't know if any more recent editions are available. The book's staying in print for over 7 years is proof of its popularity and usefulness. However, since things change rapidly in that part of the world, the reader may want to consider purchasing a more recent guide for up-to-date practical information. Freeman's guide, however, is still highly recommended for the core information that it provides about the temples themselves.	2003-06-17
US	52008283	R3HPRQIJ16WYJW	0810928531	304550085	Khmer	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A Brief Introduction to Ancient Cambodia	At 120 pages (5&quot; x 7&quot;) and approximately 20,000 words, this book is so short that it is really more like an illustrated essay.<br />However, it is well-written and illustrated with good color photographs on every page. Beginning with the geographical situation and early origins of the Khmer empire, successive chapters take the story through the foundation of Angkor by Jayavarman II (800 AD), the construction of Angkor Wat by  Suryavarman II (1113-1150), the iconic &quot;face temples&quot; of Angkor's Buddhist king, Jayavarman VII (1181-1219), and the post-Angkor period (14th-15th centuries). The book concludes with twenty pages of excerpts from other works, including the diary of Zhou Daguan (Chinese envoy to Angkor in 1296-7) and several inscriptions. The emphasis throughout is on cultural developments and the building programs of the kings at Angkor.<br />Because the size and format of this book may mislead some readers to expect a &quot;guidebook&quot; to Angkor, it is worth emphasizing that this is a history rather than a site guide. However, it does include a map of Angkor that usefully identifies the most important structures and the reigns in which they were built.<br />Because the book is so very short, the amount of information that could be included is necessarily limited. It seems that the most likely audience for the book includes: (1) those who are unfamiliar with ancient Cambodia and wish a brief introduction, and (2) elementary and secondary education, where the book would be suitable as a learning module on SE Asia.	2003-06-16
US	52008283	RQBMFYXIPYCTY	0520234421	723344343	The Civilization of Angkor	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	A No-Frills, Academic History	This book packs a lot of information into a relatively few  pages (192 pages, including the index). It begins at the beginning, with the prehistoric communities of Southeast Asia, and continues through the early states of Funan and Chenla,<br />Jayavarman II and his successors (800 A.D. - 1000 A.D.),  Suryavarman I, the major 12th century builders at Angkor (Jayavarman VI, Suryavarman II, Jayavarman VII), and the later decline of Angkor until its sack by Thai invaders in 1431. A later episode of restoration is not discussed in the book (the last relief in  Angkor Wat was carved in 1564), perhaps because Angkor was no longer politically important at that time.<br />The main sources for this history, in addition to archaeology, are carved inscriptions on temples and stelae, which the author quotes extensively in translation. Political history is emphasized throughout, with not much consideration of artistic and religious matters; the style of writing is terse, and rather dry. Because of this, the book reads more like an academic history (textbook and reference) than like a popular history. The book focuses on the synthesis of known facts into a historical narrative. Within this scope, the book can be relied upon to provide as much information as is currently known about the political history of Angkor.	2003-06-14
US	52008283	R1A04AKKZVAG94	0834804263	408861585	Ancient Angkor	Books	5	20	22	N	Y	Take It With You When You Go	This book will guide you step by step (literally) through the magnificant temples of Angkor. And even if you weren't planning to go, you will want to for sure, after viewing Michael Freeman's superb photographs and reading Claude Jacques' expert commentary.<br />No matter where you wander on the very large site of Angkor, Freeman and Jacques are right alongside you, suggesting places to look and explaining what you are looking at. There are maps and temple plans, a glossary, and an index. For visitors with limited time, the suggested itineraries (from one to seven days' length) will let you make the most of your visit.<br />The book is especially helpful for photographers. Freeman, who has photographed professionaly at Angkor for over a decade, describes the best vantage points and subjects, suggests the best time of day to shoot, and provides itineraries that take you to each location just when the light is best.<br />The book is well designed and contains many helpful features. For example, a cross-referenced list of architectural features and mythological scenes makes it easy to locate temples that contain whatever the visitor is most interested in seeing.<br />In short, carrying this book with you is like having an expert photographer and historian as personal guides during your visit to Angkor. You probably won't even need to engage an actual guide, unless you want to pick up a bit of local color; everything you need is right there in the book.	2003-06-14
US	52008283	R3V5XIFJNJUKNU	0824823532	70094955	Angkor Wat: Time, Space, and Kingship	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A Detailed Interpretation of Angkor Wat	Eleanor Mannikka's grand idea is that the symbolism of Angkor Wat can be understood by interpreting the most significant measurements on the temple as references to Cambodian astronomical, calendrical, and religious concepts. Thus, for example, she identifies some distances, on the entrance bridge and outer enclosure, as referring to the Four Ages (yugas) of Hindu cosmology. The Churning of the Sea of Milk, at the Western Entrance, symbolizes the annual orbital oscillations of the sun and moon between summer and winter solstices. The third enclosure records, in its dimensions, some important events of Suryavarman's reign, and indicates that the king was symbolically bringing a new &quot;golden age&quot; to mankind. The upper levels of the temple represent Mt. Meru, the home of the gods and especially of Vishnu, who is the supreme deity in this temple. The measurements in this part of the temple include a  mandala of the gods with lunar and solar astronomical cycles.<br />In addition to its architectural symbolism, the temple's measurements also provide a great deal of information about the third gallery reliefs, and even help identify which gods would be represented by the (now absent!) statues that were set up in various locations in the temple.<br />Mannika's book will be accessible to most interested readers, especially now that it has been issued in softcover. While the book does contain (necessarily!) a lot of long and involved calculations, it is possible for the reader to skip over the numerical details and still get a good sense of the author's interpretations and conclusions.	2003-06-14
US	52008283	R1WUX7LV8XY324	0521809231	739276278	Raphael's Stanza della Segnatura: Meaning and Invention	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	An Important New Interpretation of Raphael's Stanza	Raphael's &quot;School of Athens&quot; is one of the best-known works of art in the Western world, yet it has been little understood until now. Many figural attributions, which appear in the standard art history textbooks, are either conjectural or just plain wrong. And even the best of these former writings, have not carefully considered the relationship of the &quot;School of Athens&quot; to Raphael's other three paintings in the same room.  Fortunately, Dr. Joost-Gaugier has written this book to set us all straight. Her scholarship is impeccable, and she considers the Stanza in the full context - historical, artistic, literary, and philosophical - of its time. Her book will appeal to many different audiences - art historians, students, scholars, and really anyone who is interested in the art and thought of the Renaissance.	2002-11-25
US	52008283	R341RCZN22F7TC	0253215579	521163607	Dissent in the Heartland: The Sixties at Indiana University (Midwestern History and Culture)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Well Worth Reading	Mary Ann Wynkoop has written the definitive history of Indiana University student dissent in the 60's. I know first-hand most of the people and events of which she writes, and can say from personal experience that her book is accurate, sensitive, and reliable. This book will be of interest not only to present and former IU students, but to anyone who is interested in the American anti-war, student protest, civil rights, and early feminist movements of that time.	2002-11-25
US	52008283	R2XG2OZ9Q6ULBX	0393049558	208269558	Rimbaud: A Biography	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	The Best Bio of Rimbaud	This bio completely turned my head around. Everything that I thought I knew about Rimbaud, was wrong! Robb's scholarship is impeccable, and his writing is so interesting that - like a novel - I kept turning the pages to find out what happened next. This is a book for everyone who loves Rimbaud, French poetry, biography, and beautiful writing.<br />Thank you, Graham Robb, for giving us the true Rimbaud - the man himself. You opened my mind to his life, and my heart to his poetry.	2001-06-09
US	52008283	R1R5ANNXKT7DAB	0195130065	331358053	Surfing through Hyperspace: Understanding Higher Universes in Six Easy Lessons	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Math Lite	In his latest book, Pickover treats his readers to a lightweight tour of hyperspace. Most of the book is taken up by fiction, speculation, and digression, which doesn't leave much space for solid information. This book is thinner than some of his others. All in all, \\"Surfing Through Hyperspace\\" is recommendable if you're a fan of Pickover, you're ok with a simplified introduction to the subject, and you don't mind \\"cute\\" writing. Otherwise, I'd give it a pass.	2000-09-23
US	52008283	R26MAPHLV3RWWF	1890318477	382508982	An Intelligent Person's Guide to Modern Culture	Books	3	30	38	N	N	A Meditation On Culture	Scruton's title is somewhat misleading - he's written, not so much a guide  to modern culture, as an extended meditation on its history, beginning with  Religion, and continuing on through the Enlightenment, Modernism, and  Post-Modernism. As you might expect from this philosopher, he does not  approve of the trend - &quot;art is the consolation prize for our loss of  religion.&quot;<br />The question is, what is to be done about culture, and  why should it matter? Scruton's book is engaging and provocative, but short  on answers. It is perhaps worth reading as a brief history of how Western  culture lost its way. But those who are hoping for an incisive diagnosis,  and a clarion call to arms, will come away disappointed.	2000-09-19
US	52008283	R3C2GLRLLMMWDF	0316518492	535350178	William Shakespeare: The Man Behind the Genius	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Fine Popular Biography of Shakespeare	In calling Holden's book a &quot;popular&quot; biography, I do not mean to  denigrate his scholarship. Holden has done a lot of research, but he wears  his learning lightly. His biography is &quot;popular&quot; in the best  sense - gracefully written, mercifully short (300 pages), interesting, and  entertaining. He neither gets bogged down in minutia, nor does he  oversimplify. Some of his conclusions may be controversial (and what is not  controversial, in Shakespeare studies?) but Holden gives his reasons, and  generously references opposing views, so that readers can make up their own  minds as to the plausibility of his deductions.<br />The book may be a little  confusing to absolute beginners, and it might not contain enough detailed  argument to satisfy academic scholars. But I would imagine that most  everybody else would find in it a great deal of enjoyment, information, and  interest.	2000-09-18
US	52008283	R3SDMUPH0PYXIW	0375409084	71254966	Gertrude and Claudius	Books	3	9	16	N	N	Has Updike Lost It?	Gertrude and Claudius - the very title resonates with passion:  lust,  incest, hatred, madness, and despair. In Updike's hands, this archetypal  story descends to the level of a commonplace tale of suburban adultery.  Updike's characters do not feel, suffer, dare. They are moved by their  whims and desires only, like leaves on the autumn wind. Ultimately, it does  not seem to matter very much. Is this what Updike means? Does he really  care? Should we?	2000-09-10
US	52008283	R1FYL6CCYLNC5J	0374111197	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Servicable Translation	There are many things to like in Heaney's Beowulf, not least the format of  the book itself - the original text and Heaney's translation are printed on  facing pages. Heaney's translation is mostly accurate, clear and readable,  except for a few &quot;Irishisms&quot; that may baffle the American reader.<br />Oddly enough, since Heaney is himself a major poet, I find this  translation a bit lacking in poetry, a bit - dare I say it - flat. Heaney  keeps the sense and muscular line of the original, but - and here is where  I think he goes wrong - he forces the alliteration. In the original,  alliteration stirs the blood and slaps you in the face. In translation,  Heaney's alliteration is too often weak, and - a far worse sin - too often  lowers his diction to the level of the commonplace.<br />Poetry is, of course,  impossible to translate. Heaney has made, if not the best, at least a  creditable effort, of an impossible job. As such, he deserves our respect  and our thanks.	2000-09-10
US	52008283	R12PWHQUANWLOC	0521774837	635021618	Middle Egyptian: An Introduction to the Language and Culture of Hieroglyphs	Books	4	58	58	N	N	An Excellent Reference And Textbook	Allen's grammar of Middle Egyptian is greatly to be commended. Based on a  life of scholarship and teaching, his book has much to offer to students,  specialists, and anyone who is fascinated -as I am - by the language and  culture of Ancient Egypt.<br />Beginning students will appreciate his  explanation of basic grammar, which is much more understandable and  thorough than most other textbooks. The exercises, at the end of each  chapter, are the best that I have ever seen. Scholars, and advanced  students, will be grateful for the detail and completeness of Allen's  work.<br />As one who has read through the book and worked all the exercises,  I can recommend it without hesitation as a reference book for scholars, and  as a textbook for university students. My only reservation is that the  information presented is very detailed and complex, and likely to be  overwhelming to a beginner. So, if you are a beginner, I would recommend  that you read through an easier book, such as Collier and Manley (&quot;How  To Read Egyptian Hieroglyphs&quot;), before you tackle Allen.	2000-09-10
US	52008283	R3PRIKLN2ANZIP	0500051003	751160529	The Complete Temples of Ancient Egypt	Books	4	58	64	N	N	A Useful Gazeteer	Richard Wilkinson has written one essential book - &quot;Reading Egyptian  Art&quot; which belongs on the shelf of anyone who is interested in Ancient  Egypt. &quot;Temples of Ancient Egypt,&quot; although worthwhile, is not  that book. Temples is a gazeteer, which is to say, a book that describes  the essential sites in Egypt, arranged by geography. This is all very well,  and competently done, but Baines and Malek (&quot;The Cultural Atlas of the  World: Ancient Egypt&quot;) have done it first, and better.	2000-09-10
US	52008283	R19L459T4QVB3X	0631211950	520160743	The Egyptians	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	An excellent history of Egypt	Watterson's book provides a fascinating, and very readable, introduction to the ancient land of Egypt. I couldn't put it down! And, our local library can't keep it on the shelves.<br />Watterson combines the best of the  classical authors (Herodotus, Strabo, etc) with the best of current  scholarship. She has a unique ability to focus on what is most important  and interesting in the long span (5000 years!) of Egyptian history.<br />This  book is very well written, very rich in information, and truly a pleasure  to read. It is one of the very best histories that I have ever read. I  believe that it will soon become a classic textbook, reference, and popular  work. I recommend it without reservation to anyone - high school or college  student, scholar, or general reader - who wants an excellent history of  Egypt from ancient to modern times.	1999-08-07
US	52008283	R37Y01TGRYAXH7	0345412885	58749141	Truth Machine	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Truth Machine works on many levels.	This is a very good book. Especially impressive work from a first-time author. I<br />  enjoyed it very much. The I22gCP idea is a pretty clever solution to the problem of<br />  the omniscient narrator. Halperin's book takes a compelling idea and extrapolates it<br />  out to the limit. His analysis is logical and reality-based, and his story also works as<br />  pure entertainment. Whether we like the resulting world or not, I think the book is<br />  quite an achievement.	1997-08-05
