US	52008064	R7M7X8F82TOXL	0373513674	482534670	Devil's Bargain (Silhouette Bombshell)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Really enjoyable new series by Ms. Caine.	I am a fan of Rachel Caine's Weather Warden series and decided to check out this new series she has in the works by Harlequin/Bombshell. I found this first book to the series really enjoyable and could not put it down. <br /> <br />First off, Caine has written some really interesting characters- Jazz, Lucia, Borden, Manny- all are different yet believable and work well in the context of the greater story. <br /> <br />The plot setting was interesting as well, and I was intrigued by the Cross Society, the idea of Leads and Actors. The questions and suspense kept coming and by the end of the book you are left scratching your head over the mystery and where it is leading.  <br /> <br />All in all, a great story. This book is different from her Weather Warden series but just as well written and interesting. At best I would call this a paranormal mystery series in the works. So if you are a fan of Caine's, check this new series out and for the price it is a really good bargain! <br /> <br />Great job, Ms. Caine!	2005-10-06
US	52008064	R3DZMONJVILOYF	0505526433	636933663	The Master	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good Addition to the Series	I have read all of Melanie Jackson's Wildside series books and she has built an interesting world with equally interesting characters. The newest, The Master, is no exception. <br /> <br />The book delves more into the world of the Goblins and the Fae. More specifically, this book deals with the Hobgoblins and their leader Qasim. In previous books he was painted as the bad guy, but in the book you see a softer side and you as the reader learn the Hobgoblins are not the danger that was believed.  <br /> <br />I think the strongest thing about this book is the characterization. The main characters Nick and Zee were well-portrayed. Their were times when things were awkward between them, which added believability to the story. The setting was on target and the Christmas theme was incorporated well into the book. <br /> <br />The Master also lets you know what has been happening with the other Fae characters we have come to know from other books in the series. My only complaint was that the ending was a little rushed and everything was tied up so quickly. I really think Ms. Jackson needed another 40 or so pages to better end the story with. <br /> <br />I would recommend for potential readers to NOT start off with The Master. Their is a lot of backstory in this book that might leave the reader confused. If possible start with the first in the series- Traveler. <br /> <br />All in all, the book was a 4 stars. Good job, Ms. Jackson!	2005-10-02
US	52008064	R10ZCHGTG4K5LK	0060504153	115450821	Always Time to Die: A Novel	Books	3	3	3	N	N	OK Read.	I am usually a fan of Elizabeth Lowell's work, even though she has shifted from romance to suspense over the last few years. Her last few novels in the suspense field have been solid entries and are usually interesting reads. <br /> <br />However, with Always Time To Die, I found myself plodding through the book. The main subject of the book, geneology, is an intesting one and you can see that Lowell has done her trademark research. At many times though, their were simply too many names and dates being thrown at the reader that it became confusing. You really had to re-read at times, and it simply did not add to the story. While I am sure it is an interesting subject, in the context of the book it came of as dry and cumbersome to the reader. <br /> <br />The characters in the book were interesting, and Lowell certainly has a gift for characterization. My only complaint as a longtime reader is that the main characters seem rehashed from older books. I wish she would change the background of her characters a little- maybe have the female be the law enforcer type and the male the outsider with the interesting hobby? <br /> <br />All in all, an ok read. The characters and final resolution of the book were the best part of the story and even they were underutilized. The book was lost in dry, technical detail and you do not feel the connection between the main characters, Dan and Carly. <br /> <br />More and more, her books are getting repetitious, tedious and have lost the trademark sensuality and love between the main characters that you have come to expect from Lowell's work. <br /> <br />My recommendation- borrow it but do not spend your hard earned money on the hardcover price.	2005-09-13
US	52008064	R19S47EBPCAJBI	0553587080	236523182	Haunted	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Different yet really good	I have read all of the books in Kelley Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld series and while Haunted, the newest in the series, is different from what we have seen so far in the other books, it is just as good. <br /> <br />This book centers around Eve Levine, who has been mentioned and appeared in previous books in the series. I thought that of all the heroines to date, Eve was the best one that Armstrong has written. She is tough, funny, realistic and not a goody two shoes. She does what she has to in order to survive and never lies to herself. In other books, she was painted as a bad guy but in this book you see Eve's true motivations and get a glimpse of things from her eyes, making her an interesting heroine. <br /> <br />This book also is different because of the setting and the cast of characters. This book takes place in Armstrong's version of the ever-after for supernaturals. We meet all sorts of characters that range from the Fates, demons, ghosts, werewolves, angels, necromancers and of course one angry Nix. Their is an interesting plot to the story which leads our heroine from one adventure to the next. The book never slows down- it is action packed from beginning to end. I like how Armstrong ties in the adventure to the dilemmas faced by Eve in regards to her own personal \\"demons.\\"  <br /> <br />The only reason I did not give it five stars is that at times it seemed the after-life was kind of unrealistic. If this is Armstrong's idea of life after death it does not seem to be such a bad thing.  <br /> <br />But all in all, one great read. She has a great story, fast paced adventure, one tough heroine and an interesting universe. This book was also more humourous than the others so far which adds to the overall package. I cant wait for the next Women of Otherworld story and I really hope the author considers a book devoted to Jamie the Necromancer. <br /> <br />Good Job Ms. Armstrong!	2005-07-15
US	52008064	RYUVPO7PO44DW	0312934327	592337269	Sins of the Night (Dark-Hunter, Book 8)	Books	4	13	19	N	N	Good Addition to the Series	I have followed Sherrilyn Kenyon's Dark-Hunter series from the beginning and I though this newest entry Sins of the Night was a really good read. <br /> <br />For those who follow the series, it explains about the history of the Hunters and Shades, what happens to Hunters when they die. It also allows the reader to be introduced to Alexion, who is created to be \\"executioner\\" to those Hunters who break the Code.  <br /> <br />The lead characters in this book, Alexion and Danger (a Dark-Huntress) are different from those we have seen so far. You feel symphathy for these two characters and you know from the beginning that they will not have your typical happy ever after. I like that Kenyon has created set rules for her universe and stuck with her guns in writing this book. She does not change those rules for the sake of the love story, and even though readers might be irked by this it creates consistancy within her storyline. The ending is bittersweet but I dont see how it could have ended any other way. <br /> <br />The setting was right on target, the characters interesting and the storyline unique. It answer questions that readers have about the series (about Ash in particular and also Simi.) This book introduced new characters just as interesting as the old ones.  <br /> <br />Overall, I really enjoyed this book. The only reason it does not get a full five stars is that I felt the love story was a little rushed and that the book could have been a longer, perhaps to better tie up loose ends. But in the grand scheme of things, it was a great addition to the Dark-Hunter series. <br /> <br />Good job, Ms. Kenyon! <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-29
US	52008064	R1AJK7PTBWDH7Y	0505525194	686361693	Dream Of Me	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Followup	I have read both books by Lisa Cach- Come To Me and Dream of Me (my first time reading this author) and I have to say both books were good. They had interesting premises and both delivered some good storytelling. I liked Dream of Me a little better though. <br /> <br />Even though many people might have complained about the darkness of the book or about the heroine and hero themselves, I think the author did a good job capturing and portraying both the characters. The hero Theron is an incubi hunguring to become part of the human world and his feelings were well played in this book as well as his growing love for the heroine. As for Lucia, I know many might have found her character annoying, but readers must take into account her situation and her environment. She was shielded from the world and it showed in her character. I thought that by the end of the book she really grew, transforming from a timid girl to a stronger woman.  <br /> <br />The author also did a great job capturing the setting of the time period and the history of that region, which were incorporated really well into the book. I had no trouble buying into the setting.  <br /> <br />Overall the book was good. Despite its dark points (which I feel did not really distract from the story) it had a great romance and character development, an interesting premise, and a good setting. Their were no slow points; the book was action packed from start to finish. And unlike the other reviewer I enjoyed the small twist the author threw in at the end, it really wrapped things up nicely and let you know in a small way that this story was far from over. <br /> <br />Good job Ms. Cach!	2004-11-20
US	52008064	RF5PSQ9Z8QP31	0451459849	792869632	Heat Stroke (Weather Warden, Book 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent sequel	I read the first book in the Weather Warden series, Ill Wind and really enjoyed it. Heat Stroke was an excellent follow-up to the first book. <br /> <br />Heat Stroke pretty much takes up from where book one left off. From beginning to end it is action packed and keeps you hooked. While the first book introduces you into the world of the Weather Wardens, this book focuses more on the world of the Djinn and the underlying tensions between them and the Wardens. This book also goes more into depth about Joanne and David's growing relationship and the repurcussions of the actions taken to protect that relationship in book one. As well as these two main characters, the secondary characters really stood out in this book and helped flesh out the story. I hope the author gives more focus on Louis in the next book, he shows great potential and I feel his character deserves some more examination.  <br /> <br />The book ended in a big surprise change for Joanne and a cliffhanger as a whole for the series and while frustrating will definitely have you looking forward to book three in the series, Chill Factor. <br /> <br />Great job Ms. Caine!	2004-10-10
US	52008064	R1WGDF01M6RPQ0	0802714242	262474049	The Amber Room: The Fate of the World's Greatest Lost Treasure	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Good read.	I picked this book up because I have an interest in gemology and precious pieces of art that center around jewels/stones.  <br /> <br />The Amber Room was one of those rare pieces of art that graced the world and simply disappeared. The subject alone is worth reading the book. Who doesn't want to read about \\"buried treasure?\\"  <br /> <br />This book catches the interest of the reader immediately. Part investigative journalism, history and detection, it gives you a glimpse of a world during the Second World War in countries such as Russia, Germany and Poland. As a person with little knowledge of the subject I found it competely engrossing! <br /> <br />This book can rival any fiction book. Definitely pick it up! I am going to read the earlier work written by these authors which centers around Imperial Jade.	2004-09-29
US	52008064	RYCQM9ZD0X86U	0505526085	423366610	Still Life (Wildside Romance)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Could have been better.	I have enjoyed Melanie Jackson's Wildside series especially the first book in the series, The Traveler. Still Life is her newest book in the series. <br /> <br />As usual Jackson goes into depth detailing the Goblin \\"Lutin\\" empire, the Fey, and H.U.G (Humans Underground)- the machinations, conspiracies and political propaganda that surround each component of her altenative universe. You have no trouble buying into the world she has created. <br /> <br />What I found lacking in the book was the characterization and love story between the lead characters Abrial and Nyssa. I found no differentiation between them and other characters in the preceding books so far. Abrial was painted as this mysterious, aloof character who was once an Executioner for the Unseelie Court- yet he came of as a regular Joe. The mystery surrounding him was downplayed and their was no in depth examination of his character. It would have been interesting to read about the Unseelie Court through his eyes but the author simply left us hanging with Abrial as a whole. I never warmed up to him because I felt I did not know him at all. <br /> <br />Nyssa was better written and you understand more about her because it is integral to the storyline but nothing that really made me relate to her. The sensuality in the book was lukewarm and I was never convinced as to why these two were falling for each other. Another aspect that was left kind of hanging in the book. <br /> <br />Overall, I would give this book a 3.5 stars. If the romance story had been as strong as those in her other books it would have been better. But I would still pick up the next book just to see what is happening in the Wildside universe (and keeping my fingers crossed that it will be a better entry.)	2004-08-29
US	52008064	R1XIFNJ3HHSRLN	0312992424	454259013	Night Play (Dark-Hunter, Book 6)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Excellent.	I love Sherrilyn Kenyon's books and feel she really gets better with each book. Her newest installment, Night Play, was excellent! <br /> <br />Night Play is the first book that centers around the world of the Were-Hunters. We have seen glimpses into their world through earlier books by the author but this is the first one devoted to a Were character. Vane and Bride are both characters that we met in Night Embrace, and you knew then that these two would end up together! And what a couple! Vane was just perfect-he accepted the heroine as she was, tried at all times to protect, love and understand her and was willing to bend for her (plus it does not hurt that he was HOT.) The heroine of Bride was one that most women could relate to. She is not perfect by society's standards and was hurt badly because of that mindset. However despite all that, she takes a chance with the hero to love again. For that reason, I thought she was great.  <br /> <br />The plot, dialogue, setting, and premise were all well written. The book was fast paced so I was never bored. The secondary characters really fleshed out the story and we see some characters from older books make a visit. Kenyon really does a good job explaining the world of the Were-Hunter. <br /> <br />All in all, a great read! Thanks Mrs. Kenyon!	2004-08-13
US	52008064	RJQTM7GC5FARU	0515138096	316144495	Mind Game (GhostWalkers, Book 2)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Much better than the first GhostWalker story	I really enjoy Christine Feehan's paranormal novels and of course had to give her newest GhostWalker series a try. I was disappointed with the first book, Shadow Game. Although the premise was a good one, the storyline and pacing of the book was slow and labourous at best. <br /> <br />However, the sequel of Mind Game is much better written. Unlike many who might not have liked Dahlia, I thought her character was very plausible. Given her background coupled with her dangerous psychic abilites, her actions were not surprising and rang true for me. Nicolas was perfectly played off as well, his background and motivations fleshed out in order for you to really like him (he is a much different man in this book than in the first.) Both the hero and heroine worked well together. <br /> <br />The pacing of the book was fast, so you never had a chance to get bored. Other GhostWalker members were introduced, and I think their presence was important in the storyline. One- you understanding how well their powers work together and how important they are as a group. Second- it helps the heroine learn she is not alone in the world. <br /> <br />My only complaint was with the ending. I felt the it left open a few loose ends concerning the NCIS spies. Were all captured? Are they loose agents left in the end that were not caught? Perhaps these questions get answered in other GhostWalker books. <br /> <br />All in all, this book was really good. I hope the next one is just as good. Good job, Mrs. Feehan!	2004-08-13
US	52008064	R3FRS5CIWGQ201	0060565411	391323981	A Dark Champion (Brotherhood of the Sword, Book 1)	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Another great book.	I read few historical romances, but because I love the author's books under her other name Sherrilyn Kenyon, I gave this book a try. And I really enjoyed it.<br />First off, the heroine and hero were written well. Even though we as readers know the book only takes place in the space of a month, I felt that Rowena and Stryder knew each other for longer- they complimented each other so well. You can see the changes and growth in the characters, and though they refuse to be attracted to each other, at the end of the book they accept the love growing between them and work together. A refreshing change.<br />The secondary characters in the book were also very interesting and although at times there was alot of the book devoted to them, I don't feel it distracted at all from the book. The mystery was well done and my only quibble with the book is that at the end you dont really find out what happens to the villains. But since this is the first book in a series I guess we will find out later.<br />I also had no problems with believing it was set in Medieval England. The historical figures, background and speech were pretty on the mark to me.<br />All in all, a great book by McKinley. I look forward to the next one about Christian the Abbot.	2004-07-05
US	52008064	RYOYHCYC1JWO3	0060504137	477717228	The Color of Death	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Good book	I have been a fan of Elizabeth Lowell's for some time now, and I have to say that she has gotten back on track with this book, much better than her last few novels, which I felt were not balanced in the way of combining romance and suspense.<br />The hero and heroine were much more fleshed out, the secondary characters believable and with their own unique quirks. Lowell has a good sense when it comes to characterization and dialogue that kept the book fast-paced. The mystery was a good one, and even I was a little surprised at the curve ball she threw at the end.<br />My only quibbles with the book were: one, she needed at least one more chapter to clear up loose ends and explain more at the end. Second, although you see the love grow between the characters, they never explicity say it, which would be nice.<br />But to all readers out there, be forwarned. Her novels are more suspense based now than romance based. This is a trend anyone can see if they have been reading her last few books.  Not that this is a bad thing, I think she has real talent writing in the suspense/mystery genre. But readers expecting a straight romance will be disapppointed. The romance has taken a secondary place to the mystery. The clues to this trend can be seen by the title and the cover art of the book (which I hated.)<br />But all in all a good read. You see the trademark Lowell style of writing in this book and she is able to combine both suspense and romance into a well written book.	2004-07-04
US	52008064	RZD61E8CWEEJ1	0312992416	37916823	Kiss of the Night (Dark-Hunter, Book 5)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Good read.	With with newest installment of the Dark-Hunter series, Kenyon keeps building up the series and adding more complexity and backdrop to the Hunter world she has created.<br />The characters, Cassandra (a Half-Apollite) and Wulf (a Dark-Hunter) are both well played off in this book. Cassandra is strong, humorous and more than able to fend for herself, you are synphatetic to her character. Wulf is good also, but after a while you get tired of the  &quot;leather-clad&quot; heroes all the time.<br />The storyline, pace and dialogue we well done, however, there were many unanswered questions in this book, not so much with secondary characters, they obviously will be back in other books but questions about the main characters themselves. How did Wulf lose his soul? Who possesses it in the end? How were they exchanged? This is why I gave it 4 stars.<br />But all in all, a good read. The series continues strong.	2004-05-17
US	52008064	RHKEUCHVZ3WBG	074347628X	70662520	The Twilight Before Christmas (Drake Sisters, Book 2)	Books	5	50	54	N	N	Interesing new series.	I became a fan of Christine Feehan through her Dark series, which I love and of course brought this new book, which continued the story she started in the anthology &quot;Lover Beware&quot;, about seven witch sisters.<br />I found her second book in the series &quot;The Twilight Before Christmas&quot; truly enjoyable. Both the heroine and hero were believable and fun to read about it. Most women could relate to Kate, who everyone believes to be untouchable, but underneath as unsure and scared of herself as the rest of us. She believes she is not interesting nor exciting enough for the hero. Matt was your typical Feehan-style male: handsome, humourous and stubborn, and like the heroine he hid more than originally let on. Both characters worked well together and were a good match.<br />The storyline was a good one too; the suspense and supernatural elements were well played out and the history of Christmas was interesting in the context of the story. Feehan does a good job in this respect, playing on themes such as redemption, love, goodwill and sacrifice. All important and appropriate themes for a Christmas story. The added backlines about the secondary characters and the rest of the Drake sisters added to the whole story.<br />All in all, a great story by Ms. Feehan. I think she has a really good series in the making with the magical Drake sisters and I look forward to the next one.	2003-11-14
US	52008064	R3O6YOWYCW6ZUB	0515135968	211913229	Shadow Game (GhostWalkers, Book 1)	Books	3	35	38	N	N	OK Read.	Like many fans out there, I first began reading Christine Feehan through her Dark Series, which I really enjoy. So I decided to give her newest book &quot;Shadow Game&quot; a chance, even though it is not part of the Dark Series.<br />Shadow Game started strongly, and the premise was interesting. Both the main characters, Lily and Ryland, also seemed very interesting and their interactions were in typical Feehan style, wrought with humor and sexual tension. The secondary characters added to the background and it is obvious that Feehan plans to write more sequels to this book later on.<br />However, by the middle of the book, the story started to drag and by the end it lost steam. The book involved some scenes of Lily and Ryland, which I felt were not really necessary to the storyline (Sure I like the love scenes like any one else, but after awhile it became repetitive.) I found myself skipping pages. As a result, it felt like the storyline was pushed to the side. At the end, everything ends abruptly. The bad guys are found out and caught in one simple twist. The whole thing turned out to be anticlimatic. <br />All in all, it was ok. Not great reading but a passable attempt by Christine Feehan. Hopefully she will do better next time, if she does decide to continue with this series.	2003-09-26
US	52008064	R3R5FY4LBSO5Y6	0060504129	311529941	Die in Plain Sight: A Novel of Suspense (Lowell, Elizabeth)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Better than the last one.	I have been a fan of Elizabeth Lowell since the Donovan series, and followed the Rarities series which came after. I have read all of them so far and have to say that &quot;Die in Plain Sight&quot; was a much better read than its predecessor in the Rarities series, &quot;Running Scared.&quot;<br />First off, the lead couple were much more enjoyable and the focus on the romance can be seen in this book. The mutual attraction between Ian and Lacey grows throughout the book, and Lacey was much more fleshed out, especially when her family dynamic is introduced, which is important to the storyline. Altogether, she was a likable heroine. The hero was likable also, yet their was less characterization for him as a whole. In reading many of Ms. Lowell's books, you see a pattern in almost all her heroes (intelligent, stubborn, alpha males with some kind of past working law enforcement or for the government.) Dont get me wrong, their is nothing wrong with that, but in order to make the character stick out, some vulnerabilities, some quirks need to be added that differentiates the hero from other characters. For me, Ian did not really stand out, he seems recycled somehow, a cut and paste type character.<br />I though the mystery was pretty good too, and although you are not too surprised to find who the &quot;bad guy(s)&quot; were, their are one or two interesting twists to the book and for me the lead up to the end (the path the protagonists have to take in order for the finale) was what I enjoyed more. However, I felt the ending was a little rushed and could have used at least one more chapter in order to clean up the loose ends, in order to get a better sense of closure.<br />The focus on Impressionist Art was well played out and again Ms. Lowell does her research. And the introduction of Susa Donovan, and old character from her other books, was a surprising and not to unwelcome one.<br />All in all, not a bad romantic suspense novel by Elizabeth Lowell, much better than thesecond Rarities book, &quot;Running Scared.&quot; She incorporated both romance and suspense more evenly this time. But it simply lacked something, although the story and romance were not to bad. To truly read the author at her best in romantic suspense, I would recommend her Donovan series: Amber Beach, Jade Island, Pearl Cove and Midnight in Ruby Bayou.	2003-08-02
US	52008064	R3HRXGXY5HJ5DV	038081790X	118708766	Born in Sin: A MacAllisters Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Great book..	I usually don't read historicals, but I have read the Dark Hunter series written by this author under the name Sherrilyn Kenyon and wanted to try her books under Kinley MacGregor.<br />I was pleasantly surprised, the book had all the trademark style of the writer- humor, redemption, and an unforgettable hero and heroine.  Sin was great- handsome, intelligent, and honorable. Callie was the perfect heroine for this tortured hero. The story was pretty good and the setting rang true for me, unlike in other historicals where you don't get that sense of time and history. This, as well as the other characters and the fast-paced dialogue were all well done. My only complaint in the book was that at times Sin was too fatalistic. He never once cut himself a break and really allowed himself to believe in himself or in Callie. Lucky for him, the heroine was one patient woman!<br />All in all, I really enjoyed the book and will be on the look-out for the other McAllister brother's stories.	2003-07-23
US	52008064	R30Z29R04B0ET7	0312984820	322000736	Night Embrace (Dark-Hunter, Book 3)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Great follow-up for a potentially great series!	I have read the author's other books, which were prequel's to this one (Fantasy Lover and Night Pleasures) and I think she wrote a great follow-up story with Night Embrace.<br />This story centers around Talon, who we meet in Night Pleasures. His heroine, Sunshine, was actually introduced in Fantasy Lover, and the two of them together were fantastic. Talon was everything a hero should be, and Sunshine with her idiosyncrasies, was the perfect match for him. I found her to be a refreshing change of pace from the usual storybook heroines. She was a woman who was not afraid to speak her mind or to fight for what she wanted. And unlike many others who thought their relationship was purely sexual, I found that not to be the case at all. I saw Talon and Sunshine as two grown adults in a mutual give and take relationship with no miscommunications as is the case with many other romance novels; both were upfront about their expectations. I thought there was alot of growth between the two characters, and the dialogue between them was funny and realistic.<br />This book was also richer in detail and added to the complex world Sherrilyn Kenyon has created. The author introduces several new characters, but I did not feel it distracted from the book at all. They were incorporated smoothly into the storyline and only added more to the story.  The action, humor and dialogue kept the story fast-paced, and many interesting tidbits were thrown in all throughout, making it hard to put the book down. <br />All in all, the book was great. Ms. Kenyon did Talon and Sunshine justice, and the way she delves into the other characters, such as Acheron, Zarek, Valerius and Vane, will have you clamoring for their stories as well (which I am told she has in the works.) Night Embrace is a great read and hopefully this will be one of several new books in this series in times to come. <br />***And on a side-note, potential readers should check out her website at [...] which will add to the reading experience and gives more background info on all these great characters.***	2003-07-11
US	52008064	R2FQQT95W60CBX	0440237556	77429998	The Dark Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 5)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Pretty good book by the author.	Dark Highlander is the first book that I have read from Karen Marie Moning and I found I really enjoyed the book.<br />The hero and heroine were great together. Dagaues was the perfect hero- dark, brooding, handsome, caring, etc. And although at times the heroine was a little annoying, she was a perfect foil for the more darker hero. The growth and sexual tension between was well played out throughout the book, and at times it was HOT HOT HOT! The dilemma the hero faced with the thirteen souls of the evil Druids was an interesting one, and the small glimpses of the world of the Fay (Fairie) was interesting, especially the character Adam Black, who I hope will get his own story.  The added interactions with the hero's family added a humor and a more personal feel to the story.<br />However, there were a few problems I had with the book that prevented me from giving it a higher rating. One, is that although it is supposed to be a stand alone book, from my point of view it would have been easier to read the story of the hero's brother, Drustan, which was the prequel to Dark Highlander. It would have clarified some confusion about what really happened and why the hero, Dageaus was cursed in the first place. The second was the ending! It felt completely rushed and the whole confrontation with the thirteen Druid souls and the sect who worshipped him was anticlamatic. The author does not detail WHAT EXACTLY happened. The reader was left with the feeling of- that's it???<br />But overall, the story was good. There is great built up between the characters, the action was good and love story great. I will definitely read more from this author.	2003-05-27
US	52008064	R2A7380ZVER6JX	0060198761	565304598	Running Scared	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not as good as Moving Target	I enjoyed Elizabeth Lowell's first entry in the Rarities Series with Moving Target, and of course wanted to read the second novel, Running Scared. I knew the protagonists would be Risa and Shane and that further added to my curiousity as they seemed really interesting in Moving Target. However, in reading the book, I found that Ms. Lowell did not do them justice. I found that most of the book centered more on the bad guys then the lead couple. You never really see their romance blossom until almost the middle of the book. I found there was very little characterization for the hero, Shane. You never really see what it is that makes him tick, why he was falling for Risa, or anything more except for the superficial. Risa was a little more fleshed out but on the whole I felt these two characters were left out in the cold. There is even a paranormal element in the book concerning Risa and Shane that simply was not elaborated on! Unlike Moving Target, where the evidence of paranormal and history is felt strongly throughout the book, and the growth between the couple is much stronger. More focus was needed on the romance in order to make the book more enjoyable.<br />However, as usual, Ms. Lowell does her research and the information on Celtic gold and Druids was interesting. Even the mystery was ok, even though a little too neat. The appearance of old characters from older books was really welcome.<br />All in all, I just think she should have balanced it out more, like she did with the first book in the series. Hopefully we will see more of this couple in the next book and see how there relationship has progressed. Definitely not her best, but I still look forward to Rarities #3.	2002-06-03
US	52008064	R3CDOG7UFWJT8D	0843949945	546367854	Dark Guardian (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 8)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Pretty good.	I am a big fan of Christine Feehan, and I love her &quot;Dark&quot; series. Overall, I really enjoyed her newest installment in Dark Guardian. But there were a few quibbles that I had with the book that prevented me from giving it a higher rating. Mostly they centered around Jaxx, the heroine. When we first meet her and read about her life in the first chapter, I was looking for a completely different human heroine than what we have seen in the other Dark books. Since she was a policewoman, trained by the Navy Seals as a child, I thought she would be more centered and mature as a character. While there were some instances she displayed this throughout the book, overall I felt she was not as &quot;fleshed&quot; out as she could have been, especially considering her profession. At times I felt she was not deserving for the hero.<br />However, Lucian was great. Perhaps it is because he is a true ancient, but he was very mellow and understanding, and allowed Jaxx more freedom than some other Carpathians we have read about. And I really was moved by the part were he tells Jaxx about the &quot;man&quot; who told him about Gabriel's lifemate. The end was also moving, in which we see a reunion of sorts with most of the Carpathians. Like I said, overall enjoyed this book, although not as much as Dark Legend, which was the story of Gabriel, Lucian's twin brother. <br />But it kept me entertained and I look forward to the next one.	2002-05-11
US	52008064	R34BDNEMAVSE2R	0843949945	546367854	Dark Guardian (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 8)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Pretty good.	I am a big fan of Christine Feehan, and I love her &quot;Dark&quot; series. Overall, I really enjoyed her newest installment in Dark Guardian. But there were a few quibbles that I had with the book that prevented me from giving it a higher rating. Mostly they centered around Jaxx, the heroine. When we first meet her and read about her life in the first chapter, I was looking for a completely different human heroine than what we have seen in the other Dark books. Since she was a policewoman, trained by the Navy Seals as a child, I thought she would be more centered and mature as a character. While there were some instances she displayed this throughout the book, overall I felt she was not as &quot;fleshed&quot; out as she could have been, especially considering her profession. At times I felt she was not deserving for the hero.<br />However, Lucian was great. Perhaps it is because he is a true ancient, but he was very mellow and understanding, and allowed Jaxx more freedom than some other Carpathians we have read about. And I really was moved by the part were he tells Jaxx about the &quot;man&quot; who told him about Gabriel's lifemate. The end was also moving, in which we see a reunion of sorts with most of the Carpathians. As said before, overall I enjoyed this book, although not as much as Dark Legend, which was the story of Gabriel, Lucian's twin brother. <br />But it kept me entertained and I look forward to the next one.	2002-05-11
US	52008064	R34UFREPZGGI93	084394952X	372620519	Dark Legend (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 7)	Books	5	30	34	N	N	A great addition to the series....	I have been hooked on the Dark series since the first book and have not been disappointed with any book. With each new one, Christine Feehan adds more and more to the stories, keeping readers enticed. This newest book tells the story of Gabriel, one of the legendary ancient twin brothers that have been mentioned in past books. I loved both Gabriel and especially Francesca, who despite everything was able to accept Gabriel and not overlook her duties as his lifemate. With Dark Legend we are introduced also to Lucian, Gabriel's twin and his seemingly dangerous foe, or is he? Lucian was captivating, and it was refreshing to see the protagonists overcome something other than vampires or human enemies. The question in the book was centered around the fact that Lucian may have turned, and if he did, how is his twin to deal with him? This dilemna added a refreshing change to the book, keeping you in suspense. Along with interesting new characters (who I hope we will see more of), Dark Legend was a great addition to the Dark Series. I cannot wait until the next book.	2002-01-06
US	52008064	RLX0893PQM6JI	0505524171	839032157	The Warrior (Olympus Series, Book 2)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A good summer read.	This is the first book I read in this new series by Nance and I found it to be enjoyable. The premise of the book was interesting- a new twist on Greek mythology- featuring Zeus and Hera, once king and queen of the &quot;gods&quot;, as matchmakers. The characters were well portrayed, especially the hero Armond, the descendant of Ares, the god of war. The dialogue was done with humor, the action believable and the interaction between the gods an extra plus. Although as a whole it kept me entertained, the reason I did not give it a higher rating was that the book was not one of those &quot;grab you by the throat and keep you hooked&quot; kind of books. It lacked a certain intensity. But as a light, summer read it did it's job and kept me entertained. I will get the next in the series.	2001-07-13
US	52008064	R2ML39N38NW221	0380978342	135421562	Ritual of Proof	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not too bad, but could have been better.	I am a big fan of Dara Joy's work and was waiting for this new book to come out along with all her other fans. But as I read I found myself not really being drawn into this world that Dara created. The premise was interesting- futuristic Regency world where women dominate. Unlike others who felt that there was no character development, I thought differently. Slowly, throughout the book you saw each character learn to depend and trust their partners more and more. Some felt that Green manipulated Jorlan and did not really love him, but I thought that was not the case. From the beginning you saw the chances she took for him, because she knew how special he was. She nurtured him and gave him the room to grow as a person and as a man. Just because she did not throw herself at his feet and declare undying love, does not mean she did not love him. Green was a woman with many responsibilities who let actions speak for her in concern to her relationship to Jorlan. So, I feel that I have to defend the characters since they are getting bashed.<br />No, it was not the characters I had trouble with, it was the storyline. Dara never really went in depth about the Snesitive issue, Forus being alive or even why Claudine hated her, for she was the bad &quot;guy&quot; in the book. There were many loose ends in the book, and by the end you are left with no real sense of closure. Yes, Green and Jorlan found each other, but what does there coming together mean for Forus? And what are Green's true abilities? This, added to the fact the glossary was a little bit too extensive for my taste (you had to go and check the back of the book every few pages or so), interfered from me giving this book a higher rating. Like I said the book was not too bad, but could have been much better. Hopefully Dara will consider a sequel because ROP sorely needs it.	2001-06-22
US	52008064	R1KDPKAXWL5JB7	0553106341	334109426	Dust to Dust	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not a bad mystery...	This is the second Tami Hoag mystery I have read, the first being Ashes to Ashes, which I enjoyed. Enjoyed so much that I decided to read the sequel, Dust to Dust. And for the most part, Dust to Dust was not a bad read, the mystery kept you engrossed enough and the twists and turns were enough to be interesting. But what really bothered me was the ending, call me old fashioned, but a little bit of a happier ending would have been better. I was under the impression that this book was a romantic suspense, but there was no romance at all. The ending left one with a sour taste, since neither Kovak nor Liska came away as winners. I hope she writes a sequel and does some justice for these two characters, the book sort of left you wondering what would happen with them. So all in all, not a bad mystery but the ending did not leave me satisfied enough to give it a higher rating.	2001-06-12
US	52008064	R2KMIB636BL18V	1575669072	798558310	Awaken, My Love (Brava Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	In classic Robin Schone style.	As usual Robin Schone has written another gem of a book in her sensual, yet vivid style of writing. The interaction between the characters was, as always, well portrayed and believable. You can feel for both the heroine and hero. And although some would say that the plot was highly unbelievable, that is what reading is all about, being able to suspend your disbelief and immerse yourself in the story. I felt that toward the end of the book (when it really began to pick up) you come to believe this whole story and why it happened. Schone is able to tie the loose ends nicely so that you believe and take it all in.<br />However, there were some sore spots that prevented me from giving this book a higher rating. For one, I found it highly annoying that the heroine did not speak for the first half of the book. Although I could understand why she did not, it still took away some of the initial enjoyment and as a result I felt the story dragged in the beginning. And my second complaint was with the ending, I felt that after everything that had happened, the hero should have acknowledged the heroine by her true name. For me that would have been a more fitting ending. All in all, this book was really good. Not as good as some of Schone's later novels, but still entertaining. A great first book by an author who gets better and better.	2001-06-11
US	52008064	R1CESW11TJ3WTR	0451458028	251250777	The Invisible Ring (Black Jewels, Book 4)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A good read.	Well, I too loved the Dark Jewels trilogy and was lookingforward to this book. The Invisible Ring is set in the same universe,a couple of hundred years before the trilogy takes place. The book wasnever intended to be compared to the others, but to give a glimpseinto the world of the Blood and the corruption that is beingspread. It follows the story of a Warlord Prince who must try toregain his honor and find a reason to still believe in the ways of theBlood amid the abuse and taint he has endured. I thought this book wasgood, because it shows this point clearly throughout the book. It hasadventure, magic, treasury and romance. And the appearance of DaemonSadi in the book was an added bonus.  So don't compare it to thetrilogy, because of course it cannot compare. Just take it for what itis and enjoy it. I did.	2000-10-17
US	52008064	R3L0T9HP0WQQKI	1575666065	987108217	Fascinated	Books	3	26	34	N	N	Again, Robin saves it!	Well, this is the second anthology written by these authors, and like Captivated, I find that the anthology is saved only by Robin Schone's contribution, &quot;A Man and A Woman.&quot; As usual Robin writes with her trademark sensuality and you feel for the characters, especially the hero, who is a previous character from Robin's &quot;A Lady's Tutor.&quot; <br />As in Captivated, I thought Beatrice Small's story was dismal. All it was were two character's having sex. The characters were not portrayed in depth at all. I stopped reading the story halfway through. No stars here.<br />Susan Johnson's story was ok. There was no insurmountable demons on either part of the heroes, making it a little slow. But at times it was amusing and little charming. The heroes were also not so bad. <br />Thea Devine's story was also bad. The characters had a purly sexual relationshiop in my opinion and Devine's fixation on nipples is annoying, just like in Captivated.<br />All in all the only story that was worth the reading was Schone's. And since I have to rate the whole book, I gave it three stars. These authors need to remember that although it is erotic romance, there actually has to be growth and love between the characters, not just sex!	2000-10-04
US	52008064	R1Z4K90TELGQCW	0672317230	997605753	Sams Teach Yourself Adobe Photoshop 5.5 in 24 Hours (Teach Yourself -- Hours)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good start for beginners	I have started with this book and I thought it was pretty good. The book breaks down Photoshop 5.5 into easy to read chapters that any one can follow easily. That is why this book is great for beginners. I did not  bother to do the tutorials from the web since I am not much of an internet  person, but it works well even with your own  pictures. This book is a good  start, and can be used for a tutorial. Much easier to understand than  Photoshop 5.5 Classroom in a Book, which I thought was a trickier read.  This book will make a good referance when you move to more advanced books.	2000-07-03
US	52008064	R2BIRFXQMN4JWE	0380974053	948054774	Midnight in Ruby Bayou (St. Kilda Consulting)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fantastic ending to the series	Like countless others, I have loved the Donovan stories from the first book. Midnight in Ruby Bayou was a fitting end to this great series. The book kept you hooked from the beginning. The story line flowed and the  interaction between the two main characters, Faith and Owen, was great. I  loved both characters. The pain from past mistakes was evident in the  relationship yet the romance kept building! I also loved the glimpses into  the other Donovan siblings and the introduction of the next generation of  Donovans. The book was the perfect blend of government plots, assasins on  the loose, family secrets and romance. If you have not read this series by  Lowell go out and get it. Start from the first book, Amber Beach, and let  yourself fall in love with this family. I hope sometime in the future Ms.  Lowell considers finishing this series with the stories of Lawe and Justin.  But I look forward to her next book in a whole new series.	2000-06-23
US	52008064	R1LDT9G6EOVD2N	0688156126	342456472	Jupiter's Bones: A Novel (Peter Decker & Rina Lazarus Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good addition to the series	I have read all of the novels and I thought this was a good addition to the series. What made the book good was the never ending problems Peter faces in his Orthodox Jewish household. This book focuses more on the  secondary characters we have become familiar with, Decker's two teenage  stepsons and his partner Marge. We see the problems faced by the teenagers  growing up in a religious household while trying to be normal kids. We also  see more into Marge and the changes that will be coming into her life.  <br />The mystery was not to bad, it kept you interested. The only thing that  I have to say is that Kellerman's books seem to be leaning more toward  violent scenes during the policework. Not that that is a totally bad thing  but at this rate Peter will be a walking miracle! All in all, a good  addition. <br />And one more thing, I think it is long past that Mrs.  Kellerman get rid of the &quot;Decker/Lazurus mystery&quot; subtitle in her  books!	2000-06-18
US	52008064	RBNS0ASZKDBMI	0821765957	72546079	Key West	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Not bad....	This is the second novel that I have read by Stella Cameron, the first being French Quarter, which I really enjoyed. I thought that this book started out strong. I felt myself being drawn into the drama and setting.  Although many complained about the heroine, I thought she was well  portrayed. Sonnie, a woman who was healing from an accident which almost  took her life, returns to Key West to uncover the mystery of what happened  that faithful night. She has been told things she does not believe. As I  continued to read the book the question of Sonnie's sanity came into  question. I found myself being drawn by the same question. Also, others  arose: who was the mysterious blond man and was Ena, Sonnie's seemingly  friendly neighbor, a friend or foe? These mysteries kept me hooked. And  although we knew from the beginning who was involved the real question was  how and why? <br />Now, the only reason I did not give this book a higher  rating was because of the ending. Everything was leading up beautifully  until the last few chapters of the book. I was left disatisfied. I felt  that the explanations were muddled and without direction. The author ties  up the loose ends with Sonnie and Chris but what about tying up the loose  ends for the mystery itself? Romano and Billy were sort of forgotten at the  end. But all in all not a bad read. I would definitely recommend Stella's  previous romantic suspense, French Quarter.	2000-05-18
US	52008064	R2E3XG0NPFO0OW	0441006841	951523061	Obsidian Butterfly (An Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 9)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Stories keep getting better.	I found I liked this latest installment in the Anita Blake books. Obsidian Butterfly finally gives us a glimpse behind the mask of Anita's mysterious friend, Edward. As well as being an assassin for hire, Edward is engaged  with a woman with two kids. Along with that surprise Anita has to deal with  gruesome murders taking place in New Mexico. <br />I found this book to be  refreshing. Although many complained that their was no Jean Claude or  Richard, well I say SO WHAT! This book gave Anita the chance to think about  her relationship with our two heroes as well as the realization of what  could happen when she denies who she is. This book contained a good plot,  interesting new characters and plenty of action. The book focuses on the  police work and sleuthing Anita did originally from her first few novels,  instead of it being bogged down by personal conflicts between her and the  &quot;boys.&quot; Dont get me wrong I love Richard and Jean-Claude as well  as the next person, but if the author chooses to do something different  with Anita's character, what is wrong with that? Definitely a good addition  to the series.	2000-05-08
US	52008064	R1YNE7A1J2FO4U	0505523752	574473600	Dark Gold (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another great book by Feehan!	As the previous two books before it, Dark Gold tells another wonderful story in the Carpathian series. Aidan and Alexandria were great. We see a different side to the Carpathian male in Aidan, who is funny and patient as well as sexy. The heroine was scared with all the changes occuring in her  life yet kept her head above water with her humor and strength. I found  myself laughing out loud while reading this book. The book was set in a  more modern setting and due to this fact I thought the plot went smoothly  and the feelings shared by the characters well portrayed. A different book  than what we have seen but just as good. I look forward to the next one.	2000-05-02
US	52008064	R1H0CP6R0DOFF9	0312202989	529002976	Pisces Rising	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great!	So far I have read all the books in the Elizabeth Chase series and I have to say this one is the best so far. Picking up where it left off, we see Elizabeth struggle with grief over losing her fiancee. The fast paced action and dialogue keep the book flowing as well as the mystery behind the  murder. Elizabeth's psychic abilities are explored more in this book as  compared to others. And readers are re-introduced to old characters, as  well as the introduction of new ones, such as the Native American Sequoia.  I found his character to be interesting and I hope we see him in future  novels. Definitely her bext book yet for Martha Lawrence. Look forward to  the next one.	2000-04-24
US	52008064	R1BI46KDSKVDTK	1575665700	656376580	The Lover	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good	This is the first novel I have read from Robin Schone and I found that I liked it, including the explicit love scenes. I applaud any author who has the boldness to write books which might be explicit or controversial. For  those who had complaints, the book was specifically labeled erotic romance  and while it did have suspense and mystery elements to it, many romances  are like that and are still labeled just that- romances. Also, in regard to  certain criticism about the scene at the end with the chocolate, it has to  be understood that the heroine was under the effect of shock, adenaline and  nerves. When you're body is under something like that, it needs an outlet  and in this case it was sex.<br />The only reason I did not give it a higher  rating was that I thought their should have been more growth and  development between the two main characters. At the end of the book you  don't get a full sense of what it is the Michael and Anne feel for one  another. In that regard, I agree with some of the reviewers out there. But  all in all, not to bad. Hopefully we will see what happened with these two  in the sequel, which will be Gabriel's story.	2000-04-12
US	52008064	RRGX7UT8O52Y1	0441005241	733422192	Burnt Offerings (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 7)	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Not her best..	First off let me say I am a big fan of Hamilton's Anita Blake series and I understand that in series some books are better than others. Well, let me say that Burnt Offerings was my LEAST favorite. For some reason this book  left me cold. I thought the story was slow and not in keeping with her  usual faster paced stories. There were scenes that I felt were drawn out,  especially were Anita is helping put out the fires and rescuing the  vampires. And even that scene came late in the book, although the cover  tells us that this is what the story is mainly about. I think Hamilton was  short on ideas for this book and could have easily moved straight from The  Killing Dance to Blue Moon WITHOUT this one. The only interesting thing  about the book was the introduction of Asher, Jean- Claude's old friend. I  thought his character was appealing and I look forward to seeing him in  future books. But this one didn't do it for me, but dont' worry I will love  Anita Blake no matter what!	2000-03-20
US	52008064	R2FR0L3F96TI1	0441005748	552287926	Blue Moon (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Not that bad.	I thought Blue Moon was a much better book than the one that came before, Burnt Offerings. The book was faster paced and finally deals more with the  triumverate that is shared by Anita, Richard and Jean-Claude and how it is  beginning to affect each of them. So in that regard the book was fine. I  did have a few problems with the book that kept me from giving it five  stars. First, throughout the book, we see Anita's powers grow and it seems  that everytime you turn a page it's something new. Everything was thrown in  too quickly and I think Hamilton should have introduced these new powers in  later books. Second, as a result of these growing powers, Anita healed  almost everyone in the book! It seemed that no matter how bad you were  hurt, Anita could fix it. I found this hard to accept.<br />But other than  that the book was pretty good. Many peolpe have said that the book was too  graphic, especially the sex scenes. But what people don't seem to grasp is:  this is how Anita creates or brings about the powers of the marks. It was  primarily based on lust and will continue to be so! That is why, when I see  people saying that Anita should choose between Richard or Jean-Claude, I  say she can't! She is bound to them both, and it is this struggle that we  will see in future books. As the series continues we will see Anita's  humanity and morals put into question. And Blue Moon is were we see much of  that beginning to happen. So for those who say is was too graphic, there is  a reason for it. I love the Anita Blake series and look forward to the next  book and what awaits our heroine!	2000-03-20
US	52008064	R2AXVCT0PQXTOX	1575665379	335624640	The 10th Kingdom (Hallmark Entertainment Books)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Loved it.	I picked this book up at the drug store because I had heard about the TV miniseries. I loved it. It was a mixture of all those fairy tales you were told as a kid but with an adult mix. You get to see what really happens  with Snow White, Cinderalla and Little Red Riding Hood a few years down the  line. Believe in &quot;happily ever after?&quot; Well it happens for all  those characters in the book: Wolf, Virginia and her father. I finished  reading this book with a good feeling. Now, the only thing I have to do is  wait for the series to come on video, since I didn't get to see the  episodes. But read the book in the meantime!	2000-03-13
US	52008064	R2DYWHUFAAF8AG	0440170842	310658587	Punish the Sinners	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Really good.	This is the first novel I have read from Saul and I admit I was impressed. From the first page it hooks you in and keeps you there. The ending was not typical and much of a surprise. Overall really good book, along the lines  of Stephen King novels, which have that eerie and mysterious flavor to them  that make them such good thrillers. I look forward to reading more of John  Saul's work.	2000-03-13
US	52008064	R4VG6OVG4H0BV	0843944463	561149778	Mine to Take (Futuristic Romance)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Best one yet!	Mine to Take continues the story that was introduced with Knight of A Trillion Starts and Rejar. Of all the books in the Matrix series this one is Dara's best! The plot, dialogue and sexual chemistry in this book were  great. Both the hero and heroine were well suited for each other. The  heroine, Jenise, was portraited as a stronger female character than seen in  the first two novels. Dara is getter better in her writing and it is  evident when you read the Matrix of Destiny series. I love these books and  recommend them highly! I am eagerly waiting for more, especially Traed's  story.	2000-02-22
US	52008064	R2SRI6I9Z82CW3	0505522926	182183058	The White Sun (Futuristic Romance)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	The best in the series	I thought that this was the best of the three in Piel's futuristic series. Arnoth was a great hero- handsome, intelligent, kind and sexy! Despite the pain of his past, he was able to find love with Sierra, who I thought was  great. She was open, innocent, brave and even clumsy. Defintely someone  that Arnoth needed to bring love into his life. What I really enjoyed the  most about this book was the growth between the characters. The plot,  action and alien worlds the author creates were just as intriguing. It is  rare to find a good futuristic book out there and I am glad I had the  opportunity to read Piel's futuristic series. Read them!	2000-02-15
US	52008064	R1N20BP4N2OONJ	0505522683	987276969	The Midnight Moon (Futuristic Romance)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good book	I am a big fan of futuristic and paranormal romances and it's usually difficult to find ones that are really good. But this one was an exception. The story and the characters the author creates are well written. I  especially liked the heroine, Aiyana, who is brave and compassionate and is  willing to risk everything to stop the destruction of her world and that of  others. The hero Dane is just as well matched. The only slight problem I  had was that the ending seemed a little rushed to me, but all in all it  doesn't take away from the overall enjoyment of the book. <br />Arnoths' book  is the next in the series and it's just as good, if not better.	2000-02-15
US	52008064	R2L5EVJVKNU11T	050552337X	964607725	Rejar (Timeswept)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Pretty good.	I have read all of Dara Joy's Matrix of Destiny books and I love them. The sense of excitement and mystery keep me hooked. Dara is an example of an author who gets better as she writes. Of all three I think Mine to Take is  her best in the series.<br />But on to Rejar. I thought this book was good.  The humor, action and plot are well done. And of course, I love Rejar! I  thought he was a great hero. The only complaint I have was with Lilac's  character. But as I thought on it more, I realized that for the time period  of the book and the fact that she was young, these contributed to her  character. Hopefully in future books we will see Lilac's character mature  and grow with time. So for that reason alone, since I know their will be  more books in the series, I can overlook some of the flaws with the  heroine. <br />I am impatiently waiting for the other books in this series,  especially Traed's story (my favorite character.)	2000-02-09
US	52008064	RN1VHH04UDG7	0505523302	21482417	Dark Prince (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fantastic!	This book was great. I am completely hooked on the world that Christine Feehan created in this story. The storyline and the characters are  original. I hope this book is the beginning of a series. Gregori, Jacques  and Aidan (I believe) definitely need their own stories. If you're a fan of  the paranormal or futuristic genre of romance, definitely read this story!  It's a keeper!	1999-10-25
US	52008064	R2JHB4B6V607UV	0312198299	999447608	Aquarius Descending (Elizabeth Chase Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very interesting reading.	This is the first book I read by this author and when I found out it was a series I went and bought the first two. This is definitely the best of the three. The combination of good characters, well run plot and shocking  ending makes this one her best yet.	1999-10-14
US	52008064	R2GLVVY3KR090P	0380782340	229000740	Nobody's Baby But Mine	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great read!	This is the first of SEP's books I have read and I loved it! It laughed and cried with this book. Definitely read this and the sequel Dream a Little Dream, which is just as good!	1999-04-09
