US	52006922	R1SZ5W3R35QO2B	0873377885	649373938	How to Make Patent Drawings Yourself: Prepare Formal Drawings Required by the U.S. Patent Office	Books	5	66	66	N	Y	Do It Right - Do It Yourself - And Save Money!	On the last couple of patent applications I submitted, I ended up doing 90% of the drawings myself because it turned out to be easier than continuously having to correct the mistakes of the draftsman.  My attorney said that my drawings just needed to be shaded and cleaned up a bit, and have the legends applied, but otherwise what ended up going into the applications was essentially my drawings with a few more bells and whistles.  His draftsman had just put them on a light table and copied them as is.  But I still had to pay for the drawings!<br />This book was able to get me the rest of the way there by detailing the regulations that the USPTO puts on drawings.  They're not really difficult, but they ARE specific.  Don't be intimidated by them.  The very simple drawing style specified by the USPTO is to allow clear reproduction and printing.  My attorney charges $295 per figure, and one page can have 2 or 3 figures on it! The last application we submitted had about a dozen figures total. Some of the expense is the work of integrating and describing the drawings, but it is guaranteed to save you money if you do your own drawings.    Besides, this ensures that you will be satisfied with the quality and accuracy.  Don't forget you can also have the draftsman do the difficult 3-D \\"Figure 1\\" bit, and you do the simpler stuff.  Like me, I'll bet you'll find it easier than you thought!	2002-08-17
US	52006922	R2YI53MU1LTH8V	1580083048	328566538	The Inventor's Bible: How to Market and License Your Brilliant Ideas	Books	5	65	68	N	Y	Loaded With Information - Easy To Digest	The thing I like most about \\"The Inventor's Bible\\" is the fact that it flows. There is a background story that runs through the book as we follow the real-life history of ideas as they naturally evolve. <br />Many books for inventors are oriented towards the novelty/toy markets. I have found my own experience of licensing manufacturers quite different (actually easier) than most of the toy inventors' books describe.  Docie's first invention was one born out of near mishap and had true safety value. He considered his first patent weak due to an overcrowded field of competitors, which makes it an even better illustration of how to proceed with an invention. But he knew it was a good idea from the start, because it was conceived from a real-life situation. His battle was differentiating his design from the many similar products already on the market. I believe that this is the #1 issue with most new inventions - closing in on 7 million patents, it's a very crowded field. Nevertheless, for an inventor that's part of the game.<br />My feeling is that if you have something that you KNOW has value, and you've done a thorough patent search and have a good understanding of the prior art, you should be able to justify the expense of a patent application. Then you can approach your potential manufacturers from a position of confidence. All this dancing around with non-disclosure agreements, trying to decide whether your idea is worth anything or not, seems to be putting the cart before the horse. <br />It might take a little patient educating on your part, but if you have something useful, someone will eventually recognize the fact and be anxious to work with you. Select and research the companies you'd like to work with, then carefully court them. Be persistent without being a nuisance. Just remember it's a lot of work for a company to add a new product to their line. You have to appreciate how big a decision it is for them to work with you - but they will! <br />Docie also runs a bona fide invention promotion company, as opposed to all the bogus invention submission companies out there. Remember they're like stockbrokers - they get paid regardless of results, which are usually negligible. Docie's background, interest and reputation ensure an honest and knowledgeable effort, and preclude any of the funny business that is inherent in the other outfits. The essential idea of an invention promotion company is quite valid, which unfortunately gives the bogus outfits their impetus.<br />Good luck with your idea!	2002-08-05
US	52006922	R1BJRHEIBJHVKY	096063889X	165779256	A Course in Miracles, Combined Volume: Text, Workbook for Students, and Manual for Teachers	Books	5	161	178	N	N	A Great Treasure For Those Who Are Ready	There has been a great deal written about ACIM and it all pales in comparison with the experience of the Course itself. That would include this introduction!<br />ACIM is not for everyone. As the Course says, many are called but few choose to respond. If you're ready, your soul will be hungry and ACIM will come to you. Read the Introduction carefully and see how it resonates with your Spirit. There should be no doubt if you're ready.<br />ACIM requires dedication and commitment. There is so much information in each paragraph of text that frequently one must stop and contemplate each sentence in turn! It is counter-productive to read on past sections one has not internalized, so patience is a must.<br />There is a meditation sequence that requires a minimum of one year to complete. Even if you are an experienced meditator, you will probably take a quantum leap in your spiritual awareness and for the first time comprehend the true nature of meditation. This meditation is required in order to grasp the underlying message of the Course and the ability to put oneself instantly into the Presence of God is emphasized throughout the text.<br />ACIM is a two-way street. Along with the peace and confidence that accompanies learning to see the world through the eyes of Christ comes the awesome responsibility of becoming a Teacher of God.	2002-07-15
US	52006922	R339CPJ6IH34XE	1898049203	159038084	Windpower Workshop	Books	5	48	49	N	Y	An Absolute Must-Have For Windmill Enthusiasts	This book contains real practicality, not just empty theory. Talk about &quot;put your money where your mouth is&quot; - Hugh lives on a remote spit of land in Northern Scotland that doesn't even have roads, much less access to the power grid.  If necessity is the mother of invention, there's good reason why he was highly motivated to develop the kinds of simple airfoils and low speed alternator combinations that produced real power.  This rudimentary experience has taken him all over the world for installations and workshops.  I guess having someone like that around makes him a pretty popular guy with his neighbors.<br />This book covers the theory necessary to understand wind energy basics, and proceeds as a how-to manual on shaping a simple turbine out of wood.  It then shows how to build a low speed alternator out of a brake drum.  (There is another book by Hugh called &quot;Brake Drum Windmill Handbook&quot; which goes into more detail).  <br />The challenge is building an electrical generating system that operates at the slow rotational speeds of a wind turbine (e.g. 300 - 500 RPM).  Everybody wants to hook up an automobile alternator, but even if it is optimized for high output at an idle, it probably will not start producing power until it reaches 1800 RPM. (Typically the engine/alternator pulleys have a ratio of 3 or 3.5 to 1 and the engine idles @ 600 RPM).<br />A great little book.	2002-07-11
US	52006922	RYIQ7J0L7IFUG	1559637072	762674346	Reaping the Wind: How Mechanical Wizards, Visionaries, and Profiteers Helped Shape Our Energy Future	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A Blow-By-Blow Account Of Wind Engineering Pioneers	You've got to really want to know about the history of wind power to take on this book.  The author does an exceptional job of chronicalling all the characters and woodsy folklore of the wind power industry for the last three decades or so.  It's a narrow subject, but for anyone interested in how we got where we are in the field of renewable energy, this is it.  (Why do they call it &quot;renewable&quot;?  Forest products are renewable, but wind?).  A couple of pictures would have been fun.  By and large a very unique book.	2002-07-07
US	52006922	R18G48E46DJD1N	0966045513	492063185	From Patent to Profit Tapes (and THINK BOOK)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Helpful, But A Bit Overpriced?	There are four tapes in this series, which cover the basics of patent rights, procedures for acquiring patents, and how to proceed with an idea that you might feel is marketable.  The author advocates deferral of the actual expenses of filing until some kind of commitment has been acquired from a marketing and/or manufacturing outfit.  He apparently has quite a few patents to his name, so he should know what he's talking about.  However, I think that if you truly believe a design is marketable, it makes the process much simpler to get the patent applied for up front, then proceed from a strong negotiating position.  It's nice to say \\"Hello, I have a patent pending on a widget I think you would be very interested in\\". <br />No, it's not cheap to apply for a patent (I just wrote my attorney a check for close to $6,000 and I did the search myself).  Here's a tip:  don't assume that the people you're trying to partner with understand what a patent is.  I found that the entire market segment I've been dealing with doesn't know the difference between a copyright, patent or trademark, much less the difference between a utility patent and a design patent.  That certainly explained some of the weirdness I was experiencing!  Actually, don't assume ANYTHING when trying to market your idea.<br />The first two tapes cover the most basic aspects of what a patent is and isn't.  The third and fourth tapes were what I found most useful - the qualities of good marketing and manufacturing companies, strategies on dealing with various corporate entities, what kinds of situations to avoid, and various tricks of the trade.  This section was quite good.  However, there are a couple of things that bug me a little bit about the tape series:<br />1. The author stumbles through parts of the presentation.  A good producer would have made him clean it up.  It's really annoying, like he kept losing focus or jumbling his notes or something.  He should either have rehearsed better or re-recorded those sections.<br />2. I kept getting caught off guard when there would suddenly be silence at the end of each side of the tapes.  There should have been an announcement to re-cue or change tapes.<br />3.  The program sides seemed short to me.  I never timed them, but there appeared to be a lot of tape left at the end of each side. <br />4.  I feel it's a bit expensive for what you get, considering the above items.<br />Would I still recommend this tape series for a new inventor? Absolutely.  You can't afford NOT to listen to all the advice you can from experienced inventors.  Each has a unique perspective and there's always at least one thing that you will find invaluable in your endeavor.  Besides it's pretty hard to find this kind of stuff on tape.<br />Good Luck!	2002-07-07
US	52006922	R2INHGAVKVXLGR	1890132071	412208540	Wind Energy Basics: A Guide to Small and Micro Wind Systems	Books	5	24	27	N	Y	Small Wind Power Generation - A Good Overview	From an individual's viewpoint (as opposed to an electrical utility), this is an excellent introductory text.  I was surprised at how clearly presented the material was, while still mantaining enough of the technical formulas and rules-of-thumb to have substance.  Mr. Gipe lays out the options open to anyone interested in implementing some sort of home-based electrical generation wind system and surveys a range of available products that fall into this area of the wind turbine market.  Important decision-making parameters are discussed and the reader is given a good ball-park idea of how to proceed.  I will be ordering the book &quot;Wind Power For Home And Business&quot; in order to fill in some of the details.	2002-05-31
US	52006922	R1K7PP1NBIXRRU	0028642201	919907678	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Cashing in On Your Inventions	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Advice From Soup To Nuts	I tried plowing through this book from beginning to end and found it much more valuable as a general reference than as a step-by-step guide.  This is because every case is different and requires different treatment in handling the patents and trademarks involved.  The author puts forth various alternative approaches to patenting, licensing, trademarking, manufacturing, etc. - each section is useful in ascertaining the best approach you should take in your own particular case. <br />There are many options that may not occur to someone like myself who is going through this process for the first time, so it is a big help to be mentored by someone who's been down that road before.<br />Bruce Boatner<BR>Inventor, PEGASUS Wind Engine (TM)	2002-05-31
US	52006922	R1O66VZN3F5JBR	0486411443	349374007	Patents and How to Get One: A Practical Handbook	Books	5	40	43	N	Y	Just The Facts, M'am	This little book is an invaluable reference to patent facts and law.  Although published by a third party, it was originally a government issued publication and is one of those crystal-clear presentations that has obviously been crutinized and clarified to the max.  Most of the books on getting a patent and cashing in on your invention are so packed with ancillary information that the really basic (and important) information is buried.  <br />This book is very easy to read and addresses all frequently asked questions, as well as anything that would be important to your quest for a patent.  I like the bit about how to get a patent if the inventor is insane.  Aren't all inventors a bit &quot;like that&quot;?	2002-05-21
US	52006922	R22NMRJX6L5OKE	0966884817	977375834	Journey Through Pet Loss - Revised Edition 2000	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Ways To Work Through Your Grief	Sometimes losing a dear animal friend can seem more overwhelming than the loss of a human in our lives.  This is one of the many things that complicate the grieving process.  The author explains that there are many bounds set by society and our own inner voice that attempt to dictate how long and how much we should mourn a beloved companion's passing.  She explains why the loss of an animal can be a much more raw experience than the loss of a family member, friend or relative because of the mixed feelings and complicated relationships that we have with other humans.  That simple, loving animal spirit that was so close to you is suddenly gone.  There is no buffering element, no memories of a heated exchange that soured your relationship - nothing to blunt the pain.  This can bring feelings of confusion and guilt, or painful memories of the loss of a child or spouse, and many other emotions.  The author does an excellent job of explaining the reasons for these feelings, and suggests many different ways of working through them.  She explains the phases of the grieving process and where to find help if serious emotional states are triggered.  She also explains that we frequently project a part of our own psyche onto our pets, which can unleash unexpected effects on their passing.  <br />Despite the fact that I might have made this sound rather technical, it is not.  The author puts forth a very gentle and concerned effort to do what the title implies - help you through the journey of pet loss.	2002-04-24
US	52006922	R22RYWXK5C84EA	1559276509	358488108	Kindred Spirits: How the Remarkable Bond Between Humans and Animals Can Change the Way We Live	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Question Is: So What's New Here?	Geez, it's been done a ba-jillion times already, hasn't it?  Animals as healers, teachers, guides, yadda yadda yadda.  <br />Well, what's different here is that the author has some authority, being a DVM.  Besides some rather heart-warming tales, which we would hope for in a book like this, Dr. Schoen offers a great deal of doctorly advice, but from the fresh perspective of someone who has been somewhat liberated from the strictly allopathic (or whatever it's called in animal medicine) view of drugs and surgery as the cure for everything.  <br />The author has hands-on experience with animal acupuncture, as well as alternative modalities such as herbs, nutrition and homeopathy.  He also instructs the layperson how to perform a general physical exam, how to handle issues like old age, serious diseases and ultimately death with the proper dignity and perspective deserving of a furry family member.<br />It all boils down to how you feel about animals, I guess.  My black lab Sugar Bear is my constant companion and has been since puppyhood, so I hung on every word.  And yes, sometimes the best way to be a healer for your animal is to take them to a good vet!	2002-04-20
US	52006922	R2IP66HWTXP04L	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	5	9	15	N	N	And On The Eighth Day, Man Created God	Karen Armstrong is like the kid in the crowd who points out \\"The Emperor has no clothes!\\"  She painstakingly weaves the evolution of a jealous, violent, and partisan God of the Old Testament to a more ethereal and abstract modern-day version.  As the old saying goes, \\"God created Man, and Man returned the favor\\".  God, having had every manner of human weakness foisted upon Him by generations of superstitious and power-hungry holy men, gradually becomes more enlightened as a reflection of the evolving moral consciousness of each new era. <br />The attempt of a dualistic consciousness to describe a non-dualistic reality is of course a bit of a lost cause.  The simple acknowledgment of the existance of a Creator by its creations would by definition preclude the lesser from ever understanding the true nature of the greater.  The internal inconsistencies of fundamentalist theology are legion.  One simple example of this is the simultaneous belief that a) God is infinite, and b) God can get angry, then forgive.  <br />If God is infinite then He cannot change His mind, because to change requires separate states in time, and God, being infinite, is a non-temporal being living outside the bounds of time.  If God lives within time, then He had to have a beginning in time (even if that beginning were the beginning of time), in which case He is not infinite.  It's got to be one or the other, and yet most theologies would insist on both.<br />These inconsistencies point out that the \\"Word Of God\\" upon which institutions down through the ages have based their moral authority is really all about power and control, not Divine Guidance. Perhaps most importantly, however, is the idea that the concept of God represents our highest ideals and strivings.  He is the ultimate projection of what is divine within ourselves, and is real in that most of us would believe that we have the spark of divine essence within us.	2002-04-20
US	52006922	RE9FYSFXHI1IE	1571742352	735489406	Mental Radio (Studies in Consciousness)	Books	5	45	46	N	Y	Stepping Out On A Limb For The Sake Of Truth	Upton Sinclair took a considerable gamble by writing this book and had to withstand a good deal of criticism as a consequence of it.  It was obvious, though, that he felt this was a story that needed to be told, and we should be glad he went through with his hunch.<br />The book is essentially a description of a large number of experiments done in the areas of mental telepathy and remote reviewing, broken down into sets or groups of sessions.  The author tends to bend over backwards to convince the public of the sincere intentions of all involved in these tests - mostly his wife, himself, his secretary, brother-in-law and several friends and associates.<br />The information is presented in a very frank and accessible manner, without a lot of protocol and formality, because the tests were being carried out by non-scientists who were just trying to be as diligent as possible.  This in turn makes for easy reading by the layman.<br />Chapter 21 is a verbatim account by Sinclair's wife (whom he calls by her middle name, Craig).  It is both a handbook of her methodologies and a fascinating insight into the way she theorizes the workings of the mind.  This is very useful information for anyone wanting a &quot;how to&quot; for remote viewing or telepathic research and is a very simple sequence of instructions.  Of course a great deal of practice would be necessary to achieve the necessary level of concentration required.  But at least one can have a distinct roadmap to follow as opposed to a lot of vague references.	2002-04-18
US	52006922	R1MK1NE7RGH38I	1564557243	608794115	Becoming an Empath: How to Develop the Power of Your Emotional Intuition	Books	5	115	116	N	N	How To Be Empathic While Remaining Balanced	Karla McLaren's workshop on tape is just about the right length, and presents about the right information at about the right depth.  The idea of someone being or wanting to become an empath speaks volumes about that individual even before the first step is taken or the first idea is taught.  If the meek are to inherit the Earth, you'll find a quorum here.<br />It has been said that the voice is the barometer of one's being, and if so Karla's is beautiful (in both respects).  Here is the voice of experience, one who has taken her childhood wounds and used them as a vehicle to transcend the common mold, to become a butterfly rather than choosing to remain a victim.<br />Karla explains what an empath is and highlights the differences between clairvoyance, clairaudience and clairsentience.  She explains the theory of the five elements of the human personality and presents a powerful working model for balancing the psyche.  No part of the personality should be squelched because a  person is &quot;too sensitive&quot;.  What really needs to be accomplished is the balancing of a dominant attribute by bolstering other aspects of the personality. (This portion of the tape alone is so interesting and useful that it could be considered a seminar in its own right.)<br />Karla teaches the inner skills of self knowledge, emotional agility and humility, and the importance of external support systems such as healthy relationships, good boundaries and the ability to create separations. She explains how to maintain a sense of personal space, of grounding and image releasing, and other skills necessary to protect against the energy overloading that may be associated with emotional over-exposure.  She also teaches the skills of listening without projecting one's own judgements into the picture.<br />She talks about the primary emotions - anger, fear, sadness, depression and suicidal tendencies - their many and varied derivations and disguises, and shows that emotions are messengers, not problems.  She exposes the awesome primal power that can be tapped into by communicating with the emotions and the deep insights they can yield, and provides the specific questions that should be asked in the presence of each emotion.  Fantastic!<br />I think the word &quot;skills&quot; is the cornerstone of this seminar.  It's all about learning how to handle situations with finesse, rather than force, and a bit of &quot;by the book&quot; is a nice balance to the obvious emotional predilection of the subject matter.ot problems.  She exposes the awesome primal power that can be tapped into by communicating with the emotions and the deep insights they can yield, and provides the specific questions that should be asked in the presence of each emotion.  Fantastic!<br />I think the word &quot;skills&quot; is the cornerstone of this seminar.  It's all about learning how to handle situations with finesse, rather than force, and a bit of &quot;by the book&quot; is a nice balance to the obvious emotional predilection of the subject matter.	2002-04-12
US	52006922	R10AMU8LV9ZS3T	0899261213	786190290	All Things Wise and Wonderful	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Unabridged Audio Set Is Wonderful!	The reading on the audio cassettes is done by Christopher Timothy, the actor who plays James Herriot on the BBC series &quot;All Creatures Great And Small&quot;.  He does a magnificent job of Sigfried, Tristan and all the dales farmers.  It is truly a delight to listen to this series of tapes - it takes you into another world.<br />(Note: there appears to be an error above, listing Edmund Stoiber as the reader.)<br />In this set, James has joined the RAF to support the war effort, though fate has other plans for him.  We follow his attempts to get in shape and become a pilot, as events and people remind him of his many experiences back in his vet practice.  <br />Perhaps because of the War Years, some of these stories are slightly more edgy, such as a rash of dog-poisonings and an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease that is uncomfortably reminiscent of recent events.  But overall there is that sweetness of tone that pervades all of Herriot's work.<br />I think my favorite story was the old farmer fetching two gallons of the local pub's best beer in a milk bucket in order to warm a mother pig to her new family.  Of course he saved a &quot;drop&quot; for himself and his mates. The amazing thing about these books is that there is never a repeated story throughout the whole series.	2002-04-11
US	52006922	RH9S5KMS44JIZ	0671582275	639916239	Pet Sematary	Books	4	0	1	N	N	BBC Audio Production/Abridged	There was a lot of work that went into this audio production, with a fairly large cast of voices.  I listen to quite a few books on tape while driving, all unabridged and undramatized, so this was &quot;something completely different&quot; as they'd say on Monty Python.  I enjoyed it, but at same time all the screaming and cacophony that occured in parts jangled my nerves.  It's one thing for a horror flick, but this was a bit annoying.  <br />The music and sonic interludes, such as trucks running down the highway, further decreased the overall dialog time and created a deeply abridged version, forcing some fairly important parts to be left out.  The original music and some of the spooky ghost sounds were good, though, and added a lot to the mood.  <br />Overall, it was enjoyable as a change of pace.	2002-04-03
US	52006922	R201W749TBCZY5	1571741593	187250578	Remote Viewing Secrets: A Handbook	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Jam Packed With Practical Information	Personally I feel incredibly lucky to have found this book. If you are on a quest in your life, to discover who you are and what you can do, there are certain things that will resonate with you at milestones on your journey. This book contains a great deal of straightforward information and advice to those who have experienced, would like to experience, or are interested in knowing more about remote viewing.<br />Remote viewing is different from almost any of the other \\"psychic phenomena\\" out there. (Personally I disdain the word \\"psychic\\", but alas the alternative words are often worse). There seems to be a natural, innate ability in most people to spontaneously form feelings and images with respect to never-before-seen targets. Of course this talent varies, but at least it's a lot easier than bending spoons or levitating saltshakers.<br />About 15 years ago I read a book by Russell Targ and Keith Harary called \\"The Mind Race\\" which discussed the remote viewing work being done at SRI (Stanford Research Institute). The book went into a great deal of detail about how the experiments were set up and carried out. These protocols, it turns out, are the second ingredient that sets remote viewing apart. Not only is it do-able by most of us, but it can actually be done with some degree of scientific method (which to the general public means integrity).<br />Contrast this with dowsing, for example. Dowsing does work, but spending several years around the dowsing community while trying to maintain some semblance of objectivity will reveal a general propensity for self-delusion among its practitioners. This is not to say they're trying to defraud anyone - most are very sincere people - it's more likely that without the proper controls it's just too easy to fool yourself.<br />That is what happens when there are not stringent protocols applied to the methods. The desire for success begins to corrupt the whole process. The wonderful thing about remote viewing experiments constrained by protocols is that they produce RESULTS THAT ARE MEASURABLE. This, in turn, yields a validation of the entire process and its participants. Not to say that it doesn't have its share of detractors.<br />I personally think that we have not even scratched the surface of RV. Human consciousness is dependent on belief systems (believing is seeing), and I think that the methods and protocols employed in RV are going to allow it to break through a critical barrier that will encourage newcomers to look forward towards fantastic possibilities, as opposed to constantly checking over their shoulders for the Reality Police. No matter how much of an independent spirit someone may be, one can tread water only so long in the Sea of Uncertainty.<br />Mr. McMoneagle suggests considering the journey into RV as stages of martial arts training, and espouses the values of Zen discipline. It is said that one cannot understand Zen without taking up one of the Zen arts as a vehicle for attaining wisdom. RV could be such an art, creating a two-way street of advancement in both the art of RV and the path to enlightenment.<br />In light of this, may I recommend two excellent texts:<br />\\"Zen In The Art Of Archery\\" by Eugen Herrigel, and<br />\\"The Unfettered Mind: Writings of the Zen Master to the Sword Master\\" by Takuan Soho<br />To speculate on how imaging might work and how all things are connected (and just plain fun to read):<br />\\"The Holographic Universe\\" by Michael Talbot<br />Also, to speed-dial your ability to focus and visualize, attending a Silva Mind Control seminar might prove incredibly valuable. One weekend at the Basic will teach you a lifetime's worth of skills. I took the seminars way back when Jose Silva was still teaching some of them himself, so I don't know whether they're still available. You can't really learn the subtleties of the self-hypnosis and mental projection skills from the books, though they're better than nothing.<br />Best of luck to you!trained by protocols is that they produce RESULTS THAT ARE MEASURABLE. This, in turn, yields a validation of the entire process and its participants. Not to say that it doesn't have its share of detractors.<br />I personally think that we have not even scratched the surface of RV. Human consciousness is dependent on belief systems (believing is seeing), and I think that the methods and protocols employed in RV are going to allow it to break through a critical barrier that will encourage newcomers to look forward towards fantastic possibilities, as opposed to constantly checking over their shoulders for the Reality Police. No matter how much of an independent spirit someone may be, one can tread water only so long in the Sea of Uncertainty. <br />Mr. McMoneagle suggests considering the journey into RV as stages of martial arts training, and espouses the values of Zen discipline. It is said that one cannot understand Zen without taking up one of the Zen arts as a vehicle for attaining wisdom. RV could be such an art, creating a two-way street of advancement in both the art of RV and the path to enlightenment.<br />In light of this, may I recommend two excellent texts:<BR>\\"Zen In The Art Of Archery\\" by Eugen Herrigel, and<BR>\\"The Unfettered Mind: Writings of the Zen Master to the Sword Master\\" by Takuan Soho<br />To speculate on how imaging might work and how all things are connected (and just plain fun to read):<BR>\\"The Holographic Universe\\" by Michael Talbot<br />Also, to speed-dial your ability to focus and visualize, attending a Silva Mind Control seminar might prove incredibly valuable. One weekend at the Basic will teach you a lifetime's worth of skills. I took the seminars way back when Jose Silva was still teaching some of them himself, so I don't know whether they're still available. You can't really learn the subtleties of the self-hypnosis and mental projection skills from the books, though they're better than nothing.<br />Best of luck to you!	2002-04-03
US	52006922	R2VD8J5DTNT5MD	044023722X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting Characters, But Uneven Story Line	This book could have been called &quot;How I Spent My Summer Vacation, by Luke Chandler&quot;.  Picking cotton, mostly, and not delivering on promises to keep secrets.  Lots of secrets.  Too many secrets, actually.<br />Just about every time the plot would build up a head of steam in the way of suspense, it seemed to bleed it off like an engine with bad compression that can't quite deliver the punch.  Many opportunities for a larger and more satisfying resolution of the internal tensions seemed to have been missed.  When I realized the end of the book was a couple of pages away I thought, &quot;Uh-Oh, we're in trouble here!&quot;  It jist started out slow, and then fizzled out altogether.<br />This book is a color commentary of 50's life in the &quot;Babble Belt&quot;.  It is a nice little story, but lacks the customary edge of many modern novels.  Most of the character interaction is interesting, but some seemed a bit implausible to me, such as the young belle running off to marry a snake-eyed Mexican migrant worker who'd gutted and robbed a guy a day or two earlier.  Of course she was unaware of this, and the fact the guy he'd killed happened to be her brother, but still I didn't gauge her to be that poor a judge of character.  A good roll in the hay, by all means.  Running off to Toronto to get married and start a wonderful new life with Mister Right - I don't think so.<br />Nevertheless,  the story is fulfilling in a strange sort of way.  It's interesting how the generalized local male was portrayed as a thin Baptist veneer overlaying a deep undercurrent of violence.  Despite the fact that insights into the Southern mindset have been handled more skillfully by others, it is still worth a read.	2002-04-02
US	52006922	RFCUDZSX8FX3G	0671582364	44310359	On Writing: A Memoir Of The Craft	Books	5	3	3	N	N	As good as one of his novels!	This is a fascinating piece of work, on many levels and for many reasons.  King serves up vignettes of his own past, his difficult upbringing,  with inspirations for some of his most famous characters and story lines.  <br />He mentions much of his work in the context of his own circumstances of the time - the alcoholic writer in \\"The Shining\\" as a metaphor for himself, \\"Cujo\\" written in an alcoholic and drug-induced haze, \\"The Stand\\" stalled and collapsing under its own weight, recovered by blowing up half the cast.  Then the interdiction by his wife and friends that turned his life around.<br />Little did he know that perhaps the most traumatic episode of his life was about to descend upon him halfway through work on this book.  The story of his near-fatal accident and ensuing recovery forms the last portion of the book and is as harrowing a tale as any of his fiction.<br />This book IS a tutorial on writing, and much valuable information is parlayed, not only at the nuts-and-bolts craft level, but also in establishing realistic assessment of one's future as a writer.  By tracking the development of writers he's watched develop (in addition of course to his own experience), he gives a clear-eyed perspective of life in the literary trenches.<br />Highly entertaining and enlightening, this book is a must for prospective writing professionals and provides a remarkable insight into the mind of a uniquely gifted raconteur. It's a treat for all King fans regardless of any aspirations for picking up the pen.	2002-03-30
US	52006922	R36PYJYLAMISP8	0892132949	466705042	Forbidden Archeology: The Hidden History of the Human Race	Books	4	24	31	N	N	The Controversy is what's really interesting.	Remember Gary Larsen's &quot;Far Side&quot; cartoon of the scientists dropping everything and running outside when the Good Humor truck comes by?  We tend to think of scientists as beyond reproach - but they're not.  They're just as emotional and jumpy as the rest of us, especially when their pet doctrines get called into question.  <br />In Science the drill is to glom onto the accepted belief system and hang on for dear life.  God forbid some punky upstart like Fritjof Capra should come along and write a smart-alecky book about how Vedic texts described the same tenets as Quantum Physics a coupla thousand years ago.  Or Rupert Sheldrake would have the nerve to point out that the DNA emperor has not clothes.  Howls of derision.  Calls for book burning in the journal &quot;Science&quot;.  Yellink und screamink.<br />Now I don't think it takes 900+ pages to make a point.  Probably 150 would have been adequate to get everybody's bowels in an uproar.  The 2-cassette audio abridgement seems to do a pretty good job.  As far as the actual validity of the overall argument - who knows?  The evidence proposed is probably just as valid as the official party line.  <br />It is important to remember that all scientific revolutions go through pretty much the same drill:  Scorn and derision towards those presenting novel or contrary opinions, followed by fear, panic and banishment of those individuals when it begins to appear that empirical data is supporting the new theories, then total abandonment of previously cherished notions, accompanied by jumping on the bandwagon with abandon while announcing that they'd been supporting the new idea all along.<br />So it's really the process that's important here.  Hey, sit back and enjoy the show!	2002-03-24
US	52006922	R22W4QLLW0BS07	0892132833	477402601	Forbidden Archeology's Impact: How a Controversial New Book Shocked the Scientific Community and Became an Underground Classic	Books	4	36	45	N	N	Controversy: The Process That Brings Change	Remember Gary Larsen's &quot;Far Side&quot; cartoon of the scientists dropping everything and running outside when the Good Humor truck comes by? We tend to think of scientists as beyond reproach - but they're not. They're just as emotional and jumpy as the rest of us, especially when their pet doctrines get called into question. <br />In Science the drill is to glom onto the accepted belief system and hang on for dear life. God forbid some punky upstart like Fritjof Capra should come along and write a smart-alecky book about how Vedic texts described the same tenets as Quantum Physics a coupla thousand years ago. Or Rupert Sheldrake would have the nerve to point out that the DNA emperor has not clothes. Howls of derision. Calls for book burning in the journal &quot;Science&quot;. Yellink und screamink.<br />Now I don't think it takes 900+ pages to make a point. Probably 150 would have been adequate to get everybody's bowels in an uproar. The 2-cassette audio abridgement seems to do a pretty good job. As far as the actual validity of the overall argument - who knows? The evidence proposed is probably just as valid as the official party line. <br />It is important to remember that all scientific revolutions go through pretty much the same drill: Scorn and derision towards those presenting novel or contrary opinions, followed by fear, panic and banishment of those individuals when it begins to appear that empirical data is supporting the new theories, then total abandonment of previously cherished notions, accompanied by jumping on the bandwagon with abandon while announcing that they'd been supporting the new idea all along.<br />So it's really the process that's important here. Hey, sit back and enjoy the show!	2002-03-24
US	52006922	R259XKGVMSN835	1879557371	522675888	Sign, Symbol, Code	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Tough Sledding	Let me start by first saying that I got a lot out of this work, and found the subject fascinating. I admire Mr. Eco for his pedagogy and effort in the advancement of the field of semiotics. That said...<br />Umberto Eco reminds me of the neurosurgeon who's invited to dinner at the plumbers' union. He can't seem to lower himself to the level of his audience, and despite the fact that he has much to offer succeeds in conveying only a portion of it to his listeners. This is assuming his intended audience is the general public and not a tiny niche of linguists. The subject of this book is interesting, but is unfortunately largely lost in arcane vernacular. It needs an additional level of translation.<br />Obviously it is difficult to communicate clearly in an specialized field without the use of specialized vocabulary. Any professional can leave the average person stone cold with a bunch of techno-babble, but in the end there has been no real communication.  The trick is to educate strangers to the field while elucidating the finer points of same.<br />Often hindering this process is the mindset among intellectuals that the student should raise himself to the level of the professor.  This idea is horribly flawed and lurking behind the sentiment is often self-aggrandizement on the part of the academic. Stephen Hawkings, probabably the most gifted physicist alive, admits that his first book was a debacle and resolved to change that. His subsequent works, which soared to the top of non-fiction lists world-wide, were in layman's language. And he did not \\"dumb down\\" the subject. \\"The measure of a man's greatness is the way he treats little men\\", said Andrew Carnegie.	2002-03-24
US	52006922	R326UBRJ7VLYCJ	1561709336	674444563	Power vs. Force	Books	5	550	633	N	Y	Ground Breaking Work - A Milestone For Human Consciousness.	The new science of Kinesiology ushered in a powerful diagnostic tool called \\"muscle testing\\". (Muscle testing is a simple procedure for testing strong/weak responses, such as that of an outstretched arm, in response to questioning). Despite the revolutionary nature of these discoveries, most people are willing to rationalize that something other than the \\"conscious mind\\" is at play, something whose function it is to oversee the well-being of the individual and manage the body's myriad complex subsystems. It could then be extrapolated that this benign functionality - \\"subconscious mind\\", \\"field\\" or whatever - would be willing to communicate with the \\"outside world\\" when matters regarding the well-being of its charge were concerned.<br />Dr. Hawkins, however, has taken a quantum leap with the idea of muscle testing. Rather than simply regarding the field or subconscious mind as the governing mechanism of the individual's body, he applied muscle testing in the context of traditional metaphysical paradigms stating that all things are connected, that all events, actions, thoughts and emotions are written into the unlimited Database of Consciousness, and that as participants in this universe, we all have access to that Database. Thus through muscle testing we have the ability to get the answer to any question we can formulate (except pertaining to the future, which has not yet been written into the record). The implications of this are staggering. Did aliens put a face on Mars? Is the government telling the truth about thus-and-such? We now have the means for direct knowledge.<br />Most authors would be content to base an entire book solely on these revelations, but surprisingly this is merely the groundwork laid out by Dr. Hawkins for the rest of the book! Based on thousands of studies using these methods, striving for 100% repeatability on the tests, he explains many aspects of human experience including a Scale of Consciousness. Based on a logarithmic scale of 1 to 1000, all ideas, emotions, concepts, thoughts, works of art, literature and science, resonate at some level. Above the level of 200 these energies are considered nurturing, positive and \\"good\\" (Power). Below 200 are energies that are destructive, negative and \\"evil\\" (Force). <br />Dr. Hawkins explores how \\"attractor\\" energies (mathematics from chaos theory) influence art, science, medicine and sports and examines the specific mechanisms leading to health and disease. He examines the quality of our institutions and discusses the nature of Consciousness and the path to Enlightenment. All concepts are presented with exceptional clarity and lucidity, without any sign of pedantry. Finally, as the title of the book suggests, one may attain a quantitative understanding of the difference between Power and Force.<br />This book is an absolute must for anyone searching for a better understanding of \\"how reality works\\".	2002-03-23
US	52006922	R22OX404ON9L6J	0375724370	924994086	Anil's Ghost: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Different Kind Of Murder Mystery	Anil, an Americanized Sri Lankan, returns to her homeland as a forensic specialist representing a Geneva-based human rights organization. This story has some of the same feel, but is a more pocket-sized version of \\"The English Patient\\", at least in simplicity of story-line. Actually I liked it better than \\"English Patient\\" because it was more straightforward in its presentation and appeared to be an attempt to educate the public about the unholy mess that is Sri Lankan politics. <br />The story evolves around the relationship of Anil with her locally-assigned counterpart, whom she sometimes suspects as being too closely tied to the government. Through the voices of the various characters that Anil encounters in her search to identify the remains of a murdered unknown, the true horror of the government/insurgent/counter-insurgent struggle unfolds. <br />The book ends with somewhat of a jolt, but nevertheless leaves one with a sense of completion and a bit of hope.	2002-03-22
US	52006922	R346DEDWWCLNTA	0670858692	40528119	Rose Madder	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Fine Line Between Hope, Fear and Insanity	Rosie's ex, Norman, is one mean dude.  A real nasty package.  He's taken a month's vacation to \\"visit relatives\\" and he's got plenty of time to put his cop/detective skills to good use, to find his wife and have a talk with her \\"up close\\".  She's walked out after years of horrible abuse and things are looking up for her.  But now she can feel him getting closer. People in her new circle of friends are dying. You can feel him getting closer, too, and it'll make you want to scream.<br />But Normie's having a tough time.  He's  having more and more of those little spells where he can't account for how things happened or where the time went.  But his hatred drives him on - his sole goal to find Rosie, to make her pay.  Normie's like a fox closing in on the hare.  It looks like the outcome is inevitable, but what if the hare were ... rabid?  Maybe Normie would do well to follow the voice he hears in his head, of his molesting father, that advises \\"maybe you should just turn around, Normie; you could call it a draw.\\"<br />Then there's the mysterious painting, and the plot that keeps turning on a dime just about every time you think you're on track.<br />Not to put too fine a point on it, but there is a very interesting underlying element in this book that has to do with the nature of victims and victimizers.  As the story progresses, our opinion of Norman changes as we understand more about how he related (and still relates) to his dead father.  Not that we become sympathetic, but the internal dialogs are interesting and often even a bit amusing.  My belief that S.K. felt this was an important thematic component of this work is reenforced by the character shifts that occur in Rosie-the-victim near the end of the story. I hope I'm not reading too much into the author's intent, but I found the conjecture intriguing.	2002-03-22
US	52006922	R12N16NT3BKNET	0786868031	230672770	My Country Versus Me: The First-Hand Account by the Los Alamos Scientist Who Was Falsely Accused of Being a Spy	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Understand How Our System Of Justice Works	This is a must-read, sort of a user's manual for the modern American Justice System, and how the government, specifically the FBI, operates.  As of this writing, there are still hundreds, perhaps thousands, of detainees being held without charge after the events of September 11th.<br />Your rights are not of particular relevance to some of our government agencies.  Recall the false accusation of the security guard suspected in the Atlanta Olympic bombing, the fiasco at Ruby Ridge where a woman and baby were shot by an FBI sniper, the extraordinary use of force in the Waco debacle, again in the Elian Gonzales saga - the list, unfortunately, seems to be growing.<br />Mr. Lee was held for about 9 months on nebulous charges, mostly in solitary confinement and in shackles, and was finally released under a flimsy plea-bargain agreement after an embarrassed government prosecution team was forced to throw in the towel.  One of the prosecutors sued Mr. Lee for defamation of character (!) for being called a liar (which he was), and of course lost the case. Mr. Lee was charged with something like 59 felonies, approximately 37 of which carried the death penalty.  On his release, the judge apologized at great length concerning the copious abuses that had been visited upon him by his government.  <br />A rabid FBI, and an even more rabid press, crucified a nearly innocent man.  I say \\"nearly innocent\\" because Mr. Lee as a citizen didn't seem to be in the least interested in the Democratic process, never voted, never got involved in anything outside his little world.  He traveled to China and Taiwan, meeting with and giving lectures to Communist nuclear scientists, etc., which seems incredibly naive to me, whether or not it was sanctioned by the AEC and DoD at the time.  <br />The security infringement that Mr. Lee pled guilty to, which was a common practice among many working at Los Alamos, was minor compared to the violations of CIA Director Deutch (who went Scot Free).  The book would have been a bit more powerful had Mr. Lee avoided the temptation to vent and rant on occasion, allowing the story to carry its own weight and the reader to elicit their own opinions.  But I can't blame him.<br />Not a particularly easy read - nevertheless a very important work.	2002-03-16
US	52006922	REYBUPK3BJ01M	055380202X	135474617	The Universe in a Nutshell	Books	5	0	0	N	N	When Hawking Speaks...	This book is ostensibly a continuation of the landmark work \\"A Brief History Of Time\\", but I took it to be more of a recap. When the former was written, Hawkings felt that the formulation of the Universal Theory Of Everything was right around the corner, just waiting to be discovered. He seems to have shifted his view on this matter to a more conservative position.<br />With the concepts and implications of Relativity, Quantum and String Theories, among others laying such an important foundation for today's world view, it is helpful to hear these ideas revisited with Hawking's patent clarity. (My theory is that it's his own complete understanding of the subject that allows him to communicate with the layman).<br />New concepts are introduced here, the ball is moved a bit forward, and some interesting conjectures on the metaphysical implications of modern physics are bandied about. The nice thing is that someone with Hawking's credentials can afford to talk like this without getting hounded out of his profession.	2002-03-14
US	52006922	R25ODYQ43DC5JT	0316116726	182280380	Connections	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Enlightening And Entertaining	This delightful book is what we all wish all our Science classes were like. Mr. Burke shows amazing correlations between events and inventions, from the button to the Bomb and back again. <br />The book starts out with the subtle events leading to a huge Northeast blackout. We observe how technology is a double-edged sword which first frees us, then ultimately makes us entirely dependent on our own conveniences. <br />Many everyday expressions and ideas such as \\"lime light\\" are traced to their anachronist origins. Lots of fun!	2002-03-13
US	52006922	RPPVIVAMUUZIB	0446529540	552279058	Futureland	Books	3	2	6	N	N	A very different kind of future.	This book presents a very dark and unusual glimpse into the future, but I found the pace, tone and presentation very odd and uncomfortable.  I also felt that most of the future projections and many of the characters (like the infant boy genius) seemed highly unlikely and improbable.  And from a PC standpoint, it appears most likely that the WASP will be the social outcast of the future. <br />Walter Mosley's devotees must love his style and it has probably served him well in the past with non-techno works.  I guess you'll either love it or hate it.   But I notice even his fans refer to his work as \\"flawed\\".  Hmmm.	2002-03-10
US	52006922	R2V1YH1WCUISB2	0140072187	527630151	Chickenhawk	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A Heart-Rending Account From A Viet Nam Vet's "Everyman"	I would imagine that every person who reads this book will interpret it differently based on their own history and experiences. Being an ex-crewchief serving immediately after Mason left Viet Nam, I found this book both profoundly disturbing and cathartic at the same time. <br />Now I realize the truth, that the wounds of Viet Nam will probably never heal, for all participants - the foreigners (French/American), the \\"Enemy\\" (VC/NVA), the unwilling civilians, the ARVN, the refugees. It was just too ugly. It was just too much of a corruption of the human spirit. I had almost forgotten how disgusting it was. In a peculiar way reading this book has helped. Now I feel a little better, knowing that I wasn't crazy, jumping up in blind terror in the middle of the night . Or maybe I was crazy, but it's OK. Anyway after 20 or 30 years it gets better. <br />So what have we learned from all this? I think we've learned to displace ourselves from the suffering so we can still exact our deadly vengeance, but not lose sleep over it. Smart bombs. Surgical strikes. Death by video game. <br />What really scrambles people in situations like the Viet Nam war is not the observation of events outside of oneself, but the realization of how one's own psyche has somehow been corrupted by the process.	2001-04-16
US	52006922	R1IRDOHAVQB97R	0938716026	79830166	Ultralight Airmanship: How to Master the Air in an Ultralight (Ultralight Aviation Series)	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Fills A Gap In The Ultralight Pilot's Education	This book is for pilots beyond the beginner stage.  Pick any subject and you'll frequently notice that there's a scarcity of valuable information beyond the student/introductory level, or else the information is too theoretical and analytical to be of much use.<br />This book hits the spot for those of us who've become comfortable with the basics, but are hungry to become better pilots.  There is a dangerous period that pilots go through where we think we've &quot;got it&quot;, but don't really have enough experience (ala JFK Jr.). Jack Lambie states that we should be able to fly in any kind of weather and conditions, handle cross-wind landings, etc., just like G.A. pilots.  <br />This book focuses on how to stay out of trouble, and what to do when you get in trouble.  It also contains much practical information, such as how to handle airport traffic.<br />Between the time that I ordered this book and now, I've had a engine out on a full-power nose-high climbout, with just a couple hundred feet altitude to work with.  The study and practice all paid off in the next 10 seconds.<br />Good Luck and Happy Flying!	2001-02-11
US	52006922	R1ZYH50EWKAK09	0812097130	454933170	Forgotten Statistics: A Refresher Course with Applications to Economics and Business	Books	5	23	56	N	N	Statistics: More Interesting The Second Time Around	This is an excellent refresher for Statistics, laid out logically and with ideas clearly illustrated graphically.  Published by Barron's, these  &quot;Forgotten&quot; books are nicely oriented toward the professional who  needs to brush up on a subject in order to make competent decisions and  communicate intelligently.  <br />&quot;Statistics and Probability&quot; is  one of those amazing sciences that we take for granted from childhood, but  the more we think about it (as we get older, regrettably), it begins to  dawn on us that this is the catalyst of many mysterious processes, such as  the forces of life overcoming entropy.  Science has rather recently  discovered that there is really no such thing as &quot;randomness&quot;,  with the advent of Chaos Theory bringing down the walls of the last bastion  of that idea.  Statistics and Probability then become the focus of means by  which some form of Higher Intelligence manages to do its business under our  noses without us having a clue as to its presence!	2000-08-02
US	52006922	R20649DXFGDK7W	0968632300	5475927	Your Pendulum	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Practical and Straightforward	There is much vital information in this small booklet.  I have found John Living's work inspirational and invaluable in helping to formulate the  BLADES (Bio-Location And DEtection Services) Program that I hope will one  day be able to train personnel in the location of hazardous materials and  explosives in airports and other public venues.<br />I became interested in  John's philosophy on dowsing after reading an article he wrote about  dowsing for land-mines to safeguard children of war-torn villages.  I had  also heard of the Army &amp; Marines using dowsing in Viet Nam to locate  hidden weapons caches and underground complexes. John is a professional  engineer and has also practiced dowsing in the British military. As a Viet  Nam vet and Electrical Engineer myself, it was instant credibility for me.   <br />John's priority, based on his background, is what works and what doesn't  work.  Dowsing is not a game.  Land-mines play for keeps.  John does not  push his beliefs on anyone, but at the same time makes it clear that there  are Higher Powers at work in dowsing and without their cooperation, one  cannot expect to achieve significant results.<br />There are three basic  elements necessary for productive dowsing: Proper Intention, Proper  Preparation and Proper Focus.   The fact is that in order for dowsing to  work at all, there must be &quot;Something&quot; that knows the answer.  We  must learn to communicate with this Higher Power, understanding that any  failure to secure a correct answer is related to our incapacity to sustain  one of the three required elements (which includes asking the right  question!).<br />Dowsing is a gift that is intended to help others. It also  requires a lot of practice. &quot;Dowsing for fun&quot; very quickly  degrades into random results and frustration. John shows how to overcome  the seeming Catch-22 situation of &quot;how can I practice a lot of  &quot;trivial&quot; dowsing in order to get good enough to help  anybody?&quot;.  The answer lies in your intention to help others in future  situations.<br />John tends to suggest that all dowsing sessions should take  on a fairly formal setting, stating one's intentions and asking for proper  permissions.  I have found that becoming more formal in my sessions has had  a major impact on my growth as a dowser.  It helps to maintain the proper  mental and emotional atmosphere conducive to getting results.<br />John's work  is obviously a labor of love.	2000-08-02
US	52006922	RO3Z69OZFX92R	0931580587	4895098	Ain't Nobody's Business If You Do: The Absurdity of Consensual Crimes in a Free Society	Books	5	36	39	N	N	I Mostly Disagree, But - SPLENDID JOB!	This is one of the most informative and engaging books I have read in a long, long time.  Every page has a quote, some of which are exceptionally enlightening besides being very entertaining.  For instance George  Washington in 1796: &quot;The government of the United States is not, in  any sense, founded on the Christian religion.&quot;  Hello Jerry Falwell  and Pat Robertson!<br />Personally I take a bit more pause over some issues,  examples like the harmlessness of random jay-walking and not wearing  motorcycle helmets. I think that many of these laws save lives, much of the  public being too stupid to look out for themselves.  But that's the whole  point of this book and what makes it such a kick in the pants! Push come to  shove, I'd probably take McWilliams' side any day.  Be prepared to get  mighty angry when the hypocrisy of many of our laws is pointed out.<br />Oh,  by the way - at nearly 700 pages, the book's dirt cheap.	2000-07-31
US	52006922	R2KWH09STENROG	1559948558	623351210	How to Want what You Have	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	An Ancient Idea - More Relevant Than Ever	The idea that desire lies at the heart of all human suffering is certainly not a new concept, being one of the fundamental tenets of Buddhist teaching.  So kudos for anyone in this day and age of SUVs and cosmetic  surgery who would be a voice in the wilderness for such a wise old  idea.<br />Supported by the three-legged stool of Compassion, Attention and  Gratitude, we have hope of wiggling out from under our insatiable desires  and for once being happy and at peace.  It's a little difficult to get some  of these concepts across on tape at any reasonable depth of understanding  and I several times had the urge to grab pen and paper at the start of one  of the various enumerations.  This is one case where the audio medium may  fall short of the written word, but I found listening to the tape a second  time filled in the gaps pretty well.  Besides, it's hard to drive and  read.<br />I think someone interested in this subject will find several other  works very worthwile reading.  The first is &quot;The Miracle Of  Mindfulness&quot; by Thich Nhat Hanh, which addresses  &quot;Attentiveness&quot; as described on the tape - the art of living in  the present moment.  This concept is so important that &quot;A Course In  Miracles&quot; devotes a great deal of attention to it, referred to as the  &quot;Holy Instant&quot;.  It's hard to be unhappy when the regrets of the  past and anxiety about the future are both &quot;out of the  picture&quot;!<br />A second worthwhile investment might be  &quot;Lovingkindness - The Revolutionary Art Of Happiness&quot; by Sharon  Salzberg.  The word &quot;Lovingkindness&quot; is perhaps more appropriate  than &quot;Unconditional Love&quot; or &quot;Charity&quot; or  &quot;Compassion&quot;. In our society, we're not schooled in these  concepts and our language reflects this. Lovingkindness can be a great  source of happiness.<br />Gratitude is simply Thankfulness - something we  frequently forget makes us happy as well!<br />Despite the rather amusing  connotations that ancient spiritual concepts have been &quot;verified&quot;  by the modern sciences, this is intrinsically powerful material.	2000-07-30
US	52006922	R2RWTJB9S5G36L	0944993516	705634002	The Education of Little Tree	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Peter Coyote's Presentation Is Wonderful	I noticed that my review below was automatically carried over to the audio presentation from the book.  The two are really quite different in some ways.  Peter Coyote adds authenticity to the presentation, making it a real  joy for the commute. His sonorous voice has a friendly charm and was a  great choice for the part.<br />Unfortunately cutting any portion of the story  is a great loss and since the audio presentation is abridged there is a bit  of choppiness.  This however pales in comparison with the positive aspects  of the work.  In many ways I enjoyed the tape more than the book.	2000-07-03
US	52006922	R3AMHA3T3LCNLG	0915811626	613589446	Creating Miracles: Understanding the Experience of Divine Intervention	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Roll Your Own Miracles (?)	Quick - what's the first thing that comes to mind when you find yourself in a bind?  The frantic search for someone to blame?  The feeling of victimhood?  The lengths to which we are willing to stretch reason in order  to find someone else responsible for our woes is nearly comical.<br />This  book is as close as you can get to a &quot;how-to&quot; book for miracles.   The exalted &quot;A Course In Miracles&quot; is quoted freely in this work,  establishing its secure underpinnings in the metaphysics of higher  realities (a.k.a. miracles).  The key: miracles are a CHOICE.<br />If life is  a series of lessons, choosing the &quot;path less taken&quot; often means a  conscious decision to see a situation in a completely different light. This  might entail compassion for the oppressor, awareness of the &quot;big  picture&quot; and the wellbeing of all concerned, or simply a complete  surrender to a loving Higher Power. (Interestingly, completely &quot;losing  it&quot; later on seems to be OK). When this loving attitude is chosen as  the response to a crisis, the lesson may be &quot;called off&quot; as it  were.  You got it.  You passed the test.  No need to go further.<br />This is  a wonderful book - one that should be read by everybody as an antidote for  the &quot;eye for an eye&quot; mentality of the world-mind.	2000-07-01
US	52006922	RSIWZIN2XXGS4	0963209167	39674934	On the Track of Water's Secret: From Viktor Schauberger to Johann Grander	Books	1	8	8	N	Y	CAVEAT EMPTOR!	...<br />Rarely is there a necessity for this, but unfortunately this book is nothing more than extensive marketing hype for very expensive and dubious products that are made available for sale at the end of the book. This work steps far beyond the boundaries of reputable journalism and in my opinion should not be allowed to grace the shelves of bona fide booksellers. <br />There is some interesting background information presented about Viktor Schauberger, a pioneer in water research, but this too is unfortunately used to further the marketing ploy.	2000-07-01
US	52006922	R1BQWINI3VTICK	0892814233	858239444	The Divining Heart: Dowsing and Spiritual Unfoldment	Books	5	62	65	N	Y	A Second Step For Dowsers	This is not a &quot;how-to&quot; book on dowsing, but more a spiritual guide directed towards dowsers.  It may, however, have fairly practical value to many dowsers who are struggling to master this etheric art.  This  is because beyond the Zen &quot;Beginner's Mind&quot; or colloquial  &quot;Beginner's Luck&quot; stage when everything seems to work, comes a  more difficult phase when deep struggles emerge between the logical and  intuitive facets of the mind.<br />At this point one must honestly review  one's motivations and goals, and decide to &quot;put one's heart into  it&quot; or not.  Without this honesty, commitment, humility and  dedication, I don't think the necessary connections can be established and  maintained in one's psyche to be a good dowser.  This is because with  dowsing it's an all-or-nothing issue - once confronted with the true nature  of dowsing, one can no longer claim ignorance to its underlying miraculous  nature.  At that point one must decide whether to surrender one's ego, or  simply give up the game.<br />There are many ideas presented in this book in a  rather friendly and rambling style, like an after-dinner conversation in  the living room.  But any book that recommends starting the day with the  prayer &quot;Allow me to be of service today&quot; shows its true colors.	2000-07-01
US	52006922	R1PN1FM8RC2RGN	1862041997	231786408	Rediscovering Real Medicine: The New Horizons of Homeopathy	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Enlightening... And a Bit Disturbing!	...Enlightening because of references to Homeopathy's awesome healing power, its relationships with Vital Energy and Traditional Chinese Medicine, its colorful and tumultuous history, and the various intriguing  methods by which its remedies are concocted.<br />...Disturbing because of  revelations of extensive physical, psychological, social and genetic damage  being done by vaccinations and other accepted medical practices, and the  extensive multi-discipinary training, intuitional abilities, insight,  patience and skill required by a doctor to practice Real Medicine!  I  wonder if Dr. Elmiger realizes the element of despair that may arise in his  readers upon realization that there are perhaps only a handful of doctors  in the world capable of following this method!  Or that with age one's  medical history becomes so convoluted that even the best practitioner may  take pause when faced with such a Gordian Knot, the exact chronological  sequencing of therapy based on life's shocks being a critical element in  the treatment's success.<br />The reviews that follow are excellent and I will  not belabor their points.  However, at the end of the book one is clearly  instructed that Homeopathy is only one leg of a three-legged stool -  Osteopathy and nutrition being the other important elements of health  care.<br />This book is a very important step in the right direction for  Medicine.  Despite seemingly directed towards the medical profession, it  makes fascinating reading even for the lay person (or perhaps not  surprisingly since it was initially intended as a tutorial for Dr.  Elmiger's patients).<br />In print world-wide, I'll bet Dr. Elmiger is a busy  man these days!	2000-06-30
US	52006922	R1867ECP67E1LP	0892811579	344354700	Pendulum Power: A Mystery You Can See, A Power You Can Feel	Books	5	100	101	N	N	Good Beginning Level Introduction To Dowsing	This book is a nicely-balanced presentation, oriented generally towards someone interested in learning how to dowse with the pendulum.  It also has some interesting sections on the history of dowsing and true stories of dowsers in action.If you are going to pursue this endeavor, I think it  is important to realize that practice makes perfect.  The authors suggest  spending one week of practicing several times a day, just watching the  pendulum move various ways strictly under the influence of your will and  desire.  This is extremely important, because it teaches you to relax, let  go and trust your subconscious mind.The second important step is to  understand that there is \\"no order of difficulty in miracles\\", to  paraphrase A Course In Miracles.  It is no more difficult (or easy) to find  a missing child in another state via map-dowsing than it is to successfully  dowse for your car keys.  The apparent difference in difficulty is  artificial and all in one's belief system.  Both events are  \\"miracles\\" in that there is no rational explanation for how you  found either.  So your faith in the connectedness of all things must grow  considerably, or you will simply fizzle out as a dowser.  That's a  significant challenge, but one worth rising to.<br />This book will give you a  good start...	2000-06-16
US	52006922	R3M91AAQIU3U4Y	0553346156	432692783	How to Housebreak Your Dog in Seven Days	Books	5	473	480	N	N	Simple and Successful	This approach worked for our puppy (a Lab) as well.  It's based on a few simple ideas, one of which is the puppy's idea of its &quot;den&quot;, which it will scrupulously avoid soiling.  It's you, the owner, who needs  to understand what constitutes the puppy's notion of its den and use that  to your advantage.  <br />Dogs, like most people, are creatures of habit, so  that can be used too. Set up a watering schedule that will contribute to  success. Also don't try to housebreak a puppy before it's old enough to  have adequate bladder control.  Still, you can make it to that point  without too many accidents.  The book details all this.<br />Finally, remember  Pavlov's dog.  Dogs respond directly - they don't understand abstract  thoughts.  Start by repeating a word like &quot;potty&quot; over and over  quietly while your puppy is relieving herself, then praise her.  This will  associate the word with the feeling of relief.  DON'T USE THE WORD  ABSTRACTLY like asking &quot;do you want to go out and potty?&quot; when  you're in the house!  (You can say &quot;do you want to go outside?&quot;).  After &quot;programming&quot; your puppy about 100 times, she will pee on  command when she hears the word.  This will really pay off later when  you're travelling, etc. The important thing is to understand that dogs take  everything literally and directly and really only understand a few key  words, your tone of voice, and your body language.<br />Try to think like a  dog - it will change your whole view of the world!	2000-06-05
US	52006922	R301AAIRWG7UPY	0671691406	722490273	The Pendulum Kit	Books	5	198	198	N	N	From A Complete Beginner: Good News!	...And this kit is in fact oriented towards the beginner.  I was very pleased with the presentation of background information and exercises and felt the material was very well balanced in terms of explaining the  phenomenon of dowsing.  I had tried dowsing a bit on my own without much  consistent result.  This book is like having an expert and patient teacher  at hand to assist you.<br />The natural inclination is to dive in over our  heads and then get frustrated.  The exercises are set up to build  confidence and understanding. The small pendulum that comes with the book  is very responsive and nicely balanced.<br />As I was following along the  instructions for the first exercises, the pendulum started moving in  certain distinct patterns on its own.  I then realized it was already  responding to the exercise questions before I read them!  When things like  this happen you begin to understand that the subconscious mind is real and  not just an abstract concept.  It has certain qualities, like the  propensity to interpret everything very literally.  There is a story of a  dowsing demonstration in which the device pointed into the audience instead  of toward North as requested.  It turns out it was pointing to a guy named  North!<br />You must be very accurate when framing your questions. But this is  good because it involves your logical mind (which might just sabotage your  efforts if it feels left out). I also found that after practicing with the  pendulum, I was able to draw with increased facility.  This is  understandable considering the encouraged left/right brain communication  that is a part of dowsing.  It should then theoretically enhance your  creativity in general.<br />There is nothing like watching the pendulum pick  out coins of like dates, or point in the direction of a lost object, to  make your heart go pitter-pat.  Dowsing is actually a form of active  meditation and kinesiological muscle-testing, Therapeutic Touch and many  other techniques are actually forms of dowsing.  They all share the common  bond of being worthwhile endeavors for gaining self-knowledge.re actually forms of dowsing.  They all share the common  bond of being worthwhile endeavors for gaining self-knowledge.	2000-05-30
US	52006922	RHQYD5YY8F852	0446358479	9234681	Your Body Doesn't Lie: Unlock the Power of Your Natural Energy!	Books	5	196	202	N	Y	An Important Work By An Early Leader In Kinesiology	From George Goodheart's pioneering work in the 1970's has evolved Applied, Clinical and Behavioral Kinesiology.  The author of this book was a leader in the field of Behavioral Kinesiology (which was also the original title,  published in 1979).<br />This book is important because Dr. Diamond's work  has subsequently evolved into other areas of research and has frequently  been referenced in later significant works like &quot;Power vs Force&quot;  by David Hawkins.<br />I would recommend this book as required reading to  anyone interested in the field of kinesiology, its origins and  applications.  There have been recent books written that appear to be more  comprehensive in the applications of kinesiology, but these are frequently  over-reaching and innacurate in their attempts to be everything to  everybody.<br />Perhaps the most valuable aspect of this book is the clear  direction given on how to properly perform the technique of muscle testing.	2000-05-29
US	52006922	R21YK1VSRY640Z	0609802240	455366142	Why People Don't Heal and How They Can	Books	5	93	104	N	N	Medicine Doesn't Always Taste Good	At first I was surprised by the amount of vitriol that this book elicited from some readers.  Then I realized, of course - this information is going to be received as a breath of fresh air for those who are really willing to  change themselves for the better, and with great angst by others.<br />That is  exactly what this book is all about!  <br />Caroline suggests we look  carefully at our words and behavior and note the way we bond over our  wounds.  We speak &quot;woundology&quot;.  Wounds give us power over other  people and a way to manipulate society.  Healing is a very unpopular notion  in this world.<br />Of course this can be regarded as  &quot;mean-spirited&quot;, but how in the world can we progress without  facing the truth once in a while?  There is absolutely nothing new in this  material - it is just been presented in the context of modern thought - but  if one reads any sacred text carefully the echoes of these ideas will be  evident.<br />Caroline Myss is iconoclastic and funny, but she gets the point  across.  I recommend some of her audio tapes to really hear her in her  element - with a live audience.  Sure she &quot;talks a lot&quot; and  especially as a man this sometimes drives me up the wall.  But I think her  message is one of gently attempting to point out our foibles for our own  good.	2000-05-26
US	52006922	RXE5OJPCTIXB4	0609800140	371567930	Anatomy of the Spirit: The Seven Stages of Power and Healing	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Energy First!	Have you ever walked into a house and gotten a funny feeling that something was wrong?  Some kind of &quot;bad energy&quot; left over from an argument or perhaps someone had died?  Ever get a &quot;wierd vibe&quot;  from someone? Caroline Myss's continuing exploration into the human energy  fields is a wonderful validation of what many have already experienced but  were never able to clearly conceptualize.  It's a relief when someone can  do that for us (Hey, I'm not crazy!).  Once over this stalling point, we  can move forward and explore these areas of human experience more  constructively.<br />Caroline's main thrust in this book is the energy flow  through the body and how it relates to physical health, and a detailed  description of the quality of the energy at each chakra level.  She uses  the Jewish Tree Of Life and the Christian sacraments as symbolic  representations of the qualities at these vibrational levels. Caroline  describes in general how the energy flow at the various chakra levels can  be disrupted and the subsequent consequences to health in that part of the  body. <br />Anyone who is interested in the healing arts, especially the  fields of energy medicine, will find this book invaluable.	2000-05-26
US	52006922	RADUE1RRI8S2H	0375705090	370416870	Zen in the Art of Archery	Books	5	77	85	N	N	This book is like a gentle teacher.	If one desires to pursue the path of enlightenment under Zen, one must select as a vehicle one of the Zen arts - archery, swordsmanship, brush-and-ink, the tea ceremony or flower arranging.  Eugen (pronounced  OI-gen) chronicles his struggle to overcome his &quot;much too willful  will&quot; and master the bow.  This interesting story is very moving,  educational and inspiring, while never becoming heavy as it easily could  have under less skillful authorship.  <br />The ultimate challenge Eugen faces  ends up being the smooth release of the bowstring and arrow without  conscious intent, &quot;like the ripe fruit falls from the tree&quot;,  &quot;like a baby's hand releases one object to grasp another&quot;,  &quot;like the bamboo leaf slowly bends under the weight of the snow, then  releases the clump of snow without thought&quot;. Eugen, during a summer  sabbatical, develops a &quot;technique&quot; that he believes will solve  this problem and nearly gets himself thrown out of the program for  &quot;offending the Spirit of Zen&quot;.  There is also an interesting  account of an after-hours meeting where his teacher gives an amazing  demonstration of quiet mastery in order to raise Eugen's morale and level  of understanding.<br />There is much that this little book has to offer and  its message will live in your heart for a long time.	2000-05-25
US	52006922	R329RS9HZR9U4T	0609803239	392958456	The Creation of Health: The Emotional, Psychological, and Spiritual Responses That Promote Health and Healing	Books	5	26	32	N	N	The Book That Started It All	This is the most important of all the subsequent books by Norm Shealy and Caroline Myss.  This is frequently the case when a new paradigm bursts into the &quot;world mind&quot; and is presented fresh, by its excited and  zealous prophets. Ground-breaking books like Fritjof Capra's &quot;The Tao  Of Physics&quot;, Rupert Sheldrake's &quot;A New Science Of Life&quot;, Ken  Wilber's &quot;The Spectrum Of Consciousness&quot; are often the  educational thesis or experimental paper that gets eschewed by all but the  most far-sighted publishers.  Once the authors or their theories become  more mainstream, the energy changes and the process of refining begins.   The wonderful thing about this book is its synergy of raw courage and  enthusiasm, as these two now-famous personalities first emerge into public  consciousness.	2000-05-25
US	52006922	R2QZ8CBSBOEVRI	1556905777	288426871	Zen in the Art of Archery/2 Audio Cassettes	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This will make your commute tolerable!	If one desires to pursue the path of enlightenment under Zen, one must select as a vehicle one of the Zen arts - archery, swordsmanship, brush-and-ink, the tea ceremony or flower arranging. Eugen (pronounced  OI-gen) chronicles his struggle to overcome his &quot;much too willful  will&quot; and master the bow. This interesting story is very moving,  educational and inspiring, while never becoming heavy as it easily could  have under less skillful authorship. <br />The ultimate challenge Eugen faces  ends up being the smooth release of the bowstring and arrow without  conscious intent, &quot;like the ripe fruit falls from the tree&quot;,  &quot;like a baby's hand releases one object to grasp another&quot;,  &quot;like the bamboo leaf slowly bends under the weight of the snow, then  releases the clump of snow without thought&quot;. Eugen, during a summer  sabbatical, develops a &quot;technique&quot; that he believes will solve  this problem and nearly gets himself thrown out of the program for  &quot;offending the Spirit of Zen&quot;. There is also an interesting  account of an after-hours meeting where his teacher gives an amazing  demonstration of quiet mastery in order to raise Eugen's morale and level  of understanding.<br />I had read the book several times and decided to get  the tapes to listen to while driving.  Ralph Blum's sonorous voice is  perfect for the reading and I enjoyed listening to the book as much or more  than reading it. There is much that this little book has to offer and its  message will live in your heart for a long time.	2000-05-25
US	52006922	R706Q88DUF5R4	0826308791	705634002	The Education of Little Tree	Books	5	4	5	N	N	One of the most memorable stories I have ever come across.	This is a bittersweet tale told in a simple voice with great poignancy and power.  Despite every opportunity, Forrest Carter never portrays himself or any of the many characters he encounters as victims.  He weaves a nearly  dream-like account of life close to the Earth, of great respect and  admiration for all things of nature, and the fine line between the  &quot;thinking&quot; world of white men and the &quot;knowing&quot; world  of the red man.  This book will make you giggle and make you cry, but  mostly it is a powerful cathartic medicine for those afflicted with the  maladies of the modern world.	2000-05-25
US	52006922	R1LV3EUN5VECVL	0684837994	862019174	The Fifth Miracle: The Search for the Origin and Meaning of Life	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I just wanted to know how DNA works!	With the importance of understanding the ramifications of genetic engineering in food, medicine and who knows what else, knowledge is power and ignorance is anything but bliss.  Recently the headlines blared  &quot;U.S. Government Rules Food Labelling Unnecessary&quot;.  This is a  very scary proposition, being told that you don't have the right to know  what you're eating.  The powerful special interests can get away with this  because we are ill-informed on the subject.<br />I read &quot;The Fifth  Miracle&quot; hoping to understand a little better how the mechanics of  life work at the most elementary level.  Of course the author spins a much  grander tale, but I was delighted by his descriptions of the various  components of DNA weaving the raw materials of life like tiny computers  reading software programs.  I would say I got a better understanding of  genetics from this book than I could have from any dry college text.   <br />Ostensibly we have here an near-fictional account of the origins of  life, but this book contains a huge amount of useful information,  invaluable for understanding today's scientific trends and making sense of  news from the bio-genetics front. Perhaps one of the highest purposes this  book could serve would be to help us make more informed decisions about our  environment and therefore the future quality of our lives.	2000-05-25
US	52006922	R1GVHLKHGK3UFU	1559270616	370416870	Zen in the Art of Archery	Books	5	14	17	N	N	This will make your commute tolerable!	If one desires to pursue the path of enlightenment under Zen, one must select as a vehicle one of the Zen arts - archery, swordsmanship, brush-and-ink, the tea ceremony or flower arranging. Eugen (pronounced  OI-gen) chronicles his struggle to overcome his &quot;much too willful  will&quot; and master the bow. This interesting story is very moving,  educational and inspiring, while never becoming heavy as it easily could  have under less skillful authorship. <br />The ultimate challenge Eugen faces  ends up being the smooth release of the bowstring and arrow without  conscious intent, &quot;like the ripe fruit falls from the tree&quot;,  &quot;like a baby's hand releases one object to grasp another&quot;,  &quot;like the bamboo leaf slowly bends under the weight of the snow, then  releases the clump of snow without thought&quot;. Eugen, during a summer  sabbatical, develops a &quot;technique&quot; that he believes will solve  this problem and nearly gets himself thrown out of the program for  &quot;offending the Spirit of Zen&quot;. There is also an interesting  account of an after-hours meeting where his teacher gives an amazing  demonstration of quiet mastery in order to raise Eugen's morale and level  of understanding.<br />I had read the book several times and decided to get  the tape to listen to while driving.  Ralph Blum's sonorous voice is  perfect for the reading and I enjoyed listening to the book as much or more  than reading it. There is much that this presentation has to offer and its  message will live in your heart for a long time.	2000-05-25
US	52006922	R2LDIJS9EBH4SD	1564553248	534838264	Contemplative Prayer	Books	5	82	89	N	Y	For Anyone Seeking Peace and True Rest	Contemplative Prayer is the traditional Christian method of meditation and yet most Christians have never heard of it!  It has been actively repressed at times in history and now is &quot;damned by faint praise&quot; by the  Catholic Church.<br />Meditation in general is looked upon with great  suspicion by most Protestant religions, who feel that it opens one up for  possession.  Thus one of the most valuable tools for salvation - the  ability to place oneself in the Presence of God - is being unwittingly  withheld from the faithful!<br />Fr. Keating is a kind, wise and gentle  teacher.  He explains why people get unhappy with their earthly  circumstances based on programming received prior to their ability to  &quot;defend themselves&quot; mentally.  He then offers a very simple and  straight-forward form of meditation that brings profound peace and deep  rest for the body, mind and spirit.<br />Anyone seeking peace and true rest in  their lives will find this presentation to be a godsend.	2000-05-25
US	52006922	RRAYP1FSW42WX	0964326116	674444563	Power vs. Force: The Hidden Determinants of Human Behavior	Books	5	100	114	N	Y	Ground Breaking Work - A Milestone For Human Consciousness.	The new science of kinesiology ushered in a powerful diagnostic tool called &quot;muscle testing&quot;. (Muscle testing is a simple procedure for testing strong/weak responses, such as that of an outstretched arm, in  response to questioning).  Despite the revolutionary nature of these  discoveries, most people are willing to rationalize that something other  than the &quot;conscious mind&quot; is at play, something whose function it  is to oversee the well-being of the individual and manage the body's myriad  complex subsystems. It could then be extrapolated that this benign  functionality - &quot;subconscious mind&quot;, &quot;field&quot; or  whatever - would be willing to communicate with the &quot;outside  world&quot; when matters regarding the well-being of its charge were  concerned.<br />Dr. Hawkins, however, has taken a quantum leap with the idea  of muscle testing.  Rather than simply regarding the field or subconscious  mind as the governing mechanism of the individual's body, he applied muscle  testing in the context of traditional metaphysical paradigms stating that  all things are connected, that all events, actions, thoughts and emotions  are written into the unlimited Database of Consciousness, and that as  participants in this universe, we all have access to that Database.  Thus  through muscle testing we have the ability to get the answer to any  question we can formulate (except pertaining to the future, which has not  yet been written into the record). The implications of this are staggering.   Did O.J. do it?  Is the government telling the truth about thus-and-such?   We now have the means for direct knowledge.<br />Most authors would be content  to base an entire book solely on these revelations, but surprisingly this  is merely the groundwork laid out by Dr. Hawkins for the rest of the book!   Based on thousands of studies using these methods, striving for 100%  repeatability on the tests, he explains many aspects of human experience  includinga Spectrum of Consciousness.  Based on a logarithmic scale of 1  to 1000, all ideas, emotions, concepts, thoughts, works of art, literature  and science, resonate at some level.  Above the level of 200 these energies  are considered nurturing, positive and &quot;good&quot; (Power). Below 200  are energies that are destructive, negative and &quot;evil&quot; (Force).   <br />Dr. Hawkins explores how &quot;attractor&quot; energies (mathematics  from chaos theory) influence art, science, medicine and sports and examines  the specific mechanisms leading to health and disease.  He examines the  quality of our institutions and discusses the nature of Consciousness and  the path to enlightenment.  All concepts are presented with exceptional  clarity and lucidity, without any sign of pedantry.  Finally, as the title  of the book suggests, one may attain a quantitative understanding of the  difference between Power and Force. (Examine the handling of the Elian  Gonzales case based on these criteria).<br />This book is an absolute must for  anyone searching for a better understanding of &quot;how reality  works&quot;.  And so we thank those who calibrate high on the Scale Of  Consciousness, who lead the rest of us forward, kicking and screaming, on  the path of enlightenment...	2000-05-24
US	52006922	RBERIOYG6AEC0	0671027034	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An Insightful Guide To Human Nature	Ouch!  I wish I had picked up this book about 30 years ago when I first heard about it!  Oh well, better late than never, and I can say that just a little understanding of human nature (and subsequent behavior modification)  yields truly astounding results.  It's like an experiment with all the  world as your laboratory.<br />There is nothing new or startling presented in  this book, but it's the &quot;why&quot; and &quot;how&quot; of it that  makes Dale Carnegie's little gem a masterpiece.  Its longevity alone speaks  for the wisdom it contains.	2000-05-18
US	52006922	R1EAJYM2EOTPKA	0670869759	165779256	A Course in Miracles	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A Great Treasure For Those Who Are Ready	There has been a great deal written about ACIM and it all pales in comparison with the experience of the Course itself. That would include this introduction!<br />ACIM is not for everyone.  As the Course says, many  are called but few choose to respond.  If you're ready, your soul will be  hungry and ACIM will come to you.  Read the Introduction carefully and see  how it resonates with your Spirit.  There should be no doubt if you're  ready.<br />ACIM requires dedication and commitment.  There is so much  information in each paragraph of text that frequently one must stop and  contemplate each sentence in turn!  It is counter-productive to read on  past sections one has not internalized, so patience is a must.<br />There is a  meditation sequence that requires a minimum of one year to complete.  Even  if you are an experienced meditator, you will probably take a quantum leap  in your spiritual awareness and for the first time comprehend the true  nature of meditation.  This meditation is required in order to grasp the  underlying message of the Course and the ability to put oneself instantly  into the Presence of God is emphasized throughout the text.<br />ACIM is a  two-way street.  Along with the peace and confidence that accompanies  learning to see the world through the eyes of Christ comes the awesome  responsibility of becoming a Teacher of God.	2000-05-18
US	52006922	R1S9C5BNZ0DPOS	0071569146	202403129	The Fiberglass Boat Repair Manual	Books	5	83	86	N	Y	Also Valuable When Buying A Used Boat!	Of the many boatbuilding and repair manuals I have seen, I would consider this to be the best reference for fiberglass boat repair. The pictures on the dust-jacket alone indicate that a serious treatise is contained within.  It would appear that no matter how bad it looks, there is no problem beyond  the scope of the competent fiberglass repairman. (Caution - some of the  color photos of repairs-in-progress between pages 118 and 119 are not for  the faint-hearted!)<br />Mr. Vaitses has been at this for a long time and with  experience in the world of wooden boats (all boats have wood in them  somewhere) as well as having been a player in the fiberglass revolution, is  able to offer a well-rounded perspective. His honest, no-nonsense approach  to problem-solving is refreshing. <br />Besides the obvious background info  and how-to descriptions, this book can be an invaluable asset when  examining a used boat. Mr. Vaitses is currently working as a marine  surveyor (a person who inspects and evaluates the condition of boats for  prospective buyers).  All used boats need some kind of work and the  challenge then becomes evaluating the nature and scope of needed repairs,  e.g. distinguishing structural and safety issues from cosmetics and  determining whether one can affect the repairs oneself vs. how much it will  cost to have someone else do it.<br />Studying this book allows one to  communicate more effectively with the surveyor and to describe problems  more accurately to repair facilities in order to estimate projected costs.  We recently completed the evaluation and purchase of a 1974 36-foot  fiberglass cruiser.  I can honestly say that the knowledge and confidence I  gained from this book made the entire process a good bit less nerve-racking  than it might have been!	2000-02-05
US	52006922	RF5MWOLRYWRWJ	0070328773	995836054	When a Loose Cannon Flogs a Dead Horse There's the Devil to Pay: Seafaring Words in Everyday Speech	Books	5	30	32	N	N	A great little book for &quot;the head&quot;.	It is intriguing to learn how many familiar expressions in our everyday speech have their origins at sea (having &quot;washed ashore&quot; as the author puts it).  Many of these sayings started out as fairly technical  naval terms.<br />For instance the &quot;bitter end&quot; is the tail-end of  an anchor line that may disappear overboard if not properly secured (along  with a sailor's reputation). To &quot;flake out&quot; means to lay chain  out on deck so it may be inspected for weak links. <br />And I won't &quot;let  the cat out of the bag&quot; (another entry) in regards to the ever-popular  &quot;cold enough to freeze the balls off a brass monkey&quot;, except to  say that it's NOTHING CLOSE to what you think it means! As always the  author's voice is clear and refreshing as she recounts coaxing the  explanation out of an old salt. (I can't help thinking that it is the  woman's perspective on the subject that helps make this little book so  delightful.)<br />The book is divided up into &quot;Metaphors and  Colloquialisms&quot;, &quot;Wind, Waves and Weather&quot;, and &quot;Yarns  of the Sea, Legends, Myths and Superstitions&quot;. I recommend a  randomized reading approach to best savor the little surprises.	1999-12-17
US	52006922	R22D3W91TEZ6K0	0964603667	719800548	Storm Tactics Handbook: Modern Methods of Heaving-to for Survival in Extreme Conditions	Books	5	105	108	N	N	Alchemy For Rough Seas.	This book is essentially about one thing: how to create the &quot;Von Karmon Vortex Street&quot;.  What the authors have done is taken a scientific approach to storm-survival and have gathered evidence both  ancient and modern to support their thesis.  <br />It turns out that a  sailboat's anatomy - high wind exposure even running bare poles and a deep  keel - can be used to defeat the underwater component of a breaking sea,  rendering it harmless foam.  The key, of course, is knowing how to  stabilize the yacht in relationship to wind and water.<br />Using various sail  configurations and/or anchor chutes and by simple tests like dropping bits  of paper into the water, the boat may be kept within the confines of its  own self-created safe haven.<br />This is not a &quot;best-kept secret&quot;,  but rather something that has been discovered and rediscovered in a fairly  random and haphazard manner over time. Most sailors can't confidently say  why certain storm strategies worked in some cases and others didn't. The  authors have not taken lightly the presentation of this material to the  boating public. We are all indebted to their work and insight.	1999-12-17
US	52006922	RB9BTD59KE6AE	1556432704	101021713	Cancer Salves: A Botanical Approach to Treatment	Books	5	105	106	N	Y	Buy this book while you still can!	When I heard of a woman who had pancreatic cancer and who had been sent home to die, but had managed to save herself with these salves (self-administered under the guidance of a Naturopath), I was incredulous.  I was told she actually had the growths in jars and was always happy to  share her story with others who might benefit.<br />I made a point of meeting  the woman and found her the picture of health, running a vibrant business,  working harder than any of the men under her employ.  She showed me the  jars containing some evil-looking growths.  She showed me an unusual scar  where the cancer had exited her side.  She told me how much it had hurt and  how hard it was to kick the morphine they had her on in the hospital.  And  she told me of other &quot;terminals&quot; who had survived.<br />I got to  know this woman well and I trust her implicitly.  When I got the book  &quot;Cancer Salves&quot; and showed it to her, she was ecstatic.  Somebody  had finally gotten it in print!  How brave!<br />The value of the internet is  that you have access to information that would otherwise be banned.  With  the bad (pornography, etc.) comes the good - voices long silenced by the  heavy hand of institutional authority - facts about effective cancer cures  that have saved many lives.  Search the web for the life history of Royal  Raymond Rife.  Get the video &quot;Hoxsey - The Quack(?) Who Cured  Cancer&quot; (Also renamed &quot;Hoxsey - How Healing Becomes A  Crime&quot;).<br />Make up your own mind, however incredible it all may  sound at first. And get this book while you still can! Many  less-threatening items have been banned by the AMA/FDA.  If one out of  every four people in America will get cancer, this may save you or someone  you love.  Knowledge is power.	1999-12-07
US	52006922	R2GQ5WL7ERGWEJ	0939070073	790696334	Boatbuilding With Plywood	Books	5	72	72	N	N	The Plywood Boatbuilder's Bible	There are many ways to build a boat and boatbuilding books frequently overreach in an attempt to cover them all. Simply providing a survey of materials and techniques, these books are generally not useful as hands-on  building references.<br />&quot;Boatbuilding With Plywood&quot; is a shop  manual for those building boats using the plywood-over-frame approach.  Everything is covered clearly and precisely: lofting, setting up and  aligning the jig, bending wood around frames, bevelling and fairing,  approaches to planking, ways of rolling the hull over, joinery,  fiberglassing and painting, etc.  The B&amp;W photographs are amusingly  dated, but very effective in illustrating the pertinent ideas in the text.   <br />It becomes obvious that the authors (recent revision additions by Ken  Hankinson) really KNOW about building this type of boat.  Any situation  that one encounters in the building process will be found well covered in  the book.<br />And don't think plywood boats are all funky, boxy,  &quot;home-made&quot; looking jobs.  With modern epoxy technology and  techniques, many no-holds-barred projects are choosing to build cold-molded  plywood racing or cruising boats because of their advantages in strength,  weight, safety and maintenance.	1999-12-02
US	52006922	R1HAQYSOMLQO5F	0924486848	182189629	The Long Way	Books	3	42	58	N	N	The Long Way To End A Book	This book starts out with so much poignancy and promise, I guess it just sets your hopes too high.  I'm always amazed how someone can describe weeks and months of sailing alone with any sort of pinache at all, but Moitessier  carries it off very well.  The book also has an excellent set of technical  tips for long-range sailors, which spill over into a highly educational  appendix.<br />I think Moitessier either just got tired of writing  (&quot;Suddenly they are all run over by a truck&quot; ala Richard  Brautigan), or went nuts.  The last couple of chapters are a diatribe of  the evils of modern civilization (all true), but I kept getting the  uncomfortable feeling of someone sitting on your chest and spitting in your  eye.<br />To bolster the &quot;just got tired&quot; argument, the route map  shows several serious knock-downs noted by the words &quot;keel in the  air&quot;, barely glossed over in the text.  To bolster the &quot;went  nuts&quot; argument is a footnote that indicates he instructed his  publisher to &quot;send all royalties due me for the sale of this book to  the Pope&quot;. As if the Institution of the Church wasn't the archetype of  the &quot;Monster&quot; he so railed against.<br />Just skip the last couple  of chapters and enjoy the appendix.	1999-12-02
US	52006922	R1O9A2QELGWIU8	0393047091	479339886	The Troller Yacht Book: A Powerboater's Guide to Crossing Oceans	Books	5	38	40	N	Y	Things the yachting industry never told you.	Having lived with this book and &quot;Buehler's Backyard Boatbuilding&quot; now for several months, and having purchased a set of Mr. Buehler's plans, what strikes me as the most salient aspect of this  whole deal is that most of us are terribly misinformed about boats in  general.  Just because boats are sold for a quarter-to-half a million bucks  and designed to burn $500 in diesel a day, doesn't mean they HAVE to.  I  think Mr. Buehler realized one day that the right kind of power boat is  much more liveable, straight-forward (no tacking) and probably cheaper than  an equivalent sailboat.  His sailboat-design experience provides him the  insight to design powerboats that take a tiny fraction of the power needed  by &quot;trawler yachts&quot;, the big craze these days.  There's an  informal network of builders forming and you're welcome to join us!	1999-11-14
US	52006922	R383J3ZQCT46KB	044306038X	181359395	Traditional Chinese Medicine Cupping Therapy: A Practical Guide, 1e	Books	5	27	31	N	Y	This is a well-thought-out book on a hard-to-find subject.	More people should know about this therapy - maybe this book will help.  My wife's family used it in Vietnam, I experienced it during acupuncture treatment, and it turns out my father's nanny used it in Paris in the 30's!   Mr. Chiraldi's 'History Of Cupping' section reveals its tradition reaching  back to ancient Egypt or beyond and through all cultures.<br />This book is  interesting, clearly written, authoritative, and would make a good  reference for the professional and the well-informed patient.	1999-06-26
