US	52012007	R2R0FZS5OAHVTZ	0195108523	718203882	Orthodox Christians in America (Religion in American Life)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Great intro to the history of Orthodoxy in America	Just finished Erickson's book and was impressed at how well he handled the subject in what was obviously intended for the general audience.  Being a convert to Orthodoxy myself, I was curious how the book would present Orthodoxy to an \\"outside audience.\\" <br /> <br />One must commend Erickson for not sweeping under the rug some of the difficulties Orthodoxy has experienced (and caused for itself) in America.  That makes his pronouncement of its great achievements not seem self-congratulatory, but as honest assessments.   <br /> <br />One thing I was glad to see highlighted was Orthodoxy's \\"missionary mind.\\"  Moreso than any other mission church in the Americas (or the entire world for that matter), Orthodoxy has been responsive to the indigenous culture and has intended for the leadership of the church to become indigenous and local as quickly as possible.  They want to incorporate local culture (as far as is compatible with the Bible and the Church) as much as possible so the Church truly belongs to each culture.  There's no reason to put a church in a \\"cultural straightjacket\\" and try to make one culture submit to another culture when the message is essential, not the language of the service or the sound of the music.  Orthodox missionaries have made many societies literate (the Aleuts for example in this book) as well as others like Russians, Serbs, Bulgarians, etc. <br /> <br />One area I must disagree with the previous reviewer is his assessment that Orthodoxy is just as fractured as Protestantism.  This simply isn't true.  While different \\"brands\\" of Orthodoxy (and I use the word \\"brands\\" very loosely) may have disagreements with each other over certain things, it could be compared to brothers bickering.  They might have some disagreements, but they are still one big family.  As an Orthodox Christian, I can commune in any Orthodox Church, no matter if it is preceded by \\"Greek,\\" \\"Russian,\\" \\"Antiochian,\\" \\"Serbian,\\" \\"Romanian,\\" etc.  We still share one belief, one Faith, one Eucharist.  Our disagreements are largely administrative and cultural, not theological.  This is not true of Protestant churches that have massive doctrinal differences with each other.	2005-04-06
US	52012007	R277DV79L1QL92	0192803689	752628052	Hunted through Central Asia: On the Run from Lenin's Secret Police	Books	3	9	9	N	N	The geology and nature stuff became tedious after a while	I thoroughly enjoyed Nazaroff's tales of being on the run from the Bolsheviks.  He was a man of obvious intellectual talent and his many academic interests put him in contact with a wide variety of people that helped him on his long, difficult journey fleeing from the communists.  There were times I couldn't put down his gripping stories of nearly getting caught or how he was even sealed up in an earthen wall to hide. <br /> <br />One thing other reviews mentioned, but that isn't mentioned at all on the back cover of the book is how much time Nazaroff spends detailing geological features of the areas he's travelling through and about the natural history of these areas.  Some of it is interesting, but at times, it just becomes very tedious and I found it quite boring.  When he's talking about how this stuff could reshape the economic future of areas, I found that interesting, but when he's simply describing finding mineral seams in rocks, I couldn't have cared less. <br /> <br />Overall, a very interesting read, but there are a few boring spots one has to plow through.	2005-01-02
US	52012007	RJ771A5J5R08B	2825413593	546470719	The Resurrection of the Church in Albania: Voices of Orthodox Christians	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Their stories.	For some reason, over the past several years, I've become quite interested in Albania.  This book is a collection of the stories of many Orthodox Christian individuals in Albania (both Albanian nationals and foreigners working there.)  It is fascinating to see how the Orthodox Church in Albania is rising from the ashes of a country destroyed by years of communism and state sanctioned atheism.   <br /> <br />Despite having only recently emerged from decades of brutal repression, these heart-warming stories of everyday Albanians as well as those of bishops and monks are encouraging.  They show that good truly prevails over evil in due time.   <br /> <br />While the content of the book focuses primarily on the spiritual dimension of the Orthodox Church, it also shows how the Orthodox in Albania are striving to improve the general well-being of the country for all people regardless of their religion.  The founding of schools, environmental preservation agencies, public sanitation departments and health clinics shows that the Orthodox Church in Albania doesn't exist merely to serve her own, but to serve all in need and the country in general.  The Church helped tens of thousands of refugees (mainly Muslim Kosovars) during the 1999 air attack of Serbia/Kosovo.  Many international aid agencies said the Church sponsored refugee camps were some of the best run camps they'd ever seen. <br /> <br />After reading this book, I hope to visit Albania someday.  And like the author, I give it five stars.	2004-11-08
US	52012007	R3NB2DPAVTF9L7	026261197X	961787315	The High Price of Materialism	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Absolutely priceless	Great book. Can't say enough good things about it.  Kasser breaks down materialism and the effects it has on society.  It talks about its effects on one's mental and physical health, how it effects relationships and how it ultimately effects the environment.  It is academic, but not so much that someone without a psychology background can't understand it.  I didn't find it dry at all like one reader said it was.  I was entertained and informed (what a rare combination these days.) <br /> <br />In the final chapter he provides things inviduals and communities can do to fight back against the rampant materialism we're constantly assaulted with and how fighting it will help improve our lives, the lives of the ones we love and the world in general.  Make the author happy and check the book out from a library or borrow a copy from a friend.	2004-10-13
US	52012007	R11P89S7JPAC7Q	0881412635	228086431	Speaking The Truth In Love: Education, Mission, And Witness In Contemporary Orthodoxy	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Good food for thought.	I agree with the assessment of Fr. Chad Hatfield from the back of the book: \\"You may not agree with all that you find in these pages, but you will respect the voice of the father, who in love is offering you a challenge to grow.\\" <br /> <br />There are topics where I think the arguments presented only take into account part of the opposing viewpoint and that he's a little too quick to back some sides of the debate and doesn't give ear to the other side, but overall, it's an enjoyable and challenging read.   <br /> <br />I'm of the opinion that Fr. Hopko is truly speaking out of love, and that he challenges our viewpoints on things and increases the opportunity for dialogue with ourselves as well as others.  I found much of the book to be quite inspiring and very well written.	2004-09-30
US	52012007	R34LBIC3LZHQKD	0195218868	557252908	Shinto: Origins, Rituals, Festivals, Spirits, Sacred Places	Books	4	10	12	N	N	good intro to the basics	This tiny book (100 pages in length and of small dimensions) explores the basics of the origins, rituals, festivals, spirits, sacred places, conception of sacred time, sacred texts and the afterlife as pertains to Shinto.    Also interesting is the author's discussion of how Shinto fits into the greater framework of Japanese society and how it is often practiced right alongside Buddhism with no feeling of contradiction.  He says many Japanese often have Shinto weddings but Buddhist funerals.    The book has some beautiful photographs as well as some plates of works of art.  This is the simplest of introductions, nothing in depth, no deep theology.  I was suprised how much of it I already knew (and I've never read anything on Shinto.)  I guess I just picked it up from talking to people and from literature.  It did provide a lot of info I didn't know though and its piqued my interest enough to want to read more about Japan's indigenous religion.	2004-08-31
US	52012007	R310VWIODWONAL	0679738010	71275954	Shah of Shahs	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Wow...journalists can write!	This is the first of Kapucinski's books that I've read and it takes a little while to get used to his style, but once you've settled in, it is quite entertaining. The book is historical, but written by a journalist, so you expect the style to fall somewhere between that of an historian and a journalist.  Suprisingly &lt;i&gt;Shah of Shahs&lt;/i&gt; reads more like a novel.<br />The book is divided into three sections: One which introduces the unrest in Iran in the 1970s, another of descriptions of photographs and recollections from notes and interviews, and lastly section called the &quot;The Dead Flame&quot; that hints at what is coming the wake of revolution.  It poignantly shows through the author's own experience (Iran's revolution was the 27th that he'd witnessed) that things were no different there than they were in a multitude of Latin American and African countries.<br />Kapuscinski's style is seductive and addictive.  I know I will be reading more of his work in the future.	2004-03-15
US	52012007	R1OI814CII8I7Y	0300093535	467096056	Mount Athos: Renewal in Paradise	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Next best thing to going!	This is a history not only of the Holy Mountain Athos, but also of the monks that inhabited it and those that dwell there to this very day.  Speake has done a wonderfl job covering the world's influence on Athos as well as Athos' influence on the world.<br />It is incredibly refreshing to see a book about a monastic community published by a secular university press (Yale University) be free of the condescension and skepticism that one would expect to find.  As a matter of fact, there's a general tone of reverence for the monks' traditions.  It is, however, fair and balanced in the fact that he hasn't glossed over the rough patches of Athonite history.<br />Speake has produced a work of scholarship that is accessible to the academic and the average joe as well as to Orthodox and non-Orthodox. That is no small accomplishment.<br />Many people outside of Eastern Europe and the Middle East are embracing Orthodoxy today.  This is happening in Asia, Africa, Western Europe, Oceania and the Americas.  An intelligent, well written and accessible history (both political and spiritual) of Mount Athos in English is essential and Speake has provided us with what will surely be the standard for years to come.  Athos is the center of world Orthodox monasticism and could be called &quot;The Conscience of Orthodoxy.&quot;  This book is essential for those wishing to understand Orthodoxy and particularly Orthodox monasticism.	2004-03-15
US	52012007	R3M6DFJ4LEJ5MY	0881410683	217070954	Vision of Unity	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Unite America!	&quot;Vision of Unity&quot; is a collection of editorials originally appearing the &quot;The Orthodox Church&quot;, the monthly publication of the Orthodox Church in America.  These editorials appeared over the course of Meyendorff's 20 years as editor of the publication.<br />This collection addresses the issues of Orthodox unity (but specifically the USA), particulary the fact to this day, multiple jurisdictions exist side by side, an uncanonical abnormality unique to the 20th century.<br />At one point in American Orthodox history, this was not the situation. Bishops of various ethnic backgrounds like St. Tikhon and St. Raphael worked together to ensure the unity of all in America...something that existed in their time, but not in ours.<br />Meyendorff is calling for a return to that &quot;vision of unity&quot; and the evidence for this return is hard to ignore.  Eventhough most of these articles are 20-40 years old, most of them are still quite relevant to our current situation.<br />Meyendorff repeatedly argues that one unified American church will not only help Orthodoxy in America, but will strengthen the &quot;mother churches&quot; all over the world that currently hold &quot;satellite parishes&quot; in the America.  It must be pointed out that the Orthodox in America have a unity of faith, but not an administrative unity (which is still quite important.)  The ideas of &quot;strength in diversity&quot; and &quot;unity in diversity&quot; appear in Orthodox writing decades before they appeared in the ranting of the politically correct pundits of our times. The use of those phrases by the Church is undoubtedly purer though.	2004-03-15
US	52012007	RZNC4SEUPIJI3	0679752684	529820051	The Sound of Waves	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Amazed that Mishima wrote this book	A subtle and masterfully told tale about two youths discovering love on a rural Japanese island.  This book is very different from the other 5 or 6 Mishima novels I've read, but it is still beautifully constructed and skillfully rendered.<br />The book explores themes of innocence, loyalty, fidelity to tradition and the transition from adolescence to adulthood.  Despite the lack of &quot;action&quot; in the book, the story is still riveting because of the chasm between rumor and truth that the protagonists must cross.<br />Mishima definately adds a unique twist at the end that is sure to irritate some and I was a bit perplexed about it myself for a while.  Then I remembered this is a Mishima novel and we certainly wouldn't expect anything less from a man capable of such grave seriousness, outlandish specatcles and biting humor.	2004-02-19
US	52012007	RG4VW2PJMZXPX	074320395X	785819131	The Body Artist: A Novel	Books	1	5	10	N	N	unbelievable......just how bad this is	I can honestly say this is one of the worst books I've ever read.  It is poorly written, excruciatingly boring and proof-positive that a big name can get anything published.  The only redeeming feature of this book is that it is a mere 124 pages in length.<br />The jacket description isn't even close to accurate unless by &quot;spare and seductive&quot; they meant spare on entertainment and that it seduces you to sleep.<br />I'm going to give some of DeLillo's other work a chance because of the rave reviews I've read.  This however, is not the place to start investigating his work.	2004-02-19
US	52012007	R1V9CIGMB5F8DW	1859843662	292899299	To Kill a Nation: The Attack on Yugoslavia	Books	3	19	28	N	N	a mixed bag	Upon completion of reading this book, I was left with an odd mixture of skepticism and respect for the work.  Skepticism in that Parenti often cites questionable sources such as a Geocities-hosted website, unpublished reports and email conversations with observers.  I was impressed however with the important questions that Parenti raises: 'How could NATO violate its own charter and act as an aggressor towards a sovereign nation?' and 'Why did the west facilitate the breakup of a sovereign nation?'  <br />The questions he raises and some of his commentary on biased media coverage is a welcome voice questioning the status quo.  While I don't agree with every idea or theory he puts forth, I do respect his willingness to be a voice of dissent and one calling the international community to responsible military action (inasmuch as that is possible.)	2004-01-26
US	52012007	R2U0O9R31GDQY7	0198140983	837765868	The Oxford History of Byzantium	Books	2	38	47	N	N	an extremely disappointing work	While one certainly can't expect the history of Byzantium to be dealt with exhaustively in a 300+ page book, this book falls seriously short of Oxford University Press's typically high standard.  12 contributors' work make up this compilation of articles on the history of Byzantium.  Most of the articles seem rushed and many are tedious to read (this coming from someone fascinated by the subject.)  Additionally, many of the authors write in a condescending tone.  There isn't a footnote or endnote to be found, although there is a chapter by chapter bibliography.  I would seriously consider looking elsewhere for books on the subject, especially considering the price.	2004-01-26
US	52012007	R3SBM518VA0UL4	0822316706	463022686	Children of the Atomic Bomb: An American Physician's Memoir of Nagasaki, Hiroshima, and the Marshall Islands (Asian and Pacific Studies)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An incredibly important work	This is the personal and medical memoir of Dr. James Yamazaki, an American of Japanese descent who went to Japan a few years after the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  Dr. Yamazaki went to study the effects of radiation exposure on the populace, and particularly its effects on children. Dr. Yamazaki spent several years in Nagasaki before returning to the US to continue research on the effects of radiation on children (as well as having a general pediatric practice.)<br />In addition to his pioneering medical work, he also talked to government commissions about nuclear disarmament.  He told them what he saw in Japan in the aftermath of the atomic bomb.  His medical knowledge gave him the authority to speak as a peace activist as well.<br />A highly recommended, highly moving book.  It is short and easy to read and should be essential reading to all human beings about those horrible days in the history of the world.	2004-01-26
US	52012007	R3S1I2O00RU643	0881412368	514424773	I Love, Therefore I Am: The Theological Legacy of Archimandrite Sophrony	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Good, but reading Fr. Sophrony's works is better	An exploration of the theological writings of Archimandrite Sophrony (+1993).  Archimandrite Sophrony was an Eastern Orthodox monk born in Russia that eventually settled in England, but spent many years under the spiritual direction of St. Silouan the Athonite on Mt. Athos in Greece.<br />The author sets out to show that Archimandrite Sophrony's writings fit well inside the 2,000 year old Orthodox Tradition, but also to show that they hold a special place amongst contemporary theological writings in that Fr. Sophrony was a monk that &quot;lived&quot; his theology rather than formulating his theology in the classroom as many laymen do.<br />Much of the work compares and contrasts Fr. Sophrony's works with those of other 20th century theologians including Nicholas Berdyaev, Sergei Bulgakov, Georges Florovsky, Vladimir Lossky and others on topics like monastic obedience, human and divine aspects of the person, mindfulness of death and other topics.<br />It is an interesting work, but I've found much more benefit and pleasure in going directly to Archimandrite Sophrony's works.  As C.S. Lewis once said, &quot;We have much more to gain by reading the classics than we do by reading about the classics.&quot;	2004-01-26
US	52012007	R1YN7W67L1UHHZ	9608677815	186770342	Apostle to Zaire: The Life & Legacy of Blessed Father Cosmas of Grigoriou	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Fr. Cosmas is a true inspiration.	Fr. Cosmas of Grigoriou (on Mt. Athos) was responsible for the massive growth of Orthodox Christianity in Zaire.  His whole life is covered, not just his Zairian mission work, in order to show how his whole life was in preparation of going to Zaire.<br />In addition to spiritual ministry, Fr. Cosmas also ministered to the basic needs of Zaire's people (regardless of their religion.)  He organized farms and schools as well as preaching and translating Orthodox works into Swahili.<br />The book is also full of testimonies from fellow priests and monks as well as laymen and others about Fr. Cosmas' Christ-like love for mankind, and particularly the people of Zaire.  Fr. Cosmas' famous quote about mission work is quite different from that of the missionaries of other Christian confessions.<br />He says, &quot;The missionary's beginning is significant, however it is not the sum of the matter.  The outset might be blessed or might become blessed at the end.  What's important is that the giving be true and total, without holding back, with a disposition to self-sacrifice and self-denial, and with the aim of leaving our bones amongst the natives.&quot;<br />That is the zeal of an apostle , to die amongst those he ministers to whether of persecution or natural causes or whatever the cause.  Fr. Cosmas certainly gave total commitment to Zaire and is an inspiration to us all.	2004-01-26
US	52012007	R2PPSFP40YR5JP	0971413908	185286902	The Blessed Surgeon: The Life of Saint Luke of Simferopol	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A powerhouse of faith and medical intelligence	Saint Luke, Archbishop of Simferopol was a truly amazing man in both the scientific and theological realms.  An incredible man of faith and science he wrote a pioneering surgical book called &quot;On The Surgery of Pyogenic Infections.&quot;  After the communist revolution he was frequently imprisoned and harassed by the communists for his religious belief, but was still admired for his scientific gifts.<br /><br />His life is a testament to excellence in all areas.  Even being imprisoned and exiled by the communists, he still served in their military hospitals during wartime because he believed it was his duty to save lives, even those of his enemies.<br /><br />An amazing, inspiring work by Archdeacon Vasiliy Marushchak that is highly readable and inspiring.  Saint Luke would inspire the man of faith that doubts science and the scientist that doubts faith.  He's even more inspiring to those that believe religion and science can not only coexist, but strengthen each other.	2003-09-22
US	52012007	R1GUZUQ2IJM9C5	0881410586	26596848	The Christian East and the Rise of the Papacy: The Church 1071-1453 A.D (Church History, Vol 4)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Thorough treatment of the subject from Eastern perspective	Aristeides Papadakis' &quot;The Christian East and the Rise of the Papacy&quot; is a fantastic work that deals with the subject of the Roman papacy trying to assert itself and its authority over the whole of Christendom.<br /><br />The book is exhaustive in detail and meticulously notated.  It took me quite some time to read because of the complexities of the subject.  However, it is one of the best church history books I've ever read and an absolutely essential read.  It tells the story of church history from the Eastern perspective and shows why the Eastern Orthodox Church resisted (and continues to resist) the papal claims of universal authority.  <br /><br />The Eastern Orthodox Church has always been conciliar in nature and refutes the &quot;infallibility&quot; claims of the papacy.  He draws on Nicholas Cabasilas' view about the idea of papal infallibity as being a flawed concept.  He asserts that the College of Cardinals can't give to the pope that which they don't possess (infallibility) and draws on the eastern view that a group of bishops ordains a bishop and can only invest that person with authority that they themselves possess.<br /><br />It is an idea that is discussed at length. The book also shows a lot of the internal workings within the Byzantine empire and the Slavic kingdoms and how they dealt individually as well as collectively with the papacy.  A truly amazing book that should be read by anyone wanting to see the view of the papacy from an Eastern perspective.	2003-09-22
US	52012007	R1T588HAVAVWL4	1567511767	960551625	The New Military Humanism: Lessons From Kosovo	Books	4	8	11	N	N	food for thought	Chomsky certainly provides serious food for thought about \\"humanistic\\" wars and what their aims are.  While he certainly doesn't purport to know the answer to what should have been done (and that isn't his aim), he rather provides ample evidence that the course taken in Kosovo is the one that shouldn't have been taken.<br />He raises interesting questions about \\"The New Humanism\\" in light of comparisons to situations in East Timor, Lebanon, Iraq, Grenada, Vietnam, Colombia, Turkey and other places.  Whether or not one agrees with Chomsky's final asessments or not is of course, debatable.  However, one must admire his willingness to criticize the various administrations of the past half century whether Republican or Democrat.  The Kennedy, Nixon, Carter, Reagan, Bush and Clinton administrations are all dealt with sharply in regards to interventionalism or non-interventionalism as is often the case.<br />Additionally, Chomsky provides both the plusses and minuses of both Serb and Albanian Kosovar leadership and military. He's careful not to demonize or beatify either civilian group based upon their leadership (as the media was so quick to do.)<br />My major complaint about the book is Chomsky's tendency to go off on tangents.  It is perhaps unavoidable when trying to put forth such a complex argument, but it does weaken the text a bit because it happens so frequently.  He often takes you half the way around the world to say something that could've been more succinctly put.  Also his repetion of certain catch phrases is a little sensationalistc.<br />Most importantly though, Chomsky accomplishes showing that NATO's bombing of Serbia isn't such a black & white affair...in fact there is a whole world of grey there.  That grey area is more often where the truth is, not in the made for television soundbite polemics of politicians.	2003-07-31
US	52012007	R2XR4ZLBW89FQ	0375725806	718909823	Underground: The Tokyo Gas Attack and the Japanese Psyche	Books	4	5	5	N	N	fascinating	Japanese novelist Haruki Murakami, profoundly disturbed by the 1995 sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway by religious cult Aum Shinrikyu, set out to discover not only why it happened, but what elements of the Japanese psyche &quot;allowed&quot; it to happen.<br />Murakami readily admits not being a social scientist, and the brief analytical sections make that abundantly clear.  Not that he does a bad job in summation of the interviews, it is just that the interviews largely speak for themselves.<br />In addition to roughly 60 interviews with survivors of the gas attack, there are a dozen or so interviews with former or current members of Aum Shinrikyu.  The combination of testimonies by these two groups of people (victims and cult members) makes for incredibly compelling reading.<br />Murakami's esteem as a writer is surely what even allowed this project to get off the ground.  Most people would've probably ignored an average journalist or more likely, the average journalist wouldn't have been able to spend the time and financial resources necessary for a project of this magnitude.<br />These fascinating accounts should interest any student of religion, history, psychology or Japan.	2003-06-26
US	52012007	R215481RB4YFMZ	1860340636	852249068	SIMPLE GT SIKHISM-PB-OP (World Religion Series)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	good introduction	Sewa Singh Kalsi's &quot;Simple Guide to Sikhism&quot; is pretty much just what the title says it is.  At only 120 pages I breezed through it in a few days.  The book covers Sikh history, teachings, traditions, scriptures, worship, festivals, rites of passage, sects and the diaspora.  It is pretty easy reading and no one high school age or over should have any trouble with the text.  The only problem I had with the book was that there is so much Punjabi (the language of most Sikhs) that I couldn't remember what all the words meant and they would be used later without translation and I had to flip to the glossary or flip back to the original spot a decent bit.  Even then, that is largely unavoidable as many religious terms (not just in Sikhism) are difficult to translate and repeatedly translating within the text would have been even more distracting.  This definately isn't the place to go for in depth knowledge, but that's not the point of this book. If you want a general idea of what Sikhism is all about then this is a good place to go.	2002-11-22
US	52012007	R29FSQYGXP2KFQ	0575401915	30631435	Glimpses of Paradise	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a look at the man behind the music	&quot;Glimpses of Paradise&quot; is an honest look at the man John Tavener and his music.  The book seems well researched and everyone in the &quot;Tavener sphere&quot; seems to have welcomed the author in with open arms to help complete this book.  He conducted well over 50 interviews with people from countless countries for the book as well as plundering the archives of Tavener's publisher's etc.  There is a good bit of time spent on Tavener's years as a young prodigy that give insight into his creative influences.  It shows John as an emerging talent given over to the jet-set lifestyle of hanging out with The Beatles, etc.  Also covered are John's rocky early relationships (and marriage.)  The author doesn't attempt to gloss over Tavener's relationship issues but presents an honest, but sympathetic picture.  Of course, much attention is given to John's conversion to Eastern Orthodoxy and his musical and spiritual relationship with Mother Thekla (an Abbess of an Orthodox monastey.)  Of course, much attention is paid to the music, critical reviews of his music, world premieres, etc.  There is also a catalogue of works and a selected discography.<br />For the most part, this is a fascinating book (some of the stuff from his schooling period isn't that riveting.)<br />I would definately recommend this though.  Its a great work about a great composer.	2002-11-22
US	52012007	R3N2PW27H81L1E	0881411787	614929345	Conversations With Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I	Books	4	12	12	N	N	very interesting	Patriarch Bortholomew I of Constantinople is a realist leader of the Orthodox Church (not to suggest that the other leaders are unrealistic.)  He realizes that everything in the world doesn't fit into easy little boxes and that there are tough challenges facing humanity in general (regardless of religion) and he believes the Orthodox Church in some places can work together with other groups to address these challenges and at other times the Orthodox Church should be the leaders in addressing the challenges.<br />He speaks of while one doesn't have to agree with or believe what other religions believe that you must at least realize their right to believe and shelter and protect them from the persecution of others.  He addresses fanaticism (both religious and secular nationalistic), drugs, AIDS, natural preservation, etc.  Patriarch Bartholomew has revealed to the world that Orthodoxy is and has always been a very \\"eco-friendly\\" religion, one that has disdain for overdevelopment and the abuse of the planet and its natural resources.<br />The book covers a very wide array of topics, but shows a balanced, traditional, yet forward looking Orthodox Christian perspective on the challenges specific to the Orthodox Church and to the world in general.	2002-11-22
US	52012007	R1U9YPJIRMIV0X	0452272408	960141799	36 Views of Mount Fuji: On Finding Myself in Japan	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A good quick read	This book can be split into two halves, although I doubt that was the intention of the author.  The first several chapters are about the author's experiences in Japan: the awkwardness of adjusting to a new culture, language barriers, different social philosophies, etc. I found this portion of the book to be fantastic.  It was very funny in places, and always enlightening.  Although everyone's experiences are different, it basically lets you know that living abroad is an adventure, and not a smoothly paved road.<br />While the second half still deals with a lot of these themes, it becomes a lot more philosophical and introspective.  This is where the &quot;Japan-ness&quot; of the book doesn't really matter.  It is about searching out one's place in life and feeling caught in between cultures (it could be anywhere, it just happens to be Japan and the United States in this case.)  It is fascinating to see how other cultures deal with grief, loss, etc.  The stories about Japanese funerals are so different from what one experiences in the west.  This book provides a good, balanced view of living abroad and of living in Japan more specifically.  She does a good job exploring and probing concepts that many others surely struggle with, but don't articulate as well.<br />I breezed right through the book, I read it in two or three sittings and it never became tedious.  The focus shifts in the book, but that's often what happens when one has major events in their life.	2002-09-20
US	52012007	R3DDJRXAP3KX0P	0306810549	95422248	Can't You Hear Me Callin': The Life of Bill Monroe, Father of Bluegrass	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A mixed bag	While this book is meticulously researched, one thing is very apparent right from the start.  The author is massively in awe of his subject. In this particular case, that tends to get in the way of the enjoyment of the book in certain spots.<br />Occasionally he weaves what are probably tall tales into the story just like they are certifiable fact and he often justifies every oddball decision Monroe ever made.  Just tune out some of the author's personal opinions and this is a great read. That being said, the book is very entertaining.  You get a good sense of the struggles Monroe had to go through to attain the success he achieved later in life.  He definately suffered for his art (although that suffering was self-inflicted sometimes.) The author conducted tons of interviews with Bill's former sidemen, his lovers, his family and other important folks.<br />To the author's credit, he reveals a very multi-faceted Bill Monroe.  Everyone has the impression that he was just some country bumpkin with a mandolin and the author does his subject justice by proving that Monroe was so much more.  Monroe was a complex man with great personal as well as professional struggles.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed the book and will end this review with one great story from the book.  Bill Monroe is at the White House to receive his Medal of Arts from the president.  Frank Sinatra is also there and comes up to Bill and compliments him on his music.  Monroe says, &quot;I didn't catch your name son.&quot;  When Sinatra tells him his name, Monroe looks at him and says, &quot;You know, I believe I've heard of you&quot; and walks off.	2002-08-30
US	52012007	R3JZ68D6C2MU08	0810928566	414029610	India and the Mughal Dynasty	Books	5	19	20	N	N	a perfect little intro	This book provided everything I hoped it would: 1) A brief outline of the major events and major figures in Mughal history - 2)Some anecdotal material - 3)maps, pictures, diagrams, etc.<br />It also had some bonuses, like a suggested list for further reading, some translations of texts and letters from people from the time period.  The Babur-nama undoubtedly provided the most entertaining texts.<br />This certainly isn't the be all end all of Mughal history, but that's not what this book is attempting to be.  It provides a concise, brief picture of the dynasty and provides the perfect springboard to go deeper into the subject.   I finished the book in one sitting in a few hours and that was with really looking at the paintings, diagrams and pictures.  All in all, this is a brilliant little intro to a fascinating subject.  It certainly has made me want to read further.	2002-07-25
US	52012007	RJ1B05I963VS0	0966700007	775740236	Monastic Wisdom: The Letters of Elder Joseph the Hesychast	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Grace filled pages	Elder Joseph's letters are awe-inspiring as well as action inspiring.  This collection of letters comes from several sources (they don't all have the same recipient.)  He addresses clergy, monastics, laity (both in Greece and abroad.)  <br />The level of asceticism he practiced he never pushed on anyone else.  He expected much out of people, but made them want to be that way of their own will.  He wasn't interested in having a bunch of puppets.  He was a true spiritual father, not a spiritual dictator.<br />Many of his ideas, sayings, etc will seem &quot;radical&quot; to most English speakers.  After a while though, you realize Elder Joseph isn't the radical one, he is living the God-inspired life, while the rest of us aren't quite hitting the mark.<br />More than anything though, you realize how his love of God has caused him to have extreme love for all of creation...even those that didn't like him.  Elder Joseph was a man of incredible discipline, humility and love.  He was always strict with himself, willing to admit when he was wrong.  He was kind, generous, and loving to others.<br />I can't say enough good things about this book.  The Elder's words just melt you with joy and challenge you to become like Christ.  I also want to comment on the literal book itself.  The hardcover edition is beautifully put together.  Embossed cover, multicolor printing, nice art, quality paper, binding etc.  If taken care of, this book should exist for generations.<br />Buy this book, and challenge yourself.	2002-05-13
US	52012007	RWAKI2MDLBUDR	0714831697	97820173	Alfred Schnittke (20th Century Composers)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	excellent Schnittke book	This book is an excellent biography and overview of the music of Alfred Schnittke.  The casual listener probably wouldn't be interested, but for those that love Schnittke's music this is a goldmine.  It provides plenty of insight in the personal life of Schnittke and the events that helped shape his music.  It details many of his personal political struggles (which would truly make comparisons to Shostakovich even clearer.)<br />There is also, of course, discussions on the music.  No in depth analysis or anything, just good commentary on them.  I don't have a musical education and the book was still quite enjoyable to me.  <br />Another wonderful inclusion is the discography and the catalogue of works.<br />This will probably be the definative account of Schnittke's life (in English anyway.)  One can only hope though that it will be updated as the book was written two years before Scnittke's death.  I highly recommend this excellent book.	2002-03-28
US	52012007	RNTLOHH94PP12	0375709118	373068284	In the Pond	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good, quick, simple, yet complex read	This thin book (only 178 pages) is a superfast read and a good one too.  It is the kind of book that one gets out of it what one puts into it.  <br />If you just want to read it as a story, well its an amusing, engaging piece of fiction.  You can read it politically, considering Ha Jin lived much of his life in the political climate of this book (communist China), or you can read it as a fable of sorts (albeit it a long fable.)  <br />The story centers around and amatuer artist and intellectual named Shao Bin who is working in a state run fertilizer plant (much to his dismay I might add.)  He is clearly more intellectually talented than both his coworkers and superiors.  When he is refused entry into a bigger communal apartment, he publishes a satirical political cartoon and that's where things get interesting.  <br />The story speaks a lot to politics, activism, arts, intellect and many other weighty topics.  It has a fable-esque quality in that the book shows how one little action can cause wide ranging effects (hence the title of the book...&quot;In the Pond.&quot;)  It reminds of the idea that a butterfly flapping its wings on one side of the world causes a hurricane on the other side of the world.<br />Its simple, yet complex, thought provoking, yet enjoyable on its own.  All in all, quite a good work.	2002-03-25
US	52012007	R3A21FLDQZXIRD	0938635514	128685708	Elder Anthony of Optina	Books	5	6	6	N	N	humility, humility, humility	If there is one word, which could sum up Elder Anthony's ministry and example it would be humility.  He willfully submitted to so much during his earthly life.  <br />He submitted to his father's desire that he not become a monastic for a long time.  Even against his own desires, he submitted to his earthly father.<br />For a long time after he became a monk, his own brother was his Elder (Elder Moses of Optina)...and imagine submitting yourself to your brother, even if in a monastic setting (a most difficult task indeed.)<br />Not only that, but he endured untold physical suffering.  He had many and various ailments that he patiently endured as part of God's will.<br />He also took the burden of becoming an abbot, something most monastics do not want to do, since it requires so much time handling earthly matters.<br />All of these things he endured patiently without grumbling to others or about others.  While many would call this weak willed, Elder Anthony showed strength and discernment in realizing that all these things helped him along the path of salvation.<br />An inspiring story of a simple man that loved God with every ounce of his being.<br />In addition to a biography of his life, the book also includes several letters he wrote and some of his teachings.<br />A fantastic book of a true disciple of Christ.	2002-01-15
US	52012007	R3D8M32CHK4O3O	0881412279	971642756	Toward an American Orthodox Church: The Establishment of an Autocephalous Church	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not quite what I was expecting	The title of this book may be a bit misleading to some hoping to read a book about the formation of a single American Orthodox Church.  I thought it would be much more about ways to go about achieving that goal, and to a certain extent, it is.  The thing that I didn't realize was that the book is largely comprised of long quotations from canon law as well as from civic court rulings about church administration.  The last several chapters were quite interesting, but the rest of the book will not be appealing to most readers.<br />This book probably wouldn't even be interesting to most Orthodox Christians since it primarily involves the Orthodox in North America (about 5 million people.)   This is a very scholarly book (and quite an excellent one for what it is), but I just think that this isn't what most people will expect.  It is worthwhile to read if you are interested in canon law, but probably not interesting to you if you are not.  As good as this is about its subject, it is DEFINATELY not the place to start reading about the Orthodox Church.	2002-01-03
US	52012007	R2Y9WMLME42OOM	0914744542	599954552	St. Nectarios of Aegina (Modern orthodox saints)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	not quite what I was looking for	For the most part I really enjoyed this book, but Cavarnos' introduction is way too long in my opinion (about 70 or 80 pages of a 200 page tome.)  Most of that introduction (and a good chunk of another part of the book) is spent cataloguing and describing St. Nectarios' writings.<br />While I know St. Nectarios was an incredibly prolific and profound writer, I'm more interested in the writings themselves than reading ABOUT the writings.  There is some nice stuff at the end that provides excerpts from several of his works, but I felt that overall too much time is devoted to merely talking about the works. There is also a splendid brief little section on some of the miracles performed by St. Nectarios.<br />Needless to say the &quot;three-star&quot; rating is for this book, and not for my thoughts of St. Nectarios, who I hold in highest regard.  I know there are some other works on St. Nectarios out there, but haven't read any of them.  I also recommend the rest of Dr. Cavarnos' &quot;Modern Orthodox Saints&quot; series (of which this is Volume 7.)  The one on St. Cosmas of Aitolos is particularly fantastic!	2001-11-26
US	52012007	R17TCQ0ZDLR7CA	0300083408	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	4	1	1	N	N	better place than any to start	I've had this book since almost the day it came out in the spring of 2000.  Having a degree in Central &amp; South Asian history certainly made we want to pick this book up, especially since it was written by a non-westerner.<br />Needless to say the events of September 11, 2001 made this book rise a lot closer to the top of my stack of books to read.  I think for the most part, one couldn't ask for a more objective book about the subject (the author doesn't make the Taliban out to be the Boy Scouts, but he's as fair as he can be.)  Some of the people that have complained about it are looking at it through a post 9/11/01 gaze which ultimately can't be done.  You can look at the subject that way, but not this particular book since it was written in 1999.<br />All that being said, I think it does an excellent job answering the question &quot;How did the Taliban come to power?&quot;  When things are chaotic and dangerous in a society (as they were in pre-Taliban Afghanistan) it was very easy for these guys to assume power.  When people are fearful of walking outside because of rogues and criminals, they will gladly back whoever can come in and &quot;clean things up.&quot;  What a lot of people don't realize is that the average person will voluntarily give up a lot of freedoms to feel safe.  Sure the Taliban has a hard line Islamic outlook in life, but people would rather take some rules and regulations (even harsh ones) any day when the alternative was not EVER feeling safe.<br />I think in the current state of affairs, that's the type of question this book will best answer.  I don't think most people will be interested in oil pipelines, gas pipelines, etc. (although that's a major reason these current events are unfolding.)  The book also thankfully explains some of Afghanistan's relations to their neighbors (Iran, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, etc) and how these countries viewed the Taliban as they were an emerging force in that part of the world.  It also addresses issues with countries as wide ranging as the USA, the former-USSR, and even Argentina (who had an oil company with a major interest in Afghanistan. They went so far as to make the women in their Argentina offices wear long skirts and shirts to work on the day the Taliban leaders would visit the Argentina offices.)<br />Most people need to keep in mind before opening this book that its publisher is Yale University Press, which means that its a fairly sophisticated book, but nothing the average person couldn't handle.  I'm just saying don't expect a super fast read as there are a LOT of names, places, etc. that will be very unfamiliar to most people and it can be a little daunting to keep up with all of that if you don't have any background on the history, culture, and religion of the region.<br />All in all, I HIGHLY recommend this book for those wanting more info on the Taliban.  It also provides some good background info on the regional political struggles.  Additionally it has some wonderful appendices on things like the Taliban leadership (complete with informative charts), a section on Taliban-issued edicts on the treatment of women, and other interesting documents, and charts.	2001-11-19
US	52012007	RXZVBR51RTMM6	0938635980	981189274	Blessed Euphemia of Serbia	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Modern day saint	This book about Blessed Euphemia of Serbia is an inspiring one to modern day people.  It shows how through the adversities of war, foreign occupation, and whole host of troubles, that sanctity can not only exist, but prevail in times of trial.<br />The first part of the book contained a lot of detail about her having to &quot;do battle with the world&quot; as Abbess.  It makes one have a deeper appreciation of the sanctity she obtained while having to deal with the cumbersome affairs of running a monastery.  <br />More interesting to me was the latter part of the book which encompassed some of her writings and teachings.  This isn't an exact quote, but the sentiment is ultimately the same.  The wise Abbess said: &quot;Always be vigilant with your thoughts, don't make rash decisions because while a mistake can be made in an instant, it is only corrected over a long period of time with great toil and repentance.&quot;  <br />I don't have the book with me to quote it exactly, but her version was much more eloquent, but like I said, the basic sentiment is the same.  I know those words are all too true, perhaps some of the truest ever spoken.<br />At less than 150 pages, this book is a really quick read, and is recommended to all to see that holy people still live in our day and age (she left this world in the 1950s.)	2001-10-05
US	52012007	R3CRYO8SAWLER0	1884729096	947740302	The concept of Christian love: A lecture delivered at Columbia University, together with a Swedish version of it	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent	Like everything else I've read by Dr. Cavarnos, this little book is excellent (the part in English is 38 pages, while the whole book is only 62 pages.)  Its a very easy read on a topic that is so central to Christianity: LOVE.  Its so easy to get bogged down by life in the world and to forget that our basic calling is to love, this book reinforces that by describing love in various ways.<br />After a brief introduction, Dr. Cavarnos discusses the following topics: 1) The General Nature of Love, 2) Kinds of Love, 3) Christian Love and Other Virtues, and 4) Faith &amp; Love.  <br />There are ample quotes from the Holy Scriptures as well as quotes from the likes of great mystics like St. Symeon the New Theologian.  <br />I highly recommend this book.  Its so simple and powerful that it is astounding. This book can still be found through many Orthodox booksellers.	2001-07-19
US	52012007	R1YKAWCHAZY9IW	0060952784	821614147	Spam-Ku: Tranquil Reflections on Luncheon Loaf	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Good for a little laugh...make that a BIG laugh	Being a bit of a poetry fan, and enjoying most things Japanese, and enjoying some downright silly humor will help you really enjoy this little collection compiled by SHAM (Spam Haiku Archive Master) John Cho.  No, most of its not true Haiku, but who cares, its fun...really fun.  Despite the complete absurdity of this little book, some of it is actually quality haiku.  I never thought that three line poetry about a disgusting pseudo-meat could merit praise, but some of this is downright genius.  Some of it is juvenile, and a few stray into the realm of tasteless...but if you ignore those you'll really enjoy this. (come to think of it, you probably don't have to enjoy poetry at all to laugh at this.) If it weren't for some of the ones that were a little vulgar and/or using sexual innuendo, I would give this a perfect 5.	2001-06-29
US	52012007	R2ZWFKHE572B0R	9608677807	420615246	The Truth of Our Faith	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Monastic Wisdom	&quot;The Truth of Our Faith&quot; by Elder Cleopa of Romania is an excellent Q&amp;A between Elder Cleopa and inquirers about the Orthodox faith.  In addition to the preface and a brief prologue about Elder Cleopa's life, there is an introduction by Elder Cleopa himself about his goals for the book.  The main part of the book is broken down into 19 sections/chapters on different topics.  It covers some of the Orthodox Church's teachings on the Virgin Mary and the Church's use of icons.  The Elder also answers questions about fasting, the Second Coming, and speaking in tongues.  <br />The Elder's tone is warm and simple, although he speaks unequivocally on issues in today's world of relativsm.  His in depth knowledge of the Bible is awe-inspiring and there are tons of references (thankfully the footnotes aren't done in an academic fashion that is distracting.)<br />This is an excellent place for those that know something about Orthodoxy to probe deeper.  Even though its not an ideal place for one to start reading about Orthodoxy...it would still be readily understood by one that knows virtually nothing of the Christian East.  (The ideal place to learn about Orthodoxy is an Orthodox Church.)  People that enjoyed St. Theophan the Recluse's &quot;The Spiritual Life and How to be Attuned to It&quot; or his &quot;Path to Salvation&quot; or Elder Joseph the Hesychast's &quot;Monastic Wisdom&quot; should enjoy this as it is in similar format.  Not only that all these works share the fact that they were written out of love for the world by very holy men.  Overall...highly recommended.	2001-06-28
US	52012007	R2MS5TJIWNYI4H	093863528X	125553474	Elder Melchizedek : Hermit of the Roslavl Forest  (The Acquisition of the Holy Spirit in Ancient Russia series)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting, but not too much information	When I heard about this Elder and the fact that he lived to be 125 years old, I was quite intrigued to read about his life and the kind of asceticism he must have practiced.  While there is certainly a lot of this in there, the book also covers Elder Melchizidek's interactions with other monastics of the day.  It seems to me that most of the information about Elder Melchizedek was recorded from sources talking about other Elders, Monks, Ascetics, etc.  That's not to say that this book isn't interesting, its just not all that I had hoped it to be.  The book does warm the heart though, especially when one reads of the 95 year old monk going to live in solitude...especially when that meant that he had another 30 years to live!  It is good to see that his biography/life is available although not a lot is known (the book is a mere 70 pages, forwards and indexes included.)...the book is definately worth reading.	2001-05-28
US	52012007	RDF11TVHR2VVU	1887904050	303035609	The Purple Mantle	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good, but definately for young adults	&quot;The Purple Mantle&quot; was an easy read (under 200 pages with easy vocabulary) about persecution of Christians under the reign of Emperor Diocletian.  This historical novel mentions the names of many real people including St. George.  However, the focus of the book is on one family, and on one particular member of that family, Helios, a gifted young athelete that has found favor with high government officials and has received a high military appointment.  <br />The twist is that while Diocletian's administration is fervently persecuting Christianity, Helios' mother converts to Chrisitianity.  Not wanting to give all of the book away, the book presents the struggle between personal ambition &amp; love for one's family.  That, however, is really a minor theme when one considers that people's salvation and their lives were at stake over these issues.  Although a novel, many of the events in this book really happened. <br />I think this would especially appeal to high school &amp; junior high school aged students.  It will give them a glimpse of what the early Christians had to struggle against for their Faith.  For adults, the theme is really good, but the writing is definately targeted towards younger folks, so it may be a bit simpler than some would like.  However, it was a nice easy read and did prove to be quite inspiring to me.	2001-04-24
US	52012007	R3UF2YNB6FYMMQ	0924722002	786978960	Will the Real Heretics Please Stand Up: A New Look at Today's Evangelical Church in the Light of Early Christianity	Books	4	15	19	N	N	For the most part really good...	As a former protestant, I found this book quite interesting in that it addresses many of the issues I wrestled with for a long time (especially why most protestants support the death penalty), and specifically calls protestants to look at their beliefs and behaviours as compared to those of early Christians...those from 33 AD - 300 AD. (Not that I don't think that Roman Catholics and Orthodox Christians couldn't do the same comparisons in many ways, but this book addresses many of the problems unique to protestantism.)<br />Bercot points to the fragmented nature of the protestant church (thousands upon thousands of denominations), and how theology changes and shifts from generation to generation, and he has some extremely valid points when speaking about things like Baptism (its sacramental nature isn't merely an empty symbol.)  I think both protestants and non-protestants (especially in the United States) could profit from this book, because it will help various groups figure out where each other are in some ways.<br />My major complaint is that he makes no mention of the Orthodox Church.  He references Roman Catholicism some as pertaining to the Protestant Reformation, but totally ignores the Christian East.  Since protestantism grew out of Roman Catholicism this makes sense, but to not comment on Orthodoxy at all seems strange given the fact that many of the early Church Fathers he quotes from are from the East...land which are Orthodox today.  <br />Its easy to read and is straightforward, yet there's enough substance there to chew on.	2001-04-17
US	52012007	R21EBL9R9HNC9W	1878997602	80446746	Orthodox Spiritual Life According to Saint Silouan the Athonite	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A humble giant	St. Silouan is a man of our times.  He was Russian by birth, but spent the majority of his life on Mount Athos. St. Silouan's teachings are radical, but totally Christ-centered.  His treatises on love of fellow man, love for one's enemies and love for all of creation are awe-inspiring.  While thoroughly Christian and well grounded in the Fathers, his teachings seem quite radical at times to both Orthodox Christians as well as non-Orthodox Christians and non-Christians.  Not radical in a right wing sense, but radical in his all encompassing love for all of God's creation.  His views would inspire ecologists and those in the modern environmental movement.  These ideas are totally in line with those of older saints like St. Isaac of Syria.<br />Dr. Boosalis has put together a wonderful summation of the major tenents of St. Silouan's teachings.  There are countless splended quotes from the saint on prayer, love, repentance, grace and countless other topics.  The only problem I had with the book is that the copious amount of footnotes is sometimes cumbersome and breaks the flow of the reading.  All that aside, this is still an excellent primer into the world of St. Silouan.  The primary source for this book is &quot;St. Silouan the Athonite&quot; by Elder Sophrony (still in print) which should also be read.	2001-03-13
US	52012007	RSZQJOCE48KOB	0864423705	242625838	Lonely Planet Journeys: Lost Japan	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fascinating look at Japan and what could happen elsewhere!	Alex Kerr's \\"Lost Japan\\" works on so many levels.  It is a glimpse of what is happening to a traditional culture through rapid modernization, industrialization and ultimately \\"western-ization.\\"  Kerr laments the loss of Japan's natural beauty and simultaneously celebrates Japan's fine arts traditions in various fields: music, painting, architecture, theatre, etc.  <br />At times the book gets a little weighed down by Kerr's personal anecdotes.  He obviously comes from a background that allows world travel and leisure, and some of the assumptions he makes are perhaps a little alienating to some readers.  He seems to be a man of great sensitivity and intellect and his radar for the current situation in Japan is certainly appreciated.  <br />Not only would this book be interesting to lovers of Japan, but also for those wanting to develop greater appreciation for their own surroundings or those wanting to ward off similar tragedies in their own backyard.  Much of what Kerr had to say struck a nerve with me because I see many of these own things happening in my community in America.  The landscape of my town is being overdeveloped, and the stream I used to play in as a child has now been put underground and runs through a concrete pipe in much of my town (Kerr lamented the same thing several times.)<br />The book is also fascinating for foreigners wanting to live in Japan.  He offers a lot of insight that would otherwise be difficult to learn, or would have to be learned through a series of baffling and awkward experiences.<br />The sociological/ecological/cultural value of this collection of essays is immense.  For lovers of nature &amp; culture, this is a must read!	2001-03-06
US	52012007	RPLHZWHVSLVRB	0312217943	328345043	Eating the Flowers of Paradise: One Man's Journey Through Ethiopia and Yemen	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Yemen part is good, the Ethiopia part drags	I must admit that I was a bit disappointed with this book.  Ethiopia &amp; Yemen have to be two places that most westerners are completely ingnorant of, so I thought I would find the book completely fascinating.  This, however, wasn't exactly the case.  Rushby is an adequate story teller, and his observational skills are quite astute most of the time.  The part of the book from Yemen is infinitely better than the part from Ethiopia.  You can tell Yemen is where Rushby's heart is, he just did the Ethiopia thing in emulation of Sir Richard Burton (whose works are repeatedly alluded to.)  There are some very funny parts including a Yemeni gas station where &quot;you buy 4 drinks &amp; you get a free hand grenade.&quot;  Other interesting things about the book is his comparison of how different countries either exalt or villify qat.  Overall, the book is worth reading, but it drags in some places...it took me a couple of months to get through it because I would get bored reading certain parts, but then would pick it back up and it always got better again.  If you are into horticulutre, botany, or Yemeni culture I would definately recommend it, otherwise you are probably better off reading something else.  For a great middle eastern travel book...I recommend &quot;Baghdad Without A Map.&quot;	2001-02-24
