US	52028110	R3UJWP33YDO69S	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Scathing Indictment of a Reckless Administration	Regardless of whatever mud the Bush administration tries to spatter on Mr. Clarke in retaliation for this book, there is little question that this author has written a thorough and scathing indictment of this administration's actions both before 9/11 and in the war on terror since then. This book leaves no doubt in the reader that this administration is one of the most inept and ideological that Americans have ever seen, and that such characteristics make all of us significantly less safe.  <br />Make no mistake: Clarke's charges and writing are marked by thoroughgoing disgust, but he supports all of his accusations - including the more incendiary ones - with grounding. Clarke's brand of argument is a refreshing break from the exercises in circular reasoning of the last several months that have attempted to lay all responsibility for the terrorist threat at the doorstep of President Clinton. Clarke's book diverges sharply from such ideological screeds as Rich Lowry's \\"Legacy,\\" and in a positive way: Clarke is not pushing an agenda and is, in fact, strenuously non-partisan. There is no doubt that Clarke vociferously disagrees with the manner in which the Bush administration has conducted the war on terror, but his concerns are not political in nature; rather, they are the concerns of a rigorous professional who has dedicated 30 years of his life to government service and who can't believe the utter recklessness of his former employer. <br />It must be noted that, while Clarke savages the Bush administration, he does not withhold some serious criticisms of the Clinton Administration in this book. Overall, the picture he paints of the Clinton administration is one of a methodical and thorough group of officials trying to get their arms around an emerging threat that few understood at the outset. Clarke doesn't spare details on the Khobar Towers, Embassy and U.S.S. Cole bombings, but he also does a fine job of outlining notable successes, such as the foiling of a plot to blow up LA-X during the turn of the millennium. With little question, the Clinton administration comes across as far more earnest and genuinely interested in finding a solution than the ideologues of the current administration.<br />In sum, Clarke's book is a thorough and judicious indictment of the Bush administration and its recklessness. Though the book doesn't have that much new for readers who have paid close attention to investigative newspaper reporting over the last several months, the insider details are helpful.	2004-03-22
US	52028110	R80DXNQ4PCPEZ	0895261294	206337612	Legacy: Paying the Price for the Clinton Years	Books	1	24	52	N	N	Foolish Right Wing Claptrap	As Winston Churchill said: \\"A fanatic is someone who won't change his mind, but who also won't change the subject.\\" National Review's Rich Lowry is just such a fanatic. <br />Ever since he raised marginal tax rates on the wealthiest Americans in 1993, Bill Clinton has been in the crosshairs of the the American right wing, and Lowry's \\"Legacy\\" reads like a laundry list of old favorites that we originally heard throughout the 1990s. Lowry lays all -- and I mean all -- the blame for the fact that we are now in a war against terror at the doorstep of President Clinton. To say the least, Lowry's argument begs the question, and is as tendentious as any that I've had occasion to read.<br />As weak as his arguments on terrorism and foreign policy are, Lowry's book really falls apart on domestic policy. Given GW's woeful economic performance, it's actually kind of funny to see Lowry claim that Republicans (and dumb luck) are, in fact, due all the credit for the economic expansion of the 1990s. If a fact doesn't comport with the central thesis that Clinton took the country off the rails, then Lowry simply ignores it. A prime example is the 22 million new jobs that Clinton created throughout his two terms, which is actually 25 million more jobs than George W. Bush has created. Even though GW will be the first president to lose jobs on his watch, and he has lost nearly 3 million jobs, Lowry saw fit to release a book in October 2003 that assails Clinton's economic policies. Come on now, kids....Against the backdrop of the Bush administration, the argument is just plain bizarre, and strikes this reader as  nothing more than old -- and I mean OLD -- wine in old bottles. The Republicans were wrong in their dire predictions of what Clinton's economic plan would do when it originally passed in 1993, and Rich Lowry is giving them a chance to be wrong again in this silly book that tries mightily to rewrite history.<BR> <BR>In short, if you are a brain-dead paleoconservative who wants to be reassured in everything you already wrongly believe, then by all means read Lowry's book. If you are are said paleoconservative and you uncomfortable trying to defend GW's first term -- and, quite frankly, who would be comfortable trying to do that? -- then you should also read Lowry's book. But if you are not such a paleoconservative, and you realize that the 1990s were a much better time than anything we've experienced since the reckless Crawford cowboy took office, then go on ahead and skip this book.	2004-02-17
US	52028110	R3TO6YEY8846DR	1400050669	951260070	The Lies of George W. Bush: Mastering the Politics of Deception	Books	4	28	37	N	N	Probably the Most Thorough of the Bush Critiques	With this impressive book, David Corn has done an exceptional job of marshalling the facts to prove that GW Bush is, in fact, the most mendacious of all of our presidents. <br />What sets this book apart is that Corn goes back and combs over the string of questionable military service, failed oil businesses, leveraged baseball deals, and shameful crony capitalism and pandering to reactionary interests as both Texas Governor and finally...ugh....President. <br />Corn is quite thorough and he has a snappy writing style that retains the reader's interest. Unlike Conason's book or even Al Frranken's book, Corn's treatment is more cohesive, and doesn't read like a series of vignettes. Additionally, Corn thoroughly documents his sources, and indeed, his notes could serve as a deep well of opposition research for a campaign or a 527 that is trying to rid our country of this scourge in the West Wing.<br />Overall, Corn's book is well worth reading. Unless you're the kind of knuckle dragging paleo-conservative who would still vote for Bush after all he's done to our country, then I'm sure you'll find it convincing also.	2004-02-11
US	52028110	R247TYNB9XTMRS	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	4	84	85	N	N	Insightful Book With a Few Odd Jags	With little question, much of the reportage in Kevin Phillips' \\"American Dynasty\\" is exactly the kind of thing that the major American media should have been doing prior to the 2000 election. Phillips exposes, in startling detail, the Bush family's ties to the Religious Right, big oil and the munitions complex and, in particular, how the family's longstanding relationships with all of these have reached full flower with GW Bush. Particularly damning is the chapter on the family's and the current president's relationship to some of the more fanatical elements of the Religious Right.  <br />With that said, Phillips does go off on some odd jags that will strike some readers as beyond the pale and a little nutty. In Phillips' hands, the sparse record around Prescott Bush's alleged dealings with Nazi Germany probably gets more attention than it should. Some of these more conspiratorial elements of \\"American Dynasty\\" keep this indictment from being absolutely first-rate, but do not ultimately derail the book's stronger elements.<br />Many other reviewers have dismissed Phillips as \\"bitter\\" or trying to \\"foment class warfare.\\" To such criticisms, I think it's important to consider Phillips' background. Phillips is most famous for having written \\"The Emerging Republican Majority,\\" and for having been a kind of political soothsayer who predicted the realignment that led to the end of the New Deal liberal coalition. Phillips made his greatest mark during a time of real intellectual ferment in the Republican Party -- when the ascendency of neo conservatism was breathing new life into the conservative movement, and real, serious ideas were being generated. Judging from this fact, and from reading other of Phillips' books, such as \\"Boiling Point\\" or \\"Wealth and Democracy,\\" or \\"The Politics of Rich and Poor\\" or his famous feuds with elitists, such as William F. Buckley Jr., Phillips is clearly a person who cares about all levels on the socioeconomic spectrum, and not just the plutocracy. It's easy to see why he would be so bothered by a family that embodies all the worst elements of the modern Republican Party. If only from the tone of \\"American Dynasty,\\" I have no doubt that Phillips is, in fact, greatly upset with the current status of the Republican Party of which he was long a member, and its wholesale embrace of crony capitalism and kooky religionists afraid of the teaching evolution. But unlike some of my fellow reviewers, I think Phillips' obvious disenchantment makes this book more powerful -- not less.	2004-02-07
US	52028110	R26B7Y4OEXGSQQ	0312315600	636970772	Big Lies: The Right-Wing Propaganda Machine and How It Distorts the Truth	Books	4	11	12	N	N	well done corrective to right-wing myths	Joe Conason has produced a tremendous quicksilver read about the conservative agenda that is ruining our country. Conason is quite methodical and thorough in his research and writing, and that is the book's greatest strength. <br />Conason titles each of the book's chapters with a myth that conservatives have used to divide voters. For example, there are chapters on conservative canards, such as the liberal media, patriotism, environmental stewardship and fiscal discipline. In each case, Conason documents how and why the selfish and plutocratic approach of conservatives is wrong. Indeed, the chapter on the liberal media is particularly good in its close analysis of the respective media treatments that Al Gore and George W. Bush received in 2000. Conason shows concisely that the media in 2000 ground Al Gore into a fine powder about picayune and silly matters, some of which were factually baseless. At the same time, the media gave George W. Bush a complete pass, particularly on his spotty military record and his AWOL status from the Air National Guard. The result of all of this was that Bush was given far more gravitas than he merited or deserved by the \\"so-called liberal media.\\"    <br />In what may well be the best chapter of the book, Conason lays bare the staggering hypocrisy of a significant number of conservative moralists who have stood on soapboxes about morals and Christian character while engaging in degenerate and adulterous behavior. Particularly revealing in that chapter is the case of Helen Chenowith, one of the 1994 freshman Republican Congressional representatives from Montana. Throughout her years in public life, Chenowith garnered all kinds of accolades from Christian groups, and was a vociferous leader of the attacks on Bill Clinton and his morality. According to Conason, and unfortunately for Chenowith, it turns out that she was sleeping with everything that moved, and had broken up at least one marriage because of her philandering. While juicy little stories like that one don't change the fact that Republicans are still in power and are destroying our country, they certainly are enjoyable, and Conason has a boatload of them.<br />All told, Conason has produced a highly readable corrective to the Republican lies that we're all exposed to on daily basis by vitiolic hacks like Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity and Ann Coulter. Well worth reading.	2003-08-31
US	52028110	RL8UV3HVBQV5S	0312315600	636970772	Big Lies: The Right-Wing Propaganda Machine and How It Distorts the Truth	Books	4	8	11	N	N	well done corrective to right-wing myths	Joe Conason has produced a tremendous quicksilver read about the conservative agenda is ruining our country. Conason is quite methodical and thorough in his research and writing, and that is the book's greatest strength.<br />Conason titles each of the book's chapters with a myth that conservatives have used to divide voters. For example, there are chapters on conservative canards, such as the liberal media, patriotism, environmental stewardship and fiscal discipline. In each case, Conason documents how and why the selfish and plutocratic approach of conservatives is wrong. Indeed, the chapter on the liberal media is particularly good in its close analysis of the respective media treatments that Al Gore and George W. Bush received in 2000. Conason shows concisely that the media in 2000 ground Al Gore into a fine powder about picayune and silly matters, some of which were factually baseless. At the same time, the media gave George W. Bush a complete pass, particularly on his spotty military record and his AWOL status from the Air National Guard. The result of all of this was that Bush was given far more gravitas than he merited or deserved by the \\"so-called liberal media.\\"<br />In what may well be the best chapter of the book, Conason lays bare the staggering hypocrisy of a significant number of conservative moralists who have stood on soapboxes about morals and Christian character while engaging in degenerate and adulterous behavior. Particularly revealing in that chapter is the case of Helen Chenowith, one of the 1994 freshman Republican Congressional representatives from Montana. Throuhgout her years in public life, Chenowith garnered all kinds of accolades from Christian groups, and was a vociferous leader of the attacks on Bill Clinton and his morality. According to Conason, and unfortunately for Chenowith, it turns out that she was sleeping with everything that moved, and had broken up at least one marriage because of her philandering. While juicy little stories don't change the fact that Republicans are still in power and are destroying our country, they certainly are enjoyable, and Conason has a boatload of them.<br />All told, Conason has produced a highly readable corrective to the Republican lies that we're all exposed to on daily basis by vitiolic hacks like Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity and Ann Coulter. Well worth reading.tories don't change the fact that Republicans are still in power and are destroying our country, they certainly are enjoyable, and Conason has a boatload of them.<br />All told, Conason has produced a highly readable corrective to the Republican lies that we're all exposed to on daily basis by vitiolic hacks like Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity and Ann Coulter. Well worth reading.	2003-08-31
US	52028110	R2K6OFGCCJBIKJ	0060514558	921401083	Let Freedom Ring: Winning the War of Liberty over Liberalism	Books	1	19	38	N	N	intellectual bankruptcy masquerading as political argument	If you to know anything about conservative thought and what it really means to be a conservative and think like a conservative, then skip this book.  For starters, Hannity is a hero-worshipper - not a conservative thinker. He is more interested in manufacturing doxologies to Ronald Reagan and Newt Gingrich than setting out concisely how conservatives think - and why that makes their ideology different than that of other folks on the political spectrum. Does anyone other than Hannity really believe that Ronald Reagan is singlehandedly responsible for the fall of the Soviet Union? That tommyrot version of history, which Hannity proffers repeatedly in this book, sounds like the kind of thing that a curator at the Reagan Library would say -- not a serious political commentator.          <br />Hannity's ossified bleating about tax rates, abortion and gun rights is about as revealing as yesterday's headlines. Hannity really is more of a public relations flack than an author or commentator, and his arguments would be more at home on a Republican National Committee pamphlet than in a book.	2002-09-15
US	52028110	R3AUSCE1UC5VHY	0151005524	28056719	America's Undeclared War: What's Killing Our Cities and How We Can Stop It	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Could Have Been a Good Article, But is an Awfully Windy Book	&quot;America's Undeclared War&quot; could have been a wonderful article for a quarterly publication, a format that would have afforded Daniel Lazare enough space to make his argument, but which would not have allowed him 300 pages to ramble.<br />An inelegant and windy writer, Lazare has a tendency to lose the reader's interest by filling page after page with information that is only tenuously connected to his argument. He frequently lopes off the path, including long dirges on Jeffersonianism and Jacksonian democracy, as well as a host of other subjects that, while no doubt significant, could have could have been greatly summarized with the attention of a ruthless editor. As it is, &quot;America's Undeclared War&quot; suffers from Lazare's inability to determine what's really germane to his argument, and what he considered interesting or notable during his research. A particularly egregious example of this tendency to prattle on is a two page summary of Washington Irving's &quot;Rip Van Winkle,&quot; which Lazare details to reflect the move toward urbanism in New York between the mid-1770s and the mid-1790s. The Rip Van Winkle connection could have been made much quicker, which is true of so much in this book -- a book that easily should have been 150 pages shorter.<br />When he finally gets to his argument, Lazare provides some interesting, though not new, information about how government policies have served to drain urban vitality, and produce a move to the suburban hinterlands. So little of Lazare's book is pathbreaking, and it takes the author so long to get to his subject, that &quot;America's Undeclared War&quot; is hardly worth reading. Kenneth T. Jackson's &quot;Crabgrass Frontier,&quot; which details much of the same subject matter, but which was written about 15 years ago, is a far more potent, incisive narrative. Read that instead.	2002-02-24
US	52028110	R3TR1UGOKJ2X09	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	1	19	39	N	N	tendentious and vitriolic foolishness	While Bernard Goldberg's \\"Bias\\" is an entertaining read, it ultimately fails for a couple of glaring reasons. First, the book is disjointed, and Goldberg doesn't do a particularly good job of making connections. The author trowels out instances of ambiguous events in which, if you are a tendentious author like Goldberg, you will see clear liberal bias, but doesn't do a very good job of showing how these instances illustrate an overall point of view. Underlying Goldberg's argument is the idea that the sheer number of instances of liberal bias he's witnessed -- some of which could be interpreted in various ways -- make the case that, ipso facto, the media is liberally biased. I don't think Goldberg's tack works out very well, and the author would have been better off to make more concrete connections.<br />The second key problem with Goldberg's \\"Bias\\" is Goldberg's venom. Far too many passages in this book feel like they were intended to settle scores, particularly the crack that has been extensively covered in the media about the cost of Dan Rather's suits. I think Goldberg's vitriol seriously diminishes the content of his argument, and that he would have been better off just reporting dispassionately. Maybe this vituperative approach is just Goldberg's way, and he couldn't have helped it, but in the end, it's terribly distracting.	2002-02-24
US	52028110	R3O9YU4H492E28	0684845911	302270862	The City In Mind: Notes on the Urban Condition	Books	2	17	24	N	N	Provocation For the Sake of Provocation	Far too often, James Howard Kunstler writes as if he is just trying to be provocative for the sake of being provocative. Kunstler's tendency to engage in such behavior is on parade in &quot;The City In Mind,&quot; a book that is utterly lacking in thoughtfulness or sweep. As other reviewers have noted, Kunstler is frequently content to dispense cutting and snappy observations, as opposed to weighted critiques. And Kunstler's bombastic writing gets tired....fast. The author's bombtossing style worked well in &quot;The Geography of Nowhere,&quot; which was essentially a personal memoir. But when you take him away from writing about something he knows really well -- his own life --Kunstler's observations quickly become grating, aggressive and tendentious.    <br />Kunstler's cheeky style significantly diminishes &quot;The City in Mind,&quot; because his approach comes across as only a more venomous variation of the kind of shallow observations that any tourist would make if he/she visited one of the cities about which the author writes. Sure, James Howard, I.M. Pei designed some hideous, postmodern albatrosses that hang on the Boston skyline, but so what? How do we correct such ugly, dated designs? Where do we go from here? What's next? I have little doubt that Kevin Lynch, Jane Jacobs, Lewis Mumford or William H. Whyte would have told us.<br />And that's why all should be advised to read their books instead.	2002-02-24
US	52028110	R2BLMEUGIVDPBA	0679744940	681097569	A Prayer for the City	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	a remarkable and incisive book about urban dilemmas	In many ways, Buzz Bissinger's &quot;A Prayer for the City&quot; is one of the most remarkable books ever written about an American city.<BR>In stark and sometimes shocking detail, Bissinger lays out the crises assailing the modern urban core: violence, poverty, economic development, poor public educational systems and so on. What's truly wonderful about Bissinger's book is that he leaves so many questions open. He isn't shallow or dismissive about these urban dilemmas; Bissinger doesn't give pat answers or bromides about how these problems can be solved.<br />And that's a remarkable achievement on the author's part, particularly given the manner in which he structures this book. Though he sketches the lives of several Philadelphia citizens, there are undeniably two central characters in this book: Philadelphia Mayor Ed Rendell and his Chief of Staff David Cohen. In some ways -- and I think Bissinger purposefully and effectively conveys this image - Rendell and Cohen should be seen as two sides of the same coin. <br />Both Rendell and Cohen possess essential characteristics that will be needed in the fight to save the city, but the skills of each are different and, as such, they need each other to do what must be done. Rendell is the affable, easy-mannered, though sometimes short-tempered old politician who is out front. Cohen is the workaholic lawyer whose ruthless attention to the minutiae and detail of public policy brings him 17-hour days and little public glory. The highly public role Rendell plays is layed out in one particularly moving section toward the beginning of the book. Bissinger details a funereal November, 1994 car ride that Rendell took to a city hospital where a police patrolman who had been shot was being treated. Bissinger describes Rendell's interaction with the policeman's family, as well as his palpable anger that a patrolman could be so senselessly cut down in the line of duty. In moving language, Bissinger shows the depth of the problem confronting Rendell and Cohen.<br />In addition to the generic problems besetting Philadelphia, Bissinger also details those specific to Pennsylvania's largest city. Throughout the book, Bissinger writes of Rendell's and Cohen's attempts to save the Philadelphia Naval Ship Yard from closure by the U.S. Department of the Navy. The story of the struggle for the shipyard, which means the difference between Philadelphia losing or keeping thousands of crucial jobs, provides a penetrating insight into how the municipal and federal governments often move in disparate directions, and how that can have staggering consequences for the local level.<BR>Bissinger's tone in this book is somber, without veering into the maudlin. The author provides great detail about urban problems, but not in a voyeuristic or exploitative way. Though he is clearly rooting for Rendell, Bissinger does not become fawning or mawkish. Indeed, Bissinger's reporting is impeccable, due no doubt to the wide-open access to Rendell he was clearly granted. Primarily, &quot;A Prayer for the City&quot; succeeds because Bissinger set out to tell a great story, and that essential goal is something that far too many journalistic treatments miss these days.	2001-09-17
US	52028110	R1GFYT2MMOUHXT	0679722033	912565168	The Emperor: Downfall of an Autocrat	Books	5	12	15	N	N	excellent treatment of an autocratic regime	Ryszard Kapuscinski's ability to get \\"inside\\" the foreign conflicts he covers is quite remarkable.<br />In \\"The Emperor,\\" Kapuscinski details the rise and fall of Ethiopian King Haile Selassie who, for nearly his entire reign, was regarded as a god on earth by his people. In stark prose and devastating imagery, Kapuscinski lays out the excesses of the Selassie regime - excesses that ultimately led to Selassie being overthrown. In one particularly moving passage, Kapuscinski describes how leftover food from a regal banquet is thrown down from a window in the King's mansion to starving townspeople nearby. In that passage, Kapuscinski lays out the line between the lavishness in which Selassie basked and the squalor in which most of his subjects existed.<br />Arguably, the single greatest aspect of Kapuscinski as a journalist is his healthy respect for -- and knowledge of when to provide - the history of the place he's covering. In \\"The Emperor,\\" Kapuscinski provides sufficient background on the Ethiopian conception of rulers as deities, as well as good detail about the wholesale slaughter of Ethiopians during the war with Italy in 1935. But he doesn't overdo it with the history, and that's what makes Kapuscinski's writing so good. As his later books, such as \\"Imperium,\\" about the fall of the Soviet Union, show, Kapuscinski is a much better reporter than he is a historian. When he is writing about wars, revolts, uprisings, or other events he is witnessing firsthand, Kapuscinski is at his best.<br />Of all the works Kapuscinski produced during his years with the Warsaw News Agency, \\"The Emperor\\" is probably the best. As with \\"Another Day of Life,\\" Kapuscinski's book about the Angolan Civil War, \\"The Emperor\\" lays bare a tyrannical political regime, and provides insights into why it collapsed.	2001-09-12
US	52028110	R1KLJOR538F1B9	0679746315	116218361	Up in the Old Hotel	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	an exquisite collection of classic essays	Joseph Mitchell may be the finest, most fluid writer I have ever read.<br />His prose in &quot;Up In The Old Hotel&quot; is sandbaggingly wonderful; it is a remarkable blend of the journalistic eye for detail and the novelist's ability to turn a phrase. Mitchell's evocative description the famous pub in &quot;McSorley's Wonderful Old Saloon&quot; puts the reader in the bar with him. And in addition to describing places with attention and nuance, Mitchell is equally adept at bringing to life a cast of Old New York characters that range from a street preacher to a movie house ticket seller.<BR>In the end, Mitchell's greatest achievement is that he evokes a time and place like few works of nonfiction ever do. Writings about New York City are everywhere, but good writings about the Apple aren't so easy to find. And along with A.J. Liebling's &quot;The Telephone Booth Indian,&quot; &quot;Up In The Old Hotel&quot; is about as good as it gets.	2001-09-06
US	52028110	R1R1Y3WY1WRYX5	0520216377	473399701	The Roosevelt Presence: The Life and Legacy of FDR	Books	5	10	10	N	N	an excellent and perceptive book	Despite its lack of heft, Patrick Maney has produced a wonderfully balanced and nuanced portrait of Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Indeed, Maney's book may be the finest jumping off point for those looking to get acquainted with FDR in full bloom, and not just with the nostalgic, sometimes mawkish, remembrances of politicians.    <br />When it comes to FDR, far too many readers, including a number of other reviewers here, only want to hear about positive aspects: the New Deal, winning World War II, etc. As a professional historian, Maney is not in the business of producing such hagiographies. As such, what we have here is the cool judgment and dispassionate analysis of a writer who is constructing a narrative of the historical record; not someone who is cheerleading for a particular political persuasion. Those who want a softer and friendlier treatment of Roosevelt should look elsewhere. <br />In addition to Roosevelt's many triumphs, Maney provides great detail about some of FDR's more negative aspects, such the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II, or his near pathological secrecy that kept him from grooming a successor. Maney also lays bare Roosevelt's personal peccadilloes, such as his long-term affair with Lucy Mercer.<br />In the end, Maney has done a fine job of presenting Roosevelt, and he should be commended.	2001-08-31
US	52028110	R291EBTM8DFTTL	0807842923	406881399	Boston Against Busing: Race, Class, and Ethnicity in the 1960s and 1970s	Books	5	11	21	N	N	excellent reassessment of a controversial subject	Ronald Formisano's &quot;Boston Against Busing&quot; is the single most valuable -- though not the most significant -- book about the school integration crisis in Boston in the mid-1970s. Contrary to the prevailing thought on the Boston busing imbroglio, Formisano argues that the crisis was not only a manifestation of rage and racism, but was also the natural reaction of working-class and ethnic Bostonians to a decade's worth of promises from public officials that busing would never come to Boston. Indeed, a number of public officials in Boston, such as School Committee Chairwoman/Mayoral Candidate Louise Day Hicks and School Committee member Jim Kerrigan, built their careers on such promises, which primarily served to do nothing more than enflame the passions of citizens. Another thorny aspect of the crisis that Formisano handily details is the perceptive anger and resentment of working class and white ethnic Bostonians that their neighborhoods were hijacked for social experimentation by so-called &quot;limousine liberals&quot; from the suburbs. This anger, which welled up in South Boston, Charlestown and other sections of the city, arose from the fact that schools like South Boston High School and Charlestown High School were no more white and non-integrated than the suburban school systems in which the judges and politicians who ordered busing lived - yet it was the city schools that faced federal orders to integrate. Formisano has written an incisive book that moves forward our knowledge of the Boston busing crisis. The book cuts more directly to the heart of the situation than J. Anthony Lukas' &quot;Common Ground,&quot; which is a far more celebrated work. Formisano's book is more scholarly and research-driven and less anecdotal and windy than Lukas' book. Overall, &quot;Boston Against Busing&quot; is highly recommended.	2001-08-28
US	52028110	R3DM8MX8TMENHE	067490950X	152127251	The Triumph of Ethnic Progressivism: Urban Political Culture in Boston, 1900-1925	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a great reappraisal of a complex subject	\\"The Triumph of Ethnic Progressivism\\" is an excellent reappraisal of urban politics in the early part of the 20th century. Connolly provides an exhaustive analysis of voting patterns - sometimes on a block by block basis - throughout the city of Boston. Connolly's approach (as well as research) dramatically moves forward our knowledge of precinct behavior, as well as ethnic association with particular issues. What's best about Connolly's book is that he relies less on inference and assumption that many authors who tackle this material do. Connolly's argument is predicated upon empirical evidence, and that alone is a refreshing break from much modern political history. For a better understanding of the period before Connolly's book picks up, one should read both Stephan Thernstrom's \\"The Other Bostonians\\" and Oscar Handlin's \\"Boston's Immigrants.\\" Gerard Gamm's \\"The Making of New Deal Democrats: Voter Realignment in Boston, 1920-1940\\" is an fine continuation after the period with which Connolly is concerned.	2001-08-28
US	52028110	R2EAHYSTQ7I9L3	0060168080	853195134	The Second Battle of New Orleans: The Hundred-Year Struggle to Integrate the Schools	Books	4	5	5	N	N	an informative book about regional civil rights history	Liva Baker sets one major goal for herself in this book, and accomplishes it admirably. That goal is to craft a reassessment, which conveys to the reader that the desegregation of New Orleans public schools in the early 1960s was just as politically charged and fraught with controversy as any of the busing crises that came to the fore in the 1970s. Prior to Baker's reappraisal, the prevailing notion was that New Orleans public schools had been integrated in a reasonably peaceful fashion. In reality, the situation was far tenser, more complicated and explosive that many might have believed. Through evocative and engaging sketches of the major figures of New Orleans school desegregation, such as Creole lawyer A.P. Tureaud and courageous 5th Circuit Federal Judge J. Skelley Wright, Baker shows that, but for the actions of a few dedicated figures, New Orleans would have remained under the spell of Jim Crow. While Baker's portraits of Tureaud and Wright are wonderfully readable, her portrait of Judge Leander Perez, the race-baiting delta boss of Plaquemines Parish, is equally engrossing. The bold and conscientious actions of Tureaud and Wright are counterposed with the racist antics of Perez, who invested tremendous amounts of money in a public relations to enflame passions about desegregation. In sum, Baker has offered an accurate and insightful book that is a must for anyone interested in the regional history of America's civil rights movement.	2001-08-27
US	52028110	RX0JDJX8KCHDI	0807105376	318462515	The Earl of Louisiana	Books	5	6	7	N	N	can I give it 7 stars?	A.J. Liebling has insights into politics like very few other journalists -- and all of his keen observations are on parade in this landmark book. \\"The Earl of Louisiana,\\" which was originally written as a series of dispatches for The New Yorker, is, first and foremost, a rollicking story. In addition to Governor Earl K. Long, Liebling paints wonderfully colorful portraits of a number of Louisiana's political denizens, including New Orleans Mayor Maurice Delessups, singing cowboy candidate Jimmie Davis and white supremacist scoundrel Willie Rainach. Liebling wades through the bizarre political culture of Louisiana, setting his penetrating eye on all manner of rallies, dinners and barroom jaunts where politics are discussed and dissected. Particularly entertaining is Liebling's voyage into the domain of the Old Regulars, a stalwart race-fixing organization, based in New Orleans. Over the course of his long career, Liebling produced some utterly remarkable journalism. Indeed, his writings on horse-race fixer Col. John R. Stingo in \\"The Honest Rainmaker,\\" or French cuisine in \\"Between Meals,\\" or on the vibrancy of Chicago in \\"Second City\\" are all classic works in the field of journalism. \\"The Earl of Louisiana\\" is at least the equal of any of those, and in many ways surpasses them.	2001-08-27
US	52028110	R3NTGYUXZPL0HA	0195087097	133962570	Southern Democrats	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	wonderful and informative book about regional politics	Nicol C. Rae has a remarkable ability to pinpoint key political movements and factions, and to write about them in an accessible and perceptive way. This was true of &quot;The Decline and Fall of Liberal Republicans,&quot; and it is also the case with &quot;Southern Democrats.&quot; Rae provides a fantastic thumbnail sketch of the modern Democratic Party, and the role of Southerners in it from the days of Harry S. Truman through the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and Jimmy Carter up to the dawn of the Clinton era. Like &quot;The Decline and Fall of Liberal Republicans,&quot; Rae's book could benefit from an update that would fully cover not only the Clinton era, but also the rise and current prominence of politicians like North Carolina Senator John Edwards and Louisiana Senator John Breaux. Rae's book must be highly recommended for anyone interested in modern American politics, and particularly for those interested in regional and geographic factions.	2001-08-27
US	52028110	RRSRAPLFK6W3Q	0195056051	122007389	The Decline and Fall of the Liberal Republicans: From 1952 to the Present	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	an excellent and perceptive book	Nicol C. Rae's &quot;The Decline and Fall of Liberal Republicans&quot; is a wonderful and perceptive book that details a significant but heretofore not exhaustively discussed phenomenon in recent American politics. Rae's book is the story of a now forgotten class of politicians, like Robert Taft, Jacob Javitz and Elliott Richardson, who encouraged fiscal restraint and personal freedom, but did so in a qualified fashion. Rae details how a far more right-leaning and ruthlessly ideological breed of Republicans supplanted this class of politicians, eventually causing their virtual disappearance from public life. Particularly compelling is Rae's discussion of the reemergence of religion -- especially fundamentalist, Southern religion - in first making liberal Republicans an extreme minority, and then banishing them from the party altogether. This book, particularly read in light of Vermont Senator James Jeffords' defection from the GOP, is remarkably insightful. It could, however, use an updated edition that details the developments of the last several years, many of which would bolster the book's central argument.	2001-08-27
US	52028110	R2FQ5ANOJ95K5L	0684863022	447276667	Empire Statesman: The Rise and Redemption of Al Smith	Books	5	12	12	N	N	a long overdue treatment of a progressive giant	Professor Robert A. Slayton has written a wonderfully rich and nuanced biography of one of the 20th century's great (and forgotten) political progressives. Unfortunately, Al Smith is remembered with a nod today for two interrelated reasons: 1.) As a lightning rod Roman Catholic who fell on his sword for the Democrats in a quixotic 1928 presidential run against Herbert Hoover and 2.) As the fellow who paved the way for fellow Roman Catholic John F. Kennedy's ascent to the presidency 32 years later. While these are significant portions of Smith's biography, he deserves to be remembered in the light that Professor Slayton casts him: as a political progressive who sought to improve the lives of his fellow New Yorkers, particularly poor and working class folks in need of a hand. As Slayton shows, much of the thinking that later resulted in FDR's New Deal programs had its genesis in Al Smith's New York. Slayton does a fine job covering Smith's early political career. In particular, the discussion of Smith's fight for labor and workplace reforms after the devastating Triangle Shirtwaist Fire of 1911 makes compelling reading. Some have accused Slayton of assuming too hagiographic a tone toward Smith, and though elements of that criticism may be true, Slayton's book is certainly no more fawning than Oscar Handlin's out-of-print classic, \\"Al Smith's America.\\" In the end, Slayton's book deserves high commendation - if only because it throws the spotlight on a fellow who deserves a much larger place in the story of American progressive politics.	2001-08-14
US	52028110	R2M9XRIXVWRMNT	0316260495	850544919	Tip O' Neill and the Democratic Century: A Biography	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	wonderful, evocative portrait of a major political figure	John A. Farrell's &quot;Tip O'Neill and the Democratic Century&quot; earns a place with the finest works of journalism and political history - first because the author sets himself two lofty goals, and second because he accomplishes both of them in grand fashion. First, Farrell's book is a wonderful portrait of a preeminent New Deal politician - a man who not only came of age in the Great Depression, but who also found his political moorings there. The central goal of Tip O'Neill's political philosophy was aiding his constituents, block-by-block and neighborhood-by-neighborhood. Farrell makes clear that the former Speaker had an intimate connection with the folks who elected him, and that, however high he rose, O'Neill was always eminently down-to-earth and approachable. In reading this book against the backdrop of a political culture has been overtaken by endless polling, focus groups and televised spinmeisters, it's reaffirming to know that there was a time not so long ago when a major politician chatted up voters in a local barbershop, or steadfastly bought his suits at the same haberdasher decade after decade. <br />A second, but no less significant achievement of Farrell's book, is as a detailed political history of the last century. If one only considers the two political figures that bookended O'Neill's career - at the start, Boston Mayor and flamboyant rogue James Michael Curley and at the end President Ronald Reagan - that gives a strong sense of just how much politics and public life changed over that 50 or so years. O'Neill began his career in a time when concern about the size of government was subsidiary to the goals it was intended to accomplish; a time when politicians and the public were trained on eradicating societal ills such as poverty, homelessness, joblessness, illiteracy and so on. By the time O'Neill left public life, the size and efficiency of government, particularly spending on domestic social programs, was a drum for self-proclaimed fiscal hawks to bang. Speaker O'Neill left public life in a time when Social Darwinism and exploitation of the &quot;alienated voter&quot; defined political discourse; a time when selfishness, greed, retrenchment from public life, and resentment of the veterans, the poor, the sick, and the mentally ill were rampant. So thoroughly denuded were the ideals of O'Neill's earlier career that President Reagan could connect with a wide swath of voters by repeatedly telling a false story about a Chicago &quot;welfare queen&quot; who rode around in a limousine and who ate lobster for dinner every night. Farrell shows O'Neill as someone who railed publicly against Reagan and his ilk, and who considered the President, &quot;an Irishman who forgot where he came from.&quot; Indeed, Farrell includes wonderful color about O'Neill and his wildly divergent private and public relationships with Reagan. In the end, Farrell's book succeeds because it brings its subject into full bloom; he paints pictures not only of O'Neill, but also of the times in which he lived and politicked. And that is what lifts this biography to the level of greatness.	2001-08-13
US	52028110	R1QCP5KFNH2TUC	0813368138	802526943	Comeback Cities: A Blueprint For Urban Neighborhood Revival	Books	5	7	7	N	N	an altogether remarkable book--highly recommended	Though it leaves the reader acutely aware of the problems still facing America's core urban areas, &quot;Comeback Cities&quot;  nonetheless instills a wave of optimism in the reader about the revivifying effects that grassroots community development organizations, new techniques of community policing, and deregulation in welfare, public housing and public schools have had in some of the nation's formerly moribund cities.<br />Grogan and Proscio take an anecdotal approach to their argument, which serves the book well. Where such an approach can sometimes mask a paucity of evidence, these authors have no such problem. Grogan and Proscio show that the phenomena they're discussing are just as visible in Cleveland and Boston as they are in San Francisco and Chicago. And each actual case they cite bolsters the book's argument: that bold, new approaches to age-old urban problems have recusitated patients that most prognosticators long ago said were dead on the operating table. Whether one considers HUD's mid-1990s recasting of the role and form of public housing in Chicago's Cabrini Green, William Bratton's widespread application of the &quot;broken windows&quot; method of community policing in Boston and New York City, or Cleveland Mayor Michael White's and Milwaukee Mayor John Norquist's  audacious efforts to make public schooling in their respective cities more accountable, Grogan and Proscio clearly illustrate  the key changes that are uplifting cities.<br />Another fantastic aspect of &quot;Comeback Cities&quot; is the multi-layered, nuanced approach the authors employ. Proscio and Grogan understand, and they make the reader understand, that community policing, community development corporations, economic deregulation, and public school accountability are all interrelated solutions to urban problems. Far too often, politicians and public policy commentators argue that such problems are individual and should be combatted individually and apart from the larger picture.Smartly, these authors show that such an approach is not only no longer possible, but that it may just have contributed to the deep-seated problems affecting cities in the first place.<br />Finally, the prose of &quot;Comeback Cities&quot; deserves an effusive salute. Where many planning books can be arrid and full of jargon, these authors are careful to boil down their arguments to their essential terms, while providing the appropriate and necessary background. &quot;Comeback Cities&quot; reads like the best journalism, and I must recommend it as one of the finest books I've read in months.	2001-07-11
US	52028110	RXF0029FAXLTC	0671778773	463539565	Why Americans Hate Politics: The Death of the Democratic Process	Books	5	20	21	N	N	could show a thing or two to some textbooks I know....	&quot;Why Americans Hate Politics&quot; is a brilliant treatment of the major themes of American politics of the last 50 or so years from today's best political journalist. This book showcases exactly what is so good about Dionne's Washington Post columns: insights that are always penetrating, and never anodyne. <br />Dionne nicely handles a wide spectrum of issues, such as feminism, the resurgence of religion in politics, supply side economics and the divisions in both modern liberalism and conservatism. At the same time, Dionne provides depth, breadth and context that are uncharacteristic of many textbooks that cover the same period. Dionne does not heed the traditional fissures between political history, intellectual history, economic history and civil rights history. Because of this tack, Dionne effectively conveys just how much was going on at any point in American political life.<br />Finally, I appreciated Dionne's willingness both to mention and cite other works that provide a more thorough treatment of given subjects. Among the many titles I got from reading Dionne's book were Nicol Rae's &quot;The Decline and Fall of Liberal Republicans,&quot; Kevin Phillip's &quot;The Politics of Rich and Poor&quot; and John Richard Neuhaus' &quot;The Naked Public Square.&quot; Any book that gives me three suggestions of three more &quot;must read&quot; titles gets extra points.	2001-01-18
US	52028110	R2B9N4FG5FLIF6	1566395178	186002337	Writing Wrongs (American Subjects)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	well-done; quite insightful	&quot;Writing Wrongs&quot; is a fine, very helpful book. King does a nice job of laying out the broad strokes of Shawn's dramatic philosophy, while simultaneously providing enough detail about the individuals works themselves. The greatest benefit of King's summaries is their thoroughness. These summaries are not the pat, shallow kinds of things that are far too common in treatments like these. In particular, King's handling of &quot;Our Late Night,&quot; a shockingly-hard-to-find play from the early 1970s is to be commended. King's ability to bring forth the biting sarcasm and sagacity of &quot;Our Late Night&quot; is one of the highest points of his book. More generally, I cannot imagine that the broadly outlined, yet detailed approach was an easy balance to strike, and King should be applauded for his facility. I must, however, agree with the previous reviewer that the definitive work on Shawn is still to be written.	2000-11-26
US	52028110	R2WIHKHQIICCQ5	0878332316	257211849	Martini Man: The Life of Dean Martin	Books	3	23	26	N	N	not bad...but	This book isn't bad, but the great biography of Dean Martin is still to be written. Nonetheless, this book is a vast improvement over Nick Tosches' &quot;Dino.&quot; While Tosches elected to write the fluffy, tabloid  nonsense version of Martin's story, this is at least a traditional  biography. Other reviewers are correct that entirely too much time is spent  on Martin's films; much more detail should have been spent on his singing.  In particular, I would like to see a biographer discuss the divide between  Martin's earlier hits and his later ones. It seems to me that there is a  lot to be said about the traditional tunes, such as &quot;Memories Are Made  of This&quot; and &quot;I'd Cry Like A Baby&quot; and later ones, such as  &quot;One Cup of Happiness&quot; and &quot;Lay Some Happiness on Me.&quot;  These later songs come long after the high tide of the Rat Pack (circa  1966). While Martin's life certainly is complicated, and he was a  purposeful enigma, I think a biographer can do better than exhaustively  discussing &quot;Irma La Duce.&quot;	1999-12-17
US	52028110	RSE4UUB99ZBXD	0807004030	372516055	Liberty's Chosen Home: The Politics of Violence in Boston	Books	5	6	12	N	N	an eminently readable treatment of Boston politics	&quot;Liberty's Chosen Home&quot; is a thorough and well-balanced  treatment of the politics of violence in Boston. Using the busing crisis of  the 1970's as his central theme, Lupo elucidates some of the various ethnic  conflicts which have plagued Boston since its founding. Lupo's status as a  prominent journalist and a political insider allows him to provide the  reader with a unique, firsthand view of the events he details. In addition,  his familiarity with the vagaries of Boston politics enables him to draw  remarkable character sketches of the players in these same events. For  example, his analyses of Mayor Kevin White's upbringing and administration  are penetrating. In fact, these discussions of White are more insightful  than those in the far more celebrated, &quot;Common Ground&quot; by Anthony  J. Lukas. While this latter book has garnered a great deal of attention for  its wide scope, Lupo's book is no less an achievement. Highly Recommended.	1998-10-15
US	52028110	R3MP0UAR73HZB6	1555532462	218881431	Building A New Boston: Politics and Urban Renewal, 1950-1970	Books	4	5	6	N	N	an excellent treatment of a complicated subject	The current dean of Boston historians, Thomas O'Connor writes with a  definite passion for his subject matter. O'Connnor deftly navigates the  various personalities and political administrations that brought about the  redevelopment of &quot;The Athens of America.&quot; O'Connor adds touches  that only a local with his experience could. Highly recommended	1998-09-22
