US	52029544	R1UG3B63C1I8TC	0195166345	358238443	The Allure of Toxic Leaders: Why We Follow Destructive Bosses and Corrupt Politicians--and How We Can Survive Them	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Excellent read	If you are tired of reading the same old stories on leadership and great leaders, this book will revive your failing spirits. The Allure of Toxic Leaders is a deep treatise into the psychology of leaders, and more importantly, their followers. Jean Lipman-Blumen will take your assumptions on leadership and turn them around. Critically, she'll help us (the followers) understand `toxic' leaders and some of the symptoms of toxicity, and indeed, how we are responsible for often pushing non-toxic leaders over the edge.<br /><br />Weaving threads from psychology, philosophy and management, Lipman-Blumen skillfully takes us from the most basic needs of followers, and how leaders emerge, through to diagnostics for the toxicity of leaders. Toxic leaders are those such as Ken Lay of Enron, Al Dunlap at Sunbeam, or Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, who are charming at first, but eventually manipulate, mistreat, weaken, and ultimately devastate their followers.<br /><br />This book works on so many levels - it calls us to examine ourselves, our needs, hopes and fears that are expressed in the leaders we choose. It serves as a guide for leaders who want to deeper understand their connection to their followers and perhaps understand why they may be driven to toxic actions. Lipman-Blumen has, in a succinct and erudite manner, brought the conceptual and practical together in this excellent treatment on leadership and (most often forgotten by others) - followership.	2004-12-20
US	52029544	RF5WY0FODAJJ5	1591391857	773753166	Seeing What's Next: Using Theories of Innovation to Predict Industry Change	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Excellent Read	A stunningly good book. If you were disappointed at The Innovator's Solution, Christensen and team certainly deliver in Seeing What's Next. This is an intensely theoretically book so it is not to all tastes, and it takes a long time to digest. The analytics and case studies used are rudimentary, but the conceptual frameworks will have true strategists buzzing. Departing from his usual formula, Christensen and co-authors Scott Anthony and Erik Roth, aim Seeing What's Next at those who watch industries from the outside and must make important decisions based on what they see. By contrast The Innovator's Dilemma and The Innovator's Solution were aimed at managers inside firms who wanted to defend against or attack with a disruption.<br /><br />In this book, the authors proclaim that good theory provides a robust way to understand important developments, even when data is limited. And theory is even more helpful when there is so much data that it is tough to discern what information really matters. Theory helps to identify signals of change amongst a deluge of meaningless \\"noise\\". Three big theoretical frameworks are brought together in this work, as outlined in previous Christensen's books.<br /><br />Firstly the Disruptive Innovation Theory - refers to how new entrants to an industry can use relatively simple, convenient, low-cost innovations to create growth and triumph over powerful incumbents. Disruptive innovation can be of two types: one) low end disruptions which deliver a low priced alternative to customers who are overshot by existing offerings or two) new-market disruptions, which create new growth by making it easier to for people to do something that historically required deep expertise or wealth.<br /><br />Secondly the Resources, Processes and Values Theory - that helps to explain why existing companies have such difficultly in grappling with disruptive innovations. The theory holds that resources (what an organization has), processes (how work is done), and values (the criteria by which resources are allocated) collectively define the organization's strengths as well as its weaknesses and blind spots.<br /><br />Thirdly the Value Chain Evolution Theory - this framework helps to assess whether an organization has made the organizational design choices to compete successfully. The golden rule underlying this theory is that companies ought to control any activity or combination of activities within the value chain that drive performance along the dimensions that matter most to customers. In other words, they should integrate to improve performance along dimensions that are \\"not good enough\\" for what customers need and outsource what is \\"more that good enough\\" (those features and improvements that customer don't need and won't pay more to use).<br /><br />Combining these three models will achieve a process for \\"looking ahead, and working backwards\\", as ManyWorlds CEO Steve Flinn would say. Combine this approach with the StrategySpace™ model, to ensure that your organization is not trying to inhabit the same \\"strategyspace\\" as current or future players in your marketspace and you have an excellent recipe for success. Of course it all comes down to execution, and theories are impotent until they are used, but if you can see what's next, you are half way there.s done), and values (the criteria by which resources are allocated) collectively define the organization's strengths as well as its weaknesses and blind spots.  <br /> <br />Thirdly the Value Chain Evolution Theory - this framework helps to assess whether an organization has made the organizational design choices to compete successfully. The golden rule underlying this theory is that companies ought to control any activity or combination of activities within the value chain that drive performance along the dimensions that matter most to customers. In other words, they should integrate to improve performance along dimensions that are \\"not good enough\\" for what customers need and outsource what is \\"more that good enough\\" (those features and improvements that customer don't need and won't pay more to use).  <br /> <br />Combining these three models will achieve a process for \\"looking ahead, and working backwards\\", as ManyWorlds CEO Steve Flinn would say. Combine this approach with the StrategySpace model, to ensure that your organization is not trying to inhabit the same \\"strategyspace\\" as current or future players in your marketspace and you have an excellent recipe for success. Of course it all comes down to execution, and theories are impotent until they are used, but if you can see what's next, you are half way there.	2004-12-20
US	52029544	RGJ4AK74FNX6A	1576753107	159866164	Formula 2+2: The Simple Solution for Successful Coaching (The Ken Blanchard Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good read	This excellent and fast reading book, written by a father and son team, contains some great advice for coaching employees and giving feedback that's really useful. If you, like many managers, dread doing performance reviews and put off difficult conversations until the last possible minute, you'll find some salvation in Formula 2+2. In some ways the framework presented is simple and intuitive, but takes some work in practice.<br /><br />The book is written as a business fable. Seems we are all learning more from stories than ever. The tale begins with an introduction to a harried manager Pauline, and her staff who are responsible for sales at their organization. Pauline has the usual duties of a manager, with all the bureaucracy and effort that entails. Managing her staff, Pauline doesn't realize how some run-of-the-mill activities as part of the standard corporate performance management process, actually cause employee dissatisfaction and discord. Meeting an outside mentor, Pauline learns how to apply `balance, timeliness, focus, specificity and follow-up' as key elements of success in giving feedback.<br /><br />A simply written, short and succinct text is complemented by interesting pull-out quotes, such as \\"feedback should be as much of a celebration of success as it is a correction of problems\\" and \\"whenever performance appraisals result in surprise, the manager has failed\\". While 2+2 may take some time to get right, it appears to be an excellent tool that the Allens have developed to help overcome one of the biggest issues managers have with their staff - communication.	2004-12-20
US	52029544	RDGQW6Q71JVY7	1578519314	306337706	What's the Big Idea? Creating and Capitalizing on the Best New Management Thinking	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Excellent read	A most interesting and delightfully opinionated book is the latest offering from Tom Davenport and Larry Prusack. Easily digested, this book attempts to `out-meta' the competition in the game of management idea mindshare, by giving a framework by which other ideas are evaluated for their applicability to your organization. `He who owns the process wins' is an oft-quoted clich&eacute; at ManyWorlds.com and this book makes a good claim for the process. But more seriously, it does introduce some important (dare I say new) thinking into the faddish and/or fatigued  of management ideas.<br />The most critical of those is that of the `idea practitioner' - the role of the unsung heroes in organizations that translate the guru's missives from on high to that of the real-world working  business. They are defined as `individuals who use business improvement ideas to bring about change in organizations'. And to help you seek out these people in your company, Davenport and Prusack helpfully profile a number of real idea practitioners across a range of companies such as BP, Clarica, World Bank, BIC and many others. But chances are that if you are attracted to this book, you are probably an idea practitioner yourself, even in latent form.<br /><br />The idea practitioner is an idea filterer who possesses the key skills of `translation, harmonization and timing' and applies them to new ideas around the organization. It's the skill of knowing when to introduce an idea, to maximize its impact and benefit to the organization.<br />What's the Big Idea? examines the lifecycles of ideas, internal and external adoption rates as well as describing the categories of gurus. These include academic gurus (think Michael Porter), consultant gurus (think Adrian Slywotzky), practicing manager gurus (think Jack Welch) and journalist gurus (think Tom Stewart). Of course these categories are blurred but the distinction is useful. An interesting step would be to consider what type of guru your company seems most interested in. My guess would be that hard asset companies are likely to be swayed by practicing manager and consultant type gurus, high growth companies by journalist gurus and very large enterprises by academic gurus.<br />But the problem with being an idea practitioner is while you may be rewarded by a good profile in Davenport's next book, you may not be appreciated for your network and filtering skills by your own organization. Indeed, pursuing your interest in ideas may only be tolerated once you have proved yourself in more operational roles. Even so, such an idea driven route can be career limiting, since in every idea you sell to the organization, there will always be an ounce of personal credibility that has to go with it. But by taking the core of the idea, the `zeitgeist' and perhaps even innovating a little on top of it to make it more acceptable to your organization, you can build on the foundation of initiatives before it.<br />Which is just as ideas themselves do. In every idea, the authors would argue,  there is a kernel of good practice that should be adopted. The problem is that there is often so much emotion wrapped up around a guru, or a leading company or the idea itself is that this kernel is often ignored or dismissed. But gurus themselves are also guilty of this practice. They often battle against each other, dismiss others' ideas or do not give credit to their sources, teams or inspiration. Sounds just like the local management corporate politics wrestled with in 90% of companies, doesn't it? Thus the role of idea practitioner becomes all the more important to the corporation, navigating both the external and internal battlefields.<br />Overall, a highly recommended read .Additional highlights including a non-partisan ranking of the top 200 business gurus (contrast that with our traffic based rankings on ManyWorlds.com) and an interview with the immensely smart Steve Kerr, previously CLO at GE and now at Goldman Sachs, on how he `idea practitions'.a practitions'.	2003-07-11
US	52029544	R2X8ZCIP6BPGY9	1578517060	190447759	Guiding Growth: How Vision Keeps Companies on Course	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I'm a Convert!	Ah, corporate vision statements. Before reading Guiding Growth I did not put great faith in them. I, as the author, Mark Lipton, was not convinced of the power of corporate visions at the beginning of his research. Visioning to some extent has been a management fad that has come and gone. However Lipton's research finds that for companies who truly have a vision that helps their companies stretch and grow, and is deeply embedded in their organizations; the market returns are demonstrably better.<br />Vision, in Lipton's model is composed of three elements: raison d'être, strategy and values. In Guiding Growth Whole Foods Market is quoted as saying `our vision statement reflects the hope and intentions of many people. We do not believe it always accurately portrays the way things currently are at Whole Foods market so much as the way would like things to be. It is our dissatisfaction with the current reality, when compared with what is possible, that spurs us toward excellence and toward creating a better, company and world.' Strong stuff indeed. And in ManyWorlds' experience, for many companies the articulation of a vision is often based on their heritage, not to where they want to grow, and not what differentiates them.<br />Lipton also examines the role of executive groups (not teams) and the alignment of people processes with vision, to bring the vision alive, real and accountable. The book is as much about leadership and organizational culture as it is about growth and vision, which are of course the fruits and seeds of each other, within the organizational greenhouse. He writes, `Organizations rocketing through extended periods of growth. To succeed, they need a combination of all the right ingredients and they must be in near-perfect alignment. If one element is missing, or out of alignment, then the potential for failure rockets as well...all organization share the same need to have the right ingredients in place and to ensure they are aligned and that is what the executive group accomplishes through the vision framework.'<br />Peppered with examples from a range of companies and with deeper analysis of high-growth organizations such as Oakley, Lipton has done an excellent job of presenting both a visioning framework and insights into culture and leadership into a practical and usable work. Helpful lists of questions, checklists and exercises bring this already enthusiastic text to a more approachable and actionable level. Highly recommended for executives and managers from a variety of functional areas including business unit heads and `service lines' such as HR.what the executive group accomplishes through the vision framework.' <br />Peppered with examples from a range of companies and with deeper analysis of high-growth organizations such as Oakley, Lipton has done an excellent job of presenting both a visioning framework and insights into culture and leadership into a practical and usable work. Helpful lists of questions, checklists and exercises bring this already enthusiastic text to a more approachable and actionable level. Highly recommended for executives and managers from a variety of functional areas including business unit heads and `service lines' such as HR.	2003-06-21
US	52029544	R36F3EMK13D7RK	1400046009	630563317	When You Say Yes but Mean No: How Silencing Conflict Wrecks Relationships and Companies... and What You Can Do About It	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Excellent Read	Picture the scene. Your leadership team is sitting in all day meeting discussing the vision of the future for your company or a new initiative. By the end of the day, everybody is in agreement and consensus about the direction or plan. Everybody nods his or her head and expresses how valuable the day has been. And then you all go home, and think what a waste of time that day really was. Sound familiar? In When You Say Yes But Mean No Leslie Perlow, in her role of corporate culture anthropologist, examines the reasons behind this and other similar situations when the true source of differences in opinion is never expressed. This lack of understanding is highly detrimental to both the company and its employees.<br />Perlow's empirical research for the book is focused on companies that were born in the high growth, high stakes games of the dot com era, where corporate culture formation and working relationships are accelerated, and is reminiscent of the way a scientist uses fruit flies to study lifecycles. Her findings are directly applicable to larger, mature corporations, and ManyWorlds, in its work with large clients has often seen the scenarios presented.<br />The `Silent Spiral' is the term given to the systematic silencing of differences that people feel is appropriate. Voicing differences is often felt to be wrong, not being a `teamplayer' or not playing by the rules of the game. Not speaking up, though Perlow argues, sends us on a spiral of destructive emotions, making employees feel their opinions are not valued, killing their creativity and not giving feedback that is direly needed for the good of the company.<br />In part, this spiraling is due to the sense of urgency that pervades today's society and corporations. The author says we often bite our tongue, thinking to ourselves, `we just need to get on with it. We don't have time to worry about it now.' A `lack of input and hasty deliberations that can lead to an inferior decision-making process and to less potential for creativity and learning.'<br />So how to escape the silent spiral? Perlow suggests the approach of `seeking mutual understanding' and illustrates this through copious scenarios to demonstrate the nuances to what might seem an easily dismissable technique. By seeking the reasons why another person may have a different opinion, it is possible to uncover `the core issues in important relationships.' In the words of Steven Covey, `seek first to understand and then to be understood.' If you can fully appreciate the gravitas and implications of these words, then you have the knowledge to stop the spiral. But the best way to defeat the silent spiral is to understand why, how and where it occurs, which Leslie Perlow deftly demonstrates in this articulate and clear work. Recommended reading for all managers and executives who recognize the importance of subtext in meetings and cultures, and this book would be an excellent starting and talking point on the journey to establishing mutual understanding.ss potential for creativity and learning.' <br />So how to escape the silent spiral? Perlow suggests the approach of `seeking mutual understanding' and illustrates this through copious scenarios to demonstrate the nuances to what might seem an easily dismissable technique. By seeking the reasons why another person may have a different opinion, it is possible to uncover `the core issues in important relationships.' In the words of Steven Covey, `seek first to understand and then to be understood.' If you can fully appreciate the gravitas and implications of these words, then you have the knowledge to stop the spiral. But the best way to defeat the silent spiral is to understand why, how and where it occurs, which Leslie Perlow deftly demonstrates in this articulate and clear work. Recommended reading for all managers and executives who recognize the importance of subtext in meetings and cultures, and this book would be an excellent starting and talking point on the journey to establishing mutual understanding.	2003-06-21
US	52029544	R2OEWXA96LHK04	1578518377	203778685	Open Innovation: The New Imperative for Creating and Profiting from Technology	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Open Your Mind, Open Your Company	As we have come to expect from Harvard's Professor Chesbrough, Open Innovation is a wealth of insight and knowledge in how organizations can transform themselves by blending the best of their internal know-how and external sources of perspectives. Beginning with an interesting historical vantage point, Chesbrough introduces us to innovation structures as they have evolved at the beginning of the twentieth century, through the establishment of central research & development facilities and beyond. It was historian Alfred Chandler who first researched the economies of scale that resulted from the internal research & development facilities. As it points out in the book, `these R&D facilities were so successful in extracting more efficiency out of increased understanding that they created natural monopolies in many leading industries, or economies of scope'. But many erosion factors have weathered these fortresses of knowledge, and now Chesbrough maintains that innovations, however clever, are worth nothing until a viable business model is found to exploit them.<br />The function of a business model, according to the author and colleague Richard Rosenbloom, is to: articulate the value proposition; identify a market segment; define the structure of the firm's value chain; estimate the cost structure and margin, describe the position of the firm within the value network and to formulate the competitive strategy of the offering. So invention is not enough. Organizations most follow the path to commercialization, but that route often means it must work collaboratively with many others. This approach has many ramifications on company structure and ways of working. It is hard for organizations (and their leaders) to work on having core-differentiated capabilities, while still being open with their value network. Therefore, this leads ManyWorlds to assume that those things, which are seen as true differentiators in mature companies, must move away from a specific product advantages and more toward process differentiating capabilities. While there is always a role for product innovators, the model they operate under is not usually scaleable, and companies often grow into either `economies of scale' or `economies of scope'. But finding and developing that all important part of the value network becomes a crucial skill in itself.<br />Open Innovation is a truly excellent book that a review cannot do justice to. With detailed case studies on Xerox (and spin outs), Intel and examples from many other companies, Chesbrough has written an insightful and timely work that draws many threads together. Executives who want to explore how facets of innovation, whether internally or externally motivated, sourced or executed, would not find a better read than Open Innovation.tages and more toward process differentiating capabilities. While there is always a role for product innovators, the model they operate under is not usually scaleable, and companies often grow into either `economies of scale' or `economies of scope'. But finding and developing that all important part of the value network becomes a crucial skill in itself. <br />Open Innovation is a truly excellent book that a review cannot do justice to. With detailed case studies on Xerox (and spin outs), Intel and examples from many other companies, Chesbrough has written an insightful and timely work that draws many threads together. Executives who want to explore how facets of innovation, whether internally or externally motivated, sourced or executed, would not find a better read than Open Innovation.	2003-06-21
US	52029544	R1Y6ODPLKOD5J5	0471268070	288201459	CEO Capital: A Guide to Building CEO Reputation and Company Success	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Build your CEO Capital	In CEO Capital, Leslie Gaines-Ross has written an insightful and enlightening book for those who want to increase the positive visibility and reputation of their CEO. It is a surprise to this reviewer that more books have not been written on the subject of how to master the art of building your reputation when both your own personal future and corporate future may be resting on it.<br />The celebrity hungry society of today looks to corporate movers and shakers especially the CEO as icons of a particular company. Think about Lee Iacocca, Jack Welch, Richard Branson, Bill Gates and Steve Jobs to mention just a few. How much of your opinion of these companies (and notice I don't even have to mention which companies they run/ran) is based on your perceived image of the CEO? The phrase `you are your company' has never been more true, especially in the post Enron & Arthur Anderson world. How has your opinion of Enron changed now that you know more about Jeff Skilling and Andrew Fastow? Despite any fraud at Enron being committed by the few and not the masses of the organization, our entire perception of Enron has shifted to the iconic few.<br />Part I of CEO Capital is a contextual look at CEO capital: what it is, where it comes from and how it can be built. Gaines-Ross draws us in by looking at the CEO Effect by citing some examples as far back as 1985 starting with Roberto Goizueta, then CEO of Coca-Cola and the whole `New Coke' revolt, that could have been a fatal disaster for the company. But Goizueta, trading on his CEO capital, not only avoided being removed but was able to bring the company back even stronger.<br />Part II is most interesting and is centered on the five stages postulated in the CEO capital model which take you by the hand, and step by step go through best practices (ed: hate that term but in this situation it is apt), principles and linkages to factors affecting the building of CEO capital. As the book says, `the reader may be left with the impression that the stages read almost like a manual on how to lead a company. This perception is quite acceptable and entirely reasonable because nothing is more conducive to building CEO capital than building a strong, high-performing company. Any similarity between the two is entirely intentional.' Which is indeed how it reads, but in doing so, broadens the scope of the content to be relevant to a wider audience of business managers and executives who may not be leading Fortune 500 type companies (yet!). In fact, they may be the very leaders who will gain most from this book, since they are not too arrogant to learn and may gain the most from any capital building opportunities presented to them.<br />Chapters in the book include guidance on the Countdown (the time before the CEO-elect takes office), the First One Hundred days and the First Year, and then of course the second year in office which is always much harder than the first.<br />Gaines-Ross has written a truly pioneering work - overall an excellent book on a little-written about subject. The book is practically written and you should not let its somewhat `user manual' style detract you from putting its advice into action. Recommended for CEOs and CEOs to-be of all sized companies, as well as other corporate officers and marketing/PR professionals who may guide along the process.ession that the stages read almost like a manual on how to lead a company. This perception is quite acceptable and entirely reasonable because nothing is more conducive to building CEO capital than building a strong, high-performing company. Any similarity between the two is entirely intentional.' Which is indeed how it reads, but in doing so, broadens the scope of the content to be relevant to a wider audience of business managers and executives who may not be leading Fortune 500 type companies (yet!). In fact, they may be the very leaders who will gain most from this book, since they are not too arrogant to learn and may gain the most from any capital building opportunities presented to them. <br />Chapters in the book include guidance on the Countdown (the time before the CEO-elect takes office), the First One Hundred days and the First Year, and then of course the second year in office which is always much harder than the first. <br />Gaines-Ross has written a truly pioneering work - overall an excellent book on a little-written about subject. The book is practically written and you should not let its somewhat `user manual' style detract you from putting its advice into action. Recommended for CEOs and CEOs to-be of all sized companies, as well as other corporate officers and marketing/PR professionals who may guide along the process.	2003-05-14
US	52029544	R3P16KLJIE44ZL	0787964808	976044763	Saving the Corporate Soul--and (Who Knows?) Maybe Your Own	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Excellent and Essential Advice	David Batstone's excellent book on corporate integrity is a must-read for executives and managers who want ideas on how to create profitable but soulful businesses that show heart as well as logic. This is not a text that preaches from the pulpit or revels in moral condemnation of Enron's misdeeds. For those of us who are sick to the teeth of reading Enron/Anderson post-mortems, Batstone's book will come as a refreshing change.<br />Reputation building has always been a profitable way to grow a business. `Reputation is not the same thing as a brand' Batstone says. Instead he says, `Reputation is the perceived character a company holds to public eye', which is probably the best definition this reviewer has read. Using the eight principles outlined in the book, managers are guided through examples that have helped or hindered individual companies. IKEA vs Home Depot for example is cited in the Community section of the book - the underlying principle being `A company will think of itself as part of a community as well as a market'. Which one would you rather have open a store in your community, and why? For the record, the residents of Mountain View, CA (a pretty town near to Silicon Valley) said they'd prefer an IKEA, and not because they like modular Swedish furniture.<br />The eight principles outlined in the book are:<br />Principle One: The directors and executives of a company will align their personal interests with the fate of stakeholders and act in a responsible way to ensure the vitality of the enterprise.<br />Principle Two: A company's business operations will be transparent to shareholder, employees and the public and its executives will stand by the integrity of their decisions.<br />Principle Three: A company will think of itself as part of a community as well as a market.<br />Principle Four: A company will represent its products honestly to customers and honor their dignity up to and beyond a transaction.<br />Principle Five: The worker will be treated as a valuable team member, not just a hired hand.<br />Principle Six: The environment will be treated as a silent stakeholder, a party to which the company is wholly accountable.<br />Principle Seven: A company will strive for balance, diversity and equality in its relationships with workers, customers and suppliers.<br />Principle Eight: A company will pursue international trade and production based on respect for the rights of workers and citizens of trade partner nations.<br />If you are looking for one book to share with others in your organization to start a discussion on integrity and reputation, Saving the Corporate Soul should be it.treated as a valuable team member, not just a hired hand. <br />Principle Six: The environment will be treated as a silent stakeholder, a party to which the company is wholly accountable. <br />Principle Seven: A company will strive for balance, diversity and equality in its relationships with workers, customers and suppliers. <br />Principle Eight: A company will pursue international trade and production based on respect for the rights of workers and citizens of trade partner nations. <br />If you are looking for one book to share with others in your organization to start a discussion on integrity and reputation, Saving the Corporate Soul should be it.	2003-05-14
US	52029544	R36QQQG3D3GZKZ	0787955477	428267989	Leading with Soul: An Uncommon Journey of Spirit, New & Revised	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Beautiful book	Well, this is a management book, but not in the usual vein. It is very hard for this reviewer to know what to tell others about it since for some it will be inspirational and for others garbage. It is a gentle book, very fast to read and very slow to digest. It is a contemporary parable of a business leader Steve, who although 'successful' in many materialistic ways is unfulfilled with his life. It seems that material accomplishments are not enough, and he struggles with a sense of purpose in himself and to instill it in others. Maria is his spiritual guide and most of the book tells their conversations over a long period of time. It is quasi-religious but interesting in the sense that we have all had a moment when we look internally and ask what am I doing or why am I here.<br />It is not a book to read if you are highly cynical about 'softer' concepts and do not like to think about what motivates people who work with you to achieve higher things. This is the type of book that you either love or hate, it either changes your life or inspires sneers. Beautifully written and full of powerful quotes that are interweaved like silent mines from writers such as Rumi and Ernest Becker.	2002-06-04
US	52029544	R908Z8TC9XU1G	0446528005	34380551	X-Engineering the Corporation: Reinventing Your Business in  the Digital Age	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great read	Want to add the next kicker to your business model? Then seriously consider X-Engineering your Corporation. Champy gives solid examples from both high technology 'giants' such as Dell, Cisco and Solectron and more traditional companies in healthcare, financial services and publishing in a good balance that demonstrate how taking a different perspective on your corporation's processes can deliver real results. Extend your processes out to your customers, your suppliers and even your competition to achieve customer informed value propositions that balance between product/service push and market pull. Operate only those processes which are really core to you as internal 'secrets'. Champy gives advice on how companies can stage their X-engineering efforts and gives guidance on common pitfalls.<br />This book is a good, fast read, sure to excite any executive's mind who wants to position their company to have a sustained advantage and achieve a new platform from which to have options to grow their business.	2002-05-27
US	52029544	R1YOCBUNGT8VRR	157851441X	426113858	The Attention Economy : Understanding the New Currency of Business	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Organizational ADD - what an intriguing concept...	The war for eyeballs and attention can only grow fiercer over the next few years. In the Information Economy we all suffer from overload and the need to multitask through the day. Tom Davenport and John Beck makes the case that in the future we will need to `attention manage' as a metric. They ask whether `we are the first society with ADD' (attention deficit disorder), and they list symptoms of organizational ADD.<br />As mentioned in the editorial review the Attention Economy is littered with anecdotal pull-outs and &quot;overheard&quot; comments; as well as random factoids such as that the Sunday edition of the New York Times contains more written factual information than was available to reader in the 15th century. Though these factoids are intriguing they can be distracting as they are not always connected to the main body of material. But in some ways they exemplify the attention problem as you are often drawn to reading them.<br />The main body of the book is devoted to looking at tactics for companies to achieve and manage attention both on an internal basis and with their customers and partners. Softer issues such as personal time management are looked at in the context of the wider picture and have implications for both people and organizations. I found the book however to be missing a `model' or framework that companies could really use. Aside from having an in-depth awareness of the issue, I am unsure what I would do/have done differently after reading it.<br />The book is well written and engaging, and the authors present an excellent perspective on this most-precious resource.	2001-09-26
US	52029544	R15BZSD12M9QID	1578512212	732504203	Brand New : How Entrepreneurs Earned Consumers' Trust from Wedgwood to Dell	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent Reading	Sick of reading books about branding in the new economy, ebrands, digital brands and every other thing that marketers try to sell you? Then read this book for inspiration, which is not only about branding, but poignantly illustrates the pleasures and the pain of entrepreneurship, and managing a growing business.<br />This book is very well written, with excellent observations and pointers for success. Although the majority of the book is case studies, these are not the usual 'filler' material that have become so common in business books. I highly recommend the studies of Wedgewood, Heinz and Marshall Field, and how they took advantage of new trends such as railroads and communications. These are not so far from the revolution that the Internet has placed many corporations in. The historical perspective is excellent, and for once this is not written by a big 5 consultant with something to prove, or a service to flog.	2001-06-01
US	52029544	RPFRQ7IP47XQ7	0385501331	815587551	Creative Destruction: Why Companies That Are Built to Last Underperform the Market--And How to Successfully Transform Them	Books	5	22	27	N	N	An Excellent and Worthwile Read	Foster and Kaplan take dead aim at the &quot;built-to-last&quot; crowd -- the cluster of authors of a few years ago that trumpeted company longevity as the ultimate goal. Unfortunately for that crowd, &quot;Creative Destruction&quot; presents its case backed up by something the &quot;built-to-last&quot; case lacked -- comprehensive data -- and the data strongly suggest that companies built for longevity consistently under perform the market in shareholder value creation.<br />What is very clear from the data is that value creation is driven by innovation -- and the innovation tends to come from new entrants. This key point is a validation, through enhanced quantification, of Clayton Christensen's views on the problem of corporate incumbency. What is also clear is that the transition period between new entrant and incumbent is increasingly compressed. Fifty years ago an innovative new business model might have been good for above average returns of a couple of decades -- now perhaps five years is a more realistic outcome.  There clearly are examples, though the exception rather than the rule, of companies reinventing themselves in the quest for superior value. Enron is such an example, as is Corning. Schwab is another example. Common characteristics of these re-inventors is that they try a lot of things and they fail a lot -- but they know how to manage the failures and they know how to really ride the winners.<br />This book should also give pause to any executive who, having recently witnessed the demise of many Internet-based models, is feeling more secure. The reality is that the first wave of barbarians may have been fended off, but they will be back, stronger and smarter than ever . . .	2001-04-23
US	52029544	R3CKSX7PCS3F5I	0471410470	414880513	Radical E : From GE to Enron Lessons on How to Rule the Web	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Excellent, Refreshing and Motivational	An excellent practical book, full of inspiring case studies told with eloquence and pace. This is not a high level strategy model book, it is book about those who have a vision and are executing on it by using the web in a number of ways. The 10 case studies illustrate these key points:<br />  1. The CEO Must Lead the Way to E-business<br />2. Launch and Learn<br />3. Reward the Nuts and Dissidents<br />4. Use the Web to Build a Community around Your Brand<br />5. The Internet Gives You the Power to Control the Customer Experience<br />6. The Business Use of the Internet Is to Incease Profits  7. Seek Agility over Speed<br />8. Expectations Are Higher on the Web, so Failure to Deliver Is More Destructive to Your Business<br />9. It Doesn't matter Whether You Develop or Acquire the Needed Technology as Long as You Have It<br />10. Seek Disruptive Customers Who Lead You to Needed Change and Advancement<br />The case studies are from companies such as SouthWest Airlines, Enron, Nortel, Progressive and Victoria's Secret. There is much to learn from this book, and much to inspire. Fast paced read, excellent for the plane and as motivation to think differently about your companies e-business efforts.<br />I really enjoyed this book, though to some it might not be saying anything that much different than what we all should know. These examples though show people who have really executed on their visions and as such are priceless.	2001-04-23
US	52029544	RU886I0E68FI3	0875847196	618483691	Human Resource Champions	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Excellent Read	The management of human resources, says the author, holds the key to an organization's future success. HR people serve as strategic players, administrative experts, employee champions and change agents. Full of illustrations and examples from dozens of companies, this book show how HR professionals can operate in all four areas simultaneously.<br />This book is highly recommended to all HR people at all levels, and will help non HR professionals understand the importance of HR issues within corporations, and see how HR is really a strategic function.	2001-04-18
US	52029544	RMQE10EL1LHSJ	0875849377	355869397	Unchained Value: The New Logic of Digital Business	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Looking to transform traditional businesses over time?	While the New Economy has forced businesses, large and small, to re-evaluate their core value proposition, few have been able to truly leverage the internet to enable greater economic value. It seems that managers are promoting all things &quot;e&quot;, but internet initiatives rarely yield any added value. In Unchained Value, Internet expert Mary Cronin argues that these corporations will fail at e-business as long as they continue to use the traditional value chain as the strategic model for the enterprise. She introduces a new model based on the Traci model for organizations which she calls the digital value system -focused not on static, internally focused &quot;chains&quot; but on dynamic, external webs of relationships that take full advantage of the power, flexibility, and opportunity of the digital arena. According to Cronin, four factors define the new value system of digital businesses: (1) collaborating with multiple players outside the firm based on real time information pooling; (2) mastering dynamic pricing for digital marketplaces; (3) establishing customer trust and lifetime increasing returns through a proactive balance of privacy and personalization; and (4) providing essential, relationship-based online services that can be delivered to customers on the fly.<br />This book will be useful to those executives who are looking to transform traditional business over longer cycles than perhaps the usual 'must do it now or die' hype. But for those who have read most of the books around on the e-revolution , skip this one you won't learn much new.	2001-04-13
US	52029544	R31R90LBRNSIAJ	1578511240	580400188	The Knowing-Doing Gap: How Smart Companies Turn Knowledge into Action	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Valuable lessons to be learnt	The key question this book addresses is: &quot;given that knowledge of best practices is actually nearly ubiquitous, why is it that so few organizations are able to actually implement these practices?&quot;. Pfeffer and Sutton itemize some of the the key reasons, which are behavioral in nature. For example, many business cultures implicitly reward criticism of ideas and decisions more than the actual implementation of ideas. This produces a &quot;do-nothing&quot; situation. Also talking is often rewarded more than the actual doing. Failure of leaders to &quot;walk the talk&quot; is another key reason for failure to do. The book outlines some common sense approaches to overcome these barriers to action -- the key is to choose and retain the kind of people that are willing to cooperate and share knowledge, and to put in place metrics and human performance systems that encourage these behaviors. This book is a valuable complement to IT-driven based approaches to knowledge management, which by themselves are typically insufficient to yield real results.	2001-04-13
US	52029544	RVL7DDRRCU2N7	0471121045	178332963	Against the Gods: The Remarkable Story of Risk	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good overview of probability theory	The sweeping story of probability and the related concept of risk. Interestingly, the modern notion of probablity was really not &quot;invented&quot; until the Renaissance. This fact hints at the fact that the concept is not intuitively obvious, and explains why people often behave in ways that are not consistent with basic probability theory itself. Bernstein covers how the modern notion evolved, and how it grew to be such an integral part of modern financial theory, including concepts such as diversification, portfolio insurance, and the advent of derivatives. Also covered are aspects of behavioral finance -- driven by the sometimes peculiar decisioning approaches of the human mind. This is an excellent book for any executive who is interested in decision making in general, as well as financially-related decisions.	2001-04-13
US	52029544	R1OC3Q37DMZSTN	0823039072	292989853	Pastel for the Serious Beginner: Basic Lessons in Becoming a Good Painter	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Excellent Book	I really enjoy reading this book. Larry is a master pastellist with over 30 years of experience. His enthusiasm and spirit really come across in this book. He walks you through his recommendations for paper selection, pastels and studio set-up. He provides some step-by-step illustrations working from sketches to completed illustrations in still lifes, landscapes and potraits which serve as excellent examples.	2001-03-18
US	52029544	R1VTEMD64OG55X	1578511895	755092249	Leading the Revolution	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Nothing new here - but beautifully formatted book	Hamel's latest book contains a few important ideas, such as the central importance of business concept innovation. However, the constant refrain of \\"innovate, innovate, innovate!\\" is hardly new to anyone familiar with works such as Built to Last, and The Age of Unreason. Aimed at anyone wanting to be a business revolutionary, including \\"gray-haired revolutionaries\\" in sleepy old companies, this book offers a few useful ways of thinking and steps to take to shake up your business. However, much of the useful content can be found in Hamel's recent HBR articles, and the excessively breezy writing style triumphs over actionable content. Those most attracted to this book will find the least in it, whereas those most in need of its message will be unlikely to pick it up.	2000-10-18
US	52029544	R3DZKNX6OMFBQN	0694523372	851711421	Living on the Fault Line	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Well worth the read!	Geoffrey Moore's latest book should be required reading for all executives in the age of the Internet. Rather than filling out a theoretically weak book with numerous examples, or building a detailed theory which cannot be  applied, Moore has produced a brilliant work of practical business theory.  Drawing on and extending his work in Crossing the Chasm, Inside the  Tornado, and The Gorilla Game, Moore looks at various stages in the  development of businesses, how to manage for shareholder value, how to  create and sustain competitive advantage, and how companies with diverse  cultures can effectively overcome the innovator's dilemma. Any executive  feeling threatened by the Internet, or wishing to take full advantage of  discontinuous innovations, should read this book.	2000-07-16
US	52029544	R2EFKM3CCUUSU9	0385483821	715348997	Only the Paranoid Survive: How to Exploit the Crisis Points That Challenge Every Company	Books	5	20	26	N	N	Candid and truthfull	This book is an enjoyable read that is written by the CEO of Intel, this book is noteworthy in that it describes in detail a rare event: the successful change in business models of an already large and successful  company. Grove describes the influences of the overall business environment  (and in particular addresses the concept of a &quot;strategic inflection  point&quot;), the political dynamics and drama within Intel, and a candid  view of what went on in his own head as Intel faced a crisis that could  well have ended in disaster rather than triumph. Grove does a great service  to other executives by reflecting on what he learned from this and related  events at Intel.  There is much to learn from here.	2000-05-14
US	52029544	R3MY2GMYRV201B	0066619874	660968240	The Visionary's Handbook: Nine Paradoxes That Will Shape the Future of Your Business	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Food for thought	I enjoyed the subject matter of this book though stylistically it did strike me as a little strange. If you haven't read the top 10 recent bestsellers (Innovator's Dilemna, Serious Play and books of that ilk) then  this book will serve you well in getting you rapidly up to speed. Think of  it as a exceutive summary of those. If you have read them, there is  something to be gained in seeing all the 'paradoxes' placed side by side to  consider. This would be excellent if you are in a scenario planning type  exercise or want a better treatment on how you should 'model' the future.  The authors attempt to engage the reader through a series of thought  exercises about yourself (life, career etc) in order to give you some  material to apply the paradigm shifts they detail. Though I wholeheartedly  applaud them trying to use something other than the 'usual' case studies of  Dell, Amazon etc etc, I don't think this 'personal' approach works. I just  found it annoying but others who are looking to evaluate themselves might  not. However those sections are easily skipped over and key points are  succintly and well written for a quick and thought-provoking read for the  business audience.	2000-05-05
US	52029544	R13ERGOHVNKO6C	0738202444	559170405	The Cluetrain Manifesto	Books	5	1	1	N	N	And now for something completely different...	This is about as far away from a traditonal business book as you can get. The Cluetrain Manifesto is about the end of business as usual and the role of the Internet as the empowerer to the masses. It whitewashes the world that traditional marketing and advertising paint. The authors clearly  present a simple choice to businessmen. Ride the Cluetrain, understand that  markets are conversations, and that customers and workers will have these  conversations whether you like it or not, or lose your business. The book  is written in an anecdotal fashion and as such some of it should be taken  with a pinch of salt. An interesting and provocative read - not for the  faint hearted or unimaginative.	2000-03-20
US	52029544	R1OQ0M1A8C423J	0738202444	559170405	The Cluetrain Manifesto	Books	5	7	7	N	N	And now for something completely different...	This is about as far away from a traditonal business book as you can get. The Cluetrain Manifesto is about the end of business as usual and the role  of the Internet as the empowerer to the masses. It whitewashes the world  that traditional marketing and advertising paint. The authors clearly  present a simple choice to businessmen. Ride the Cluetrain, understand that  markets are conversations, and that customers and workers will have these  conversations whether you like it or not, or lose your business. The book  is written in an anecdotal fashion and as such some of it should be taken  with a pinch of salt. An interesting and provocative read - not for the  faint hearted or unimaginative.	2000-03-07
US	52029544	R1LRQ262VECRVI	0201339870	235722230	Blur: The Speed of Change In the Connected Economy	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Enjoyed reading - much to my surprise...	If you are looking for a good fast read about the New Economy and a high level primer on what it means for you I would recommend Blur. Despite a few commercials in there for E&amp;Y's services and the jargon of the 'blur' it  is a solid read. Though it is not something that will help you stratgically  change your business, sections on how employees will be valued in the  future ring true and how companies will have to bend over backwards in the  future to really serve the customer. This book is good to read if you want  to get an idea of what will happen at a high level to society, people,  working habits and business. Its also good to have around if you are  thinking about your resume...	2000-02-16
US	52029544	RICRDGOQ9KCVA	0071352422	401167209	Net Ready	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Net Toolkit	The authors are directors of Cisco System's Internet Business Solutions Group, and have brought to bear insights from their wide-ranging and leading edge consulting experiences in this invaluable guide. Comprehensive  in scope, \\"Net Ready\\" addresses nearly every aspect of developing  successful new economy business models. In addition to providing valuable  strategic concepts, the book also provides a toolkit that can be  effectively employed in business strategy workshop settings. There is also  a chapter that provides behind-the-scenes insights into the phenomenal  story of how Cisco has so rapidly grown into the world's second most  valuable company.	2000-02-14
US	52029544	RSNWOWRB3OEDL	0684841487	896720440	Competitive Strategy: Techniques for Analyzing Industries and Competitors	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Still going strong and worth the read...	This is Porter's classic work on business strategy, and the bible of the positioning school of strategy.  Sure, the field of strategy has progressed significantly over the past two decades, but is &quot;Competitive Strategy&quot; therefore obsolete?  Absolutely not!  The models are still  valid and highly relevant -- they just need to be augmented with additional  new economy strategic concepts.  To master a subject one must understand it  in many different ways, and so every serious strategist must thoroughly  digest this work.	2000-02-12
US	52029544	R3EO7FZDPGEEU9	0684841460	927601731	Competitive Advantage: Creating and Sustaining Superior Performance	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The orginal thought that launched a thousand businesses...	Among other concepts, this is the work that introduced the notion of &quot;value chain&quot; -- a concept that helped launch a thousand reengineering initiatives, some of which actually created value!  Certainly more recent models associated with business networks and ecosystem  metaphors have significantly progressed beyond Porter's basic value chain  concept -- nevertheless, the original is worth thoroughly understanding.  	2000-02-12
US	52029544	R2DM3IQ12B31RY	0884270610	377698726	The Goal: A Process of Ongoing Improvement	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Applicable to all sorts of processes...	This is a novel about a manufacturing plant, of all things! Goldratt uses a novel format to provide a tutorial in systems (and systematic) thinking about business. The core point of the book is perhaps the single most important concept for executives to master: that to improve business performance, one must continuously monitor for bottlenecks in the  associated business systems, and concentrate resources on debottlenecking  these areas.  Work on the bottlenecks!  It seems so simple, but it is so  often not addressed, and is a chronic cause of underperformance. Goldratt  also demonstrates why getting the performance metrics right is absolutely  critical.  This book is just as relevant now as ever -- perhaps even more  so since the concepts can be effectively applied to nearly all business  processes, not just manufacturing, which was the original focus.	2000-02-12
US	52029544	RR30Y70C4FK5E	0875848893	629268185	Net Worth: Shaping Markets When Customers Make the Rules	Books	3	2	6	N	N	A vision of how it could be...	This is a book which presents a vision of the future and the way business will be done. It is not a 'best practice' advice giver, but a scenario of consumerism. At one end, the poor consumer faces a bewildering array of goods and services. On the other, vendors contend with a diverse and  fragmented marketplace that makes finding the right set of customers akin  to finding the proverbial needle in the haystack. And in between are the  billions misspent on muffed purchases and broken marketing campaigns that  serve only to stuff mailboxes and alienate the very customers that vendors  are trying to attract. The rise of e-commerce has only intensified the  problem by offering consumers even greater choice and vendors more  competition. John Hagel and Marc Singer think they've got a better idea,  and in Net Worth, they present an online scenario that would end this chaos  and give both customers and vendors what they really want.	2000-02-12
US	52029544	RUZ8FQ758J4HT	0465037380	952919077	Knowledge And Decisions	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Quieten the confusion...	Thomas Sowell is a masterful economist and social theorist, and this may be his greatest work.  Sowell expertly links the two broad topics of decision making and knowledge in a highly expansive way.  This book was published in 1980, but is a much stronger treatment of the role of  knowledge (and learning) than many of the more recent, highly confused  works on knowledge management.  This book is quite heavy reading, and is  most appropriate for business knowledge strategists, etc.  Much of the book  addresses governmental policy issues related to decisions and knowledge,  and therefore is also highly relevant to policy makers.  	2000-02-12
US	52029544	R10TWBUOO2GS4	087584877X	859871675	Blown to Bits: How the New Economics of Information Transforms Strategy	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Ignore the forces outlined in this book at your peril!	If you are looking for a discussion of the new vs old economy, this is the book for you. It outlines the forces not in terms of technology which so many e-business books are doing now but instead in a richness-reach  framework which talks about customers. It explores the forces which are at  work affecting established mature companies and how they must change and  newer dot com companies which must evolve. This would be a good read over  the holiday period to mull over and incorporate into your strategic  thinking for next year.	1999-12-08
