US	52027319	RNGIROMSW0WIJ	0312303467	15622163	Bet Me	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	Excellent Crusie Sample	The only problem I had with this book, personally, is that I can't help but compare it with Welcome to Temptation, which is the best Crusie book out there, bar none, and perhaps the best witty romantic contemporary fiction novel available, period.<br />However, Bet Me has its own charm.  Min Dobbs, our plump, witty heroine, is conflicted about accepting the attentions from Cal Morrisey, a red hot training seminar maven who, under normal circumstances, would be out of her league.  However, Cal's interest is piqued when Min's smarmy ex-boyfriend points her out and initiates a bet that Cal can &quot;get&quot; Min within a month... and Min overhears their exchange.<br />Crusie shines in the drafting of outrageous characters (this time, in the form of Min's mother, a cluelessly social-climbing barracuda; her and Cal's friends, and a cat named Elvis... not for this particular volume the ever-present Crusie dog... for me, vive la difference!).  Characters are the key for this novel, and each one sparks independently of the others.  Together, they combust.  Min and Cal work out the kinks in their pseudo-but-evolving relationship in the face of considerable and hilarious impediments.<br />As always, Crusie relies on cleverness, wit, and fundamental humor, plus generous italicized thought revelations, to create depth in her story.  However, Min's comparative ordinariness is the single most outstanding component of this book; she's round, professionally accomplished, entrenched in a weird family, doesn't want kids... Min is a real woman (finally!); not for this story an impossibly slim, impossibly beautiful, impossibly exquisitely heartstricken young thing who's dying to fall in love with the right man and crank out babies in ostensible sequels that would be too boring to read.<br />This book is not boring.<br />If you like Crusie, this is a great book for you... it's a solid effort of an increasingly mature writer with growing mastery over her genre.	2004-02-22
US	52027319	R2693T436YRYTT	0312983492	973796554	Don't Tempt Me (Pearl Island Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	It's good, but....	This is a good book, but after reading its predecessors, I found it predictable and somewhat disappointing.<br />The book reprises the St. Clair family of Galveston Bay and their new Pearl Island Inn Bed and Breakfast, as initiated by youngest sister Rory in the romantic novel Falling for You and realized in companion book Lead Me On, featuring middle sister Allison.  This latest installment highlights the romantic adventures of brother Adrian, who's somewhat short-sightedly ignoring his genuine if infatuated feelings for Jackie, a quick young sprite helping the St. Clair siblings realize a family dream of recovering some family heirlooms from a shipwreck at the bottom of the bay.<br />Somehow, Adrian seems somewhat foolish in this missive.  He's a grown man who helped raise his sisters, yet he's curiously relationship-phobic, as is Jackie.  How different a story this wouuld be had Adrian been willing to offer Jackie commitment and permanence right off the bat, thereby forcing her to confront her own insecurities and retain focus as the story's major, dynamic character.  However, Ortolon tries to make all characters all things, and somehow, the book lacks the sparkle, romance, and charm of the prequels.<br />Jackie's own storyline, involving her ne'er-do-well father and &quot;mother-lite&quot; also take predictable turns; Ortolon might be stronger in the areas of character development than plot, but this time, the plot's simplicity (and by that I don't mean &quot;straightforward&quot;) is rather puzzling.<br />Don't get me wrong... I'm glad I bought it, and I have enjoyed reading it, but in the context of its own series, I find this book the weakest link.	2004-02-14
US	52027319	R3N8INDM67AUSG	0805065075	842956406	"G" Is for Grafton: The World of Kinsey Millhone	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Essential Kinsey Millhone	The authors should retitle the book The Essential Kinsey Millhone! They have done a thorough and masterful job deconstructing the heroine of Sue Grafton's successful detective series, analyzing her traits (both physical and spiritual), her preferences, her work habits, her milieu, and her history. This book does what similar companion books somehow fail to do, presenting Kinsey in a logically organized snapshot that somehow embraces every facet of her contradictory and compelling character.<br />Reading this book is like finding a treasure chest of information on someone you only thought that you knew well.<br />If anyone has left a negative review, I would attribute their disenchantment to a disparity between the reader's own expectations and the structure or function of this book. In other words, dissatisfied readers must have expected or desired something other than an impossibly thorough, finely tuned, extraordinarily detailed, carefully categorized, and fully documented dossier on the details that turn Kinsey from a two-dimensional paper heroine into Grafton's virtually three-dimensional creation.<br />I will grant that the meticulousness of the case study could become tiresome for someone only lukewarm about Kinsey.  Mild fans beware!  However, for the many readers who wait eagerly for the next installment of the alphabet series, your satisfaction with this companion book is all but guaranteed. I myself was intrigued by the relevant minutiae that abounded page by page, and I approached the end of the book with thrill as well with regret; I hope the authors continue expanding their study as Grafton begins the last third of the series.<br />This document gives blood and bone to a fictitious series of narrative mysteries, and it's a joy to read!	2004-01-19
US	52027319	R31A0XK9LHRRNR	006621369X	690812118	Sweet Caroline: Last Child of Camelot	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Somewhat Redundant	I am a fan of Christopher Andersen's writing, and this book is a well crafted example of what he does biographically.  He chronicles Caroline's life with clarity, insight, and compassion.  With that said, I took off one star for something beyond his control.  The scope of this book embodies so much already-traveled ground as to render it somewhat redundant.<br />Caroline Kennedy is a compelling figure more as the daughter of Jack and Jackie than any significant personal merit.  Obviously, she's an intelligent, self-disciplined, and accomplished woman in her own right, but no more so than hundreds if not thousands of equally accomplished legal and literary American minds.  Therefore, the fact remains that had she been the child of any other set of parents in any other family, the world at large would bear no interest in her personal story.<br />She herself never entered public life politically and has avoided courtship of the press on most levels, unlike the other members of her immediate family.  Caroline has lived a life quite successfully below the radar of Jack, Jackie, and John, and her willingness to wave the Kennedy flag in recent years is quite am understandable move for the sole remaining member -- and current standard-bearer -- of Camelot.<br />I guess, basically, this is a well-written account of a regular person whose most remarkable accomplishment has been retaining her Regular Person status among some truly iconic figures with whom she shared a last name.  The fact that she's so good at being \\"regular\\" despite the considerable losses she's borne is remarkable itself, but Caroline is a banner-waver, not a trailblazer, and reading the story of her life is akin to reading the stories of myriad other more signficiantly powerful Kennedy lives.  It's a tale retold, but it's retold well enough.	2004-01-03
US	52027319	R3SFU4NDGWZ040	0312307322	642105392	The Unofficial Patricia Cornwell Companion: A Guide to the Bestselling Author's Life and Work	Books	3	15	15	N	N	Good for Hard Core Fans, a Pass for the Mildly Interested	This book does well what it does, which isn't much.  I received it as a Christmas 2003 gift, and while I'm happy to have it, I will admit quite readily to its limitations.<br />That is, for those like me (avid readers and fans of Cornwell BOOKS -- with maybe a vague curiosity in the author of the work), do we really need a companion book that's 50% summaries of books we've already read and 50% information that we've already seen or read in the media?  Not really.<br />However, for someone who's insatiably interested in authors as people, in tracking the progress of popular writers from obscurity to surpassing success, or requiring (for whatever reason) a nutshell expression of the literary and public interface of Patricia Cornwell, then this book is the ideal.<br />The thing is, the book is really detailed in its provision of information... there are glossaries of terms Cornwell uses in her books, reviews of the books, published interviews with Cornwell, and the aforementioned summaries of all of her novels through Jack the Ripper: Case Closed.  I learned a little more about her as a person, but mostly, the book asserts what I already knew.  She is reclusive -- even shy -- by nature, passionate about helping others, and intrinsically private.<br />Frankly, there's an awful lot of Cornwell in her novels, and perhaps it's through them that it's most possible to get to know her.	2003-12-28
US	52027319	R1NAWO9YNBEACA	0375414053	271266648	I Don't Know How She Does It: The Life of Kate Reddy, Working Mother	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Really Enjoyable!	I paid full price for this book at an airport bookstore, and despite the disconcerting expense, the book did a stellar job of distracting me on my flight.  Never fond of flying, I was quite comfortable and happy while traipsing through the life of Kate Reddy, British woman, wife, mother of a five year old daughter and infant son -- and investment fund manager.<br />What I found most interesting was Kate's imperviousness to her family's misery, and her own, as she routinely misses the children's milestones and avoids intimacy with her husband, all the while refusing to cede any authority or control that comes with the title of \\"Mom.\\"  While the story unfolds in a jolly and humorous style, it's apparent that no one is happy, and she herself is merely another rat in the rat race, nowhere near as fulfulled as she thinks.<br />I found myself rooting for her to quit her job and stop the grief she was foisting on everyone.  However, she claimed throughout the story that giving up her job -- her one source of control, satisfaction, self-hood -- would drive her mad.  Maybe she just wasn't seeing that she was, in fact, ALREADY mad?<br />So then I wondered, why doesn't her HUSBAND quit HIS job?  The family was desperate for a full-time adult, and he earned somewhat less than his fund-managing wife.  Wouldn't it be a natural solution for \\"dad\\" to stay home? However, the husband is poster boy for \\"Incompetent Dad/Husband\\" in the style of 80's TV sitcoms, where dads knew nothing, and families routinely outsmarted them.  His fondest wish is for a woman who stays home, cleans, raises his children, and dons provocative lingerie after hours, although he's smart enough not to say so.  However sadly obvious that the children are missing the thoughtful attention of their parents, the family never even discussed full time fatherhood as an option to solve their problems.<br />Anyway, eventually Kate experiences an epiphany, and the story shifts from pathetically sad-yet-funny to proactively problem-solving.  I appreciated the long overdue climax, and I would recommend this book to any woman who honestly and sincerely doesn't HAVE to work quite honestly in order to feed her children.vely problem-solving.  I appreciated the long overdue climax, and I would recommend this book to any woman who honestly and sincerely doesn't HAVE to work quite honestly in order to feed her children.	2003-12-21
US	52027319	R2MBCT662S6NAG	0440221471	692576280	The Runaway Jury	Books	3	2	3	N	N	It Goes Where All Grisham Has Gone Before	This is a good book.  Fine plot.  Great pacing, and wonderful, creepy, secretive characters.<br />In fact, it's almost exactly like all other Grisham courtroom dramas.  Oh, the focus is different, and the particulars have changed, but in essence, the same tale retold... few people fighing for what's right (if not necessarily legal) in the face of bureaucratic mercenaries.<br />If you like The Firm, The Rainmaker, The Pelican Brief, The Partner, The Client, and most other Grisham standbys (notable exceptions to this stellar but repetitive list would include A Painted House and The Street Lawyer, both of which I found refreshing fare from Grisham), you will like The Runaway Jury.  It might not surprise you.  It might not challenge you.  But it should amuse you, and maybe that's all it has to do.	2003-11-29
US	52027319	R138GILKY30M81	0399150897	362587713	Blow Fly	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Unusual and Disconcerting	First, let me say that I consider Kay Scarpetta practically a three dimensional person.  I am a Cornwell advocate!  However, in the interests of honesty, I must confess that I have found this book both challenging and inconsistent.  For the die-hard Cornwell fan, back up and prepare yourself!<br />For the Unitiated Cornwell, PLEASE don't read this book first.<br />In this book, Scarpetta relinquishes the first-person voice, so we see her traipse through baggage relating to the serial killer Jean-Baptiste Chandonne (I couldn't resist spelling that name out) and his evil brother Jay Talley (aka Jean-Paul).  The  third-person omnisicient shifts without warning among a variety of characters, including the bad guys and some not-wholly-unanticipated surprise characters.  While necessary for plot development, this strategy might render some die-hard Scarpetta allies confused and uncomfortable.  We are used to Kay, her ruminations and rationalizations... without them, this book doesn't seem quite a companion of the series.<br />Giving Cornwell the benefit of the doubt, how else can we the reader know what Jay Talley is up to?  Where he is?  How else can we understand the twisted motivations that fuel his freakish brother, imprisoned on death row?  There are numerous and incredibly complicated forces at work in this novel... so change is required... but the changes, somehow, fail to connect Scarpetta to her reader.  In a way, it's not a book about Scarpetta so much as the circumstances at which she finds her personal and professional life at this point.<br />Essentially, I find this book fuzzy in its logic and somewhat confusing.  I don't understand how some parts of the plot fit together, and I HAVE read all of the other books -- I cannot imagine the confusion of a newcomer to this series!  It's like Cornwell has fallen into the trap of melodrama... the engaging clarity and focus of Postmortem (the series springboard) has become mired in innumerable complexities, and the essential simplicity of storytelling is lost... though I dare not fear it's lost forever.<br />I can't give away the novel's Big Surprise (although I see that many other reviewers have), but once you read the book for yourself, consider that this Big Surprise is a huge letdown.  I cannot imagine that Cornwell planned ahead to blindside her audience as she did with this Big Surprise.  How incredibly unfair is that, when a running theme throught the series is accepting inevitability?  Dealing with loss?  Anyone who read the prequel The Last Precinct will remember with poignant clarity Kay's confidences with her trusted friend and colleague Anna, confidences which did more to paint Scarpetta in human form than any of the predessor stories alone or combined... and it was all for naught?<br />Somehow, I find this novel less believable or engaging than other Cornwell books.  This admission pains me; I am one of the few fans of Scarpetta's series with Jim Brazil and Judy Hammer.  In those books, at least I thought I understood her purpose and goals for writing.  Alas, in this one, I felt no such comfort.<br />With all of this being said, for the true Cornwell fan, Blow Fly is a must read.sential simplicity of storytelling is lost... though I dare not fear it's lost forever.<br />I can't give away the novel's Big Surprise (although I see that many other reviewers have), but once you read the book for yourself, consider that this Big Surprise is a huge letdown.  I cannot imagine that Cornwell planned ahead to blindside her audience as she did with this Big Surprise.  How incredibly unfair is that, when a running theme throught the series is accepting inevitability?  Dealing with loss?  Anyone who read the prequel The Last Precinct will remember with poignant clarity Kay's confidences with her trusted friend and colleague Anna, confidences which did more to paint Scarpetta in human form than any of the predessor stories alone or combined... and it was all for naught?  <br />Somehow, I find this novel less believable or engaging than other Cornwell books.  This admission pains me; I am one of the few fans of Scarpetta's series with Jim Brazil and Judy Hammer.  In those books, at least I thought I understood her purpose and goals for writing.  Alas, in this one, I felt no such comfort.<br />With all of this being said, for the true Cornwell fan, Blow Fly is a must read.	2003-10-21
US	52027319	R2IZQ3GHFXE9UO	0312983336	196428300	I Think I Love You	Books	3	35	49	N	N	I wish I liked it more.  *sigh*	I picked up this novel after reading a charming but uncomplicated romantic-comedy novel by the same author.  However, this particular book has significant depth and authenticity; my previous experience with this author gave no clue that she could write a book such as this one.<br />While the author may have meant for this novel to be funny, it is, in my opinion, more of a straight fiction book.  The story concerns a highly dysfunctional North Carolina family of three illegitimate adult daughters, their bohemian parents, a live-in-boyfriend/ former fiance/ object of teenage desire all wound up in one dubiously deserving man, an uncle with political aspirations -- and his late wife, who was murdered while the girls were still in the teens, and whose murder the trio unfortunately witnessed.<br />As is usual in any fiction book, a problem arises... in this book, about five problems arise concurrently.  First, the bohemian parents, while never married, have separated, necessitating the liqidation of their antiques business.  Eldest Daughter is dodging the angry wife of her latest conquest.  Youngest Daughter is dodging the rather psychotic aforementioned live-in boyfriend.  The sisters are askance at a resurgence of interest in their late aunt's murder.  And Middle Daughter, the \\"good child,\\" is cajoled into help liquidate the antiques store, assisting a rather attractive and engaging appraiser hired by her mother.<br />In a masterful and clever way, the stories converge for an ending that's satisfying as it leaves positively no loose ends.  I can't imagine the work and effort that went into this novel.<br />Now, I took off two stars because IN SPITE of everything, I had next to no affinity for these characters.  Mostly, I wanted to spank them, or I wished that someone would stand up and say, \\"Hey, grownups don't act like this\\" and walk out.  The Middle Daughter is wishy washy, the oldest and youngest are harpies, the parents are infantile, and the peripheral characters are pure stock.  The only one who's vaguely interesting on his own is the engaging antiques appraiser... he'd be a good candidate to walk out.  Instead, throughout the story he's vaguely amused.<br />I think this a book downright EXCELLENT for plot and mediocre for character... depending on your tastes, this could be a sure bet for you.s are pure stock.  The only one who's vaguely interesting on his own is the engaging antiques appraiser... he'd be a good candidate to walk out.  Instead, throughout the story he's vaguely amused.<br />I think this a book downright EXCELLENT for plot and mediocre for character... depending on your tastes, this could be a sure bet for you.	2003-08-31
US	52027319	R4W3C8AXUFINE	0764553313	944794070	Home Buying For Dummies	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Half of Your Home-Buying Needs	This book, when coupled with a reliable real-estate agent (and it explains to you how to FIND a reliable one) should meet the needs of most newcomers to the real estate market.<br />I didn't have the faintest idea of how to buy a home when I purchased this book, and it at least defined for me many new terms I heard winging around (escrow, closing costs, appraisal, closing date, etc.) as well as what role those mysterious qualities would play in the homebuying odyssey and their effect on the outcome.  Its explanations were sufficiently simple, yet detailed enough, to meet my needs.  It also explained certain factors to consider when buying a dwelling (why certain KINDS of homes might suit some better than others -- which I had never considered in the face of my solidly middle-class upbringing, whether certain homes were actually affordable or mirages of affordability, and what emotions to anticipate and handle maturely during the entire process).<br />I think the book was worth it.  I even lent it to a friend who used it for her own home-buying experience, and she found it to be helpful.  Also, I have read through it again when we considered refinancing, wondered if certain home-improvements might be tax deductible, and whether it might be time to consider moving.  It's remained a dynamic part of our home library... what further recommendation could I possibly make?	2003-08-19
US	52027319	R1GJG675Q3111K	0804119996	107020596	Miss Match	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good with a Big Flaw	Let me say in the interests of fairness that the book has a nice little plot with intriguing characters that are easy to like.  Why, then, did I give it only three stars?  I can answer that in one word:  COMMERCIALS.<br />The book has so much going for it that its constant stream of consumerism, akin to commercials on a TV show, is not only distracting but insulting.  What do I mean?  Well, the characters are educated and can use words of more than three syllables.  Wonderful!  It's hard to find intelligent characters in the romantic fiction genre.  Some of their situations are inventive, if not outright refreshing.  The characters themselves are well-drawn, as though the author created full personalities as opposed to relying on stock-in-trade archetypes.<br />However, the myriad NAME DROPPING in this book is enough to make me resell it in a used book store!  Do we really care that our heroine uses MAC cosmetics?  Likes Cristal champagne?  Can discuss designers as easily as most folks rattle off their order in a Wendy's drive-through?  The cultural references are everywhere, and they're all high-dollar, superfluous, and annoying references.  Such details make it hard for me to find an affinity with any of the characters.  Most people -- even those who value the RIGHT restaurants and the RIGHT gyms and the RIGHT careers -- don't even about, let alone TALK about, such things half as much as the characters in this book.  Their doing so makes them seem shallow, when in every other way they're not.<br />If it's possible for you to ignore this part of the story, then read it, because the rest of it is good.  However, since I already mentioned it, it may be impossible to ignore.  I'm sorry that the writer or editor didn't make this minor alteration that would have improved the story immeasurably.	2003-08-15
US	52027319	R3IQQQWM4KBSTW	0821772414	259861488	Catch of the Day (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Positively Endearing	For fans of modern romantic fiction, this book is a must-read!<br />While it includes the fairly typical \\"romance\\" inherent to the genre, something altogether different makes it irresistibly charming: the creative and active interplay between a wide variety of characters, all of whom are interesting and full-bodied in their own right.<br />Our heroine, Gwen, has moves to Maine from Maryland to open her own restaurant.  There, she encounters a band of mostly-male locals who range in age from early twentysomething to  geriatric.  All have one thing in common -- utter adoration of this young, pert, classy young woman who's promised to cook them something OTHER than lobster once her restaurant opens.  When Gwen offers to let the little fan-club act as unofficial taste-testers ahead of the restaurant's opening (just to ensure that she's able to satisfy the tastes and expectations of the community), the men practically start to drool.  Make sure you eat before you read or you'll find yourself nibbling insatiably!  Not since Dickens' David Copperfield is there so much good eating in a book.<br />However, as is required in this genre, Gwen has eyes for just one of the men, and his eyes are firmly fastened on her despite the rather predictable issues that arise to prolong their eventual union.<br />Still, everyone from the restaurant's ne'er do well waitress to the grandfather (!) of the male lead to the recently crowned sous-chef is intriguing, witty, and altogether satisfying... worthy of a story in his or her own right.  Evanik reprised some of these characters in this novel's companion book, Christmas on Conrad Street, which is a worthwile read all on its own.<br />Read it!  You won't be disappointed.	2003-08-10
US	52027319	R2IUDHQY3K8QPQ	0380816830	639000625	Something Wild	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Almost Five Stars	For those of you out there who like romantic fiction but whose sensibilities are alerted by the preponderance of premarital bumping and grinding, this book is for you!<br />The characters are believable with understandable frailties -- nothing too extreme or exotic -- and the author manages to craft a story that's not, in the words of my good friend, &quot;too cartoony.&quot;  The story reprises some characters from the books Wife for a Day and Stuck on You, but this particular story somehow achieves a more realistic and sensitive story, although it does contain its share of whimsy.<br />The story concerns Chastity Wilde, Vegas showgirl, and Mike Flynn, a &quot;cowboy preacher&quot; whom she meets whilon a visit with her brother at his in-laws' ranch in Wyoming.  Of course, the story itself is a classic case of &quot;opposites attract,&quot; with the aforementioned twist of (gasp!) religious values as well as (ack!) a woman who has more on her mind than hooking up with a great guy.  The character of Chastity in particular is well-drawn, moving gracefully through an (*passing out*) impressive learning curve as all good round characters should.<br />I removed one star simply because I find Mike Flynn's personal crisis slightly -- just slightly -- over the top.  He's mourning his first wife and dealing with some irrational sense of responsibility for her death.  He's a sensitive man, of course, but he's also intelligent, and I found it hard to imagine that someone would carry around such a load of unjustified guilt for such a long time without figuring out what a waste of energy it is.<br />While this book has prequels, I think it stands fine on its own.  I enjoyed it more than I did its predecessors, and anyone yearning for a sweet story and (finally!) a couple who waits for holy matrimony really ought to check it out.	2003-08-06
US	52027319	R26CG16T3RX3Y5	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	The Best Harry	With sensitivity and depth, Harry Potter finally begins in this fifth book of the series to emerge from his childhood into a multifaceted and dynamic character in his own right.  The continuous fight between Lord Voldemort and The Boy Who Lived reaches greater heights of mystery, action, and desperation in this long-awaited chronicle, just as Harry himself leaves behind the wide-eyed innocent days of his childhood, instead reaching for his emerging young-manhood; this book was definitely worth the wait.<br />However, the story begins with more immediate problems.  Harry, having been cited yet again for using unauthorized magic during his summer holiday, meets at his hearing the most distasteful person of Delores Umbridge, soon to be Hogwarts' new professor for Defense Against the Dark Arts.  Umbridge, who at Hogwarts teaches very little and serves mostly as a Ministry spy, represents for readers the personification of every awful teacher; she is readily familiar and immediately dislikable.<br />Not only that, she persistently and doggedly refuses to acknowledge Voldemort's return to power, spouting only the Ministry's official position that Voldemort remains innocuous, and runs to the Minister of Magic with every little conflict at the school.  Slowly, her power at Hogwarts begins to grow, and correspondingly and most mysteriously, Dumbledore seems to fade into the background. Harry, with his scar \\"pricking\\" and \\"hurting\\" almost continuously, seems to have no one with whom to discuss his fears and what might happen unless all good wizards might themselves to fight Voldemort when he makes his move.<br />He knows that he can trust members of The Order of the Phoenix, an organization of wizards pledged to defend the wizarding world against evil.  Members include, not surprisingly, Albus Dumbledore himself; Professor McGonagall; Harry's godfather Sirius Black; Mr. and Mrs. Weasley; and the former Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Remus Lupin.  More surprisingly, Harry's chief academic nemesis, Severus Snape, is a member, as are some new and refreshing characters.  However, as Professor Umbridge slowly and systematically begins to cut off Hogwarts from the rest of the wizarding world, Harry's chances of getting support and guidance from these reliable adults begins to recede, and he and his friends are left with their own initiative and ingenuity to confront the forces of darkness which rise inevitably against them.<br />The chiefly satisfying elements of this book are, first, its lack of circuitousness.  This book actually uses the \\"wizarding language\\" that most readers learned in the first four books, so the author can throw around references like \\"muggle,\\" \\"squib,\\" \\"Patronus,\\" and \\"alohamora\\" without having to slow down the story.  Second, the story follows an clear plot arc, one in which the careful reader can connect parts right alongside its hero.  Mostly, the story is satisfying because of its answers.  Harry has been waiting for explanations to some fundamental questions about his own life, and in this book, with skill and sensitivity, Harry learns more about the odd connection between Voldemort and himself, and he learns a little more about the destiny into which he was born.<br />This is obviously a book that no Harry Potter fan can miss.  If you are a newcomer to the series, please take the time to read the books in order.  You'll be glad that you did!rry's chief academic nemesis, Severus Snape, is a member, as are some new and refreshing characters.  However, as Professor Umbridge slowly and systematically begins to cut off Hogwarts from the rest of the wizarding world, Harry's chances of getting support and guidance from these reliable adults begins to recede, and he and his friends are left with their own initiative and ingenuity to confront the forces of darkness which rise inevitably against them.<br />The chiefly satisfying elements of this book are, first, its lack of circuitousness.  This book actually uses the \\"wizarding language\\" that most readers learned in the first four books, so the author can throw around references like \\"muggle,\\" \\"squib,\\" \\"Patronus,\\" and \\"alohamora\\" without having to slow down the story.  Second, the story follows an clear plot arc, one in which the careful reader can connect parts right alongside its hero.  Mostly, the story is satisfying because of its answers.  Harry has been waiting for explanations to some fundamental questions about his own life, and in this book, with skill and sensitivity, Harry learns more about the odd connection between Voldemort and himself, and he learns a little more about the destiny into which he was born.<br />This is obviously a book that no Harry Potter fan can miss.  If you are a newcomer to the series, please take the time to read the books in order.  You'll be glad that you did!	2003-06-24
US	52027319	RTKMK0DEUFIEE	1551668653	684993289	Getting Rid Of Bradley	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Charming!	I like Jennifer Cruisie books, which are rather more intelligent romantic fiction than most of the alternatives available right now.  This book is a charming example of what she can do best, which is create believable characters while avoiding stereotype and putting them in believable and authentic situations that somehow retain a sense of humor and sense of the absurd.<br />It is an accomplishment most modern romantic fiction writers somehow avoid, to their eternal detriment.<br />In this particular missive, Cruisie chronicles a take on the time-honored mistaken-identity plot, in which our hapless heroine, recently divorced and swearing off all but the most irrelevantly physical of relationships, gets intertwined with the the town's police officer who's investigating her former husband on charges of embezzlement.  Of course, the two have a disproportionate attraction to each other, which interferes with the task at hand.  Of course, there are myriad opportunities for confusion and conflict.  Of course, this being a Cruisie novel, there is a dog (or, in this case, three dogs, including Heisenburg, the moppish dog who has coined his own joke).<br />This is a great example of escapist modern literature.  While Cruisie might not be Shakespeare or Homer, she aims for another chord altogether... it's a worthwhile, fun, intelligently wrought chord.  Try it!	2003-06-09
US	52027319	R3I287E4CTKXNJ	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Upbeat and Direct	I liked this Grisham book mostly.<br />The story concerns the epiphany of a high-priced and career driven young DC lawyer at the hands of a humble homeless person.  The afternoon when a homeless person called &quot;Mister&quot; holds his law firm hostage, bemoaning the lawyers' exorbitant salaries in the face of utter want and poverty on Washington's streets, our hero hears a chord strike within him, and within a matter of days, he forefeits his home, job, marriage, and lifestyle to become an advocate of the rights of the homeless.<br />I liked this book a good deal because the author uses the first person point of view, which he seldom employs.  It lends the story a certain immediacy and poignancy, even though our hero has a ripe sense of the absurd and humor abounds.  Our hero is easy to like... sort of the way a puppy is easy to like.  How can anyone NOT like someone who gives up a great job and a luxurious lifestyle to fight for society's underdogs?<br />Ideologically, I can't support the morale of the story.  While it may be silly to spend seven dollars on a gourmet coffee or to earn a multimillion dollar salary without donating a large and impossible-to-miss chunk to those less fortunate, there is nothing WRONG with those things.  Someone who makes millions of dollars a year must work terribly hard for it in almost every case.  Grisham's tone says that anyone who earns more than thirty thousand dollars a year should donate the difference to the local soup kitchen or be less than a compassionate human.<br />Also, I have some issues with the hero's marriage, a dead union at the story's outset that leads directly to divorce as he overhauls his lifestyle.  What is the point of the marriage?  It adds nothing to the overall story and could be essentially the same book without it.<br />However, the story is gripping, and it's interesting in a way books seldom are.  It's a book to READ-read, if you know what I mean.  I would recommend it to any Grisham fans, or anyone looking to become one... you'll enjoy it.looking to become one... you'll enjoy it.	2003-06-08
US	52027319	RE4XRFTBY8PP7	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good Until the End	Grisham handles this story with characteristic strength and vividness and winds it up with a disappointing and ineffective ending, which is, unfortunately, becoming equally characteristic.<br />Patrick Lanigan, bilks his law firm out of an exorbitant amount of money, then races away from his unhappy life an even unhappier marriage with gazillions of dollars to hide himself in the wilds of Brazil.  With the foresight and calculation that are the hallmarks of any self-respecting Grisham hero, Lanigan plans and plots to avoid detection and punishment for his behavior and formulates a plan to hide the money should anything happen to him -- which it does, of course, when he's caught by parties interested in reclaiming their money and figuring out the particulars of his escape.<br />Lanigan is an interesting hero, one who reveals information on his own time schedule, not the schedule of his fellow characters or the schedule of his audience.  This strategy makes for compelling storytelling.  It's fascinating to watch this particular yarn unravel, and the characters in Lanigan's life -- his barracuda of an ex-wife, his mysterious and exotic Brazilian co-conspirator, his good-ole-boy American former friends, the ruthless snakes out to make Lanigan suffer to achieve their own ends -- create a sense of immediacy and intrigue since they're just as interesting as Lanigan himself.<br />While the majority of the book is terrific, the end (which occurs suddenly within a few pages) is a real letdown.  Despite its brevity, the end was enough of a disappointment for me to revoke a star.  When you read the story, write me and let me know if you agree!	2003-06-08
US	52027319	R3PCM0RK7BX42B	0393048616	42715644	Star-Spangled Manners: In Which Miss Manners Defends American Etiquette (For a Change)	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Sound but Stilted	I really love Miss Manners and am a huge fan of her other books.  However, as much as I support the basic truisms of what she says in her latest, I can't say that I enjoyed it all that much.<br />The clue is that I got it two months ago, and I still haven't bothered to finish it.<br />Miss Manners's previous books were written in a charming half-narrative and half-column style, allowing her to address her readers' concerns and to comment on them concurrently.  This book discards readers' letters in lieu of uninterrupted narration.  While she retains her whimsical and vaguely remonstrative tone, her characteristically lighthearted approach with this historically intriguing interpretation of American manners feels more like listening, under duress, to inane chitchat for hours and hours.<br />The conradiction is that what she has to say ISN'T small talk... but with that ongoing, constant, uninterrupted tone and whimsy, it's easy to stop paying attention.<br />After some of our country's recent tragedies, there has been a resurrection of American pride.  Perhaps that resurrection is what inspired Miss Manners to support of her country and its culture by chronicling the evolution and justifications for the American lifestyle.  She delineates a  sound historical diatribe.  Somehow, the &quot;Miss Manners&quot; persona to this particular chronicle doesn't jibe, in my opinion.<br />I wish, almost, that Judith Martin wrote this book AS Judith Martin, and that &quot;Miss Manners&quot; had less to do with it.  A more-serious approach -- not one without ANY humor or lightheartedness, but one with the dignity of her goal -- might have suited this subject better and allowed me to remain engaged long enough to actually finish those last two chapters.	2003-02-22
US	52027319	R3H86YOL1Q1GBU	068816112X	761772754	Replay	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Compelling and Thought Provoking	Although this book isn't my usual style of fare, I bought it based on a \\"Book of the Day\\" calendar's recommendation.  Once I picked it up, I couldn't put it down.  I finished the whole book within 24 hours, and even now, a week later, it's preying on my mind.<br />The story surrounds a man who dies in his early fifties only to find himself reinserted into his past at age 18, along with the accumulated experience and memories from his \\"previous\\" life.  His familiarity with the evolution of world events turns him into a financial wizard. However, he finds himself no happier or more fulfilled.  When the day of his previous \\"death\\" arrives, again, he dies, despite his careful attention to his health.<br />Suddenly, he's again reinserted again into his college-aged life, to \\"replay\\" his time on earth again, this time with the memory of two lifetimes to his credit.<br />This happens over and over, with only changes in his lifestyle based on his decisions and philosophies in that particular go-round.  Eventually, the question emerges, \\"When you can have all the resources in the world... all the women, all the attention... and when you know what to fear from future world events... when you've established connections with others... then what?\\"  Don't \\"regular\\" people often imagine how life could be different (better?) with more money/ fame/ sex/ success?  Don't \\"regular\\" people often wonder what's the point of the rat race, of our purpose on earth as individuals and part of the collective humanity?  Here is a book undertaking the daunting task of investigating answers to such age-old questions.<br />I could say a lot more, and I would love to discuss this book with someone who's read it, but I don't want to ruin the story for its potential readers by saying more about it.  Suffice it to say that this is a challenging book to read... but for someone who loves to read, who's interested in self-actualization, or who enjoys finely wrought literary fiction (and who doesn't mind some unduly graphic scenes), this book would be a valid and enriching contribution to your personal library.some unduly graphic scenes), this book would be a valid and enriching contribution to your personal library.	2003-01-01
US	52027319	RF9NQU4WDWAR5	0399149325	994558302	Portrait of a Killer: Jack the Ripper--Case Closed	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Four Stars	I give a lot of books four stars instead of five. Most books I read are good (if a book is bad, I might finish it, but generally I don't waste my time reviewing it), but few are fantastic. This is one is good.<br />I like this book because it's non-fiction that reads like a story. Cornwell hasn't abandoned her trademark compelling tone for changing genres, in other words. I wasn't sure at first if Kay Scarpetta (heroine of most Cornwell novels) would be the one delving into the mystery of Jack the Ripper in Fiction-Land. That would have been interesting. But I wasn't disappointed to learn that it's a first person from Cornwell herself.<br />I don't know Cornwell but through her books, and I bet if I met her, I'd find she's meticulous and thoughtful (as in thinker, not as in considerate). Just from reading her novels, I feel comfortable with believing in the validity of her research. In other words, I would count on her having done her legwork well. I trust that she herself believes in the deduction of her research, that Walter Sickert is Jack the Ripper.<br />That doesn't make me believe it, though.<br />I've read other books that claim to solve the Jack the Ripper mystery. This one is at least as well done as those; many times, it's better. Yet, Cornwell's evidence is largely circumstancial. The piteous lack of real evidence over 100 years after the fact makes it impossible simply believe her, period. Also, her research is prone to her interpretation, though she tries valiantly to minimize those times.<br />Another thing that bothers me about this book is her categorical disinclination to explore the other \\"suspects.\\" Based on her research, she is convinced that Walter Sickert is the Ripper, and even says at one time that it's her goal to follow the research, not to discredit other suspects. I guess, if we can't prove negatives, we can't prove that the other suspects DIDN'T do it, but the absence of addressing other popular candidates (except, I think she does discredit it being the Duke of Clarence) does disgruntle me.<br />Buy this book if you're an ardent Cornwell fan, Ripper \\"fan,\\" or a true-crime fan. You'll enjoy it.credit it being the Duke of Clarence) does disgruntle me.<br />Buy this book if you're an ardent Cornwell fan, Ripper \\"fan,\\" or a true-crime fan. You'll enjoy it.	2002-12-23
US	52027319	R1DR46DDJS1UMA	0312980159	272135612	Fast Women	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What fun!	This book is fun.<br />Any caffeine addict with a weird family will relate immediately to the main characters of coffee drinkers Nell Dysart, recent divorcee and secretary extraordinaire; and Gabe McKenna, hardworking detective and dysfunctional family man.  They're quirky, determined, and intriguing... typical Crusie traits.<br />The story surrounds Nell and her efforts to recover from a devastating and unexpected divorce.  She gets a job at Gabe's antiquated detective agency, replacing their ne'er do well former secretary who had spent the previous weeks, unbeknownst to her employers, embezzeling agency funds.  Before she knows what hit her, Nell's landed herself a full time job.<br />With characteristic quickness and despite their initial resistance, the main characters establish an inarguable chemistry that's apparent to everyone from Riley, Gabe's cousin, partner, and the resident hunk, to Chloe, Gabe's divorced-though-not-separated wife.  However, the story centers around more than an embezzeling secretary... there's also dognapping (what's a Crusie novel without a dog?), a very sneaky ex husband, a suspiciously missing person, and some general bribery thrown in for a good measure.<br />While at times the characters are hard to keep straight (in this one, everyone's married into the same family, so they all have the same LAST names by marriage as well as their OWN relatives, children, and friends to remember), it's truly fun to watch Nell's evolution to a functional &quot;divorce survivor&quot; from a blindsided victim... it's fun to watch Nell's son and Gabe's daughter slowly fall in love... it's fun to watch Suze, the beautiful sister-in-law and the Gabe's hunky cousin Riley....<br />This is a fun book.  Read it!	2002-10-04
US	52027319	R10EXECCUATU44	0385334842	511741465	Unfit to Practice	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	A good book, but not an O'Shaughnessy converter.	For the reader who's followed Nina Reilly through her trials (pun intended) and adversities in the previous seven books, this eighth installment is a must read.  However, it's a hinge on Nina's character arc, and as such, it's not a book to win her new fans.  It's a book to accomplish another end altogether.<br />In this story, Nina is enduring the ultimate (for a lawyer) judicial ironical experience: standing trial herself.  Of course, our resident Girl Scout committed no felonious act (although she's not so pure as to have avoided FLIRTING with the law a time or two), but in this chronicle, the State of California reviews Nina's right to retain her license in the face of the disappearance of some highly confidential and sensitive client files.<br />The disappearance of the files isn't enough for a problem in and of itself, but confidential information suddenly materializes publically in ways that harm her clients' welfare... information that could have come only from those missing files.  An insidious, unknown \\"someone\\" is out to damage Nina's reputation and ultimately destroy her career.<br />For help, Nina turns to private investigator and sometime-lover Paul van Wagoner, and he in turn engages for her defense his former best friend, her own ex-husband Jack (a state bar attorney).  For other means of support, Nina relies on the familiar figures of Sandy Whitefeather, her legal assistant; Sandy's son Wish, a private invesigator in training; and her brother and sister-in-law.<br />The cases in which the files disappeared, all three provoking and complicated scenarios ranging from a nasty custody battle to immigrant businesses and racism to murder of passion, are compelling and complex, further muddied by the steady hand of this unknown enemy who's not only milking but manipulating information by stacking it against our feckless heroine.<br />Who is the enemy?  Ay, that's the question.  The O'Shaughnessy sisters provide several potential perpetraters, and they make each so distasteful that any one would satisfy, ultimately.<br />The ending is smashing (pun intended), and a romantic denouement lets the reader close the book with a wistful sigh.  I do wonder if Mary and Pamela O'Shaughnessy plan to \\"hang up\\" the Reilly series after this book, which leaves Nina's story with just the right tone, just the right unanswered questions, and just the right allusions to the future for readers to paint their own portrait of what that future will be.each so distasteful that any one would satisfy, ultimately.<br />The ending is smashing (pun intended), and a romantic denouement lets the reader close the book with a wistful sigh.  I do wonder if Mary and Pamela O'Shaughnessy plan to \\"hang up\\" the Reilly series after this book, which leaves Nina's story with just the right tone, just the right unanswered questions, and just the right allusions to the future for readers to paint their own portrait of what that future will be.	2002-09-17
US	52027319	R2TQ3G6HAA7TDR	0312284683	347731978	Faking It	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Good	I liked this book, which reprises some of the characters from Welcome to Temptation.  However, compared to Welcome to Temptation, this book is a pretty little story.  I mean, it's funny, it's warm, it's sexy, and it's worth it... but read Welcome to Temptation first.  It's like Faking It is Britney Spears, and Welcome to Temptation is Madonna.<br />This book concerns the brother of the Dempsey clan, Davy, and his foray into a small Ohio town with its own art gallery.  Characters include sisters Tilda and Eve, their mother Gwen, Eve's daughter Nadine, Nadine's father (and Eve's gay ex husband) Andrew, and a host of other eccentrics, including Davy's ex flame Drea Whipple Lewis who's hot on the trail of husband number 3.<br />Conflicts abound.  Drea's latest \\"harvest\\" is more interested in Gwen.  Davy and Tilda keep meeting in closets.  Eve's alter ego, Louise, jumps Davy's friend Simon, who's averse to dating mothers (and not recognizing her as Eve, mother of Nadine).  Of course, the omnipresent Crusie dog makes an appearance, this time in the form of Spot, aka Steve, a pooch Tilda rescues from a callous owner who adopted him just for the duration of her home decorating project.  All of this action revolves around the central conflict of Tilda needing to recoup gallery forgeries that could damage the business's reputation forever.<br />Basically, the only REAL problem with this book is the same as Welcome to Temptation:  THE CHARACTERS ALL HIT AT ONCE, AND IT'S REALLY HARD TO KEEP THEM STRAIGHT!  This time, it was worse since Spot got a person's name after Tilda adopted him, and at times I'd FORGET him, and then it'd mention Steve... and I'd think, who's that?  If this author would have her characters call each other by their roles... Mom... Dad... something like that, maybe it'd help....  Either that or a diagram.  I am not a stupid woman, and this is for some reason a recurring problem for me with Crusie novels.<br />But the book is sweet if not sassy like Welcome to Temptation.  If you like Crusie, you'll like this book.to Temptation.  If you like Crusie, you'll like this book.	2002-09-01
US	52027319	R2Z684RXVD73ZM	0440236053	51290485	Writ of Execution (Nina Reilly)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A Good Continuation	I have read all of the Nina Reilly books, and this is a good one, if not quite as good as its predecessor Move to Strike.<br />The story concerns slot-jackpot winner Jessie Potter, a young Washoe Indian and fomer Marine, who strikes a 7-mil plus jackpot at a local casino.  It also includes her obsessive first-marriage father in law, her husband-of-convenience, and a casino-employed compulsive gambler.  Motivations for behavior are as eccentric as the characters themselves, all of whom want something different for diverse and equally eccentric reasons.<br />There were a few small weaknesses.  Jessie, so reluctant to trust even her attorney, embraces the chance to trust her stranger-husband.  That hardly makes sense.  Then, although the father-in-law issues are explained, they're not demonstrated in the story... he barely escapes paper-doll status as a character.  Nina's relationship with pseudoboyfriend Paul van Wagoner hardly justify her hot and cold treatment of him... of course, series regulars get it, but would a series newcomer?  There are lots of minor characters, and sometimes it gets inconvenient to have to recall everyone's role in the story... I bet some combining could have simplified matters.<br />However, authors Mary and Pamela make great strides in the area of literary cohesiveness, fitting together the components of this story with increasingly masterful ease.  The character of Kenny (husband of convenience) is a terrific manifestation, and the authors' familiarity with the ins and outs of slot machines and Nevada's gaming industry are both interesting, significant, and (I'd think) illuminating!<br />I eagerly anticipated this book, and I was quite satisfied that my wait was worth it.  I'm now awaiting the next installment!	2002-07-03
US	52027319	R3E28W2JUFTSW4	0446602450	454060985	Spencerville	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A Wonderful Book!	I not only enjoyed but connected emotionally to this story about star-crossed lovers and the idiot... husband who impedes their togetherness.<br />Keith, our protagonist, is a retired Cold War veteran who returns to his hometown to find Annie, his high school and college sweetheart whom he left in Ohio when wanderlust proved more powerful than regular lust.  She, in the intervening twenty years, married the local bully, Cliff, a man whose power as the town's corrupt police chief is exceeded only by his paranoia.  A sociopath walking the fine line between sanity and absolute psychosis, Cliff responds not well to Keith's arrival, and soon enough the situation becomes both intolerable and amusing, as Keith is more than ready for the challenge Cliff presents.<br />What I found so impressive on an emotional level was the way Cliff's absolute asinine-ness (if that's a word) worked.  ...However, his misuse of power, exaggerated though it is, is entirely believable, and the consequences -- the veritable imprisonment of his wife, his personal manipulation of the law to his own ends -- relatively terrifying.  Annie's plight bothered me, as her lack of power in the face of the larger, more evil, hopelessly crazy husband basically left her a sitting duck, even when Keith was on her side, and even when she herself chose to fight back.<br />Of course, as this is a modern American novel, we all know how it ends.<br />Anyway, I took away a star for three reasons.  First, I don't like Keith's hippie friends.  They contribute very little to the story, and I find them distracting...  The author was trying to demonstrate just how \\"over\\" that era is, and no, these two don't fit into contemporary society at all... They have next to no point, except to get in the way and distract readers who're bothered by their dimness.<br />Second, I missed Annie's children.  The idea of her having children was, I suppose, to connect her more to her husband -- and to explain why she stayed with the nutcase for twenty years.  But if she HAS children, they should be important even if they're in college and not home.  Are they crazy like their dad?  Do they emulate him at all?  Does she like them?  How does he treat them?  The children presented a number of questions that remain hanging in the background.<br />Last, the author tantalizes readers with snippits about exactly what Keith did for the government for twenty years and throws in Keith's old boss to tempt him back to the government fold.  Yet, he never ties up these loose ends.<br />I think this book has a necessarily wide scope, but I think some of the width means that the author had to incorporate more information than was germane to his main plot line.  But there are consequences to that.<br />However, this is a marvelous book!  If you're looking for a chunky summer read, this is a great bet.utcase for twenty years.  But if she HAS children, they should be important even if they're in college and not home.  Are they crazy like their dad?  Do they emulate him at all?  Does she like them?  How does he treat them?  The children presented a number of questions that remain hanging in the background.<br />Last, the author tantalizes readers with snippits about exactly what Keith did for the government for twenty years and throws in Keith's old boss to tempt him back to the government fold.  Yet, he never ties up these loose ends.<br />I think this book has a necessarily wide scope, but I think some of the width means that the author had to incorporate more information than was germane to his main plot line.  But there are consequences to that.<br />However, this is a marvelous book!  If you're looking for a chunky summer read, this is a great bet.	2002-04-06
US	52027319	R2XEFBXZ8TV3TT	0061096962	115204491	Perfect Murder, Perfect Town : The Uncensored Story of the JonBenet Murder and the Grand Jury's Search for the Final Truth	Books	4	3	4	N	N	For a Fair Ramsey Rookie....	This is not a bad book.<br />It has one main advantage and two disadvantages.  The biggest advantage is its goal, to present ALL of the information available concerning the 1996 murder of JonBenet Ramsey.  The author chronicles the evolution of the investigation and the commentary from both sides of the argument (Did or did not the parents have anything to do with their daughter's murder?) without significant -- at least, to me -- bias.  It's a wonderful goal, as so much of this murder has fallen prey to conjecture and speculation... and while this book does acknowledge theories, it does base itself around facts.<br />The two problems with the book, though, are the occasional streaks toward interpretation... for example, it might say something like, \\"This person did __________, which could mean __________.\\"  But it doesn't NECESSARILY mean what the author suggests, and that does become annoying.  Also, there are a LOT of investigators, journalists, friends of the Ramsey's, and peripheral people who are very hard to keep straight.  Short of making a glossary of characters, or implementing each person's rank or relationship with his or her name (like \\"Lieutenant So-and-So\\"), I would advise potential readers to keep a little list of people for their convenience.<br />I don't think it's a bad book.  I bought it from a bargain counter in a bookstore, and I think the [price] was fair.  However, I don't know how important it is for the casual reader to own... so if you're a fellow casual reader and not spiritually invested in this case, you should be satisfied reading the copy from your local library.  I could have just borrowed it and not missed owning one.	2002-03-14
US	52027319	R2T16RSFNR0LE6	0312240910	566519970	Monica's Story	Books	3	11	14	N	N	This book makes me laugh.	This book is highly entertaining, for its goal is twofold and self-contradictory.  It attempts to portray Monica Lewinsky, Clinton's White House girlfriend, as a moral, intelligent, functional youth of high potential and integrity... while at the same time making her utter naivete and gullibility a natural, acceptable, and logical component of her character.<br />For a thinking person, this is but a stretch.<br />Monica does have a moral backbone of sorts... she refused, for example, to blow whistles on her enemies to the media when such behavior might have been understandable, and she does endeavor repeatedly to spare her family from media pain... but at the same time her dumb choices like having illicit relationships with married men, her abortion, and her efforts to convine her first married boyfriend's other girlfriend not to reveal their affair to his wife both astonish and appall me.  They undo successfully my ability to respect her as Morton seems to want the readers of this book to do.<br />Morton explains the faults in her character as \\"smart woman, stupid choices.\\"  Forrest Gump had a point with \\"stupid is as stupid does,\\" and Monica's decisions and expectations were regularly stupid in the extreme.  The author never acknowledges that without reminding us of her (cough) innocence, her (cough cough) inherent character, or her (hacking) idealistic hopes by way of justifying or excepting her as a bad person.<br />Also, I don't like Morton's writing style, although this book is much better than his book on the late former Princess of Wales -- practically a poster-book for circuitous writing.  This one follows a fairly logical chronological order, but his phraseology is repetitive and excessive (there's a lot of \\"weeping, crying,\\" a lot of \\"utter terror and desperation,\\" a lot of \\"hysterical sobbing\\").  I imagine that would try the patience of more sophisticated readers who care less about Monica's affectations and more about how she can rationalize away what thinking and less emotional people would see with crystal clarity, that her situation as the President's girlfriend was tenuous at best and she couldn't believe a single word he told her.<br />If you enjoy faintly salacious reads with unbelievable naivete, true stories, or Clinton bashing literature, this may be a great read for you... but read it for entertainment purposes only.  That's really all it's worth.hinking and less emotional people would see with crystal clarity, that her situation as the President's girlfriend was tenuous at best and she couldn't believe a single word he told her.<br />If you enjoy faintly salacious reads with unbelievable naivete, true stories, or Clinton bashing literature, this may be a great read for you... but read it for entertainment purposes only.  That's really all it's worth.	2002-03-14
US	52027319	R25G0G84NZLP4E	1559706236	307135118	The Queen & Di: The Untold Story	Books	5	15	21	N	N	Even Handed, Fair	Having shied away from the more obsequious books on the shelves in recent years, something made me pick this book up and give it a go.  I have been quite favorably impressed.<br />This book classifies the late former Princess of Wales, Diana, and Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth during similar times in their lives.  The author covers familiar ground: childhoods, educations, courtships, marriages, marital challenges, child rearing, and public perceptions without sensationalism or conjecture, achieving an impressive objectivity.  Although I know some die-hard Diana sympathizers may take issue with some of the details or interpretation of blame (for example, Diana's alleged premarital virginity -- which the author endorses -- and the he-said, she-said within the Wales' marriage), the author's tone makes her both pleasant and easy to read.  She is inherently believable.<br />This book would be perfect for someone curious about the late former princess and her formidable mother in law, but who's never read much on them in a factual medium (that is, something beyond People Magazine or a \\"blabloid\\").  I think even most Diana fans would appreciate the author's even-handedness on more sensitive details on the late former princess's life, and fans of the Queen would be further convinced of England's monarch's steadfastness and devotion to her country.<br />I like this book.  I think most others with an interest in British royalty would, too.	2002-03-05
US	52027319	R35UGXXZNT9V5Z	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Book.  Mostly.	This book does so well what it does well that it's quite possible to overlook the parts that ring false or disturb.<br />The story centers around a native Louisianan author, Sidda, and her mother angst, the mother being a self-possessed bon vivant who, at the same time, brought terror and fear upon her offspring during their childhood.  The two stories told simultaneously, the Sidda's in present and the mother Vivi's in flashback, we the readers see the childhood causes of Vivi's duality of personality... and the effects of her scars on the subsequent generation.<br />First, this novel does ring true with the friendship between Viv and her three best girlfriends, the \\"Ya Ya's.\\"  The girls are sincerely and believably close; the author of this novel creates this circle of friends during a specific time in that specific place with authenticity and sensitivity.  The girls themselves, as well as members of their families, are clearly drawn distinguishable personalities.  Their highjinks are amusing and appalling, and their shared experiences make believable the adult closeness which they share as daughter Sidda's story unfolds.<br />Sidda herself is what doesn't sit firmly with me.  She's a successful playwright who alienates her mother by using private scenarios from her childhood as fodder for her very public plays.  Sidda, despite her success, is a woman fraught with insecurities and obsessive envy of her mother's place and position of security in life.  She yearns for closeness and acceptance with her mother, but she has been disappointed too many times by her unpredicatable and not-always-reliable behavior... perhaps Sidda's discomfiture is understandable, but I find it hard to swallow that an adult woman with a distinguished career, especially one as cerebral and evolved as playwriting, hadn't dealt with her childhood megrims before the wholly adult age of 40.<br />As a result of Sidda's issues, she's put her relationship with a man she adores and who adores her on hold... she's desperate to fill in blanks that have plagued her since she young (the linchpin scene concerning Vivi's breakdown emerges with tremendous power and startling poignancy), and find a context for her past before initiating her future.  That's fine.  It's just not as fun to read as the parts involving the Ya Ya's themselves, those four formidable Grande Dames of whom I'd like to be a part.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a unique cast of characters and that \\"good old boy,\\" Creole variety, of the deep south.  I'd read it again... as I already said, its weaknesses are more than offset by its strengths.n hold... she's desperate to fill in blanks that have plagued her since she young (the linchpin scene concerning Vivi's breakdown emerges with tremendous power and startling poignancy), and find a context for her past before initiating her future.  That's fine.  It's just not as fun to read as the parts involving the Ya Ya's themselves, those four formidable Grande Dames of whom I'd like to be a part.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a unique cast of characters and that \\"good old boy,\\" Creole variety, of the deep south.  I'd read it again... as I already said, its weaknesses are more than offset by its strengths.	2002-01-26
US	52027319	R3O135QR6ACMTF	0451181964	626574201	Corruption of Blood	Books	3	19	22	N	N	Kennedy, anyone?	As someone typically fascinated with the Kennedy mystique, this book's subject matter (the Kennedy assassination) intrigued me, especially since in one hand, its author worked on the actual Kennedy investigation... and in the other, he's fluent and creative enough to have invented the mythical Butch Karp, prosecuter extraordinaire.  Putting those hands together, we get this particular novel, which examines the assassination from a fictional historical perspective.<br />I gave the story only three stars because, after a while into it, the Kennedy thing gets kind of muddy.  It's really hard to keep all the characters and their interrelations straight (considering that some are good guys, some are known bad guys, some are mysterious and seldom-seen bad guys, some are good guys masquerading as bad guys, most have several aliases, and none of them use first names), and the political double-speak gets hard for me to digest.  However, the &quot;answer&quot; in this book as to who killed JFK is sufficiently intriguing and satisfying for conspiracy theorists... and sufficiently absurd in its genesis to satisfy those with less tolerance for flights of fancy.<br />Much more interesting to me in this book is the sub-plot concerning Butch's wife Marlene, who delves into an investigation of her own, which (as seems to happen regularly in Butch Karp novels) winds up dovetailing neatly with her husband's.  This book also introduces readers to the Karp family dog, Sweetie, the rescued Neapolitan mastiff that grows into the treasured family pet who spends half of his time drooling on Karp family belongings -- and the other half as Marlene's partner in vigilantism.<br />I would recommend first checking out this book in a library for a good preview... and while it does begin tantalizingly, remember what I said about its foggy middle and end.  However, if you've been a hard-core Butch Karp fan, this is a necessary, although not especially noteworthy, addition to your Karp collection.	2001-11-13
US	52027319	R3C2VFKM3XXAD4	039914739X	683788691	Isle of Dogs	Books	4	3	9	N	N	Effective Juxtaposition for the Extraordinarily Literate	I've read all of Patricia Cornwell books.  I snatched this one off of the shelves as soon as I could, having waited for it with great anticipation.<br />First, let me say that I endorse this book.<br />I noticed that, up to now, it's had a rather low rating on Amazon, so to prevent outside influence over my own opinion, I've read none of the other reviews... but I'll confess that they don't surprise me much.  In this book, Cornwell does a masterful job illuminiating the absurdities of criminals, &quot;red necks,&quot; American aristocracy, and human tradition.  She weaves into the story significant details of American history, microcosms, and etymology.  Her characters who maintain dignity are those motivated primarily by selfless commitment to others, and those with alternative motivations are drawn with such comic hyberbole as to be reduced to their lowest common denominators.<br />Would many run-of-the-mill readers, who read mostly for pleasure and escape, assimilate as well as appreciate what she's done here?  They see &quot;Cornwell&quot; on the cover and expect Scarpetta angst.  But their limited perspective does not minimize Cornwell's accomplishment.  A one-note author she is not, and Hammer and Brazill represent the exclusive channel for her comedic flair, a highly sophisticated and at times esoteric flair, but a flair nonetheless.<br />In other words, this is a book for the sophisticated reader, the one with the point of view and experience for a true black comedy.<br />The only Cornwell writing that made me laugh harder was Lelia Erhart in one of the book's prequels... the woman's malapropisms were marvelous as much for the words she meant as the words she actually said, both of which dovetailed seamlessly and with great effect into the plot.  Readers could take everything two ways -- and often her misspeak revealed the precise truth she meant to avoid.  Magnificent!<br />Anyway, I did knock off a star.  I miss Virginia West, a character in the prequels.  Her elimination leaves Andy &quot;alone&quot; with Hammer, if you catch my drift, to confusing effect.  Virginia used to soak up Andy's hormones, allowing him to develop as Judy's mentee, a relationship that was evolving most productively until Cornwell muddied the waters.  I don't think a fiftyish and increasingly salty widow, one of accomplishment and dignity, would ever verbalize warmies, even in the abstract, for a man the age of her offspring.  Call me crazy, but creating such an atomosphere rings false to me.<br />Also, there is the issue of readability.  This is a challenging book, one I'll have to reread to ensure I got  it all.  Now, I do admire that modern writers are able to generate stories of complexity and depth for modern readers.  Still, when reading a pleasure book, I don't usually skim a page here or there just to get on with the show.<br />For a Cornwell devotee, go for it!  If you're not a voracious reader, this book -- actually, most Cornwell books, which are written intelligently, deeply, and with masterful command of language -- are probably not your cup of tea.s.  Her elimination leaves Andy &quot;alone&quot; with Hammer, if you catch my drift, to confusing effect.  Virginia used to soak up Andy's hormones, allowing him to develop as Judy's mentee, a relationship that was evolving most productively until Cornwell muddied the waters.  I don't think a fiftyish and increasingly salty widow, one of accomplishment and dignity, would ever verbalize warmies, even in the abstract, for a man the age of her offspring.  Call me crazy, but creating such an atomosphere rings false to me.<br />Also, there is the issue of readability.  This is a challenging book, one I'll have to reread to ensure I got  it all.  Now, I do admire that modern writers are able to generate stories of complexity and depth for modern readers.  Still, when reading a pleasure book, I don't usually skim a page here or there just to get on with the show.<br />For a Cornwell devotee, go for it!  If you're not a voracious reader, this book -- actually, most Cornwell books, which are written intelligently, deeply, and with masterful command of language -- are probably not your cup of tea.	2001-10-28
US	52027319	R2RSYJUVOF5EN	0060195703	926968574	Long Time No See: A Novel	Books	3	20	22	N	N	Great for an Isaacs Devotee.... BUT.	First, let me say that After All These Years and Shining Through, two books by this author, are two of my favorite books in life... very high praise from an English teacher and natural lifelong voracious reader.<br />While this sequel to Compromising Positions does somewhat satiate my desire for witty and vibrant Isaacs writing, it leaves me wistful.  With this book, Isaccs does her ribald, creative, liberal thing... but like heroine Judith Singer, she's now somewhat predictably paced, a little too readily familiar, and -- dare I say it? -- just a touch YAWN.<br />Is this author running out of ideas?  Must she resort to the vague glimmers of already-told anecdotes and slightly faded allusions?  I could almost say Judith's lines with her in this reprise of Compromising Positions... and I figured out the who-done-it well before the end (read After All These Years if you want an amazingly witty murder mystery by this woman... it's a much better illustration of what she can do!).<br />Don't get me wrong, the mystery itself is terrific, with a powerful punch at the end, when the evil villain emerges.  So why does it fail to totally satisfy?  I wish the author had saved this idea for a stimulating NEW heroine... someone not quite so liberal, not quite so Semitic, not quite so like all her other heroines.  Someone like... Cass, in After All These Years.  She's highly intelligent, she's well educated, she's affluent, she's conservative, she's black, she's DIFFERENT.<br />Oh, and with Nelson, the heroine's adulterous partner in days gone by, expect little of their initial forbidden lustful thrill... Nelson is older, too.  It's nice that these two post-menopausal, pre-Medicare folks gained their long-awaited closure, but then I doubt that Judith would either need or much benefit from a twice married, thrice fathered cop-boyfriend, despite Isaacs's efforts to establish Judith's loneliness as a widow and emptiness with &quot;only&quot; her Ph.D. and two grown, successful children.<br />Most people would have it so good.<br />Anyway, it's a good -- if not totally fulfilling -- read if you're a devoted Isaacs fan... if you're not yet, don't let this book try to turn you on to her.  But read After All These Years.  Read Shining Through.  Don't watch the movie!  Seriously!  You'll LOVE them.dren.<br />Most people would have it so good.<br />Anyway, it's a good -- if not totally fulfilling -- read if you're a devoted Isaacs fan... if you're not yet, don't let this book try to turn you on to her.  But read After All These Years.  Read Shining Through.  Don't watch the movie!  Seriously!  You'll LOVE them.	2001-10-18
US	52027319	R1E42ELL2UDA24	0312974256	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A Fabulous Fun Read	This book was entertaining, amusing, and a great escape. I enjoyed the entire Dempsey family (sisters Sophie and Amy with brother Dave) and all the kooky residents of small town Temptation, Ohio.<br />The story centers around Amy's task of filming an audition tape for local Temptation celebrity Clea Whipple (which, depending on your life experience, might allude to \\"squeezing the Charmin\\" or a transformation of \\"whipped cream\\" and \\"nipple,\\" both apt images to the ripely sexy Clea).<br />Naturally, as in most Cruisie books, the simple-enough task at hand morphs exponentially into a major problem. A simple audition tape somehow becomes a porn video called (believe it or not) Hot Fleshy Thighs. Clea is busy seducing the son of the man to whom she lost her virginity. Amy the Juvenile Felon is enticing Wes the Country Cop. And Mayor Phineas Tucker (the fourth) thinks Sophie is rather intriguing... despite their disparate sides of the proverbial tracks.<br />Each page gets funnier, and each funnier part makes the story even more absurd... good absurd, though.<br />Crusie gets bonus points for her depiction of Phineas Tucker's mother, an austere and formidable woman hell-bent on keeping her son mayor while protecting \\"his\\" (really her) best interests, whether or not they'll make him happy. Crusie gets more bonus points for the character of Dillie, Tucker's daughter by his late wife (from Sophie's side of the tracks). Dillie's a full-bodied character all on her own. The kid's a kick in the pants.<br />However, Crusie loses ground and a star in my rating because of the confusing beginning of this book. It's almost impossible to keep all the characters straight without making a diagram, which I didn't do, but which I almost had to! It was difficult to separate the characters effectively by name, occupation, age, mate, and personality, and to remember the details about each. I got the hang of it about the quarter of the way through, which is too far into the story to impress me.<br />However, I think this is a great book for kicking back and having some laughs... it's brain candy, but delicious, complex, and worth it brain candy... so enjoy!me.<br />However, I think this is a great book for kicking back and having some laughs... it's brain candy, but delicious, complex, and worth it brain candy... so enjoy!	2001-10-09
US	52027319	R2OL3KDBL7Q7KC	0451203267	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me (Revised and Updated): 20th Anniversary	Books	5	7	8	N	N	My First -- and Still Favorite -- Ann Rule Book	This book reads like a preposterously coincidental fictionalized account of someone's acquaintence with serial killer Ted Bundy.  It's a true story, which put my hackles on edge.<br />Esteemed crime writer and former law enforcement officer Ann Rule KNEW Ted Bundy.  She was FRIENDS with him.  They SOCIALIZED.  She sent him MONEY.  As she was well older than he, and hardly fodder for his brutish obsession with tall, young, beautiful, long haired women, and the two developed an almost sibling-like rapport that spanned several years, his arrests in two states, and the entire North American continent.<br />Throughout, Rule's memoir remains personal, which allows Ted's story to unfold without the grotesque and gruesome details that would drape a more traditional biography.  We get to know this especially intelligent and creative young man, and to see him as he appeared to the world as one witty, amusing, and urbane.  We see their friendship develop over time, watching it turn into a mutually enjoyable and important -- if at times long-distance -- friendship of mutual respect and regard.<br />The same qualities allowed him to fool his victims, ensnaring them with nary a wimper or whine in their own defense.  We hear the evolution of this crime wave of murder and abuse as Rule herself must have heard it: episodically, without full color details or explanations... yet with Ted-related coincidences too extreme for her to ignore, though too brutish to believe.<br />Especially for the squeamish, I consider this book a fantastic chronicle.  I am easily scared and very suggestible, but this book didn't give me nightmares, for Rule practically takes us by the hand and shares not Ted's story, but her perspective of Ted's story.  Thus, we not only understand the dichotomy of Ted Bundy, but we share Rule's dawning horror as she realizes her friend, her correspondent, her attractive and amusing pal is, in fact, the insidious embodiment of evil who brutally and insidiously pillaged the lives of several dozen innocent young women.<br />When Rule finally put together the idea of Ted with the reality of his crimes, she threw up.  I wanted to do the same.<br />This book is eye opening and enthralling.  As our world becomes increasingly unstable and unpredictable, I find this book an important opportunity for the vicarious experience.  Other Rule books are intriguing and compelling, but none of the others I have read lend the same scandalizing horror as this one.  I recommend it highly.e lives of several dozen innocent young women.<br />When Rule finally put together the idea of Ted with the reality of his crimes, she threw up.  I wanted to do the same.  <br />This book is eye opening and enthralling.  As our world becomes increasingly unstable and unpredictable, I find this book an important opportunity for the vicarious experience.  Other Rule books are intriguing and compelling, but none of the others I have read lend the same scandalizing horror as this one.  I recommend it highly.	2001-10-03
US	52027319	R3W23AIFM5OQ2E	0743405900	344809762	True Justice	Books	5	2	3	N	N	In My Opinion, the Finest Butch Karp Novel So Far	This book was terrific.<br />If you're a fan of the legal thriller, you will love this story.<br />If you've followed Butch and Marlene through their other books, this one will present less of a challenge in believability; you will accept easily daughter Lucy's savant qualities -- as well as the family's casual attitude toward and involvement in violence and mayhem -- but this novel can and would stand alone.  It does what no other Butch Karp novel has before done, as I see it.<br />It cohesively and fluently investigates all separate facets of a meaningful universal theme.  This book defines true justice.<br />In other words, this book is an increasingly rare find in modern fiction.  It is LITERATURE.  In the milieu of the modern crime drama, this story explores the nature of ultimate justice in a flawed world.  Human beings have always attempted and are always attempting to level the criminal playing field by meting out consequences for crimes so heinous that no equitable punishment can possibly exist.  This book puts those attempts in an understandable and profound context.<br />I loved this book.  I have read the other Butch Karp novels, and this one is in a class by itself.  Even if you don't like &quot;serial mystery stories,&quot; you will like this one if you like to read real books.  Be patient with its extremes (the author has earned the privilege, as he HAS raised some of these characters from babies!), back up for a running start, and prepare for a thought-provoking experience.	2001-09-09
US	52027319	R1QA5OJWWM9AGG	0312966806	74138788	Tell Me Lies	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Amusing and Unchallenging	Poor Maddie Faraday.  She finds some obscene underwear in her husband's car and backs up to divorce him -- and then her whole life hits the fan as the town's tongues begin wagging.  First, there's that mysterious money in their safe-deposit box, then his erratic, alcoholic, and uncharacteristically violent behavior at home... and her former high school paramour returns with hormones raging.  And suddenly (though not totally unexpectedly), the husband turns up dead.  Who killed him?  What was he up to?  Where did that money come from?  The town is abuzz, and poor Maddie is suspect number one.<br />Okay, the story isn't totally original, and the author's not inconsequential efforts to populate Frog Point with charming eccentrics at times fade into into predictable caricatures, this story still does several things well.  First, the author realizes that &quot;real people&quot; require a simple and uncomplicated writing style, which she's nails perfectly.  Also, Maddie herself is believable and earns my compassion, even if the boyfriend (a surprisingly articulate though occasionally brooding modern day Heathcliff without the issues) does, at times, seem rather too good to be true.<br />Also, I really like Maddie's best friend Treva and her family, as well as the depiction of young Emily Farraday, the blameless innocent daughter amidst all the chaos.  Maddie's mother and grandmother, while valuable for the insight and challenge that they present to our heroine, do teeter off the cliff of believability at times in spite of their authentic homespun good sense and inclination to gossip.<br />Basically, this book is entertaining.  Beyond that, it's not much.  But for a book to entertain is an accomplishment, so I would recommend this to someone who enjoys a good laugh and has the time to indulge in occasionally witty if unchallenging fare.	2001-09-09
US	52027319	R264FNPU14JF4X	0553564668	406299863	What Falls Away: A Memoir	Books	5	81	87	N	N	Sincere without being Scathing	I read a whole lot.  I like biographies especially, but I shied away from this one for a long time, not interested in the over-feted ex Mrs. Previn/ ex Mrs. Sinatra whose boyfriend seduced her own adult daughter and was suspected of molesting their own child.  However, as a strong adoption proponent, a TV show on Mia and her many children finally convinced me to give this book a chance.<br />I really enjoyed it.<br />The talented Miss Farrow is an effective narrator, recounting her life without fanfare or hyperbole.  She admits to her own weaknesses (you should read Eddie Fisher's autobiography for a non-example of THAT!), and she confesses that her movie-baby upbringing skewed her perspective of normalcy that most of us take for granted.  She didn't even realize Frank Sinatra was a legend at the time of their marriage, for example.<br />She bubbles over trials (polio as a youngster, the death of her father, her divorces) with the attitude that negativity deserves no chance to crush the present.  However, she spends more time on Allen; her account rings with absolute sincerity as she describes the ongoing perversions of his behavior with their daughter Dylan (and readily confesses her own &quot;wrongness&quot; for not stopping the inappropriateness long before she actually did, earning my respect).  She even included, in an appendix, the court decision refusing Allen custody of the three children they shared and the reasons why.<br />Her anger does appear in defense of Dylan and especially upon discovery of Allen's affair with Soon-Yi, her daughter with Andre Previn.  She describes without an iota of rancor or hatred scenes of him attempting to justify himself, but I could not help but want to smack him hard for the damage he foisted on innocent children.  Yes, I think Mia should have been smarter in the first place about him.  So does she.  But he was wrong, evil.<br />Usually, after I read one biography, I read others about the same person (or about his or her loved ones, if they're famous and have their own books out) to try to avoid a skewed perspective of the truth... but in this case, it'll be quite a while before I would care to touch a Woody Allen ANYTHING, especially a book or film that would put money in his selfish, narcissistic, self-serving pocket.<br />Her adoption mania struck me as dysfunctional at first, but in context (Mia is, herself, one of seven children... and she always first consulted her present family before introducing a newcomer... many of whom were grown by the time new babies entered the scene), it's not as startling as I imagined.  Again, she describes the evolution of her nuclear family without sensationalism, without a &quot;glorify me because I'm so heroic&quot; attitude, just with simple comment that children all deserve families to love them, even children that most &quot;normal&quot; families would find it difficult to love.  She has the means, and she has the imperfect though always willing heart to back up her inclinations.<br />I would definitely recommend this book to read, although you may want to scope it out in a bookstore or library before buying it.  It's not light fare.ed ones, if they're famous and have their own books out) to try to avoid a skewed perspective of the truth... but in this case, it'll be quite a while before I would care to touch a Woody Allen ANYTHING, especially a book or film that would put money in his selfish, narcissistic, self-serving pocket.<br />Her adoption mania struck me as dysfunctional at first, but in context (Mia is, herself, one of seven children... and she always first consulted her present family before introducing a newcomer... many of whom were grown by the time new babies entered the scene), it's not as startling as I imagined.  Again, she describes the evolution of her nuclear family without sensationalism, without a &quot;glorify me because I'm so heroic&quot; attitude, just with simple comment that children all deserve families to love them, even children that most &quot;normal&quot; families would find it difficult to love.  She has the means, and she has the imperfect though always willing heart to back up her inclinations.<br />I would definitely recommend this book to read, although you may want to scope it out in a bookstore or library before buying it.  It's not light fare.	2001-08-19
US	52027319	R1078JG2WNJP37	0312950519	593075015	Diana in Private: The Princess Nobody Knows	Books	4	11	14	N	N	I liked it....	I read most royalty books I can get my hands on and I like this one.  Why?  It's not sensationalized, it's frank.  The author is a peripheral part of the circles of people of whom she speaks.  She is fairly even handed, without &quot;poor princessing&quot; as much as most other Diana books do... and she has marked compassion for the dubiously-perceived Prince of Wales.  Maybe she doesn't get everything right -- who can say for sure? -- but I have the feeling she is much RIGHTER than wrong in this chronicle of Diana, and I think we readers owe it to Charles and to Diana herself to attempt to see them in a balanced perspective.<br />This book was published in 1992 at the time of the Waleses de facto separation (they separated formally in December of that year) and five years previous to the former late princess's death in a car crash in Paris (August, 1997).	2001-08-18
US	52027319	R1T2ISE85Y3FBX	0446605409	348227423	Plum Island	Books	5	35	40	N	N	I thought this book was great.	I've read all the DeMille I can get my hands on, and this one was one of my favorites.  It's the first book in a set of two, The Lion's Game as its companion book (and which is a smidge better than this one, even!).<br />I like DeMille because at his best, his characters are smart and sassy, and the stories are cohesive, with serious subject matter presented with a touch of the absurd; the seriousness doesn't become so grave so as to obliterate any enjoyment of the story or his use of words.  This story exemplifies exactly what I mean... once you begin reading, it's like riding over rapids.  The water just rushes on, makes you laugh, and occasionally you stop, startled, when something bumps a bit more than you expected.<br />In this particular story, our main character (NYC investigator Paul Corey) is recovering on Long Island from some gunshot wounds, and he gets involved in the local double homicide of two scientists who work on Plum Island, a contagious disease research center right off of the coast.  Of course, Paul is (in his own mind at least) smarter and savvier than any of the local yokels, even the pretty detective Beth Penrose, who's in charge of the investigation (although properly, she's not local, either).<br />The fact that the scientists worked with some of the most lethal pathogens on earth rises all sorts of speculation that they were being evil and subversive to assist some less-friendly nation with the wiping out of the human race, but Corey in all his infinite and dubious wisdom, uncovers an alternative theory that's much less lethal -- at least for greater mankind -- but all the more intriguing for those who love history and treasure hunts.<br />I enjoyed this book.  Most voracious readers would, too.	2001-08-18
US	52027319	R4P19RO63KGZ4	0786010266	987391291	THE KENNEDYS: The Third Generation	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Mean Spirited, Critical, and Irritating	Having read and enjoyed Barbara Gibson's story about working with Rose Kennedy during the matriarch's later years -- and the related stories of the fun and foibles of the clan's grandchildren -- I anticipated a more in-depth chronicle here about the lives and significant contributions and problems of the grandchildren-generation of America's Kennedy clan.<br />It was a bloodbath.<br />Whereas Gibson sounds as though she enjoyed her job despite the frustrations of working in such self-centered and affluent milieu in her book about Rose, this book presents those same grandchildren as selfish, snobbish, hedonistic hellcats with thorough disregard for the lives of those around them... resulting from their sub-par parenting courtesy of their abused, neglected, drug-addicted folks and hell-bent-on-success grandparents.<br />This is a textbook of intergenerational blame.<br />The redeeming qualities of this book include its attempt at even handedness (for example, the author does note that with few exceptions, Maria Shriver did in fact earn her journalistic distinction on her own... and that Caroline and John Kennedy were basically good children, exceptions to the Kennedy rule) and its historical validity; based on my experience reading every other Kennedy biography I can get my hands on, most of Gibson's factual information is accurate.<br />However, allegations that Rosemary Kennedy never was retarded ring false to me (Gibson claims Rosemary was merely unacceptably mediocre as well as dyslexic... seems to me that other Kennedy children were similarly underendowed in priority areas, but no one wanted to lobotomize THEM -- except maybe Gibson herself).  The word &quot;hate&quot; and its relative &quot;hatred&quot; are flung around with reckless abandon, classifying everything from Ethel's feelings about her son David to Rose's reaction to Kym to Jackie's response to John Jr.'s potential acting career.<br />The author truly seems to hate this family, to use her already overused adjective.  Obviously, she anticipated a windfall of money to make such a distasteful book worth her time, or maybe her co-author bewitched her... but there are more judicious Kennedy biographies out there, ones that manage to highlight accomplishments of this very accomplished family without seeming to relish their weaknesses, proclivities, deviations, or vulnerabilities.<br />Get this from the library.used adjective.  Obviously, she anticipated a windfall of money to make such a distasteful book worth her time, or maybe her co-author bewitched her... but there are more judicious Kennedy biographies out there, ones that manage to highlight accomplishments of this very accomplished family without seeming to relish their weaknesses, proclivities, deviations, or vulnerabilities.<br />Get this from the library.	2001-07-30
US	52027319	R22YLDKSWD8KO3	0061091790	153058743	After All These Years	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Isaacs at Her Contemporary Best	This book is fabulous.<br />I don't agree with or endorse everything in it, but I have to confess, this is a great, great book to read.<br />First, it's funny.  The funniness is the most significant part of it.  How many stories about estranged dead husbands are funny, especially when the ex wife wishes he were neither dead nor estranged?  But Rosie, the heroine, is irrepressible... and that has nothing to do with the fact that we're both English teachers.  She is, in her own words, postmenopausal, and she's Jewish, while I'm neither.  But we both do have dark hair.<br />Anyway, Rosie's husband is dead, and the next best thing about the book is that he was murdered.  He was stabbed in the chest with a knife, and everyone thinks that Rosie did it, though all she wanted at that moment was a hot dog.  As the book evolves oh-so-deliciously, we learn that someone familiar to the deceased did in fact do it, but who?  The well paced and clever plot unfolds without wasting time nor skimping on details, and despite the fact that I'm a savvy voracious reader, the murderer was a total surprise to me.  Total.  Talk about a totally logical though well-concealed perp!<br />Isaacs liberal sensibilities are poured all over this tale, which do in fact conflict with my own perspectives, but I find it relatively easy to overlook the ideological differences I have with this book to savor its finer qualities.  The only other problem I have with it deals with Rosie's knight in shining armor... Isaacs never does spell out why he didn't ask her to the prom in high school.<br />Read it!  You'll love it.	2001-07-28
US	52027319	R3HF1KQ2VUT44E	0446673048	37153688	Guilty: The Collapse of  Criminal Justice	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Astonishing and Frightening	This book pulls no punches and contains no fancy words.  Harold Rothwax tells it like it is....<br />When the criminal justice system fails, and the obviously and often admittedly guilty go free to wreak more havoc on innocent citizens, we should feel outraged... and I'd guess that we do, when we hear about it as we do infrequently.  But the sympathy extended to the perpetrators of violent crimes is both misplaced and as wrong as the crimes themselves.  Rothwax, a judge, sees these decisions made routinely, as he deals with their aftermath.  He is outraged.  He is beyond outraged.<br />He makes a compelling case for a modification in our criminal justice system.  Criminal juries shouldn't need 100% agreement to deliver a verdict, which they already don't need in civil cases.  One lone kook shouldn't hold up what's obvious to a clear majority.  He suggests forgetting Miranda... if someone is screaming confessions, it's a CONFESSION.  What a lot of effort, time, and money those confessions save!  Getting criminals off on technicalities -- especially technicalities that lawyers search for painstakingly with the sole goal of getting their clients off -- is a perverse and morally reprehensible function of the court, and it should be inadmissable when the parties involved behaved with logic and discretion to the satisfaction of the court.<br />The cases that Rothwax cites, cases in which innocent adults and children suffered at the hands of a meticulous and ill-advised court, will break your heart and make you scream for justice.<br />For this is a book about justice.  It is not a book about law.  Unfortunately, the two diverge more than the American public would like to acknowledge.	2001-07-28
US	52027319	R32N9EPQ3T22AP	0195097831	650418931	Doing Grammar	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A Definitive Grammar Book	As an English teacher who used this book in college during my Structures of the English Language class (and an admitted grammar-o-phile), I can assure any prospective buyers that this book is both easy to understand and thoroughly comprehensive.  Presented in textbook format, it does require a little audience participation, but for the person wary of grammatical inadequacies, this is the book for you.<br />Morenberg approaches the diagramming (no! keep reading!) from a different perspective, namely a &quot;bottom up&quot; method, so readers understand the construction of the sentence the way they see contractors build a house... from the foundation to the roof.  Beginning with parts of speech (anyone can handle that, right?) and ending with the total sentence, you as a reader will learn all the names and labels and rationales in the language you use so effortlessly... what pitfalls exist, and WHY are they pitfalls?  Do you know all the verb tenses?  Do you know why it's wrong to end a sentence with a preposition?  It really is, too, and Morenberg will show you why.<br />Maybe you don't care.<br />But the hallmark of an educated person is the ability to use our language accurately.  Others notice grammar weakness even if you don't care (and you must just a little or you wouldn't be reading this review).  In my field, I've decided against hiring those who can't even speak properly in an interview, and I never ever patronize businesses with errors in their advertising or business literature.  It DOES matter.<br />This book is very, very simple to understand while, at the same time, tremendously valuable in its information and accuracy.<br />Go for it!  Let me know how you like it.	2001-07-28
US	52027319	R268D1LOT7QLL6	0446603589	426701570	Absolute Power	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Review from a Legal Thriller Afficionado	I read a LOT of books that try to do as this one... a righteous lawyer, youthful upstart type, fields unsurmountable odds in the pursuit of some tawdry character that leads him through some merry chase... and 99 times out of 100, the good guy wins unequivocally.<br />This book is different.<br />Oh, I won't be overly idealistic and say the story is completely fresh.  It's not.  Our protagonist is readily familiar as the tenacious youthful lawyer longing for seduction by the trappings of wealth and status.  Yet, he (predictably) has inclinations beyond his yuppie-princess fiancee and father-in-law-blessed business deals, namely in the form of one Kate Whitney, ex-girlfriend.  This character, who doesn't even appear in the movie version of this novel, is both likable and amusing, if interchangable with everyone from Mitch in The Firm to Butch Karp in the Robert Tannenbaum legal thrillers.<br />What makes this novel different is its scope.  The crime is different, the secondhand murder of a vapid and embarrassignly young D.C. matron by her extramarital stud, the President of the United States.  The sincere friendship between accused killer Luther Whitney (father of the aforementioned Kate, who was in the wrong place at the wrong time) and our hero is fun to watch, considering Luther is an accomplished cat burglar and the hero an attorney.  Kate's father-related angst rings true, as she has issues with how he earns his living and how it affected her childhood, adding a level of tension in the already-tense relationship with her otherwise-engaged paramour who LIKES her father.<br />The best thing about this book is that it never, ever stops.  The surprises come one after the other, and they are somehow believable beyond expectation.  What I mean by this is you neither anticipate nor dismiss the events of this book, events which fall over one another in a ceasless waterfall of action.<br />Don't relax.  That's when Baldacci clobbers you!<br />I recommend this book wholeheartedly.  Having read many par and even sub par legal novels -- even some by the same author -- this one stands out and alone as one of the best of the bunch.heartedly.  Having read many par and even sub par legal novels -- even some by the same author -- this one stands out and alone as one of the best of the bunch.	2001-07-27
US	52027319	R1BRI9H0LHE0F1	0440225825	43714370	Move to Strike (Nina Reilly)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The sixth -- and best -- Nina Reilly novel	This book represents the growth of Perri O'Shaughnessy (sisters Mary and Pamela) in both literary strength and daring.  This novel, the sixth in the series, represents a benchmark.  I get the feeling it's the novel they always wanted to write, but didn't... couldn't?... for infathomable reasons.  It's bolder, it's more direct, and in total, it's more real.<br />At the onset, the heroine, Nina, confronts the most basic of conflicts.  Her young son's friend is indicted for murder.  Nina arranges to defend the girl, then finds her instincts as a mother (to protect children... even indicted ones... but not at the expense of her own son) at odds with her responsibility as an attorney.  The young defendant is a dubious influence on Nina's son, but at the same time, free-spirited Nina sees herself in the girl -- and, as it is so often in real life, the &quot;right&quot; thing is impossible to determine.<br />Adding angst, Nina is grieving for her husband, a noble lawyer from previous novels whose death followed a marriage as brief as it was joyful.  Unfortunately, Nina believes the disgruntled former client who caused her husband's accident is still out to get her... and then there's also the murderer from this novel, too, as she believes her client is innocent.  Nina doesn't eat.  She just drinks coffee.  That doesn't help her relax... but who could blame her?<br />The supporting characters in this story also ring truer than in the past.  Accused murderer Nicole and her Tahoe showgirl mother, Daria, are just a bit over the top on one hand, but then imagine how a real, prodigiously bright high schooler would behave next to her ditzy Tahoe showgirl of a mother.  Also, the &quot;real&quot; murderer (you learn right off that Nicole did not kill anyone) is cleverly and ingenuously concealed in the story.  You can look for the murderer, and you will see the murderer... but I doubt you will recognize the murderer.<br />I liked this book the most out of all the Nina Reilly novels, although novel number 5 was also good.  Nina learns and grows in this novel, and the series is leaving behind its occasionally static chrysalis as the characters emerge into dynamically beautiful butterflies.ls, although novel number 5 was also good.  Nina learns and grows in this novel, and the series is leaving behind its occasionally static chrysalis as the characters emerge into dynamically beautiful butterflies.	2001-07-09
US	52027319	RI1W9CU9W69AW	0312242085	655034459	Kennedy Weddings: A Family Album	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beautifully written, beautifully laid-out	Although rather voyeuristic in its concept, this book is a lovely scrapbook of the nuptials of America's most famous political family.<br />The photographs are poignant and artful, and the text, while syncophantic, is illuminating with all sorts of wedding minutiae.<br />The only error I've found in the book is the omission of Robin Lawford in the family tree at the front of the book; all other Kennedy cousins are present in the tree, but Robin must have flown the coop.<br />You'll enjoy this book, if such books are your sort of thing.	2001-07-08
US	52027319	R17FBI4T80K5Z1	0380796104	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Read Bridget Jones's Diary Instead	This book disappointed me.  People who liked it must have very different standards than mine.<br />While I recognized the basic weaknesses in Keyes's first work, Watermelon, I enjoyed the book as an undemanding, marginally farfetched poolside froth. I expected something more satisfying with this book, her second, but it is the EXACT same story as Bridget Jones's Diary -- except THIS work is predictable from the word go [and] not funny....<br />In Bridget Jones, you ROOT for the characters... in this book, you want to cover your eyes as they back up for a running start to embarrass themselves...P>Trust me. This book is long, you know what the characters are going to do before they do it (which isn't difficult since all they do is waste time at work, drink to much, and sleep with everyone they can get their hands on... sounds Hemingwayesque, but trust me, it isn't), and even the happy ending fails to satisfy since you'll see it coming from Chapter One.<br />Remember: Bridget Jones, by Helen Fielding!	2001-06-23
US	52027319	RSDIWYZ508MT7	0446673544	656995955	Sex and the City	Books	1	11	15	N	N	Watch the Series	I bought this book because I find the series on HBO by the same title a shameless, provocative, entertaining, amusing romp through single life in a major metropolitan capital of high fashion, trendy vices, and tolerance for dubious lifestyles.  I love the series!  I own the first two seasons on DVD, even (check my reviews of the series, here on Amazon!)<br />But the book paints a painful and soulless art deco canvas of empty people trying anything -- and everything -- from sexual menageries to designer drugs to fill the haunting voids within them.  And it does it with no compassion, no reader investment, and no redemption.  For the book, let's hear one loud WHO CARES.<br />The characters are impossible to like (except for Stanford Blatch, who's not precisely the Stanford in the series, but who's still irrepressible with inconquerable joie de vivre... and Mr. Big, who's as logical, methodical, irresistible -- and emotionally unavailable -- as ever), and the decisions they make and mantras they espouse are ferocious, deviant, inherently risky, and dark.  They both turn and tick me off.  There is no camraderie here.  There are no positive connections between characters here whatsoever.  How can real people connect with these grime-stained cutouts?<br />Thank goodness I saw the HBO series first, because if I'd read the book first, I'd have avoided the series as I avoid the Ebola Virus.<br />Someone might argue that there are no characters in it with whom I can identify, which is why I don't &quot;get&quot; the book.  If that's indeed the case, I say bully for me!  There is no one here I would WANT to resemble or emulate... and honestly, I don't know or know of anyone who lives such a flashy, unsubstantial, risky, angst-filled life.  Thankfully.  Watch the series, though.  You'll love it.	2001-06-13
US	52027319	RZWIO79EITFM3	0312952716	231403284	A Simple Plan	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Dangerous Story	I really liked this book until the end.  This book is among the most literary contemporary fiction I've ever read; the author knows what he's doing when it comes to imagery and artistry with the English language, despite the juxtaposition of his rural redneck setting and milieu.  In this story, two brothers and one friend discover four million dollars in a crashed airplane -- and their combined lives &quot;hit the fan&quot; with the impact of the discovery on their lives and its resulting temptations.<br />Most fascinating in this story is the apparently soulless main character.  Without giving anything away, he illustrates flawlessly the human mind's ability to disassociate itself from its behavior... after the thrall of the protagonist, I find myself most fascinated by his wife, Sarah, the supposedly honorable recent mother (and dubious personification of all things good and nurturing?) who becomes a voice of justification and dismissal.<br />The rest of the characters are predictable but for the protagonist's take on them; in a way, the supporting characters provide the main character with a mirror reflecting his own skewed perspective and point of view.  The reflection is frightening and at the same time enthralling... kind of the way an accident is on the street.  You can't help but look, though you know you will look away.<br />This isn't a book for the faint-hearted, but it's a great book for fans of the macabre... and yes, I liked it until the end.  The ending didn't hold up the momentum and fascination of the rest of the story.  If I had my druthers, I'd tell the author how it SHOULD have ended... but c'est la vie.	2001-06-05
US	52027319	R2VXR8R0CUVQAK	0060929960	40354766	The Ten Commandments: The Significance of God's Laws in Everyday Life	Books	3	3	10	N	N	Educational but Not Readable	I have been haphazardly flipping through this book for three months, and while I thoroughly appreciate its wisdom and validity, I do not find myself compelled to curl up on the sofa with it and a cup of hot chocolate.  The book is well written.  It is fully elaborated and sound, but at the same time, it's hard hitting, a heavy chunk, textbook-ish more than reading-book-ish.  I do indeed endorse this interpretation of the Ten Commandments according to modern life... but I fear that most people may lack the stamina to support its no-holds-barred style.<br />Of course, the reason that I find the book daunting is because I expected something more along the lines of Dr. Laura's first book, The Ten Stupid Things Women Do to Mess Up Their Lives, a book that combines a hard-hitting message with a upbeat, cheery, &quot;you can do it&quot; voice.  This book lacks that positivity.<br />Therefore, I gave the book three stars because of my disappointment... but I realize that it's a good book nonetheless, and it's worth reading.	2001-06-05
US	52027319	R1XRHR33FEVQ6Y	0380778556	39495389	Rebecca	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fabulous, Fabulous, Fabulous	You will like this book IF:  You like well written stories.  You enjoy real, not dippy, suspense.  You adore books with surprise twists.  You hate classics but read voraciously.<br />This book IS a classic, but if all classics were like THIS one, no one would fail high school English anymore.  The word choice is fantastic.  The story evolves with such sophistication, it happens almost without the reader's awareness.  The characters are enthralling, as is the perspective of the heroine, whose mystery is so thorough as to include even her name.<br />You like good books?  Read this one.  'Nuff said.	2001-04-24
US	52027319	R105ZG82T5BEG1	0399144439	199675954	The Onassis Women	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Pleasant	I've read almost all the Jackie books on the market, and what I most appreciate about Moutasatsos's book is the way she acknowledges the rumors and innuendos of other authors while putting forth her perspective as exactly that -- nothing more.  While her memory is generous, she also strikes me as honest; she really loved her employers, so she saw them as noble, honorably-intentioned people with understandable flaws.  I would recommend this book to anyone who's tired of the unceasing merry-go-round of Onassis-related rumors who wants to hear about this family from someone near it but not of it.  Also, Moutsatsos, with co-writer Phyllis Karas, tells her story in lyrical English I can only guess was translated from the native Greek... resulting in a particularly musical and poetic narrative, quite an exception for a translation.<br />This book got four stars from me, not five, merely because there IS a bit of fairy tale stardust sprinkled through it... Moutsatsos does come across as a bit of the Onassis groupie, her only failing.	2001-04-22
US	52027319	R21SW4OXGR517K	0553561375	65494243	The Jewels of Tessa Kent	Books	1	12	14	N	N	UGH UGH UGH!	Is it me, or are Judith Krantz novels becoming more tedious with the passage of time?  Is my one guilty literary pleasure petering out?  First, there was the unparalleled Cinderella-ism Scruples, a sample of rich excessiveness, indeed the book that gave hedonism a new name, for which thousands of readers rejoiced.  Princess Daisy continued the pattern of Krantzism... outrageously beautiful heroines, both wicked and noble men, unyielding evil and brutishness by way of conflict, and the eventual emergence of the woman victorious... easily identifiable and tantalizingly reliable.<br />So what's happening?  The Jewels of Tessa Kent didn't hit one resonant note.  The Jewels of Tessa Kent, in fact, seemed to be a bit of fluff more along the lines of that old chestnut Danielle Steele (who I believe fully writes her books by tape recorder off of the top of her bouffant head) instead of a finely honed Krantz-terpiece.  I remember feeling that way about Spring Collection and that other Krantz novel, the one with the photographers that was so insipid I can't even remember the title.<br />Frankly, the only good thing to come lately off of the pen of Judith Krantz is her autobiography, Confessions of a Nice Jewish Girl.  Want to read some Krantz?  Read THAT.  Skip THIS.	2001-04-22
US	52027319	R1WL29ZVZ3I9EK	0380796090	962133592	Watermelon	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Uh, well...	I liked this book.<br />Despite the fact that I found it unbelievable and wanted many times to smack various characters, this book is perfect for the day at the pool with a margarita in one hand and a novel in the other.<br />For much more than that, I fear it will fall short.<br />I get the sense that the author sat down and made up the entire story as she went along.  The majority of characters are caricatures of old standards, and they all contain that particular quirk or eccentricity particular to characters in novels of British origin.  But they are funny.<br />It's froth, of the type found on milkshakes.  But then, an occasional milkshake isn't such a bad thing.	2001-04-22
US	52027319	RXCBD15P841Q4	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting Relationship Novel from the Male Perspective	This is the masculine Bridget Jones.<br />Really.<br />There's not much more to say!  This guy, while British and not really familiar to me on that basic cultural level, does indeed seem afflicted with the identifiable young-adult syndrome experienced by both sexes which crosses boundaries of time and space.  While Bridget (whom I really do see as his feminine literary counterpart) smokes too much and drinks too much and ruminates too much to deal with her intrinsic insecurities, this guy does what many guys do to find similar consolation: buys records, talks to his lame buddies, and pines for women, especially the object of his affection who formerly rejected him.<br />It's funny.  Men would like it.  Occasionally, I found myself irritated by the unerring stupidity of some of the characters; while I'm sure the author did that on purpose, I found it annoying enough nonetheless to eliminate one star.	2001-04-22
US	52027319	R34IW6VZGYVPH4	0446605336	943154518	My Sergei: A Love Story	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Fabulous True Story	I am a biography nut, and this is a beautifully told story of the two tragic Russian skaters, the one who met his death and the one he left behind.<br />While I would not recommend this novel for a young person to read without a parent preview (for I do not morally or practically endorse as an example the way these two skaters lived their lives and made their decisions), the utter romance and international backdrop of this memoir create such a sense of mystery, unity, and exoticism... and so much joy... that is almost a privilege to read Ekaterina's version of their story.<br />I have been a fan of this duo ever since I saw their first Olympic competition, with those royal blue uniforms, on the tiny kitchen TV in my childhood home... and now, as a woman just one month younger than Ekaterina herself, I can appreciate her as a person who's emerged reluctantly victorious over trials borne of tremendous accomplishment and love.	2001-04-22
US	52027319	R2XYB000BUAEUO	0446358576	933629582	Cathedral	Books	4	3	4	N	N	DeMille Does It in Third Person!	Finally!  I knew he could do it.  DeMille wrote a great read in the third person!  I am picky, and this book fulfilled most of my lofty expectations.<br />I gave only four stars for a preference of mine.  I like the occasional shot of humor in books.  I know that so serious a story as this (IRA bombings and hostages are not subjects of the lighthearted) are known more for their suspense than their tickles, but the occasional moment of levity wouldn't necessarily distract from the impact and value of the story; indeed, it might serve to break the tension so that the reader obtains a well-deserved break in between shootings and bombings.<br />There are a lot of characters in this story, but deMille quite easily jockys them into positions of most important and trivial, so they don't serve to confuse the issues unnecessarily.  I would recommend this book.  Chances are you'll enjoy it.  It's not The General's Daughter, but it's not bad at all.	2001-04-21
US	52027319	R3MWLSY58QHSE1	0446607436	505793550	Jackie After Jack: Portrait of the Lady	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Readable Fluff	I will give this book the compliment of readability, but I hesitate to go further than that in its praise.<br />As a voracious reader of biographies, and having read all other Jackie novels I could get my hands on, I would rank this book as low to middling in its portrayal of the former first lady.<br />Granted, no one, even an autobiographer, can paint an entirely accurate portrait of a biographical subject, but this book does, I think, fall well short.  Do I think Jacqueline Onassis held Aristotle in contempt, as Anderson says?  I find it easier to believe Kiki Feroudi Moutsatsos's comments in her book The Onassis Women than those of Anderson; Mrs. Moutsatsos WAS quite closer to Ari and Jackie than Christopher Anderson ever was.  Do I think she slept with Marlon Brando?  I find myself more inclined to believe, for example, J. Randy Taraborrelli in his book Jackie, Ethel, Joan, as his account makes more SENSE than Anderson's... Jacqueline's character in THIS particular book screams with inconsistency.  I think that was Anderson's point, as she was a woman bereft and hunted.  However, considering the sum of Jacqueline as a biographical subject, this book's dissonance in the face of the greater context is difficult to reconcile.  But it is entertaining.	2001-04-21
US	52027319	R3IB2N2PZQJEZS	0446301582	714221261	Word of Honor	Books	3	2	11	N	N	Mediocre DeMille	I really enjoy Nelson DeMille books, but this one left me rather cold.  Perhaps it was the subject matter (the conflict was interesting, but I didn't engage well with the backdrop of the Vietnam War), or perhaps it was the perspective (I think this writer does his best work in first person), but this novel didn't please me the way I hoped it would.<br />The best writing, in my opinion, occurred in interchanges between the hero Ben and his wife Marcy.  We see that Marcy and Ben are together in spite of their problems and difficulties simply because they chose and choose to be, period... with their example, DeMille makes a fairly strong comment about adulthood and marriage.  I also loved Vincent Corva... more power to the successful Italian American!<br />However, the nun thing went nowhere despite considerable build-up, and the end left me with an almost deus ex machina dissatisfaction that I found disheartening after over 700 pages.  However, if war stories amuse you, and if you appreciate internal-conflict issues, this might strike you a bit more positively than it did me.  For my money, though, I'd go for The General's Daughter, if you want some snappy great DeMille.	2001-04-09
US	52027319	R3BIJ3XSM8TQGT	0451192575	75882587	Donnie Brasco: My Undercover Life in the Mafia - A True Story by FBI Agent Joseph D. Pistone	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not a Bad Read	I read a lot of books, and while I enjoyed the mood and tone of this novel as well as its plot, I found myself frustrated on two counts.<br />First, this true-life drama contains myriad characters all of whom have real names and nicknames or FBI names or undercover names... maybe a little glossary or something would have helped, as the sheer quantity of characters interfered with my ability to understand and therefore enjoy the story.<br />Also, and this is a &quot;personal beef,&quot; I wish that Mr. Pistone would have added a little more about the responses and reactions of his family to his career obligations than he did -- although I do understand that he omitted more information about them because of safety issues and because the story really isn't about them.  In fact, this guy allows practically NO personal responses whatsoever in his narrative... he hardly ever acknowledges to feeling fear, dispair, or frustration... only... anger.<br />Other than those take-them or leave-them flaws, the story is utterly fascinating.  It really is.  Not since Wiseguy have I enjoyed a true-life mafia book this much.	2001-03-27
US	52027319	R2GS4OZQ54Q76N	0446360856	38570142	The Gold Coast	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Really Fun Read	While I don't think this book quite measures up to the rollicking The General's Daughter (by the same author), this book does capture the same spirit and first person immediacy that I enjoyed so much there.  At times, this novel is a bit drawn out... but the ending more than makes up for THAT.  What an incredible story!  I think it's a novel worth the money and the time it takes to read it.  What more is there to say?	2001-03-27
US	52027319	R3KW4JDJ04NMR4	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	0	0	N	N	INCREDIBLE STORY!	If this story weren't true, I don't think I'd be able to believe it.  What makes this account even more fascinating -- besides the incredible events of the plot -- is his modest, forthright style lacking embellishment or exaggeration.  I loved the ending, too, and how it provoked in the author a mixture of both nostalgia and regret... regret, after conquering this king of all mountains....  I'm a total mountain-climbing ignoramus, but I just loved this novel, and I would recommend it for any voracious reader.	2001-03-27
US	52027319	R3HWCIBFLXDD25	0060929391	840941160	The Diana I Knew: Loving Memories of the Friendship Between an American Mother and Her Son&#8217;s Nanny Who Became the Princess of Wales	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	A Definitive Diana Book	I've read most of the Diana books on the market, and this one is my all time favorite.  The warmth, candor, and respect that Mrs. Robertson uses in describing her ongoing relationship with the late former Princess of Wales is refreshing (who else treats Diana with dignity anymore, anyway?), well paced (I can stay into it, even on the treadmill), and wholly respectable (staying exclusively in the realm of what Mrs. Robertson herself saw, learned, or experienced, and not crossing the line into lurid speculation, armchair psychology, or maudlin reflection).  This is an idea purchase or gift with anyone having an interest in Diana, and I would recommend it wholeheartedly as a sweet (I know it's an overused word, but it's the RIGHT word) tribute to the relationship from one mother to another and their friendship which spanned 17 years.	2001-01-08
US	52027319	R2K4YW44S65FRJ	0399146253	109258524	The Last Precinct (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	This is great for Scarpetta fans!	Without giving anything away... let me say that this book on its own might strike a reader new to Cornwell as very heavy and dark.  It's insidious, sometimes melodramatically dark and deep, and often dispairing... but that's taking it out of context.  For the readers who've been following Kay Scarpetta as Chief Medical Examiner of Virginia, you can place this book clearly and gracefully in the heart of Scarpetta's learning curve.<br />A successful, independent woman who's borne more than her share of life's trials in the face of an esteemed and satisfying career, the lack of authentic intimacy in her life finally begins getting to her.  Dr. Scarpetta's had meaningful relationships, meaningful friendships, and even a meaningful pseudo parent/child relationship... but she remains an island alone.  Her fight against death, impossible to win, dooms her to frustration and impotence, and in this book, this truth finally dawns on her.  Her job, her major source of confidence and connectedness, piroutettes against her in a crescendo of very personal loose-ends from previous stories.<br />I think the element of introspection in this novel makes it a pivotal story in the Scarpetta series.  However, I give it four stars because, as I said, it stands alone less strongly than it should for five.	2001-01-08
US	52027319	R336HPGT03C9MV	0553273221	370479952	April Morning	Books	3	37	43	N	N	A Teacher's Point of View	We use this book in our eighth grade language arts class, and while I agree with other reviewers that this isn't the Great American Novel, it does a terrific job with characterization (I don't know who back there thinks that Adam wasn't &quot;described&quot; enough, but his looks are irrelevant; his personality is clear, believable, and accurate from the context of his family and town).  The story, which I agree can be a bit stale, takes place over 24 hours, which is a neat gimmick.  The old fashioned attitudes and perspectives can put off some readers, but reading this book for the purpose of learning about the time period, the beginning of the American Revolution, and understanding that modern people aren't so very different from their forefathers does indeed save it.	2001-01-08
US	52027319	R2LVG996HSG670	0446364800	859674593	The General's Daughter	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This is Just a Fabulous Read	Entertaining.  Intriguing.  Thrilling.  This is a perfect example of modern pop fiction at its very best.  I have to confess that I haven't seen the movie... but after reading the book, I have absolutely no desire to watch someone else's version of this marvelous bit of storytelling.  I found myself positively aching to read faster and find out what was happening (which is in a way a bad thing, because sometimes I had to go back and reread parts I'd read in haste), but I'll tell you what... I am the most voracious reader I know, I chose this book with some trepidation, and it turned out to be a wholly fulfilling experience.  Read it!  See what I mean!	2001-01-08
US	52027319	R2KNDDSYJ12UKU	0446605239	430421115	The Notebook	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Tearjerker that Will Melt Even the Stoniest Heart!	I have to confess that when I read this book, I was in the car on a roadtrip with my parents.  I had a horrible head cold, and they were riding up front while I huddled in the backseat with this book.  Now, I NEVER cry at movies or books -- for heaven's sake, right? -- but by the time I was done with this beautiful love story, I was weeping furtively, concealing my tears under the sniffly guise of my cold.  This story is absolutely gorgeous.  I mean, this book violates absolutely every rule against melodrama, manipulation, or maudlin emotion, but it WORKS.  What can I say?  You grow to love these characters, and their story unfolds so tantalizingly and so carefully, your whole heart will become invested in their experiences and decisions.  The only thing now is that I dare not read the book again... I'm afraid my husband will come home and find me in a most satisfying heap on the floor, weeping inelegantly!  But see for yourself!	2001-01-08
US	52027319	R1772SKH5YW7Z1	0440224721	532391891	Obstruction of Justice (Nina Reilly)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good, Depending on What you Want	Entertaining, yes.  Believable... well, uh, perhaps this is better left unsaid.  There's just something beyond the pale in the predicament in this novel, which remains highly entertaining nonetheless.  Its characters are likeable, the plot straightforward, and the issues interesting.  This book is a good beach read or poolside froth, but for the readers committed to stories of simmering, complex motivations and labor-intensive research reeking of literary significance, this book is a bit too pop for you.	2001-01-06
US	52027319	R3BZ5UUHQJ1YB9	0060976497	143285820	Ten Stupid Things Women Do to Mess Up Their Lives	Books	5	19	26	N	N	Everything she says is true.	I find that people who don't like this book are those in whom it hits a too close to home.  This is not a man-slamming book, it's a women EMPOWERING book, helping all people, not just women, realize that they themselves have the power -- and the right and obligation -- to live up to a standard of decency, and to include in their lives others worthy of esteem and respect.  The ideas are clear, the examples are entertaining, and the style is brisk... it's a quick and easy read for all its big ideas and worthwhile suggestion.	2001-01-05
US	52027319	RIH7P7PFCKH37	0345429133	144220583	I Am Jackie Chan: My Life in Action	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	This book is terrific!	While Jackie Chan has lived a life that most Americans would hardly recognize, much less identify with, his life's story is immediately recognizable as a chronicle of triumph over adversity.  I most enjoyed his pervasive sense of humor, his candor, and his self-deprecating attitude.  I've always liked his movies, and now I'll like them all the more since I know what it was like for him to become the man he is.	2001-01-05
US	52027319	RQZK83LP7STK8	0440508088	677066492	The Nitpicker's Guide for X-Philes	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Great but occasionally annoying	This book really has it all for the nitpicker who loves minutiae, seasons 1 through 4.  My only issue with with this book is, occasionally, the author's &quot;annoyingness.&quot;  To him, his book represents an chance not only for him to point out details and errors in the episodes of The X-Files, but also to evaluate them -- and share his perception (and often unfunny jokes) with his captive audience.  This personal editorializing doesn't interest me, but I'm willing to bear it to learn of the fascinating inconsistencies, oddities of equipment and setting, and illogical leaps or related faux pas that the series commits -- and that I'd almost never notice without the pointing of his ever vigilant finger.	2000-07-09
