US	52038629	R31CBM4QBGI3VB	0321321928	260510804	C++ Common Knowledge: Essential Intermediate Programming	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Excellent Intermediate Text and Reference	I didn't enjoy reading Stephen Dewhurst's earlier book, C++ Gotchas, very much because the approach of teaching by showing you what can go wrong bothers me.  If you didn't know about some these particular gotchas before (by experience), does the vague understanding (that you get from reading about them) that they exist help protect you from them?  Maybe.  But trying to be aware of them all can just make you a more confused programmer; losing sight of your objective of good software design by trying to avoid all the pitfalls.  We can learn form others' mistakes occasionally, but I think we can learn a lot more by being taught with examples of how to do it right in the first place.  This second approach is taken by Dewhurst in C++ Common Knowledge.  It was very enjoyable to read.<br /><br />This is a great intermediate level text and reference for C++  programmers.  It deals with many of the concepts of C++ programming that C++ programmers must understand on the way from being a beginner to making effective use of the language.  It covers these concepts with clear examples and explanations in an increasing order of difficulty.  This book belongs on almost every C++ programmer's bookshelf  because, even if you know the material, the way it is presented in this book makes it easier to remember and review when needed.  Highly recommended.	2005-09-23
US	52038629	RLTC8B1UR0LRQ	0201721481	411641420	C++ Primer (4th Edition)	Books	5	168	171	N	N	4th Edition is Much Improved	It's too bad that Amazon has listed reviews here which apply to earlier editions of the book.  This 4th edition is a very different book than the 3rd or previous editions.  (Any review you see here prior to February 2005, when this edition was printed, doesn't apply to this book.)  The front cover of this book says that more than 450,000 programmers have learned C++ from previous editions.  I wasn't one of them, though I bought and started to read 2 previous editions in the attempt to be.  I already new C very well and the approach taken in those editions bogged me down in too much detail that I already knew.<br /><br />This 4th edition is a tremendous improvement over the others.  The material has been completely reorganized and updated and is much more effectively presented.  The text is sprinkled with highlighted tips, notes, warnings, and best practices that not only helpful in learning the material but in applying it well.  Each chapter is summarized at the end and has a glossary of  important terms and concepts.  Exercises at the end of each section make this book a good candidate for classroom use as well as individual study.  They even knocked 300 pages off the length of the 3rd edition!<br /><br />If you want to learn C++ thoroughly and well using just one book, this is the book to buy.	2005-04-28
US	52038629	R15GIVZDI3K67L	0877842981	246465739	The Message of Genesis 12--50 (Bible Speaks Today)	Books	2	3	5	N	Y	A Bit Disappointing	I've read some of the other commentaries in this series and they generally make good devotional commentaries, but this one was disappointing.  The author does not provide much in the way of insight or application beyond what you can read in the text of Genesis 12-50 itself.	2005-04-19
US	52038629	RCQTN276XHMCF	0321246950	744036228	C++ Without Fear: A Beginner's Guide That Makes You Feel Smart	Books	5	65	67	N	N	A Very Good Start for the Beginner	There are many \\"beginner\\" books on C++, but many of them assume some proficiency in C or another programming language.  If you're new to programming (or have some background in C) and want to learn C++, you will do well with this book.  The author doesn't make you learn all the features and syntax of C++ before getting started.  He starts you writing useful programs right away and explains how things work in simple language and with the help of very good illustrations.  The book also focuses on the core language, the basics of C++ that will not only get you writing useful programs, but will prepare you well for the more advanced features that this book doesn't cover (templates, STL, generic programming).  Don't have a compiler?  The CD contains GCC, the GNU Compiler Collection C++ compiler.  This compiler is standard for Linux and Mac OS X and is available free for MS Windows and many other computing environments.  This book doesn't lock you in to writing Windows-only software.  Overall this is a very good beginner book for learning C++.  There may be more comprehensive books (Bruce Eckel's \\"Thinking in C++ is very good, but it comprises 2 volumes each with twice as many pages as this one.) but this one is a very good way to get your feet wet before going on to others.<br /><br />Why should a beginner learn C++ instead of another language that is supposedly \\"easier\\" to learn or more popular?  There are several good reasons, but here are a few:  First, C++ isn't really that hard to learn.  C++ was build upon the C language.  It adds many advanced features to C and was first adopted by programmers who were already experts in C.  For a long time it was thought that it was best to learn C first before moving on to C++.  But that's just the C programmer's bias.  Until recently, few people have taken the time to think about a beginner's approach to learning C++ directly.  I'm glad to see that changing.  Second, C++, in spite of all it's quirks, is probably the most powerful and versatile general purpose programming language.  You can do anything with it.  It supports 3 programming models (procedural, object-oriented, and generic programming).  All have very useful applications.  Finally, learning to program in C++ will get you closer to the machine than virtual machine languages like Java and C#.  You'll learn more about how a real computer actually works while writing faster running programs in a high-level language.  The C++ relationship to C is an asset, not a liability, since the C Standard Library and system APIs are ubiquitous.  The C++ Language, and the compilers that support it, have continued to improve over the years and will continue to improve in the future.  There's not a lot of industry hype behind C++ partly because many software companies and consultants make more money selling supporting software and services for Java and .Net.  Time will tell how well these newer technologies really serve their early adopters.  (The jury is still out, I think.)  C++ is a good investment.  There is quite a variety of open-source, free software libraries (including GUI programming) and software frameworks that support it. C++ isn't the only computer language you should learn, but it makes a very good foundation for learning others that may be more effective for certain kinds of applications.rful and versatile general purpose programming language.  You can do anything with it.  It supports 3 programming models (procedural, object-oriented, and generic programming).  All have very useful applications.  Finally, learning to program in C++ will get you closer to the machine than virtual machine languages like Java and C#.  You'll learn more about how a real computer actually works while writing faster running programs in a high-level language.  The C++ relationship to C is an asset, not a liability, since the C Standard Library and system APIs are ubiquitous.    The C++ Language, and the compilers that support it, have continued to improve over the years and will continue to improve in the future.  There's not a lot of industry hype behind C++ partly because many software companies and consultants make more money selling supporting software and services for Java and .Net.  Time will tell how well these newer technologies really serve their early adopters.  (The jury is still out, I think.)  C++ is a good investment.  There is quite a variety of open-source, free software libraries (including GUI programming) and software frameworks that support it. C++ isn't the only computer language you should learn, but it makes a very good foundation for learning others that may be more effective for certain kinds of applications.	2004-12-27
US	52038629	R3B8IFBSA7W5TD	0201760428	722219002	Exceptional C++ Style: 40 New Engineering Puzzles, Programming Problems, and Solutions	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Yet More Exceptional C++	This book is a great addition to Herb Sutter's previous two \\"Exceptional\\" C++ books.  It follows a very similar question and answer format that helps the reader think  about a problem before being given the answer and so is more effective in helping you learn than are some other books.  It gives very clear and concise answers to each problem with guidelines drawn from each lesson highlighted throughout the text that help you remember the main points.<br /><br />The only problem now that I have is, with all three of these books on my shelf, it takes longer to figure out where I read something of on a particular topic.  The topical sections of each book overlap (E.g., sections covering exception eafety, memory managment and inheritance appear in all three books.) and they are all written at the same level of difficulty overall.  The later books do make plenty of references back to the earlier ones as well as some other very good C++ books but this material would be better organized in one volume rather than three.  Perhaps they should have been published as three editions of the same book rather than three separate books.  That's the only thing I can think of that would have made them more useful.  Even so this book, like the other two, is very good exercise for keeping C++ programming skills sharp.  Well done!	2004-11-11
US	52038629	R3NZJ96O0VY6M7	0830816380	390460067	The Optimism Factor: Outrageous Faith Against the Odds	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Very helpful and encouraging	This is a very helpful and practical book for any Christian who struggles with disappointment, discouragement or failure.  Blaine Smith gives some very sound and biblical reasons for optimism that offer encouragement and hope without promoting false promises or  unrealistic expectations.  Highly recommended.	2004-09-13
US	52038629	R11ZZHZBYWONW4	1576834719	277877784	Water from Stone: When "Right Christian Living" Has Left You Spiritually Dry	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Water from Stone	This book will help you understand the subtle ways that our Christian faith can become a bargain with God.  Are you living out your faith with the tacit assumption that, if you perform according to God's will, He will perform according to yours?  That if we live right, God will provide us a smoother running, more peaceful and secure life?  Sooner or later those assumptions will fail you.  When that happens your faith may fail with it.  M. Wayne Brown offers an adjustment of perspective.  Industriousness is a good and valid part of Christian living, but it should be peripheral to our faith.  At the core of our faith belongs a passion for the transformation of our character into a likeness of Jesus Christ.  Brown describes this process as consisting of stages of hope, truth, waiting and a new way of seeing.  Here life is a journey of intimacy with God, \\"who loved us because He is love, not to get results.\\"  We can learn to love God and others the same way, trusting Him to provide the spiritual sustenance (water from stone) that we need to love and serve God in the present, everyday circumstances of our lives as they are (not as we wish them to be).	2004-07-06
US	52038629	R35JD0K6KMZ3CV	0131013769	651708143	Parallel and Distributed Programming Using C++	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Excellent introduction to the topics.  Fills a real need.	C++ has no keyword support for parallelism.  One must rely on libraries for parallel and distributed applications in C++.  This turns out to be a good thing because the C++ programmer isn't stuck with only one concurrency model supported by the language.  Instead there are several standard options: POSIX (pthreads), MPI, PVM and CORBA.  This book relies on the new Single UNIX Specification Standard which encompasses the POSIX standards for UNIX/Linux. You won't find anything in here that is specific to Microsoft Windows programming or the WIN32 API.<br />This book is a thorough and readable introduction to its topics.  Its main strength its emphasis on design.  Parallel and distributed applications are becoming the norm and doing them right impacts every phase of the software development process.  Good, up-front design is necessary to avoid the serious problems one can encounter in this environment. The authors do a very effective job in helping the reader to first think about the problem they are trying to solve in terms of the inherent complexities and problems that parallel programing has over the sequential programming model that many programmers are used to.<br />Coverage of each topic in the table of contents is very well done.  It offers just the right amount of background information, code examples and well designed diagrams and tables to give the reader a good understanding of concepts and good design, not just a &quot;how to&quot; explanation.  UML diagrams are put to good use.  There's a small appendix covering the UML notation used in the book and a larger one that contains manual pages for the POSIX API for process and thread creation and control.<br />Overall an excellent book.  It would make a good textbook for students and a good tutorial and reference for experienced programmers.	2004-04-06
US	52038629	R2B3688T6WDZ4P	0800786688	398819518	Life Sentence	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Read it after &quot;Born Again&quot;	If you haven't read Chuck Colson's first book, \\"Born Again\\", you should read that one before \\"Life Sentence\\".  This book continues the story begun in Born Again with the events surrounding the beginning of the Prison Fellowship Ministries.  The sad truth is that prisons don't rehabilitate those who break the law.  More often than not they produce criminals who are more hardened and more of a menace to society upon their release from prison than when they entered.  Prisons are often overcrowded, dehumanizing and dangerous.  I think it's safe to say that Prison Fellowship and its sister organizations have done more to reform prisons and the criminal justice system than any other single organization.  They have demonstrated a powerful combination of the Evangelical and Social Justice traditions of Christianity to redeem lost souls and wasted lives.<br />This book is very honest and humble as well as inspiring.  Chuck Colson is honest about his own failings and those he sees among  Evangelical Christians (with whom he identifies).  He was often treated very badly by the news media and others, but his love for prisoners and commitment to Jesus Christ allow him to take such incidents as lessons from a loving God to help him grow in character and in spirit.  Chuck Colson's example of love, devotion and integrity should be considered carefully by everyone.  Even after 25 years this book is well worth reading.	2004-03-19
US	52038629	R3DAK5SHFUKUAK	0800786335	818861786	Born Again	Books	5	64	65	N	N	Could anything good come of Watergate?	It's been 30 years since the events of Watergate started making history.  A whole generation has grown up largely unaware, I suspect, of the significance of those events.  I've followed Chuck Colson's work and writing almost since the beginning of Prison Fellowship and have developed a tremendous respect for the man.  But only recently have I bothered to go back and read this book which tells how it all got started.  I should not have waited so long.<br />This is the very inspiring and honest story of Colson's early career as chief counsel, confidant and friend to President Richard Nixon.  As an insider, he gives his own account of the Watergate scandal and an honest confession of his own wrongdoings.  This is also the story about how God can change the life of a man caught up in the corrupting influence of political power and bring great good out of evil.  Since he was not directly involved in the Watergate doings, Colson probably could have easily avoided being convicted and sent to prison.  But his encounter with Jesus Christ and conversion to Christianity strengthened his conscience and led him to plead guilty to an unrelated crime that he did commit.  He went to prison and saw a different side of the \\"law and order\\" society that the Nixon Administration sought to promote.  Even through the fear and despair of those times, the power of God became even more evident to Chuck Colson while in prison.<br />This is an amazing account of how a life submitted to Jesus Christ can reconcile enemies, create strong bonds of friendship, and heal terrible wounds in the hearts of both the rich and powerful and the poor and helpless.  It's wonderful to read.  If this book has an impact on you, then you will also want to read its sequel, \\"Life Sentence\\".	2004-03-14
US	52038629	R1E8HM1RC6G42H	1576830500	834856334	Listening to God: Using Scripture As a Path to God's Presence	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Let Scripture Examine You	This book is an excellent introduction to the spiritual discipline of lectio divina (divine reading) of Scripture.  The book is divided into six parts of five sessions each.  Each part has a common, well chosen, theme from Scripture.  The book can easily be used in groups or individually.  This is a spiritual discipline that every Christian should have some experience with.  Many Bible study guides encourage you to dissect Scripture to understand its meaning, intent, bacground, context, etc.  This is important and has its place.  But lectio divina helps us let God's Word study us.  It lets God form our character through reading, meditation, listening, and prayer.  The steps outlined for each session may seem repetitive, but this is important for practice.  By the end of the book the process comes naturally.	2004-03-05
US	52038629	R3I6E6CJR0TX9M	0321193687	701144034	UML Distilled: A Brief Guide to the Standard Object Modeling Language (3rd Edition)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Much Improved 3rd Edition	Previous editions of this book were very useful but contained some obvious flaws.  The 1st edition was hastily put together when UML was new and the 2nd edition was a relatively minor update to keep up with changes to the UML Standard.  This 3rd edition is a major overhaul of the book and is a significant improvement.  Lot's of new material has been added to bring the book up-to-date with UML 2.0.  Most of the chapters have been rewritten and reorganized into a more useful sequence.  The rewrite benefits from Martin Fowler's recent experience teaching classes on UML.  I'm glad to see that  chapter 11 \\"UML and Programming\\" in the 2nd edition has been removed.  It was the least useful part of the book and the space has been better utilized in the 3rd edition by focusing on more specifically on UML and the added material for UML 2.0.  This book is worth the price to \\"upgrade\\" from previous editions.	2003-10-13
US	52038629	R1KKLUZ00AQNAO	1578564182	845471246	Long Journey Home: A Guide to Your Search for the Meaning of Life	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A Journey Worth Making	This book is a very fine distillation of wisdom applied to the \\"big questions\\" of life's meaning and purpose.  Os Guinness takes the reader on a tour of how the world's major religions and some of its greatest thinkers have wrestled with questions of ultimate significance.  How does death and human suffering affect our sense of hope and longing for purpose and meaning for our lives?  What is the place of gratitude for life's goodness?  What principles are worth living and dying for?  There are no prepackaged answers to these questions, of course.  But whether or not we are to believe there is an answer and what road we take to lead us there are crucial steps in the journey upon which we are all embarked.  Whether we conscious of it or not, life is taking us somewhere.  When we get to the end, will we look back on our journey with satisfaction and fulfillment or with a sense of shame and loss?  For those who feel that an unexamined life is not worth living, this book is provides much to consider.  Philosophy and Religion are not an intellectual game we can play with detachment and control over the outcome.  The questions are bigger than we are and the Answer must be bigger still.  The implications of the search for your life's meaning, if you follow it honestly enough, will end up handling you rather than you handling them.  Are you ready?  Then read on...	2003-10-12
US	52038629	R39K7HI7WLHT1S	1581344600	641355416	The Holy Bible: English Standard Version, Deluxe Reference Edition	Books	5	72	77	N	Y	What the NRSV Should Have Been	I enjoyed reading the RSV for many years but was disappointed with the NRSV for its lack of consitency and its awkward implementation of &quot;inclusive language&quot;.  The ESV is a very well done updating of the RSV.  It retains the literalness, accuracy and eloquence of the RSV while updating the language to modern usage.  It takes a more consistent and sensible (in my opinion) aproach to inclusive language.  I always found the NIV language to be too simplified and the NASB too rigid.  The ESV reads beautifully (even better than the NKJV) and has become my preferred translation over the many I have tried.  Finally, a suitable replacement for my old, beloved RSV.  I was also glad to see that this edition does not have a red letter New Testament.  Somtimes its hard to find a nice bible that isn't red letter.<br />This black genuine leather bound edition seems to be very durable.  The gold-edged paper is strong and thick enough so that the printing on the reverse side of a page doesn't bleed through much.  It has wide margins and the print is easy to read.  I expect (and hope) it will last for many years of daily reading.  It comes with pretty good CD-ROM software that lets you quickly look up passages on the computer (It would be nice if there were a Mac version instead of just Windows) and cut &amp; paste them into a word processor.	2003-08-30
US	52038629	R2Q2UUHE8ST94G	0151836000	47509404	A Soldier of the Great War	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Beautiful Book	This is one of the most beautifully written novels that I have ever read.  Many people will tell you how great book is by saying how they just couldn't put it down and stayed up all night to finish it.  For me, this wasn't that kind of book.  It didn't possess me.  It inspired and uplifted me.  I've spent the last year reading through it off and on.  I wanted it to last, and I'm a little disappointed to have finally finished it.  Most often I was content to put the book down after 20 or so pages and simply let the images of its wonderfully described events, adventures and scenery fill my mind.  They stayed with me.  I could leave the book alone for several weeks when I was too busy to read and feel right at home again with it when I got back to it.  I often read this book before bed and it helped be sleep.  Not because it was dull and boring, but because it relaxed and refreshed my mind.  This story has tragedy, humor, love, adventure, fantasy and philosophy all gracefully woven together into a truly wonderful story.	2003-08-13
US	52038629	R2V1Y6LF6PSZAB	0842369082	298399623	A Tale of three Kings: A Study in Brokenness	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Broken Hearts are Better	This book is a very insightful dramatization of the contrast in character quality found in three Old Testament kings: Saul, David and Absalom.  If you are familiar with the biblical story of these three kings (in the books of 1st and 2nd Samuel) you'll be impressed with how true this character study rings and how applicable its lessons are for today.  What makes a good king (or leader)?  Is it possible to attain good leadership qualities by one's own effort?  When and how is opposition to a bad leader justified?  This little drama brings out some profound answers to these questions.  Very thought provoking and heart wrenching.	2003-07-10
US	52038629	R1UKP60ZCQ17I6	0201615622	30914504	Exceptional C++: 47 Engineering Puzzles, Programming Problems, and Solutions	Books	5	14	14	N	N	An Exceptional C++ Book	This book is a very valuable addition to any intermediate or advanced C++ programmer's library. The organization is similar to Scott Meyers' very good &quot;Effective C++&quot; books in that they are organized into brief &quot;items&quot; dealing with specific problems that C++ software developers face. The items are helpfully grouped into sections on generic programming and the C++ standard library, exception safety, memory management, etc. Beyond that its hard to compare this book with Meyers' books; they are complementary in many ways. But I think the &quot;Exceptional C++&quot; books have some advantages over Meyers' books: Each of the items begin with a puzzle to solve. This gets the reader more actively involved in the subject matter and brings it into sharper focus (Meyers tends to lose your focus by rambling a bit). Once you've had a chance to think about the presented problem, there is a clear and concise explanation of both the problem and a well considered solution. Each explanation is highlighted by concise &quot;guidelines&quot; and &quot;common mistake&quot; statements. (I wish these were summarized and indexed in one place for quick reference.) The emphasis is on writing clear, simple, reliable code; not on clever solutions to tricky problems. This book is a distillation of discussions that took place in the &quot;Guru of the Week&quot; Internet forum and so is a product of the thinking and experience of many exceptional minds. &quot;Exceptional C++&quot; will help any serious C++ programmer toward better code design.  It's well worth the time to read it.	2003-06-13
US	52038629	R1J5YLF3OJFWIW	0874869269	448256994	Bread and Wine: Readings for Lent and Easter	Books	5	67	68	N	N	A Wonderful Collection	\\"For Breadth of scope and depth of insight nothing rivals this collection\\", says on the dust jacket.  I heartily agree!  This collection of readings is the best supplement to Lenten and Easter devotional reading that I have ever used.  I've never seen such a selection of great authors' writings between the covers of one book.  Each of the 72 selections are about 4 or 5  pages long.  They are grouped into 6 sections that form a progression from the Invitation prepare for Easter by seriously examining oneself and following through on the themes of Temptation, Passion, Crucifixion, Resurrection and New Life.  There are quite a variety of perspectives represented in these writings. Every one of them will reward the thoughtful reader in different ways.  There isn't a dull one in the bunch.  These aren't shallow \\"inspirational\\" writings.  They will challenge and encourage, and sustain serious reflection.  It's hard to pick a favorite, but I'd say that Malcolm Muggeridge's \\"Impending Resurrection\\" was the high point.  I highly recommend this book.	2003-06-08
US	52038629	R29S23WZLN7ODK	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	2	4	N	N	An Enriching Experience	Anyone who hasn't read this classic novel should read it.  Harper Lee tells a wonderful story, through through the memories of a child, passing important lessons on to the reader about growing up, overcoming fears and prejudices, trusting others, fairness and justice.  The story is told with wit, charm and grace.  It addresses the problem of racism in a way that exposes its evil and ugliness while also illuminating and nurturing the dignity possessed by all human beings.  If you've only seen the classic movie (starring Gregory Peck) you know much of the story, but you've missed quite a lot in the telling.  The movie can only be fully appreciated by those who have first come to know and love its characters through having read the book.	2003-06-03
US	52038629	R15O2ZEC549DFS	020165783X	701144034	UML Distilled: A Brief Guide to the Standard Object Modeling Language (2nd Edition)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A Good Distillation and Reference	I read the 1st edition of the book several years ago and this 2nd edition just recently.  This book is a very good summary of the most commonly used UML diagrams and notation.  It's a handy refresher for those who have already studied UML in detail and need a quick, practical reference.  It may also work for those who are unfamiliar with UML, but need a quick primer on how to read UML diagrams.  It's much less effective as a tutorial for using UML.  The writing is clear and concise.  Chapter 2 is a good summary of the development process, touching the high points and offering some useful tips.  (The author recommends Craig Larman's book &quot;Applying UML and Patterns&quot; for a more in-depth introduction to Unified Process.  I agree with that recommendation.) Chapters 3 - 10 (which cover the diagrams and notation) are the most useful. Chapter 11 &quot;UML and Programming&quot;, is not very effective in trying to bridge UML work to programming.  It either needs more detail, or should have been omitted entirely.  Its primary accomplishment seems to be the author's facetious intention to &quot;get Java into this book somehow&quot; (p. 148).	2003-05-23
US	52038629	R2JBNU392SBFRP	0130925691	576001953	Applying UML and Patterns: An Introduction to Object-Oriented Analysis and Design and the Unified Process (2nd Edition)	Books	4	25	28	N	N	Very Good Introduction to OOAD, Patterns and UML	This is a very good introductory level text on object-oriented software analysis and design, software patterns and the Unified Modeling Language (UML).  I used this book to study for a certification test, but its worth reading even if you don't have a test hanging over your head.  The writing is clear and the book is well organized with many useful diagrams and tables.  Larman guides the reader through the most important phases of a software project using a point of sale (POS) system case study.  The case study is well chosen because its problem domain is familiar to most people and it has enough interesting aspects to illustrate the use of the Unified Process, application of design patterns and the UML very well.  Time reading this book will be well spent.  You will not only bet a better understand of how to use the process and tools, but also why and when they are useful.  I have only two minor criticisms:  The index seems inadequate making it a little harder than necessary to use as a reference, and its bias toward the Java programming environment when reference is made to implementation specific issues.	2003-05-23
US	52038629	R1E9QJ3B87MRR2	080281428X	464583078	Letters to an American Lady	Books	3	21	21	N	N	A Unique Personal Glimpse at C. S. Lewis	This book is a collection of letters written by C. S. Lewis to an American woman during the last 13 years of his life.  I found it pretty dull reading at first.  The book only contains Lewis' half of the conversation and most of the letters are pretty short or deal with trivial matters.  But, for those who are interested in a more of a personal glimpse of Lewis there are some interesting insights offered:  Like what he thought about what journalists have written about him in papers and magazines, his correspondence during the years of his marriage to Joy Davidman (and after her death), the heaviness of the load of correspondence he carried on with many people.  Lewis appears to have seen letter writing as more of a duty than a pleasure.  He often complained that the load of personal mail made his life miserable, especially at Christmastime.  Yet he seems to have faithfully read and answered all those letters.<br />Toward the end of the book the letters get more lengthy and and interesting.  I was particularly struck by Lewis' attitude toward dying.  He was able to look forward to his eventual death with a genuine hope and longing for the better world beyond these \\"shadowlands\\" and he was able to encourage this lady along those lines through the problems they both had with aging and poor health.  I hope such a mature attitude of faith will be mine also when my time comes.  It is the hallmark of a life lived for the glory and love of God.	2003-04-16
US	52038629	RGO9LU6S5NGH6	078795599X	52865741	A New Kind of Christian: A Tale of Two Friends on a Spiritual Journey	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Had to be written; should be read.	This book is a welcome invitation for modern evangelical and fundamentalist Christians to positively re-think what it means to be a Christian in our time.  Trust God and drop your guard when you read it.  It won't make a 'liberal' out of you.  The more liberal side of Christianity comes in for some good criticism in the book, but I don't think the book is written for them and I doubt they will be helped much by it.  One doesn't have to accept all the ideas this book offers to see that many of them ring true and may represent a call from God to be a \\"new kind of Christian\\".  Not so new really, but perhaps more focused on the timeless things that Jesus did and  taught which matter more than the trappings of modern day Christianity that can hinder the Gospel.  I suspect that many Christians will find reading this book a very liberating experience.  Perhaps they have been thinking along these lines already and the book provides some validation for their views.  Be careful.  Resist the temptation to gloat.  If this liberating experience is from God, its intended to lead to a more authentic practical faith-a transformation of your whole life-not simply a new set of 'superior' beliefs.  \\"... truth means more than factual accuracy.  It means being in sync with God.\\"	2003-03-17
US	52038629	R25NEBGESWNB79	0060628464	643714836	Prayer: Finding the Heart's True Home	Books	5	97	98	N	Y	An Excellent Guide to a Life of Prayer	This book is an excellent introduction to, and survey of, the practice and experience of prayer for Christians.  Richard Foster draws from many different traditions and experiences and distills them into this very fine and accessible work.  It's very practical, unpretentious and inspiring.  Foster helps us examine the many facets of prayer grouped according to three intentions on personal transformation, intimacy with God and ministry to others.  Among its 21 chapters you may find aspects of prayer that are very familiar to you (maybe you had never thought of them as prayer before) along with encouragement to focus and deepen your efforts in those areas.  Other types of prayer may be completely foreign to you but offer an invitation to explore.  For those who want to take prayer more seriously this book is a very good place to begin.  It is not an introduction in the sense of being superficial or shallow.  It treats each aspect of prayer in enough depth to get the willing reader well on his or her way to a more effective and vital life of prayer.  But it also shows us prayer as a vast, life long and life changing endeavor and points to the work of others who have explored the various disciplines of prayer more deeply.  This books is essential reading.	2003-03-11
US	52038629	R2CEY62GSZAL2D	0815773773	314789807	Religion in American Public Life	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Analysis. Balanced, Fair and Enlightening.	This book is essential reading for an informed perspective on the role of religion in American Public Life. Reichley does justice to the complex relationship between religion politics and human values. His typology of value systems provides a very useful framework for understanding the differing perspectives on the issue and avoiding simplistic characterizations of those who hold differing points of view. There is a very good examination of the intentions of the Founders of the USA and the proper interpretation of the First Amendment to its Constitution. The historical analysis covers the period of the founding of the USA up to the mid 1980's. It is balanced and fair and presents a good case for the vital and necessary role that religion must play in American public life within the context of the separation of church and state.<br />I see that the author has written more recent books that expand upon and update the material this book but, even as it is, this book contains much relevant and important material. Highly recommended.	2003-01-25
US	52038629	R3TS6NC1VNYNN8	0310206448	164456733	Preparing for Jesus: Meditations on the Coming of Christ, Advent, Christmas and the Kingdom	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Your were There: at the Manger ...	I enjoyed using this little book during this past Advent and Christmas.  Walter Wangerin Jr. has used his wonderful gift writing to give us a series of daily meditations that are a great help in focusing the mind, heart and imagination of the reader on the deepest significance of Christmas.  We follow the events of the first Christmas from with scripture accompanied by short writings, poetry and prayer.  Wangerin's writing varies between dramatization, exposition and application of the Christmas story to our lives.  If you relax and let the author and the Holy Spirit have their way, the book will help you break through the confusion and frenzied cultural activity that often accompany Advent and touch the deeper meaning of the season.  It doesn't drop you after Christmas Day but carries you through the 12 days of Christmas, gently releasing you at the beginning of Epiphany.  It will leave you feeling like you've been there: at the Manger and help you go and live out the significance of Christ's coming to us in your own life.<br />I highly recommend this book, I thought it was even more effective than Wangerin's similar--and also very good--book for Lent and Easter, &quot;Reliving the Passion&quot;.	2003-01-06
US	52038629	R2PC9NWBFOXC5Z	0830812407	536279091	The Message of Isaiah (Bible Speaks Today)	Books	4	45	48	N	Y	A Good Exposition of Isaiah	A while back I started reading through Isaiah again--one chapter a day.  I wanted to supplement to my reading with a commentary that would give me historical background and help me better understand this wonderful book in Scripture.  I wanted something that would help me apply the inspiration and insights of Isaiah to my own life.  I found this book well suited to the purpose of personal devotional study.  It is a fine exposition of Isaiah.  It provides enough material to clarify its message and put it in  context without getting the reader bogged down in technical details.  It treats the book of Isaiah as a unified whole rather than a fragmented collection of writings from 2 or 3 sources.  It is written from the conviction that God speaks to us through Isaiah today as well as He did to the prophet's primary audience.	2002-12-30
US	52038629	R1OAJBF5ZYMRFB	0156148633	235102368	The Business of Heaven: Daily Readings from C. S. Lewis	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A Good C.S. Lewis Sampler	This is a very good sampling of C.S. Lewis' writings on many different topics, from various previously published sources, broken up into digestible pieces.  If you've read most of Lewis' work and want to refresh your memory and meditate variously on their insights, this book might be helpful.  It might also be helpful for those who have very little exposure to Lewis and want to start with a shallow sampling before deciding where to dive in deeper.  Each selection has its source listed in the back. Please do go on to read some of the original sources.  A sampling like this doesn't really do them justice.<br />The only criticism I have of this book is about its format.  It's intended to be a devotional calendar with a reading for each specific date of a year with appropriate readings for special days in the church year.  I don't think it succeeds very well in this format.  For one thing the selections for the special days don't always seem relevant.  The feast of St. Andrew, for example, on November 30 doesn't have anything to do with that particular Apostle.  But the main reason it doesn't seem to work well as a devotional calendar is that long passages are often broken up into a sequence of separate sequential readings that span several days.  If you stick to reading each selection one day at a time, you could easily lose the train of thought and have to pick it up again each day.  There is no hint as to where one broken up passage ends and another begins unless you look at the list of sources in the back. I think the book would work much better if it were simply organized by topic into series of passages of varying lengths without trying to fit them in a daily calendar template.	2002-12-06
US	52038629	R1YYJA3KD652KU	0684813467	570390801	Joshua: A Parable for Today	Books	2	14	18	N	N	A Simple, Clear and Important Message in a Mediocre Story	I have some mixed feelings about this book. Portraying Jesus in a modern setting is risky business. Sometimes I think there's a little too much of Fr. Girzone in Joshua, but I'm sure that there is also plenty of Jesus in Fr. Girzone. He has a good and thought-provoking message, one that is simply and clearly stated (if often too repetitive) so that many people will be able to understand it and think seriously about it. As an elaborate parable, the story conveys some important messages.<br />The modern-day Jesus (Joshua) is a great artist and skilled craftsman. His portrayals of Moses and St. Peter in wood carvings have a powerful effect on on those who behold them. But the author's skill in telling a story does not do justice to the subject. Almost all of the characters seem like caricatures and much of the dialog seems artificial. The book resorts to describing the personality of its characters more than realistically portraying them. The story has some wonderful features. Joshua is far more readily accepted by Jews on his second visit than by Christians. The book presents this as a very plausible scenario. Yet Joshua's dramatic effect on the lives of specific individuals is more described than dramatized. The book fails to draw the reader in very deeply here. The story mainly (and too obviously) serves as a vehicle for Joshua's brief discourses on the current state of religion and Christianity in particular.<br />In the book Fr. Girzone expresses his view, through Joshua, that art should have a definite message. Yet art itself is a message; an expression of God's image and creativity through human effort. If the message in a work of art is strong, the quality of the art must be much stronger still in order to avoid its being dominated by the message. Art that is completely dominated by its message is mere propaganda. Joshua is worth reading for the message it conveys, but the story is too dominated by the author's message to be considered an effective medium.	2002-10-18
US	52038629	RRB020C1MI7TP	0802839819	677049071	Engaging God's World: A Christian Vision of Faith, Learning, and Living	Books	4	72	75	N	N	Educating for Shalom	Calvin College has their own special edition of this book, whose author is president of Calvin Theological Seminary. The book is required study for all 1st year Calvin students. I became interested in reading it after visiting Calvin this Summer. This book is a very fine statement of purpose for a Christian education from a Christian (Reformed) perspective. I expected a dry theological dissertation, but was pleasantly surprised to find the writing lively, clear and concise. This small book covers a very broad topic, but the author does a very good of generalizing and enticing the reader with references to more detailed works for further reading.<br />Many colleges and universities founded to serve Christian intentions have tended to fall into one of two extremes in their relationship to the world we live in. They either seek to provide a \\"safe\\" environment, insulating students from worldly influence, or they become indistinct from the world, compromising in an attempt to win acceptance and approval in the larger society. In this book Cornelius Plantinga Jr. attempts a vigilant third way. It is a Christian's calling to understand our world as God's good (though fallen) creation and to engage it and reform it according to a deep understanding of the implications of our Faith.<br />In this book, Plantinga articulates a Christian longing and hope toward the prevalence of \\"shalom\\" for the world in light of biblical understanding of the doctrines of Creation, Fall and Redemption. Then he goes on to discuss the implications of these for a Christian's vocation (or calling) to serve by employing his or her gifts and talents for the good of others and the revealing of God's kingdom. Shalom is a term that means far more than just peace of mind or the absence of war: \\"In the Bible, shalom means universal flourishing, wholeness, and delight -- a rich state of affairs in which natural needs are satisfied and natural gifts fruitfully employed, all under the arch of God's love.\\" Plantinga seems to have a good understanding of both the difficulties and the possibilities inherent in the fulfillment of such a vision. This is no utopian campaign where Christians try to force society in to a preconceived mold for an ideal world. Christians discern principals from Scripture and the application of them from the best insight they can gain into the needs of society. They respect the dignity of all human beings as being made in God's image and as having the freedom to accept or reject God.<br />A Christian education is not a commodity to help the student fulfill his or her own life's agenda. It is a tool with which to discover our unique place in God's world and to develop our ability to serve in that place to the glory and pleasure of God. I hope this book finds its way into the hands of many college students, faculty and administrators in the hopes that they may be inspired by it.antinga seems to have a good understanding of both the difficulties and the possibilities inherent in the fulfillment of such a vision. This is no utopian campaign where Christians try to force society in to a preconceived mold for an ideal world. Christians discern principals from Scripture and the application of them from the best insight they can gain into the needs of society. They respect the dignity of all human beings as being made in God's image and as having the freedom to accept or reject God.<br />A Christian education is not a commodity to help the student fulfill his or her own life's agenda. It is a tool with which to discover our unique place in God's world and to develop our ability to serve in that place to the glory and pleasure of God. I hope this book finds its way into the hands of many college students, faculty and administrators in the hopes that they may be inspired by it.	2002-09-29
US	52038629	R308GRNAC4MGE0	0201749629	629689852	Effective STL: 50 Specific Ways to Improve Your Use of the Standard Template Library	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Supplement to Introductory and Reference Books on STL	This book follows in the manner of Scott Meyers' other excellent C++ books (Effective C++ and More Effective C++).  It is divided into 50 &quot;items&quot; covering specific topics in using the Standard C++ Standard Library neatly grouped into 7 chapters on effective use of the containers, iterators and algorithms that make up the Library.  This is a very good supplement to more basic and comprehensive books like The C++ Standard Library, by Nicolai Josuttis. Meyers' book assumes you have a basic familiarity with the inventory and interfaces of the STL and shows you how to use the STL more efficiently, safely and clearly.  The book can be a little frustrating for those who just want a &quot;do it this way&quot; approach. Each item in the book takes you through the reasoning behind why it's better to use the STL in one way and not another. But, in the long run, this is a much more effective approach.  The &quot;why&quot; is as important has the &quot;how&quot;.  The book also contains plenty of crossreferences between items, so it makes a good reference when you are done reading it through.	2002-07-03
US	52038629	R2JEBCC4KVJ3RV	020161622X	158694092	The Pragmatic Programmer: From Journeyman to Master	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great Help Toward More Professionalism and Job Satisfaction	This book is an excellent distillation of practical experience and advice covering all phases of software development. While it's written mainly for the software developer, project managers will get valuable insight from the book on effective software development practice. The strength of this book is that it draws heavily from the authors' experience. Rather that promote a methodology, it promotes attitudes, values, tools and proven practices that will help anyone become a better software developer and make the job of software development more creative and stimulating. It's especially good for new software developers as it contains many lessons that experienced developers only learn the hard way. The book is well organized in easily digestible segments, with a very good cross reference system that makes it handy for repeated use. The appendix presents many valuable resources that professional programmers will want to explore.	2002-07-03
US	52038629	R2EM667BVW4ITG	0201379260	29748572	The C++ Standard Library: A Tutorial and Reference	Books	5	10	12	N	N	&quot;Must Have&quot; Reference for C++ Programmers	This book is excellent.  It succeeds equally well as a tutorial and a reference.  It has very extensive coverage of the C++ Standard Library (including Standard Templates).  Very well explained and organized.  You can read the book straight though or skip around.  Open the book anywhere and start reading and you won't get lost.  There are numerous cross-references to prerequisite topics right in the text.  There is a very useful quick reference at the end of each chapter and numerous tables and diagrams throughout.  Errors are very minor (probably corrected in later printings than mine).  Errata sheets are available from the publisher's web site.  This very valueable book fills an important need for C++ programers.<br />This book is not a beginner's text.  To quickly learn the basics of C++, look at Stanley Lippman's &quot;Essential C++&quot;.	2002-01-11
US	52038629	R34LKR6MV2NJ8D	0830819797	470038332	When God Interrupts: Finding New Life Through Unwanted Change	Books	4	45	46	N	Y	Losing your life in order to find it	A little over six years ago I started to experience as series of very disturbing &quot;interruptions&quot; in a life that I thought had progressed nicely up until that point.  Little did I know that M. Craig Barnes had just published a book that would help me greatly in making some sense of it all.  I'm glad to have found it.<br />Any Christian who has suffered a huge interruption in the life that he or she has expected to live will benefit from this book. Like it or not, most of us will be abandoned by many things we value in this life. Even the best things we have our only ours for a time. We stand to lose our material wealth, our health, our livelihood, people we love, and finally our very lives as such. Dealing with this grim reality requires a choice of perspective. We can devote our life's energies to trying to preserve our lives as we want, or hope, them to be. The fear of losing our self-made lives will rule our lives. Inevitably, loss will come. How will you take that loss? If the meaning you find in your life depends on your ability to keep it the way you want it, then the loss may come pretty hard. Alternatively, M. Craig Barnes presents a perspective based on Bible lessons and people's stories which can help us to see and appreciate the sum of our lives as an unearned gift from God.<br />Gaining this perspective requires a conversion process that goes beyond mental assent to certain doctrines or simple belief. It is when we are abandoned by things we hold most dear that the test of faith comes. Is it real, or is it mostly dependent on our having our lives the way we want them to be? Most of us will have more than one opportunity in our lives to find out. The good news is that, even if we can't have the life we wanted, God can show us a way to want the life we have. Sounds risky (and it is). But, no matter how much we have in this life, we will lose it all some day. Learning how not to worry about losing what we think we depend upon for our peace and security could be a long, uncomfortable process. But if being so focused on &quot;saving&quot; the kind of life we want is making us blind and ignorant to the better kind of life that God wants for us, then it is a risk worth taking. This is not to say that it's good to throw the nice things we have in life away. But I would like to be the kind of person who can lose those things when the time comes without too much regret and also use them (while I have them) to bless others in God's name. This can only happen if I truly believe that my life is the product not of my own will and struggle, but of an intimate and everlasting relationship with God.<br />This book is a good elaboration on what Jesus means by losing our life when we try to save it and finding it when we lose it for His sake (Matt. 16:25) and what it means to find the pearl of great value (Matt. 13:45). As Barnes says at the end of his book, &quot;People who have a God do not need to become one&quot;. This book will help you break the habit of trying to be your own life's savior and enjoy letting God do that for you. If you read this book and want more, I would also recommend Philip Yancey's books &quot;Disappointment With God&quot; and &quot;Reaching for the Invisible God&quot;.  But don't pass this one up for those.  I read this after Yancey's books and gained many valuable insights.rity could be a long, uncomfortable process. But if being so focused on &quot;saving&quot; the kind of life we want is making us blind and ignorant to the better kind of life that God wants for us, then it is a risk worth taking. This is not to say that it's good to throw the nice things we have in life away. But I would like to be the kind of person who can lose those things when the time comes without too much regret and also use them (while I have them) to bless others in God's name. This can only happen if I truly believe that my life is the product not of my own will and struggle, but of an intimate and everlasting relationship with God.<br />This book is a good elaboration on what Jesus means by losing our life when we try to save it and finding it when we lose it for His sake (Matt. 16:25) and what it means to find the pearl of great value (Matt. 13:45). As Barnes says at the end of his book, &quot;People who have a God do not need to become one&quot;. This book will help you break the habit of trying to be your own life's savior and enjoy letting God do that for you. If you read this book and want more, I would also recommend Philip Yancey's books &quot;Disappointment With God&quot; and &quot;Reaching for the Invisible God&quot;.  But don't pass this one up for those.  I read this after Yancey's books and gained many valuable insights.	2002-01-06
US	52038629	R3EMN0PL8YFYM6	0140440062	740001827	001: The Divine Comedy, Part 1: Hell (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	51	54	N	N	A readable translation with helpful notes and introduction	Having wanted to read Inferno for a long time, I was glad to find Dorothy Sayers' translation since I value her own writing.  I'm no scholar, so I can't compare this critically to the numerous other translations available.  I just come looking to enjoy reading and understanding great classic literature on occasion.  It takes a great deal of background information to appreciate this work.  The Divine Comedy can be examined from many different angles: Poetry, allegory, theology, a spiritual journey, a love story.  Sayers' introduction and notes, and the diagrams and drawings in this book were a great help to me.  Some may argue that the scholarship is a bit dated, but Sayers clearly loved The Divine Comedy and wanted her readers to appreciate it also.  The result of her work was a very interesting reading experience for me, better than I expected.  I particularly enjoyed the insights she incorporated into the notes from Charles Williams' book, The Figure of Beatrice.  (Sayers dedicated her translation of The Divine Comedy  to Williams.)  The verse might make it a little more difficult to get the meaning until you get used to it, but I think it's worth the effort.  Once I found a good reading pace, I didn't find the rhyming forced as some readers have.  (It might seem that way if you look for it.)  It must be a difficult thing to try to give readers of English the same experience that Dante's Italian readers had and I think that was Dorothy Sayers' goal.  She got me interested enough to take seriously her claim that readers of Dante are cheating themselves if they stop after Inferno.  On through Purgatory to Paradise ... It must only get better from here.	2002-01-05
US	52038629	R1P4HJ3GTNZFRH	0671884239	294233551	Books That Build Character: A Guide to Teaching Your Child Moral Values Through Stories	Books	5	70	73	N	N	A Great Guide to Books Worth Reading	As another reviewer pointed out, the title and subtitle of this book may put people off.  But this isn't a book that applies a preachy sort of moralism to the task of building a child's character through literature.  Far from it.  It's a very valuable guide to books that have, and will, stand the test of time as classics.  I discovered many wonderful books through this guide and had a great time reading them to my children.  The best children's literature is as satisfying on an adult level as it is for the child.<br />This book is valuable not only for the lists and summaries of good books for children (grouped by age level and category) that takes up most of its pages.  The first 60 pages contain five short chapters on the importance of reading for children and of selecting the sort of books that will build their character and intellect.  It explains why it does matter what your child reads (not just that they read).  Don't skip this reading.  No matter how convinced you are of the importance of good literature for a child's development, your conviction and understanding will deepen by reading what the authors have to say in this introductory material.<br />The fifth chapter has some especially useful guidelines on selecting and sharing good books. Distinguish between issues and virtues: &quot;Having enlightened opinions is no substitute for having character&quot;.  &quot;Good books are people centered, not problem centered.&quot;  Context of behavior portrayed in a book is crucial.  &quot;Character building books are not simply about good people doing good things. ... The question is not whether unethical behavior is present, but how it is presented&quot;.  Look for stories that &quot;open up new possibilities and stretch the imagination. ... be wary of stories that focus exclusively on narrow teen or preteen preoccupations, or those that offer nothing more than the therapeutic reassurance that everything is okay&quot;.  &quot;Look for books in which the main character grows&quot;.  There is an education here to help you discern for yourself the quality of children's literature.  There is also some good advice on how to read to your children; a good list of &quot;do's and don't's&quot; that make reading aloud more productive an fun.  It won't be long before your kids are turning off the TV and asking you to read to them.  You will have plenty of good material to draw from with this book as your guide.racter grows&quot;.  There is an education here to help you discern for yourself the quality of children's literature.  There is also some good advice on how to read to your children; a good list of &quot;do's and don't's&quot; that make reading aloud more productive an fun.  It won't be long before your kids are turning off the TV and asking you to read to them.  You will have plenty of good material to draw from with this book as your guide.	2001-11-10
US	52038629	R1NDUT0GQ2GKIA	0310219310	300939906	A Grace Disguised: How the Soul Grows Through Loss	Books	5	124	124	N	N	Hope for Healing	Gerald Sittser's book is among the best I have ever read for those who are struggling with a great loss in life. He speaks from terrible experience. He lost his wife, mother and a daughter in a single automobile accident. From his own experience of the pain and suffering that follows he draws out a meaningful perspective applicable to the universal experience of human suffering. Without diminishing the pain and evil that suffering inflicts and represents, Sittser helps us make sense of suffering in the context of the Christian faith. He does so with honesty and clarity. Suffering can provide an opportunity for spiritual growth and strengthening of character. We all have that choice available to us.<br /><br />Sittser rejects the notion of \\"recovery\\" from catastrophic loss. Such a loss can not be recovered from if that means that we will be the same as before. We will never get over it. Instead, following Victor Frankl's example, he insists that we must find some meaning in suffering. Our souls must be enlarged by it to help us transcend the experience and integrate it into our lives if we are not to be crushed by it instead. He is an able guide to the avenue that the Christian faith provides for this.<br /><br />The book has a good chapter on the futility of comparing one person's loss to another. He shows that there is no point in deciding whose serious, irretrievable loss is worse than another's. Each experience of loss is unique because each person is unique.<br /><br />Sittser doesn't minimize the problems that Christian faith presents in suffering. He has been through the dark tunnel of wondering why this accident happened to him and what God's interest, or lack thereof, is in his suffering. He has experienced the agony of loneliness and separation from a God who seems uncaring or unable to ease his pain. We may know in our minds that our perspective must be severely limited compared to God's but it is very hard to continue trusting Him as we thought we did before, believing that somehow God will bring us out into the light again someday. He examines the alternatives to faith and finds them wanting. If there is no God, can there be any meaning in life itself let alone meaning in a life of suffering? Would we really rather live in a world where everyone gets exactly what they deserve, good or bad, a world with no pain, but also no grace? What bearing does God's suffering as Christ on the cross have on our experience? What does it really mean to have faith in God? There are no simple answers, but considering the questions honestly can challenge our preconceived notions. It's a risk worth taking. Sittser has found, as have many others, that there is undeniable grace given by God to those who trust Him in their suffering, a remolding of our character for good in response to the evil of our experience. While we would be fools to seek suffering for whatever good may come of it, it is hard for many to deny that, if the suffering had not come, they would probably not have experienced the works of grace they now find so valuable.<br /><br />There is also a chapter on forgiveness. As in Sittser's case, there are often particular people whose actions are responsible for our loss. Forgiveness is a hard pill to swallow, if only it were a pill. But withholding it will prevent our own healing. It's helpful to know what forgiveness means and doesn't mean. It doesn't mean condoning the act. It doesn't mean the act should go unpunished. It doesn't mean forgetting it happened. It means that we stop wishing evil for those who have harmed us and instead desire their good. It isn't a process that culminates in a final result or a once-and-for-all event. Once it has been decided upon, forgiving is a continuous frame of mind and an occasionally renewed activity. Through forgiveness, we have the power to end the cycle of hurt. We can choose to have it stop with us, not letting it infect others through us.<br /><br />Through all his suffering, Gerald Sittser has found that \\"life has the final word\\", not death and despair. We don't always get the life we want, but we can find that there is much more to life than what we want and a life beyond this life that exceeds our greatest desires. Our suffering can also help us to help others who suffer. It can provide opportunity for others to share our suffering in love. It's common for many people to offer much needed and sincere support for the victims of loss immediately following the incident. Most of these people understandably try to get back to their own \\"lives as usual\\" soon afterward. It was very heartening to read about the people who went further in Sittser's case. Those who decided that their lives would also be changed by his tragedy formed a community of love and support that was good for the long haul. What a blessing.final word\\", not death and despair. We don't always get the life we want, but we can find that there is much more to life than what we want and a life beyond this life that exceeds our greatest desires. Our suffering can also help us to help others who suffer. It can provide opportunity for others to share our suffering in love. It's common for many people to offer much needed and sincere support for the victims of loss immediately following the incident. Most of these people understandably try to get back to their own \\"lives as usual\\" soon afterward. It was very heartening to read about the people who went further in Sittser's case. Those who decided that their lives would also be changed by his tragedy formed a community of love and support that was good for the long haul. What a blessing.	2001-09-15
US	52038629	R3N1EBZQSQJ2E2	0140444203	568905062	The Jewish War: Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	44	48	N	N	1st Century clash between Romans and Jews	I bought this book to read before a trip to Israel in 1999. It's a very readable English translation. This gives Josephus' account of the war between the Romans and the Jews in the 1st century. Most fascinating (and horrible) are the accounts of the destruction of Gamla and Jerusalem and the final siege of Masada. Scholars are critical of Josephus because he puts too much of himself into the story and because it is probably biased in favor of his Roman benefactors. (Josephus began fighting against the Romans, but then came over to their side when he was captured and convinced of the hopelessness of the rebellion. He tried to convince the Jews not to fight, but to accept Roman rule. He wrote this history for the Romans' benefit after the war.) Nevertheless, there are very few good historical accounts of this place and time. Reading it gives you a taste of what life would have been like in that ancient land during this terrible period. It's well worth the time spent reading it, especially if you plan to visit the places described.	2001-08-27
US	52038629	R2KZ5COWNVL4L0	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Power of God vs Mammon	This is my first read of a John Grisham novel.  I look forward to more.  I enjoyed this one very much.<br />What happens when an $11 Billion fortune is at stake in a legal battle where the obvious heirs have been written out of the will, which instead names a reclusive missionary who has no interest in the money as sole heir?  Here we see in dramatic detail what money and power can do to spoil the lives of many and how irrelevant it is for the happiness and contentment of one.  In between is a man, Nate O'Reilly, who learns the power of redemption after nearly destroying his life (no easy journey).<br />The characters and their circumstances are realistically portrayed.  The story has an exciting pace and a remarkable ending.  Well worth the time spent reading.	2001-08-18
US	52038629	R3XSTR3V1PWAK	0060693339	61843273	The Divine Conspiracy: Rediscovering Our Hidden Life In God	Books	5	14	19	N	N	A Gold Mine (7 stars)	I've read over many of the positive reviews of this book here on Amazon.com.  It's hard to add anything to what they say.  For me this is a 7-out-of-5-star book.  I've been an intentional and practicing Christian for about 27 years now and an avid reader of helpful books on Christianity for most of that time.  I can honestly say that this book stands out among the rest.  It's the most profound and helpful book I have ever read on Christian discipleship.  The ideas are simple and derived from Scripture, but the insight and clarity that Dallas Willard gives to them is compelling and inspiring for those who desire to be a disciple of Jesus Christ.  It took me almost 3 years to read though this book, in large part because it's so densely packed with thought provoking insights that I needed days or weeks to digest, and reflect upon, the things I had read in just a dozen or so pages of this book.  This isn't just a book that contains interesting information about God.  It's focus is on what God is doing in and through people who follow Him; the kind of people we are and can become.  Unlike many theology books or books on Christian living, it's impossible to absorb what this book is saying without being forced into some deep reflection on our own personal character.  This is a book I'll be reading over and over again.	2001-08-04
US	52038629	R9M9A0LL9CZXJ	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A user's manual for your television	I grew up watching a lot of television but then, as an adult, lived without a TV for about 20 years. I grudgingly bought one TV (and a VCR) in 1997. I don't like TV on the whole and watch only about 2 or 3 hours of it a week. Neil Postman's book is a very good analysis of television's detrimental effects on its viewers and our society. This isn't so much about the content of TV programs (though that is often very bad), but the nature of television as a medium of communication; the subtle way it effects our view of reality, our epistemology. Television is certainly not going to go away. This book is good reading for those who want to put TV in its place and be aware of the problems with seeing too much of the world through a television camera.	2001-03-15
US	52038629	R3QAI2E1XVHGBJ	0553062182	61059309	The Highly Sensitive Person: How to Thrive When the World Overwhelms You	Books	4	152	177	N	N	Very Helpful	I'm not very keen on popular psychology and self-help books. But it was interesting to find book written about a character of people into which I fit very well. I never knew there was such a group before.<br />Ive found some things in this book that don't fit me specifically (and a few things I don't like), but I score very high on the self-test on page xvii and many parts of the book describe my personality very well. The book goes a long way in helping the reader understand what makes sensitive people tick and in dispelling the negative stereotypes of &quot;shy&quot; or &quot;introverted&quot; people. If you are an &quot;HSP&quot;, the book will help you live with yourself, understand your limitations and value your uncommon abilities. If you're not the sensitive type, you may find in this book a tremendous help in understanding such people.<br />Not all of the book was helpful for me. The first two chapters, describing the trait of an HSP, were very interesting and convinced me that I belong in this category of personality. Chapters three and four, however, did not interest me very much. The idea of managing the reactions of one's body to worldly stimuli as if you were caring for an infant seems a bit strained to me. I also have no desire to &quot;reparent myself&quot;. Thankfully,  my own parents did a good enough job of that the first time. I don't want to spend a large part of my life trying to repair any mistakes that may have been made back there. I've found God to be a good father to me now, and I have two great kids on which I want to spend all of my fathering energies.<br />Chapter six, on &quot;Thriving at Work&quot;, was probably the most helpful since I have a strong desire to do creative, meaningful and productive work. Yet it's also the place where most conflicts arise. When I read the page of &quot;Tips for Employers of Highly Sensitive People&quot; at the end of the book, it seemed to describe the ideal work environment for me.<br />The chapter on medications (nine) was interesting for the insight it gave on how antidepressants work. I have no experience with such drugs and I am now more certain that I want none. I think Dr. Aron's perspective on their use as a last resort or short-term measure is very sensible.<br />I was also very interested in the last chapter on spirituality, but found it disappointing for its lack of depth. Its main observation is that HSPs tend to place more importance on spirituality than others, but we're a mixed bag when it comes to the forms that takes (as would be expected). Dr. Aron is a Jungian Psychologist and spirituality is taken seriously by that discipline. Yet the things I have heard and read about the nature and practice of Jung's spirituality greatly disturb me. Not that Dr. Aron is advocating a particular form of spirituality. In line with the opinion of most of her profession, hers seems to be that anything that helps is good.r on medications (nine) was interesting for the insight it gave on how antidepressants work. I have no experience with such drugs and I am now more certain that I want none. I think Dr. Aron's perspective on their use as a last resort or short-term measure is very sensible. <br />I was also very interested in the last chapter on spirituality, but found it disappointing for its lack of depth. Its main observation is that HSPs tend to place more importance on spirituality than others, but we're a mixed bag when it comes to the forms that takes (as would be expected). Dr. Aron is a Jungian Psychologist and spirituality is taken seriously by that discipline. Yet the things I have heard and read about the nature and practice of Jung's spirituality greatly disturb me. Not that Dr. Aron is advocating a particular form of spirituality. In line with the opinion of most of her profession, hers seems to be that anything that helps is good.	2000-11-05
US	52038629	R3P6VZO8UQNO4V	0825420881	77537053	The Training of the Twelve	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A Great Classic on Christian Discipleship	This book is a classic study of Jesus' teaching and training of his disciples (first published in 1871). When I first read it, I was fascinated by the light it shed on my reading of the Gospels. It is a very valuable study for any Christian who serves in any form of leadership capacity or anyone seeking to be a disciple of Jesus Christ.<br />The book's 31 chapters give an absorbing commentary on selected passages of the four Gospels, following in chronological order Jesus ministry and teaching among his disciples.  The writing style will take a bit of getting used to for the average modern reader, but it's well worth the effort.  There is also a table of Scripture references discussed in the book that make it useful reference work.  Read it cover to cover first.	2000-10-19
US	52038629	R1LXWE3COGE27C	080106192X	824391862	Bright Days, Dark Nights: With Charles Spurgeon in Triumph over Emotional Pain	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Spiritual Tonic	This is a wonderful little book.  Elizabeth Skoglund has done a fine job of weaving together the writings of Charles Spurgeon on topics dealing with emotional pain and suffering.  Each of the chapters are broken up into short segments.  The book is best read &quot;devotionally&quot;; a little at a time.  It has been a great help to me as a supplement to regular prayer and Scripture reading.  Chapters are titled &quot;Confidence&quot;, &quot;Depression&quot;, &quot;Anxiety&quot;, &quot;Loneliness&quot;, &quot;Change&quot;, and &quot;Transition&quot; (dying).  Spurgeon, having suffered from these emotional problems himself, was ahead of his time in recognizing their more common sources and in dispelling some of the easy answers that are still common in evangelical Christian circles today.  The first chapter, &quot;Body, Mind and Spirit&quot; offers a good foundation.  It recognizes that we are whole persons, not separable into neat compartments.  Emotional problems often stem from physical as well as spiritual causes.  This book offers strength and courage from a great man who has been through plenty of dark times himself	2000-10-19
US	52038629	R2X1YMZ5OUUU87	0919225349	851900742	Rachel Weeping: And Other Essays on Abortion	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Well Reasoned Case Against Abortion	Abortion is one of those extremely controversial and complex issues that divide people. It's difficult to find reasonable discussion of the issue on any side. Back in the mid to late 1980's I involved myself heavily in discussions on the internet (in what is now the talk.abortion newsgroup) with all kinds of people on this topic. I debated back and forth with so many people for so long that, after a few years, I thought I had all the arguments (pro and con) memorized. I read a great deal on the subject. The issue was (and still is) important to me because it lies at the root of our society's values concerning human life and dignity. I think it's important to have a well informed and thought out position on issues like abortion. I think I'm drawn to some controverial issues like this because of the way they test the limits and consistency of a person's worldview. Trying to form as comprehensive a worldview as possible has been my avocation for a long time. I'm still a believer in Truth and that it ought to be pursued passionately. With the abortion issue, that pursuit still leaves me solidly on the 'pro-life' side (though I often disagree with many things that people who  wear that label do and say). Rachel Weeping has always stood out among the books I have read as the best general argument against the current license for abortion on demand in our society.	2000-10-19
US	52038629	RNIUQM9EGN0MA	0070296626	92395325	C+ C++: Programming With Objects in C and C++	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent book for C programers wanting to learn C++	This was an extremely valuable book for me in learning C++. It will be very helpful for any proficient C programmer in making the transition to object-oriented programming in C++. The book is well written and well organized. Starting with a demonstration of how object-oriented programming can be done in C, Holub brings the reader though the transition to C++ very directly and neatly. The examples he uses are excellent, not the trivial ones you find in many &quot;learning C++&quot; books. The book also effectively teaches good C++ programming practice while you are learning. This is very important since sloppy coding practices can be very hard and painful to unlearn later. The book repays carful study and is well worth the money and time spent.<br />I do have 3 criticisms of the book: 1) It's out of date. A 2nd edition that brings it up-to-date with Standard C++ would make this the best book of its kind. For the C++ beginner, though, that doesn't detract much from the book's usefullness. Everything in the book will still work. 2) There are numerous typos and minor errors in the example code which can lead to confusion. Being able to find them though, made me feel good. I knew I was really learning the subject. 3) The book would also benefit by having useful exercises at the end of each chapter for a student to perform.	1999-03-10
