US	52035897	R2UHLZDBYJUVNV	0060931175	577973624	Field, The	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Excellent sumary of revolutionary scientific evidence.	There is a mountain of suppressed or barely acknowledged scientific evidence that shows that many of the allegedly rock-solid foundational assumptions of modern science are mistaken. Life is not the result of accidental collisions of molecules. Consciousness is not the by-product of electrochemical processes in the brain, nor is it confined to the skull.  <br /> <br />Unfortunately, this information has not yet become widely known. Mc Taggart's work is helping to change that. I could think of no better layperson's introduction to the revolutionary results of Benveniste, Popp and many others than this book.	2005-05-29
US	52035897	R2CK80VZP8WLD0	0830823794	340948585	A Parent's Guide to Preventing Homosexuality	Books	1	44	86	N	N	The book's thesis refutes itself.	According to Nicolosi, homosexuality is all about gender confusion. Let boys bond with their fathers and play sports, and with \\"masculine\\" toys, and be sure to keep their mothers at arm's length, and they'll grow up straight (Lesbians and bisxuals don't exist in the Nicolosi universe). For \\"proof\\", Nicolosi describes a few cases where his stereotypes seem to fit and ignores the millions of healthy, happy and masculine gay men where they don't. His entire case represents a failure of scientific methodology 101- to legitimately prove something, you can't build it into your research as an a priori assumption. If you go fishing with a net that can catch only fishes at least 2\\" wide, your failure to find any fish that's smaller than 2\\" does not prove that every fish is at least 2\\".<br />Nicolosi's is the same kind of slanted non-science that performed studies about homosexuality on prisoners and people in mental institutions and then found that (SURPRISE!) all gay men were criminal or mentally disturbed. It is sad that Amazon's rating system does not allow me to give this work zero stars, because that's what it deserves. It's religious prejudice dressed up as science, with no basis in fact.	2003-02-18
US	52035897	R2MU2T712FMJJY	0929385551	166678288	The Complete Ascension Manual: How to Achieve Ascension in This Lifetime (Ascension Series, Book 1) (The Ascension Series)	Books	4	80	94	N	N	Could use a little more discernment.	Stone certainly achieved what he set out to do- he synthesized and  distilled he contents of a small new age library into a single, easy to read book. However, he could have used a bit more critical thinking. His pages are populated by an extraordinarily varied &quot;zoo&quot; of spiritual entities and higher agencies, all of whom can perform miraculous feats for us if we just ask. The &quot;ascension mediation&quot; at the end of the book, for example, appeals to about 60 spiritual agencies in its opening.<br />Where does all this information come from? The answer, in most cases, is: channeled information. It seems like Stone worked every entity ever mentioned by some channel into his tapestry, and still, he makes no mention of what many people consider the most reliable material in this field- Jane Roberts' Seth works.<br />Using cranio-sacral testing, I have investigated just how much of Stone's material is accurate. The answer I received was: about 30%. That's in line with my experience with many of Stone's suggestions to ask particular agencies for help: they don't work. Or at least, they didn't work for me. Maybe I'm just too spiritually unevolved to this kind of stuff.<br />That's not to say that this book is bad. On the contrary, much of Stone's advice for spiritual growth (as contained in the &quot;147 golden keys for ascension&quot;) seems solid. But the reader would be well advised to not take any particular piece of information at face value.	2002-12-20
US	52035897	R2SL319PXK2RNE	0345438337	74332503	Invoking Darkness (Babylon 5: The Passing of the Techno-Mages, Book 3)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A View from the Gallery	One of the many questions that the TV series left unanswered is how Sheridan was able to destroy Z'ha'dum in the episode of the same name. As the Lurker's Guide puts it,<br />\\"Why weren't the Shadows vigorously protecting their homeworld? Obviously they left the White Star alone while it was in orbit because of their guarantee to Sheridan, but once it started plummeting toward one of their cities, it's odd that they didn't shoot it out of the sky. \\"<br />This novel answers that question, and many others raised by the TV show and the first two installments of the trilogy. The reader is treated to a retelling of the significant events of the third season of B5 from the perspective of the most powerful beings of the B5 universe, and in this fashion, an already complex story is given additional layers of complexity. In order to not spoil the story, it will suffice to say that there are significant events involving the Vorlons, the Shadows and the Technomages that make the established B5 storyline play out as it does. <br />Besides filling in some of the blanks of the B5 storyline (some of which we didn't even know existed), this book also fills in some of the blanks with regard to characterization. We learn what went on in Kosh's mind before, during and after his death, we gain a deeper understanding of Morden and Anna, and, naturally, we find out how Galen came to be the character we know from Crusade.<br />All in all, a thoroughly enjoyable work that wets the appetite for a continuation and conclusion of the Crusade storyline from the same author.	2002-06-09
US	52035897	RRFQYJ068FRHM	1572581980	592689096	Secrets of the Lost Races: New Discoveries of Advanced Technology in Ancient Civilizations	Books	5	59	64	N	N	A valuable source of ignored information, despite its age	Noorbergen's classic text on archeological anomalies that confound the established picture of human prehistory and suggest that an advanced global civilization thrives on this planet in the remote past is a treasure trove of information. In that respect, it is similar to the more recent \\"Forbidden Archeology\\" by Cremo and Thompson, and to works by Graham Hancock. The main difference is that Noorbergen accepts as evidence biblical accounts of a flood, and of a line of (very long-lived) patriarchs descended from the survivors of that flood. Even though I do not believe in the historical veracity of the biblical texts, his case did not seem to be without merit; still, non-christian readers will probably find that part of the book lacking in credibility.<br />Luckily, the remainder of the book relies more on archeological than scriptural evidence. Highlights include chapter 4, which discusses evidence for \\"Advanced Aviation in Prehistoric Times\\", and chapter 5, \\"Nuclear Warfare Among the \\"Primitives\\". Noorbergen's claim of nuclear warfare in prehistoric times may seem preposterous to even an open-minded reader, and his interpretation of ancient texts to be the product of an overactive imagination, but as a matter of fact, it is backed up by solid physical evidence. The following story ran on the Cosmiverse website on June 13, 2000:<br />[Quote] From 1992 comes another fascinating, mysterious discovery: that of an ancient city in India that appears to have leveled by an atomic blast 8,000 - 10,000 years ago. Reported in January 1992 by the UK's World Island Review, a construction team discovered the site in Rajasthan, India while preparing to build at housing development. <br />The heavy layer of radioactive ash found in a three-mile-square area concealed \\"an ancient city where evidence shows an atomic blast dating back thousands of years, from 8,000 to 12,000 years, destroyed most of the buildings and probably a half-million people. One researcher estimates that the nuclear bomb used was about the size of the ones dropped on Japan in 1945,\\" said the newspaper. <br />After its discovery, the ancient city became suspect as the cause of a high rate of birth defects and cancer in the region. \\"The levels of radiation there (the city site) have registered so high on investigators' gauges that the Indian government has now cordoned off the region,\\" said the newspaper. <br />Interestingly, the Indian Mahabharata appears to have recorded the historic blast event. \\"A single projectile charged with all the power in the Universe...An incandescent column of smoke and flame as bright as 10,000 suns, rose in all its splendor...it was an unknown weapon, an iron thunderbolt, a gigantic messenger of death which reduced to ashes an entire race,\\" says the sacred text. <br />Archeologist Francis Taylor told the paper that etchings in some nearby temples he has managed to translate suggest that they prayed to be spared from the great light that was coming to lay ruin to the city. \\"It's so mid-boggling to imagine that some civilization had nuclear technology before we did. The radioactive ash adds credibility to the ancient Indian records that describe atomic warfare.\\" [End of Quote]<br />Noorbergen wrote his book in 1977, before this discovery was made.<br />Despite its age, I can wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in taking off the blinders of conventional consensus and learning about the true history of the human race.	2002-05-29
US	52035897	RJ1NEB30NC3EV	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	1	20	47	N	N	Revisionist History	To make a credible case that Gore tried to steal the election, Sammon has to establish that Gore, the winner of the popular vote, needed to steal the election in the first place. To this end, Sammon conjectures that tens of thousands of  Republican voters were discouraged from voting by the media's premature calling  the election for Gore. This argument is of course laughable, given that the media called Florida for Gore only a few minutes before the Florida polls closed. In addition, Sammon does not seem to care how many thousands of Democratic voters were \\"discouraged\\" by GOP-engineered voter  harassment of the kind that is now almost traditional, or prevented from voting  in the first place because Katherine Harris had them removed from the voter  rolls, or were mislead into thinking they had voted for Gore by a deceptive  ballot designed by a former Republican.<br />To lament the former and ignore the latter and to find the fictional disenfranchisement of tens of thousands of Republican voters more compelling  then the real, documented disenfranchisement of tens of thousands of Democratic  voters is of course hypocritical, but it follows a certain logic. Conservatives believe that theirs is a preordained, God-given right to govern,  regardless of whether the majority shares their views. By definition, therefore,  Republican votes are legitimate, and Democratic votes are illegitimate, so  suppressing the former is a crime while suppressing the latter an exercise in  justice. <br />That pretty much characterizes the rest of the book. Sammon cherry-picks his evidence to support a predetermined conclusion, and ignores the evidence that  doesn't fit. How come that the Democratic protesters in Floriday carried hand- made signs while the Republican protesters were equipped with professionally- made \\"Sore Loserman\\" signs and t-shirts? How come the \\"liberal\\" media did not  challenge them on this? How come the \\"liberal\\" media paid no attention when the GOP rioters were revealed to be high-level Republican operatives? Interesting questions, but expect no answer from Bill Sammon....	2001-07-02
US	52035897	R2T9CNRY1B4U96	0671774778	113828566	Section 31:  Rogue (Star Trek The Next Generation)	Books	5	13	20	N	N	Great story &amp; a fitting, tasteful end to trek's gay embargo.	'Rogue' is an extremely well done TNG adventure that brings back Picard's two academy friends Corey and Marta in a story of intrigue that pits the Romulan Tal Shiar against the Federation's Section 31. The book features Lt. Hawk, the good-looking bridge officer introduced (and killed off) in the movie First Contact as a significant supporting character, and makes history as the first official Trek franchise product that features not only an openly gay character, but two of them, and in a stable, loving, intimate and mature relationship that mets with the unquestioning and implicit approval of the other characters.<br />Despite suggestions to the contrary by some conservative reviewers who are predictably apoplectic at the mere suggestion that same-sex relationships are considered natural in the 24th century, the 'gay' storyline is very low-key and blends perfectly with the main story. There is not the slightest hint that these two men are, or are going to be, married, and they are consistently described only as 'partners'. There is not even so much as a suggestion of sexual activity, and only the barest hint of physical closeness. If anything, this novel is too restrained, too timid in its portrayal of what in the 24th century will be a perfectly natural relationship. <br />I thorougly enjoyed this book, and I'm looking forward to more Trek novels from the same team of authors.	2001-06-23
US	52035897	RVFD3PBRVZGWZ	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	1	19	32	N	N	Conservative Revisionist History	Conservatives continue to operate on the &quot;big lie&quot;  principle. Inconvenient facts are effectively neutralized by simply asserting  the opposite, combined with what psychologists call projection: since Bush stole the election, they simply claim that Gore stole the election. <br />To make a credible case that Gore stole the election, Sammon has to establish that Gore, the winner of the popular vote, needed to steal the election in the first place. To this end, Sammon conjectures that tens of thousands of  Republican voters were discouraged from voting by the media's premature calling  the election for Gore. Unfortunately, he does not seem to care how many  thousands of Democratic voters were &quot;discouraged&quot; by GOP-engineered voter  harassment of the kind that is now almost traditional, or prevented from voting  in the first place because Katherine Harris had them removed from the voter  rolls, or were mislead into thinking they had voted for Gore by a deceptive  ballot designed by a former Republican.<br />To lament the former and ignore the latter and to find the hypothetical  disenfranchisement of tens of thousands of Republican voters more compelling  then the real, documented disenfranchisement of tens of thousands of Democratic  voters is of course hypocritical, but it follows a certain logic. Conservatives believe that theirs is a preordained, God-given right to govern,  regardless of whether the majority shares their views. By definition, therefore,  Republican votes are legitimate, and Democratic votes are illegitimate, so  suppressing the former is a crime while suppressing the latter an exercise in  justice. <br />That pretty much characterizes the rest of the book. Sammon cherry-picks his evidence to support a predetermined conclusion, and ignores the evidence that  doesn't fit. How come that the Democratic protesters in Floriday carried hand- made signs while the Republican protesters were equipped with professionally- made &quot;Sore Loserman&quot; signs and t-shirts? How come the &quot;liberal&quot; media did not  challenge them on this? How come the &quot;liberal&quot; media paid no attention when the GOP rioters were revealed to be high-level Republican operatives? Interesting questions, but expect no answer from Bill Sammon.<br />For a different 'truth' of what happened in Flordia, I recommend Gregory  Palast's investigation into Florida's &quot;disappeared voters&quot;: carried by the BBC,  ignored by the US media. Must be the liberal media bias.	2001-06-19
US	52035897	R1ATP07WN7DSLS	0195135156	53004101	Voodoo Science: The Road from Foolishness to Fraud	Books	1	31	94	N	N	What happens when theory overrides evidence.	1000 words is not enough for a detailed review, so I will concentrate on a single chapter. <br />In chapter 3, which is mainly an attack on homeopathy, Park incorrectly states that \\"homeopathy as currently practiced still relies almost entirely on Hahnemann's listing of substances and their indications for use\\". The opposite is true: of the thousands of remedies that homeopaths work with today, Hahnemann proved only about 100, and new remedies are still being added to the homeopa thic materia medica. <br />The author then states that \\"troubled by the side effects that frequently accompanied his medications, Hahnemann experimented with dilution. As you would expect, he found that with increasing dilution the side effects could be reduced and eventually eliminated. More remarkable, he also found that the more he diluted the medicine, the more his patients seemed to benefit. He came to the astonishing conclusion that dilution increased the curative power of his medications.\\" <br />But Hahnemann found the exact opposite. As he successively diluted his medicines, both side effects and curative effects decreased, as one would expect. Only when he added succussion to his procedure did the medicines retain their healing power. This process is called potentization, as opposed to mere dilution. Park blurs the distinction between the two; even though he mentions the succussion step briefly, he continues to refer to homeopathic preparations as \\"dilutions\\". <br />He then ritualistically demolishes a straw man, showing that high dilutions cannot contain a single molecule, a point which is readily conceded by the homeopaths themselves. Park is aware of this, so he needs to discredit the work of Jacques Benveniste, whose research shows that molecules are not needed for pharmacological action. Prior to his fall from grace, Benveniste was a leading medical researcher with an impressive publication record in the peer-reviewed literature. Inconvenient as this is, Park labels him \\"a French Homeopathist\\", which, after the preceding arguments, is another word for \\"quack\\". <br />After attacking the man, Park goes after the research itself. He complains that Nature published it in the first place and makes no mention of the fact that Nature published it only after it had been independently replicated by four different laboratories. He then explains that <br />\\"Benveniste, after all, had turned scientific logic on its head. Much of experimental science consists of devising tests to ensure that an experimental outcome is not the result of some subtle artifact of the experiment or its interpretation. 'Infinite dilution' is one such test. If the observed effect does not go away when the concentration is reduced to zero, it is clear proof that the effect has nothing to do with the substance being tested.\\" <br />But in Benveniste's research,  the observed effect *did* go away when mere high dilutions were used, as opposed to potentizations, which validates Benveniste's findings by the very criterion outlined by Park.<br />After briefly ridiculing the use of homeopathic medicines in practice, Park once more returns to Benveniste, noting that the French researcher is now claiming that he can record the information contained in a homeopathic preparation, store it in digital form, transmit it over the internet, and then, using an electromagnetic coil, transfer it back to a water sample, which then takes on the healing characteristics of the original preparation. <br />Just two pages earlier, Park complains that \\"no one has produced an experiment to test [the conjecture that water can store information]\\". He should be happy, because Benveniste's transmission experiments constitute exactly the kind of evidence that he is asking for. Park's cavalier dismissal of Benveniste's new research speaks for itself: <br />\\"This is the point at which everyone is supposed to realize how ridiculous this is and share a good laugh.\\" <br />Apparently the demand for corroboratingevidence was only rhetorical, as is Park's dismissal of the evidence. Did Park try to replicate Benveniste's transmission experiments? The answer is no.<br />The chapter on cold fusion contains more of the same. For on objective, fair and scientific overview of this field, I refer the interested reader to Charles G. Beaudette's recent work \\"Excess Heat: Why Cold Fusion Research Prevailed\\". <br />This book is a textbook example of 'debunkery by association'. Park randomly lumps together genuine scientific anomalies with obvious examples of (...)and charlatanism in an effort to convince the reader that some of the most exciting scientific dicoveries of the 20th century are (....) I cannot recommend the book.	2001-06-09
US	52035897	R2AHEA225OXRL	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	1	20	40	N	N	Revisionist History.	The extreme righ continues to operate on the \\"big lie\\"  principle. Inconvenient facts are effectively neutralized by simply asserting  the opposite, combined with what psychologists call projection: since Bush stole the election, they simply claim that Gore stole the election. <br />To make a credible case that Gore stole the election, Sammon has to establish that Gore, the winner of the popular vote, needed to steal the election in the  first place. To this end, Sammon conjectures that tens of thousands of  Republican voters were discouraged from voting by the media's premature calling  the election for Gore. Unfortunately, he does not seem to care how many  thousands of Democratic voters were \\"discouraged\\" by GOP-engineered voter  harassment, or did not have their votes counted because of outdated voting equipment, or prevented from voting  in the first place because Katherine Harris had them removed from the voter  rolls, or were mislead into thinking they had voted for Gore by a deceptive  ballot designed by a former Republican.<br />To lament the former and ignore the latter and to find the hypothetical  disenfranchisement of tens of thousands of Republican voters more compelling  then the real, documented disenfranchisement of tens of thousands of Democratic  voters is of course hypocritical, but it follows a certain logic. Conservatives believe that theirs is a preordained, God-given right to govern,  regardless of whether the majority shares their views. By definition, therefore,  Republican votes are legitimate, and Democratic votes are illegitimate, so  suppressing the former is a crime while suppressing the latter an exercise in  justice. <br />That pretty much characterizes the rest of the book...	2001-06-09
US	52035897	R3D4RRCDL0K3B5	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	1	23	45	N	N	Right-wing revisionist history.	The extreme right in this country continues to operate on the &quot;big lie&quot; principle. Inconvenient facts are effectively neutralized by simply asserting the opposite, combined with what psychologists call projection: since Bush stole the election, they simply claim that Gore stole the election. <br />To make a credible case that Gore stole the election, Sammon has to establish that Gore, the winner of the popular vote, needed to steal the election in the first place. To this end, Sammon conjectures that tens of thousands of Republican voters were discouraged from voting by the media's premature calling the election for Gore. Unfortunately, he does not seem to care how many thousands of Democratic voters were &quot;discouraged&quot; by GOP-engineered voter harassment of the kind that is now almost traditional, or prevented from voting in the first place because Katherine Harris had them removed from the voter rolls, or were mislead into thinking they had voted for Gore by a deceptive ballot designed by a former Republican.<br />To lament the former and ignore the latter and to find the hypothetical disenfranchisement of tens of thousands of Republican voters more compelling then the real, documented disenfranchisement of tens of thousands of Democratic voters is of course hypocritical, but it follows a certain logic. Far-right extremists believe that theirs is a preordained, God-given right to govern, regardless of whether the majority shares their views. By definition, therefore, Republican votes are legitimate, and Democratic votes are illegitimate, so suppressing the former is a crime while suppressing the latter an exercise in justice.<br />This double standard is the author's guiding principle. Sammon cherry-picks his evidence to support a predetermined conclusion, and ignores the evidence that doesn't fit. How come that the Democratic protesters in Floriday carried hand-made signs while the Republican protesters were equipped with professionally-made &quot;Sore Loserman&quot; signs and t-shirts? How come the &quot;liberal&quot; media did not challenge them on this? How come the &quot;liberal&quot; media paid no attention when the GOP rioters were revealed to be high-level Republican operatives? Interesting questions, but expect no answer from Bill Sammon.<br />The idea that the media were on Gore's side is of course laughable. As early as 1999, the corporate media had decided that Bush was their winner, and they stayed on message right to the end. Gore's every alleged lie was a scandal, Bush's lies were ignored or downplayed. Going AWOL while in the National Guard or avoiding jury duty to cover up a DUI arrest would have been inpardonable sins for Gore, but not for Bush. The media even let Bush get away with characterizing himself as a successful businessman and Washington outsider, even though he was neither the one nor the other. But I digress. The pro-Bush bias of the mass media became painfully apparent with the non-coverage of the inaugural protests and subsequent anti-Bush and voting rights protests - from the mass media coverage, one would barely know that such events even occured. To assert, despite the overwhelming evidence to the contrary, that the media are &quot;liberal&quot;, is Orwellian to say the least.<br />For a different 'truth' of what happened in Flordia, I recommend Gregory Palast's investigation into Florida's &quot;disappeared voters&quot;: carried by the BBC, ignored by the US media. Must be the liberal media bias.	2001-06-04
US	52035897	RL3IAQBVT5V8Q	0722535341	186709998	The Memory of Water: Homoeopathy and the Battle of Ideas in the New Science	Books	5	31	38	N	N	A shocking account of a scientific witchhunt.	Schiff's account of the 'persecution' of Jacques Benveniste, the French scientist who produced strong experimental evidence that homeopathic dilutions can have significant biological effects, reveals that science, the great project of enlightenment and reason, has mutated into something similar to fundamentalist religion.<br />This religion of true science has its own high priests, taboos and holy dogmas. The high priests are the editors of scientific journals such as Nature, who self-righteously decide which of nature's phenomena can and cannot be admitted into scientific scripture. Consideration for scientific canonization of a phenomenon usually depends on compatability with dogma and tradition.<br />Benveniste's research, described in the first half of this book, did not meet this criterion. It challenged the dogma that living system can be reduced to the mechanical interaction of molecules, and it violated a scientific taboo by suggesting that homeopathy, that old heresy on the systematic ridicule of which whole sceptical careers have been built, might be legitimate after all. A historical embarrasement for scientific orthodoxy seemed imminent.<br />Beneveniste had to be discredited by any means necessary. The second half of Schiff's book is devoted to a detailed discussion of what these means were. Among them are accusations of incompetence and fraud, rumors of mental instability, censorship, ridicule, misinterpretation of statistical data, mock replication of experiments and 'scientific harassment' (a barrage of invalid criticisms and poorly thought through alternative &quot;explanations&quot; that do not explain the observations, combined with escalating demands for more evidence, even though it has already been decided that no amount of evidence will be considered convincing), and ultimately, the withdrawl of funding.<br />Schiff's account of the lengths that the scientific establishment will go to to defend preconceived notions of how nature ought to work leaves no room for doubt that 'big science' is broken and needs to be fixed. An excellent, highly educational book that is deserving of five stars.rk leaves no room for doubt that 'big science' is broken and needs to be fixed. An excellent, highly educational book that is deserving of five stars.	2001-05-01
US	52035897	R3C2OB99JARCAT	0345427211	240340372	Casting Shadows (Babylon 5: The Passing of the Techno-Mages, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Looking forward to the second installment.	The Technomages were some of the more provocative beings conjured up by Stracynski's imagination for the Babylon 5 universe. Their story-potential barely tapped by a sole B5 episode, 'The Geometry of Shadows', development of the history, powers and knowledge of the Technomages promised to be a major ingredient of Babylon 5: Crusade which featured a Technomage, Galen,  among its main characters. Alas, due to Crusade's early cancelation, their potential was never realized.<br />This novel answers many open questions on Galen and his order. It sheds light on the origins of technomancy, reveals how the Technomages reacted to the return of the Shadows, and the crucial role Galen played in it. Once started, it is hard to put down. One of the best B5 novels so far.	2001-04-02
US	52035897	RF9IYKA65XDLD	1878424211	574022652	The Individual and the Nature of Mass Events: A Seth Book (Roberts, Jane)	Books	5	83	86	N	N	Enlightening, insightful and provocative.	&quot;You create your own reality&quot;.<br />This is the central message of the Seth material. Far from being the helpless victims of circumstances that have been thrust upon us, we are the masters of our own destiny, even though most of us are unaware of it. But if we all create our individual realities, how come that there are events that influence a great number of people simultaneously, like elections, natural disasters or epidemics? How could one possibly believe, for example, that the 6 million jews who died in the holocaust all individually chose that fate for themselves?<br />It is at the intersection of individual and mass reality where Seth's message indeed appears to fail the reality check. Not so, according to Seth, but it takes a whole book to explain why. 'The Individual and the Nature of Mass Events' carefully elaborates how the individual and the collective consciousness work together in a grandiose balancing act to create a shared reality that serves all the invididual development needs, simultaneously.  Seth illustrates his points by discussing some of the great mass events of the time, such as Watergate or Three Mile Island. Of particularly significance in this context is Seth's statement that public health announcements and prevention programs, by their suggestive nature, create more instances of the diseases than they prevent!<br />'The Individual and the Nature of Mass Events' represents a cornerstone of the Seth material, as it reconciles Seth's principal message with our common sense perception of reality. It helps the reader to make sense of seemingly senseless events, and it shows how each of us, individually, can make a difference.	2001-03-20
US	52035897	R1OAUP6UNXCEXK	0966132777	218611816	Speaking of Jane Roberts: Remembering the Author of the Seth Material	Books	5	73	77	N	N	A balanced, candid look at Jane Roberts and her legacy.	For some fans of the Seth Material, Jane Roberts is a religious figure. For over 20 years, she had the privilege of being in intimate contact with a highly evolved entity named Seth, out of which came a body of spiritual teaching that has deeply influenced the lifes of many.<br />Religious devotion, unfortunately, does not necessarily bring out the best in us. Visit a Seth discussion board, and you will immediately find some people who are not only looking for answers for themselves, but for everyone else as well. Who will start fights over who is right and who is wrong. That's how religious orthodoxy always starts; give it a few centuries, and you will have religious wars and the holy inquisition. <br />At least that is what Jane Roberts was always afraid of - that she would become a religious icon and put on a pedestal, and Seth's message an object of devotion in itself, instead of just an aid to the individual for personal empowerment.<br />Sue Watkins' book is a great antidote to the poison of religious organizing. It shows Jane Roberts as simply an imperfect, complicated human being - a woman who smoked way too much and loved vulgar jokes. Who happened to channel a spiritual teacher named Seth. And who was a gifted artist in her own right.<br />Speaking of Jane Roberts is an insightful book that provides some much needed perspective on the woman who gave us the Seth Material. It was not exactly what I expected, meaning that Sue did her job well.	2001-03-18
US	52035897	R2J4Z3GIUIGQ3C	1560238747	166047750	The Masculine Marine: Homoeroticism in the U.S. Marine Corps (Haworth Gay & Lesbian Studies)	Books	5	51	56	N	Y	A revealing study of Homosexuality Vs. The Marine Corps.	Military homophobia has always been somewhat of a paradox. Sex between soldiers is officially strictly forbidden, unofficially tolerated (as long as it does not become public knowledge and the 'offenders' retain their official heterosexual identity), and unconsciously encouraged, by forcing men to live together in close quarters without any substantial privacy, by limiting their access to female partners and by promoting close friendships.<br />That is the reason why military life is a favourite subject of gay pornography, and the military subconscious is keenly aware of it. But consciously, the policy remains &quot;dont' ask, don't tell.&quot; Sex, love and relationships between service members remain taboo, and are officially grounds for dismissal. <br />Yet behind the veil of denial and secrecy, there is a small but thriving gay culture within the military. Zeeland has made it his life's work to study this culture, both in theory and in practice - which is to say he has sex with servicemen and then asks them for their life's story. The stories he has so elicited are candid, but do not go into too much sexual detail.<br />The present volume is devoted to the Marine Corps, and it explores the interaction between gay male sexualty and the psychological setup of the marines: hyper-masculinity, elite consciousness and unconditional obedience. It shows how gay marines manage to live under the  threat of discovery and dismissal, and hold up to the double pressure of having to hide the secret of being gay in the high-pressure environment of the Marine Corps.<br />This book is a serious psychological study and affords greater insight into military homophobia than well-considered outside accounts. It is erotic at times, but not pornographic. If that's what you are looking for, look elsewhere.	2001-01-31
US	52035897	R2LCDCZ7G9UZUG	0671035835	697485871	Ghost Dance (Star Trek Voyager, No 20, Dark Matters Book Two of Three)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A decent middle part to the trilogy.	The second volume starts where the first volume left off: Voyager has signed on for a mission to rid whole solar systems of dark matter, Chakotay and Paris are lost in a parallel &quot;shadow&quot; universe, and the chairman of the Tal Shi'ar has to take responsibility for the loss of 13 warbirds. In addition, we are introduced to a strange, powerful entity that is suffering from amnesia, and whose identity will only be revealed in the final volume.<br />As in the first part, the Romulan subplot is the most interesting. Even though she is a villain, Tal Shi'ar leader Jekri Kaleh manages to capture the reader's sympathies, and her fall from grace makes for an exciting, suspenseful story. <br />Chakotay and Paris find themselves caught in the middle of a conflict between two opposing factions of the race inhabiting the planet in the shadow universe. One faction has embraced a simple lifestyle and renounced technology, the other has chosen the opposite path. Bigottry and feelings of cultural superiority run rampant in both camps, and it takes two Federation officers to make some of these people see the light.. standard Star Trek stuff, not particularly imaginative, and relatively unrelated to the main storyline. A typical example of formulaic storytelling: split the crew up, get two characters into some predicament involving a moral lesson, and resolve the situation just in time for the closing credits.  <br />The third storyline, the one that involves Voyager, is of the same caliber. Torres, Seven and Telek have to figure out how to use the 'ball' given to them by the Shepherds, and as usual, the solution consists of some ad-hoc procedure involving lots of treknology. Golden dutifully drags it out through some chapters, but there is of course never any doubt as to the eventual outcome. <br />&quot;Ghost Dance&quot; is not high literature, but for five bucks, it is entertaining enough, and it manages to keep the reader interested enough to read the final volume.	2001-01-05
US	52035897	RF6WIV70ZVTNJ	0671035827	992426487	Cloak and Dagger (Star Trek Voyager, No 19, Dark Matters Book One of Three)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	One of better Voyager novels.	&quot;Dark Matters&quot; continues and expands the story line began in the TV episode &quot;Eye of the Needle&quot;, bringing back the Romulan Scientist Telek R'Mor, accompanied by one of the most implausible pieces of Trek science I ever encountered. The properties of dark matter, its technical application and side effects make very little sense, not to mention the fact that the stuff is purely hypothetical, not a scientific fact as the cover blurb would have us believe.<br />That aside, &quot;Cloak and Dagger&quot; is well-done, by Star Trek novel standards. One of its highlights is the Romulan subplot which gives the reader a rare insight into the higher echelons of the Romulan power structure, introducing characters that the TV shows have so far paid little attention to, such as the Romulan Empress, the Praetor and the Proconsul, and featuring the chairman of the Tal Shi'ar, Jekri Kaleh, in a lead role. Kaleh is a one-dimensional villain at first, but, surprisingly, becomes more interesting and psychologically credible as the story progresses. Eventually, the reader even starts to feel sympathy for her, a feeling that only intensifies in volumes two and three.<br />&quot;Cloak and Dagger&quot; was a page-turner for me, and it left me eagerly waiting for the second volume.	2000-12-31
US	52035897	R1EEZOE3EL9DQS	0671032550	398233127	Infection (Star Trek The Next Generation: Double Helix, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	One of the better TNG novels	Infection keeps the reader entertained with an interesting, though not too original, plotline, a genuinely baffling riddle and a credible resolution. Long time fans of The Next Generation will enjoy this trip back to season 1, to a time when the characters were relatively unacquainted with each other. <br />The quasi-religious sect of the Purity League, which wants to kill everyone who is the result of human/alien mating, makes for some interesting, though obvious social commentary. Infection's<br />treatment of sexual prejudice would have been more compelling if it had included brief discussion of examples of sexual bigottry in Earth's past, including the one that Star Trek itself is and remains unable to confront: homophobia. Star Trek's ongoing refusal to firmly establish that respect for different sexual orientations is part of the Federation's value system continues to compromise its moral credibility.<br />Despite this minor (and for those who are not sensitive to the issue negligible) flaw, Infection is thorougly enjoyable, and wets the appetite for further installments of the series.	2000-12-26
US	52035897	RFANGLUZON3Q9	034537410X	363491181	Exploring the World of Lucid Dreaming	Books	5	198	231	N	Y	The authoritative work on developing lucid dreaming ability.	Lucid dreaming, i.e. dreaming with full awareness, is one of the most ecstatic experiences open to human beings. Yet creating this state of bliss has traditionally been difficult - the naive approach of autosuggestion produces only very low success rates.<br />In &quot;Exploring the World of Lucid Dreaming&quot;, Stephen LaBerge discusses far more efficient techniques, including one pioneered by himself - MILD, or Mnemonic Induction of Lucid Dreams. He explains how to create conditions conducive to lucid dreaming, how to prolong a lucid dream once one has one, and how to use lucid dreams for creative problem solving, health, entertainment and spiritual growth. <br />I should point out, however, that there is no miracle method for having lucid dreams instantanously. The techniques that this book offers still need to be exercised, patiently and diligently over a period of weeks if not months before results will start to materialize. But if you are willing and motivated to invest the necessary work and effort, this book will be one of the best guides there is.  For those readers who prefer a simple, step-by-step approach, I would also recommend &quot;Lucid Dreams in 30 Days&quot; by Keith Harary and Pamela Weintraub.	2000-12-05
US	52035897	R13L70AZOLKPSY	1571741259	706727630	Infinite Grace: Where the Worlds of Science and Spiritual Healing Meet	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A unique contribution to the sprititual healing literature.	Journalist Diane Goldner has woven the scientific evidence from numerous studies and her own experiences of 4 years of investigating spiritual healing into a compelling narrative. The greatest strength of this book is also its greatest weakness: Goldner's personal impressions of leading figures in the spiritual healing movement. They provide the reader with interesting insights into the more mundane aspects of the 'franchise', such as the petty, almost sectarian in-fighting between different schools of healing - in which the author takes sides. Goldner makes every attempt to not appear too partisan, but the reader is left with a clear impression that Rosalyn Bruyere is the best there is. Oddly enough, the most popular system of spiritual healing - Reiki - is not only not covered, but not even mentioned. <br />Since Goldner makes it clear in her foreword to the reader that she was not aiming for completeness, these flaws are forgivable. All in all a very informative work that is refreshingly different from similar titles.	2000-10-28
US	52035897	R2FGPO68O58GRI	1556431082	625980389	Discovering Homeopathy: Your Introduction to the Science and Art of Homeopathic Medicine Second Revised Edition	Books	5	40	41	N	N	The best introduction to homeopathic medicine on the market.	Dana Ullman, one of the leading advocates of homeopathic medicine, has produced a comprehensive, lucid introduction to this branch of complementary medicine, covering the history and the philosophy of homeopathy as well as the (surprisingly strong) scientific evidence supporting its effectiveness for a variety of conditions. A detailed discussion of the effectiveness and the limits of homeopathy in the treatment of infectious disease, allergies, chronic diseases, psychological conditions and dentistry, as well as its applications in pregnancy and labour, women's health, pediatrics and sports medicine follows.<br />The final part of the book gives concrete advice on how to learn more about homeopathy, in particular about homeopathic self-treatment, and on how to go about finding a homeopathic practitioner.  To avoid misunderstanding, this is not a self-care book. Detailed remedy pictures and usage instructions are beyond the scope of this book. If that is what you are looking for, I would recommend &quot;The Consumer's Guide to Homeopathy&quot; by the same author, which gives a condensed version of the historical and philosophical background of homeopathy as a prelude to a detailed discussion of the self-treatment of acute conditions.<br />A list of homeopathic manifacturers, organizations and schools and a bibliography complete this work.	2000-10-19
US	52035897	R1NIHVG2P6BSLI	1567182615	473908724	Out of Time and Place	Books	1	16	18	N	Y	Does not live up to my expectations.	The back cover of this book asks the reader to &quot;explore fascinating mysteries of history, archeology, and the paranormal with this collection of amazing reports published only in the pages of FATE magazine.&quot; Alas, the book can't deliver. The average article is about 7 pages long, and qualifies as no more than an introduction to the phenomenon in question. When it gets interesting, the article ends, leaving the reader no wiser than before. That a fair share of the articles were written in the 1950s did not exactly improve my overall impression of this book either. Historical sources, if they are to be useful, should be given with short biographies of the authors, but there is no such information. Discussions of whether the arguments of the historical article are still valid, or the questions raised still unanswered, are missing entirely. <br />If there was a good bibliography, this book could at least serve as a starting point for further research, but there is none. <br />This book has little educational value, and appears to be nothing but an attempt by the publisher to make a quick buck off popular interest in anomalous phenomena. I cannot recommend it.	2000-10-16
US	52035897	R3BV7VAL1GB8Y0	0521343232	411138588	Atlas of Uranus	Books	5	9	9	N	N	*The* book on Uranus	When Voyager 2 flew by Uranus in January 1986, our knowledge  of this mysterious world expanded immeasurably. New minor satellites were found, and high-quality images of the already existing ones were obtained. One satellite in particular - Miranda - surprised the astronomical world with terrain of a kind that had never been seen before, or imagined. It was time for another installment in Hunt and Moore's &quot;Atlas of&quot; series. <br />For those who own the &quot;Atlas of Jupiter&quot; and &quot;Atlas of Saturn&quot;, the thinness of this book might be disappointing at first. Where the first two atlases dispense a wealth of information, theories and pictures on Jupiter and Saturn, the third one predictably cannot do so, based on the results of only one robotic encounter as compared to several. <br />Within these limits, the &quot;Atlas of Uranus&quot; gives as complete a picture as possible. It features spectacular, full-page reproductions of the images taken by Voyager 2, a technical discussion of the spacecraft itself, and a historical overview of the discovery and subsequent telescopic exploration of Uranus. I can fully recommend this book to any amateur astronomer or other interested layperson.	2000-10-15
US	52035897	R6S43MI1OM4JV	0521374782	13909553	Atlas of Neptune	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The authoritative guide to Neptune	After their superb atlases of Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus, Hunt and Moore delight us once again with an &quot;everything we know about&quot; book, this time on the farthest of the four gas giants, Neptune.<br />Even more so than its predecessors, this work is primarily based on the data returned by Voyager 2 in its August, 1989 flyby, which resulted in the discovery of the &quot;Great Dark Spot&quot;, of new minor satellites, and gave us spectacular close-ups of the surface of Neptune's sole giant moon, Triton, and its strange &quot;cantalope terrain&quot;. All of these marvels are reproduced in full color, making this book as visually appealing as it is intellectually stimulating. Sadly, since no further missions to Neptune are planned, this will probably be the state-of-the-art of our knowledge of Neptune for some years to come, making this book a worthy investment. <br />A historical overview of the discovery and telescopic exploration of Neptune and a brief technical discussion of Voyager 2's mission and the unique technical challenges it faced during the Neptune encounter complete this work. A wonderful book that should not be missing in any astronomical library.	2000-10-15
US	52035897	R1BHWPQDTUFU4Y	0968368905	261039625	Seeing Red: Redshifts, Cosmology and Academic Science	Books	5	73	83	N	Y	Be ready to give up the Big Bang	Arp argues convincingly that the holy grail of cosmology, the hubble flow, exists only in the minds of astronomers. There are abundant examples of high-redshift quasars which are physically connected to low-redshift galaxies. There is convincing evidence that redshift is quantized, which is inexplicable in the conventional picture where redshift is caused by recession speed. Big bang cosmology has been overthrown, and the evidence against it is getting stronger with new observations.<br />Mainstream astronomy, unfortunately, does not want to recognize this evidence. Scientists who have built whole careers on a flawed theory are not ready to admit that they have been totally, completely wrong. Instead, they have chosen a much easier way to deal with this unpleasant evidence, one that has been succesfully employed in many other fields of science: they suppress, ignore &amp; ridicule, while they keep adding epicycles to their ever more complicated theory of the big bang.<br />Arp's account of the utterly unscientific behavior of the scientific establishment is sobering. It reveals once more how the great human endeavor of science, which should be an unbiased and objective search for the truth, has been corrupted by the vested interests of individuals and academic institutions, blind belief in authority and by herd mentality, and thus turned into something that is eerily reminiscent of the medieval Catholic Church. Then, as today, observations and new theories were suppresed by those in power for contradicting what was considered the truth.<br />Although this book is a bit technical in nature, it is accessible to any layperson with some basic knowledge of astronomy. If that describes you, or if you are interested in great case material for a study of the sociology of science, I can unconditionally recommend it.	2000-09-28
US	52035897	R3AMX3YK0ZFOI	0892132949	466705042	Forbidden Archeology: The Hidden History of the Human Race	Books	5	11	17	N	Y	The scientific method is not dead yet.	&quot;Forbidden Archeology&quot; is a superb, well-documented compendium of both the evidence favoring the conventional picture of human evolution, and the anomalous evidence that casts this picture into doubt.<br />Its larger significance, however, lies in its detailed documentation and analysis of one particular exampe of a disturbing phenomenon that has increasingly crippled mainstream science: the establishment of a new scientific orthodoxy, i.e. a quasi-religious belief by leading scientists in the absolute and unquestionable validity of the basic theories of their field. These theories are then elevated to &quot;facts&quot; of which any dissenter is accused of being ignorant, which makes for a convenient, easy dismissal of any anomalous evidence. Since any such evidence is thus automatically ineligible for publication in the proper journals, this lack of documentation is then in turn taken by researchers in the field as proof that the evidence must be of low scientific value.<br />With &quot;Forbidden Archeology&quot;, Cremo and Thompson have attempted to break through this self-perpetuating cycle of ignorance and denial. The many angry dismissals by &quot;experts&quot; one can read on this page shows that they have done their job well. A truly educational book that will open the eyes of many who are searching for the true origins of humankind. Those who don't have the time or patience to peruse this 900-page tome should consider reading the abridged version instead. Either way, they will come to appreciate one of the fundamental tenets of true science: theory never overrides evidence.	2000-09-21
US	52035897	R196YAMCCHMDJS	0892132949	466705042	Forbidden Archeology: The Hidden History of the Human Race	Books	5	258	318	N	Y	The scientific method is not dead yet.	&quot;Forbidden Archeology&quot; is a superb, well-documented compendium of both the evidence favoring the conventional picture of human evoluton, and the anomalous evidence that casts this picture into doubt. <br />Its larger significance, however, lies in its detailed documentation and analysis of one particular exampe of a disturbing phenomenon that has increasingly crippled mainstream science: the establishment of a new scientific orthodoxy, i.e. a quasi-religious belief by leading scientists in the absolute and unquestionable validity of the basic theories of their field. These theories are then elevated to &quot;facts&quot; of which any dissenter is accused of being ignorant, which makes for a convenient, easy dismissal of any anomalous evidence. Since any such evidence is thus automatically ineligible for publication in the proper journals, this lack of documentation is then in turn taken by researchers in the field as proof that the evidence must be of low scientific value.<br />With &quot;Forbidden Archeology&quot;, Cremo and Thompson have attempted to break through this self-perpetuating cycle of ignorance and denial. The many angry dismissals by &quot;experts&quot; one can read on this page shows that they have done their job well. A truly educational book that will open the eyes of many who are searching for the true origins of humankind. Those who don't have the time or patience to peruse this 900-page tome should consider reading the abridged version instead. Either way, they will come to appreciate one of the fundamental tenets of true science: theory never overrides evidence.	2000-09-21
US	52035897	RHA6DPJGHLXSH	1555835236	407510915	Gay Spirituality: The Role of Gay Identity In the Transformation of Religious Thought	Books	5	44	45	N	Y	Provocative and insightful	Homosexuality is objectively disordered, sinful, immoral. Such are the positions still held by the Roman Catholic church and many protestant Christian denominations. Having grown up with this kind of outright moral  condemnation, many gay men go on to reject organized religion, and there's  nothing wrong with that. Unfortunately, many throw the baby out with the  bathwater, and ban not only religion, but spirituality from their lifes,  leaving them spiritually empty and longing for that missing piece to the  puzzle of happiness.<br />This book can guide you to that piece. It shows that  being gay is a spiritual asset, not a liability. Where some look down on  same-sex love as defective, because it does not express the male-female  duality, Johnson turns it around and proudly declares that to be the  precise reason why same-sex love is spiritually superior. It transcends the  duality.<br />Johnson's vision of a life-affirming, sex-positive spirituality  of love, cooperation, mutual respect and acceptance is in sync with modern  scientific knowledge, and does not ask the reader to suspend logic or  critical thinking. Gay christians who are struggling with their sexual  orientation will especially appreciate Johnson's convincing refutation of  common &quot;biblical&quot; anti-gay arguments.<br />A powerful book for  personal change, a wonderful antidote to the negativity of the Religious  Right, and a great gift to a gay friend who is unhappy with his life or  suffering from low self-esteem.	2000-07-28
US	52035897	R2A9OKAYWK635H	0061008893	286744086	Saved by the Light	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Spiritually uplifting, despite bad predictions	One of the most moving, compelling accounts of the Near-Death-Experience that I know of, Brinkley's story is a powerful antidote to hopelessness and nihilism, and in particular to fear of eternal damnation instilled by the  Christian religion. His experience shows that death is not to be feared. It  is neither the end of existence, nor is it a time of divine punishment. But  most importantly, it teaches us the importance of love. After death,  neither money, nor power or status count, only how much love, compassion  and kindness we have given others. <br />Brinkley's story, endorsed by the  leading NDE researcher, Raymond Moody, is highly credible, even though most  of his predictions turn out to have been inaccurate. For those who would  take this as evidence that Brinkley is a fraud, two observations are in  order:<br />1. This work is not primarily about PSI ability. It is about a  profound, life-changing spiritual experience. <br />2. As part of that  experience, Brinkley was shown a probable future that was likely to happen  if he didn't change his ways. But he changed, and the world changed with  him. That's the point of a negative prediction: to motivate personal change  for the better.<br />This book will of course not impress those who are  looking for scientific proof, but for the others, it will be inspiring and  spiritually enlightening.	2000-07-28
US	52035897	R3AS0BRXV1SVAW	0764100548	879686474	Ancient Egypt (Crash Course Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	A concise introduction to Egyptian Culture and Religion	This pocket book would be my first recommendation to an interested archeological layperson who has an interest in, but no prior knowledge of, ancient Egyptian society, art, history and religion. Reading this  introduction will prepare you for a more in-depth study of ncient Egypt,  its people and Gods.	2000-07-26
US	52035897	R3S2J3YF8AUAD4	0553296124	81931578	Heir to the Empire (Star Wars: The Thrawn Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the best pieces of Star Wars fiction ever written	Timothy Zahn's continuation of the Star Wars trilogy will delight you with a wonderfully elaborate storyline, new, engaging characters, and much deeper insights into the existing ones. Seeing Luke use the force in the  movies was one thing, but being inside his head while he does it, quite  another. This novel adds whole layers of complexity to the characters we  know and love, making their movie versions look more like cartoon heroes  than people. When you are done with this book, your only feeling of  disappointment will be that Lucas had to make those prequels instead of  making this into a movie.	2000-07-23
US	52035897	R3PWYGJVPRSA5C	034535575X	608088682	Past Lives, Future Lives	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Inspirational and spiritually enlightening	Even though the method of hypnotic regression can in principle never produce scientifically acceptable evidence of the reality of reincarnation, Goldberg's book makes a highly credible case that is hard to dismiss as  fantasy or fiction. It will not convince the hardened sceptic (who should  familiarize himself with Ian Stevenson's research instead), but the  open-minded reader will find it compelling enough to consider (or  reconsider) the idea of reincarnation.<br />Those who are already aware of the  objective reality of reincarnation will find a treasure trove of  information and insight on the way karma works, how our past lifes  influence our present life, what to expect directly after death, and in the  state between lifes.	2000-07-23
US	52035897	R1WRPPOM09PYOD	0671793829	913323845	A Christmas Carol (Reissue)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A must-have for fans of Patrick Stewart	As this review is specifically about Patrick Stewart's performance of A Christmas Carol, not the work per se, I will limit my comments to the former. It is a special pleasure and delight to hear a capable, classically  trained actor perform Dickens' classical piece as a one-man show. Stewart's  rendition of the characters is uniquely enjoyable, and adds considerable  dimension to Dickens' work. A true piece of art, and well worth buying.	2000-07-23
US	52035897	R14H11NCNFYV4J	0380777290	490536387	Alien Update	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An captivating mix of fact, analysis and extrapolation	A thought-provoking collection of articles and essays on recent (early 1990s) developments in the UFO field. Highlights include Jorge Martin's case for an extraterrestrial base in Puerto Rico and George Wingfield's  discussion of the 1992 crop circle season. Those of you who do not need any  more evidence to be convinced of the physical reality of the UFO phenomenon  will enjoy several &quot;big picture&quot; essays. Hal McKenzie gives an  astute, witty  analysis of what he calls the UFO &quot;denial  syndrome&quot; and makes some useful suggestions for political activism,   John Spencer grapples with the conundrum of what kind of evidence is  undeniable even to the hardened sceptic, and Dr. James Deardorff puts forth  some intriguing speculation on possible extraterrestrial strategy.	2000-07-22
US	52035897	R3ASH4L31BW85L	0345413970	940144736	2010: Odyssey Two	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Clarke at his best	2001: A Space Odyssey was written at a time when the outer planets of our solar system were only known as fuzzy discs, and their satelites as tiny dots of light. Arthur C. Clarke had to rely on his imagination to create  the evocative outer solar-system vistas of 2001. This all changed when the  Voyager probes flew past Jupiter in 1979, and the world marveled at the  magnificent views of the Jovian system they beamed back to Earth. The  dynamic, colorful atmosphere of Jupiter itself, the newly discovered Jovian  ring system, the active volcanoes of Io, and the icy worlds of Europa,  Ganymede and Callisto inspired the imaginations of millions, including  Clarke's. It was time for Clarke to write what his fans had been waiting  for for over a decade: a sequel to 2001 that would finally answer the many  questions that 2001 had left unresolved, among them, why did HAL fail, and  what happened to Dave Bowman?<br />Often, sequels turn out to be little more  than just dull rehashs of the original work, but not this time. 2010 is as  fresh and breathtaking as the first part, and, as we have come to expect  from Clarke, is packed with surprises, plot twists and awe-inspiring  revelations. The technically sophisticated reader will enjoy discussions of  orbital mechanics, as well as richer character development and more complex  social interactions than those in the previous work. <br />To my knowledge,  this is the book where Clarke started to add gay or bisexual characters on  a regular basis, and I cannot praise him enough for that. In the early  1980s, a bold statement like this took courage and moral integrity, and by  making this statement, Clarke established himself as a social visionary, as  well as a scientific one.<br />Unlike the movie adaptation, 2010 is a worthy  successor to 2001, and a must-read for anyone who has enjoyed the original  novel or movie.	2000-07-22
US	52035897	R2R4DESDZ6EG4E	0874771951	24248326	Homeopathic Medicine At Home: Natural Remedies for Everyday Ailments and Minor Injuries	Books	5	52	56	N	N	An empowering book for everyone	Of all the homeopathic books written for the general public, this is one of the most useful. If you've suffered a minor injury, or come down with a cold, flu or earache, or if you are having an upset stomach, this book will  quickly guide you to the correct remedy. It is easily understood by the  medical layperson, and it will give you solid knowledge of how to treat  yourself and others in a safe, natural way, without the risks, side-effects  and costs of conventional drugs.<br />It goes without saying that any  self-help book, no matter how good, does not replace the care of a medical  professional. If you have a serious or chronic condition, and you think  that homeopathy can help, go see a qualified homeopathic practitioner.	2000-07-22
US	52035897	R39SVVLWVLPKS	067101000X	122227322	All Other Things I Really Need to Know I Learned Watching Star Trek: Next Gener. (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Just couldn't find it funny	I love Sci-Fi, and I love Star Trek: The Next Generation in particular. Despite this, or rather because of this, I like Star Trek humor - writing that makes fun of the recycled  plot lines, inconsistencies, character  idiosyncracies, the bad science, the technobable.. and that's what I  expected from this book. Maybe that's my own fault, for thinking that that  cover line (&quot;Dave demonstrates how the universal appeal and wisdom of  Star Trek: The Next Generation can help to shape a positive and humorous  outlook on life.&quot;) was understood to be tongue-in-cheek. <br />This book  is too good-natured, too inoffensive, too well-meaning and too politically  correct to be funny. To bring out a belly laugh in some of your readers,  you have to risk offense. And you have to touch the three taboo subjects:  sex, religion and politics. This book, being an official work endorsed by  Paramount, can't do that. It has to be lame and inoffensive. It made me  smile every now and then, but it never made me laugh.	2000-07-22
US	52035897	R2GR4J0SPZ94UZ	1556432429	286062898	The Martian Enigmas: A Closer Look: The Face, Pyramids, and Other Unusual Objects on Mars Second Edition	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Strong scientific case for artificiality	Carlotto brings state of the art image analysis techniques to bear on the enigmatic objects of Mars' Cydonia region. He shows that there is a high degree of probability for artificiality, something that NASA and Michael  Malin vigorously deny - to this day. This book is a must-read for any  serious student of the artificiality hypothesis.	2000-07-21
US	52035897	R2GSQ7644ESBYL	1577310705	458940056	Miracles of Mind: Exploring Nonlocal Consciousness and Spiritual Healing	Books	5	73	74	N	Y	A wonderful tribute to the powers of the mind	This hybrid work covers the phenomenon of spiritual healing from both a scientific (Rusell's) and a personal/subjective (Katra's) experience. The scientific part of the book will not convince anyone who is still in denial  about the existence of psi phenomena, as it doesn't discuss hard  statistical data and parapsychological methodology. If that is what you are  looking for, read Radin's &quot;The Conscious Universe&quot; instead.  However, for the reader who has accepted the reality of psi phenomena, but  wants to learn more, it gives a good introduction to the recent history of  parapsychological research, and to what this research has taught us about  the factors that affect psi performance.<br />For me however, the highlight of  the book is Katra's part. Her deeply personal, moving account of healing  people through spiritual means has an immensely uplifting quality, and it  is because of that that I particularly recommended this book to people who  are suffering from a chronic illness. This might help them to keep up hope,  or to regain it if lost.	2000-07-21
US	52035897	R2GS40SMZJDCX3	0062515020	590515841	The Conscious Universe: The Scientific Truth of Psychic Phenomena	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Settling the existence question once and for all.	With this seminal work, Radin deals a devastating blow to those \\"sceptics\\" who still deny the existence of psi phenomena, exposing common sceptical arguments against psi as uninformed or even  pseudoscientific. Radin's argument does not rely on anecdotal evidence, but  on the same solid, accepted statistical methods that are used by the  conventional physical sciences. He addresses and thorougly refutes all the  common criticisms, showing that the sceptical \\"emperor\\" is naked.	2000-07-19
US	52035897	R2TED45IZR6KEW	0345303067	940144736	2010: Odyssey Two	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Clarke at his best	2001: A Space Odyssey was written at a time when the outer planets of our solar system were only known as fuzzy discs, and their satelites as tiny  dots of light. Arthur C. Clarke had to rely on his imagination to create  the evocative outer solar-system vistas of 2001. This all changed when the  Voyager probes flew past Jupiter in 1979, and the world marveled at the  magnificent views of the Jovian system they beamed back to Earth. The  dynamic, colorful atmosphere of Jupiter itself, the newly discovered Jovian  ring system, the active volcanoes of Io, and the icy worlds of Europa,  Ganymede and Callisto inspired the imaginations of millions, including  Clarke's. It was time for Clarke to write what his fans had been waiting  for for over a decade: a sequel to 2001 that would finally answer the many  questions that 2001 had left unresolved, among them, why did HAL fail, and  what happened to Dave Bowman?<br />Often, sequels turn out to be little more  than just dull rehashs of the original work, but not this time. 2010 is as  fresh and breathtaking as the first part, and, as we have come to expect  from Clarke, is packed with surprises, plot twists and awe-inspiring  revelations. The technically sophisticated reader will enjoy discussions of  orbital mechanics, as well as richer character development and more complex  social interactions than those in the previous work. <br />To my knowledge,  this is the book where Clarke started to add gay or bisexual characters on  a regular basis, and I cannot praise him enough for that. In the early  1980s, a bold statement like this took courage and moral integrity, and by  making this statement, Clarke established himself as a social visionary, as  well as a scientific one.<br />Unlike the movie adaptation, 2010 is a worthy  successor to 2001, and a must-read for anyone who has enjoyed the original  novel or movie.	2000-07-19
US	52035897	R15VGBEZ34C9Q4	1573922188	499994879	Making Sense of Astrology	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Convincing refutation of Astrology	&quot;Sceptical&quot; treatises of controversial subject areas all too often suffer from lack of credibility, because they do not take the criticized subject seriously. Instead of making an honest attempt to  understand the subject thorougly (which, in the case of astrology, involves  hard work), they resort to purely rhetorical arguments, ridicule, logical  trickery, misrepresentation of the subject, &quot;debunkery by  association&quot;, sometimes even make up scientific evidence to the  contrary and invent whole studies that were never performed. <br />This  scholarly work does not need any of this.  Keeping the  &quot;sceptical&quot; belligerence to a minimum, the authors make rational,  intelligent arguments that are accessible to any interested layperson who  is willing to invest a little time and effort of thought. A truly  educational work, and worthy of five stars.	2000-07-19
US	52035897	RILMOAMSS35G9	0966725808	33297715	The Monkey & the Tetrahedron: Compelling Connections Between Mars, the Ufo Dilemma & the Future of the Human Race	Books	5	35	37	N	Y	A comprehensive introduction to revolutionary new science	If you're familiar with UFOs and Crop Circles, the Cold Fusion/Free Energy scene and the research of Richard Hoagland,  and if you've read Graham Hancock and Creno &amp; Thompson, you could have written this book  yourself. It contains no original research,  only a summary of the works of  others, held together by some speculation and interpretation.<br />I'm not  holding that against this book, since the author, in his introduction, does  not claim to be more than an investigative writer who's giving a best-of of  controversial science, and what sense he makes of it. <br />With that  limitation in mind, this is a five-star book that I can recommened to any  novice who is interested in getting a comprehensive  overview  of the vast  field of controversial science before studying some of the source material  in detail. Jinks has woven a lucid  narrative that should convince anyone  but the most hardened &quot;sceptic&quot; that mainstream science is in a  state of deep crisis. The very sciencists who pride themselves on being  close to a &quot;theory of everything&quot; remain profoundly ignorant of  whole realms of nature, disparaging investigation of &quot;anomalous&quot;  phenomena as unscientific and outright foolish. In doing so, they  perpetuate the &quot;sceptical&quot; myth that certain subject areas - such  as the ones covered by this book - are *inherently* unscientific, and that  established theories always override actual evidence.<br />As Dan Drasin put  it, &quot;faced with provocative evidence of things undreamed of in their  materialist philosophy, many otherwise mature scientists revert to a kind  of skeptical infantilism characterized by blind faith in the absoluteness  of the familiar&quot;. Jinks gives abundant examples of this sad state of  affairs, from NASA's denial of solid research that indicates that some of  the Cydonia objects are artificial, to the distortions and outright  propaganda produced by the Leader of the Holy Inquisistion of Scientific  Orthodoxy, the late Carl Sagan. <br />Jinks makes a good case that some of the  knowledge currently suppresed by the scientific establishment, zero point  energy in particular, is vital to the continued survival of the human race.  He shows that humanity stands at a historical crossroads; one path leading  to a virtual paradise on Earth thanks to the miracle of unlimited vacuum  energy, the other to self-anihilation.	2000-07-19
US	52035897	R3I2QGS76FC4EZ	0446520179	584236846	Subtle Energy: Awakening the Unseen Forces in Our Lives	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not very deep, but comprehensive	This book gives an excellent overview of energies and forces that are  currently not recognized by the mainstream of scientific research. I share  the previous reviewer's scepticism at the author's detailed knowledge of  the many topics he writes about, so I would not recommend this book to  someone who seeks to study a particular topic in detail. However, as an  introduction or survey of the vast field of esoteric energies, it is more  than adequate.	2000-07-10
US	52035897	R344W9DTERZWD4	1878424076	308690193	Seth Speaks: The Eternal Validity of the Soul	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Enlightening and uplifting.	Seth Speaks is a treasure trove of profound spiritual wisdom and insight. Seth offers intriguing information on the history of the human race, reincarnational and probable selfes, and on the nature of dreams,  consciousness and reality itself. Seth's worldview agrees with the many -  worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics, as well as with advanced  theories of parapsychology. Seth offers a fascinating preview of what a  science of consciousness - a synthesis of quantum physics and  parapsychology - might look like, centuries from now. <br />Seths Speaks is a  fascinating read, and any open-minded, serious student of quantum physics,  psychology, philosophy or parapsychology should find it immensely  stimmulating.	2000-05-16
US	52035897	R3BP10LLQCTFD1	0892811064	988035312	Pyramid Power	Books	2	35	44	N	Y	Promises to reveal &quot;the secret energy of the Ancients&quot;..	..but can't deliver.<br />A full 66 pages, or 6 chapters, of this 200-page volume are wasted with a discussion of the ancient pyramids in Peru, Mexico and Egypt, and the open questions as to their construction and purpose.  Another chapter then revisits the well-known esoteric theories of the  pyramids, and develops a pseudoscientific theory that can only be  characterized as &quot;geometric mysticism&quot;.<br />The remaining 7  chapters then finally discuss what the whole book claims to be about: the  energy of pyramids. No hard data, or theories, are offered to support the  hypothesis that such an energy exists in the first place, only anecdotal  material and personal testimony. At least enough detail is provided so that  the reader can try the experiments and make up his/her own mind.<br />Summary:  if your interest in pyramids is purely theoretical in nature, look  elsewhere. If, on the other hand, you seek to explore what pyramids can do  for you, this book might be of limited usefulness to you.	1999-12-24
US	52035897	R17LX4OPR6Z3G7	0061096865	155619329	Alien Agenda	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Great Primer on the UFO subject.	A comprehensive overview of the UFO subject, covering both the well-known evidence and the more peripheral facets, such as the lunar anomalies, crop circles and cattle mutilations. Highlights include a chapter on the use of  ESP in the investigation of the UFO phenomenon and space in general, and a  discussion of who's in charge of this planet (surprise: &quot;we the  people&quot; are not). Bottom line: if I had to give just two  books to a  UFO novice, this would be one of them (the other would be &quot;UFOs: The  Secret History&quot; by Michael Hesemann).	1999-12-24
