US	52042219	R2716DNUXTQ7J4	1857883233	98629157	50 Self-Help Classics: 50 Inspirational Books to Transform Your Life from Timeless Sages to Contemporary Gurus (50 Classics)	Books	5	201	207	N	N	Truly a rare treasure.	This is the only book I've ever read that made me jealous. I'm the author of the book Self-Help Stuff That Works, published in 1999, and I've never come across its equal (at least in my own biased opinion) until now. Many times while reading this book I felt jealous. Tom Butler-Bowdon has done things I wish I had done. And he writes with a powerful clarity I admire. <br /> <br />Sometimes an author can say what another author has said, but say it clearer and better than the original author. Tom has done that in these pages. He often gets across the message of the original book with far more clarity and punch than the original ever had. <br /> <br />Each classic has its own chapter and each chapter is wonderfully short. There is never a dull moment. The book has a lot of nice features too: pithy quotes from the original book, a summary of the main point of each classic, and recommended books in a similar vein. At the end of each chapter is a short biography of the author. While reading this book I could feel that the author was really making sure I got my money's worth (and he succeeded).   <br /> <br />I have already read most of the fifty books, and it was wonderful to have the meat of those books extracted and laid bare. With Tom's book in my possession, I can now review one of these classics quickly and easily. Repetition is vital to learning, and yet I often don't re-read books because it is so time-consuming, even though I know I could be helped by a review of the material. Now I can review them without investing a lot of time. <br /> <br />Tom clearly didn't choose these fifty books based on popularity. This is an excellent selection. The fifty classics are well-chosen and represent a balanced coverage of the field. Tom includes many of my favorite books of all time: Flow, Feeling Good, How to Win Friends, The Art of Happiness, Self-Reliance, Learned Optimism, Man's Search For Meaning, and on and on. This book also introduced me to some material I would neverhave picked up off the shelf, but I'm glad I have been introduced to it. I loved the chapter on Beothius. <br /> <br />You could think of this book as Cliffs Notes for self-help books. Reading it would be a great way to shop for just the right book to read next. <br /> <br />It was great to find the Bhagavad Gita in this context (that is, as a self-help book, which is truly one of the things it is). Reading Tom's explanation of the overall thrust of the Bhagavad Gita helped me understand it better than I ever have. <br /> <br />The author does not talk down to the reader, doesn't write at a fourth grade level, and yet this is clear and easy reading. And even so, the writing is penetrating, insightful, and intelligent. If you want to learn how to change your thoughts, how to find your best direction in life and accomplish it, how to become happier, how to change your perspective, if you want to explore yourself and make a difference in the world, you'll find more than enough juicy nuggets here to satisfy.	2004-12-14
US	52042219	R287I9VVKT8328	1862042365	941264871	The Book of Meditation	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A balanced look at meditation.	In this book, Carrington answered most of the unanswered questions I had about meditation. I've been reading about and practicing meditation for 25 years now, and I had some questions lurking in the back of my mind like: Are some mantras really better than others? Is it possible to meditate too much? (And if so, how much is too much?) Is there any scientific evidence that meditation makes you more creative? Can it make you less productive? Carrington answers these questions and many more in The Book of Meditation. And her answers are not derived from tradition or what her teachers told her, but from compelling evidence and controlled experiments.<br />And yet she doesn't dismiss tradition as long as it hasn't been proven wrong in experiments. For example, in some traditions, certain mantras are considered dangerous for beginners. There have been no experiments to find out if this is true or not, so she removed those from her list of recommended mantras in her How To Meditate Kit. Her approach is balanced and reasonable. <br />Carrington is not only a researcher but also a psychotherapist and many of her illustrations are patients she has treated, giving a real-live feel to the points she's making. Her examples are interesting and illustrate her points well.<br />Half a chapter was devoted to one excellent example: The New York Telephone Company. Gilbeart Collings, the NYTC medical director, asked Carrington to find out if meditation would reduce employee stress. The first test was on 160 employees and lasted five and a half months. Stress-related physical symptoms dropped dramatically. That's why the company offered the program to the whole company. <br />They eventually taught almost 5000 employees of the NYTC to meditate. Thousands of these meditators were interviewed about the changes taking place in their lives. They felt less tension. Their irritability and hostility dropped dramatically, and so did feelings of anxiety. People reported feeling more tolerant andpatient and less distressed by everyday frustrations. The meditators said they were listening better, feeling more open, acting and feeling kinder toward others, and in general being more like the person they've always wanted to be, at work and at home. This matches what I have found to be true in my own life, but it's great to hear it verified by others.<br />I really liked her chapter, Why Does Meditation Work? That is the exact wording of a question I typed into Google, which is how I found her book. The chapter looks at several explanations of how the various effects of meditation converge to produce such powerful benefits.<br />I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, which is not about meditation, but I can tell you that meditation (taught the way Carrington teaches it) may be the most important self-help stuff you can practice. It works. And this is the best book on meditation I've ever read.	2003-10-22
US	52042219	R2M9OJK9671W1M	1572301317	893169883	The Lost Art of Listening: How Learning to Listen Can Improve Relationships	Books	5	28	29	N	Y	How to get closer to the ones you love.	I picked up The Lost Art of Listening immediately after reading Love and Survival. Those two books, in that order, were the perfect one-two punch. In Love and Survival, I learned how important it is to be close to people. Closeness has an enormous impact on your heatlh. And greater closeness makes people happier.<br />So I realized how important closeness is, but then I realized I didn't really know HOW to get closer to people. I know how to get along with people and how to make them feel good about themselves and how to get them to like me, but I didn't know how to really become close to people, and I had never thought about it. Love and Survival gave some good pointers, but The Lost Art of Listening goes all the way. This isn't a book about business negotiation or anything like that. It's about how to reach that wonderful state of being intimate with someone, really knowing them and being open to them. Listening is the key.<br />Nichols covers the subject very well with lots of good examples and good humor too. And the book is very practical. When you're done, you'll know what to do to become a better listener. You'll know how to become closer to the people you love. I've been putting the suggestions into practice and I'm definitely closer to my friends and family, and happier too. My wife has noticed the change in me (it has been pretty dramatic) and said she didn't know our relationship could be like this. She's ecstatic about it and it's great to see her so happy. Listening well isn't really that difficult, but there's an art to it, which you learn all about in the book. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and Nichols' book qualifies: This is listening-coaching that really works.	2002-11-18
US	52042219	R2SA60XDDD2LKU	0060930209	778077427	Love and Survival: 8 Pathways to Intimacy and Health	Books	5	78	82	N	Y	Points the way to better health and greater happiness.	One of the biggest chapters in this book summarizes the studies showing how closeness to other people is good for your health. Ornish runs a clinic for people who have had a heart attack. And his clinic was the first to show that heart disease can actually be reversed. Doctors used to believe, up until very recently, that you can't reverse heart disease. You may be able to slow it down a little, but once your arteries were clogged, it was gospel that you couldn't unclog them. Ornish showed that you can. They use diet and exercise and...teaching people how to become closer to the people they love. And that increased closeness is a big part of the patient's improvement in health.<br />These men (usually) have a heart attack and their doctor tells them they don't have long to live. They're scared, of course. They come to Ornish's clinic and he tells them they need to learn to be close to people or they're going to die! For the first time in their lives, these men become interested in relationships!<br />I read Love and Survival right after reading the book, Brain Sex, where I discovered that men aren't naturally as interested in relationships as women. Even two- or three-day old babies show this difference. A female baby will look much longer at a human face than at an object. A baby boy is equally interested in objects and people. Extend that interest out over a lifetime and you have women whose lives are relationship-centered and men who don't have time for relationships because they're busy with other things. Then I read in Ornish's book what it takes for men to finally become interested in getting closer to people: The threat of death! So they get interested, and they improve their relationships, and they learn how to become close to people. Some time later they come back to Ornish and report that they are happier than they've ever been. Of course. We all know being close to people is the most important thing in the world and it's the one thing that can't be peeledaway. When people are dying, on the battlefield or deathbed or in some survival situation, and they know they are going to die, the one thing people say is, \\"Tell my wife I love her.\\" Or husband. Kids. The people who are close to you are what really matter. And getting close to them.<br />This book struck me like a revelation. I have been interested in how to get along with people and how to get people to like me and how to persuade people to my point of view, but I had never realized the value of really being close to people. I knew relationships were important but I had missed the point! This book has totally changed the way I've been interacting with people, and you know what? I've never been happier! Seriously.<br />Ornish gives you some good ideas about HOW to get closer to people. He gives you some practical steps to take. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I'll tell you something: Ornish's book contains quite a bit of stuff that works to bring you closer to the people you love.	2002-11-18
US	52042219	RRTM1HFCZ1E8G	1564555356	609578391	The Science of Enlightenment: Teachings & Meditations for Awakening Through Self-Investigation	Books	5	56	58	N	N	How to Reap the Benefits of Meditation	I usually like to read when I have quiet time at night, and I usually only listen to tapes when I CAN'T read, like when I'm driving. But I became so enraptured by these tapes, I ended up sitting immobile and transfixed, listening late into the night. Shinzen Young is the most intelligent, articulate teacher of Buddhism I've ever heard. He hasn't written any books yet, but he has recorded several audiotape programs. This twelve-tape set is a recording of 24 talks he gave to a live audience, with one complete talk per side of each tape. He explains what mindfulness meditation is for, exactly how to go about it, and what you can expect for results. Three of the tapes have a guided meditation on each side.<br />Shinzen founded and runs a meditation center, and here he delivers excellent meditation instruction, but he also shows you the big picture. He knows a lot about world religions and gives a great history of Buddhism: what it evolved out of, and how it has evolved since it started. He covers some of the most important principles of Buddhism such as equanimity and the meaning of impermanence. You will learn the difference between the three branches of Buddhism and how they got to be what (and where) they are.<br />Shinzen is well-schooled in several languages, in mathematics, and also in science, adding extra dimensions of sophistication to his explanations and lending more credibility in my Western mind for the things he says. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I've specialized in distinguishing practical information from ideas that are merely fascinating. All this intellectually interesting information would be pretty worthless, in my view, unless it served a practical purpose and helped to reach a practical end, which in these tapes, it does. Using this program, you can begin fairly quickly gaining the vast benefits of meditation for yourself.	2002-07-24
US	52042219	RHHZUUCO85F94	0877732264	182232018	The Experience of Insight: A Simple and Direct Guide to Buddhist Meditation (Shambhala Dragon Editions)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Clear and Understandable Buddhism	If you've ever been perplexed or baffled by books on Buddhism - especially books on Zen Buddhism - your perplexity will vanish when you read this book. The Experience of Insight is a well-edited transcription of many talks given to participants over the course of a one-month meditation retreat. The teachings are largely coaching for meditation. During the retreat, these short talks were small pockets of coaching between large stretches of silence and meditation. That may be why the information comes across so clearly and so usefully. <br />You'll learn, probably with more understanding than you've ever had before, the Buddhist fundamentals: The Four Noble Truths, the Eightfold Path, the seven factors of enlightenment, etc. But they are explained in a way that makes their relevance and importance to your practice perfectly clear. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I've specialized in knowing the difference between information that merely sounds great and instruction that actually helps, and Joseph Goldstein manages to deliver teachings that will really help you in your meditation practice. He will inspire you, encourage you, and teach you good technique. If you meditate and would like support for your practice, The Experience of Insight is the best you will find.	2002-07-24
US	52042219	R1F7SQ0971YRFI	1559270357	65385836	Five Classic Meditations	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Effective training for an important skill.	Audiotapes are a great way to learn meditation. Much better than a book. All you have to do is close your eyes and follow instructions. I've listened to many meditation-training tapes and Shinzen Young's is my favorite because you learn not only WHAT to do, but WHY you're doing it and what you can expect for results. And he makes everything clear and simple. <br />Although Young has had extensive training in Buddhist meditation in Japan, he is a born-American and can speak to our needs as Westerners in a modern society. He has successfully stripped away the merely ornamental aspects of meditation and delivers only the essential and fundamental. <br />Shinzen Young has not only been trained in Buddhist practices in the East, but is an accomplished scholar and successful businessman in the West. He has a practical mind and a lucid way of teaching...If you would like to learn to meditate, or if you want to deepen your practice, Five Classic Meditations contains the kind of teaching that can really help.	2002-07-12
US	52042219	RLXMBSQP4K7L6	0553102907	82419076	After the Ecstasy, the Laundry: How the Heart Grows Wise on the Spiritual Path	Books	5	35	35	N	N	What happens after awakening?	Zen stories and Buddhist tales all seem to end with someone becoming enlightened. What happens after that? You never find out. You get the impression that they live in bliss and happiness forever after, and yet you know somehow that can't be true. Jack Kornfield interviewed a lot of people who have awakened, most of them highly accomplished teachers and abbots and lamas, most of them born and raised in the West (but trained in the East), and you get to hear them tell you what life is like after enlightenment. I thought an enlightened person never got angry or afraid or sad. I didn't even realize I held such perfectionistic misconceptions until I noticed this book shattering them. <br />After the Ecstasy is generously sprinkled with the actual words, sometimes half a page or a page long, of people who have been meditating 15, 30, even 40 years. You'll find out what brought them to the meditative path to begin with, and what they've learned along the way. It's fascinating. <br />There are lots of good anecdotes in this book; interesting and illuminating anecdotes (most of them are true stories). In many Buddhist and Zen books, you read the same stories again and again in different books, but here you find fresh stories, some ancient, some modern, and all very good. <br />Jack Kornfield is first and foremost a meditation teacher, so woven throughout the book is plenty of good coaching. The meditative path is difficult, and good teaching is vital. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, so I've specialized in knowing the difference between teachings that help and those that are merely interesting. In After the Ecstasy, you'll find interesting reading material AND coaching that will truly help you in your practice.	2002-07-09
US	52042219	RI5CBE84Y4UG8	157062769X	708126403	Voices of Insight	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Buddhism as it is practiced in the United States.	Each chapter of Voices of Insight is written by a different author, and almost all of them were born and raised in the United States. Then they trained and became ordained and legitimate lamas, abbots, Zen masters, and Buddhist teachers in India, Thailand, Japan, etc., and came back to the U.S. to teach. Buddhism is different in every country and in every historical period, and in this book we can see what modern American Buddhism is like. I think you're going to like it. <br />Voices of Insight is also a good Buddhist primer. One author tells the history of Siddhartha Gotama Buddha and explains important basic ideas like nirvana and samsara. Another author covers the Four Noble Truths and the Eightfold Path. Joseph Goldstein's chapter on the science and art of meditation explains what meditation is for and what you should be doing when you're meditating more clearly than anything I've ever come across, and all by itself makes the book worth getting.<br />This book is helpful. It will help you develop your practice. It is not merely interesting and educational; it is practical. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, so I'm sort of an expert on applicable information. Voices of Insight is not only illuminating and enjoyable to read, it is thoroughly applicable.	2002-07-06
US	52042219	R1FNLDKUESKZDB	1578660394	176322013	Dale Carnegie's Lifetime Plan for Success: The Great Bestselling Works Complete In One Volume	Books	5	52	53	N	N	The bestselling book of all time, plus.	These are two of the most useful books ever written, bound together into one volume. The first book, How to Win Friends and Influence People, is the bestselling book of all time, second only to the Bible. Why? Because it has solid, practical advice on an important subject (dealing with people). Practicing the principles in this book has brought me friends, love, enjoyment, and even money. No kidding.<br />The second book is How to Stop Worrying and Start Living. It's about dealing with stress and anxiety, and the information is practical and very helpful. This book is not only about how to deal with worry, but also has effective suggestions for how to be more effective at work and how to keep yourself rested and feeling good.<br />I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I have recommended these two books more than any others because they are packed with more useful ideas per page than any other books ever published, and believe it or not, I'm not overstating my case. Getting both books bound into one and at a great price just makes it that much better.	2001-10-26
US	52042219	R1GLBN7LHTKH6F	1881273156	277335936	The Five Love Languages: How to Express Heartfelt Commitment to Your Mate	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Just what a self-help book ought to be.	Chapman's information is clear, simple, and practical. He uses good illustrations, and the idea really makes a difference. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, so I guess you could say I'm an expert on self-help, and this is self-help at it's finest!<br />The idea that people differ in what gets through to them, in what really makes them feel loved, is one of those that after you hear it you think, &quot;That is so obvious, I should have thought of it myself,&quot; but it had never occurred to me. I was, however, immediately able to put the idea into practice, and it made a huge difference in my marriage. I highly recommend this book. The tape is also good, and a good way to keep the basic ideas fresh in your mind while you work them into your life.	2001-10-22
US	52042219	R2HUMJC52KKGCH	0312266286	189412618	Painfully Shy: How to Overcome Social Anxiety and Reclaim Your Life	Books	5	102	108	N	N	Up-to-date, practical information.	A tremendous amount of research has been done on anxiety disorders in the last fifteen years. Researchers have discovered a lot about what causes it and what can be done about it, and in this book you'll find the latest information.<br />Social anxiety disorder is most common anxiety disorder and the third most common psychiatric disorder over all (behind depression and alcoholism). If it's so common, why haven't we heard much about it? Because the nature of the problem keeps it hidden. \\"Can you see a movie-of-the-week,\\" says psychologist Thomas Richards, \\"about a very shy person who rarely leaves the house except to go to work, who has no friends, and is afraid of answering the door at times?\\" Who would watch a movie like that? The authors of Painfully Shy said that after their first book (Dying of Embarrassment) was published, a television talk show called them and said, \\"We want you on our show if you can bring several articulate, outgoing social phobics with you.\\" What the heck were they thinking? Social anxiety disorder doesn't get much coverage because anyone with the problem is trying to avoid the public eye.<br />But this book brings social anxiety into the light. Anxious thoughts and feelings CAN be managed successfully, and this book will show you how. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and if you want practical, helpful advice that will really work to overcome your shyness, I highly recommend Painfully Shy.	2001-10-21
US	52042219	R31XF2RYNA7E4M	1573221112	457800928	The Art of Happiness: A Handbook for Living	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	The best of East and West.	Here is a surprisingly good book, written by a psychiatrist who interviewed the Dalai Lama many times. The book is a combination of narrative by the author and extended quotes of the Dalai Lama's answers. And Cutler asks some good questions.<br />Sometimes the Dalai Lama's answers seem simple. Part of it is the language. English is obviously not his first language, so he uses almost nothing but ordinary, everyday English -- no jargon, no technical terms, no psychiatric lingo. And yet he obviously has a profound grasp of human nature. Another reason his answers sound simple is because they are rooted in practicality. He isn't trying to explain how things are, he's trying to describe what you can DO to become happier. Descriptions of actions are much simpler and more concrete than explanations.<br />I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I found the psychiatrist's orientation and the Dalai Lama's practicality combined to make some excellent self-help. I've tried many of the Dalai Lama's suggestions and they really work. One of his suggestions is to think about the similarities between you and other people -- specifically that they want to be happy, just like you do, and they also suffer, just like you do. I know it sounds almost too basic, but when I've actually thought about that while talking to someone, I feel noticeably closer to the person, and that feeling of closeness is relaxing, soothing, calming, and very pleasant. That feeling of closeness increases my happiness. <br />The Art of Happiness is an excellent book and I recommend it highly.	2001-10-20
US	52042219	R7LRNPO2K08QO	0684841932	350679884	How I Overcame Shyness : 100 Celebrities Share Their Secrets	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Short, fun, practical.	One of the things I like about this book is that the messages are so personal. That makes the writing easy to read. And because the messages are from famous people, the book has a lot of authority. Those people have obviously gotten over their shyness enough to become famous!<br />Or NOT gotten over their shyness. The book is inspiring because you realize that 1) shyness can be overcome, and/or 2) you can succeed even in highly public fields and remain shy.<br />This is not the magic bullet that will tell you all you need to know about overcoming shyness, but it will inspire and motivate you. So if you are on the path to overcome your own shyness, this book is a welcome companion. I'm the author of Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I can tell you that simple inspiration and motivation works very well to keep you taking the actions that will eventually change your life. I recommend this book.	2001-10-18
US	52042219	R1C0OQECAA6ARG	0553374443	808519457	Triumph Over Fear: A Book of Help and Hope for People with Anxiety, Panic Attacks and Phobias	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	From a woman who's been there.	I've read a lot of books on anxiety, and this is the best. Ross once suffered from an anxiety disorder herself and tried to find treatment, only to be told it was in her head. A lot has been learned about anxiety disorders even in the last ten years, and Ross knows all about it. She not only tells you about the treatment available through therapists (with contact information and resources at the back of the book) but if you want to do it yourself, the book is full of practical advice. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I can tell you without any hesitation that Triumph Over Fear is self-help stuff at its best. I highly recommend this book. Buy one for yourself and share one with a friend or family member who may suffer without realizing help is available.	2001-10-16
US	52042219	R3SEXDG2DLM9AC	1582970041	349706107	From Me to You: The Reluctant Writer's Guide to Powerful, Personal Messages	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Significant and practical suggestions for more impact.	This book taught me five elements I can add to personal letters. I don't mean formula-type statements; these are excellent questions that make you think about details. When you add them into a letter, they transform your message from a &quot;nice note&quot; to a truly meaningful message that really gets through.<br />Last week, my sister visited (she lives 1000 miles away) and I just wrote a letter to her. My letter was so much more meaningful because I applied the principles in this book. It was not difficult or complicated to add those important elements into my letter, but it added so much more to my message than it had in the beginning. I was able to get across my message much more completely and satisfyingly. <br />Letters can really enhance communication in any relationship. Not only can a letter be reread (and so become more memorable), it can make an important communication much easier for the receiver to fully absorb because they can read it without anyone in front of them expecting a response. And a letter can be cherished long after you're gone.<br />I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and these writing principles really work. They're helpful. They're practical. I highly recommend From Me To You.	2001-10-11
US	52042219	R2M8TBX8SFCGE	0316611166	266483215	The Road to Success is Paved with Failure : How Hundreds of Famous People Triumphed Over Inauspicious Beginnings, Crushing Rejection, Humiliating Defeats and Other Speed Bumps Along Life's Highway	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A vital nutrient if you have a difficult goal.	This is a fun little book. But more than that, this book is an excellent resource to browse frequently if you are trying to accomplish a challenging goal. As the researcher, Martin Seligman, has shown, what determines whether you give up after a setback or try again is how permanent you think the setback is. Browsing this book, you see example after example of people who went on to succeed after experiencing setbacks. You see that your setback might not be permanent. This puts the fight back in you. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I can tell you that reading Mr. Green's book really works. The more times you try, the more likely you will succeed, and this book will inspire you to try again.	2001-10-11
US	52042219	R2GAGM90K1SQXB	1855382741	780764337	The Heart of Buddhism: Practical Wisdom for an Agitated World	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Buddhism without Asian adornments.	If you're looking for a book that clearly explains Buddhism without the trappings -- robes, lotus postures, beliefs about reincarnation, talk of cherry blossoms -- The Heart of Buddhism is the book for you. Guy Claxton is an intelligent writer and the writing is compact, condensed; he says a lot in every paragraph. And the writing is straightforward and easy to follow. If reincarnation exists and if Buddha was reincarnated in some modern, English-speaking country, how would he communicate his message? I think it would be very much the way Claxton has done it in this book.<br />Claxton clearly explains how our own general agitation and unease and even our self-centeredness has come about -- how it is really inevitable given our approach -- and how it can be alleviated. An interesting idea I got from this book is that a third of our unhappiness is caused by external circumstances. Two thirds is self-created, and that's what Buddhism is designed to cure.<br />Why is Buddhism becoming more popular? Claxton wrote, 'It is THE 'religion' for a secular age, concerning itself centrally with improving the quality of everyday life, requiring no adherence to obscure or magical beliefs, and offering a penetrating analysis of the condition -- or lack of it -- that we find ourselves in, as well as a powerful and proven set of specific techniques for increasing happiness, kindliness and peace in people's lives.'<br />He goes on: 'Buddhism is really a deep do-it-yourself kit of ideas and practices for changing in the directions that most people would like: more openness, less defensiveness; more tolerance, less irritation; more ease, less worry; more generosity, less selfishness; more naturalness, less self-consciousness; more equanimity, less frustration.'<br />In this book you get a thorough understanding of the Four Noble Truths (written from an understanding of their meaning rather than translating an Asian understanding into English), a clear explanation of the Noble EightfoldPath and the Five Precepts. Claxton describes the different forms of Buddhist meditation and how they work. There is a great chapter near the end of the book on the benefits of Buddhist practice. <br />On page 168 is a spreadsheet showing a 'brand comparison' of the five most popular kinds of Buddhism (Zen, Tibetan, etc.) which rates each for its emphasis on ten different things like 'moral discipline' and 'reverence for lineage.'<br />Buddhism is self-help at its finest. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I can tell you this with authority: Buddhism is one of the finest set of practical self-help tools available on the planet, and Claxton clearly explains how these tools can be used by Westerners. I recommend it highly.	2000-12-18
US	52042219	RP92JN4YFJACS	0385492677	78406902	The Accidental Buddhist: Mindfulness, Enlightenment, and Sitting Still, American Style	Books	5	54	55	N	N	An enjoyable, interesting book.	The author of this book set out on a search to find out what American Buddhism might be like. What we have in U.S. is Tibetan Buddhism, Japanese Zen Buddhism, Vietnamese Buddhism, etc. All Asian. If you stripped away all the cultural adornments, what would Buddhism look like in modern America? Is it even possible? Or is Buddhism so naturally Asian that when you strip it clean of Asian-ness, nothing is left? That was Dinty's question.<br />The Accidental Buddhist is the story of his search. He went to weekend retreats where he meditated all day (and sometimes got to ask the head Buddhist dude some questions), he set up personal interviews with some of the most famous Buddhists in America. He talked to John Daido Loori of the Zen Mountain Monastery, the Tibetan Monk Geshe Lobsang Tenzin Negi, Father Robert Jensen Kennedy (Zen teacher and Jesuit priest), Helen Tworkov, the editor of Tricycle: The Buddhist Review, Bhante Henepola Gunaratana (author of the excellent book, Mindfulness in Plain English), and he even got to ask the Dalai Lama a question. Dinty found many different kinds of Buddhism, many different levels of intensity of practice, but they all shared the core of Buddhist principles, which, by the way, I found beautifully explained in a book called The Heart of Buddhism by Guy Claxton (who is a British writer, and ironically, is the closest I've seen to what Dinty was looking for: American Buddhism).<br />Dinty tells you what he found, and in the process, you get a pretty good understanding of what Buddhism is about. Dinty is honest, charming and disarming. He's got a great sense of humor. The writing is good (easy to read, flows well, not academic-ese), and the author is very human and easy to identify with.<br />I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and the principles of Buddhism work. But what we need is exactly what Dinty was searching for: Those principles without the shaved heads, chanting in a foreign language, superstitious beliefs,etc. The Accidental Buddhist is a broad look at several different forms of Buddhism, and points the way, in an entertaining book, of how we might find our own American Buddhism.	2000-12-08
US	52042219	R2VZJWO5T9SIXS	0764551167	451345387	Meditation For Dummies	Books	5	152	158	N	N	If you only get one book on meditation, this is the one.	There are an incredible number of books on meditation, but this one is the largest collection of information on the subject I've ever seen, from the most broad perspective. Bodian is a Buddhist, but he covers many other kinds of meditation in an unbiased way. And he tells you step-by-step how to do them. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and the only helpful thing I didn't cover in my book was how to meditate, even though meditation is valuable, scientifically-validated, and good for your health, both psychological and physical. It wasn't necessary to write about it because so many good books have been written, and Bodian's is the most complete. This is a practical handbook anyone can use to learn to meditate, delivered in an interesting, easily-accessible format. I recommend it highly.	2000-12-03
US	52042219	R2OVUTJZJCB1QK	0553299611	138629087	Lila: An Inquiry Into Morals	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Interesting, entertaining, and thought-provoking.	I really enjoyed this book the first time I read it and the second and third time too. I love Pirsig's writing style. I love how he weaves so much interesting information and new points of view into a story, giving your brain a break once in awhile. There is a lot of food for thought here. I still have a lot of digesting to do. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and although Pirsig's book isn't directly self-help, it isn't merely philosophical either. He's got a new way to look at the same things we've been looking at all along, and the new perspective would naturally lead to new actions. Will those new actions improve the quality of your own life or the lives of others? I don't know. The organization of levels of quality: biological, social, etc., and the distinction of static vs. dynamic quality are very fundamental concepts and any benefit that might come out of it might not be as apparent as you'd think. But whatever you can say about this book, it is thought-provoking. The reviews below are very much FOR the book or AGAINST it. To me that's a sign of a book that has the potential to shake things up, in this case, I think for the better.	2000-11-30
US	52042219	R37EAZUZN9XU9L	0395528089	973533060	Stretch and Strengthen	Books	5	68	70	N	Y	The perfect compliment to a desire to exercise.	This book and Judy Alter's earlier book, Surviving Exercise, have the answers I've been looking for. I love to exercise, but I've been plagued with injuries for years. And of course, the injuries set me back and have kept me from exercising as much as I'd like. I've been looking for some sound, scientific information on stretching, but have found very little. I had the feeling stretching would help prevent injuries, but what's the right way to stretch? I had found scientific evidence that stretching can CAUSE injuries, too. It's amazing to me how many books are available about stretching that have no scientific basis whatsoever. Some get their authority from tradition (like yoga) and some are merely the author's opinion. But finally someone has written a book about how to stretch so the stretching actually helps and doesn't harm you. Judy tells you exactly how to do the exercises. Sometimes the stretches are a lot like the ones I've done before, but small differences -- how you hold your foot, the position of your head, whether or not you're keeping your back straight -- can make the difference between hurting yourself with the stretch or helping yourself. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and one of the most important things I recommend is exercise. It makes a big difference in your general attitude and sense of well-being. Alter's book tells you how you can KEEP exercising for your lifetime, without pain or injury. I love this book and highly recommend it.	2000-11-01
US	52042219	R27EZTSTK93UZG	0861710649	324018314	Mindfulness in Plain English	Books	5	91	99	N	N	The best you'll find on mindfulness meditation.	I love this book. It is straightforward, thorough, and easy to read. I don't know who Gunaratana is, but he does a great job with this book. Even the layout of the book is clean and simple and pleasant.<br />If you are  interested in vipassana or mindfulness meditation, or even zazen, this book  is worth reading. It tells you how to do this kind of meditation, and what  to do with the problems that come up. It is a practical handbook and it's  also fun to read. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works,  and I can tell you with some authority that the techniques Gunaratana  describes in this book work, and they are worth applying, even if you don't  sit still. You can do your work with mindfulness. You can talk to your  child with mindfulness. Anything can be a meditation. Mindfulness in Plain  English will show you how. I recommend this book.	2000-02-05
US	52042219	R3VHF0LVKS0R4J	0375705104	53440924	The Way of Zen	Books	5	49	56	N	N	Alan Watts at his best.	Watts is a scholar, first and foremost, and a brilliant writer. In this book, you'll learn where Zen came from. It has its origins in India, where Buddhism was created, and then became as fresh as a gust of wind on its way  through China and Chinese Taoism. Zen reached its full fruition after it  arrived in Japan.<br />The book is separated into two sections. The first  tells the history of Zen. The second describes the practice of Zen. But all  the while, Watts opens your mind and you get the real FEEL of Zen. I'm the  author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I can tell you that  Watts' way of writing works: It will change the way you look at the world.  This book is very much worth reading.	2000-02-05
US	52042219	RE9UBHR9Y69LX	0553244531	570395880	How to Meditate:  A Guide to Self-Discovery	Books	5	92	97	N	N	The best basic training manual on meditation written.	Although Lawrence LeShan has degrees from three universities, he writes with a simple, completely straightforward style. The first section is on the benefits of meditation. And the next section describes how to do four  different kinds of meditations.<br />If you are interested in meditation and  you want the author to get right down to business, this is your book.  LeShan says what he has to say in 137 pages. I'm the author of the book,  Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I'm an expert on what works and what  doesn't. Meditation works, and LeShan's instructions are effective and  practical. I highly recommend this book.	2000-02-05
US	52042219	R2E6Y7LCV79LIH	0385237375	931847582	To Thine Own Self Be True: The Relationship Between Spiritual Values and Emotional Health	Books	5	33	35	N	N	A profound and practical book.	This is one of my favorite books of all time. Andrews talks about what he calls Ethical Therapy. His main point is that it is psychologically healthy to act ethically, to treat others well, to conduct yourself with very  little pretense, to try to do what's right and tell the truth, etc. He  presents considerable scientific evidence for this assertion (which you  don't really need, because once you look at your own life through this  assumption, you get plenty of direct experience demonstrating its  validity). <br />For most of the book, he shows how a greater level of  integrity can solve psychological problems. Each problem gets its own  chapter. Chapter titles are: Beyond Depression, Beyond Guilt, Beyond Fear,  Beyond Anxiety, Beyond Addiction, etc.<br />It is a surprisingly practical  book. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I am an  expert on what is effective. The suggestions Andrews puts forth in this  book are simple, powerful, and extremely effective. I highly recommend this  book.	2000-01-12
US	52042219	R3CQMF0EOBIXJP	0140067477	446789245	The Tao of Pooh	Books	5	13	21	N	N	Enjoyable to read and relaxes the mind.	This is a delightful book which conveys the spirit of Taoism very effectively. If you are the kind of person who goes gung-ho into something, you shouldn't read this book, because it is only half the truth. But if you have a good balance with the other half, this is a great book to help you  relax your mind and free yourself from counterproductive struggling against  the way things are.<br />The Taoist philosophers were not, in general, very  successful people. Taoism tells us a lot about being content, and tells us  nothing about accomplishing goals. Both skills are important.<br />I'm the  author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I'm an expert on what  works and what doesn't. The perspectives Hoff presents in this very  readable little book are, without a doubt, highly effective in producing  contentment and relaxation. The skill of taking those perspectives when you  need to is a valuable skill. This book can help show the way. I recommend  it.	2000-01-12
US	52042219	R190KHKYRJQZJD	020152385X	372545274	Healthy Pleasures	Books	5	26	26	N	N	An important message.	Ornstein and Sobel write an entirely readable book about an important topic. Everyone knows that we need to exercise and eat right to be healthy. But not everyone knows that many of the things we ENJOY are healthy. And  enjoyment ITSELF is healthy! <br />The authors go into great detail about the  different ways you can enhance your health and enjoyment and they cite  research to back up what they're saying. Indulge yourself in pleasure:  Music, good scents, good flavors, optimism, naps, fun, pets, good friends,  etc. These are some of the healthiest things you can do.<br />If you are  interested in maintaining or improving your health AND interested in having  a good time along the way, this is the book for you. I'm the author of the  book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I'm an expert on what is effective  and what is not. The ideas and research behind this book are important and  valuable and very much worth reading.	2000-01-11
US	52042219	R1P872YJDDSNIC	0671739891	43371965	The Silva Mind Control Method	Books	5	46	51	N	N	If you would like the health benefits of meditation...	...and if you would like to accomplish your goals more effectively, this book is for you. Silva tells you how he developed his method, and what he has done with it. Then he tells you how, step by step, you can accomplish  the same things. It is a meditation method, but it's more ACTIVE than most  (and more enjoyable). Many scientific studies have been done on this method  and they find it has all the benefits of mantra meditation, including  reduced stress, increased health, and a greater sense of well-being. In  addition, you can use your relaxed frame of mind to accomplish tasks while  you are meditating. For example, you might create a solution to a problem,  or generate good ideas to help you reach a goal.<br />I'm the author of the  book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I'm an expert on effective self-help.  The Silva Method is a very effective way to help yourself to a better life.	2000-01-11
US	52042219	R28A3VXNIME4P5	0465024114	516590408	Finding Flow: The Psychology of Engagement with Everyday Life (Masterminds Series)	Books	5	129	152	N	N	How to experience more enjoyment in life.	This is a simpler, more practical book than Csikszentmihalyi's other popular work on the subject (Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience). He explains how you can apply the insights from his teams' experiments at  the University of Chicago. They've been studying enjoyment for over thirty  years -- what it is and how people create it. They are not studying simple  pleasure, but real, enjoyable absorption in a task. <br />Csikszentmihalyi  originally studied artists and noticed it wasn't the end-product most good  painters were after, it was the process of painting. He was surprised to  see painters finish a painting and immediately set up another canvas to  continue painting -- without even looking at the masterpiece they had just  created. This intrigued him and so he has spent his lifetime exploring this  interesting and enjoyable state he calls &quot;flow&quot;, and he knows  something about how we can have more of it in our lives. <br />I'm the author  of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I'm an expert on what is  effective. Csikszentmihalyi's work is in that category. You can apply his  insights and truly experience more enjoyable flow in your life.	2000-01-11
US	52042219	R2R1T2CWLYG2QU	0201523418	156761132	Mindfulness (A Merloyd Lawrence Book)	Books	5	152	170	N	N	Read this book several times.	This book is still selling well after ten years because Langer is a first-rate researcher who can write. And not only that, the subject she chose to study is extremely valuable and important. <br />The book is  basically about mindLESSness: What causes it, what we can do about it, and  what difference it makes. If you would like to be more creative in your  work, if you would like to be more alive and awake, if you would like to  stay mentally young for your entire life, read this book. I'm the author of  the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I'm an expert on what is  effective and what is not. Ellen Langer's work is effective and extremely  important, both for you personally and for society at large. I highly  recommend this book.	2000-01-10
US	52042219	R26W3WBLFMKW3R	0449218783	804301991	Million Dollar Habits	Books	5	40	44	N	N	Solid principles for success.	I've read a lot of books on success, and they all say basically the same thing: Have a goal, keep a good attitude, work hard. But reading it isn't enough. Some fundamentals have to be constantly reinforced. Ringer presents  ten basic principles for success and presents them well. He adds a couple  of important principles many writers neglect, like how to deal with people  who drain you of your enthusiasm.<br />It is easy reading, and will reinforce  your commitment to doing the fundamentals. Sometimes you just have to hear  something one more time to make it stick. I'm the author of the book,  Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I am an expert on effective self-help  material. Million Dollar Habits fits the bill. Definitely worth reading.	2000-01-10
US	52042219	R1N2Y4Z72Z1KCY	0394733118	524016534	Tao: The Watercourse Way	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Enjoyable reading by a genius.	Alan Watts is obviously an extremely intelligent and well-read man who has a wonderful way of writing. He is British and sharp as a razor, and his use of analogy is entertaining and clarifying. He knows a lot about Chinese  caligraphy and about Taoism in general, so his interpretations of many  well-known and already-translated verses adds a fresh new perspective, and  I think a valuable one.<br />One thing Alan does that many writers do not is  apply the insights to life. He tries to show how your own life can be more  enjoyable by using these Taoist perspectives, and he does this effectively.  I'm the author of Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I am an expert on  self-help. The ways of perceiving the world Alan presents in this book are  effective in making life more enjoyable. I highly recommend it.	2000-01-06
US	52042219	R1852GYM4EK46I	0399118349	783782671	Stop! You're driving me crazy	Books	5	12	12	N	N	How to untangle the communication mess you're in.	This is the clearest description of how people (especially couples) get into the tangled web of resentments and withholds so common in a marriage and how to get out of the tangle. It is profusely sprinkled with examples  of dialog, which not only makes the book easier to read, but makes the  principles crystal clear.<br />The first part of the book clarifies exactly  what the problem is. The second part of the book spells out what you can do  about it. I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and much  of what I've learned that really matters about communication can be traced  back to this book. It is a shame it is out of print, but if you can find a  copy, buy it!	2000-01-05
US	52042219	R16GPOJGUZ4Y6E	0809270617	529469400	Success Forces	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Valuable book. It should be republished!	I read this book many years ago, and its message still rings in my ears. Sugarman lays it out, plain and simple, and he sticks to the fundamentals. Six of them. Each has its own chapter. The book starts with Sugarman  telling his story and goes on to the success forces, which he attributes to  his success. In each chapter, he illustrates the principles with incidents  from his own life, making this a very readable book. <br />I'm the author of  the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I know something about what works  and what doesn't. The principles Sugarman spells out here work, and they  work every time. If you can find this book, buy it. If you know the  publisher, tell them to reprint it.	2000-01-05
US	52042219	R3HM3RWBVVKX9Z	0671733354	132993260	How to Stop Worrying and Start Living	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Very practical ways of dealing with stress.	This book is about how to deal with many different sources of stress (in the 1940's, when this book was written, stress was called worry). The principles are as sound now as they were fifty years ago. I am the author  of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I know what works and what  doesn't. Carnegie's book is packed with useful ideas you can apply today  and gain relief from stress, worry, tension, and fatigue.<br />Like his other  popular book, Carnegie gives you short, pithy principles you can easily  remember and apply, illustrated by entertaining true examples, often of how  famous people applied the principles. It is good reading, and when you're  done, you'll have the tools you need to feel good more often.	2000-01-02
US	52042219	REJ7DQY8ORE1U	0060921927	805990862	The Evolving Self: A Psychology for the Third Millennium	Books	4	34	47	N	N	Good reading for people who want to make a difference.	I enjoy Csikszentmihalyi's work. His name is pronounced chick-ZENT-me-high. He is a good writer, a brilliant and original researcher at the University of Chicago, and his work has great practical  value. I love his examples of how leaders at certain times and places have  given order to a chaotic world, and how he translates that into how WE can  bring order into OUR chaotic world.<br />Csikszentmihalyi's work is about work  itself: How to make it enjoyable. And beyond that, how can we bring a sense  of meaning into our lives? How can our work become more meaningful and more  enjoyable? He explores it well.<br />I am the author of the book, Self-Help  Stuff That Works, and I am an expert on practical self-help.  Csikszentmihalyi's work is practical. I recommend this book.	1999-12-30
US	52042219	R1FFW8JJIS4DMT	0060920432	668386410	Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience	Books	5	35	39	N	N	So basic and fundamental, you should read it at least once.	Csikszentmihalyi (pronounced chick-ZENT-me-high) did some original research into enjoyment. He strapped pagers onto people and it rang 8 times a day at random. Whenever it rang, the subject was to write down what they  were doing and rate their state of happiness and enjoyment on several  scales. After 100,000 of these reports, he has found out some fascinating  (and USEFUL) information about work, enjoyment, and creativity.<br />I have  read this book several times, and I'm always forcibly struck by the  profundity of the first few chapters. The writing goes deeper and more to  the heart of the human condition than anything else I've ever read.  Csikszentmihalyi lays it out so straight and honest that it is almost a  shock to the system.<br />The chapters that follow are pure genius in my  opinion, and they all have a solid, practical value. If you would like to  &quot;get into&quot; your work more, if you would like to ENJOY your work  more, you should read this book. I am the author of the book, Self-Help  Stuff That Works, and I'm an expert on what is practical and helpful and  what isn't. It's not often a book is both profound AND practical, but this  one is. I recommend it highly.	1999-12-30
US	52042219	R2WJ8AOOY8PHSK	088289126X	607976532	See You at the Top	Books	4	14	20	N	N	One of the best motivational books on the market.	This is a big book, 384 pages, and Zig packs as much value as he can onto every page. There are many many practical tips, amusing illustrations, fantastic analogies, and motivating stories. The book has been through at  least 28 reprintings. You can feel the refinement, the sifting out over the  years of anything less than great, and the accumulated creme de la creme of  Zig's long speaking career. Here is the best of Zig Ziglar.<br />He lays out  his religiosity with a heavy hand, and that's the only reason his book  doesn't rate five stars with me. But his principles for developing  confidence, motivation and success are sound. It is enjoyable reading, and  you will learn a lot about Zig himself. I'm the author of the book,  Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I know what works. If you want to get  motivated, this book will do the trick!	1999-12-27
US	52042219	R118LD92LOVUJ3	1880369060	560471611	Law of Success	Books	5	95	102	N	N	The all-inclusive, original success book!	Napoleon Hill was commissioned by the richest man in the world at the time, Andrew Carnegie, to create an economic philosophy. Carnegie said philosophers had concentrated on morals, and there were plenty of moral  philosophies, but not one economic philosophy, and it was a shame. Every  person who had risen from poverty to wealth had to do it on his own,  learning from the brutal (and slow) trial-and-error method. Carnegie  thought that was wrong, and he challenged Napoleon Hill to correct  it.<br />Carnegie then gave Hill letters of introduction to the most  successful men of the time: Henry Ford, Thomas Edison, F. W. Woolworth,  William Wrigley Jr., etc. Hill interviewed (and in some cases LIVED WITH)  over five hundred extremely successful people, many of whom you have heard  about, to discover what philosophy they used in succeeding. After twenty  years of this kind of research, he created an adult education program. The  writings for that program were eventually bound into eight volumes, and now  they are all bound into one giant book. It's great. I'm the author of the  book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I know from personal experience that  the principles Hill writes about WORK! And he is fun to read.	1999-12-26
US	52042219	R3EPSD45OOHWPJ	067173265X	94843297	Success System That Never Fails: Success System That Never Fails	Books	5	137	153	N	N	It'll get you PUMPED!	If you are a salesman or trying to accomplish a difficult goal, this book is worth reading. W. Clement Stone, who later teamed up with Napoleon Hill to write Success Through a Positive Mental Attitude, is quite a success  story. Starting from nothing, he was ultimately worth over 500 million  dollars. His is a story of persistence and enthusiasm, and much of this  book is autobiographical -- the story of how Stone did it -- and he goes  into specific detail. It is an enjoyable read. I am the author of the book  Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I am an expert on what works and what  doesn't. This book will effectively motivate you and increase your  determination to succeed. And that, my friend, makes a big difference!	1999-12-26
US	52042219	R2VRJYETS8VRXX	0449909719	88792264	What You Can Change ... and What You Can't: The Complete Guide to Successful Self-Improvement	Books	5	34	39	N	N	We only have so much time.	It pays to focus your attention and effort on what changes will give you the biggest gain for the smallest effort. Martin Seligman tells you exactly that in this book. Seligman is the reining president of the American  Psychological Association, a thorough researcher, and a damn good writer.  He not only tells you what is easier and harder to change, based on the  research, but gives you short, to-the-point suggestions (also based on the  research) on HOW you can change those things. I'm the author of the book,  Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I'm an expert on the subject, and I can  tell you Seligman has written a very practical book. It is definitely worth  reading and re-reading.	1999-12-26
US	52042219	R2CTKAE42IO65E	0937100005	765819904	Self-Help Without the Hype	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	The essence of practicality!	In the tradition of the One Minute Manager, this book is delivered as a short story of a younger man learning from an older man. The content is simple. And it is extremely practical. I wrote the book, Self-Help Stuff  That Works, and I have to say I was a little jealous at what Epstein had  done. It is clear, simple, and one hundred percent practical. Epstein says  his real-life model for the older man in the book is none other than B. F.  Skinner, who Epstein knew personally.<br />The only reason I didn't give the  book five stars is that the typesetting needs improvement. It isn't really  an important element and it doesn't change the value of the content, but it  distracted me a few times. Now that Epstein is the editor of Psychology  Today, he'll probably get some professional typesetter to fix it up. But  don't wait. This book is definitely worth reading as it is.	1999-12-26
US	52042219	R2EIGWBHWX738I	0764550616	617115280	Success For Dummies	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A complete book on success.	Zig covers all the bases in this book. Full of good stories and solid principles, Success For Dummies is worth reading and re-reading. It is laid out like all the Dummies books, so you can read small portions at a time,  or browse through it and read what you want for now. It's fun to read and  teaches a lot. I thought it was a surprisingly big book for only 17  dollars! I'm the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I can  tell you, as an expert in the field, Zig teaches what works!	1999-12-13
US	52042219	R2MX09PD9K0KVF	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	5	21	24	N	N	One of the best books of all time.	I have been inspired by this book for 20 years. There is a reason it is still selling so well. It is not only a great first-hand account of life in Hitler's concentration camps, but Frankl takes this worst of all  circumstances and transforms it into a purposeful, meaningful, even  enriching experience. If he can do that with THOSE circumstances, what can  we do with ours!  As the author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, I  am an expert on what kind of writing meaningfully imacts a reader. Frankl's  book is about as good as it gets!	1999-12-13
US	52042219	R1VMC3ZEFAC0JO	0761511636	132167864	Character Is Destiny: The Value of Personal Ethics in Everyday Life	Books	5	17	21	N	Y	Well worth reading and rereading.	This short book takes a good look at the value of trying to be good. It's a subject that doesn't lend itself well to easy reading, but Gough has been able to write a book worth reading that is also enjoyable to read. I felt  enriched when I was done with the book. Enriched, lifted up, and I find it  easier to be my best self. I'm the author of Self-Help Stuff That Works,  and I am an expert on what works. This book works. It causes a positive and  lasting effect in the reader.	1999-12-11
US	52042219	R29L5A4FWWV4J8	1570713383	307169771	Unstoppable: 45 Powerful Stories of Perseverance and Triumph from People Just Like You	Books	5	30	32	N	N	The right kind of inspiration.	This is not just another collection of true stories because the KIND of stories collected here make all the difference. These are not just stories of people making a million dollars by making a cheaper product and beating  the competition. These are the kind of stories that encourage people to  succeed by doing good works in the world. They are the kind of stories you  will want to read to your children. If you have a goal that is difficult  but you feel really needs to be done, this is the book for you. I'm the  author of the book, Self-Help Stuff That Works, and I know what works. This  book will inspire you to action.	1999-12-11
US	52042219	R7SJOEEG6EN57	0399118349	783782671	Stop! You're driving me crazy	Books	5	11	11	N	N	If you've got someone in your life who drives you nuts...	...then this is the book for you.<br />People have a tendency to hide their true wants and feelings in order to be nice and get along better with others. When this is done in a close relationship, it can cause an  extremely frustrating pattern that drives you both crazy. <br />This book  clearly illustrates how this communication pattern works, what it is, and  what you can do about it. The book is full of examples. When you read them,  you'll instantly recognize the situations, because we are all the victims  of crazymaking throughout our lives. But when you learn what motivates the  crazymaking tactics, you're in a much better position to find your way to  sanity.	1998-12-12
US	52042219	R6H2W8PYO0OHO	0911226273	961946871	Using Your Brain--For a Change: Neuro-Linguistic Programming	Books	4	20	29	N	N	Bandler gives a brand-new look on things.	Bandler is an innovator and an original thinker in the field of psychology. This book is a transcript of Bandler live in front of an audience, cutting up and cracking jokes as he is prone to do, talking about  some of his unique and often practical views on how you can change your  feelings, thoughts and behavior. Change is often easier than you think if  you use the right method.	1998-12-12
US	52042219	R31S42UI9J83EC	0812690982	245391279	The Good Mood: The New Psychology of Overcoming Depression	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Practical techniques for curing your own depression.	This is an excellent overview of the practical insights of cognitive science. And Simon adds a genuinely original contribution to the field: The idea that all our depressing thoughts spring from our universal tendency to  compare ourselves or our circumstances to someone or something else. If the  comparison is good, we feel good; if it is bad, we feel bad.<br />Of course,  if you look at your own life in an overly negative or pessimistic way, your  comparison may turn out worse than it really is, making you feel bad  unnecessarily. And if you decide you're helpless to improve your state,  that will make you depressed. From the simple idea of comparison, all the  different modes of cognitive science are clarified and fit into the larger  picture. Simon normally writes on economics. He wrote this book because of  his own personal struggle with depression.	1998-12-12
