US	52052616	R3F47A5401K3AA	1585675601	473100658	The Warrior Prophet (The Prince of Nothing, Book 2)	Books	3	30	43	N	N	Blood, death, starvation, conspiracy and war	This is the second book of what Bakker envisions will be the first of two consecutive trilogies in his fictional world of Earwa; the first was also in the 500-600 page range, so know what you're getting into. <br /> <br />The set-up is a more complex rendition of standard fantasy fiction fare: Two thousand years ago the ultimate evil, Mog-Pharau the No-God, walked the earth and created an Apocalypse that halted only because of the power of Seswatha the sorcerer and Anasurimbor Celmonas, wielder of a great talisman, the Heron Spear. <br /> <br />Presently, the Apocalypse is a distant memory and the secret cabal of magi (The Consult) who plot the return of the No-God and use the demonically lustful skin-spies as soldiers, is a child's ghost story to all people except the Mandate Schoolmen -- a sorcerous group who are the heirs to Seswatha.  The \\"schools\\" of sorcery are divided such that the Mandate possesses sorcerous knowledge that the other schools seek, but which only the Mandate can be trusted to use. <br /> <br />The lands themselves are divided into two main religious groups, the polytheistic Inrithri and the monotheistic Fanim, whose names derive from their prophets.  The Inrithri beliefs are a polyglot of Muslim, Catholic, Hindu and even some Judaic lore.  The Fanim are essentially unexplained, but most closely resemble Crusades-era Muslims.  The Inrithri \\"pope\\" calls for a holy war against the Fanim, and that war is the near-exclusive backdrop of this book.   <br /> <br />Bakker is a philosophy doctoral candidate, and it shows.  He also ruminates about religion.  The semi-subversive theological question Bakker asks in this series is: what would have happened if an impure Jesus (put aside the potential contradiction of that characterization) hijacked the Crusades? <br /> <br />Bakker peoples the story with innumerable names, the vast majority of which mean nothing.  Only about four primary characters are ultimately important: Achamian the Mandate Schoolman whoworries that the Consult has returned and the Second Apocalypse is nigh; Esmenet, the whore who is the Mary Magdaleine figure of the series; Cnaiur the savage, who is filled with self-hatred and seeks to destroy the man who destroyed him; and Anasurimbor Kellhus, the titular Prince of Nothing -- a Jesus figure (33 years old, bearded, prophet, origins mysterious, from a faraway land, searching for his father, with the power of persuasion through his voice and sermons), who is as much anti-Jesus as Messiah, whose destiny and desires remain somewhat mysterious throughout and whom Achamian believes is both the Harbinger of the Second Apocalypse and humanity's potential savior. <br /> <br />How Kellhus manipulates the holy war, and how others are in turn manipulated by events they have no knowledge of, is the main plotline as the holy war moves closer to its destination, the holy city of Shimeh.  <br /> <br />Bakker recounts a lot of the story as a history (battles and other events), leaves Achamian for about 100 pages at a critical point, and concentrates entirely too much on the viewpoint of Esmenet.  The story is full of death, blood, famine, thirst, plague, torture and the interwoven themes of sex-as-love, lust for power with sexual manifestations, sex-as control, sex-as-torture, sex-as-physical or emotional dominance, sex-as-identity.  Get the picture? <br /> <br />Overall, the book is interesting, disturbing, occasionally challenging, and ultimately nowhere near as good as either the first entry (The Darkness That Comes Before) or the much better Malazan Book of the Fallen series by another Canadian, Steven Erikson.	2005-08-10
US	52052616	R3SMG1LK5XTUTI	0765310023	63115515	Deadhouse Gates (The Malazan Book of the Fallen, Book 2)	Books	4	31	38	N	N	Powerful and imaginative	It is actually a tribute to Steven Erikson's writing that this book is so hard to plow through. This is because his vivid descriptions of the central heroic event of the novel -- a retreat from a conquering army that is akin to Mao's Long March (although it's the potential \\"good guys\\" who are retreating, not a future oppressor of 1/2 of Asia) -- is so realistic. The retreating army's despair, desperation, resignation, determination, heroism, intelligence, brutality (and those of its enemy) are palpable to the point that it is difficult to read of the dire straits of the heroes.  The second main plot thread is nearly as dreary as the youngest sister of Gardens of the Moon (book 1) hero Ganoes Paran is captured and sentenced to imprisonment in a mining camp.  Her transformation from happy noble youth to defeated young woman to embodying a cultural icon conveys numerous tribulations, and few triumphs. <br /> <br />Deadhouse Gates also has three or more other major story threads that are largely separate from Gardens of the Moon (book 1 of the Malazan Empire series), and is essentially a stand-alone novel. Nonetheless, Deadhouse Gates fits squarely within the overarching narrative that connects all the books in the series (and which becomes more apparent in Memories of Ice, book 3 of the series). It contains the story elements that have launched Erikson's career -- gritty stories of heroism and villainy, vivid action, intriguing cultural elements, a long and rich history preceding the story at hand, unquestioned originality (especially in comparison to 95% of the fantasy fiction available) and the feel that the world he created is starting toward a gargantuan eruption with innumerable initial tremors. <br /> <br />Note that the whole Malazan Cycle is projected at 10 books total, but Erikson writes relatively fast (he's slowed to about 3 Malazan books per every four years, which is pretty good considering the size of the books and the side projects he is working on). Nonetheless, they're worth the time and effort to procure and read.  <br /> <br />Highly Recommended.	2005-02-11
US	52052616	R11YF1MRSEHUGA	0375760008	836911555	Night Soldiers: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another winner from Furst	Khristo Stoianev flees his native country in 1934 as the Communists and Fascists begin to wage war for the hearts and minds of his Bulgarian countrymen.  He goes to the USSR and becomes an NKVD (the KGB's predecessor) trainee.  After his training Stoianev is assigned to help the Communists during the Spanish Civil War; fights with the French Resistance in World War II and travels across Europe to try to save a jailed victim of Stalin's purges. <br /> <br />This is one of Furst's earliest World War II era spy novels and differs from his others (Dark Star, The Polish Officer, Blood of Victory, Kingdom of Shadows, et al.) in a number of ways.  First, it is longer (456 pp. paperback, only Dark Star is as long); second, it follows the adventures of trained spies, not ordinary people who become espionage agents due to circumstances; third, the main protagonist is only 19 at the start of the book's setting in 1934 Bulgaria, not a middle-aged man who had fought in World War I or the Russian Revolution; fourth, the story follows the actions of more than the main character (some of his co-trainees from the NKVD), in decided contrast to Polish Officer or Blood of Victory; fifth, the scope is broader -- from Khristo joining the NKVD in the mid-1930s to the end of World War II. <br /> <br />Nonetheless, the elements present in all Furst WWII spy novels are present in this one: the evocative writing that depicts the tensions of pre-WWII Europe, the bursts of tense action, the swift pacing and the palpable despair of wartime Europe.   <br /> <br />Furst's novels are called \\"noir thrillers\\" with good reason.  These were dark times and Furst conveys that extremely well.  The lengths his characters go to for their causes, the tribulations that they experienced and their struggles with their own identities are convincingly portrayed.  This is not Furst's best (I think Dark Star is) because Khristo is not as interesting as some of Furst's other protagonists.  But nonetheless, this is more than worth your while.	2005-02-11
US	52052616	R7RUNMC210OYW	0553262505	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great, yet again	The Earthsea Trilogy (now five books total, but originally A Wizard of Earthsea, The Tombs of Atuan and The Farthest Shore) is part of the fantasy canon and the first book is by far the best.   <br /> <br />From headstrong and impatient youth, to upstart schoolboy to true wizard (wizard derives from the words \\"wise\\" and \\"one\\"), A Wizard of Earthsea follows the rites of passage of Ged who learns to control his power, his emotions, and his knowledge as he journeys through his adolescence -- he becomes a greater wizard and better person with age and adversity, a lesson LeGuin imparts to her primary readership in this book (teens and young adults). <br /> <br />There's a lot here in this small book: a fully developed world, a system of magic (the true name concept that one can obtain power over something or someone by knowing its true name) that has spawned similar magic systems in other fantasy worlds (Black Company's true name of sorcerers, Belgariad's Will and the Word),  a school of magic, a plethora of dangers and adventures, and one of the great mage-mentors, Ogion the Silent.  All of which is evoked simply, swiftly and without authorial self-indulgence. <br /> <br />Plus, this is a rare fantasy series because its heroes are not European-esque Caucasians.  The Earthsea islands seem like North Sea chains, but Ged (reddish-brown skinned), Ogion (same) and Vetch (black-skinned) are the main heroes and none is a typical Caucasoid male.   <br /> <br />This is one of the great books of fantasy fiction.  Enjoy.	2004-12-07
US	52052616	R1DOXDAXQTV2CA	1585675598	380195986	The Darkness That Comes Before (The Prince of Nothing, Book 1)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Solid start to a potentially interesting series	There is something in the air or water in large English-speaking countries with small populations that result in interesting fantasy fiction writings -- from Australia come Lian Hearn, Ian Irvine and Sean McMullen; from Canada come Guy Gavriel Kay, Steven Erikson and now R. Scott Bakker.   <br /> <br />Bakker adds some interesting twists on standard elements to the fantasy genre: five competing schools or guilds of sorcery, various religions, a lost memory of the evil that caused the apocalypse of 2000 years before, a shadowy group of evil men (and creatures) that seek to awaken the dead god of destruction, and a mystery man who heralds either the coming of the next apocalypse, humanity's salvation or its doom.  Bakker's not as good a writer as Kay, nor as imaginative as Erikson (who is?), but the philosophical underpinnings of the story are intriguing and Bakker is certainly a better-than-decent writer in his own right. <br /> <br />The daily internecine warfare and political intrigues (between sorcerous associations, between rival nations, etc.) are interesting enough to carry most of this 600+ page (paperback) novel, but more will be necessary to build up the series.  Hopefully, Bakker will be able to retain control of his narrative. <br /> <br />One negative point: Bakker's depiction of women as uniformly second-class citizens used for sex and breeding (except for one Queen mum who is a harpy) lacks depth, variety and realism (all the men from varying countries in the book have different characteristics and worldviews, why is that not also true for the women in those places?).   <br /> <br />Nonetheless, there are enough interesting concepts, plotlines, backstories and histories here for a good start to a new fantasy series.  I'm glad that Bakker's work took less time than the unforgiveable four-plus years it took US publishers to catch on to Steven Erikson.	2004-09-27
US	52052616	RW7TPAKP355ET	0765310015	599137545	Gardens of the Moon (The Malazan Book of the Fallen, Book 1)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Now available in the US -- rousing beginning to series	Erikson gives you no time to get your bearings in this book -- it starts with a short prologue of background and then the main story starts up in the middle of a decades-long conflict played out both in the mortal realm and among the various deities (Ascendants).      The plot is deceptively simple: on the continent of Genabackis, Darujhistan, the last \\"Free City,\\" is targeted for conquest by Malazan Empress Laseen.  But Laseen wants not only conquest but to purge the Empire of her enemies -- the warriors who fought for and were loyal to the Emperor she deposed in a coup less than a decade ago.  Thus, the conquests serve a dual purpose: expansion of the Empire, and trap for her perceived enemies.  Against the Empire are enemies ancient and new -- the mysterious otherworldly Tiste Andii, the various tribal warriors on the continent who seek to retain their independence, and certain deities who bear their own grudges against the Malazan Empress.  Meanwhile, to defeat her enemies, the Empress will risk unleashing massive destructive sorceries that have lain dormant for thousands of years.    This series logs the lives of Erikson's characters, and those affected by them, during the various wars of the Malazan Empire -- thus the \\"Book of the Fallen\\" concept that is essentially a Black Company-like annals of the people who die, are killed, are raised to divinity or lowered to squalor in the wars of Malaz.  Nonetheless, there is a looming evil that threatens all of Erikson's world -- barely hinted at in this volume but explained later.    Erikson is straightforward in his writing, not much excess wordiness, because there is a lot of story he is trying to tell, and he is working on a broader, more far-reaching story than any author of the serial fantasy genre, Jordan and Martin included.  His previous life as an archaeologist seeps from the pages as Erikson hints at societies and populations of creatures both human and humanoid that existed eons before the time of his story.  Nonetheless, despite the huge storyline, Erikson peoples his story with memorable characters who are noble, ignoble, interesting, heroic, normal, superhero-esque, tragic and demonic, and often a mix of those qualities together.  The forces of \\"Dark\\" and \\"Light\\" are, however, not delineated because no \\"side\\" is clearly defined.     This series is work (and not just in obtaining copies of the books, which now FINALLY are being published by Tor, even though the series is five books strong in the UK and Canada with the sixth due out in July 2005). Each volume is more than 700 pages (paperback) and filled with graphic details of the horrors of supernatural war, difficulties of superhuman effort, the evil of complete betrayal and (especially in Deadhouse Gates, volume 2) the enormity of heroic sacrifice. Gardens of the Moon is therefore \\"thicker\\" than its 700+ paperback pages (although Tor mercifully squeezed the text into less than 500 pages in hardcover). Nonetheless, it is very interesting, well-written and highly imaginative. A fine addition to the genre and a welcome title in Tor's vast SF&F library.	2004-06-07
US	52052616	RUMXP2V6AOPUM	0060932309	23196018	Sharpe's Tiger (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Bloody good	This is the first Sharpe series book that I read, and it won't be the last -- I plan to follow the series in chronological order (although that's not the order in which Cornwell wrote them).  <br />Richard Sharpe is an infantry grunt who joined the British army to avoid jail for his crimes.  Beaten down by his sergeant, trudging through southern India in England's ubiquitous (woolen) redcoat, he first considers fleeing the army but is soon framed for a whipping after encountering his first firefight.  Events and a sympathetic officer contrive to launch Sharpe into a spy mission to rescue a British officer who is in the custody of the Tippoo of Mysore -- the man whose kingdom the British are trying to topple in order to control southern India and who has planned a surprise for the British for their impending attack on his fortress.<br />Cornwell keeps the action flowing, uses his viewpoint characters well and has vast knowledge of both his general historical subject as well as the tactics, arms and daily life of the British army in the Napoleonic era.  Sharpe is a common soldier with a strong will to survive and an appreciation of loyalty and bravery, not a super-heroic James Bond with old weapons.  And Cornwell doesn't pull his punches regarding the darker aspects of British imperialism.  This is accessible writing that flows, unlike other historical novelists who write with an eye for the arcane.  Good stuff.	2004-04-05
US	52052616	R2CHW6BKGGA3DT	0812550285	557548547	A Crown of Swords (The Wheel of Time, Book 7)	Books	3	33	43	N	N	The descent begins . . .	This series has gone completely in the tank and A Crown of Swords is where the tanking begins.  By itself, ACoS has decent action and some plot developments.  But its resolution is ambiguous, unlike each of the previous six books, and it adds more questions to a plotline already polluted with innumerable mysteries, intrigues, factions, and characters from the six previous books (and 3500+ pages) that preceded it.<br />After the end of Book 6 (Lord of Chaos), it seemed that the series had regained its direction.  But in ACoS, Jordan introduces numerous &quot;new&quot; characters (most notably Moridin), new concepts, and new intrigues.  The pacing slows to a near crawl for nearly 600 pages before erupting to the uncertain ending.  Worst of all is the dithering by Rand, the messiah figure who is paralyzed by inaction for most of this book and Book 8. <br />The first five books of this series are great.  But book 6 is an interlude from the non-stop action and this book begins the series descent into unabashed authorial self-indulgence.  To wit: The Wheel of Time Series is now at 10 books plus a prequel and a guidebook but less has happened to the characters and the plotline in books 7-10 than did in any two books of the first five.  The 10 books are probably seven times the length of Lord of the Rings and at least two or three more sequels are likely. <br />If you're prepared to stick it out to a (hopefully) colossal ending, then get this book, the execrable Path of Daggers and the others.  If not, get out now and save yourself the grief so many other disappointed fans have endured.	2004-02-24
US	52052616	R122GJVYFLRXGO	0345456327	438530765	The Belgariad, Vol. 1 (Books 1-3): Pawn of Prophecy, Queen of Sorcery, Magician's Gambit	Books	4	192	196	N	N	Story grows as the hero does	The Belgariad is Eddings' first and best fantasy series.  First published in the mid-1980s, the Belgariad differed from other fantasy fiction because: (1) it was not based on the elf-dwarf-human creature structure like Lord of the Rings and its various copycats (Terry Brooks, Weis/Hickman, Dennis McKeirnan, etc.); (2) it had mature and defined political systems (including a country that popularly elected its king), international relations and ethnic patterns, unlike even the more mature fantasy offerings of Donaldson (Thomas Covenant) and LeGuin (Earthsea); (3) it had a unique formulation of magic -- the will and the word; and (4) it inverted the purpose of the fantasy quest -- the EVIL ONE sleeps and the heroes seek to prevent his awakening BEFORE he begins his attempt to take over the world (again).<br />Eddings narrative is sly and occasionally slick -- the characters balance seriousness with humor and the dialogue is often very funny.  His world is believable because the political and religious interactions make sense.  The best feature of the Belgariad is its relative tonal change -- from reflecting the innocent wide-eyed view of young Garion (the hero, farmboy, of course) in Pawn of Prophecy, the next two books become darker and more serious as Garion begins to realize who he is and what is at stake, and he comes to grips with who his \\"Aunt Pol\\" and his \\"Grandfather\\" really are.<br />Eddings' books are also something of a quest story with a travelogue in the world he created -- in the Belgariad he leaves no country untouched in the western continent; in the Mallorean the characters go to every major district in \\"boundless Mallorea\\" and his other series (Tamuli, Elenium) are similar.  <br />If they sound repetitive, that's because they are -- Eddings repeats the same formula with some variations in his other series and the various wisecracking and irreverent humor that is refreshing in the first Eddings series you read becomes tiresome and predictable thereafter.  <br />That said, the Belgariad is the first, the most original and probably the best farmboy-saves-the-world quest of the genre.	2004-02-02
US	52052616	R3K9RS7XFNJ3H0	0553293354	834333861	Foundation	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Very good anthology	The first book in Asimov's Foundation Series is actually an anthology of stories tracing the formation of the Foundation to its growth into a competitor of the Galactic Empire.  The premise is simple, its execution complex: the Galactic Empire has started to decay even though the Empire itself denies the truth.  Hari Seldon is a psychohistorian whose mathematical theories of historical psychology have allowed him to determine when the Empire will crumble and the probabilities of the aftermath.  To avoid a Dark Age, he sets up the Foundation at the outer edge of the galaxy to preserve the knowledge of humanity.  The stories in Foundation deal with the formative years of the Foundation and its growth from an (outwardly) academic's and historian's interest into a power on (and behind) the galactic stage guiding humanity's redevelopment.<br />Cleverly written and plotted with quick-moving events and the interesting theory that humanity's future for hundreds and thousands of years can be predicted based on probable outcomes.  This is the foremost intellectual, yet generally accessible, science fiction series ever written.  The lone drawback is that Asimov did not finish it before he died.	2004-01-29
US	52052616	R39RW4RM13E23Z	0553813129	347309733	Memories of Ice	Books	5	14	17	N	N	World torn asunder	This is a powerful, intriguing and disturbing book with tremendous action and great world-building.  Erikson's Malazan world is a land of tyrants, armies, war, pillage, betrayal, destruction that is highlighted with themes of honor, duty, loyalty, perserverance, and some humor.  The scope and depth is even greater than Jordan, and the timetable has been much better because Erikson is essentially publishing at a volume per year pace.<br />Memories of Ice, the third in the series, essentially continues the story after Gardens of the Moon.  The Malazan warriors seeking to conquer the continent of Genabackis have been deemed traitors by their Empress.  They join with former opponents to halt a mad cult that has conquered cities in the southern part of the continent.  The reason: the Pannion cult acts as if possessed, and starves its followers; they become an army of cannibals to conquer new territories for (ahem) food.<br />But that's only a small part of the larger scope of these tales.  A great war is about to begin that makes the Malazan imperial aspirations seem petty by comparison, and Erikson begins to reveal its major actors in this volume.  The war includes gods, demigods, and humans.  Erikson's world also is peopled with numerous (usually humanoid) non-human creatures, all of whom have different powers and abilities and different societal structures.  <br />It's about time that Steven Erikson has begun to get some well-earned attention and kudos in the US for his Tales of the Malazan Book of the Fallen series.  Previously available only in the UK and Canada (US stores would purchase from Canadian stocks), Tor recently became Erikson's US publisher and the books will come out in Tor editions starting in 2004.	2003-12-10
US	52052616	R1O9H7HGGWG83T	0394578902	785034034	The Master Spy: The Story of Kim Philby	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Solid reporting, poor analysis	Knightley scored a tremendous journalistic scoop in 1988 -- the ability to interview Harold Adrian Russell (Kim) Philby, the KGB's greatest success story in penetrating the West's intelligence services, in Moscow.  Philby rose throught the ranks of British intelligence to become the head of Soviet counterintelligence in MI6 (Her Majesty's Secret Intelligence Service) even though he was a Soviet penetration agent (a mole).  As it happened, the interviews with the then 76-year old Philby took place shortly before Philby died.  Knightley then fashioned the interviews and his own previous research on the Cambridge spies (Maclean, Burgess, Blunt, Cairncross and Philby) into this semi-sympathetic biography.  Knightley quotes Philby extensively, even on issues not directly related to Philby's actions; and a result is that the book is often a soapbox from the grave for Britain's worst traitor.<br />To his credit, Knightley jams the book full of insider facts and information on operations of the CIA, MI5 and MI6 (which is always referred to as SIS, the Secret Intelligence Service).  He also shows both how good and lucky Philby was to not get caught.  The book has a great deal of information and Knightley's research is thorough.<br />Unfortunately Knightley's conclusions are suspect.  He makes some rather inane asides: claiming the Rosenbergs did not give any valuable information to the Soviets (he was later proven incorrect after the CIA declassified the Venona files); claiming that British newspapers would not publish Philby's writings when he had journalistic non-official cover if they had been found anti-Semitic (which is preposterous on its face if you read the Independent or Knightley's own Guardian; for anti-Israel readers, you'd be outraged at the Telegraph); and the ludicrous concept that J. Edgar Hoover cleared Philby of espionage.  Hoover blew the whistle on Philby and attempted to push the issue (as Knightley shows), but the British Foreign Office and SIS coveredup and denied the undeniable -- Philby's spying for the USSR -- yet Knightley attributes blame for this bungling to Hoover.<br />Other problems are found in Knightley's repeated failures to connect cause and effect, generally in the area of American distrust of British intelligence agencies.  The US \\"McCarthyite\\" aura in the FBI and CIA that Knightley claims existed, and which he claims made SIS so reluctant to investigate American allegations that SIS had been penetrated by the KGB, did not exist because of Joe McCarthy's railing against Hollywood, but instead was a justified reaction to fears of Soviet penetration.  US intelligence had known since 1937, when Walter Krivitsky defected from the USSR, that the Soviets had a mole in British intelligence (Krivitsky's information clearly pointed to Philby, no one in Britain looked, and the US did not have a full-time counterintelligence agency until the CIA was formed in 1948; Philby first came into the US picture as SIS liaison in 1949).  In 1944-45 US intercepted the Venona transmissions to the USSR and deciphered them to learn that a Soviet agent (Maclean) was moving up the ranks in the British Foreign Office.  By 1951, the US was closing in on Maclean (who had been re-posted in Turkey in '49 and back in the US in '51) with no help from the British.  Maclean escaped, with help from Burgess.  In 1951-52, the FBI and CIA began connecting Philby to the USSR.  In the face of this, the SIS did nothing, and MI5 repeatedly bungled the Philby investigation.<br />Despite the vague moral equivalence Knightley displays, he nonetheless tells a well-researched tale that is worth a look for espionage-history fans.	2003-12-01
US	52052616	R2N2QJS1CZ84XM	0060933291	45372276	Sandy Koufax: A Lefty's Legacy	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fine social biography of a good man	Jane Leavy had a daunting task -- writing a biography of a living ex-ballplayer who would not let her interview him.  Sandy Koufax is famous for many things including: (1) pitching ability -- including one of the best 4-5 year stretches in baseball history; (2) retirement at a young age [30] to prevent additional damage to his already debilitated arm, which led to induction in the Hall of Fame at 35 (the youngest inductee ever); (3) his refusal to pitch game 1 of the 1965 World Series because it took place on Yom Kippur; (4) winning game 7 of the '65 Series in a three-hit shutout on two days' rest with only his fastball; (5) his reputation as the sporting world's reclusive equivalent of Greta Garbo or J.D. Salinger.<BR>Leavy approached this book the right way -- she did a great deal of research, interviewed his former teammates and contemporaries, interviewed the players who have met and learned from him since his retirement and researched his background.  Moreover, this is not a straight biography because Koufax is so intensely private despite his larger place in baseball history -- a Jewish icon, a superstar who struggled for the first 6-7 years of his career, a minority white who helped bridge the racial divide in the first decade-plus after baseball's racial integration, a reluctant labor leader who held out for more money during the players-as-chattel era when players were bound to their teams and could not become free agents.  Leavy is able to show Koufax's integrity, professionalism, work ethic and honesty through the numerous Koufax contemporaries she interviewed.<BR>Leavy's work is highly readable and innovatively structured: the chapters detailing Koufax's life are separated by three-four page interlude chapters recalling, inning-by-inning, Koufax's perfect game against the Cubs in 1965 (his 4th no-hitter and the 4th-straight season in which he pitched a no-hitter).  Leavy is a sportswriter and some of the stylistic quirks in her writing are annoying, butinconsequential (quote attribution can be confusing, sliding from direct quotes to non-quoted vernacular) traits that many sportswriters have.  She also soft-pedals the anti-Semitism of Walter Alston, Koufax's manager, that both ESPN's and Sports Illustrated's Koufax retrospectives detailed.<BR>All told, this is a fine book that places Koufax in perspective of his sports era, his religion, and the culture of the country as baseball expanded during the transition from the 1950s to the 1960s.	2003-11-22
US	52052616	R4UYZYINB4CKW	0441006159	45282071	The Book of Jhereg	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Jhereg = great, Yendi = good, Teckla = glum	This volume contains the second, third and fourth books (chronological order in the series, not publishing date) in the continuing series of Vladimir Taltos adventures by Steven Brust. Taltos is all of the following: a sometime assassin, mobster, witch, philosopher, swordsman, noble, and detective who lives a stranger-in-a-strange-land scenario as what we would consider a normal human in a nation of 6.5 or 7-foot tall humanoids (Draegerans) who often have numerous magical abilities. The books, other than &quot;Taltos&quot; are named for the houses of the 16 noble classes and one peasant class in the society Taltos lives in. Here are the books in chronological order, not publishing order, with the books in the &quot;Jhereg&quot; compendium in CAPS:<br />Taltos 4.5* -- Brust's funniest of the series, loaded with deadpan humor. This is a simple tale that establishes the beginnings of Taltos' relationships with many of the recurring characters of the other books. Well-paced, good resolution of the three plotlines<br />YENDI 4* -- complex and satisfying for a short book with a lot of strange twists.  This is a rare book in any field because the lead character in a first person book dies and lives to tell about it.  Fairly humorous but less so than Taltos and Jhereg.<br />JHEREG 5* -- the first-published and best of the bunch, gives useful background, especially of how Vlad found his first Dragaeran friend and performed the witchcraft spell that netted him a familiar.  This is the real starting point of the series.  By this point, Vlad has become more established in his little mob-capo niche but that position is threatened by the Jhereg House bosses and he has to work his way out of being a target for the hit squads.<br />TECKLA 2* -- maudlin and introspective without much context or reason for the tone.  In this installment, Vlad's wife becomes part of a peasant rebellion and marital strife ensues.  The ending isn't happy, nor satisfying (and those can be mutually exclusive).<br />Dragon 4* -- published 8th, returns to form of witty banter, smart introspection and twisty plotting of earlier books.  Takes place between Teckla and Phoenix, I think, but timeline is unclear.<br />Phoenix 4* -- picks up the pace after Teckla and re-establishes some of Taltos' business arrangements (he's an assassin and a small-time mob capo), has a complex and twisting plotline and has more of the humor of the first three books. Nonetheless, it still has some of the pall from the Teckla woven throughout the story.<br />Athyra 1* -- meandering and depressing; only book not told from Vlad Taltos' first-person point of view, actionless and largely themeless<br />Orca 4* -- better plotting and pacing for this Athyra follow-up, plus intricate mob-financing issues explored by Taltos in unmasking Orca-house mob syndicate<br />Issola 4* -- Newest entry is a philosophical stemwinder about the history of Vlad-world and the purposes of the g*ds. Therefore, Issola is not the place to start but it is a solid addition to the series if you've read some of the others. <br />Overall the Jhereg 3-in-1 is a good place to start, but you should think about getting it with the Taltos 2-in-1 compendium (Taltos &amp; Phoenix) because the five stories together have a continuous narrative arc.	2003-11-13
US	52052616	R2XFHJE0LB988X	0441008941	803817542	The Book of Taltos (Jhereg)	Books	4	80	83	N	N	Two good entries in the series	This volume contains the first and fifth books (chronological order in the series, not publishing date) in the continuing series of Vladimir Taltos adventures by Steven Brust. Taltos is all of the following: a sometime assassin, mobster, witch, philosopher, swordsman, noble, and detective who lives a stranger-in-a-strange-land scenario as what we would consider a normal human in a nation of 6.5 or 7-foot tall humanoids (Draegerans) who often have numerous magical abilities. The books, other than &quot;Taltos&quot; are named for the houses of the 16 noble classes and one peasant class in the society Taltos lives in. Here are the books in chronological order, not publishing order, with the books in the &quot;Taltos&quot; compendium in CAPS:<br />TALTOS 4.5* -- Brust's funniest of the series, loaded with deadpan humor.  This is a simple tale that establishes the beginnings of Taltos' relationships with many of the recurring characters of the other books.  In regular paperback form it's 180 pages and you can read it in a few hours.  Well-paced, good resolution of the three plotlines<br />Yendi 4* -- complex and satisfying for a short book, humorous<br />Jhereg 5* -- the first-published and best of the bunch, gives useful background and is the real starting point of the series<br />Teckla 2* -- maudlin and introspective without much context or reason for the tone<br />PHOENIX 4* -- picks up the pace after Teckla and re-establishes some of Taltos' business arrangements (he's an assassin and a small-time mob capo), has a complex and twisting plotline and has more of the humor of the first three books.  Nonetheless, it still has some of the pall from the Teckla woven throughout the story.<br />Dragon 4* -- published 8th, returns to form of witty banter, smart introspection and twisty plotting of earlier books<br />Athyra 1* -- meandering and depressing; only book not told from Vlad Taltos' first-person point of view, actionless and largely themeless<br />Orca 4* -- better plotting and pacing for this Athyra follow-up, plus intricate mob-financing issues explored by Taltos in unmasking Orca-house mob syndicate<br />Issola 4* -- Newest entry is a philosophical stemwinder about the history of Vlad-world and the purposes of the g*ds.  Therefore, Issola is not the place to start but it is a solid addition to the series if you've read some of the others. <br />Overall the Taltos 2-in-1 is a good place to start, but you should think about getting it with the Jhereg 3-in-1 compendium (Jhereg, Yendi &amp; Teckla) because the five stories together have a continuous narrative arc and Phoenix will make much less sense if you haven't read the three Jhereg-compendium novels.	2003-11-11
US	52052616	RH1MMHKSKLFJN	0375759999	676495450	Dark Star: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Excellent, vivid period piece	Dark Star is a great novel, spy/espionage tale and period piece.  It is not a chills-spills-adventure thriller (no Furst spy novel is).  But it is Furst's most powerful novel.<br />The hero is a Furst standard: middle-aged Eastern European World War I veteran in the 1930s who is not a spy by trade (this is true for 5 of his 7 books based in the 1930s).  In this case, Andre Szara is a Russian writer for Pravda, and veteran of World War I and the Russian Revolution, who does \\"favors\\" for the Soviet intelligence service, the NKVD (the KGB's precursor), when necessary.  But Szara becomes unwittingly entangled in a plot by members of the NKVD to overthrow Stalin and end the Stalin purges of the late 1930s (which were run through the Soviet Secret Police, the OGPU), and ends up as a target of the Secret Police.  Szara is essentially rescued by an NKVD insider and turned into an agent-handler.  He becomes a spymaster in Paris who is trying to develop and then manage a German \\"asset\\" who may be a double agent.  The rest of the novel is the pawn's-eye view of a power play between German and Russian intelligence organizations.<br />This novel has numerous twists and turns -- who is working for whom, is the German asset feeding false information to the Soviets, who is trying to undermine Stalin or Hitler or both, will Szara continue to find his way out of trouble or will the OGPU claim him as yet another victim of the purges?<br />Adding to the novel's considerable depth is Szara himself.  He is a stranger-in-a-strange land archetype four times over: a Pole who emigrated to Russia to fight in the October Revolution believing in the Communist dream; a Pravda \\"reporter\\" who is a non-Stalinist in Stalin-controlled Russia; a Russian citizen accustomed to government-enforced deprivation living in decadent 1930s Paris; and a Jew whose duties force him to spend copious amounts of time in Hitler's Berlin, including during Kristallnacht (Szara's activities during Kristallnacht are a scene that is among the best of Furst's writing in realistically depicting Germany under Hitler's sway).  This is a gloomier book than some of Furst's others (Kingdom of Shadows, Blood of Victory) but the subject matter is handled brilliantly.  It's a dark picture and Furst paints it well as always.scene that is among the best of Furst's writing in realistically depicting Germany under Hitler's sway).  This is a gloomier book than some of Furst's others (Kingdom of Shadows, Blood of Victory) but the subject matter is handled brilliantly.  It's a dark picture and Furst paints it well as always.	2003-09-04
US	52052616	R1K8QBYT8VGBJU	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Hazards of Peace	This is a different fantasy adventure from the usual Tolkien rip-offs that fail to break any new ground in the genre.  Written by a conscientious objector to the Vietnam conflict in 1977, only two years after the fall of Saigon, Donaldson's world is very different from the innumerable fantasy series that followed.  How different?<br />First, the hero -- a self-pitying wretch who has sunk into the depths of despair after contracting leprosy and cast out as a pariah from the small town that had previously lauded him as a great citizen when he had been a famous author.  Thomas Covenant believes Donaldson's fantasy world, The Land, is a dream and only begins to awaken after raping the woman who rescued him and (temporarily) cured his leprosy.  Covenant is unable to control his previously suppressed emotions once he regains physical feeling (losing the physical numbness that was symptomatic of his leprosy) and only becomes somewhat sympathetic as he comes to accept that he can feel -- in all its meanings.<br />Second, The Land.  Portrayed as almost a living thing with people as gardeners and tenders of all that grows and forms therein.  The Land, west of Lord Foul's domains, is a type of Eden where the people can sing to the wood and stone to receive its bounties -- in large degree the anthropomorphization of the environmentalist ideal.<br />Third, the Oath of Peace.  This is the most important theme of this book that few other reviewers have touched upon -- the pacifism and unpreparedness of the Land's inhabitants for the destruction that would follow.  The Land knew peace because the sparsely settled human communities did not make war on each other and the world's nastier creatures slinked around in their own areas and did not interact.  The Land is unable to respond to the unification of the cavewights and ur-viles (the nasty buggers) by Drool Rockworm without Covenant's help because the people of the Land lost the ability to conceive of and define evil.  Thus, Donaldson's lesson that a loss of such vigilance should never occur because unknown evils may always arise.  <br />This is the set-up book for the series and can be quite slow at times.  The rewards are at the end as Covenant begins to display some honor and concern about the world around him, which is much bigger than the world inside that has eaten away at his humanity, and some sharp action sequences.  Books two and three are stronger, but this is a solid start to a fantasy series with intellectual dimensions, gritty and tragic war sequences and some tremendous feats of heroism undertaken FOR the hero, not by him.	2003-08-04
US	52052616	R1TV8NIWNATEVZ	0441010105	623769353	The Book of Athyra (Jhereg)	Books	2	15	17	N	N	Weaker entries	This volume contains the seventh and eighth books (chronological order in the series, not publishing date) in the continuing series of Vladimir Taltos adventures by Steven Brust. Taltos is all of the following: a sometime assassin, mobster, witch, philosopher, swordsman, noble, and detective who lives a stranger-in-a-strange-land scenario as what we would consider a normal human in a nation of 6.5 or 7-foot tall humanoids (Draegerans) who often have numerous magical abilities. The books, other than \\"Taltos\\" are named for the houses of the 16 noble classes and one peasant class in the society Taltos lives in.  Here are the books in chronological order, not publishing order, with the books in the \\"Athyra\\" compendium in CAPS:    Taltos 4.5* -- Brust's funniest of the series, loaded with deadpan humor. This is a simple tale that establishes the beginnings of Taltos' relationships with many of the recurring characters of the other books. In regular paperback form it's 180 pages and you can read it in a few hours. Well-paced, good resolution of the three plotlines    Yendi 4* -- complex and satisfying for a short book, humorous    Jhereg 5* -- the first-published and best of the bunch, gives useful background and is the real starting point of the series    Teckla 2* -- maudlin and introspective without much context or reason for the tone    Phoenix 4* -- picks up the pace after Teckla and re-establishes some of Taltos' business arrangements (he's an assassin and a small-time mob capo), has a complex and twisting plotline and has more of the humor of the first three books. Nonetheless, it still has some of the pall from the Teckla woven throughout the story.    Dragon 4* -- published 8th, returns to form of witty banter, smart introspection and twisty plotting of earlier books    ATHYRA 1* -- meandering and depressing; only book not told from Vlad Taltos' first-person point of view, actionless and largely themeless    ORCA 4* -- better plotting and pacing for this Athyra follow-up, plus intricate mob-financing issues explored by Taltos in unmasking Orca-house mob syndicate    Issola 4* -- Newest entry is a philosophical stemwinder about the history of Vlad-world and the purposes of the g*ds. Therefore, Issola is not the place to start but it is a solid addition to the series if you've read some of the others.     All said, two of the weaker entries (Orca ranks seventh of the nine books) in the Vlad Taltos series are compiled in the Book of Athyra.  Athyra itself is dour, boring, and unquestionably the worst of the lot (most of which, in contrast, are good to near excellent).  Athyra is the only one not told from Vlad Taltos' first-person perspective, is one of the longer books in the series, and has neither the humor nor adventure that characterize the other eight.  Brust is an experimenter as a writer -- a praiseworthy concept -- but Athyra essentially goes awry.    Orca is not overly memorable, but at least it is within the expectations of the rest of the books -- some swashbuckling, wise-acre humor, twisted plot and solid resolution.  Buy it separately and skip Athyra altogether and you really don't miss anything.	2003-06-05
US	52052616	R3IMIZ4RJZ68SA	0553813110	63115515	Deadhouse Gates : A Tale of Malazan Book of the Fallen	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Tangible grit, raw narrative	It is actually a tribute to Steven Erikson's writing that this book is so hard to plow through.  This is because his vivid descriptions of the central heroic event of the novel -- a retreat from a conquering army that is akin to Mao's Long March (although it's the potential &quot;good guys&quot; who are retreating, not a future oppressor of 1/2 of Asia) -- is so realistic.  The retreating army's despair, desperation, resignation, determination, heroism, intelligence, brutality (and those of its enemy) are palpable to the point that it is hard to continue reading of the dire straits of the heroes.<br />Deadhouse Gates also has three or more other story threads that are largely separate from Gardens of the Moon (book 1 of the Malazan Empire series), and is essentially a stand-alone novel.  Nonetheless, Deadhouse Gates fits squarely within the overarching narrative that connects all the books in the series (and which becomes more apparent in Memories of Ice, book 3 of the series).  It contains the story elements that have launched Erikson's career -- gritty stories of heroism and villainy, vivid action, intriguing cultural elements, unquestioned originality (especially in comparison to 95% of the fantasy fiction available) and the feel that the world he created is starting toward a gargantuan eruption with innumerable initial tremors.<br />These books are hard to procure in the US because Erikson does not have a US publisher yet.  Also -- the whole Malazan Cycle is projected at 10 books total, but Erikson writes relatively fast (one book/year).  Nonetheless, they're worth the time and effort to procure and read.  Recommended.	2003-04-23
US	52052616	R2M4CP18EE6BCY	0812589173	353210303	Issola (Vlad)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interesting stem-winder; solid addition to the series	This is the ninth book in the continuing series of Vladimir Taltos adventures by Steven Brust.  Taltos is all of the following: a sometime assassin, mobster, witch, philosopher, swordsman, noble, and detective who lives a stranger-in-a-strange-land scenario as what we would consider a normal human in a nation of 6.5 or 7-foot tall humanoids (Draegerans) who often have numerous magical abilities.  The other books, other than \\"Taltos\\" are named for the houses of the 16 noble classes and one peasant class in the society Taltos lives in.  The books(in chronological order, not publishing order) are:<br />Taltos 4.5* -- very funny, well-paced, good resolution of the three plotlines<br />Yendi 4* -- complex and satisfying for a short book, humorous<br />Jhereg 5* -- the first and best of the bunch, gives useful background and is the real starting point of the series<br />Teckla 2* -- maudlin and introspective without much context or reason for the tone<br />Phoenix 4* -- picks up the pace after Teckla, but not quite as light-hearted as the earlier books<br />Dragon 4* -- published 8th, returns to form of witty banter, smart introspection and twisty plotting of earlier books<br />Athyra 1* -- meandering and depressing; only book not told from Vlad Taltos' point of view, actionless and largely themeless<br />Orca 4* -- better plotting and pacing for this Athyra follow-up, plus intricate mob-financing issues explored by Taltos in unmasking Orca-house mob syndicate<br />Therefore, Issola is not the place to start. The story in Issola is relatively simple (at the start) -- Taltos' friends (and benefactors) have been captured by the Jenoine, semi-mythical creators of the world. His task is to rescue them; then he learns of the plots and counterplots that the Jenoine have hatched in their desire to seize control of the world from the gods (who had previously been their servants).<br />Issola features a number of the tell-tale signs of the Taltos series that are welcome comforts for the converted: Vlad's humorous introspections, snappy dialogue, intriguing plotline and the sardonic world view Brust puts forth. This volume contains a lot of extended philosophical meandering (mild negative) but also interesting background information regarding the creation of the \\"world,\\" the myths of the gods, the genesis of the humans and Draegerans, and the history of Morrolan, the noble wizard who is one of Taltos' main benefactors. Most satisfying is the interplay between Taltos and Lady Teldra -- Morrolan's chamberlain who is a recurring and unexplored character in the rest of the series. Most shocking are the events near the end that change the landscape of the series for the future. <br />Recommended for fans, recommended for non-fans after they get some of the background from previous books.	2003-03-10
US	52052616	R3SIAULX641OB2	0553812173	599137545	Gardens of the Moon	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Start swimming once you're in the pool	Erikson gives you no time to get your bearings in this book -- it starts with a short prologue of background and then the main story starts up in the middle of a decades-long conflict played out both in the mortal realm and among the various deities (Ascendants). This series logs the lives of Erikson's characters, and those affected by them, during the various wars of the Malazan empire -- thus the \\"Book of the Fallen\\" concept that is essentially a Black Company-like annals of the people who die, are killed, are raised to divinity or lowered to squalor in the wars of Malazan. <br />Erikson is straightforward in his writing, not much excess wordiness, because there is a lot of story he is trying to tell, and he is working on a broader, more far-reaching story than any author of the serial fantasy genre. Nonetheless, despite the huge storyline, Erikson peoples his story with memorable characters who are noble, ignoble, interesting and demonic, and often all those qualities together. The forces of \\"Dark\\" and \\"Light\\" are, however, not delineated because no \\"side\\" is clearly defined. <br />This series is work (and not just in obtaining copies of the books, which do not have a US publisher but do have UK and Canada publishers). Each volume is more than 700 pages and filled with graphic details of the horrors of supernatural war, difficulties of superhuman effort, the evil of complete betrayal and (especially in Deadhouse Gates, volume 2) the enormity of heroic sacrifice. Gardens of the Moon is therefore \\"thicker\\" than its 700+ pages. Nonetheless, it is very interesting, well-written and highly imaginative. A fine addition to the genre.	2003-02-18
US	52052616	RZYGGA55JD7KX	0395595118	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Beautiful = the Alan Lee edition	This is a review of the Centennial Edition released around 1992 for the 100th anniversary of Tolkien's birth (Tolkien lived from 1892-1973). The Centennial Edition is devoid of the movie art, photo stills or any similar tie-ins to Peter Jackson's production of The Lord of the Rings movies.  The book itself (or books, if you read it as a trilogy) is a classic and doing justice to it in a review of less than 1000 words is nearly impossible.<br />This single-volume hardcover is commonly referred to as the Alan Lee Edition. Lee contributed about 50 watercolor plates for the book and they range from solid (the Old Forest, Treebeard) to spectacular (Dawn over Minas Tirith, Helm's Deep, Orthanc, The Black Gate) and, altogether, render Tolkien's world realistically while simultaneously (through the medium of watercolor with its muted colors, soft lines and blended images) maintaining the mystical qualities of Middle Earth.  Lee is probably the most accomplished of the Tolkien artists (John Howe, Ted Nasmith, the Hildebrants, et al.) and his paintings of the Morannon (the gate of Mordor) and Helm's Deep are famous images of Tolkien's world.  The print quality of this edition is a larger and clearer version of the text used in the mass-market paperback editions from the 1970s and 1980s. The maps are only ok, and that's the sole problem with the edition.<br />Alan Lee (along with John Howe) was one of the artistic consultants for the Peter Jackson films.  His artwork is therefore a basis for the \\"look\\" of many of the films key sequences.  This edition provides a fine one-volume compilation of The Lord of the Rings, replete with the art gallery of the most influential of the Tolkien artists.  Highly recommended.	2003-01-04
US	52052616	R2MZ5T8REHFLNF	0553381687	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Setting The High Standard	A Game Of Thrones is a masterpiece. Martin weaves politics, intrigue, betrayal, legend, magic and mysticism in the most adult fantasy of the numerous \\"doorstoppers\\" that have been written in the last decade (Wheel of Time, Sword of Truth, Shannara legacy, The Pearl).<br />Martin's techniques and themes stand out. Most notable is the shifting perspectives -- each chapter is told through the view of one main viewpoint character and shows how he or she perceives the events s/he is involved in; and Martin uses interesting viewpoint characters including children and anti-heroes.  Also notable is that this is a more realistic -- A Game of Thrones (and this is more true for its sequels) can be decidedly raw in descriptions of intimate situations, coarse in its language, and bloody in its battle scenes, and all of it is gripping drama. Martin also is realistic in how he treats his characters, their motivations, their emotions (especially their petty jealousies) and their rationales. Martin is unflinchingly unsentimental, so getting attached to too many characters is ill-advised.  Moreover, the settings, social interactions, and the different societies are all rendered with tremendous detail.<br />The rewards in this series are numerous -- intricate plotting, exquisite narration, realistic characters, and descriptions that make his world palpable. The main drawback is time: Martin writes relatively slowly and a two-year wait between volumes is now routine (volume 3 was released in the UK in September 2000 and in the US in November 2000; volume 4 will be released in April 2003), therefore the series will not be finished until at least 2007 if the 6-book framework remains in place (originally he wanted this to be a trilogy). Therefore, know what you're getting into and know that once you dive in, you'll enjoy.	2002-12-11
US	52052616	R30GWSMZOXAUSJ	0375505741	867162441	Blood of Victory: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Noir grit in the Shadow of World War II	Ordinary people doing extraordinary things in the face of world-changing events and under the shadow of Nazi domination of Europe. If you like that set-up, then Blood of Victory is a book you would enjoy. The writing is spare but evocative, the setting highly intense and the espionage is engaging. <br />The hero Serezin is an author and Soviet ex-patriate who is recruited by a sybaritic Hungarian ex-spymaster, now working in conjunction with MI6, to sabotage the Romania to Germany oil export route up the Danube River.  Unlike some of his other books, Blood of Victory is a single novel with one overarching plot and not a pseudo-anthology of episodic novellas.<br />Furst's writing and settings have been described as historical noir novels. This is pretty accurate -- the scenes flit by, the tone is dark, the concepts are interesting, the day-to-day is gritty, and despair gnaws at the back of each character's mind.  Furst's strength is his ability to swiftly convey the moods of the various peoples of Eastern Europe as their countries fell (or began to fall) under Nazi domination. Good stuff for those interested in fiction displaying the mood of Europe during the darkness of WWII.	2002-12-09
US	52052616	R3MKVM0DVTXN0B	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	5	463	501	N	N	A Tremendous Start, But Beware	The Wheel of Time is probably the best-known and most widely read fantasy series other than The Lord of the Rings. <BR>When this book was published in 1988 or 1989, it created a sensation -- a tremendous first volume that had the usual good-evil battle and tons of action but also was filled with magic, history, politics, sociology, cultural background and realistic characters. When I re-read the first five books, I was amazed at the details of history and politics that Jordan provided in his world. Jordan also has numerous protagonists, not just one or two primary ones like many other fantasy writers.<br />Moreover, Eye of the World features strong men and, through their magical abilities and powerful personalities, stronger women. Jordan has been rightly lauded for the prominent and powerful roles he created for the female characters.<br />The Great Hunt, The Dragon Reborn, The Shadow Rising and The Fires of Heaven followed and created a tremendous series such that The New York Times noted that Jordan had come to dominate the genre that Tolkien made famous. <br />In Eye of the World, the writing is smooth, the various characters and their motivations work well, and there's action aplenty. The sense of innocence and mystery that correspond to the heroes' relative lack of knowledge of their surroundings and the world at large is palpable and realistic.<br />Unfortunately, starting with Lord of Chaos (book 6), Jordan's creation became unwieldy. Instead of concentrating on following the themes and story-threads of books 1-5 (which combined are more than 3500 pages, hardcover), he created new storylines, bogged down the narrative and halted the pace of the epic. Book 8 in particular is an unmitigated disaster -- 650 pages (hardcover) of wheel-spinning (pardon the pun) with almost no progress to the story. Book 9 began to jump-start the narrative once again.<br />The series is at 10 books (the tenth will be published in about two months from now) and growing (13 total possible -- it's a common numerical theme in the books), thus the last volume will be published in 2006, at the earliest. <br />The Eye of the World is great, as are the next four in the series. They are, however, addictive, so know what you're getting into.	2002-11-08
US	52052616	R1ECXG4GZ36ZNA	0812550307	638271918	The Fires of Heaven (The Wheel of Time, Book 5)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	War, Magic, and Turning Points	The Wheel of Time is probably the best-known and most widely read fantasy series other than The Lord of the Rings. <BR>When book one (The Eye of The World) was published in 1988 or 1989, it created a sensation -- a tremendous first volume that had the usual good-evil battle and tons of action but also was filled with magic, history, politics, sociology, cultural background and realistic characters. <br />When I re-read the first five books, I was amazed at the details of history and politics that Jordan provided in his world. Jordan also has numerous protagonists, not just one or two primary ones like many other fantasy writers.  Moreover, the series features strong men and, through their magical abilities and powerful personalities, stronger women. Jordan has been rightly lauded for the prominent and powerful roles he created for the female characters.<br />The Great Hunt, The Dragon Reborn, The Shadow Rising and The Fires of Heaven followed and created a tremendous series such that The New York Times noted that Jordan had come to dominate the genre that Tolkien made famous. <br />The Fires of Heaven is the most action-packed book of the series, with few dull moments and an explosive ending. The various protagonists continue their development, especially Mat (as a war commander) and Egwene. Rand continues to be pulled in many directions, but needs some help from his allies to survive. <br />Nonetheless, this book is NOT a preview of things to come -- The Fires of Heaven's plot twists near the end (especially the most important one that would be a HUGE spoiler) are barely examined in books 6-9.<br />Unfortunately, starting with Lord of Chaos (book 6), Jordan's creation became unwieldy. Instead of concentrating on following the themes and story-threads of books 1-5 (which combined are more than 3500 pages, hardcover), he created new storylines, bogged down the narrative and halted the pace of the epic. Book 8 in particular is an unmitigated disaster -- 650 pages (hardcover) with almost no progress to the story. Book 9 began to jump-start the narrative once again.<br />The series is at 10 books (the tenth will be published in January 2003) and growing (13 total possible -- it's a common numerical theme in the books), thus the last volume will be published in 2006, at the earliest. <br />Other than the final chapters of Lord of Chaos (book 6), this is the last of the good WoT books published to date. The Fires of Heaven is the blood-and-guts installment -- it has the highest body count, much war, scheming, conquest, hunting the evildoers, a couple of surprises and a fiery finish (hence the name).  By the time you read this volume, you will most likely be addicted to the series as a whole; but if you hadn't made it this far, be forewarned that the pace, storyline, action and development slow down considerably in books 6-8.	2002-10-21
US	52052616	R1GXGG5Z52RJQ0	0812513738	968535658	The Shadow Rising (The Wheel of Time, Book 4)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Outstanding entry in this series	The Wheel of Time is probably the best-known and most widely read fantasy series other than The Lord of the Rings. <br />When The Eye of The World was published in 1988 or 1989, it created a sensation -- a tremendous first volume that had the usual good-evil battle and tons of action but also was filled with magic, history, politics, sociology, cultural background and realistic characters. When I re-read the first five books, I was amazed at the details of history and politics that Jordan provided in his world. Jordan also has numerous protagonists, not just one or two primary ones like many other fantasy writers.<br />The Shadow Rising continues to feature strong men and, through their magical abilities and powerful personalities, stronger women characters that are a constant feature of the first three books. Jordan has been rightly lauded for the prominent and powerful roles he created for the female characters.<br />The Shadow Rising's overall excellence is part of the reason the first five books in this series became the dominant entry in the fantasy genre by the mid-1990s -- so much so that The New York Times noted that Jordan had come to dominate the genre that Tolkien made famous. In The Shadow Rising, the writing is still smooth, the various characters and their motivations work well, and there's action aplenty. Jordan also produces some outstanding imagery and action and history in the middle portions of the book (concerning the history of the Aiel) that provide tremendous background to the series as a whole. <br />Unfortunately, starting with Lord of Chaos (book 6), Jordan's creation became unwieldy. Instead of concentrating on following the themes and story-threads of books 1-5 (which combined are more than 3500 pages, hardcover), he created new storylines, bogged down the narrative and halted the pace of the epic. Book 8 in particular is an unmitigated disaster -- 650 pages (hardcover) of wheel-spinning (pardon the pun) with almost no progress to the story. Book 9 seemed to have jump-started the narrative once again but reviewers have generally panned book 10; there are likely at least 3 more volumes forthcoming and the series will not be completed until at least 2007.<br />The Shadow Rising is great, as were the previous three and The Fires of Heaven (book five).  But narrative stalling and the increasing time intervals between the publication dates of each volume have made the series more frustration than fun.	2002-09-30
US	52052616	R1BZ5SG8F72ZWK	0375758275	894188613	The Polish Officer: A Novel	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Period Piece = Palpable	Alan Furst's series of novels set in 1933-1941 Europe are fantastic on a number of levels: the noir tone of the book, the palpable dread that overlays the whole time period, the complex relationships among people of various nationalities in a highly fragmented continent.<br />The Polish Officer begins very ambitiously as the protagonist seeks to smuggle Poland's gold supply out of the country in September 1939; the daring exploits result from desperation, necessity, despair, honor, patriotism.  The settings are well-drawn and the politics well-researched.  <br />This is a period piece.  Furst brings you to the time and place of the action with his writing.  It is honest, gritty, and real.  The book is not a single narrative, it is episodic -- like intertwined short stories or novellas.  Thus the intensity can wax and wane.  Nonetheless, if you are interested in the 1933-1941 time frame, espionage, Eastern Europeans under the shadow of war or all of the above, this is fine literature and highly recommended.	2002-09-17
US	52052616	R3T2NDUHXBKKJE	0375758267	45103098	Kingdom of Shadows	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Highly intriguing	Ordinary people doing extraordinary things in the face of world-changing events.  If you like that set-up, then Kingdom of Shadows is a book you would enjoy.  The writing is spare but evocative, the setting highly intense and the espionage is engaging.    <br />The hero Nicholas Morath tries to live the \\"normal\\" life of a successful advertising executive in Paris under the shadow of the impending World War II.  At the same time, he does favors for his uncle, a Hungarian spymaster, in a vain effort to thwart Nazi designs, maintain Hungarian independence and slow Hitler's inexorable march toward conquering southeastern Europe.  <br />Furst's writing and settings have been described as historical noir novels.  This is pretty accurate -- the scenes flit by, the tone is dark, the concepts are interesting, the day-to-day is gritty, and despair gnaws at the back of each character's mind.  Good stuff for those interested in fiction displaying the mood of Europe during the coming of the darkness before WWII.  I look forward to reading the others I have -- Polish Officer, Dark Star -- and to the upcoming-release Blood of Victory.	2002-08-08
US	52052616	R1HGS3VHMC55OI	0812513711	820960971	The Dragon Reborn (The Wheel of Time, Book 3)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Good resolution	Book Three of the growing Wheel of Time series has the most interesting ending of the first three books and develops Mat, Perrin and Nynaeve to the point that their individuality is fully realized by getting inside their heads, instead of just reflected by the other characters' reactions to them. <br />As the book starts, Mat is in Tar Valon for healing and rest, Perrin is with Moiraine chasing Rand across the continent as they try to discern what his plans are. In the end, Rand, Perrin, Nynaeve-Egwene-Elaine, and Mat all end up in Tear where Rand declares his true identity through his deeds and finds some new allies.<br />Unlike later books that give short shrift to major characters, The Dragon Reborn maintains a good balance among the three major story threads: the Accepteds traveling cross-country, the chase after Rand, and the wanderings by Mat.  Rand's development is seen through the eyes of his allies more than through his own viewpoint. Because Rand is determined now to drive events, instead of having events determine his actions, this technique works in The Dragon Reborn.<br />Given the story arc in books 1-3, this would have been a good demarcation of the first 1/3 of the story -- namely, how Rand discovered, abhorred and then began to accept his destiny. Books 4 and 5 detail how Rand fulfills still more prophecies and how he begins to establish hegemony over the Eastern parts of \\"Randland\\". Unfortunately, books 6-9 get bogged down in ancillary matters and lose focus (especially book 8) -- so be forewarned about what you may be getting into.	2002-04-16
US	52052616	RH76QIBN0W4PB	0812517725	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Very good second chapter	The Wheel of Time is probably the best-known and most widely read fantasy series other than The Lord of the Rings. There are many reasons for that:<br />(1) Books 1-5 of the series are non-stop action, adventure, intrigue, politics, magic, war, history and mystery wrapped together.<br />(2) Jordan creates believeable and often multifaceted characters.<br />(3) Attention to detail: from the various cultural traits of the 13 &quot;nations&quot; on the map (dubbed &quot;Randland&quot; by fans), to the commercial, political and economic interaction of the various peoples in the books to the characters and objects throughout &quot;Randland&quot;.<br />(4) End-games. Jordan's at his best in the last chapters of books 1-6 and 9 when he writes of the climactic occurrences of each of those installments.<br />The Great Hunt, like The Eye of the World, again exhibits the best of Jordan's writing style and pacing.  That is true also for books 3-5.<br />The Great Hunt picks up where Eye of the World left off and adds new facets to the complex plot: schisms and scheming  among the sorceresses (Aes Sedai), an invasion by descendants of a long-lost conquistador exploration of lands across the ocean, introduction of the hero's jilted love interest, and exploration of more of Randland.  The roles of Rand's various allies and friends are also revealed to a greater degree.<br />Once again, the writing is smooth, the various characters and their motivations work well, and there's action aplenty. The sense of innocence and mystery that corresponded to the heroes' relative lack of knowledge of their surroundings and the world at large in book 1 diminishes appropriately as the heroes are exposed to more of their world and the chaos therein.<br />The series is at 10 books (the tenth will be published late 2002 or so) and growing (13 total possible -- it's a common numerical theme in the books). The quality drops off sharply in books 6-8 before increasing slightly in book 9. You will likelyenjoy the first 5 immensely, but know what you're getting into.	2002-04-15
US	52052616	R2NT8UPK0ZPQU3	0312850093	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	This one's good but BEWARE	The Wheel of Time is probably the best-known and most widely read fantasy series other than The Lord of the Rings.  There are many reasons for that:<br />(1) The Eye of the World and books 2-5 of the series are non-stop action, adventure, intrigue, politics, magic, war, history and mystery wrapped together.<br />(2) Jordan creates believeable and often multifaceted characters.<br />(3) Attention to detail: from the various cultural traits of the 13 &quot;nations&quot; on the map (dubbed &quot;Randland&quot; by fans), to the commercial, political and economic interaction of the various peoples in the books to the characters and objects throughout &quot;Randland&quot;.<br />(4) End-games.  Jordan's at his best in the last chapters of books 1-6 and 9 when he writes of the climactic occurrences of each of those installments.<br />Eye of the World itself has some of the traditional fantasy elements: rural unknown and unworldly hero(es), mysterious magician, trekking out of the halcyon backcountry, world on the brink of war, etc.  The writing is smooth, the various characters and their motivations work well, and there's action aplenty.  The book also has a sense of innocence and mystery that corresponds to the heroes' relative lack of knowledge of their surroundings and the world at large.<br />BEWARE, however, because the series is at 10 books (the tenth will be published late 2002 or so) and growing (13 total possible -- it's a common numerical theme in the books).  The quality drops off sharply in books 6-8 and the cast of characters and various factions seeking power becomes unwieldy (and impossible to remember).  You will likely enjoy the first 5 immensely, but know what you're getting into.	2002-04-10
US	52052616	R22UT306K31RYX	0312872356	54502094	The Ring of Five Dragons (The Pearl)	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Solid stuff	This is book one of a five-book doorstopper series that will probably be 3500 pages total....  Therefore, know what you're getting into.<br />This book has some background easily recognizable to Dune fans: the concubine witch with the heart of gold who births the possible messiah, the reformist (or less evil) conquering governor, the family rivalries, the corrupted magical women's cult that seeks to control events from behind-the-scenes, the indigenous people of the out-of-the-way planet who hold the future of the cosmos in their hands.  Lustbader's addition of high fantasy elements, faster pacing and dearth of (overt) moralizing separate this from Dune in clear ways.  But his source material is easy to discern.<br />That said, this is a good merger of fantasy with science fiction: the characters and their motivations are believable, the action is quick, the dramatis personae is not too extensive, the writing is good, the plotline is coherent, and the pacing is very good for a first book of a multivolume series.  There are numerous twists, some obvious, others not.  Lustbader is a pro and has been writing for decades, he has honed novel-crafting skills, therefore he lets the story evolve so as to maintain interest without swamping you with information and strange arcana.	2002-03-27
US	52052616	R1XZNF6R4PXYTM	0312857691	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Going nowhere slowly	Book 8 of the increasingly unwieldy Wheel of Time series is a waste of time.  First, the book completely ignores some major characters. Second, the plot is at a complete standstill (except for about three chapters in the middle dealing with Egwene). Third, Jordan's long-winded folksiness is now tiresome -- the random details that may enhance a particular scene are now excess verbiage as the series tips the literary scales at more than 6000 pages. Fourth, the characters' individual idiosyncracies are repeated entirely too often; at this point, Nynaeve could either limit her braid-tugging or the author could limit mentioning it. If you are a committed fan (or should be one), then the book is a necessary evil. If not, abandon the series after book 5 or don't get started; the first 4-5 are really good, books 6-8 (other than the conclusion of book 6) are not, book 9 is a bit better than 7 and 8, and given the 2+ year publication gap between books 9 and 10, the projected 13 books may not be done until 2008.	2002-03-20
US	52052616	R24IXA6MWY36QY	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Solid, simple, self-contained	This is a solid, simple fantasy novel with the usual unwitting hero and uber-evil villain.  The twist is the actual connection between the hero and villain.  There are interesting magics, creepy torture, heinous anti-erotica, and minor twists on cultural archetypes (i.e., the beatific native/aboriginal/tribalist).<br />Goodkind has some strong views that come across in his writing.  He obviously believes in good and evil.  He detests communism (and its adjuncts, totalitarianism and state-decreed socialism).  He places high value upon personal integrity and loyalty and has a true sense of self.  <br />This book, and his second book Stone of Tears, are very good.  They are also essentially self-contained, as are all the books in the series.<br />The series goes downhill thereafter, however, as Richard and Kahlan's love descends towards the maudlin, dialogue tends towards excessive explanation (the characters explain their motives to each other a bit too much) and the plotlines fray.	2002-03-20
US	52052616	R1GSYEKNAQYX5X	0671688774	20412244	Season on the Brink	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Extraordinary look at Knight -- it resonates a decade later	I read this book more than 10 years ago and it sticks with me even today.  This is a masterpiece that shows the mind, ethics, mania, honor, despite, loathesomeness, and honesty of Bob Knight.  The same man who screamed at his kids until his face matched his ubiquitous red sweater is the same man who paid for Stew Robinson's final tuition credits (after the scholarship ran out) from his own pocket.  The same coach who is mournful or enraged or both after a loss was preternaturally calm after his '86-87 team won the NCAA title stressing how great it was for the kids.<br />The dichotomies of Knight are fascinating, and occasionally frightening.  I was a Knight-hater before I read the book.  I don't hate him, nor would I pretend to understand him.  His self-view is highly nuanced and the depiction Feinstein gives reflects the complexities and contradictions of Knight, his program and the pressures of college basketball.  <br />This book is outstanding because of how much Feinstein reveals, perceives and transmits to the reader.	2002-03-09
US	52052616	R3NHK6HYHA5VYZ	0345321383	932766552	Bridge of Birds: A Novel of an Ancient China That Never Was	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Completely Charming	This book is a pure treat.  From the innocent, wide-eyed, big-hearted narrative voice of Number Ten Ox, to the creative problem-solving of Master Li, this novel charms the reader from beginning to end.  Although billed as a novel of &quot;an ancient China that never was&quot; Hughart did excellent research in creating the world through which Ox and Master Li travel.  This is a great romp, with a serious background theme (the imperiling of the narrator's village), and a climactic revelation that adds to the moving sweep of the story.  Enter the novel as Ox begins his story without knowing what will unfold and let him guide you through the tale -- you won't be disappointed.	2001-01-05
US	52052616	R25DZ9BCGLQLMZ	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	More than Outstanding	Martin has returned to the heights he reached in A Game of Thrones with this tremendous work.  This book has greater emotional depth (exploring the perversions and impulses of Jaime Lannister and his family), character development (Tyrion and Jon especially) and momentous events than virtually any other mid-series volume in print.  The action in the second half is tremendous, while the description of the bleak torn lands of Westeros is vivid throughout the novel.  <br />Martin is not averse to killing off (literally) major characters.  In a Storm of Swords, many major players meet their demise and others meet a different doom. Be prepared for the cliff-hanger ending that sets up the last 3 books in the series.  That said, this series is on its way to eclipsing every fantasy series (except Tolkien, of course) in terms of scope, complexity, skill, intrigue and readability.	2001-01-03
US	52052616	R1H4C0N3R0UV3	0451457765	446908784	Tigana: Anniversary Edition	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The first and best of Kay's historical fantasy novels -- 4.5 stars	In 1990, Kay published the first novel in a self-created genre -- historical fantasy.  Tigana (Italy), A Song for Arbonne (France), The Lions of Al-Rassan (Spain), the Sarantine Mosaic (Byzantium) and The Last Light of the Sun (British Isles) are all based on specific periods in each of the real nation's histories but re-imagined by Kay with elements of magic in a fantasy world and portrayed by a masterful writer.    <br /> <br />Tigana is Kay's masterpiece.  Easily the best of the bunch, with a premise completely unlike any other major fantasy epic.  Drawn loosely from the history of Italy's fractious medieval city-states and the struggles between the Holy Roman Empire and France to control the Italian peninsula, Tigana describes the ambitious struggle of a small band of people whose very heritage has been virtually exterminated because they had the temerity to fight their invader.   <br /> <br />The background is simple: two sorcerers have conquered 1/2 of the Peninsula of the Palm, Alberico of Barbadior and King Brandin of Ygrath.  During Brandin's conquest of the Western half of the Peninsula, his son was killed while leading his army against one provinces, Tigana.  In revenge, Brandin razed the city of Tigana and cast a spell to wipe the name of the province from the memory of everyone on the Peninsula, except the Tiganans themselves, and renamed the province -- thereby destroying its history and identity and leaving the Tiganans the pain of their lost heritage.  <br /> <br />Kay's descriptions bring to life the cities and countrysides his characters roam in their quest to rid their lands of the two tyrants that have split the Peninsula into their respective playpens. Unlike other fantasy authors at the time he wrote Tigana (early 1980s), Kay depicts the ultimate \\"bad guy\\" Brandin as a three-dimensional person whose terrible cruelty derived, in part, from personal loss.  <br /> <br />Kay's writing evokes the deep emotions of the heroes subjected to the crueltyof having their very heritage crushed into powder and the conflict that can arise when a Tiganan concubine falls in love with the one person she should abhor beyond all others. <br /> <br />This work is moving, with Kay's most lyrical prose on display and his most ambitious plotline -- how a small band of \\"musicians\\" attempt to maneuver Brandin and his rival tyrant Alberico into an ultimate battle for the Peninsula of the Palm in the hope that they will destroy each other. Only a disturbing aspect of one relationship between two protagonists who are siblings takes away from the impact of the work as a whole.	2001-01-03
US	52052616	RMEXQ5GMA6IL2	0061020028	269719484	Lord of Emperors (Sarantine Mosaic, Book 2)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Grading on a curve	Guy Kay started his career in the 1970s by helping Christopher Tolkien assemble some of J.R.R. Tolkien's unfinished manuscripts into The Silmarillion.  Since then, Kay wrote an excellent trilogy combining Arthurian legend with standard good-evil fantasy (the Fionavar Tapestry); wrote a fantasy-themed take on Italy's fractious medieval history (Tigana); and wrote historical fantasies based on French history (Song for Arbonne)and the Spanish overthrow of the Moors (Lions of Al-Rassan).<br />The Sarantine Mosaic is essentially an examination of Byzantium under Justinian and Theodora, with the court intrigue, background wonders and fully realized characters that drive every Kay story.<br />The Sarantine Mosaic is basically solid in its own right, and better than most of the fantasy/altered history novels available. Kay is a master of lyrical prose and emotional writing -- his characters are easy to identify with because they are ultimately affected by the same normal human emotions as each other: the noble-born, self-made nobility, heroes, villains and common people alike.  <br />But the Sarantine Mosaic lacks an overall purpose in the narrative.  The plot is just not as well-developed as in Kay's other works: Lions of Al-Rassan (drive the Asharites from Esperana); Song for Arbonne (save the country from its cruel invaders); Tigana (unite the pseudo-Italian city-state fiefdoms against their conquerors and restore a people to their homeland) and Fionavar Tapestry (the basic save-the-world from Evil concept). Instead Sailing to Sarantium is primarily \\"Travels With Crispin\\" (the lead character) and Lord of Emperors is \\"Mild Intrigue in Sarantium.\\"  <br />This is very decent fare, much better than most fantasy and alternate history stories because Kay is such a smooth writer.  Nonetheless, Kay has written better.	2001-01-02
US	52052616	R1497GJYOUXX6K	0812553977	61870513	Jerusalem	Books	4	5	5	N	N	very solid and engaging	Although I am not a frequent reader of historical fiction, I was intrigued by the premise and plot of Jerusalem.  Holland's writing is straightforward and not needlessly complex but yet evokes vivid images of the time, place and people she describes.  Her characterizations are good and her historical accuracy is admirable.  For those who are interested in fantasy or historical fiction dealing with the middle ages, this book is a welcome addition to your library. <br />Regarding the commentary of some other reviewers: (1) the whole point of this book, as with many other historical novels, is to place ordinary fictional characters in contact with the leading figures of that time period and show how such non-historical figures would have been affected by events -- therefore calling this book &quot;unrealistic&quot; for placing common soldiers in close contact with kings and queens misses the point of the writer's plot devices; (2) the anti-Muslim bent some readers may infer is more accurately viewed as the fear and loathing of the crusaders for their enemy -- it is precisely this disdain of the Christians for Muslims that underlay the rationale for the crusades, which were undertaken to drive the Muslims from what the Christians believed was the birthplace of their Savior and therefore the attitudes conveyed by the primary characters are historically accurate.	2000-12-29
US	52052616	R2R5LH95767GXM	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Something will happen, but I said that last time	Winter's Heart is in the same vein as Crown of Swords and Lord of Chaos, a step up from Path of Daggers (a nearly unmitigated disaster), and a far cry from books 1-5.  Once again, little actually happens to move the plot(s) and two major plotlines (both sides of the split Aes Sedai) are not given any significant space.  The relatively uninteresting Perrin-Faile saga (including the basically worthless Sevanna-Shaido plotline) is stretched into 6 overly verbose chapters and the wanderings of Mat through Ebou Dar are similarly overextended.<br />The largest weakness of the last 3-4 books is the lack of time devoted to Rand.  This is alleviated somewhat in Winter's Heart, but the fact remains that he is THE messiah of Jordan's world, thus he should command around 40-50% of the book and much of the character development; the rest of the plotting and coordinating by other characters can be described more succinctly (do we really need to know about rabbits darting around while Egwene rides to a confrontation in Path of Daggers, same type of stuff happens in WH).  Another weakness is the lack of interaction between Perrin and Rand -- arguably the two most important characters in the series considering the prophetic pronouncements regarding how important it was for Rand to keep Perrin nearby (this is only one misuse of Perrin by Jordan, the author could do MUCH more with that character).<br />Jordan has a definite ability to produce great action in short, direct passages and does so in the final chapter.  He also displays good subtlety of language and description.  The contrast between these talents and the obvious padding within the recent books is what makes this series so frustrating to the legions of non-apostolic (yet loyal) fans.  Jordan has much to do in this series, I just hope it's not eight more years (two more years for each of the four books predicted by one reviewer) before this all gets done.	2000-11-30
US	52052616	R30Z8CQNPPEZTC	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Excellent once again -- really a 9.5 out of 10	Martin has again reached the heights he hit with A Game of Thrones.  A Storm of Swords is rife with intrigue and betrayal on a scope that dwarfs any other major medieval/fantasy series.  As usual, there is plenty of action but Martin understands the psychological wounds that fester in people's souls from their early years and which shape people's adult lives.  His main characters have more depth than major characters in any series other than Tolkien or Donaldson.  Even though he paints stark portraits (Roose Bolton, Balon Greyjoy, Walder Frey), those bit-players have subtlety and nuance to their personae.  <br />Most stunningly, Martin is not averse to killing off (literally) major characters.  In a Storm of Swords, many major players meet their demise and others meet a different doom.  Be prepared for the cliff-hanger ending that sets up the last 3 books in the series.<br />This volume was well-worth the expense of buying it from Amazon's UK site.  Thanks to Mr. Martin for winning the battle with his US publisher and keeping Storm of Swords one volume.	2000-10-09
US	52052616	R9DZ1DBOXYL4H	0312857691	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	1	10	12	N	N	Going nowhere fast	The eighth installment of WoT is worse than the weak seventh and horrible in contrast with the initial books.  While the first four books imparted a sense of wonder and had great action, the fifth and sixth books had  momentous events, PoD is a mishmash of stillborn storylines without  direction or purpose.  Hopefully Jordan has not grown indolent such that he  is only drawing out the series for his own fun and profit.  Instead, he  MUST pick up the pace and bring the series to a rousing conclusion within  2-3 books to avoid alienating existing readers and retain the ability to  attract new ones.	1999-11-29
US	52052616	R41HJ7B2QT2EK	0312857691	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Actually two hundred pages short!	TPoD is the most disappointing of the WoT series because it had potential that did not get realized.  The Rebels v. the Red Tower, the Black Tower v. the Aes Sedai, the unification of the Borderlands under the Dragon banner,  the (probable) abduction of Mat to Seanchan; all these plotlines were left  dangling but at least some should have and could have been, to a degree,  resolved.  This chapter also had the weakest ending of any of the WoT  books, weaker even than ACoS.  If you're going to write the longest fantasy  epic ever, put some more meat in it as we head (hopefully) toward a  conclusion.	1998-11-17
