US	52068296	R19K7N3SWQCWKC	0375506713	856927733	The March: A Novel	Books	5	249	274	N	N	Cry "Havoc," and let slip the dogs of war.	Mark Twain often blamed, not without some reason, the onset of the U.S. Civil War on the writings of Sir Walter Scott.  Scott's romantic view (Twain called them Scott's enchantments) of war, chivalry, and honor colored southern culture to such an extent that war became inevitable.  Any lingering romantic notions about war were put to rest by General William Tecumseh Sherman's march through the south. Sherman's view of war was simple: war is brutal and it must be fought with brutality and overwhelming strength if victory is to be achieved.  Sherman's often brutal march through the south forms the centerpiece of E.L. Doctorow's \\"The March\\".  Both havoc and the `dogs of war' form the underlying background against which the novel's plot plays itself out.    In a recent discussion about \\"The March\\" Doctorow stated that he intended to give the book a \\"Russian feel\\".  In that he has succeeded.  The broad canvas painted by Doctorow, a multitude of characters (both real and fictional) who meet, interact, and depart while war is waged all around them does contain stark similarities to Leo Tolstoy, Boris Pasternak, and Vasily Grossman.  Doctorow's unique voice and style allows him to impart this \\"Russian\\" flavor to a novel about the Civil War without it seeming imitative or derivative.  The March is an original and entertaining piece of work.    There are a host of characters in the book. Some, like Sherman, appears throughout. Others, who shall remain nameless, make an impact on the reader and advance the story but suffer untimely fates.  As with any war untimely deaths are the rule rather than the exception. The other major characters include: Pearl, a newly freed slave who father was her former plantation master; Colonel Wrede Sartorius, a German born army surgeon; Arly and Will, two Confederate soldiers whose appearance and reappearance in Union and Confederate uniforms is both amusing and ultimately suspenseful; Stephen Walsh, a Union soldier who finds himself spending alot of time with Pearl; and Emily Thompson, a southern woman who ends up as a nurse to Dr. Sartorious.    Doctorow devotees will recognize Dr. Sartorious as the evil Dr. Sartorius featured in Waterworks. They will also recognize the freed slave Coalhouse Walker as the father of jazz pianist Coalhouse Walker Jr. from Ragtime.  These `coincidences' are not central to the plot but does engage the reader with background information about the characters not readily apparent from the reading.    The book progresses along with Sherman's march.  We see southern cities burnt down at the least sign of resistance and we see captured Union soldiers executed without cause.  War is indeed hell and the havoc of war is omnipresent.  Doctorow is unstinting of his portraits of all his characters be they northern or southern.  There is no such thing as a romantic hero; there is simply brutality in the name of survival and accommodation to the dogs of war barking at everyone's feet.    One noticeable element of The March is the easy transformation of the characters into different versions of themselves.  Will and Arly's rapid changes are the most evident of them. So too is Pearl's transformation from a timid slave girl into a Union drummer boy and then a nurse.  All around the novel such changes abound.   The war, for all its brutality, provides many of the characters in the novel with the freedom to change themselves and society's perception of them.  The boxes to which we are consigned are put aside and we are then free to create our own version of ourselves free from a peacetime society's constraints.    The novel ends as the war ends.  The end of the novel is as ambiguous as the end of the war itself.  There is certain optimism that freedom (whether from slavery or society's pigeonholing) gained will not be lost once the fog of war lifts.  The reader may know better than the characters how unfounded that optimism was but the characters do not and their nave hopes makes them all the more poignant.    The March is a fine book.	2005-10-12
US	52068296	R3E1H6WJG93FV5	0300106815	914464500	The KGB File of Andrei Sakharov (Annals of Communism Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	"Oppression that is clearly inexorable and invincible	does not give rise to revolt but to submission.\\"  Simone Weil's statement provides a fairly accurate overview of the low level of public dissent seen in the Soviet Union through much of its existence.  The inexorable and seemingly invincible oppression took root during Stalin's reign and remained in place in one form or another through the beginning of Gorbachev's glasnost campaign.  Yet dissent was not silenced entirely.  Throughout the Soviet era a small band of individuals, mostly acting individually or in very loose coalitions, did not submit.  It is clear that dissidents such as A.I. Solzhenitsyn, Anatoly Scharansky, and Roy Medvedev caused the Soviet regime no small amount of concern.  But as set out in \\"The KGB File of Andrei Sakharov\\" no one caused more aggravation to the Soviet authorities than Andrei Sakharov.<br /><br />The editors Joshua Rubenstein and Alexander Gribanov have done an excellent job of putting the files in perspective.  The book begins with a brief political biography by Rubenstein of the life of Sakharov and on the history of dissent in the USSR.  Rubenstein, a director at Amnesty International has been involved in Soviet affairs for years and his deep knowledge of the subject matter shows through.  The biographical introduction is concise but provides sufficient background information for the documents that follow.  (I recommend Richard Lourie's \\"Sakharov a Biography\\" and Sakharov's \\"Memoirs\\" but Rubenstein's introduction is sufficient.)<br /><br />Sakharov was the Soviet scientist primarily responsible for the development of the Soviet's H-bomb.  He was a hero of the Soviet Union and had almost unlimited, direct access to the Soviet leadership. But Sakharov grew distant from the regime. He refused membership in the Communist Party and began to take up the cause of fellow scientists who had been unfairly dismissed.  As Sakharov dissent evolved the regime grew increasingly intolerant of Sakharov's actions. Sakharov went from focusing on small issues to issues of internal democracy and global peace.  It is clear that if Sakharov did not possess a vast array of nuclear secrets he would have been subject to the exile in the same manner as Alexandr Solzhenitsyn. At the same time, Sakharov was awarded the Nobel Peace Price. The Soviet authorities treated the award as part of a capitalist conspiracy to discredit it. Eventually, the authorities exiled Sakharov and his wife to the closed city of Gorky. There he was harassed and harried on a daily basis by the KGB and its agents.<br /><br />The Sakharov files are sorted into five sections.  They follow the trajectory of Sakharov's involvement in the dissident movement, through his exile to Gorky, and his return from internal exile and untimely death.  Most of the files consist of memos and status reports from the KGB to the Central Committee of the Communist Party.  Most of the reports were written by Yuri Andropov in his capacity as Chairman of the KGB.<br /><br />The documents are chilling on many levels.  The writing is banal at best.  One expects dull bureaucratic prose from low level bureaucrats but I expected more from the Chairman of the KGB. Andropov did have various insights along the way but it almost seems accidental.  Second, we see evidence of the type of cheap bullying that one see in B-gangster movies from the 1950s.  In one memo Andropov notes that Sakharov takes walks in the woods and notes that \\"during these excursions, unexpected occurrences, accidents, etc. can happen and . . . [it would be wise] to speak to Sakharov and point out to him the undesirability of doing things that might jeopardize his health.\\"<br /><br />Despite all the cheap threats, the intimidation, and the deprivation, Sakharov won his fight.  Shortly after Gorbachev came to power Sakharov and Bonner returned to Moscow.  At the time of his death Sakharov had emerged as the leading opposition figure in the fight over the new Soviet constitution that eventually ended the Communist Party's monopoly on political power.  The Soviet Union died shortly after Sakharov did.<br /><br />It is easy in the west to minimize the impact dissidents such as Andrei Sakharov had on the Soviet regime.  However, as Rubenstein points out in his Introduction, former Ambassador to the U.S. Anatoly Dobrynin acknowledged that the dissidents \\"caused considerable damage not only at home, but also to our relations with the rest of the world.\\"  When asked how this was possible another dissident, Andrei Amalrik made the point eloquently: \\"In an unfree country they behaved like free men, thereby changing the moral atmosphere and the nation's governing traditions.\\"<br /><br />Andrei Sakharov walked free in an unfree land and in so doing confound the Soviet authorities.  Rubenstein and Gribanov's \\"The KGB Files of Andrei Sakharov\\" is an excellent place to examine Sakharov's life as seen through the eyes of those who tried unsuccessfully to have him revert to submission.	2005-10-01
US	52068296	R2IFHLNBV8894G	006051518X	915422162	Anansi Boys: A Novel	Books	5	214	232	N	N	The web of our life is of a mingled yarn	good and ill together.  That line from Shakespeare's All's Well that Ends Well captures the essence of Neil Gaiman's latest creation, Anansi Boys.   <br /> <br />Charlie Nancy is one of life's more passive characters.  He is perpetually embarrassed by those around him.  He grew up in Florida embarrassed by his father who had an eye for the ladies, never seemed to have a job, and who bestowed upon Charlie the nickname \\"Fat Charlie\\".  It is a name that stuck to Charlie like glue and has followed him everywhere he goes, even to England where he now lives and works. More than anything else, Fat Charlie is embarrassed by himself.   His life is an endless stream of self-conscious needless apologies for his life. As one would expect from a character like Charlie he is timid in front of his boss and can't seem to convince his fianc that there is nothing wrong with consummating their relationship prior to their marriage.  The word perpetually frustrated comes to mind here. <br /> <br />As the story opens, Fat Charlie is back in Florida for the funeral of his father.  Charlie no doubt hopes his dad's death, which occurred while singing a song in a Karaoke bar much to Charlie's embarrassment, will put an end to his own state of perpetual embarrassment. That is the closure Charlie seeks.  But the old ladies who made up his Dad's circle of friends tell Fat Charlie that their father was something of a god, in fact a spider god. They also tell Fat Charlie he has a brother.  Fat Charlie, of course, will have none of this nonsense and returns to England. <br /> <br />Of course, life is never so simple for any character drawn by Neil Gaiman.  It turns out Fat Charlie does have a brother, Spider, who is everything Charlie is not. Spider is personable, charming, glib, and has the ability to charm the pants off just about anyone he desires.  As the name Spider implies, Charlie is soon drawn into the parallel world inhabited by Spider a world of small gods and vengeful animals.  Fat Charlie is introduced to a whole new universe of characters and his ability to distinguish between fact and fantasy grows increasingly thin.  <br /> <br />Anansi Boys worked on two levels for me.  First, I actually grew attached to the character of Fat Charlie.  I was surprised that I developed such empathy for Fat Charlie.  Generally, I do not find `passive' characters all that attractive, but, as the book wore on I felt myself rooting for him. Second, Anansi Boy is, at its heart a story about a dysfunctional (but very funny) family and explores how its members try to reach some accommodation with their past and their present relationships. This is not meant to imply that the book is weighed down with ponderous statements on the meaning of life or families; far from it.  The great success of Gaiman's writing in my opinion is that he can handle a topic with both humor and sensitivity.  The story does not bog down in `deep thoughts'.  Gaiman spins his yarn and leaves it up to the reader to read between the laughs. I found the conclusion to be particularly well done. <br /> <br />Anansi Boys, like the spiders that form its conceptual heart, draws you inexorably into its web until you cannot get out.  Fortunately, Gaiman has spun such a fine yarn that you don't mind being ensnared at all.  This was a book worth reading. <br />	2005-09-26
US	52068296	R2WBI774UWD3AV	1860467075	18287583	Three Elegies For Kosovo (Panther)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Ties That Bind	The French philosopher and scientist Blaise Pascal once suggested that we \\"imagine a number of men in chains and all condemned to death, where some are killed each day in the sight of the others, and those who remain see their own fate in that of their fellows and wait their turn, looking at each other sorrowfully and without hope. It is an image of the condition of man.\\" <br /> <br />It is also the image of Kosovo and the rest of the Balkans painted so vividly by Albanian poet and writer Ismail Kadare in his masterfully imagined \\"Three Elegies for Kosovo\\".   As the book's title suggests Three Elegies consists of three inter-related stories centered on a famous battle that took place in Kosovo more than 615 years ago.  On June 28, 1389 a combined army of Serbs, Bosnians, Albanians and Romanians waged a fierce battle against an Ottoman-Turkish army in Kosovo on the Field of the Blackbirds. The battle was seen as one in which the combined Balkan armies fought on behalf of Christian Europe to halt the surging westward expansion of the Islamic Ottoman Empire.  The Ottoman army, led by Sultan Murad I was victorious.  The Sultan was killed on the day of the battle and was buried in Kosovo.  Ironically, despite their victory the Turks never followed up on this victory and did not return to the region for another 150 years. <br /> <br />The first story takes us from the night before the June 28, 1389 battle and through the battle itself.  In the camp of the combined army on the eve of the battle peoples who have long fought each other prepare to fight a common enemy.  Old animosities are forgotten temporarily.  The soldiers and officers, drinking perhaps too much, demand that their minstrels sing songs to prepare them for battle.  The minstrels (who serve as narrators of the first two stories) sing battle songs but they are songs in which the Serbs speak of the horrid Albanians, and the Albanians sing songs of the hated Serbs.  When asked why they rely on these old songs the minstrels respond that songs take long to change than alliances. <br /> <br />The second story begins at the end of the battle.  The minstrels, along with the others, are devastated by the loss and begin wandering west. The Balkans were considered the `fringe' of Europe by Europeans even them.  As they wander, some of the old animosities come back.  They face hunger, suspicion, persecution and the occasional act of kindness. <br /> <br />The third story, \\"The Royal Prayer\\" is the most moving of the three.  As noted, the victorious Sultan Murad I was killed at the battle and buried in Kosovo.  This story is narrated in the voice of Murad's spirit, locked in his tomb.  We read of his watching as the same battles rage around him, unresolved, for six hundred years.  He catches snippets of information from newspapers tossed aside near the tomb.  \\"From these I learn what is going on all around.  The surprising names of viziers and countries: NATO, R. Cook, Madeline Albright. The slaughter of children in Drenice.\\"  The more things change. <br /> <br />Kadare has said, in commenting on the symbolic importance of the 1389 battle that \\"on the six hundredth anniversary of the battle in 1989, Milosevic launched the first massacre of Kosovars, and started the explosion of Yugoslavia.\\" Kadare says, in the second elegy, that \\"[t]he Serb's eyes were filled with the same tragic laments.  Both men were prisoners, tied to each other by ancient chains, which they could not and did not want to break.\\"  As seen through the eyes of Ismail Kadare the chains that bind the people of the Balkans are old, strong, and not easily broken.  The beauty of his prose highlights the tragedy of what he describes. <br /> <br />Some may challenge Kadare's viewpoint or suggest he bears, as an Albanian, the prejudices of his ancestors.  As an outsider all I saw was an exposition in beautfully constructed prose on a tragedy whose beginning cannot be traced and whose ending cannot be seen. <br /> <br />Three Elegies for Kosovo is a beautiful little (87 pages) book and one well worth reading. <br />	2005-09-25
US	52068296	R5TUT56BJP40H	0060815221	379004211	Thud! A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	72	79	N	N	How Green Was Koom Valley	On June 28, 1389 a combined army of Serbs, Bosnians, Albanians and Romanians waged a fierce battle against an Ottoman army on the Plains of Kosovo.  Although details of the battle are obscure and lost in the mists of time the animosity between the parties has lingered.  It was no surprise therefore that on the 600th anniversary of the battle President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia launched his `ethnic cleansing' campaign in Kosovo.  Sometimes the oldest animosities burn the brightest.     That is just about the scenario found in \\"THUD\\", Terry Pratchett's latest roller coaster ride through Discworld.  The origin and outcome of the ancient Battle of Koom Valley between the Trolls and Dwarves has been obscured and the subject of much debate; but, the lingering and long-lasting hatred between them means they are always one spark away from renewed battle.    Grag Hamcrusher is what you might call a Dwarf extremist.  Emerging from the depths he rails against those dwarves who have risen close to the surface. He intimates Dwarf residents of Ankh-Morpork who have made accommodations to a life lived above ground.  Hamcrusher is a zealot who would like nothing better than to renew a holy war against the hated Trolls.  As Thud opens Hamcrusher has just been murdered, thud \\"being the sound the heavy club made as it connected with the head\\".  The initial evidence, a troll club found near the apparent murder scene, seems destined to bring their historic enmity to a boil. It is up to Commander Vimes and the Watch to find out who killed Hamcrusher and try to avoid a war that could destroy Ankh-Morpork.    The Patrician, not surprisingly, has complicated matters for Vimes.  Bowing to pressure to increase the diversity of the Watch, Vimes is obligated to hire his first vampire, a very young, very attractive lady named Sally.  This serves to increase the tension in the Watch most notably with Angua, the Watch's werewolf.  Sparks fly and the claws are drawn as Angua senses that Sally ismore than a bit interested in Captain Carrot.  The Patrician has also seen fit to bring in a pencil pushing bureaucrat to audit the Watch's operations.  This all serves to make Commander Vimes' own emotional fuse as short as the one keyed to the Trolls and Dwarves.     It is never a good idea to reveal too much of the plot in a review.  This is particularly the case for the Discworld books where Pratchett has twists and turns on every page.  Needless to say, events race from pillar to post.  The furtive nature of the Dwarves, whose emotions are as submerged as the Dwarves themselves and the rather stoic nature of the Trolls (with the exception of Shine who appears to be one droll troll) has Vimes feeling as if he is trying to complete a jigsaw puzzle without any visual image of the puzzle he is trying to solve.       Two elements of Thud put Thud for me in the highest rank of Discworld books.  First, we are given very full, textured look at Commander Vimes.  The reader is exposed to the growing disconnect between the controlled, outward demeanor and his emotionally charged interior that seem to grow increasingly more uncontrolled as the plot develops.   It is both compelling and more than a bit scary.  It brought Vimes to life in a very realistic way.  Second, I thought the ending to Thud was one of Pratchett's best conclusions.  Although I am never happy to see a Discworld book end, this ending was so well done (in my opinion only) that it almost makes up for the fact that it will be another twelve months or so before the next Discworld is published.    Thud is a great addition to the Discworld series.	2005-09-18
US	52068296	R8YNYKWXFS4S2	0060753617	344843345	Seize the Fire: Heroism, Duty, and the Battle of Trafalgar	Books	5	36	38	N	N	"Uncommon Valor was a Common Virtue"	That description of the U.S. Marines who fought at Iwo Jima in 1945 is an equally appropriate description of the British, French, and Spanish sailors who fought at the Battle of Trafalgar on October 21, 1805.   <br /> <br />Napoleon once referred to England as a nation of shopkeepers (\\"LAngleterre est une natione de boutiquiers\\").  This was a disparaging remark meant to signify that England was not capable of success in a war against his France.  The heart of Adam Nicolson's \\"Seize the Fire: Heroism, Duty and the Battle of Trafalgar\\" is the suggestion that England bested the French and Spanish fleets at Trafalgar in part because they were a nation of shopkeepers not despite that fact. Nicolson make a compelling argument that differences in the social and political conditions of the combatants played a significant role in determining the outcome of the battle before it began.   <br /> <br />Seize the Fire consists of three interwoven story lines: the battle itself; an overview of the social structures of the combatants; and a discussion of the officer class of the British navy.  The book is structured as a chronological narrative of the preparations for and the battle itself on October 21, 1805.  Chapters are set up to cover specific time periods during the day.  The narrative of the battle is straightforward.  Nicolson provides a description of the fleets and the morale of their crews. Nicolson provides a good general overview of vessel construction and operation in the age of sail.  By the time battle is joined I had sufficient background information to follow the course of the battle itself.  What I was not prepared for was the sheer carnage of Trafalgar.  If you have seen the opening minutes of the movie Saving Private Ryan you will have a good idea of the word-picture painted by Nicolson. <br /> <br />The early chapters contains Nicolson's discourse on the social structure of the combatants. Spain is seen as a society still struggling to emerge from the middle ages.  It had an ossified social structure that was part monarchical and part theocratic.  There was little economic growth, a very low birth rate, and no upward social mobility of any kind. There was no middle class to speak of and the country was effective divided between an effete aristocracy and a peasant class.  Its navy was similarly constructed.  Although many of its naval officers were brave, and some very capable sailors, advancement was not based on merit but through a complex aristocratic hierarchy.  Post-revolutionary France also suffered from a very low birth rate and a stagnant economy.  More importantly, the French Navy was not immune from the revolution's dramatic restructuring of French society.  At the height of the Terror the Navy was radicalized along lines later made famous by the Soviet Union.  Political commissars subverted the authority of the officer class.  Experienced officers fell victim to the Terror in a manner starkly similar to the decimation of the Soviet officer class in the years rior to World War II.  Consequently, even after the rise of Napoleon the damage to the French navy's discipline and spirit of initiative was too great to be repaired before Trafalgar.  Nicolson describes an emerging capitalist England marked by both a booming birth rate and economy and a burgeoning middle class.  Upward social and economic mobility was a very real prospect to most Englishmen (at least for those who had already reached certain minimal levels of advancement) and those prospects were readily available in the Navy. Opportunity for advancement (of  its officer class) in the Navy was available not just to the aristocracy but also to the English middle class, including Nelson and many of his flag officer..    <br /> <br />Last, Nicolson provides a detailed analysis of the cultural ethos that permeated the British Navy.  Concepts of duty, honor, and courage formed an integral element of each Navy, but the necessity of victory was first and foremostin the minds of the English. Courage and honor without victory was not enough.  Victory was everything and duty and courage was considered obvious prerequisites. <br /> <br />The arguments Nicolson makes are compelling even if one does not agree with all his conclusions or if  you think his emphasis on the critical impact England's developing capitalist ethos had on victory is a bit too fulsome.  I happen to think that Nicolson goes a long way towards making his case.  Others may disagree but that should not detract from the underlying quality of Nicolson's writing and his analysis. <br /> <br />Seize the Fire is a fine examination of an historic battle and the world in which it took place. <br />	2005-09-15
US	52068296	R3J2OBCE7OR328	0380821214	372532263	Eric	Books	4	27	27	N	N	The devil may hath power	to assume a pleasing shape according to Hamlet but only on Discworld could the devil or any demon assume the shape of Rincewind.  But that is exactly what Terry Pratchett calls up in \\"Eric\\", Pratchett's Discworld homage to Faust. <br /> <br />Eric, the protagonist, is a teenaged `demonologist' from Pseuodopolis.   Eric is also a spoiled brat according to Eric's parrot. Eric was trying to summon a demon in order to have the demon grant Eric's wish for power, women, and eternal life.  Instead, through a series of Discworldian circumstances Eric calls up Rincewind, last seen locked in the Dungeon Dimensions (Sourcery). <br /> <br />What follows is a Discworld version of a Hope and Crosby Road movie that parallels Faust.  Eric and Rincewind travel to the ends of time (actually the beginning of time among other places) and Rincewind faces adversity and the threat of death in his own inimitable fashion (feet don't fail me now).   <br /> <br />There are some great set pieces in Eric.  DEATH makes two brief, but very funny appearances.  First, when the Wizards determine something strange is going on they summon DEATH and demand answer.  Of course, they realize quickly that perhaps they should speak to him in the same manner that people in Ankh Morpork speak to the Patrician.  Later in the book, DEATH patiently awaits the moment for life to begin is priceless Pratchett fashion.  Having the universe start with a paper clip and not a big bang was a very appealing concept.  <br /> <br />Similarly hilarious is Rincewind's trip to the new and improved version of hell. Physical torture has been replaced by endless viewings of someone else's holiday slides, elevator music, and the recitation of thousands of pages of regulations only a hellish bureaucrat could construct.  Interestingly, Rincewind's conversation with a creator of universes who takes special pride in the creation of trees had a nice resemblance to Slartibartfast from Douglas Adams Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy whoaward for creating the jigsaw like coastline of the fjords of Norway.  <br /> <br />Despite these typically brilliant bits Eric lacked some of the cohesion found in most of the other Discworld books I have read.  Apparently, Eric was originally published as a graphic novel and the illustrations went a long way towards fleshing out the story line.  In a sense this version seems to be akin to reading a comic (a very good comic book) without the comic art.  There does seem to be something a bit lacking. <br /> <br />However, even if Eric is not Pratchett's finest Discworld book it is still very much worth reading.  There is an old clich that a bad day of fishing is better than the best day of work.  In this instance I think it fair to say that a good but the best Discworld book is better than the best that many other authors can put out.  I recommend this book to any Discworld fan.  I would not recommend this to anyone new to Discworld.  Eric works best once one has got to know a bit about Discworld generally and Rincewind specifically. <br /> <br />Eric, despite any flaws, is still very much worth reading.	2005-09-09
US	52068296	R2NZ5K489TE2GV	0312317611	965018086	Praying for Gil Hodges: A Memoir of the 1955 World Series and One Family's Love of the Brooklyn Dodgers	Books	4	22	25	N	N	The three great villains of the 20th century were	if you listened to my father and assorted uncles and aunts and neighborhood adults, Adolf Hitler, Josef Stalin and Walter O'Malley.  This ironic jest (at least I think it was intended to be funny) is usually attributed, as it is in this book, to New York journalists Pete Hamill and Jack Newfield.  That may be, but the expression must have enjoyed wide currency throughout Brooklyn in the years after the Dodgers fled Brooklyn for California.  I grew up a devoted Met fan but never could quite understand the fierce devotion these adults had for a long gone team.  Thomas Oliphant's \\"Praying for Gil Hodges: A Memoir of the 1955 World Series and One Family's Love of the Brooklyn Dodgers\\" goes a long way toward explaining why the universe, in Brooklyn at least, revolved around the beloved Brooklyn Dodgers.    \\"Praying for Gil Hodges\\" is something of an etude in three parts. The foundation of the book is a detailed inning-by-inning account of the seventh game of the 1955 World Series, the one time Brooklyn managed to beat the Yankees.  The Yankees had won every World Series from 1949 through 1953, beating strong Dodger teams in 1949, 1952, and 1953.  Oliphant wraps two related stories around the seventh game: the story of the role the Dodgers played in his own family; and the story of the intimate relationship between the Dodgers and their fans in Brooklyn.  Oliphant's account of the seventh game (and critical games in the 1955 and earlier World Series defeats) is at once vibrant and concise.  It is clear Oliphant has had a long term love affair with baseball and it shows in the details. Although anyone reading the book probably knows the outcome of the game, there is no shortage of excitement in the retelling.    Oliphant's story of how the Dodger's played a central role in his family's life and the impact the Dodgers had on the people of Brooklyn are also fascinating.  Some earlier reviews imply that there is an element of political correctness in this book, perhaps because Oliphant is unstinting in his evaluation of the impact on baseball and America by the arrival of Jackie Robinson.  Oliphant also pointed out that the Dodgers did not sign Robinson as a token. They sought out the best ball players they could no matter what color.  As a result, Robinson was joined by Campanella, Amoros, Gilliam, and Newcombe and formed what must be considered the first truly integrated team in American sports.  Oliphant is correct in asserting that the Dodgers were at least a decade ahead of their time in this respect.  More importantly these players helped create the team that finally beat the pinstriped Yankees. This is not a matter of political correctness as much as it is a matter of the actual historical record.  Oliphant does try to restore a bit of O'Malley's reputation by noting that New York's great power broker Robert Moses quashed every plan O'Malley had for building a new stadium in Brooklyn.  Moses was a person for whom my family heaped almost as much scorn on as O'Malley so ultimately it is six of one, half dozen of the other.  Either way, the team is gone.  I found only one real fault with \\"Praying for Gil Hodges\\".  As mentioned, the book has three parallel plot lines. However, I noted that a number of stories and anecdotes found in one plot line were repeated, sometimes more than once, in other plot lines.  Some judicious editing would have been useful.  Ultimately, the occasional duplicate story does not get in the way of a very enjoyable read.   Don Drysdale, once said of the old Dodgers that \\"[i]n Brooklyn, it was as though you were in your own little bubble. You were all part of one big, but very close family, and the Dodgers were the main topic of everybody's conversations and you could sense the affection people had for you. I don't know that such a thing exists anymore.\\"  Tom Oliphant's \\"Praying for Gil Hodges\\" is a very enjoyable read that pretty much sums up why Drysdale, Oliphant, and my father and uncles all felt the sameway.  I heartily recommend this book and only add that it be read in conjunction with Doris Kearns Goodwin's equally exquisite \\"Wait Till Next Year\\".	2005-09-07
US	52068296	R26SJYCVMSABTI	1585675571	457393210	Petroleum Man	Books	4	3	3	N	N	"The Diary of the American Dream"	That American dream slogan used to be part of an advertising campaign for the Wall Street Journal. It may also serve now as the ironic subtitle of Stanley Crawford's \\"Petroleum Man.\\"  Leon Tuggs is a billionaire.  In fact, the amount of billions that make up Tuggs' net worth increases exponentially at a rate exceeding the number of MacDonald's hamburgers sold world wide each day.  An engineer by profession, Tuggs is the inventor of \\"the Thingie®\\".  The Thingie is apparently a rather simple device but,like the wheel, virtually everyone on the planet owns one.    The book is in the form of a diary.  Each diary or journal entry bears the name of a model car that serves as a reminder of the actual car(s) that played a role in Tuggs' life. They include everything from a 1939 Ford Fordor (Ford's clever spelling of four-door) Sedan to a 2000 Bentley Azure Convertible. The model cars are gifts bestowed upon Leon's grandchildren, Fabian and Rowena to commemorate birthdays or other important events in the life of Leon Tuggs. The journal entries are to be presented to Rowena and Fabian when Leon deems them old enough to understand them. The entries each involve a particular car but Tuggs manages to wrap the story of the car around his life story, his business dealings, his relations with his wife, daughter and son-in-law and his theory of life, the universe, and everything.  These life lessons are meant to help his grandchildren on the `road to life'.  In many respects the main characters are pretty broadly-drawn stereotypes.  Tuggs is the arch-capitalist robber baron.  His world revolves around himself, his millions, and billions.  Poor people are poor because they deserve to be poor. The wealthy are important because they serve as role model for the rest of us minions of the middle classes. His long-suffering wife is portrayed as being a bit ditsy.  She wants nothing more than a return to the simple life despite her billions. She takes up worthy causes and eventually converts acres of her property into an organic farm in which she attracts legions or ardent feminists who wish to protect her from her husband. (This played a bit like certain scenes in The World According to Garp.)  Tuggs daughter is dutiful, loyal and a successful attorney who for some inexplicable reason married Tuggs' most dreaded type - the liberal democrat.  Crawford plays the son-in-law as the quintessential limousine liberal (indeed he is wealthy and married into even greater wealth) who wouldn't recognize a worker if he tried.   These exaggerated stereotypes work very well in Petroleum Man.  They make perfect foils for Crawford's jabs at contemporary society. He seems to paint a society in which Thorstein Veblen's theory of conspicuous consumption is taken to its logical extreme and ini which all players in this scenario, including his son-in-law and wife, are willing participants. In a manner reminiscent of Adam Smith who said that \\"consumption is the sole end and purpose of all production\\", Tuggs refers to the world's consumers as petroleum people (hence the book's title).  He asserts bluntly that what he/we \\"are good at doing is arranging our lives and the lives or others so as to use as much petroleum and derivative products and related natural resources as is humanly possible.\\"  For Tuggs, the world is about things.  He tells his grandchildren to trust things not people and he eagerly awaits the time when the world will be paved over.  Although this sounds terribly serious and perhaps a bit boring for those looking for good fiction, in the hands of Crawford and as uttered in the immortal words of Leon Tuggs the effect is the result plays more like tragedy than comedy.  The book held my interest throughout.  This is no small feat given the fact that Tuggs may be one of the most unappealing protagonists I have come across in quite some time.  His stunning lack of self-reflection makes some of today's entrepreneurial giants (e.g. self-proclaimed New York billionaires with highly rated reality shows and edifice complexes) appear to have the introspection of Socrates.    The comedic, or satiric, tone holds up until the very end of the book, until the last chapter.  Those last four sentences of the last diary entry make for a powerfully evocative end to the book.  It was, for me, a satisfying conclusion and one that put all that proceeded it in some perspective. It turned the daily diary of the American dream into something approaching a nightmare.  This was an entertaining, funny, and thoughtful book.  L. Fleisig	2005-08-30
US	52068296	R1HJ5QX3S8XG6D	0297645536	460442831	The Death of Achilles	Books	4	35	36	N	N	Achilles Heeled	My mother never cooked pot roast the same way twice even though she made it every Friday night for years.  It tasted different every time despite the fact that the basic ingredients remained the same. However, she managed to vary the ingredients and their mixture enough so that each Friday it tasted like a new dish.  As a result I never grew tired of it.    The same is true of Boris Akunin's Erast Fandorin mysteries.  Each one contains the same basic ingredients: the brilliant, handsome yet emotionally scarred Russian detective Erast Fandorin; charming yet dangerous women; a murder or series of murders which typically have or could have a political impact on mother Russia in the last quarter of the 19th-century; and a villain or villains who test Fandorin's physical and mental skills.  Yet, in each one Akunin manages to mix and match the ingredients enough to make each one in the series seem fresh.  The fourth in the series, \\"Death of Achilles\\", is as fresh as the first (the wonderful \\"Winter Queen) and was great fun to read.  The plot is relatively straightforward.  Fandorin has returned from Japan to Moscow in order to assume the position of Deputy for Special Assignments to Prince Vladimir Dolgoruski, the Governor of Moscow.  At his very first meeting with the Prince Fandorin is saddened and astonished to hear that that his friend and mentor General Sobolev, known to his millions of admirers throughout Russia as Achilles, has been found dead in his room. Fandorin is told that Sobolev has died of a heart attack while sleeping alone in his hotel room. Fandorin quickly determines that not only did Sobolev not die in his room but that he died in the midst of a passionate embrace with a well-known German woman of easy virtue.  Fandorin next determines that Sobolev's death was not a heart attack but by poisoning and sets out to unravel the crime and reveal the killers.    Fandorin is faced with no easy task.  Prince Dolgoruski and the Russian ruling elite (the Royal family) want the matter disposed of quickly with no hint of foul play.  Sobolev's comrades at arms have reasons aplenty (some of them quite politically charged) to keep the nature of Sobolev's lurid end from coming to light.  Further, Moscow's violent criminal underworld has been tasked with using any means necessary to stop the investigation in its tracks.  In other words, for Fandorin an untimely death lurks around every corner.  Although the odds are stacked against him Fandorin can rely on the martial arts skills he acquired while in Japan. He also has some added protection from Masahiro Shibata, a member of the Japanese warrior class who owes his life to Fandorin. This particular aspect of the plot is perhaps the weakest element of Death of Achilles.  It does stretch the imagination a bit to believe that a Russian detective has returned from Japan with martial arts expertise and a warrior bodyguard.  It is not quite so far fetched as it may sound based on Fandorin's experience with Japan in earlier volumes in the series but it does require more than the normal suspension of disbelief used in most detective novels.  If Fandorin's martial arts skills are the plot's weakest element, they are more than made up for by the starring role accorded to Fandorin's nemesis, Achimas.  Achimas is a brutally efficient and intelligent killing machine.  He has a mind like a chess master and is Fandorin's equal both in physical and mental skills.  As such he is the perfect foil for Fandorin and Akunin does a masterful job of bringing Achimas to life.  Akunin provides us with a sharply drawn portrait of Achimas' life.  It makes for compelling reading and vests the villain with more subtlety and nuance than is usually the case in such stories.    The Death of Achilles will not disappoint fans of the Erast Fandorin mysteries.  It should also be enjoyed by people who are new to Akunin's work.  It stands up well on its own and can be enjoyed by people who have not read the earlier book.  Having said that, I think the reading experience would be enhanced by reading Akunin's earlier three books in the series. First, they are each excellent in their own right.  Second, they provide the reader with background information on Fandorin that does make some of his actions here a bit easier to grasp.  In many ways this series is similar to Martin Cruz Smith's series of books involving another Russian detective (about 100 years later) Arkady Renko.  Each volume is good by itself but the sum is far greater than its individual parts.  Enjoy!	2005-08-20
US	52068296	R2HUB0P53AFHBM	0575058005	746993744	Interesting Times (Pratchett, Terry. Discworld Series.)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	"Whom the gods would destroy	they first make mad.\\" So said Euripides and so say the small gods of Discworld who set the plot in motion for Terry Pratchett's hilarious yet thoughtful \\"Interesting Times\\".  The title of the book is based on the curse \\"may you live in interesting times\\" and because the phrase is reputedly of Chinese origin (its actual origin remains a mystery) the story is placed squarely in the Discworld equivalent of Asia - the Aurient.  A group of gods, including Fate and Lady Luck are engaged in a pleasant evening of gambling.  They decide to play \\"The Fall of Great Houses\\" and pick the Agatean Empire as the playing ground.      The game requires a Great Wizard (actually a Great Wizzard) and the spectacularly un-great Wizard Rincewind is elected to play the role. Rincewind is packed off to the Aurient. Bluesman Albert Kings sings that \\"if it wasn't for bad luck you know I wouldn't have no luck at all.\\" That is also what Rincewind has to say for himself: \\"Luck is my middle name,\\" said Rincewind, indistinctly. \\"Mind you, my first name is Bad.\\"  Upon his arrival in the Aurient Rincewind finds, through no fault of his own, himself working with a cadre of young revolutionaries known as the Red Army who are determined to overthrow the Agataen Empire.  They recite some extraordinarily obstruse and silly slogans in support of their cause.  The Red Army seems based on Chairman Mao's cadres of the same name. On the other hand, this could be a sly reference to the supporters of the Aberdeen (Scotland) Footbal Club who refer to themselves as The Red Army, after the colors of their team.  With Terry Pratchett you never know for sure.    Apart from Rincewind, Interesting Times features two other recurring Discworld players, Cohen the Barbarian and Two-Flower.  All three rank as some of my favorite Discworld characters.  I have a particular fondness for Rincewind. He comes across as a mild, inept figure who gladly accepts the mantle of `coward'.  But after he gets knocked from pillar to post,after he has been slammed and slammed again, after he has tried every conceivable means of escape from danger a transformation occurs.  In Rincewind's case the gods don't make him mad as in crazy but mad as in really, really angry. Once he gets angry he explodes in a fit of righteous indignation at the evil that men do. Cowardice is left behind and Rincewind becomes a fierce fighter  for truth, justice, and the Ankh-Morporkian way.  In short, he is transformed from mouse to mensch.     Here is Rincewind setting his young cadres straight on the issue of \\"leaders\\": \\"I know about people who talk about suffering for the common good. It's never bloody them! When you hear a man shouting \\"Forward, brave comrades!\\" you'll see he's the one behind the bloody big rock and the one wearing the only really arrow-proof helmet!\\" It may not be the most profound thought in the world but it is certainly one that bears repeating.      In another angry moment of clarity Rincewind comes to realize what Cohen knew instinctively when Cohen said that the Empire had something worse than whips to keep people in line: \\"The Empire's got something worse than whips all right. It's got obedience. Whips in the soul. They obey anyone who tells them what to do. Freedom just means being told what to do by someone different.\\"    As with all of the Discworld series the plot develops quickly and the story line picks up speed as the plot thickens until it reaches a dramatic conclusion.  It would be a shame to reveal any plot details as one of the most satisfying parts of any Discworld book are the suprising twists and turns along the way.  Sufficie it to to say that Pratchett continues to do an excellent job mocking gently some of our cultural and political icons.  Pratchett gives revolutionaries and political leaders the same treatment he gives, for example, the press (The Truth), religion (Small Gods) and the movies (Moving Pictures).      Chairman Mao once said that \\"a revolution is not a dinner party.\\"  That may be so, but in the capable hands of Terry Pratchett a revolution on Discworld makes for a heck of an enjoyable read.	2005-08-20
US	52068296	R3C2DVZLX7YGT5	0375701028	138437884	Nightmare Town: Stories	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Words shot out like armor-piercing bullets	echo through the twenty short stories and novellas by Dashiell Hammett contained in Nightmare Town.<br /><br />Before turning to a full-time writing career, Hammett traveled around the country holding a series of different jobs.  Most notably he spent considerable time as a detective for the Pinkerton Agency.  He worked in Baltimore, San Francisco, and in mining towns throughout the American west.  He was exposed to murderers, grifters, con artists, graft, violent union-busting by the Pinkertons (which he abhorred and which help turn him into a lifelong radical) and corporate and governmental corruption. He made friends with other hardboiled detectives and saw first hand how life was on the dark side of town.  He drank in bars that served `hard drinks for hard men.  These experiences suffused Hammett's writings and the ultra-realistic atmosphere he created lifted almost single-handedly the detective genre from parlor room mysteries to the very real, very gritty streets of the country.<br /><br />Although best known as the author of such detective classics as The Thin Man, The Maltese Falcon, and The Glass Key,  Hammett wrote almost one hundred stories in a twelve-year period from 1922 to 1934 for pulp detective magazines such as Black Mask, True Detective Stories, and Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine.  Many of the stories in Nightmare Town have not been seen in print since their original publication.  Some of the stories are rough around the edges but they are all terse and well-written.  It is easy to see how Hammett's craft evolved from these short stories evolved into his full length classic.<br /><br />The title story, \\"Nightmare Town\\", is a barn-burner.  Steve Threefall awakens from a drunken bender in a small-town jail on the California-Nevada border.  The town is violent and corrupt. From the time he awakes from his drunken stupor until the stories climax the reader is taken on a dramatic roller coaster ride.  This short story reminded me of a classic boxing match between Marvin Hagler and Tommy Hearns which lasted under three short rounds but which many boxing fans claim to be the most intense nine minutes of boxing they have seen.  This is early Hammett and the story is not terribly polished but it is immensely enjoyable.  This sea-change brought about by Hammett was described succinctly by Raymond Candler (noted in William Nolan's excellent introduction): \\"He took murder out of the Venetian vase and dropped it into the alley.  Hammett gave murder back to the people that commit it for reasons, not just to provide a corpse.\\"<br /><br />In \\"Ruffian's Wife\\" we see the hard-edged life through the eyes of the wife of a seemingly violent thug.  She takes delight in having such a husband and living on the edge of violence, until the violence comes to her door step.  There are stories involving Sam Spade and the Continental Op, two figures made famous in Hammett's full-length novels.  The cynical world-weary view of the world is already apparent even if it is clearly a work in progress.  In an unusual turn the detective in \\"The Assistant Murderer\\" is painted by Hammett as fat, squat, and ugly.  No matinee idol for Hammett.<br /><br />The last story is perhaps the most intriguing.  Entitled \\"The First Thin Man\\", it is an early, incomplete, draft of The Thin Man.  The story line is dramatically different even if some of the characters remained the same.  Further, Nick and Nora Charles are nowhere to be found. It is the equivalent of a literary archeological dig and well worth the price of the book on its own.<br /><br />Nightmare Town may not be the best place to start for someone who has not yet read Hammett.  Because these stories represent some of Hammett's earliest work I think it best for a reader to start with The Thin Man, Maltese Falcon, and the like.  Once someone reads those books I think it a safe bet they will thirst for more.  Nightmare Town is an excellent way for someone to drink in a bit more Hammett than I previously thought existed.  These are terrific stories.<br /><br />L. Fleisigstories.    L. Fleisig	2005-08-10
US	52068296	R1J6LYXJMJCA86	0380633132	677758129	We	Books	4	13	16	N	Y	I am he as you are he as you are me	and we are all together.  These lyrics by the Beatles provide some flavor of the atmosphere of the futuristic society found in Yevgeny Zamyatin's dystopian classic \\"WE\\".  Written in the fledgling Soviet Union in 1920 \\"WE\\" had a direct influence n Aldous Huxley's Brave New World, George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four and Ayn Rand's Anthem.  In fact, Rand's Anthem tracks \\"WE\\" so closely both as to plot and character development that one cannot help but think that Zamyatin's influence on Rand was significant, to say the least.  Zamyatin was born in 1884 and studied naval engineering as a young man. Like many young Russian intellectuals Zamyatin was something of a revolutionary. He was arrested and exiled more than once by the Tsar's secret police for revolutionary activities.  During the First World War Zamyatin, by now a naval enginner was sent to England were he supervised the construction of icebreakers for the Russian navy.  He returned to Russia upon the outbreak of the October 1917 revolution.  Zamyatin turned to writing full time after the revolution.  Although a Bolshevik, Zamyatin chafed at the increasing censorship the Bolshevik's imposed on artists and writers.  In fact, WE was the first novel to be banned by the newly formed literary censorship board, GLAVLIT.  WE was not officially published in Russia or the USSR until 1988.  Not able to earn a living as a writer in the USSR, Zamyatin applied for an exit visa. Zamyatin was granted an exit visa and he emigrated to Paris, were he died a sick and poverty stricken man in 1937.  WE takes place in the twenty-sixth century a time in which a totalitarian regime has created an extremely regimented society where individual expression simply does not exist.  All remnants of individuality have been stripped from its inhabitants including their names.  Their names have been replaced with an alpha-numeric system.  People are not coupled. Rather, each individual is assigned three friends with whom they can have intimate relations on a rigid schedule established by the state.  Those scheduled assignations are the only times the shades in a citizen's glass houses can be closed.  Apart from those hourly intervals everyone's life is monitored by the state. As in Orwell's 1984 language has been turned on its head.  Freedom means unhappiness and conformity and the submission of individual will to the state means happiness.  D-503 is a mathematician.  He is busily engaged working on the construction of a spaceship, the Integral, which will carry the wonderful benefits of \\"The One State\\" to those living on distant planets.  He keeps a diary to provide a record of his feelings in the weeks before the launch.  But into his perfectly well-structured life walks I-330. She evokes in D-503 feelings which he has long suppressed or never knew he had.  He falls in love, can't sleep, and starts breaking rules and generally acting like most of us do today.  But I-330 is a heretic, an individual who smokes, drinks, loves carnal knowledge and seeks nothing more but the dissolution of the One State.  The next thing you know D-503 finds himself on the side of revolution.  As the book reaches it climactic moments questions as to the failure or success of the revolution are answered.  WE was a fascinating book to read.  Some of the language is a bit dated and Zamyatin's 1921 idea of what the future might look like has been outstripped by the reality of 20th-century developments.  However, the underlying themes of conformity v. freedom and \\"the state\\" v the individual still have great contemporary significance that keeps WE as fresh as it was when originally written.  Some have said that WE represented Zamyatin's attack on the oppression of the Soviet system.  I would have to disagree.  The book was written in 1920 well before the Soviet regime consolidated enough power to be considered a totalitarian society.  Further, even though WE contains some reference to the damage caused by regimes such as the fledgling USSR it also contains reference (looking back from the 26th-century) to societal ills caused by both capitalism and organized religion.  As such, Zamyatin believed in equal opportunity when it came to instruments of oppression.    At the end of the day it seems that what Zamyatin valued most in society were those people will to play the role of heretic. It certainly was a trait he valued in artists.  As he noted in an essay written in 1919:   True literature can exist only where it is created, not by diligent and trustworthy functionaries, but by madmen, hermits, heretics, dreamers, rebels, and skeptics.   Zamyatin was a heretic, a dreamer, and a rebel. WE is a worthy monument to a person who believed that the individual was more important than the state without regard to whether that state had `all life's answers'.  WE should be enjoyed by anyone who has read and liked H.G. Wells (who influenced Zamyatin), Huxly, or Orwell.  This is a book worth reading.	2005-08-04
US	52068296	R1Q1UEIOYNO7PU	0393051552	934854651	Lavoisier in the Year One: The Birth of a New Science in an Age of Revolution (Great Discoveries)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	When revolutions collide	3  stars. <br /> <br />The Englishman Edmund Burke, one of the most outspoken critics of the French Revolution, once said that in revolutionary France \\"learning will be cast into the mire and trodden down under the hoofs of a swinish multitude.\\"  The death by guillotine of Antoine Lavoisier, one of the founders of modern chemistry, during the revolution's Reign of Terror speaks to Burke's pessimistic prophecy.  Lavoisier and his fate is the subject of Madison Smart Bell's compact (186 pages) but informed, \\"Lavoisier in the Year One: The Birth of a New Science in an Age of Revolution.\\"  Despite some flaws I think the book is worth reading. <br /> <br />The first three quarters of the book is a straight forward, condensed biography of Lavoisier.  Although brought up in a comfortable environment Lavoisier managed to accumulate great wealth in a very short period of time.  Although a student of law, Lavoisier developed a great interest in science and thereafter dedicated his life to his business activities and to expanding his knowledge of the physical world. He quickly focused his greatest efforts and achieved astonishing results in the realm of what we now know as chemistry.  In particular, after repeated experiments with equipment he largely designed and built, Lavoisier identified the element of oxygen, which he identified as le principe oxygine.  Perhaps more importantly he developed methods for scientific investigation and a particular, methodological language for describing the results of the elements he identified.  This language, or nomenclature, was set out in the first periodic table, or Table of Chemical Nomenclature as it was then known. <br /> <br />The revolutionary nature of Lavoisier's work is set out well by Bell.  Bell discusses alchemy, the voodoo like practice that tried to convert base elements to gold, as a forerunner of chemistry. By the 18th century alchemy was beginning to evolve. It lost some of its mystical nature. Some historians of sciencerefer to the period leading up to Lavoisier as \\"chymistry\\".  Lavoisier was the bridge that turned chymistry into chemistry.  Bell spends a good deal of time, to good effect, describing how Lavoisier applied to the more rigorous principles of mathematics to his own efforts. <br /> <br />Bell also does a good job in setting out the importance of Lavoisier's focus on addressing narrow questions rather than seeking to find a universal solution for the world and its constituent parts. Bell describes Isaac Newton and Newton's view that the laws of Newtonian physics were originally god-given. Newton saw himself as a discoverer of divine properties installed by god in the natural world.  This was dramatically different from Lavoisier's approach and Bell concludes thusly: \\"Lavoisier, though impressed by Newton and influenced by the logical rigor of Newtonian physics, would begin to deconstruct this holistic vision of the universe by concentrating much more narrowly on its component parts.\\"  <br /> <br />The remainder of the book describes Lavoisier's ultimately unsuccessful efforts to navigate safely through the dangerous political currents that made up the French Revolution.  Lavoisier welcomed the Revolution but who hoped that it would end in a political system similar to that established by the young United States. But his wealth and standing as an intellectual ultimately brought him down once the Reign of Terror took hold.  The great irony of Lavoisier's life and death may be seen in the symbolism of his death.  Here was someone whose experiments showed that flames burned brighter when fed oxygen and who died when the oxygen feeding the French Revolution created flames of terror that consumed all those who got in its way. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, the two sections of the book do not seem to mesh as well as they could have.  This latter section seems a bit too separate and distinct from the scientific and biographic discussion that preceded it.  In other words, I foundthe bright line between the two sections a bit jarring. For me, the sections on Lavoisier's scientific life and his creation of a language that facilitated scientific advancement were the highlights.  The discussion on the Reign of Terror and Lavoisier's demise seemed a bit rushed and disjointed.  Hence, I would actually give this book 3 and  stars rather than four if the rating system permitted it.  Nevertheless, I found the book enlightening and entertaining. <br />	2005-08-01
US	52068296	R3PW0B2E8P8A5V	0142437891	414107033	A Universal History of Iniquity (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	"Corrupt are they, and have done abominable iniquity	there is none that doeth good.\\" <br /> <br />Jorge Luis Borges is thought by many to be the 20th century's greatest Spanish-language writer.  Borges was a poet, essayist and short story writer. Although born in Argentina in 1899, Borges spent most of his early years in Europe until his family returned to Buenos Aires in 1921. \\"A Universal History of Iniquity\\", originally published as \\"A Universal History of Infamy\\" was published in 1935. The stories represent a collection of stories originally published in the Argentine newspaper Critica between 1933 and 1934.  The stories were a huge success for the newspaper and established Borges as a writer of the first rank in Argentina. <br /> <br />Each of the stories in Universal History of Iniquity was designed by Borges to give his newspaper readers a small glimpse of the evil that men (and sometimes women) do.  They vary from slave owning states in the pre-U.S. Civil War south in \\"The Cruel Redeemer Lazarus Morell\\", to the China Seas in \\"The Widow Ching - Pirate\\", to feudal Japan in \\"The Uncivil Teacher of Court Etiquette Kotsuke no Suke\\", Turkistan in \\"Hakim, the Masked Dyer of Merv\\" and the mean streets of Buenos Aires in \\"Man on Pink Corner\\".  Borges acknowledges that these stories were all loosely based on little known historical treatises, the Arabian Nights, and other pieces of fiction.  Lazarus Morell was clearly an homage to Mark Twain's Mississippi River stories. <br /> <br />Although this is Borges earliest work one can already see the creative, almost whimsical approach he takes to the art of telling a story.  He constantly throws the reader off balance and engages in little acts of mis-direction, perhaps starting a story by telling the reader he will not set out the facts behind a story and then proceed to do just that. In the Preface to the First Edition, Borges writes that certain techniques are \\"overly used: mismatched lists, abrupt transitions, the reduction of a person's life to two or three scenes.\\"  While these are certainly valid self-criticisms the reader should remember, as Borges was no doubt aware, that these stories were written for publication in newspapers with severe word limitations.  I thought the condensed nature of the stories heightened their impact and think that perhaps Borges was engaging in yet another act of misdirection.     <br /> <br />I came to this book after reading Danilo Kis' \\"A Tomb for Boris Davidovich\\". The structure and theme of Tomb for Boris Davidovich was intended by Kis to be part of a literary polemic between Kis and Borges, specifically concerning the title of Borge's Universal History of Iniquity. Kis seven stories all involved iniquities performed by those involved in the Stalinist purges of the 1930s, a horror that Kis felt made Borges' iniquities look quaint by comparison. Kis asserted that the universal infamies related by Borges were those of gangsters, pirates and highwaymen. Kis argues that as far as infamy was concerned, \\"infamy is when in the name of the idea of a better world for which whole generations have perished, in the name of a humanistic idea, you build camps and destroy both people and their most intimate drams of a better world.\\" Now that I have read both books I think this may be something of an apple and oranges comparison.  Nevertheless, reading one book enhanced the experience I got from reading the other.  If the reader likes Borges' stories they might also enjoy Kis. <br /> <br />I think \\"A Universal History of Iniquity\\" is a wonderful entry point for anyone wishing to discover the work of a wonderful, compelling writer. <br />	2005-07-27
US	52068296	R8R9QELJBF7YJ	0375726713	976407740	A Coffin for Dimitrios	Books	5	143	145	N	N	"It is not who fired the shot	but who paid for the bullet.\\"    Compact, amusingly cynical little sentences such as the above bubble up throughout Eric Ambler's \\"A Coffin for Dimitrios\\" and, in fact, throughout most of Ambler's books.  That is just one reason why Ambler's books are so enjoyable and have held up so well over time.     For those not familiar with his work, Ambler was to the modern British spy novel what Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett were to the American detective novel.  Ambler transformed the spy novel from a simplistic black and white world of perfect good guys versus nefarious bad guys into a far more realistic world where sometimes the difference between good and evil is not all that great.      Typically, Ambler would take an unassuming, unsuspecting spectator and immerse him in a world of mystery and intrigue in pre-World War II Europe.  The result was a series of highly entertaining and satisfying books that many believe set the stage for the likes of le Carre, Deighton, and, most recently, Alan Furst. A Coffin for Dimitrios was one of Ambler's best known works.  (It was made into a movie starring Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet.) It is a very entertaining read.    The plot is relatively easy to follow. Charles Lattimer is a British University professor who retired from academia once he discovered that writing mass market detective stories was far more lucrative. While on holiday in Istanbul he makes the acquaintance of a Turkish police inspector who is an admirer of Lattimer's work. Lattimer is invited to the policeman's office where he is provided with ideas for a book the police officer is writing. While there he is invited to join the officer in viewing the body of a master criminal, Dimitrios, who has just been fished out of the Bosporus.  Lattimer, fascinated by sketchy but lurid details of Dimitrios criminal career, decides to trace Dimitrios steps in the hopes that he will obtain new material for future detective stories.  Lattimer travels from Turkey to Greece, Bulgaria, Switzerland and France in search of background information.  Of course, anyone seeking such information in the corridors of the criminal underworld immediately becomes the object of attention, some of it quite dangerous.  The story of Dimitrios' life is peeled away like an onion.  Bits of information are revealed at each stop.  Lattimer discovers that Dimitrios' actions sometimes had a sinister political connection.  As the novel reaches its climax the final bits of information needed to complete the puzzle that is Dimitrios are revealed.      A Coffin For Dimitrios made for an excellent read.  Some readers may find it a bit quaint. Some may find Ambler's prose a bit old-fashioned.  But when one considers that Ambler's books were written close to 70 years ago I don't think it particularly fair to harp overly much on a writing or prose-style that doesn't quite match that of a le Carre or Deighton.  A Coffin for Dimitrios and most of the rest of Ambler's works have been re-issued in new paperback editions by Vintage Crime/Black Lizard Press.  They are in print and readily available.  I don't hesitate to recommend A Coffin for Dimitrios or any of Ambler's works. They are perfect for leisure reading whether at the beach or elsewhere.  Last, if you have enjoyed the works of John le Carre, Deighton, Ian Fleming, or Alan Furst, it is worth a trip to Ambler to see one of their literary ancestors in action.	2005-07-22
US	52068296	R1MOUENQOZBZEL	1594200548	246801369	Freddy and Fredericka	Books	4	97	105	N	N	The Man Who Would Be King	\\"Though it is hard to be a king, it is harder yet to become one.\\"  Thus begins Mark Helprin's hilariously wacky fantasy \\"Freddy and Fredericka\\".    Freddy is the Prince of Wales. In private he is a fit and intelligent man approaching middle age who tests his physical skills by hiking across the wilds of Scotland with nothing but a backpack.  He is thoughtful and well read.  In public, he is ungainly and misunderstood. His rather large ears and his penchant for making malaprop-riddled public utterances make him a laughingstock to the British public. His wife, Fredericka can do no wrong. Considerably younger than Freddy, she is beautiful but empty-headed. Despite that, no matter what she says, no matter how vacuous or wrong headed the public eats it up.  Freddy's mother, Queen Phillipa, abhors Fredericka. The Queen's relationship with her daughter-in-law is dysfunctional to say the least. Freddy has a sizzling relationship with an older yet extraordinarily passionate woman, the aptly named Lady Phoebe Boylinghotte. Freddy and Fredericka's relationship is strained to say the least.  Sound familiar yet?  As the story opens, Freddy is in the Scottish Highlands trying unsuccessfully to get a falcon to fly at his command.  This is no trivial matter. The falcon will only fly for someone with the qualities to be a king and no Prince of Wales can succeed to the throne unless can make the falcon fly.  Freddy has failed in his first three attempts.  He has one more to go.    After a series of hilariously funny misadventures that makes Freddy look like an insane clod a mysterious stranger, a wizard in fact, is summoned to Buckingham Palace in what can only be described as a royal intervention.  Mr. Neil, who claims to be old enough to have first-hand knowledge of the earliest Kings of England, with the blessing of the Queen, commands Freddy and Fredericka to go out on a quest to prove they are worthy of the throne. Their task is to reconquer America.  To that end they are stripped of their clothes and money and flown to the States in a military aircraft. They parachute out of the aircraft and find themselves in \\"Hohokus\\" a wet swampy area just west of New York City. Their subsequent journey takes them through the United States. They hop rail cars, do manual labor and see a side of the U.S. and the world that no royal has ever seen. As they discover America they also discover themselves and, more importantly each other. By this point it becomes clear that any similarity between Helprin's fantasy Prince and Princess and any real royal persons is superficial; just a jumping off point for an exploration of what lies below the surface of those we only know through the media.  It is also a nice jumping off point for what lies below the surface of all of us.  Helprin does this without ever slowing down the pace or humor of the story.  A mere description of the outline cannot describe the enjoyment I derived from reading the book.  Helprin's writing style is funny and frenetic.  It is also thoughtful.  Some readers may not find the Dickensian names Helprin gives some of his characters particularly witty. I found them endearing.  Some may think that some of the humorous set piece fall flat.  For example, the linguistic confusion Freddy experiences in discussing the relationship between one Dewey Knott and his uncle Arwe Knott  revisits Abbott and Costello's classic \\"Who's on First\\"  routine. Some may think it derivative.  I thought it worked very well. Some of humor did not work for me but  that is only a minor complaint when viewing the book as a whole.  The most enjoyable part of Freddy and Fredericka was the fact that the book evoked so many different reference points for me.  The snappy one liners, word-play  and somewhat less than dry British wit that marks the first portion of the book seemed one part Yes Minister (a Britcom that poked fun at British politicians and civil servants), one part Dickens and one part Monty Python.  Freddy and Freddy's journeys through the U.S. to reconquer America contained some (distant) echoes of Mark Twain; the old movie Sullivan's Travels (a pampered Hollywood movie star goes on a quest through Depression-era America in the guise of a hobo), and Kipling's The Man Who Would be King.    All in all, despite a couple of flaws and false notes, I enjoyed Freddy and Fredericka immensely. The book turns reflective as it nears its conclusion but I think the zany adventures that precede the conclusion renders the change in tone and pace more effective.    Shakespeare's Richard II demanded people to \\"let us sit upon the ground and tell sad stories of the death of kings!\\"  In the case of Freddy and Fredericka you won't go wrong if you sit upon the ground (or preferably the beach) and read this zanily-realized fantasy of the birth of a king.	2005-07-14
US	52068296	R275TRTU7DRTTE	0802714439	43473074	Call for the Dead	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Introducing . . . George Smiley	John le Carre's _Call for the Dead_ is the book that introduced the brooding, conflicted British secret agent, George Smiley.  Call for the Dead was first published in 1961.  It is one of le Carre's shorter books but it is packed with all the elements that have made le Carre's subsequent Smiley novels so special: the ability to portray exquisitely the external and internal life of his characters; the ability to make the reader feel he/she is walking the dark and dangerous streets of London, Paris, Berlin, and points east; all the while writing a suspenseful novel. <br /> <br />The book begins with a chapter entitled \\"A Brief History of George Smiley\\".  In one brief chapter we are presented with an almost fully-formed Smiley.  In short order Smiley's university career, his discreet introduction into British Intelligence and his years in Germany in the 1930s and the early stages of World War II are set out.  So too is his tortured marriage to the breathtakingly beautiful yet famously unfaithful Lady Ann.  The first chapter ends as Smiley arrives by taxi to his office at 2:00 a.m.  <br /> <br />The plot is straightforward.  Agent Samuel Fennan has been found dead, the product of a suicide if one is to believe the signed suicide note found by his widow, Elsa Fennan. Fennan had been interviewed by the service after a typed note denouncing him for being a communist at University was sent in.  Although he was assured at the end of the interview that his name would soon be cleared, Fennan's suicide note claims that his life and career were ruined by the investigation.  Because Smiley was the agent that conducted the interview, and because of the internal politics of the agency (one of le Carre's specialties), Smiley was chosen to conduct the post-suicide investigation and file a report. It quickly becomes apparent to Smiley that the suicide is not quite as clear cut as it appears.   <br /> <br />Smiley is embroiled quickly in intrigue, death, and the world of spy and counter-spy.  He is presented with a jig-saw puzzle of characters including Ella Fennan, a German named Dieter (who worked for Smiley in the War), and a shifty London petty criminal.  The story races to a conclusion.  As with most of le Carre's work the resolution of the story is not what one would call a Hollywood ending. <br /> <br />The value of the book lies as much, if not more, in the introduction of Smiley and other recurring characters such as Mundt, the East German intelligence operative, and Peter Guillam.  Call for the Dead is a small book in the sense that it comes in at about150 pages.  But it sets the stage for virtually all of the rest of le Carre's body of work starting with the Spy Who Came in from the Cold and through the entire Smiley series.  Call for the Dead is a great place to start for someone coming to le Carre for the first time or for anyone wishing to dip their toes into le Carre again.  He is one of the few writers of this or any other genre worth going back for seconds, or thirds. <br /> <br />This edition contains a brief but valuable introduction by the marvelous P.D. James. <br />	2005-07-10
US	52068296	R2OPZ1N4ERT4XR	039915275X	455930514	Captain Alatriste	Books	4	75	79	N	N	Monsieur D'Artagnan, meet Capitan Alatriste	I picked up Arturo Perez-Reverte's \\"Captain Alatriste\\" recently.  I put another recent book down while I read the first couple of chapters, just to get a feel for the book.  I ended up reading \\"Captain Alatriste\\" in virtually one sitting.  The other book was placed on hold.  I consider that high praise.   <br /> <br />Captain Alatriste is set in Madrid, Spain in the early 17th-century.  The Spanish Armada had already been defeated but Spain was still the world's greatest superpower.  The Captain is recently home from fighting in Flanders in the Dutch war for independence from Spain.  He has come home because of a serious wound that has left him unfit for the military.  However, and like many of veterans of Spain's wars, he is fit enough to eke out a meager living as something of a gun, or sword, or knife for hire.  He collects debts, avenges the honor of cuckolded husbands, and even kills for the right price.  He is very good at his job.   <br /> <br />The story is narrated by Inigo, the son of one of Alatriste's friends who died in combat while fighting alongside Alatriste. Inigo is sent to Madrid by his impoverished mother, to work for Alatriste.  As Inigo notes with some irony, if the mother did not know how the Captain earned a living.  The style of the narration is reminiscent of Watson's narratives in Sherlock Holmes.   <br /> <br />The plot is rather simple and evokes memories of the plot lines of the swashbuckling books of yesteryear.  Alatriste is summoned to meet with some mysterious, yet clearly influential people. He is hired to waylay two young British civilians on their way to Madrid.  He receives conflicting information about the extent of the damage he is to inflict on the young men. Partnered up with a sinister accomplice the assault does not go according to plan.  Alatriste is swiftly embroiled in the political intrigues that swirl around the Spanish royal court. Danger lurks everywhere. It would reveal too much of the plot to say much more but events careen rapidly until they reach the inevitable climax. <br /> <br />I think it fair to say that Reverte has not invented a new genre.  Reverte honors the basic outlines of the romantic swashbuckling novel.  A man of honor (and yes there is honor amongst hired guns) gets swept up, and almost swept awa in a sea of political intrigue.  The corruption of the court and its courtiers is a given.  In essence, the individual takes on a society that is morally bankrupt or rapidly on its way there.  So although there is nothing uniquely new here, I think it also fair to say that Reverte does justice to the genre.  The story is well written and fresh even if it follows a tried and true formula.  Reverte does an excellent job making the streets, and street-life of 17th-century Madrid seem realistic.  Reverte also has a flair for describing the changing status of Spain as a world power.  He writes with clarity, of Spain's status (even after the Armada) or image to the world as the world's great superpower while conveying with great skills the internal corruption and decay that would soon topple Spain from those exalted heights.   <br /> <br />Margaret Sayers Peden's translation seems very skillful.  Captain Alatriste is filled with bits of poetry from Alatriste's group of friends.  Poetry may be the most difficult work to translate while retaining the power of the words used in the original language. Yet the poems as translated by Pedens retain a certain gracefulness that is often lost in translation.  This makes the book that much more satisfying to someone reading Reverte in English. <br /> <br />Captain Alatriste is a fast-paced enjoyable romp that can trace its literary heritage back to the likes Scaramouche, Captain Blood, and the Three Musketeers.  It is a perfect book to read on a summer afternoon (or a winter evening for that matter). <br />	2005-07-05
US	52068296	R15GWPS9SSOTVE	0801442117	132003646	Blood on the Snow: The Killing of Olof Palme	Books	4	14	14	N	N	The 89 Steps: Stairway to an Unsolved Murder	*** & 1/2 stars    On February 28, 1986, Olof Palme, the Prime Minister of Sweden was gunned down in the streets of Stockholm while walking home, without any security details, from the movies.  According to virtually all accounts Palme and his wife, Lisbet, were accosted by a gunman outside a paint store adjacent to an alley. Shortly thereafter shots were fired, Palme lay mortally wounded on the street and the gunman escaped down an alley and then up 89 steps leading to a road on a hill above the alley.    When I heard the news here in the United States I was surprised, to say the least.  As a product of the `60s I think I incorrectly associated assassinations (JFK, Martin Luther King, and Robert Kennedy) and attempted assassinations (Gerald Ford and Ronald Reagan) of political leaders as something that was unique to the United States.  My surprise was nothing compared to the horror and shock of the people of Sweden.  The murder has never been solved.  Failed prosecutions haunted the Swedish police and exasperated the people of Sweden.  Conspiracy theories and conspiracy theorists have grown and flourished and continue to thrive almost twenty years after the assassination.  Jan Bondeson's interesting and entertaining \\"Blood on the Snow: The Killing of Olof Palme\\" provides a comprehensive examination of the murder and its aftermath.    Bondeson begins the book with a brief overview of the life and political career of Olof Palme.  Palme, although born to a wealthy upper-class family, became active in what may best be described as middle of the road socialists ruling party: the Social Democratic Party.  He quickly rose through the ranks until achieving the leadership of the Social Democrats, who had dominated Swedish politics for at least two decades, and acceding to the position of Prime Minister in 1969.  He served as Prime Minister until 1976 when he was voted out of power. The Social Democrats returned to power in 1982 and Palme returned as Prime Minister until hisdeath. Palme was a very well known player on the world stage.  His political views, both foreign and domestic, were somewhat controversial and those views left him with no shortage of enemies.  As Bondeson points out he was particularly loathed by Sweden's upper class conservatives who view him as a traitor to his class.  This loathing seems reminiscent of the hatred many old-money conservatives had for Franklin Roosevelt during the depression.    Bondeson describes the shooting and the varying versions of it, in great detail.  He pays particular attention to what may best be described as a horribly slow and response to the shooting and the spectacularly incompetent investigation by Sweden's police force.  Bondeson is not alone in his view that the incompetence and lack of leadership from politically appointed police commanders is primarily responsible for the fact that the matters remain unsolved today.     Bondeson describes the initial focus on Kurdish terrorists and the shift to a focus on an alcoholic career criminal with violent tendencies.  A botched trial resulted in the reversal of this criminal's conviction of the crime.  Bondeson then goes on to describe, and deconstruct, the various conspiracy theories that have grown around the case.  Palme conspiracy groups, popularly known as Palme Detectives, rivaled those of the JFK conspiracy groups.    Bondeson conclude the book by setting out his own theory of the case.  He acknowledges that this might cast him as yet another Palme Detective but his theory is well thought out and seems supported by the evidence.   Since this story plays out like a mystery novel I won't divulge Bondeson's theory here.     As noted above, I found Bondeson's account both interesting and informative.  I would have given this book 4-stars but for some glaring inadequacies in the editing of this book.  As I made my way through the book I came across what I consider a sizable number of errors of grammar and syntax. Certain sentences seemed tortuously constructed and a couple made little or no sense.  It gave me the impression that the manuscript was not subject to a through review by the editors and that the publisher (Cornell University Press) seemed content to publish a draft.  This is not the fault of the author. Even the most accomplished author needs someone to review and edit his/her work with a cold eye for glitches of this sort.  I think Mr. Bondeson's work deserved better treatment.      This minor complaint (which is why I think of this as a 3 and 1/2 star rather than 4 star book) does not detract from the fact that Blood on the Snow is a comprehensive examination of a landmark socio-political event in Swedish and European history that has not received extensive coverage here in the United States.  I enjoyed reading Blood on the Snow and recommend it to anyone interested in an entertaining and thought provoking piece of popular history that has not received the attention here that it deserves.	2005-06-30
US	52068296	R2BYAIBVLUIIP1	0151011400	906795518	The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana	Books	5	119	123	N	N	"Memory and forgetfulness are as life and death	to one another.  To live is to remember and to remember is to live. To die is to forget and to forget is to die.\\" Samuel Butler    I approached Umberto Eco's new novel, The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana, with some trepidation.  I have sometime found Eco's work to be a bit difficult to get through.  It became very apparent that I would have no such problems with this book.  The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana was not only a very accessible book but, more importantly, it was at once both immensely enjoyable and thought-provoking.    Before turning to the book itself, I found it interesting that the book is filled with illustrations.  Throughout the book World War Two propaganda posters, newspaper clippings, comic book pages, and ads from Italian fashion magazines are printed alongside the text.  Some might assert that Eco's reliance on illustrations may detract from the text or represent something of a gimmick.  I think the illustrations are visually stunning and serve to recreate the social and political atmosphere of Italy in the 1930s and 1940s during which time much of the book takes place. They add a visual punch to the thoughts of Eco's narrator.    The book opens with Giambattista Boldoni, a 59-year old rare book dealer, awaking from a light coma in a hospital after suffering a stroke.  It is determined quickly that Boldoni, known to his friends and family since childhood as Yambo, is suffering from partial amnesia.  Although he has a vivid memory of social and cultural events through his life he has no memory of anything relating to his personal life. The first chapter is a classic of pop-culture allusions and metaphors.  Yambo's sentences come out in stream of consciousness fashion with no personal context at all. Yambo's sentences consist of a series of bits of quotations from Poe, Conan-Doyle, Robert Lewis Stevenson, songs, ad slogans and other reference that I could spend weeks trying to identify. The rest of the book, like Eco's Name of the Rose of TheIsland of the Day before is something of a detective story. Yambo turns sleuth and sets out to discover who he is and how he came to be him.    Yambo and his wife agree in short order that this mystery would best be solved if Yambo moves back to his family's country home were Yambo spent most of his childhood.  He arrives to find that most of his possessions and those of his parents and grandparents are stored in the attic or in various locations throughout the house.  He begins opening boxes to find old phonograph records, school notebooks, photographs, Italian and American comic books and newspaper clippings dating back to the 30s and 40s'.  Some of these items ignite a little spark in his head (as Eco puts it) but nothing really serves to restore his memories.  Those little sparks seem futile and frustrate Yambo, like a butane cigarette lighter on a windy day must frustrate a smoker just dying to light up a smoke.  Nevertheless, Yambo makes some progress.  About halfway through the book Eco introduces a dramatic twist in the plot (which will not be divulged) that changes the nature of Yambo's quest.     The second half of the book is devoted to Yambo's examination of his life as he now remembers it and the meaning of his quest for his identity.  Answer to questions raised in the first half of the book, such as Yambo's strange attraction for foggy days, are explained.  The tone of the narrative in this half of the book is quite different from the narrative in the first.  As more information is revealed to Yambo, and to the reader, the focus turns not just to Yambo's quest for memory but the importance of memory in one's life.  At the same time, what we choose to forget is sometimes just as important to the structure of our lives as that which we choose to remember.     The intricate thought processes of Yambo as he seeks to recreate his life are set out beautifully by Eco.  It is hard to describe the impact of Eco's writing except to refer back to the sentences that Samuel Butler wrote after those lines that started this review:    \\"Everything is so much involved in and is so much a process of its opposite that, as it is almost fair to call death a process of life and life a process of death, so it is to call memory a process of forgetting and forgetting a process of remembering.\\"   Memory and forgetfulness are as life and death to one another, for Yambo and, through Yambo's thoughts, to the reader.    The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana is well worth reading.  L. Fleisig	2005-06-20
US	52068296	R2PIEJUE0ARC7X	1564782735	443173635	Tomb for Boris Davidovich (Eastern European Studies (Paperback))	Books	5	36	36	N	Y	If a man does not erect in this age his own tomb ere he dies	he shall live no longer in monument than the bell rings and the widow weeps.  Shakespeare, Much Ado About Nothing.    Danilo Kis was born in Serbia in 1935 to a Hungarian Jewish father and Montenegrin Serbian mother.  His father perished in the Holocaust.  Kis died of cancer in 1990 at age 55.  As noted in an excellent introduction by the writer, poet and Nobel Prize winner Joseph Brodsky, publication of A Tomb for Boris Davidovich in Yugoslavia in 1976 created a firestorm in Belgrade similar to the controversies that flared up when Solzhenitsyn's One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich was published in the USSR during Khrushchev's thaw.  The book was savaged by the Yugoslav writer's union.  As Brodsky notes in one memorable line, \\"there are several topics an author may deal with which can jeopardize his well-being, and history is one of them\\".  The controversy, standing alone, may justify reading Tomb for Boris Davidovich.  I am pleased to report that these stories are so well-constructed and laden with meaning that it would be worth reading even if its publication had been greeted with equanimity by the apparatchiks that manned the Yugoslav writers' union.    The seven stories that comprise Danilo Kis' A Tomb for Boris Davidovich have a few elements in common.  Each involves a protagonist from a different country, Ireland, Hungary, Rumania, Poland, or Russia.  In effect, each protagonist comes from a nation or a group that participated in the Comintern (the Soviet led Third International that coordinated the worldwide activities of various Communist organizations established by Lenin in 1919).  Each gets swept up in the machinations that swirled around the Soviet Union's Great Terror of the 1930s.  Each ends up either dead or in the Gulag.      With one exception each of the stories takes places in the 1930s.  The one exception, \\"Dogs and Books\\" is set in 14th-century France at the time of the inquisition.  Although that story seems out of place, when one comparesthe structure and fact-pattern of this story to the title story of the book one can only be struck by the obvious similarities between the methods and mind-set of the inquisitors and the methods and mind-sets of the interrogator in the story Tomb for Boris Davidovich.    The title story is also jarring because it contains many of the same themes set out in Arthur Koestler's Darkness at Noon.  In the context of a short story, the brevity and terseness of Kis' language makes the telling of the story considerably more powerful in some respects than Koestler's novel length telling of a similar tale.  Even if a reader feels that Kis' story does not quite match Koestler's, the fact that the comparison can be made with a straight face is high praise.    Last, Tomb for Boris Davidovich should be of great interest to anyone interested in the work of the great Argentine writer, Jorge Luis Borges.   The structure and theme of Tomb for Boris Davidovich was intended by Kis to be part of a literary polemic between Kis and Borges, specifically concerning the title of Borge's Universal History of Infamy.  Kis discusses this literary exchange in one of his essays. In it he asserted that the universal infamies related by Borges were those of gangsters, pirates and highwaymen.  Kis argues that as far as infamy was concerned, \\"infamy is when in the name of the idea of a better world for which whole generations have perished, in the name of a humanistic idea, you build camps and destroy both people and their most intimate drams of a better world.\\"      In many respects, Tomb for Boris Davidovich may be considered as an exquisitely crafted attempt to construct a literary monument to those who died (perhaps naively and foolishly) and for whom bells never rang and for whom the widows have long since stopped weeping.      L.Fleisig	2005-06-17
US	52068296	R3PYW6MDZZGFRX	0140186247	972100923	This Way for the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	280	289	N	Y	A remembrance of things past	Imre Kertesz, a concentration camp survivor and winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature often asks in his work: is there life after Auschwitz?  Can one live with the ineffable guilt that accompanies survival against all odds?  For Borowski the answer appears to be no.  On July 1, 1951, at age 29, Tadeusz Borowski opened a gas valve, put his head in an oven and took his life.  There is no small amount of irony in the fact that after escaping the gas of Auschwitz and Dachau Borowski would end his life in this manner.    Borowski was born in Soviet occupied Ukraine to Polish parents.  His father was sent to a Soviet work camp, building the White Sea Canal, but was released in an exchange of prisoners with Poland.  Upon his father's release, the family settled in Warsaw.  Although not Jewish, Borowski was arrested by the Gestapo in 1943 for subversive activities when he was caught surreptitiously printing his own poetry.  He spent the rest of the war in Auschwitz and Dachau.  The first piece of luck or fate that saved his life was the decision by the Nazis to stop exterminating non-Jewish prisoners two weeks before Borowski's arrival.    The series of stories contained in This Way for the Gas are all written in the voice of one prisoner, Tadeusz.  Not unexpectedly the stories appear to be loosely autobiographical.  Borowski's writing is not overloaded with emotion.  It is descriptive and matter of fact.  The day-to-day tone of the writing, writing that describes death and deprivation as normal events adds an emotional impact to the stories.    For example, in one scene the prisoner Tadeusz describes a football (soccer) match played by the prisoners.  He served as goalkeeper and described his walk to retrieve a ball that was kicked way over the net.  As he walks to the ball he sees through the barbed wire fence truckloads of prisoners being herded through the gas chambers.  Later in the match he has to retrieve another ball.  As he returns to the goal he matter-of-factly estimates that 5,000 prisoners have been gassed between his retrieving the two balls.  It is powerful storytelling.    Equally compelling are stories that describe the numerous decisions Tadeusz and his fellow prisoners made every day in order to survive.  Taking clothes from the luggage of prisoners destined for the gas in order to trade the clothes for bread. People fight for survival and despite a certain ethical code amongst prisoners (there are some things even the dying won't do) they all know that the steps they take to survive often means that someone else will perish.  Borowski does not flinch from subjecting his alter ego and his fellow prisoners to a critical self-examination of these choices.  Both Borowski and his narrator survived Auschwitz.  But as you can see from these flawlessly executed stories the question of how much of one's humanity remains is a difficult question.  The emaciated bodies of the survivors could often be repaired.  But the sense of a moral inner flame extinguished by the acts required for survival is not so easily relit.  The reader cannot help but wonder whether the lingering impact of those choices in Auschwitz somehow invariably led to the choice he made in July 1951.    Tadeusz Borowski's \\"This Way for the Gas Ladies and Gentlemen\\" is a wonderful example of how fiction can portray the horrors of genocide with an emotional clarity that non-fiction sometimes lacks.  This book ranks with Varlam Shalamov's Kolyma Tales (the Gulag) as a monumental piece of remembrance presented in the form of short stories, vignettes of life in a place with little mercy and less humanity.  They each stand as stark testimony, even though they are works of literature and not history, to the \\"evil that men do.\\"    Upon finishing \\"This Way for the Gas Ladies and Gentleman\\" I found myself wanting to repeat the words \\"never again\\" as a refrain.  Yet upon reflection one looks at subsequent world events: Bosnia, Cambodia, Chechnya, Sudan, and Rwanda (among others) and asks whether humanity makes the phrase \\"never again\\" a futile gesture.  It has been said that those who do not remember the past are doomed to repeat it.  Anyone who reads Borowski's testament will long remember the prose that, hopefully, will keep us from forgetting.  L. Fleisig	2005-06-13
US	52068296	R1RGUFPE26L8UQ	0300107803	90387246	What Stalin Knew: The Enigma of Barbarossa	Books	4	64	72	N	N	Arrogance rides triumphantly through the gates	barely glancing at the old woman about to cut the rope and spring shut the trap. This aphorism summarizes neatly the trap Hitler laid for Stalin in the days prior to the German invasion of the USSR.    Lord Acton once said that absolute power corrupts absolutely. One of the chief lessons to be learned from David Murphy's \\"What Stalin Knew: The Enigma of Barbarossa\\" is that absolute power breeds an absolute arrogance that erodes the critical faculties that facilitated the despot's acquisition of power in the first place.    It is commonly known that the German invasion of the Soviet Union in the pre-dawn hours of June 22, 1941 (Operation Barbarossa) took Stalin completely by surprise.  The Soviet air force in the western zone was destroyed on the ground.  The Soviet army, from Memel on the Baltic Sea to Odessa along the Black Sea was engulfed in fear and chaos almost from the start.  Millions of Soviet soldiers were killed or taken prisoner and hundred of miles of Soviet territory was overrun in the first ten days of the war.  As Murphy points out, the tragedy of Barbarossa for the USSR was not just the horrible loss of life and territory but the fact that these losses could have been lessened dramatically (although probably not eliminated) but for the supreme arrogance of the Soviet's supreme leader.      Murphy fleshes this general information out with an exhaustive amount of additional information gleaned from recently opened Soviet archives.  Murphy was a career intelligence officer with the CIA and served as its head of Soviet operations before retiring from the intelligence services.  As a result of his experience, Murphy is able to cast a practiced eye on the USSR's intelligence gathering operations in the years before the invasion.     Murphy begins with a brief overview of some critical events prior to the invasion, specifically the Stalin/Hitler pact and the brief Russo-Finnish winter war in 1939/1940.  The first extended the USSR's territory hundred of miles westward.  The USSR never managed to move its old defensive fortifications west and left the old fortifications to crumble. The Soviet army suffered horrible losses to the undermanned Finnish army before finally prevailing.  Each event only served to confirm Hitler's notion that he could invade and defeat the USSR in a matter of weeks.    Murphy then proceeds to outline the extensive intelligence gathering information operations of the Soviet military (the RU) and the civilian security apparatus (the NKVD).  From cities across eastern and western Europe, from Japan, and the U.S. came reliable information indicating that Hitler had abandoned plans to invade Britain and had set in motion a plan to invade the USSR.  Taken together this cumulative evidence represents a stunning indictment of Stalin and his inner circle.  Stalin refused to believe any of this information.  Rather, he believed the German disinformation campaign designed to convince the USSR that Germany had no immediate plans to invade the USSR.   The centerpiece of this disinformation campaign was two (perhaps more) letters from Hitler to Stalin in which Hitler pledged on his honor as a head of state not to invade the USSR.  Stalin chose to believe Hitler rather than his own intelligence agencies.      The failure of Stalin to accept his intelligence reports were heightened by the fear he engendered amongst those responsible for providing him with critical information.  After the purges of the 1930s, including the elimination of the Red Army's entire officer corps, most of those closest to Stalin provided him only with information that had been filtered to support his own preconceived notion.  The story Murphy tells of two senior Soviet officers, Ivan Proskurov and Filipp Golikov sums things up nicely.  Proskurov was an effective, diligent intelligence officer who dared to give Stalin hard information without bending it to Stalin's views.  Golikov was something of a toady who served up information supporting the view that Hitler was ready to invade Britain.  Proskurov was purged and later executed.  Golikov was promoted.    As the book concludes it become clear that Stalin, in his arrogance, decided he could trust Hitler and as such any contrary information was disinformation.  As one Russian author once said, Hitler was the only man Stalin ever trusted and that gross error in judgment cost millions of Soviet lives.    Murphy's book is an excellent look at \\"what Stalin knew and when he knew it\\".  I recommend it for anyone with an interest in Soviet or military history.  L. Fleisig	2005-06-12
US	52068296	RCIDHTJAJZ3GX	0817309632	57749205	Tangled Loyalties: The Life and Times of Ilya Ehrenburg (Judaic Studies Series)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Ilya Ehrenburg and the Crime of Survival	If someone had submitted a manuscript based on Ilya Ehrenburg's life to a publisher it would have been tossed away as too unbelievable, even for fiction.  Ilya Ehrenburg joined the Bolsheviks as a young man but had broken with the party well before the Russian Revolution.  He was a childhood friend of Nikolai Bukharin and spent time with Leon Trotsky in Geneva.  While living in Paris before the revolution he was befriended by Lenin but the friendship ended when Ehrenburg mocked him in a satirical piece he had published.  He lived abroad for years, both before and after the Revolution, he spoke French and hobnobbed with Europe's literary intelligentsia.  He was Jewish.  Thousands of people in Stalin's USSR were purged or summarily executed for having just one of these characteristics. Millions were purged for less.  Yet Ehrenburg not only survived but prospered.  Joshua Rubenstein's \\"Tangled Loyalties: The Life and Times of Ilya Ehrenburg\\" does an excellent job of setting out the fascinating details of Ehrenburg's life and the many factors that `conspired' to keep Ehrenburg in the public eye and far away from the Gulag.    For those that survived the Holocaust the fact of survival is often an interior matter for the survivor, sometimes marked by remorse and guilt simply because one survived against all odds.  For those that survived the purges and executions of the Stalin era in the USSR, the fact of survival is often an exterior matter in which the outside world questions the means by which the survivor escaped unharmed.   The historian A.J.P. Taylor, in a review of Ilya Ehrenburg's Memoirs suggest that in \\"years of danger and crisis, it becomes almost a crime to survive.\\"  The fact of Ehrenburg's survival and the means by which he managed to survive is the central theme of Rubenstein's biography.    Rubenstein takes the reader through Ehrenburg's early years as a student revolutionary and his flirtation with the Bolsheviks.  The description of Ehrenburg's pre-revolutionary time in Paris and his initial contacts with Lenin and his cadres in exile is particularly interesting.  After the revolution, a revolution that Ehrenburg condemned, we see him changing his mind and becoming a staunch supporter of the regime after the Bolsheviks defeated the white army in the Civil War.  From there Ehrenburg's years in Paris the 1920s and 1930s where he became well known in artistic and literary circles are outlined very nicely.  Ehrenburg became the de facto ambassador of art and literature of the USSR.  In fact, it may very well have been Ehrenburg's rather exalted status in the west that protected him all those years.  From there we see Ehrenburg's increasing involvement in the anti-fascist movement culminating in his extensive reporting from Spain during the civil war.  Ehrenburg survived and prospered despite the fact that Stalin's purges often focused on people who had spent time abroad and who participated in the Civil War.  When WWII started Ehrenburg's fame increased as a result of his forceful and intelligent reporting for Red Star, the Red Army newspaper.  It was during the war that Ehrenburg, along with his colleague Vasily Grossman, began the compilation that became known as the Black Book of Soviet Jewry. The monumental Black Book may very well represent the most important work of Ehrenburg's life.     From the time the war ended and through his death in 1953, Stalin's anti-cosmopolitan campaign and his doctor's plot caused thousands of Jews, including many friends of Ehrenburg to be purged and sent to the Gulag.  Through it all, Ehrenburg continued to be published, not without some difficulty in the Soviet Union.   At the same time, Ehrenburg became one of the Soviet regime's greatest apologists.  As he had done in the 1930's Ehrenburg attacked western left-leaning intellectuals that deviated from the party line.  Throughout Stalin's rein and through Khrushchev's leadership Ehrenburg became perhaps the best known and most-intellectually well thought of defender of the Soviet regime.  It is for these actions that many find fault with Ehrenburg.     However, at the same time, and within the constraints of an oppressive regime where any untoward step could have severe repercussions, Rubenstein sets out those many instances where Ehrenburg went out of his way to help friends and fellow artists who had been arrested or could not get published.  Rubenstein takes pains to point out how many of those who had been imprisoned respected and were grateful for Ehrenburg's efforts on their behalf.       It is the portrayal of this conflict between Ehrenburg's arguably craven kow-towing to the Soviet regime and his efforts on behalf of his friends or fellow writers that make Rubenstein's work so interesting.  Rubenstein, and others, fall squarely on the side of absolving Ehrenburg of most of the responsibility for his acts.  Nevertheless he does not bludgeon the reader over the head with that opinion nor does he withhold information that might lead a reader to come to a different conclusion.      I tend to fall a bit onto the non-judgmental side of the ledger although not perhaps as fully as Rubenstein.  The deciding factor for me is the thought that Ehrenburg's severest critics seem to be those in the west who did not have to walk the deadly tightrope Ehrenburg walked for years.  Those that seem most accepting of Ehrenburg's behavior were those who lived and suffered during those years and appreciated Ehrenburg's efforts on their behalf.      Rubenstein's Tangled Loyalties is a fascinating look at the life of someone who spent a life making hard choices.  I recommend this to anyone interested in Soviet history and leave it up to the reader to determine whether Ehrenburg was guilty of the crime of survival.      L. Fleisig	2005-06-06
US	52068296	R388GT8XKEVKFV	0061059056	514374276	Hogfather (Discworld)	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Twas the night before Hogswatch	when all through the planet  Not a creature was stirring, except Susan Sto-Helit    Terry Pratchett's Discworld series has been marked by a series of hilarious (and thoughtful) parodies of life on our own planet. Pratchett takes a look at our own practices and customs and then filters them through the prism of a parallel universe known as Discworld.  He has done this to great effect with the newspaper business (The Truth), Hollywood (Moving Pictures), rock and roll (Soul Music), and religion (Small Gods). The hilarious differences between the `real' and Discworld versions always provide the reader with hours of amusement and insight.  Pratchett's treatment of the Santa Claus legend in Hogfather is no different.      Hogfather, Discworld's Santa is missing.  He has been kidnapped by Teatime one of the most vicious villains created by Pratchett.  Generally, the `bad guys' in Discworld have a number of amusing or redeeming qualities that help the reader see them as quirky, if bad.  Teatime has no redeeming qualities.  To that extent he seemed more similar to the villains of Neil Gaiman's Neverwhere (Croup and Vandemaar) than to the lovable rogues from the Guild of Assassins.      Well, DEATH comes to the rescue and decides to take on Hogfather's role as gift giver on Hogswatch Night, Discworld's Christmas.  DEATH is accompanied on this task by the ever faithful and ever grumbling Albert.  The passages in which Pratchett has DEATH making his rounds led by his team of boars shouting \\"on Tusker, on Snooter, on Gouger and Router\\" were hilarious.    Susan Sto-Helit, DEATH's granddaughter, was not at all pleased by this development.  Prodded by the Death of Rats and his translator sidekick, the Raven, Susan is soon reluctantly involved in her Grand-dad's attempts to fill in the gaps caused by Hogfather's disappearance.  It becomes apparent that the disappearance is all part of a grand plot by the scheming Auditors who, like all masters of evil have grand plans to end the universe as we know it.     As always, Pratchett keeps the story galloping along at a rip-roaring pace.  Susan meets troubles in a manner reminiscent of the Perils of Pauline.  Eventually we are faced with the climactic confrontation between DEATH and Teatime.  Pratchett always seems to find a clever way to bring his books to satisfactory conclusion.    One of the best parts of the book, for me, was Pratchett's portrayal of DEATH's apparent fondness for mortals despite the fact that his sole (soul?) purpose in life (death?) was to facilitate the earthly end of all our lives.  Pratchett's ability to imbue DEATH with such human characteristics without taking away from the other aspects of his immortal character is deeply moving to me.    All in all this was a very satisfying chapter in the Discworld series.   Given the night before Hogswatch feel of the book it is fitting to conclude this review as it began:    DEATH sprang to his sleigh, to his Boars gave a whistle,  And away they all flew like the down of a thistle.  But I heard DEATH exclaim, `ere he drove out of sight,  \\"Happy Hogswatch to all, and to all a good-night!\\"	2005-05-30
US	52068296	R2M8DCA2I6TR4F	0393060454	577480563	The Plot: The Secret Story of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion (Will Eisner Library (Hardcover))	Books	5	97	120	N	N	Will's Last Testament	There are lies, damn lies, and then there are the Protocols of the Elders of Zion.  Perhaps no other single document has been responsible for more bloodshed than the Protocols.  A thoroughly nasty hoax and complete forgery the Protocols reputed to be the minutes of a secret meeting of world Jewry that took place in conjunction with the first Zionist Congress in Switzerland in 1897.  The minutes detailed a conspiracy by these \\"Elders\\" to take over the world.  Despite being revealed repeatedly as a hoax the Protocols have taken on a life of their own and continue to be brought up in areas around the world.    Will Eisner, perhaps the most creative and influential cartoonist, graphic artist, and/or sequential artist (whatever term one finds applicable), of our time spent the last twenty years of his life trying to unravel the origins of this deadly hoax.  Bit-by-bit over the last twenty years Eisner read up on the Protocols and did significant amounts of research, including a review of files released in Russia (most of which dated to Tsarist and early revolutionary days) after the fall of communism.  Eisner completed this graphic history book one month before he died, at the age of 87.   The compelling art and narrative in \\"The Plot\\" helps to make Eisner's last work a wonderful epitaph for a creative giant. The year 2005 also marks the 100th anniversary of the Protocol's introduction in Russia in response to the 1905 Revolution.  The bloody pogroms that followed bear stark witness to the horrid power of the Protocols.    After a brief but moving introduction by Umberto Eco, Eisner lays out a sequential history of the birth and strange life of the Protocols.  The story begins with the creation of a book entitled \\"The Dialogue in Hell Between Machiavelli and Montesquieu\\" by a French writer named Maurice Joly.  Joly's book was a thinly-disguised attack on Napoleon III's rule.  The story continues and Eisner takes us into the life and less than wholesome career of MathieuGolovinski.  Golovinski, in conjunction with the Okhrana (the Tsar's version of the KGB) creates the Protocols by plagiarizing Joly's book almost completely.  From there we see the Protocols exposed as a hoax by The Times of London in the 1920s.  Yet despite that expose the Protocols are then used by both Adolf Hitler and the American car magnate Henry Ford.  It is still being distributed today.    A significant portion of the book consists of side-by-side comparison of Joly's Dialogue In Hell and Golovinski's Protocols.  The results are both compelling and conclusive.  There may be some who feel that this rather lengthy insert is not appropriate for a graphic work such as this.  I tend to think it both necessary and effective.  Mere claims of fraud are not sufficient.  It is important to set it out in black and white.  Eisner does this to great effect.    It has been said that a graphic novel may not be the best method for discussing such a serious topic.  I disagree.  I think that the information provided by Eisner is absorbed very well by the reader.  It is not an academic treatise to be sure but it was not intended to be.  The information is easily absorbed even if one takes time to admire Eisner's graphic art which is powerful and compelling.    Eisner's last work is a fitting tribute to his life for at least two reasons.  First, it provides an excellent overview of a publication that has caused havoc over the last 100 years. As Umberto Eco says in his introduction, \\"one must fight the Big Lie and the hatred it spawns\\".  Eisner has done this to great effect. Second, \\"The Plot\\" provides yet one more piece of supporting evidence for the assertion that the graphic arts is a serious, provocative medium that need not play second fiddle to what may sometimes be referred to as pure `literature' or `the arts'.  Eisner's legacy in this field is secure and The Plot serves as a fitting grace note to a long, distinguished career.	2005-05-27
US	52068296	RR74Y7AWXQ66T	0375713247	344054289	Epitaph for a Spy	Books	4	52	53	N	N	An honourable schoolteacher plays an imperfect spy	Long before le Carre's George Smiley and Len Deighton's Harry Palmer there were Eric Ambler's accidental spies.  In the late 1930's the loosely defined adventure/spy genre was not much advanced from the earlier works of Erskine Childers (Riddle of the Sands) and John Buchan (Thirty Nine Steps).  Ambler set out to write a book that added a small bit of realism to the good guy v. bad guy model.  The result was a series of highly entertaining and satisfying books that many believe set the stage for the likes of le Carre, Deighton, and, most recently, Alan Furst. Epitaph for a Spy is an excellent representative sample of Ambler's work.    In a footnote written in 1951 Ambler states that he \\"wrote Epitaph for a Spy in 1937 and it was a mild attempt at realism\\".  1937 was certainly a good year for realism in Europe and Ambler does an excellent job setting a realistic mood for a continent on the brink of another major war.      The story begins with an itinerant language teacher, Josef Vadassy, returning to Paris from his summer holidays. Vadassy stops off at a little town, St. Gatien, on his return journey.  An amateur photographer, Vadassy drops off a roll of film at the local chemists for development.  When he goes to pick up the photographs he finds himself under arrest by the French authorities.  His film contains photos of a top secret French naval installation.  Vadassy has no idea how the photos got there. One of the French agents, recognizing that he did not take the pictures advises Vadassy that he will be free to leave town if he goes back to the hotel and finds out which of the guests is the actual photo-taking spy.  Vadassy, a stateless Hungarian traveling on a Yugoslav passport has no choice but to play along.      The rest of the book is devoted to Vadassy's efforts to uncover the spy. In rather traditional fashion, Vadassy hotel is peopled by a diverse but limited group of`suspects'. There is the couple that runs the hotel, an American brother and sister, an English major and his Italian-born wife, a couple enjoying a romantic getaway with someone other than their spouses, a German businessman and a Swiss couple.  Vadassy is not a particularly good spy.  He has been thrust into a situation for which he is woefully unprepared.  In fact he is rather inept.  I thought of Vadassy as Hercule Poirot as played by Inspector Clousseau of Pink Panther fame.    As the story progresses, Ambler does a very nice job of fleshing out the underlying personalities of his cast of characters.  Not every is quite as it seems of course and Vadassy stumbles from one suspect to the next.  By the time the book has reached its conclusion the reader has had an opportunity to assess each character enough to make a guess as to who the real spy is.  It is to Ambler's credit that the spy is not readily apparent, at least not to this reader.    Epitaph for a Spy was an excellent read and I look forward to reading more of Ambler's work.    L. Fleisig	2005-05-23
US	52068296	R2RWEQQXFYTH6E	0061020702	727722067	The Light Fantastic	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Stop the world, I want to get back on!!!	Terry Pratchett's Light Fantastic is the second in his acclaimed Discworld series. However, I have not read the series in chronological fashion but in a rather haphazard manner which probably serves as some sort of model for chaos theory.  There are disadvantages to such a chaotic approach.  I have, for example, covered much of Commander Vimes' career in reverse order. On the other hand, reading the Discworld series in something like a reverse chronological order has its benefits.  It is the literary equivalent of an archeological dig in which you start in the present and dig your way back to first causes.  In many respects this is my Discworld version of Richard Dawkins' The Ancestor's Tale, as this represents my journey to the dawn of Discworld.  Unlike the earth, there is evidence of intelligent design behind the evolution of Discworld. That design falls squarely in the deft comedic and thoughtful writing of Terry Pratchett. <br /> <br />Light Fantastic begins with a real cliffhanger. Actually, Light Fantastic begins where \\"The Colour  of Magic\\" left off, with our two unlikely heroes, the rather cowardly, lapsed wizard Rincewind and the incredulous tourist Twoflower tumbling in space somewhere off the edge of Discworld.  The story is rather simple.  Discworld is on a collision course with a giant red star.  Discworld can be saved but it requires a combination of eight spells, seven of which are safely ensconced in the Octavo, the book of spells left by Discworld's creator.  As to the critical eighth spell, Rincewind appears to have accidentally absorbed the spell into his subconscious during a `visit' with the great book.  In order for the world to be saved, Rincewind will have to come to the Octavo or the Octavo will have to come to Rincewind. <br /> <br />As with any Discworld book the joy is to be found not in the ending but in the journey.  Twoflower and Rincewind are not what one would call perfectly matched yet they embark on a journey together (without really knowing it is a journey) and quickly develop a certain way of getting along with each other while appearing to be entirely dysfunctional.  The two reminded me of Bob Hope and Bing Crosby in one of their \\"Road\\" movies.  We run into a toothless Cohen the Barbarian and a young lady who becomes his love in hilarious fashion.  DEATH and his stepdaughter make an appearance and DEATH evidences his immortal, dry wit in a fashion worthy of the prince of darkness.  The librarian of Unseen University also appears.  Last but not least we have the wizards.  One wizard, in particular stands out, the seemingly unassuming Trymon.  But as unassuming as he seems his thirst for power is evident.  He achieves power that seems very reminiscent of Stalin's rise in the early years of the USSR. <br /> <br />As the red star approaches Discworld is engulfed in panic.  The nearer it gets the more bizarre the behavior of the people of Discworld, the wizards and assorted trolls and dwarves.  The ending is very satisfying.  In some small way the acts performed by Rincewind struck me as similar to those performed by the Cowardly Lion in the Wizard of Oz.  He had to look inside himself at the end of the book and I think it clear that Pratchett had him find (or try to find) more than just the eighth spell. <br /> <br />Light Fantastic was a fun read.  Having read Discworld in something like a reverse order I think it fair to say that this early story has more humor than philosophy.  The combination of the two is one of the enjoyable benefits of reading Discworld.  My archeological dig into this strange and funny universe reveals that the \\"philosophy of Discworld\\" was subject to an evolutionary process.  Unlike the evolution of our species on Earth, the evolution of Discworld has been nothing but positive. <br /> <br />Light Fantastic is a funny, thoughtful book that will be enjoyed by any Pratchett fan or anyone looking to spend a few hours lost in a wacky, wonderful parallel universe. <br />	2005-05-20
US	52068296	R3K5P1E5YFTIEC	1400041538	149418311	Liquidation	Books	5	30	31	N	N	The world is a comedy to those that think	. . . a tragedy to those who feel. Horace Walpole.    Liquidation is the fourth in a series of books by Imre Kertesz, winner of the Nobel Prize for literature in 2002.  Three, \\"Fateless\\", \\"Kaddish for a Child not Born\\", and \\"Liquidation\\" have been published in English.  The fourth, \\"Fiasco\\" awaits translation.  Although each is related to the other, the recurring characters and their life's story tends to change, the common thread in all is that monstrous thing known as Auschwitz.  Kertesz himself is an Auschwitz survivor, and all his books have put Auschwitz, something that defies explanations or answers, on center stage.    Liquidation contains a story within a story.  The protagonist, the aptly named Kingbitter, is a book editor in Budapest.  It is the turn of the new century, 2000, and company that employs him is in serious economic trouble.  The book opens with Kingbitter and his small circle of `friends' discussing \\"B\\".  \\"B\\", an author, committed suicide in 1990 by means of an overdose of morphine, the morphine provided by his ex-wife.  The friends are discussing \\"B\\" last known work, a play entitled \\"Liquidation\\".  Oddly enough, the play, which discusses Kingbitter and that circle of friends, has foretold their personal course of events in the ten years since his suicide.  Additionally, references in the play to a book supposedly written by \\"B\\" have caused Kingbitter to spend ten years in search of the manuscript.   The manuscript is never found and doubts arise as to whether it ever existed.    Although Kingbitter is the principal `living' person in the book, the story does focus on \\"B\\" and his life and death.  \\"B\\" was one of those few children born at Auschwitz.  The story of his birth and survival is one of life's small miracles, a small drop of water in a sea of evil and death.  As the story progresses, and as the play within the play progresses, Kertesz exposes us to \\"B\\", his ex-wife, his mistress, and Kingbitter and company.  Each has their own take on \\"B's\\" life and each provides the reader with some  insight into \\"B\\"s life. As one friend notes, \\"B\\" once said that \\"Man, when reduced to nothing, or in other words a survivor, is not tragic but comic, because he has no fate.\\"  Taking the quote from Walpole, above, as a reference, it is clear that \\"B\\" is one given to thought and not to feeling.  In fact, I had the distinct imperssioin that feeling was an emotion that \\"B\\" avoided, perhaps understandably, at all costs.  Ultimately, as with his other books, neither Kertesz nor his characters can answer the question that is Auschwitz and the meaning of survival.  For \\"B\\", his survival has rendered him fateless as the fact of his surviving deprived fate of an intended victim.      Kertesz' writing is sparse and to the point.  He does not provide the reader with emotional content.  He provides text and a description of his characters, their actions, and their thoughts. As was the case in Fateless, any emotions to be gained from reading Liquidation will come from your own sense of the text.  Kertesz does not provide you with an emotional road map.      Although Liquidation is one of a series, each book stands on its own and may be enjoyed on its own merits.  However, for anyone interested in reading Kertesz, I suggest they start with Fateless.  Although Kaddish comes next chronologically, I suggest reading Liquidation next.  The only reason for this order is the assertion by some devotees of Kertesz that the book \\"Kaddish for a Child not Born\\" may represent the manuscript not found by Kingbitter in Liquidation.  That may or may not be the case but it may enhance the reader's enjoyment if it is viewed as the lost manuscript of \\"B\\".  The reader should also be aware that although each book is related to the other and there is an overlap in characters at times, this is not a trilogy.  Kertesz shifts the story line around quite a bit.  The Auschwitz survivor in Fateless, for example, was taken to the camps as a teenager, unlike \\"B\\" who was born there.  The stories are connected by theme, not by plot line.	2005-05-13
US	52068296	R34JWNQF669XOF	0618367012	931640565	Stalin's Folly: The Tragic First Ten Days of World War II on the Eastern Front	Books	5	72	80	N	N	Ten (More) Days That Shook the World	Constantine Pleshakov's Stalin's Folly is a comprehensive and compelling examination of the first ten days of the German invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941.    The invasion and the events leading up to it are well known.  Pleshakov begins the story by tracing briefly the course of events in Eastern Europe in the two years before the invasion.  The Hitler-Stalin Pact was signed on August 23, 1939.  Eight days later, the German military launched its blitzkrieg against Poland.  After the rapid defeat of Poland and pursuant to secret protocols in place between Germany and the USSR, the conquered territories were divided into Soviet and German spheres of influence.  Estonia, Latvia and the eastern portion of Poland were placed under the Soviet sphere.       In an extended introductory section, Pleshakov points out that the Soviet defensive fortifications running along its old border, strong and well built, were dismantled and plans for new fortifications along the new border were made.  Most of the Soviet air force was also moved into these forward areas. By the time of the invasion the new fortifications were not complete.  Further the Soviet general staff and virtually its entire officer corps had either been killed or sent to the Gulag in Stalin's purges.  The survivors included older cavalry generals from the Civil War and newly promoted senior officers such as the soon to be world famous Georgy Zhukov.    Despite their inexperience the Soviet High Command understood that Stalin's decision to position the bulk of his army and air force so close to the front lines was extraordinarily dangerous.  From a military viewpoint, defensive lines should be further from the initial point of attack so they would have time to deploy effectively.  This advance positioning would only be effective if Soviet forces were planning a preemptive attack on the German forces.  And this is exactly what Stalin was planning.  Pleshakov's extensive research into Soviet archives indicates that Stalin planned a preemptive strike to commence in June 1942.  Stalin knew the pact would not last but that the Germans would not attack until after Hitler's armies had conquered Britain. Sadly for Stalin, by the summer of 1940 Hitler had decided not to invade Britain and turned his attention east. Hitler instructed his general staff to plan for an invasion, codenamed Operation Barbarossa, to begin in the spring of 1941.      Once the invasion begins, in the dawn hours of June 22, 1941 Pleshakov takes the reader on a detailed, almost hour-by-hour discussion of the disastrous first ten days.  These were ten days in which Stalin would not speak to the Soviet people.  Pleshakov details Stalin's mood swings, his deep depression and panic.  Disastrous counterattacks were ordered.  On the first day of the invasion virtually the entire Soviet Air Force was destroyed on the ground. Three weeks into the war, the Soviet Union had lost 28 infantry divisions and 600,000 soldiers out of 3 million in uniform.  It would take 3 more years and at least 10 million more Soviet lives before the territory  lost in the first ten days of the war was liberated by the Red Army.    It is a tribute to Pleshakov's writing skills that he conveys the drama and suspense of an event that we know the outcome of.  I should also add that the fact that this work may be called a popular history does not mean that Pleshakov's research and attention to detail is less than rigorous. It is.    Shakespeare once wrote, that \\"the common curse of mankind,-folly and ignorance, be thine in great revenue!\\"  As Pleshakov so artistically and intelligently shows, folly was found in great revenue in the first ten days of the war on the Eastern Front.  Yet he also shows the courage and resilience of the people of the Soviet Union that enabled them to eventually stem the tide and destroy the German armies in the east.  This is an excellent book. Anyone interested in the Second World War or Soviet history should enjoy it immensely.    L. Fleisig	2005-05-08
US	52068296	RO18FYLWK1W16	1560255803	261764713	Love, Poverty, and War: Journeys and Essays (Nation Books)	Books	5	121	128	N	N	Something to bewitch, bother, and bewilder everyone	Christopher Hitchens is one of those writers whose prodigious output of letters, essays, and commentaries on the life, the universe, and everything is so pointed and provocative that he is capable of irritating anyone, sometimes repeatedly so, familiar enough with his work to have read more than just one of his essays. This should not be construed as a negative.  In fact, if one is going to fall into paroxysms of anger or annoyance when reading an essay at the very least it should be well written, intelligent, and amusing.  \\"Love, Poverty, and War\\" a collection of essays written by Christopher Hitchens has all three attributes in abundance and will please anyone willing to take the risk that his/her cultural or political icons may be subject to one of Hitchens' literary assaults.    As noted, Hitchens is prolific.  The essays in this anthology were originally printed in   The Atlantic, Slate, the Nation, Vanity Fair, the Weekly Standard, and the Times Literary Supplement among other publications.  In addition the anthology includes prefaces that Hitchens has written for new editions of classic works of fiction such Saul Bellow's Adventures of Augie March and Aldous Huxley's Brave New World.      It is fair to say that Hitchens does not suffer fools or cultural icons gladly.  In short order he takes aim at Winston Churchill, Mother Theresa, Noam Chomsky, Michael Moore, Mel Gibson, and allegedly oppressive no smoking regulations implemented by the Mayor of New York.  Given the diversity of political and social views held by these subjects it is hard to accuse Hitchens of toeing a particular ideological line.  One may wince, for example, when Hitchens takes on Churchill and then applaud when he eviscerates Chomsky.  No matter whether one agrees with the substance of any particular essay it is hard to disagree with the intellect and writing style of the drafter.  Hitchens' very success in advancing his point of view may explain the ferocity of the attacks upon him by those who have been subject to his rapier.  Very few can best him intellectually (I certainly can't) or match the sheer breadth of the subjects he has no small amount of knowledge of.  Of course the immediate reaction then becomes a personal attack on his motives.      I expected the book to be dominated by the political and literary commentary that marks most of his writings for the Atlantic and Salon.  What both surprised and delighted me was Hitchens more apolitical essays.  His journey on the tattered remains of Route 66 is a brilliant piece of writing.  So to is his look at Hollywood's famous Sunset Boulevard.    I was also surprised by the depth of personal feelings and emotions that runs through many of Hitchens essays.  This is no more apparent that Hitchens' post 9/11 essays.  Hitchen's description of the deep-seated emotions that welled up in him after the attacks on his adopted country, particularly New York City is very moving.  He spoke with a feeling for New York that only a true New Yorker can have.  (Qualification for true New Yorker status is not limited to place of birth or length of residence. It is based purely on the quality of ones attachment to it.) This is Hitchens without the sarcasm and pointed wit.  He speaks from the heart and it is quite moving.      All in all these essays have something to please and annoy just about everyone.  Colette once said that the \\"writer who loses his self-doubt, who gives way as he grows old to a sudden euphoria, to prolixity, should stop writing immediately: the time has come for him to lay aside his pen.\\"  Hitchens may be prolific but he is far from prolix.  I trust it will be a long time before he lays down his pen.    This book is recommended for anyone that admires good writing and who is not concerned about damaging any particular sacred cows.	2005-04-26
US	52068296	R155SNRWPKUQ3O	0786715480	938639083	The Italian Secretary: A Further Adventure of Sherlock Holmes	Books	4	103	110	N	Y	Any Truth is Better Than Indefinite Doubt	So said Sherlock Holmes in The Yellow Face.  Any indefinite doubt I had about Caleb Carr's ability to craft a credible and very enjoyable Sherlock Holmes adventure was dispelled in the first few pages.   I have read and enjoyed Carr's earlier fiction, The Alienist and The Angel of Darkness. One of the hallmarks of both books was Carr's ability to create a seemingly auhentic picture of life in 19th-century New York.  He also created a wonderful pair of characters in Dr. Lazlo Kreizler and his trusted comrade John Schuyler Moore.  However, Carr faced two hurdles in writing the Italian Secretary.  He had to recreate the atmosphere of Victorian-era Scotland, a region he was probably not as intimately familiar with as New York City.  Further, while Kreizler and Moore sprung solely from Carr's imagination, here Carr had to find authentic voices for the esteemed Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson, whose characterization by Arthur Conan Doyle must be fixed firmly in the imagination of anyone who has ever read the original Holmes tales.  That is no easy task.  I have read virtually all of Conan Doyle's work but admit that I cannot claim as much expertise as devoted Baker Street Irregulars or other followers of Holmes.  However, this amateur thinks Carr has done a terrific job replicating their original voices. It sound like Holmes and Watson to me.  The plot line is set out in detail in the product description and I won't go on at length about the plot or discuss any of the many twists and turns along the way.  I did like the way Carr threw Sherlock's brother Mycroft into the story.  Carr does an excellent job describing the petty sibling rivalries that must affect even the most accomplished of brothers.    Carr does a very good job of revealing bits and pieces of the mystery every few pages. The story is fast-paced and the many twists and turns in the story left me continually wanting to read just one more chapter before I put the book down for the evening.  For me, this is themark of good adventure tale.   In an afterword. Jon Lellenberg, the U.S. representative of the estate of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, suggests that Carr write a new story in which Holmes and Watson meet up with Carr's Kreizler and Moore.  I do hope Carr takes a stab at this.     Sir Arthur Conan Doyle wrote in \\"The Man With the Twisted Lip\\" that \\"a trusty comrade is always of use; and a chronicler still more so.\\"  Carr has done a marvelous job in chronicling the further adventures of Sherlock Holmes.  This is a book that will be enjoyed by fans of both Carr and Conan-Doyle as well as by readers who simply like a fast-paced, well written yarn.	2005-04-19
US	52068296	RFAE9BVXXPWNC	0300089163	912325621	The Duel: The Eighty-Day Struggle Between Churchill and Hitler	Books	4	23	24	N	N	The Race is Not to the Swift, Nor the Battle to the Strong.	John Lukacs' book \\"The Duel\\" calls to mind the classic hypothetical paradox that asks what happens when an irresistible force meets an immovable object.  In this instance the irresistible force was Adolf Hitler and his armed forces and the immovable object was Winston Churchill.    The duel that is the subject of this book takes place in the tumultuous 80-day period between May 10, 1940 and July 30, 1940.  Lukacs surrounds the recitation of this 80-day period with two coincidences.  On May 10, 1940 Churchill became Prime Minister, replacing Neville Chamberlain.  At the same time the battle for Western Europe began in earnest when Hitler launched land and air attacks on Holland, Luxembourg, and Belgium. On July 31, 1940 Hitler began making formal plans for the invasion of the USSR.  On that same day U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt decided to go forward with a lend-lease program that would provide the British navy with 50 aging, but much needed destroyers.  Events in May and early June provided evidence that Hitler and his advancing armies were something of an irresistible force.  The German army and air force made quick work of Holland, Luxembourg, and Belgium.  France and its forces were defeated in short order as well.  At the same time, in these dark early days, Churchill's hold on power was tenuous at best.  As Lukacs is quick to point out, the ousted Chamberlain was more popular amongst Conservative party loyalists.  Churchill's only real popular support according to surveys cited by Lukacs came from working class (labour) voters.  Hitler and the U.S. Ambassador to Britain Joseph Kennedy both seemed to think that, if anything, Churchill was an easily removable force.  Facts, as Lukacs points, proved both Hitler and Joseph Kennedy wrong.  The Duel is set out in a point-counterpoint fashion.  It alternates between examining the war from the German and then British viewpoint.  Although Lukacs is a long-time admirer of Churchill (and with good reason) his analysisof events and of the character and judgments of both Churchill and Hitler seems both astute and objective.  Lukacs avoids the easy picture of Hitler as madman and is quite prepared to give him credit for the efficacy of his military plans and his ability to think rationally (and often brilliantly) about military and political developments in Western Europe.  Similarly, Lukacs is not above criticizing some of Churchill's decisions or pointing out many of the mis-steps that occurred during this period.  The critical events of the 80 days covered by Lukacs'seem to me to be the successful evacuation of 350,000 British and French troops from Dunkerque in early June, Hitler's subsequent decision to not proceed with plans for the invasion of Britain, and his eventual decision at the end of July to invade Russia.  Lukacs makes it clear that the German armies could have been a bit more aggressive and could have taken most of those evacuated from Dunkerque prisoner. Yet Hitler grew unusually cautious at this critical juncture. There is some evidence to suggest that Hitler thought the British would seek peace in short order but Lukacs suggests that this evidence may not be totally persuasive.  Lukacs does suggest however, that if those troops had not been evacuated successfully the forces in Britain seeking reconciliation or negotiation with Hitler may have won the day.    The `duel' ends in a stalemate.  Five gruesome years of war would follow.  However, in terms of the classic irresistible force/immovable object paradox the stalemate clearly benefited the immovable object.  Churchill, as a rational thinker, could not have entertained the belief that he could have won any major battles during this period.  However, the commodity most precious to him and for the future of parliamentary democracy in Britain, was not victory but time.  Britain needed time to gather strength and, most importantly, time to seek assistance from the United States.  That assistance was very slow incoming.  Roosevelt was in the middle of an election campaign and the forces of isolation were still very strong in the United States.  By doing enough to forestall invasion, and aided by Hitler's decision to divert attention to the Soviet Union, Churchill gained the time he needed. The British armed forces were not particularly swift nor strong but in time they would be.  Churchill's desparate struggle to 'buy' that time may in fact represent his finest hours.  The Duel is a very readable popular history of a very critical time in Europe's (and the world's history).  His portrayal of both Hitler and Churchill seems balanced and objective.  This is a very well written book that can be enjoyed equally by casual or serious students of this period.  It is a good book and it is well worth reading.	2005-04-18
US	52068296	RF8MV0BBWK1WL	0945774109	514437410	War with the Newts	Books	5	34	39	N	Y	And I Stood Upon the Sand of the Sea	and Saw a Beast Rise up Out of the Sea. <br /> <br />This apocalyptic vision from the book of Revelations is a fitting introduction to Karel Capek's dystopian masterpiece, War With the Newts.  Capek described in an interview how the idea for War With The Newts came to him and serves as a good synopsis of the book: <br /> <br />\\"I had written the sentence, 'You mustn't think that the evolution that gave rise to us was the only evolutionary possibility on this planet. . . . that cultural developments could be shaped through the mediation of another animal species. If the biological conditions were favorable, some civilization not inferior to our own could arise in the depths of the sea. . . . Would it do the same stupid things mankind has done? Would it invite the same historical calamities? What would we say if some animal other than man declared that its education and its numbers gave it the sole right to occupy the entire world and hold sway over all creation?\\"  Out of this thought process War With the Newts Was Born. <br /> <br />The plot is straightforward.  The master of a tramp steamer, Captain van Toch, comes across a rather curious breed of newts in an isolated lagoon near Sumatra.  He discovers that they are intelligent and capable of communication.  They lack, however, the ability to open easily oysters for food because of their short arms.  He takes a knife and shows them how to use it.  Next thing you know they have used his knife to open thousands of oysters, enough to provide the newts with food and the Captain with a large supply of pearls.  Captain van Toch takes groups of newts and plants them in lagoons across the coastlines and lagoons of Asia.  They are extraordinarily industrious. Before long newts become a worldwide rage.  Every nation in the world uses newts to perform Herculean tasks of underwater and coastal development.  The newts do not demand salaries. They merely ask for heavy equipment and munitions to facilitate these underwater projects.  In short order the manufacture and supply of arms and equipment for newts becomes the single most important part of the world's economy.  <br /> <br />Despite some increasingly violent skirmishes between newts and man no nation is willing to cease providing weapons to the newts.  Before long the newts revolt, led by the Great Salamander (an apparent parody of Hitler), and announce that they will start destroying the earth, continent by continent in order to provide more coastline for the growing newt population.  Despite this threat the nations of the earth continue to provide arms to the newts.  The resultant battle is over quickly.  Mountains are leveled, continents are turned into a series of islands and what is left of man finds its way to the Alps, or Rocky Mountains, or Himalayas.   <br /> <br />As the story concludes, the author engages in a dialogue with himself and asks himself whether this is the end of man.  After a great deal of soul searching he responds that perhaps the newts will take on all of the characteristics of the human race and find a way to destroy themselves.  When that day occurs, perhaps humanity will recover what it gave away so readily.  <br /> <br />War With the Newts is a fascinating book on many levels. The idea that the story is premised on the notion of concurrent evolutionary trends predates much landmark work that has been done since the book was written.  It is also important to note that War With the Newts was written in 1936.  The Nazis had obtained full control of Germany, Mussolini's fascists ruled Italy, and Stalin's purges were in full swing.  Capek was devoted to the new Czech Republic and was an ardent proponent of the ideals of democracy.  By 1936 the rest of Europe had already taken many strides down the road to appeasement.  Capek's pessimistic vision of the fate of humanity is well grounded in contemporary events.  War With the Newts may be viewed as much as a parable of contemporary events as a foretelling of a dark future.  Finally, Capek is an excellent writer.  His prose is full of wit and wry diversions.  His chapter on the mating habits of the newts struck me as a classic parody of the human mating habits of his contemporary Aldous Huxley in Brave New World.  <br /> <br />The following excerpt from a poem written by Capek after the bombing of the town of Badajoz during the Spanish Civil War serves as a fitting summation of the world view that permeates War With the Newts. <br /> <br />When this century collapses, dead at last, <br />and its sleep within the dark tomb has begun, <br />come, look down upon us, world, file past <br />and be ashamed of what our age has done. <br />Inscribe our stone, that everyone may see <br />what this dead era valued most and best: <br />science, progress, work, technology <br />and death - but death we prized above the rest. <br /> <br />Almost seventy years after its publication the message of War With the Newts still resonates.   <br /> <br />Capek's War With the Newts is a wonderful, thought provoking book.   <br />	2005-04-13
US	52068296	R39H8VAHHNACPW	0141182083	988003742	R.U.R. (Rossum's Universal Robots) (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	I have thought some of Nature's journeymen had made men	and not made them well, they imitated humanity so abominably.  Hamlet, Act iii, scene 2.      The ultimate problem in Karel Capek's extraordinary play, R.U.R. (Rossum's Universal Robots) is that the robots created by humanity's journeymen imitated humanity so abominably well.     Written in 1920 and first produced in 1921 RUR opened to critical worldwide acclaim.  Although RUR is best remembered for introducing the word robot into the lexicon (the word was coined by Karel's brother and some time collaborator Josef Capek) it is more a somber reflection on humanity than on the emergence of robots.      The play opens on an unnamed island at some point in time after 1920 where lifelike robots are being produced by Rossum's Universal Robots.  The officers of the corporation meet a young lady, Helena, who has come to the island on behalf of the League of Humanity, determined to help liberate these robots from the inhumane working conditions that confront them.  The executives fill Helena in on the history of the company, particularly the father-son team of Rossums that developed the first robots.  Capek makes it a point to describe the difference between the father and the son.  The father was  a \\"scientific materialist\\" whose desire to create an imitation of man grew out of his wish to prove that God was unnecessary.  The son thought this was both silly and inefficient and sought nothing more than to produce robots capable of working non-stop.      Each of the following scenes takes place at some unspecified point in the future.  The millions of robots produced take on all the industrial and agricultural work performed formerly by men and women.  This leads to unintended consequences. First, the lack of necessity (the need to work) in everyday life leads to a few worker revolts.  This causes various governments to arm the robots to quell the resulting riots.  Further, these governments decide that all future wars will be fought by robots.  As one might imagine, a well-trained robot-militia is not conducive to the future health and welfare of the human race.  Second, the lack of work and the general lack of purposefulness of life render humans incapable of reproducing.    As the play nears its end, the robots have united and have set out to destroy the human race.  Clearly, the robots have learned to think for themselves and as such they have taken on (or evolved into) something that more closely resembles the human race.  The fact that the robots behave so abominably does not belie this similarity to their human creators. The problem the robots face is that they do not have the inherent capacity to reproduce (they have a shelf-life a bit shorter than is average for humans) and they have inadvertently destroyed those humans that know how to create more robots. They are faced with extinction just as surely as the humans they have destroyed.    As the play concludes the sole remaining human, Alquist, spots two robots whose clear affection for each other indicates that the robots are about find a means to reproduce without the assistance of the humans who gave them life.  This pleases Alquist no end and as the play ends, he `anoints' the robots with his blessing. It is a poignant, jumbled mixture of the creation story (and on the sixth day) and the Song of Simeon (Let us now thy servant depart in peace for mine eyes have seen thy salvation.)  The rich irony in this biblical blessing of the new, robotic Adam and Eve brings us to a place dramatically different from the elder Rossum's stated desire to create robots to disprove the existence of God.  Alquist's benediction shows man at the height of his humanity and speaks directly to Alduous Huxley's dictum that \\"the humanity of men and women is inversely proportional to their numbers.\\"    R.U.R. was written at a time when the world was still reeling from the horrors of the First World War, which horrors were magnified by technological advancements that made the killing industry far moreefficient than it ever had been in the past.  Capek's pessimism must be viewed through that prism.  However, it must be noted that apek's pessimism was not directed at technology itself.  I think his concern was with the unchanging human nature of those who think they control the technology and who direct, for good or ill, its use.  In some respects this harkens to the political slogan that \\"guns don't kill people, people kills people\\".  In this instance and in view of the horrors Capek witnessed first hand, it does not seem inappropriate.    It should be noted that R.U.R. was written 85 years ago and the words Capek wrote were meant to be heard by an audience and not read..  As such, some of the dialogue will sound a bit stilted or dated to the reader.  However this bit of apparent aging should not diminish the enjoyment to be derived from reading R.U.R. R.U.R. and Capek' other great dystopian work, War With the Newts are a must read for those interested in some of the early 20th century's most compelling fictional looks into the heart of darkness that is mankind.  The introduction by Ivan Klima, a biographer of Capek is noteworthy and adds a great deal of illumination for the reader.	2005-04-07
US	52068296	R30N5CRWXLH2ZK	1594200440	549104190	A Short History of Tractors in Ukrainian: A Novel	Books	4	88	94	N	N	UKRAINIAN TRACTORS: It Had Me From Hello!	I picked up Marina Lewycka's \\"A Short History of Tractors in Ukrainian\\" almost by accident.  The title attracted my attention so I picked it up and began reading.  After reading the first three sentences, I was sold. They are: \\"Two years after my mother died, my father fell in love with a glamorous blond Ukrainian divorcee.  He was eighty-four and she was thirty-six.  She exploded into our lives like a fluffy pink grenade, churning up the murky water, bringing to the surface sludge of sloughed-off memories, giving the family ghosts a kick up the backside.\\"  The concern I have with books that begin so well is the difficulty the remainder has in living up to such promise.  I am happy to report that Ukrainian Tractors lived up to the promise of its opening paragraph.  The opening sentences sum up the story.  Nikolai, his wife and two children Vera and Nadezhda (Nadia) were Ukrainian refugees who, at the conclusion of the Second World War make their way to Peterborough, England.  Vera was born before the war and has memories of the families' travails in German work camps.  She is the \\"war baby.\\" Vera is the basic domineering know-it-all older sister.  Nadia is the peace baby, a liberal sociology lecturer with a penchant for buying her clothes used at the local Oxfam (charity outlet).  Nadia and Vera have not talked since their mother's funeral.  Nikolai picks up he phone one day and announces to Nadia that he is about to take a new bride.  Valentina is a young, buxom bottle-blonde Ukrainian whose U.K. residency visa is about to expire.  As expected, Vera and Nadia call a truce in order to prevent the marriage and protect their father from a fate they consider worse than death.  Nikolai, of course, cannot help but contemplate blissful evenings in the warm embrace of his well-endowed faux-blonde soon to be illegal alien while he writes his book, a history of the tractor, the farm implement that changed the world.  Valentina makes for a worthy adversary and seems to best Vera and Nadia every step of the way.  The comedy of the book turns a bit dark, however, as Nikolai's age and infirmities facilitate Valentina's increasing dominance over him.  Her mental and physical abuse of Nikolai becomes apparent.  At the same time, Lewycka takes us on a trip through the family's past.  In the meantime, family ghosts and secrets begin to emerge.  Root causes of the family's deep-rooted antagonism begin to reveal themselves as the story progresses.  Events race on to a not altogether surprising conclusion.    I very much enjoyed \\"A Short History of tractors In Ukrainian\\".  I was impressed by the manner in which Lewycka fleshed out the characters.  Anyone who has been responsible for the care and feeding of an aging parent or grandparent will recognize Nikolai.  One's pride is the last thing to go sometimes and when we see events beat the pride out of our loved ones we can almost see them shrink before our eyes.  The two sisters also had a strong air of reality about them.  I've seen each type in real life and I think Lewycka captures their essences well.  Last but not least we have the Ukrainian bombshell, Valentina.  By the end of the book I had no small amount of sympathy for Valentina. I could admire her work effort and her desire to make a better life for herself and her son despite her poor treatment of Nikolai.  This is no easy task for a writer to accomplish.  At the same time, her grasping nature, her dolled-up appearance, and her belief that ready-made food products were the western equivalent of high cuisine were downright hilarious at times.  There were a couple of spots where I thought the story dragged a bit or where some of the actions of the characters did not quite ring true. Some of the subsidiary characters seems a bit lifeless compared to Valentina and Nikolai. However, those relatively minor flaws were swept up in a story that was both charming and thoughtful.	2005-03-25
US	52068296	R1HTZRGWH7JIYI	1844675254	985666872	Wobblies!: A Graphic History of the Industrial Workers of the World	Books	4	20	23	N	N	"I know no East or West, North or South, when it comes to my	fighting the battle for justice.\\"  Mother Jones <br /> <br />This sentiment from one of the founders of the International Workers of the World (\\"IWW\\") better known to the world as the Wobblies captures the underlying spirit that permeated the Wobblies.  It also captures the spirit of the entertaining and informative \\"Wobblies! A Graphic History of the Industrial Workers of the World\\".  For those not familiar with the Wobblies, some brief background information may be helpful.   <br /> <br />The IWW was created at a convention in Chicago in June 1905.  In attendance were some of the leading figures in the American labor movement, including Big Bill Haywood, Eugene V. Debs, Daniel De Leon, and the above mentioned Mother Jones to name a few.   The disparate groups who came together to form the IWW shared two common bonds: a disdain for the elite, seemingly pro-capitalist craft unions that made up the American Federation of Labor (AFL); and a belief in the necessity of `the class struggle'.  Membership in the IWW was open to all workers. This stood in stark contrast to the tough entry requirements of the AFL's craft unions.  The IWW, unlike the AFL, welcomed both women and racial minorities into its ranks.  As a result, the IWW may be said to have created the first `rainbow coalition' of American political thought.  There were socialists, anarchists, communists, syndicalists, and just about every type of `ist' one can imagine in the IWW.  Membership grew rapidly in the early days of the movement and the IWW became much feared by the corporations they did battle with and loomed large in the public imagination.  John Dos Passos captured the IWW beautifully in his landmark USA Trilogy.  At the same time, the fragmented ideology of its membership resulted in quite a bit of internal strife and the somewhat anarchic nature of the IWW as an organization created some difficulties for it.  The IWW's growth reached its peak in the days leading up to the 1917 entrance of the United States into the First World War.  The war and the subsequent `Red Square' following the Russian Revolution led to a series of federal legislative and judicial measures that hampered severely the IWW's organizing activities. <br /> <br /> <br />\\"Wobblies!\\" is at once both an entertaining and informative graphic history of the IWW.  This is not a full blown, chronological history.  Edited by Paul Buhle and Nicole Schulman, both of whom have deep connections to what may be called the American Left, Wobblies! consists of a series of illustrated vignettes of notable events in the history of the IWW.  Virtually all the writers and graphic artists who contributed to Wobblies!, perhaps the most well-known being Harvey Pekar, have roots in or sympathy with contemporary radical political action groups.  I found the simple story lines to be coherent and I found the graphic artwork to be excellent. <br /> <br />The stories seem a bit random and the narrative lacks a certain element of continuity at times. Yet these elements struck me as being fully consistent with the rather chaotic nature of the IWW itself and I found it to be amusing rather than annoying.  Further, as its title indicates, this is a graphic history. The reliance on graphics seemed to be an appropriate vehicle to tell the story of the IWW.  Significant portions of its membership were immigrants who either did not speak English or who were illiterate.  The IWW relied heavily on oral (songs) and visual (street theater) means to promote itself.  With that in mind the use of graphics to tell the story of the Wobblies seemed perfect.  <br /> <br />The year 2005 marks the centenary of the founding of the IWW and this book may be viewed as an admittedly admiring commemoration.  Having said that, it should be noted that the fondness the contributors have for the IWW does not lessen the quality of the graphics or the quality of the breezy, informative narration.  This book may only find favor with readers politicallypre-disposed to the IWW.  In a sense that would be a shame.  I think the graphics and the information contained in Wobblies! could appeal to a wider audience who either like graphic artwork generally or who are interested in a work that happens to tell some stories in a compelling manner of a by gone era.   <br />	2005-03-23
US	52068296	RULPDWJUVKPR1	0393324842	550346223	Khrushchev: The Man and His Era	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Exquisite Biography of a Complex "Simple" Man	Nikita Sergeevich Khrushchev was a `simple' man.  He was also an extraordinarily complex man full of internal contradictions and conflicts.  The child of peasants, Khrushchev had only four years of formal education. Yet he rose up from the ranks of the proletariat (perhaps the only Soviet leader with true proletarian roots) to become the leader of one of the superpowers of the 20th century.  William Taubman's meticulously researched and beautifully written, Khrushchev: The Man and His Era, unravels the complexities of this `simple' soul.    Khrushchev the leader was everywhere during my cold-war youth.  I grew up with images of his `kitchen debate' with then Vice President Nixon and his shoe banging episode at the United Nations.  Khrushchev's alleged threat to bury the U.S. (he never actually said as much) was common knowledge even to children of the era and may explain my wearing a Khrushchev mask one Halloween while trick or treating.      Since his departure from the world stage in 1964, neither history nor historians have paid much attention to Khrushchev.  Historians continue to pay far more attention to Lenin, Stalin, and even Trotsky than to Khrushchev and no one has ever really managed to take an extended look at the man behind that Halloween mask. William Taubman has, in one fell swoop, managed to balance the scales.    Taubman follows the normal chronological outlines of Khrushchev's life and times. As one would expect we begin with his impoverished childhood in the Donbass coal mining region of Russia.    A skilled sheet metal worker at the outbreak of the October Revolution, Khrushchev joined the Communist Party and began what can best be described as a meteoric rise up the slippery and dangerous slope of the party leadership where sometimes the only thing worse than being too far from Joseph Stalin was being too close.  It is from Khrushchev's first interactions with Stalin that Taubman's writing and analysis soars.  It is from this point that the tragic contradictions that marked Khrushchev's life began to come to the surface.    We see Khrushchev in the role of devoted servant to Stalin, participating with no small amount of energy and satisfaction in party purges and the purges of ethnic nationalities.  Up until Stalin's death, Taubman makes it clear that Khrushchev's hands (along with the hands of every other player in the court of the Red tsar) were stained with the blood of thousands of Soviet citizens.  Yet this was the same Khrushchev who took a tremendous leap of faith in revealing Stalin's `crimes' at the famous Party Congress in 1956.      We see Khrushchev instituting what became known as the thaw in the USSR.  In 1956, Khrushchev opened the gates of the Gulag and thousands of prisoners returned home from Siberia.  Yet in this same year he did not hesitate to send tanks to Hungary to crush a popular democratic movement.  The thaw enabled Solzhenitsyn to publish One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch, yet the work of Vasilly Grossman was physically destroyed by the KGB.      Taubman shows us Khrushchev in the role of cold-warrior. He had the Berlin Wall built, sent missiles to Cuba, and paraded Gary Power's downed U-2 spy plane through Red Square.  Yet, at the same time Khrushchev understood that the massive amounts of money being poured into the military would have a drastic impact on the Soviet economy, a theory proven by later events.  He suggested increasing the USSR's missile defense systems while proposing dramatic cuts in the strength of Soviet Navy and Army.  Unfortunately these proposed cuts cost him the support of the military.  Believing that the future of the USSR would be guaranteed by agricultural self-sufficiency he promoted scheme after scheme to increase production.  Unfortunately most of these schemes turned out to be more than a bit silly and they all failed in a very public fashion.  These failures cost Khrushchev public and political support. By October, 1964 Khrushchev was removed, peacefully from office. Khrushchev died a bitter, lonely, man.    Blaise Pascal wrote: \\"What a chimera, then, is man! what a novelty, what a monster, what a chaos, what a subject of contradiction, what a prodigy! A judge of all things, feeble worm of the earth, depositary of the truth, cloaca of uncertainty and error, the glory and the shame of the universe!\\"   Taubman has done a marvelous job exploring the chimera, chaos, and contradictions that made the life of Nikita S. Khrushchev so utterly fascinating.      Anyone interested in Soviet history, history generally, or who just likes well-written, well-informed biographies should read this book.	2005-03-16
US	52068296	R333KS3I5YKNBK	1592640281	41423065	The Wind of the Khazars	Books	4	60	61	N	Y	They Call The Wind Khazaria	The story of the Jewish kingdom of the Khazars is a fascinating piece of history. The Khazars were a collection of semi-nomadic tribes that wandered through the Caucasus region of what is now Russia. Khazaria, loosely thought of as the isthmus-like land mass located between the Black and Caspian Seas, was an ideal site for merchants and wandering traders. Khazaria was buffeted on three sides by the Caliphate's Islamic forces to the south, Byzantium's Greek Christian forces to the southwest, and the barbarian Kievan Rus forces to the north.  In an act of geopolitical genius the Khagan, leader of the Khazars, converted to Judaism at some point in the seventh century in order to maintain a neutral balance of power in the region. The Jewish Khazars maintained dominance in the region until near the end of the 10th century at which point the Kievan Russians, who had converted to Christianity and  aligned themselves with the Byzantines, overturned the Khazar's rule.  The story of the ancient Khazars is an intriguing one that makes for a fascinating historical study.  They were the sole independent Jewish state ever to exist outside of contemporary Israel.  As can be seen from Marek Halter's Wind of the Khazars, the story of this mysterious Jewish kingdom also makes for fascinating fiction    Wind of the Khazars consists of two parallel plot-lines. The first is set in Khazaria from 939 to 955 a.d.  The cast of characters includes Joseph and Attex the young son and daughter of the Khagan. Joseph is, for all appearances, a brave young man and Attex a girl of incredible beauty.  As they reach maturity Joseph succeeds his father as Khagan.  Pressured by the Greeks he seeks to marry Attex off to the Emperor of Byzantium.  Enter Isaac Ben Eliezer who had been sent to Khazazria with a letter from the Chief Rabbi in Cordoba, Spain that sought to confirm the existence of a Jewish kingdom.  Attex, as stubborn as she is beautiful resists the arranged marriage. Isaac, once he arrives in Khazaria quickly becomes enamored of Attex's beauty.  At the same time Khazaria is under attack from the Rus.  As this plot line nears its conclusion the forces of the Khazars do battle with the Rus while jousting diplomatically with the Greeks.  Attex is separated from Isaac.    The second plot line is set in the year 2,000.  Marc Sofer, a French-Jewish author living in Paris runs into a rather shady Georgian who gives Sofer a rare Khazarian coin.  Sofer is soon drawn into a 21st century conflict in which a subversive group known as the New Khazars starts blowing up oil wells in the Caspian and Black Seas.  Sofer travel from Paris to Cambridge to Oxford and finally to the Caucuses in search of information and a mysterious woman, as beautiful as Attex, who seems to play a key role in the current day intrigue.  The plot lines converge as the novel reaches its climactic moments. The novel's ending was at once both tumultuous and bittersweet.    I enjoyed Wind of the Khazars.  I should add that I found some of Halter's writing a bit formulaic.  There were times, when Halter was discussing the romantic aspects of each plot ,that the writing seemed suited for a romance novel than for a piece of serious fiction.  However, this type of writing was not pervasive and the fast pace of the story line more than made up for any slight deficiencies in the prose.    When it comes to judging the merits of any piece of historical fiction, I am guided by how interested I become in the subject matter after reading the book.  I finished Wind of the Khazars with a renewed interest in the history of the Khazars.  After reading Wind of the Khazars I feel compelled to dig deeper into the subject matter and ordered additional books on the topic.  It is this renewed interest that earned Wind of the Khazars four stars. I recommend it to anyone with any interest in good historical fiction.	2005-03-15
US	52068296	R13LD90G6P643P	1400060508	228301658	The Turkish Gambit: A Novel (Erast Fandorin Mysteries)	Books	4	39	43	N	N	Another Excellent Erast Fandorin Mystery	Boris Akunin's Erast Fandorin series has been spectacularly successful in Russia. Akunin's books have sold millions of copies there.  Akunin, whose real name is Grigori Chkhartisvili, was born in (Soviet) Georgia. He grew up in Kazakhstan and then Moscow.  Highly educated, Akunin was a student of linguistics, editor of a scholarly literary journal and a Japanese-Russian translator.  He turned to writing these stories at age 40 during his self-described mid-life crisis.  He saw a niche between the serious tomes that marked Russian literature (Tolstoy, Solzhenitsyn, etc.) and the mass market pulp fiction that dominated the low end of the post-Communist literary market.  His book sales both in Russia and in Europe and the United States have proved him correct.  Turkish Gambit takes place in 1877. Russia is at war with Turkey after Russia and Serbia came to the aid of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bulgaria in their struggle to free themselves from rule by the Ottoman Empire.  The war had important implications for all of Europe.  The war was concluded at the Congress of Berlin, a congress that pretty much stripped the Russians of the gains they had made in the war.  The Congress of Berlin humiliated the Russians and paved the way for future unrest in the Balkans that eventually led to the First World War.  Newspaper reporters and others (including assorted spies) flocked to the battlefront from all over Europe.  This is the historical context in which we find Fandorin and the Turkish Gambit's cast of characters.   The story centers on a young lady, Vavara Surovova.  Like many children of the Russian aristocracy she considered herself progressive, smoked, enjoyed the pleasures of the flesh, and had a great disdain for Tsarist rule.  Nevertheless, she decides to travel from Moscow to meet up with her fiancé, a Russian officer serving in the corps of cryptographers.  No sooner does her journey start than she encounters a life threatening situation.  It is here that Fandorinmakes his initial appearance.  Although she has no small amount of disdain for the man who rescued her they make their way to the front, near the town of Plevna where the Russian army is laying siege to a Turkish stronghold. As the story progresses Vavara soon becomes the focal point not only of the romantic advances of the soldiers and reporters encamped near Plevna but also of the spies and counter-spies who are trying desperately to influence the course of the war. The intensity of the story and Akunin's writing builds as the siege reaches its conclusion.  As was the case in both Winter Queen and Leviathan nothing is truly as it seems and the layers of mystery created by Akunin are peeled away slowly by Fandorin. Akunin does an excellent job in maintaining the mystery throughout, even for those very familiar with plot devices and red herrings in stories of this sort.  One of the more interesting aspects of this series of books has been the marked change in the style of each book.  Winter Queen may be described as an action-adventure yarn with the young, optimistic and idealistic Fandorin racing from pillar to post, Indiana Jones-style, saving the world, or at least Moscow from some spectacularly murderous evil-doers.  In Leviathan, we see a more subdued, thoughtful Fandorin playing the role of Hercule Poirot in an Agatha Christie parlor mystery. Fandorin was not center stage but would appear at critical moments to use deductive reasoning to advance the story and solve the mystery.  In Turkish Gambit we see Fandorin in 19th-century spy mode reminiscent of Joseph Conrad's Secret Agent.  Fandorin is more involved in the action than in Winter Queen but is placed a bit off-center as Vavara and her mishaps takes center stage.  Turkish Gambit should not disappoint any Akunin fan that has been awaiting the publication of his third story in English.  The Turkish Gambit is a highly enjoyable period piece marked by good writing and better than average characterizations.  Turkish Gambit is the third Erast Fandorin mystery series translated into English, following the publication here of Winter Queen and Leviathan.  However, Turkish Gambit was the second in the series published in Russia.  For those new to Akunin's Fandorin mysteries I suggest beginning with Winter Queen, followed by Turkish Gambit and then Leviathan.    So far there are a total of eleven Fandorin mysteries published in Russia. Akunin has also written another four books in which Fandorin's grandson is a detective in contemporary Moscow.  I eagerly await the publications of these volumes.  Turkish Gambit was a delight and I do not hesitate to recommend it to anyone interested in a good yarn.	2005-03-08
US	52068296	RE4F5FFOHXNS7	0061054895	746993744	Soul Music (Discworld)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Too Old For Rock and Roll? Too Young To Die?	The answers to those questions and more may be found in Terry Pratchett's hilariously funny and thoughtful Soul Music.<br /><br />Soul Music consists of two parallel plot lines which, because this is Discworld and not the earth, converge as they reach the story's horizons.  First we meet Imp y Celyn, soon to be known to the world as Bud of the Holly or Buddy, as he travels the long and winding road from his home of Llamedos to Ankh-Morpork. Back home, Imp's music always made his people smile and he knew if he had a chance he could make some people dance and maybe they'd be happy for a while.  Unable to raise enough cash to join the musicians' guild, Buddy, after picking up a very odd guitar at a strange music store joins up with Glod the dwarf and Lias the troll and form a musical group.  In short order the group has a gig at the Mended Drum.<br /><br />In the meantime, DEATH is in the midst of his nineteenth nervous breakdown.  As DEATH walks through his land of broken dreams, he seems unconcerned about what becomes of those who should now be departed.  There will be disastrous consequences for the universe (see Reaper Man) if DEATH does not perform his obligations. The Death of Rats and his raven translator Quoth go desperately seeking Susan, DEATH's granddaughter.  She is persuaded by Death of Rats to fill in until DEATH can be found and persuaded to return to work.  Susan soon finds herself atop DEATH's horse Binky. She's eight miles high and when she touches down in Ankh-Morpork she enters the Mended Drum to meet her first assignment - - - Buddy. And then all heck breaks loose.<br /><br />Buddy starts to play the guitar just like he's ringing a bell and the world seems to stop. It may be that only the good, like Buddy, die young but in this instance Susan says something DEATH would never say: \\"it isn't fair\\".  Though no fault of her own, Buddy does not go up to that spirit in the sky, Buddy and his music live on. The obvious question becomes why is he still alive and to what purpose?<br /><br />\\"Music with rocks in\\" it becomes the next big thing. Even the wizards at Unseen University fall prey to these musical magic moments, so different and so new. Cut Me Own Throat Dibbler soon makes an appearance and rapidly transforms himself from purveyor of sausages to greedy rapacious rock and roll impresario. Soon, every kid in Ankh-Morpork wants to be a music with rocks in star.  They get electric guitars but don't learn how to play.  They think with their hair swung right and their pants too tight it will be all right.  Little do they know that in the crafty hands of CMOT Dibbler even musicians with talent will soon be in dire straights.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Susan, Death of Rats and even Albert, DEATH's loyal man Friday, search Discworld for DEATH.  DEATH has been seen sitting on the dock of the river in Ankh-Morpork, drinking whiskey and rye with the good ole boys at the Mended Drum, and standing guard at midnight at an oasis manned by the Klatchian Foreign Legion. His internal dialogue is priceless, funny, and thoughtful.<br /><br />Events proceed rapidly as Dibbler prepares the band for a huge free concert in Ankh-Morpork. This will be Discworld's Woodstock.  Will Susan's sense of justice prevail? Will Buddy survive even though the sands in his hour glass are long gone? Will the Librarian get money for nothing and his chimps for free? Will the wizards ride though mansions of glory in suicide machines?  The answers to these questions aren't blowing in the wind but they are in the book.<br /><br />As far as Terry Pratchett's Discworld books are concerned, Soul Music is near the top of the charts . . . with a bullet.<br /><br />Elvish has left the building.\\"Music with rocks in\\" it becomes the next big thing. Even the wizards at Unseen University fall prey to these musical magic moments, so different and so new. Cut Me Own Throat Dibbler soon makes an appearance and rapidly transforms himself from purveyor of sausages to greedy rapacious rock and roll impresario. Soon, every kid in Ankh-Morpork wants to be a music with rocks in star.  They get electric guitars but don't learn how to play.  They think with their hair swung right and their pants too tight it will be all right.  Little do they know that in the crafty hands of CMOT Dibbler even musicians with talent will soon be in dire straights.     Meanwhile, Susan, Death of Rats and even Albert, DEATH's loyal man Friday, search Discworld for DEATH.  DEATH has been seen sitting on the dock of the river in Ankh-Morpork, drinking whiskey and rye with the good ole boys at the Mended Drum, and standing guard at midnight at an oasis manned by the Klatchian Foreign Legion. His internal dialogue is priceless, funny, and thoughtful.    Events proceed rapidly as Dibbler prepares the band for a huge free concert in Ankh-Morpork. This will be Discworld's Woodstock.  Will Susan's sense of justice prevail? Will Buddy survive even though the sands in his hour glass are long gone? Will the Librarian get money for nothing and his chimps for free? Will the wizards ride though mansions of glory in suicide machines?  The answers to these questions aren't blowing in the wind but they are in the book.    As far as Terry Pratchett's Discworld books are concerned, Soul Music is near the top of the charts . . . with a bullet.      Elvish has left the building.	2005-03-02
US	52068296	R1Q856HP3J85EY	1400040523	802097993	William Pitt the Younger	Books	5	55	55	N	N	He Wears the Rose of Youth Upon Him	From Which the World Should Note Something Particular.  Shakespeare.    There was something astonishingly particular about William Pitt the Younger.  The second son of the Earl of Chatham (Pitt the Elder) was a child prodigy.  He was admitted to Cambridge at age 14, elected to Parliament at age 21 and appointed Prime Minister at age 24.  Twenty-two years later, of which twenty were spent as Prime Minister, Pitt died at age 46.     William Hague was something of a prodigy himself.  He gave his first major political address at a Conservative Party Conference in 1977 at age 16. Hague was elected to Parliament at age 28 and became the Conservative Party's leader at age 36, the youngest party leader in 200 years.  Hague's rhetorical skills, like Pitt the Younger, are excellent. Some observers (not all of them Conservatives) believed that Hague regularly bested Labour P.M. Tony Blair in debates in the House of Commons. After a losing the 2001 general election and the leadership of his party Hague was asked to write his Memoirs.  He indicated that an autobiography was approximately 40 years premature and sat down to write the biography of his idol Pitt the Younger instead.     Hague has done an excellent job here.  Although meticulously researched this is a readable, popular biography.  Hague's prose style is precise and flows very smoothly.     Hague quickly takes us through Pitts early years and the events surrounding his first election to Parliament.  His impact on Parliament was soon felt and within two years King George III twice asked Pitt to form a new government.  It was only when Pitt was certain that he could maintain control of a new government that Pitt accepted the King's offer when it was made for the third time.      The first nine years of Pitt's leadership were turbulent but peaceful and it was as a peacetime leader that Pitt demonstrated enormous administrative skills.  Pitt virtually created the mechanism by which any government oversees its finances.  By the end of that nine-year period Britain's financial position was better than it had ever been before.  It was this financial strength that facilitated Britain's survival during the three crises that marked the remaining years of Pitt's time in office: the madness of King George III, the foreign and domestic trials created by the French Revolution and the even greater trials created in the wake of the rise to power of Napoleon Bonaparte.      Hague's narrative style is straight forward and informative as he discusses Pitt's response to these crises.  The complexity of the parliamentary and political system of 18th century Britain was Byzantine to say the least.  However, Hague, because of his experience in Parliament, was able to explain those complexities without detracting from his narrative. This is no small accomplishment.    One of the most important aspects of the book for me was the discussion of the relationship between Pitt and his major adversary during his entire premiership, Charles James Fox.  Hague's discussion of that relationship made Fox quite appealing in many respects.  As Pitt steered Britain from crisis to crisis he turned increasingly to repressive measures (squashing free speech, toughening sedition laws and limiting the right to free assembly) to ensure Britain's security from perceived external threats to its security.  The largest threat of course was that of the anti-monarchical forces unleashed by the French Revolution.  Throughout Fox's years as the leader of the opposition he fought Pitt's repressive legislation every step of the way.  Fox stood squarely on the side of free speech and opposed to attempts to sacrifice his fellow citizens' freedoms on the mere declamation of a threat to security. He kept losing those battles but he did fight the good fight.     The battle over the balance between freedom and security is one that confronts us today.  Hague's concluding analysis discusses this issue at some length.  He is of course favorable to Pitt and defends him admirably.  It takes nothing away from the quality of Hague's writing to note that I fell more squarely into the Fox camp.     Hague pays a good deal of attention to Pitt's personal life, particularly his drinking. He was reported to have downed three bottles of Port a day.  There is little doubt that this undoubted alcoholism played a role in Pitt's early death.  Hague also spends time discussing the lack of women in Pitt's life. He does not shy away from the issue and analyzes in some detail the close relationship he had with his male colleagues.  I felt Hague's conclusions, that Pitt was one of those rare totally chaste people whose entire life was focused on one thing and one thing only, to be well founded if a bit speculative.    Hague has indicated that he intended and expected this book to be a popular history that could be enjoyed by any reader.  This book lived up to Hague's expectations and also to mine.  I recommend this book to anyone with any interest in British history.  It is enjoyable and well worth reading.	2005-02-25
US	52068296	RCCDSHGEKOU0L	0684834200	920034841	Autopsy for an Empire : The Seven Leaders Who Built the Soviet Regime	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Excellent Overview of the Rise and Fall of the USSR	In 1937, when Dmitri Volkogonov was 9 years old his father Anton was swept up in Stalin's purges, branded a traitor, and never seen again.  Despite, or perhaps because of, his father's alleged criminal activities, Volkogonov enlisted in the Soviet army in 1945. Rising to the rank of Colonel-General, he was appointed the director of the USSR's Institute for Military History, a position he held from 1985 through 1991.  From 1991 through 1993 he served as the head of the commission responsible for declassifying Soviet state papers located in their numerous archives.  As a result of these appointments Volkogonov had access to the archives of the Ministry of Defense, the Central Party, the General Staff of the Armed Forces and virtually every other Soviet institution where party ad military records were stored. In addition, he had access to Western documentary material not generally available in the USSR.  Relying heavily on those resources, Volkogonov penned well received biographies of Lenin, Trotsky, and Stalin.  Autopsy for an Empire, The Seven Leaders Who Built the Soviet Regime, was written while Volkogonov fought a last, losing battle against cancer.  He died shortly after the completion of this manuscript. <br /> <br />Autopsy for an Empire contains seven sections, each section analyzing the reign of one of the seven Soviet leaders: Lenin, Stalin, Khrushchev, Brezhnev, Andropov, Chernenko, and, finally, Gorbachev.  Although Volkogonov's writing is down-to-earth and covers a lot of ground in an efficient manner, he was not a historian by training nor was he a writer.  There are portions of the book that do not read as fluently as one would hope.  I think, however, that Volkogonov's use of previously unknown source material more than makes up for any deficiencies in his prose style. <br /> <br />Volkogonov's Autopsy tracks the arc-like trajectory of the Soviet Union.  He shows Lenin achieving and consolidating power both in the USSR and within his party while establishing the police state that reached its apogee under Stalin.  Subsequent to Lenin's death we are exposed to Stalin's rise to power, the consolidation of total power, his great purges and the fear and horror of the first days after the Nazi invasion.  It is clear, however, that Soviet power reached its peak during Stalin's years. The segment on Khrushchev takes a critical and relatively sympathetic look at a man who sat at Stalin's right hand during the last years of his regime but who managed to denounce the cult of Stalin and institute same slight reforms that came to represent what became known as \\"the thaw\\".  By the time we get to Brezhnev the ossification of the Soviet state seems to proceed at a pace similar to the increasingly visible ossification of Brezhnev himself.  The short-lived reigns of the already aged and decrepit Andropov and Chernenko are disposed of in short order. Finally, we get to Gorbachev, the onset of Perestroika, and the ultimate dissolution of the Soviet empire. <br /> <br />No single section of the book contains a fully formed biography of any individual Soviet leader and as such the book may be disappointing to some. Certainly there is a vast body of literature available about the lives of Lenin, Stalin, and to a lesser extent Khrushchev.  Yet, because the leader loomed so large in Soviet life, a nation effectively run from the top down, Autopsy for an Empire represents an excellent starting point for anyone looking for a good general overview of Soviet history.     <br />	2005-02-20
US	52068296	R2G97U070U3LES	0140186956	456745371	Kolyma Tales (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	140	142	N	Y	I Stand as Witness to the Common Lot,	Survivor of that time, that place.\\"  Anna Akhmatova, Requiem.<br /><br />Varlam Shalamov was a survivor of 17 years in the work camps of that time and that place known as Kolyma.  Upon his return to Moscow Shalamov crafted a series of short stories that memorialized his time in Stalin's labor camps.  Those 54 stories were not published in the USSR but were circulated widely in samizdat form.  They were publshed in the west as The Kolyma Tales. They are exquisitely well crafted, powerful, and moving.<br /><br />Shalamov's prose style is sparse and to the point.  The dry recounting of horror after horror has quite an impact on the reader.  In fact, the level of passion in Shalamov's writing seems inversely proportional to the nature of the scenes he paints; the more horrific the tale the less emotional the writing.  This is certainly an effective style.  Some facts do not need embellishment.  The stories speak for themselves.<br /><br />Shalamov also does not tell the reader how to interpret a story. He simply tells a tale.  Unlike Tolstoy and Solzhenitsyn, who had a tendency to tell a story and then advise the reader what lessons should be drawn from it, Shalamov simply tells a story.  In that sense his stories can be compared to Anton Chekhov and Isaac Babel.<br /><br />It would be impossible to summarize each individual story in a short review.  However, each was compelling in its own way.  I was particularly struck by a few of them.  The story \\"In the Night\\" concerns two men who sneak out of their barracks at night to dig up the grave of a newly deceased fellow prisoner.  Why? Because the wanted to steal his relatively new underwear so they could trade it in for bread and tobacco and perhaps live an extra day longer.  In Procurator of Judea a military doctor (not a prisoner) transferred from the front lines to Kolyma in order to accelerate his pension.  The stark, dry picture of surgeons performing dozens of amputations of the frostbitten limbs of prisoners arriving on a squalid vessel is only a page or two long.  It skips forward 17 years and notes that the doctor could remember the names of his orderlies but could not remember the names of the ship or any of its prisoners.  The story simply concludes by noting an Anatole France story. Procurator of Judea. In which \\"after seventeen years, Pontius Pilate cannot remember Christ.\\"  Simple words simply spoken speak volumes.<br /><br />I could not help but think  as I read these stories about the use of literature, of art, as a means of providing permanent testimony to man's inhumanity to man in a century that has witnessed more than its share of horrors. Elie Wiesel, a survivor of a different horror once wrote that \\"rejected by mankind, the condemned do not go so far as to reject it in turn.  Their faith in history remains unshaken, and one may well wonder why.  They do not despair.  The proof: they persist in surviving not only to survive, but to testify\\".  Varlam Shalamov not only survived but testified and in so doing left a beautifully conceived and executed testament to the lives of those men and women who never made it back home.<br /><br />This is a book that should be read, and read again.ners arriving on a squalid vessel is only a page or two long.  It skips forward 17 years and notes that the doctor could remember the names of his orderlies but could not remember the names of the ship or any of its prisoners.  The story simply concludes by noting an Anatole France story. Procurator of Judea. In which \\"after seventeen years, Pontius Pilate cannot remember Christ.\\"  Simple words simply spoken speak volumes.   <br /> <br />I could not help but think  as I read these stories about the use of literature, of art, as a means of providing permanent testimony to man's inhumanity to man in a century that has witnessed more than its share of horrors. Elie Wiesel, a survivor of a different horror once wrote that \\"rejected by mankind, the condemned do not go so far as to reject it in turn.  Their faith in history remains unshaken, and one may well wonder why.  They do not despair.  The proof: they persist in surviving not only to survive, but to testify\\".  Varlam Shalamov not only survived but testified and in so doing left a beautifully conceived and executed testament to the lives of those men and women who never made it back home.   <br /> <br />This is a book that should be read, and read again. <br />	2005-02-10
US	52068296	R2VPE57JV4XK67	0375508554	32798703	A Spectacle of Corruption: A Novel	Books	4	22	22	N	N	"We Know no Spectacle so Ridiculous as the British Public	in one of its periodical fits of morality.\\" Lord Macaulay.   <br /> <br />For England the year 1722 was not one in which the public engaged in a fit of morality.  No, 1722 was a year filled with plots to overthrow the Hanoverian King George in order to restore the Stuarts to the throne. It was a year in which the panic caused by the collapse of the South Sea Bubble came to a head.  It was, finally, a year in which a general election was held in which the Tories, thought to be sympathetic to the Stuarts, did battle with the Whigs, sympathetic to King George.  Many thought a Tory victory would lead to a restoration of the Stuarts.  Much was at stake. 1722 was a year of spectacles but it was a year in which an exceedingly dirty and violent election campaign turned the year into a spectacle not of morality but of corruption. <br /> <br />David Liss tosses Benjamin Weaver, the protagonist of his well-received Conspiracy of Paper, into the middle of this political maelstrom.  Weaver is a retired boxing champion and well known throughout London.  However, he is Jewish, and as such his boxing fame cannot provide him with an entry point in English life generally.  He is not permitted the right to vote and he would not be welcomed into most clubs or at most social functions. He works as a thieftaker (he finds stolen property and returns it to its owner for a fee) and a private investigator of sorts.  <br /> <br />Weaver is hired to find out who has been sending threatening letters to an Anglican priest who has been speaking out on behalf of oppressed dock workers.  Almost immediately upon commencing his investigation Weavers is arrested, tried, convicted and sentenced to death for the murder of a dockworker.  It is a murder Weaver did not commit.  It is clear from the start of the trial that the fix is in but as he is carried off to Newgate prison to await execution a mysterious woman slips Weaver the tools from which he manages to escape.  A wanted man, Weaver assumes a newidentity while trying desperately to unravel the events that triggered his being framed for murder. <br /> <br />It seems that Weaver's investigation on behalf of the priest has placed him in the crosshairs of both the Whigs and the Tories in the middle of the 1722 election campaign. Nothing is as it seems. Weaver cannot vote and does not therefore have an interest in politics.  This makes it even harder for him to analyze his situation.  His old adversary and fellow thieftaker Jonathan Wild plays a major role yet Weaver cannot understand why Wild might actually reach out to help him in his endeavors.  The love of his life, Miriam, also plays a major role.  She has, since Conspiracy of Paper, married a British aristocrat and converted to Christianity.  Her husband is running for parliament.  He may be a friend and ally but Weaver cannot be sure.  <br /> <br />Spectacle of Corruption made for a very enjoyable read.  It is difficult for anyone writing historical or political fiction to provide enough background material so that any reader can enjoy the full flavor of the book.  Liss does an excellent job of setting the table without turning the novel into a text book.  There may be parts where the complexities of the political system take a while to explain.  However, those explanations help the reader actually understand what Weaver is up against. More importantly, Liss keeps the story line going and does a good job keeping the excitement level up, even when the pace slows down a bit.  I think Liss has done a decent job fleshing out the personalities of his principal characters.  There seems to be more depth to the characters than existed in Conspiracy of Paper.  This bodes well for an eventual third volume. <br /> <br />All in all a book worth reading.	2005-02-08
US	52068296	R1MNAM0RH0II1M	0156027518	899540116	Journey into the Whirlwind	Books	5	82	87	N	Y	They Have Sown the Wind and They Shall Reap the Whirlwind.	\\"The Humanity of men and women is inversely proportional to their Numbers. A Crowd is no more human than an Avalanche or a Whirlwind. A rabble of men and women stands lower in the scale of moral and intellectual being than a herd of Swine or of Jackals.\\" So wrote Aldous Huxley.  Evgenia (Eugenia) Ginzburg's Journey Into the Whirlwind is a powerful memoir of one woman's descent, along with hundreds of thousands of others, to the rabble of men and women that were arrested, brutally interrogated and send to the Gulag in the Soviet Union during the great purges of the 1930s.    Sergei Kirov's assassination in 1934 provided one of the pretexts for the great Soviet purges of the 1930s. The purges and great show trials began in earnest in 1937.  Eugenia Ginzburg was a loyal party member, a teacher, and the editor of her local newspaper in Kazan, about 500 miles southeast of Moscow.  When she first heard of the mass arrests and imprisonments of loyal party members she was astonished that criminal elements had made their way into her party.  This astonishment increased when she (and her husband) was arrested. As with thousands of other victims, Ginzburg was taken to jail, subjected to repeated interrogations and, over the course of the next year or so, traveled from prison to prison where the process of interrogation and mistreatment was continued.  Ginzburg's memoirs in this volume continue through this initial imprisonment and her eventual transfer in cattle cars and a cargo ship to the frozen wasteland of Siberia.  The second volume covers her years in exile, her Siberian reunion with her sole remaining son Vasily Aksyonov (a tremendous writer in his own right), and her eventual `rehabilitation'.     There is a certain ineffable sadness to memoirs of the madness of the purges and the horrors of the Gulag. There is a numbing similarity in the descriptions of the deprivations, horrors, and, yes, stunning acts of grace and kindness experienced by those who lived to tell these tales.  As Stalin once said, one death is a tragedy, a million deaths is a statistic.  So I think it may be difficult for a reader to become emotionally invested in a book of this sort once he or she acquires more than a passing knowledge of the purges and the Gulag.  A certain protective detachment evolved for me after reading time and time again of life in the Gulag. Yet Eugenia Ginzburg's words were so compelling, so insightful, and so moving that this detachment was lifted.  Reading this book became an emotional experience. One example.  During the initial months of her imprisonment, prisoners were allowed to read only or two books a week.  Ginzburg, loved both poetry and prose would take her allotted book and devour it, soaking up every word. She and her fellow prisoners would memorize and recite whole chapters of their favorite books. She tells us that this provided her with a level of reading comprehension that she never experienced before.  Silly though it may seem, this heightened comprehension made me wish to revisit books I had already read just to see if it could gain more from them.    Ginzburg writes with clarity and captures the lives and characters of her fellow prisoners and her captors with equal insight. Her look back at her years of imprisonment is not filled with bitterness. Her observations are more acute for their lack of self-pity.  At one point Ginzburg explains that what kept her alive was not just fate but a will to survive \\"to live, to live no matter what.\\" Reading Journey into the Whirlwind is both a humbling and ennobling experience.    This is a wonderful book and I urge anyone with an interest in this subject or simply looking to see a person's life come to light via her memoirs to read Journey into the Whirlwind and the successor volume Within the Whirlwind.      In addition, if Ginzburg's books leave you with a desire to read more accounts of life in the Soviet Union and the Gulag in the 1930s I recommend [[ASIN:0140186956 KolymaTales (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)]] and [[ASIN:0520221524 Man Is Wolf to Man: Surviving the Gulag]].  Each book complements Ginzburg's exquisite memoirs.	2005-02-04
US	52068296	RTR2VZ5XF7CID	006102063X	51458965	Moving Pictures	Books	5	25	27	N	N	We Are Such Stuff As Dreams Are Made Of	. . . and our little life is rounded with a sleep.\\"  This snippet of Prospero's from Shakespeare's The Tempest, was beautifully ad libbed by Humphrey Bogart during the filming of The Maltese Falcon.  It pretty much sums up the experience I took out of reading Terry Pratchett's Moving Pictures. Life in Holy Wood, like life on Prospero's island is one where magical events occur encouraged by a host of spirits.  Since these magical events unfold in that piece of the universe known as Discworld, they unfold with wit, humor, and more than a bit of thought.    As the title suggests, Moving Pictures is Pratchett's take on Hollywood.  In a manner similar to his approach to Men at Arms, The Truth, and Going Postal, Pratchett takes the development of the motion picture industry and through the literary equivalent of time-lapse photography compresses it so that the reader experiences in a brief time span that which occurred over decades on our slower-moving planet.  The result is hilariously funny and made me shake my head and murmur, how did we let this nonsense happen.    CAST OF CHARACTERS: As a click trailer might say: Introducing Victor and Ginger (think Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers) as the leading man and lady of this epic. Also new to Discworld is Thomas Silverfish (think Samuel Goldwyn of MGM fame), the first big producer on Discworld.  As in Casablanca, Pratchett has also rounded up the usual suspects.  Cut Me Own Throat Dibbler (can't think of a character on earth that remotely resembles Dibbler!) and Gaspode (think Oscar Levant as played by a stray dog) are featured prominently and hilariously.  This is a big step up for these two contract players in the Discworld series! Rounding out the featured players is that zany group of performers known as the wizards, led by their fearless librarian (think the Keystone Kops meets Planet of the Apes).  And, as they say, a cast of thousands, including assorted trolls, an overly obsequious dog known as Laddie (think Lassie) and other delightful diverse denizens of Discworld.      THE PLOT: The plot is simple. It is about the power of dreams in a world, as Dibbler might say, \\"gone mad\\".  Dreams, particularly the dreams of Ginger, play a critical role in the book. A group of alchemists have invented movies or clicks as they come to be known on Discworld.  Fearing that such magic might anger the wizards of Unseen University the alchemists move out of Ankh-Morpork to a strange and wondrous place called Holy Wood. In what seems like only days, clicks become the next big thing.  People from around Discworld come to Holy Wood for no apparent reason other than a strange compulsion.  Perhaps mysterious forces are at work?  The excitement level gradually builds, the outlines of an evil, dark plot by the spirit world reveals itself as in a dream, until all heck breaks loose. Victor strives valiantly to save the universe with the wizards following close behind in a manner reminiscent of the Keystone Kops.  The climactic fight scene is both dramatic and hilariously funny.  Of course, the fun in any Pratchett novel is not the ending but the journey.  Hollywood references abound. It is always fun trying to spot some, even those which Pratchett may never have intended.  Dibbler's hilarious product placements and his `invention' of subliminal advertising were worth the price of admission.    Some have suggested that Moving Pictures is not as `good' as his other Discworld books.  There is an inference, perhaps, that it does not address profound issues relating to life, the universe and everything as was the case in Mort, Small Gods, or Thief of Time.  For me, however, the profusion of cultural gods (from Valentino to Pacino) created by Hollywood and its enormous impact on popular culture throughout the world seems just as worthy of the typical Pratchett treatment as small gods in the form of a turtle.  I also have to add that it was a pleasure seeing both Gaspode and Dibbler in more prominent roles.    All in all, as I finished Discworld I kept coming back to Bogart looking wistfully at the worthless Maltese Falcon that so many people had died in pursuit of their dreams. Perhaps for his next click, Dibbler can have Victor close by reminding the audience that, like Prospero:    Our revels now are ended: these our actors  As I foretold you, were all spirits, and  Are melted into air, into thin air:  And, like the baseless fabric of this vision  The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,  The solemn temples, the great globe itself,  Yes, and all which it inherit, shall dissolve,  And, like this insubstantial pageant faded,  Leave not a wrack behind: We are such stuff  As dreams are made of, and our little life  Is rounded with a sleep.     Th-th-th-that's all folks!!!	2005-02-02
US	52068296	R3VLLJ5QCGU76R	1559707399	259522020	The Earth and Sky of Jacques Dorme: A Novel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	"Hearing Oftentimes the Still, Sad Music of Humanity . . .	. . . Nor harsh nor grating, though of ample power to chasten and subdue.\\"  The graceful, elegant, yet ineffably somber prose of Andrei Makine calls to mind this passage by Wordsworth.  The Earth and Sky of Jacques Dorme, Andrei Makine's latest work is neither harsh nor grating.  Makine's prose plays like the dark-toned music of the lives of the narrators and its principal characters.    The story of Andrei Makine is a compelling one. Makine, for those not familiar with his work, was born in the Soviet Union in 1958. He emigrated to France as a young man and immediately assumed the role of a struggling writer.  Written in French (Makine learned French as a student in the USSR) his manuscripts were rejected by every publisher in Paris. He spent many nights sleeping in the Pere Lachaise cemetery in Paris.  Finally, out of desperation, he told one publisher that the manuscript of his first book was a translation from the Russian.  It was immediately accepted for publication.      Earth and Sky represents the third-volume of a loosely-structured trilogy. The first volume, Dreams of My Russian Summers won two of France's most esteemed literary prizes, the Prix Goncourt and the Prix Medicis.  The second volume, Requiem for a Lost Empire was also well received.  All of these books have been remarkably well translated by Geoffrey Strachan. Although Earth and Sky can be enjoyed in its own right, reading Dreams of My Russian Summers (not necessarily Requiem for a Lost Empire) first would enhance the reader's enjoyment of this work.    Earth and Sky consists of three separate but connected story lines over three generations.   It begins with a love story.  Jacques Dorme, a French pilot was a German prisoner of war. He escaped, fled east and manages to become a pilot in the Soviet Air Force.  He meets Charlotte during a brief furlough in a town outside of Stalingrad.  Charlotte, a nurse, is also French but has lived in the Soviet Union since the 1920s. They meet, fall in love but fate consigns them to a life together that must be spent in days, not years. Makine's opening sentence says it all: \\"The span of their life together is to be so short that everything will happen to them for both the first and the last time.\\"  As the story unfolds, Jacques is transferred to Siberia where, because of his superior flying skills he is tasked with ferrying new airplanes produced in the U.S. across the vast Siberian wilderness west towards the front.  Charlotte and Jacques never meet again.     We then meet the narrator, decades later, in Siberia determined to make a pilgrimage to the spot Dorme died, on a frozen mountainside.  The narrator had come from France, where he had lived for years after fleeing the old Soviet Union.  It is not at all clear why the narrator `needs' to make this pilgrimage.  It is simply clear that he knows it has to be made.    The story flashes back to the 1950s, the beginning of Khrushchev's thaw.  We find the narrator, an orphan, leading a generally miserable and lonely existence in an orphanage in the town where Jacques and Charlotte spent their brief lifetime together.  Charlotte's ramshackle living quarters provide the narrator with the only glimpse of daylight in his existence when he is allowed to visit her on weekends.  She is kind and grandmotherly.  She also has a treasure trove of French books stashed throughout the house. Over time the narrator learns French, with Charlottes help and discovers a world unknown to him.  As the novel concludes, the narrator is back in Paris attempting to explain the hidden life of Jacques Dorme to a surviving brother.      A brief recitation of the outline of Jacques Dorme cannot do it justice. As Makine has said in interviews, he could describe his stories in a few words, \\"the style is more important.  It is not the what, it's the how.\\"  Makine's style is graceful but controlled. The emotional substance of the book is implicit and not set out in excruciating detail.  Makine's description of the climactic scene in which he manages to spot the wreckage of Dorme's aircraft as the sun sets over a Siberian mountain, for example, is noteworthy not just for the beauty in which he sets the scene but also for his refusal to be explicit as to the emotional meaning of the event for the narrator.  Makine sets the stage but it is up to the reader to glean the subtext.    Thomas Jefferson once wrote that the \\"earth belongs to the living, not to the dead.\\"  For our narrator however, the earth and the sky must be shared with the dead.  The earth and the sky of Jacques Dorme seemed to me to represent (paraphrasing Wordsworth) the anchor of the narrator's thoughts, the guide and guardian of his moral being.      Andrei Makine has produced a compelling piece of work. The Earth and Sky of Jacques Dorme is well worth reading.	2005-01-26
US	52068296	R1BEVERY74MAHE	0316734519	128562699	Downtown: My Manhattan	Books	5	45	45	N	N	"A Great City is That Which Has . . .	. . . the greatest men and women. If it be a few ragged huts it is still the greatest city in the whole word.\\"   Whitman's words from his Song of the Broad-Axe never left me as I read Pete Hamill's wonderful book of his city, actually my city, Downtown.  <br /> <br />Downtown is part history, part-memoir. It is not a history of New York City as much as it is a history of Pete Hamill's New York City.  It is at once a very personal piece of writing but in its own way Pete's story is one immediately familiar to any New Yorker. The streets we grew up on may be different but each of our individual and distinct stories must share more than a small amount of  DNA with every other New Yorker for the last 300 years.  <br /> <br />I've never met Pete (calling him Hamill just doesn't sound right) but I've known him all my life. Pete is the child of immigrants. His family was part of the great wave of immigration that took the wretched refuse of those teeming shores and carried them not-that-gently to New York since the days of the earliest Dutch settlers. From the famine and oppression of Ireland (Hamill) to the pogroms of Russia (my family) they came.  They came from everywhere.  Like thousands of other immigrants or children of immigrants, Hamill's family struggled but made a life for itself.  My father found his way to one of New York's lower east side settlement houses and learned a trade (music) that served him and his family well his entire life.  Like Hamill, I remember the trips as a kid from Brooklyn and, in my case, Queens, New York to that city of proud towers known as Manhattan.   <br /> <br />\\"Downtown\\" is something of a walking guided tour. Hamill describes the building of lower Manhattan and its early history.  He plots the expansion of the city north up beyond the original walled street that became Wall Street. He traces the expansion of what he calls downtown up through to 14th Street and Union Square and then on up to 42nd Street and Times Square.  Along theway we read of his first trip to the city, the story of his parents' early life and hard times, and Hamill's own life and development.  Along the way a few things become obvious. Hamill loves his city even when he is remarkably candid about its shortcomings.  In China, the term for one's hometown is `native place'. It is a word soaked with more meaning than home and as I read through Downtown it was clear to me that New York, downtown particularly, was Hamill's native place.   <br /> <br />For me, it was fascinating to read Hamill's descriptions of life and the development of lower Manhattan through the years.  Like Hamill, I spent a good portion of my life working `downtown'. I spent more than a few years in the shipping industry, when that industry shared downtown with the Wall St. crowd. I was a messenger and ran documents to and from every building Hamill describes with  accuracy and fondness. From the Old Customs House to 17 Battery Place, 1 Broadway, 25 Broadway 90 West Street and all points in between.  I walked to work from my first  apartment on 12th street and 2nd avenue downtown every day. And, after taking dates home to Staten Island, I'd place myself at the front of the ferry so the breeze could keep me awake in the wee hours of the morning, and stand in awe as we glided quietly past the Statute of Liberty and watched the city's skyline loom bigger and bigger.  Pete's childhood vision of `the City' as Oz is singularly appropriate. <br /> <br />Although Pete spends a lot of time describing the geography of downtown and the architecture of the buildings that became a part of his New York experience, Downtown is not simply an architectural digest. At its heart is the story of the people that built those houses and lived in them.  It is said that \\"men make the city, and not walls or ships without men in them\\" and Pete is keenly aware of that. His feeling for the men and women that made his city is palpable. <br /> <br />You do not need to be a New Yorker tolove this book. Hamill knows, as did Whitman, that the place where a great city stands is not the \\"place of  the tallest and costliest buildings or shops\\" but, rather, stands in the hearts of people like Hamill's parents that arrive from distant shores to build those buildings and live their lives.  They continue to arrive today and Pete rejoices in it.  Pete Hamill's Downtown is a wonderful piece of writing.   <br />	2005-01-21
US	52068296	R3OE9SKMRAKIV5	0670033561	359169189	Rumpole and the Penge Bungalow Murders	Books	5	36	38	N	N	You Get Justice in the Next World: In This World You Get	Horace Rumpole!!!!  And it is a darn good thing for any defendant facing a criminal charge in London to have the rumpled, oft-scorned, and much condescended to Horace Rumpole take up your defense against all comers. <br /> <br />John Mortimer's latest Rumpole story, Rumpole and the Penge Bungalow Murders takes us back to the great barrister's first big case. The story is told looking back after a conversation in chambers convinces Rumpole to write his memoirs.  The story jumps back and forth between Rumpole's recollections of events interrupted only by the occasional (but highly amusing) bit of conversation with Hilda, she who must be obeyed, and his colleague in chambers. <br /> <br />It is the early 1950s and Rumpole is young, eager, and ready to begin his career as a trial lawyer (barrister).  He has found himself working for C.J. Wystan, the head of his chambers (firm) and the father of an assertive young daughter named Hilda.  Simon Jerrold has been arrested and accused of the murder of his father and one of his father's friends. Each of the deceased flew for the Royal Air Force during the Second World War and this was of no small consequence for the national press.  All the evidence available points to Simon as the murderer. A conviction seems a certainty to all, including Simon's lead defense attorney, Wystan.  Wystan has selected Rumpole to act as a silent assistant after Hilda suggests for some unknown reason that Rumpole is a man with a future in the law.  It should surprise no one that Rumpole does not bow down to the conventional wisdom concerning his client's guilt.  The story takes us through the remarkable series of events through which Rumpole assumes control of the defense and takes the case through trial.   <br />   <br />As always, Mortimer writes with wit and verve.  Mortimer first describes the appearance of Wystan as one that made him think of a \\"lobster who had been snatched from a peaceful existence at the bottom of the sea and plunged into boiling water.\\" Followed immediately by a slight retraction, \\"but I have no wish to be overly critical of my future father-in-law.\\"  <br /> <br />By taking us back to his first case as a callow, slender youth Mortimer has invigorated and fleshed out (no pun intended) Rumpole considerably.  We first came to know Rumpole as an aging overweight, hen-pecked curmudgeon who adheres to obsolete concepts of justice and the presumption of innocence when all around him expediency and decorum prevails.  Mortimer shows us flashes of this in Penge Bungalow.  We see the character traits: the wit, sarcasm and sense of fair play in its formative stages. We also find out how the young Ms. Hilda Wystan became the infamous she who must be obeyed. It is clear that once Hilda set her mind on something she is not easily denied. <br /> <br />The beauty of the Penge Bungalow Murders is our glimpse of Rumpole as a young man.  His character is immediately recognizable.  His body may have changed but his inner-self has remained constant.  As one of Rumpole's favorite authors once said in Merchant of Venice, \\"I never knew so young a body with so old a head.\\" <br /> <br />Rumpole and Penge Bungalow Murders is an excellent book and I have no hesitation in recommending it. <br />	2005-01-19
US	52068296	R1W4H63R5FLRJS	0684815001	763680226	The Cost of Discipleship	Books	5	242	249	N	N	"He Who Learns Must Suffer . . .	\\"And even in our sleep pain that cannot forget falls drop by drop upon the heart, and in our own despair, against our will, comes wisdom to us by the awful grace of God.\\"  These words of Aeschylus echoed through me time and time again as I read Dietrich Bonhoeffer's \\"Cost of Discipleship\\".  This was not an easy book to read. I do not think it was meant to be easy.<br /><br />Bonhoeffer was a person of limitless courage and faith.  Born 1906 in Breslau, Germany to a prosperous family Bonhoeffer studied theology and completed his doctoral thesis when he was 21.  He rose to some measure of fame in the 1930s by virtue of his writings and radio sermons.<br /><br />The rise of Adolph Hitler ran parallel to Bonhoeffer's own rise and it was opposition to the evils of Nazi-ism that compelled Bonhoeffer to put his words into actions, actions that cost him his life.  As is set out in the introductory memoir in this edition, Bonhoeffer understood immediately that Hitler and his national socialist ideology represented a grave threat to Germans, to Christianity, and to western civilization.  In a radio adress he gave in February, 1933 Bonhoeffer denounced Hitler and denounced his fellow Germans for accepting a corrupt and inhumane leader and system as its idol. Although Bonhoeffer spent a great deal of time living in England, safe from harm, he understood that he could not in good conscience \\"participate in the reconstruction of Christian life in Germany after the war if I do not share the trials of this time with my people.\\" Bonhoeffer returned to Germany in 1939 to take up the struggle against Nazi-ism. He had to have known that his return would lead to his death but he knew he could not do otherwise. He was called and he obeyed that call without question.<br /><br />Bonhoeffer was arrested in 1943 after being caught assisting the escape of a number of Jews from Germany.  On April 8, 1945, with Allied troops only days from liberating his prison, Bonhoeffer was executed on the orders of Hitler by the S.S. Black Guards.  One cannot read the Cost of Discipleship without an acute understanding that his writings on sacrifice, on obedience, and on the cost of grace were mirrored by his actions.<br /><br />Cost of Discipleships consists of a series of set pieces on grace, justification, and obedience to God.  This was a tough book to read for two reasons. First, I grew up in a tradition in which words like grace and justification were concepts best left for other denominations. I had to think about the meaning and context of those words in order to understand what he was saying. Second, Bonhoeffer does not speak to his reader in the manner of a kindly, easy-going grandfather. Rather, he speaks in the manner of the strict drill instructor in boot camp whose manner is designed to hit you in the face with your own (and his) inadequacies until you break. As you read further the purpose behind Bonhoeffer's harsh manner evidences itself.  Like the drill instructor his purpose is not to be harsh for the sake of harshness but to save your neck once you leave boot camp and make your way to the front lines. The drill instructor is harsh to help ensure your survival. Bonhoeffer is harsh to help one seek salvation through faith.<br /><br />The book begins with a section entitled The Call to Discipleship.  Each step of the way Bonhoeffer sets up a test, a test that this reader invariably fails each step of the way.  He discusses `cheap grace', the kind where \\"my only duty as a Christian is to eave the world for an hour or so on a Sunday morning and go to church to be assured that my sins are all forgiven.\\"  Bonhoeffer asserts that if one `believes' one must obey and if one does not obey they cannot believe.  He argues that prayer should be hidden, not public. Too often public prayer in churches is nothing more than `empty noise'.  Further, he suggests that our own good deeds, like our prayer, should be hidden.  If we perform righteous acts to receive a pat on the back from our friends or family it is valueless to God.  It was hard not to recognize myself every step of the way. It clearly must have been Bonhoeffer's intent to have us feel this discomfort and if so he did a remarkably good job of it.<br /><br />Bonhoeffer suggests that too many people feel they must know the path they are about to follow before beginning their spiritual journey.  In fact, Bonhoeffer claims the opposite is the case.  He argues that we will find out once we begin: \\"plunge into the deep waters beyond your own comprehension, and I will help you to comprehend even as I do.\\"<br /><br />The heart of Cost of Discipleship is found in Bonhoeffer's extensive examination of the Sermon on the Mount.  It is at once both illuminating and powerful. Again, Bonhoeffer's own life provides justification for the argument that the call to discipleship is not easy and will likely bring pain and suffering but that it can be done if one so chooses. The fact that I have no doubt that I lack the wherewithal to act in a similar fashion is both depressing and challenging.  How does one respond to such a challenge?  Such wisdom as I acquire from this book will, no doubt, come drop by drop and with no small amount of pain.<br /><br />This is a compelling book for anyone interested in matters of faith and the role of faith in contemporary society.	2005-01-13
US	52068296	R3684Y257I04YT	1400078636	274700893	Fatelessness	Books	5	70	72	N	N	Of Freedom and of Life he Only is Deserving	Who every day must conquer them anew. <br /> <br />These words of Goethe provide the emotional context within which I experienced Imre Kertsz' masterful novel Fateless.   <br /> <br />Kertesz was an assimilated Hungarian-Jew living in relative comfort in Budapest. In the summer of 1944 he was picked up and shipped to Auschwitz.  He was fourteen years old. He was transferred from Auschwitz to Buchenwald, from Buchenwald to Zeitz (a lesser-known concentration camp) and then back to Buchenwald.  He was liberated a year later and returned to Budapest.   <br /> <br />The life of Gyrgy (George) Kves, the protagonist of Fateless, tracks the experiences of Kertesz. The novel is written in George's voice and we see the world through his recollection of events.  (Kertesz has indicated in interviews that although Fateless takes the form of an autobiographical novel it is not an autobiography but a work of fiction.)  George is a relatively care free, naive 14 year old leading a middle class life with his family. As the story opens, the family is preparing to say goodbye to George's father who is being sent to a labor camp.  I was struck immediately by George's detachment as these early events unfold.  George obtains a job at a factory. This provides him with a pass out of his neighborhood although he is still required to wear a yellow star identifying him as Jewish.  One morning, on the way to work, he is swept up along with thousands of others and is sent on his journey into the seven layers of hell known as concentration camps.  The rest of novel details George's experiences in the camps, his gradual physical deterioration that leaves him near death, the chain of events that kept him alive, his liberation and his eventual return to Budapest. <br /> <br />I expected that any book that had the Holocaust as a central theme would be filled with vivid descriptions of the horrors found there and the emotional turmoil that any prisoner experienced. In fact, the opposite was the case.  George's narrative is, until the very end, devoid of emotion. It consists of a spare, narrative recitation of events.  I think the book was all the more chilling and had a greater emotional impact as a result. No words can adequately describe the horrors and misery and Kertesz does not really try. Rather, the emotion is inferred from the factual context.  At one point, George finds a mirror and looks at his image. He sees in himself the gaunt vision of shuffling prisoners that met him on his arrival at the camps.  He doesn't complain, he simply observes.  The observation is stunning not for its emotional content but for the very fact of it.   <br /> <br />I was also struck by the irony expressed in many of Kertesz' passages.  George, like Kertesz, was not particularly religious nor did he speak the lingua franca of many European Jews, Yiddish.  Despite his presence in the camp he was rejected by many of his fellow prisoners because he was not, in their eyes, sufficiently Jewish. He didn't know Yiddish nor did he know enough Hebrew to recite the Kaddish, a prayer for the dead.  George's camp experience was one of double isolation.  <br /> <br />George's emotions only rise to the surface upon his return to Budapest after liberation.  He is on a trolley, filthy and malnourished. He can feel the scorn and snickering of his fellow passengers and seethes with anger, an emotion seemingly permitted to enter into his life now that his freedom is assured.  He returns to his family apartment only to find that it has been appropriated by another family. His family and friends tell him to put the camps into his past, but he can't, it is an experience that will never be `in the past'.  Kertesz, in his Nobel Prize lecture sums it up thusly: \\"By which I mean that nothing has happened since Auschwitz that could reverse or refute Auschwitz.  In my writings the Holocaust could never be present in the past tense.\\" <br /> <br />The novel ends with George pondering the meaning of life and fate. He posits that those that accept fate can never be free and those seeking freedom cannot do so if the live by the axiom \\"it is written\\".  The closing puts George's whole camp experience in a new perspective.  Some struggle outwardly for freedom. George's struggle was completely internalized.  His struggle for life itself was a struggle to be free.  As the Russian novelist Vasily Grossman asserted in his book Forever Flowing, \\"there remained alive and growing one genuine force alone, consisting of one element only - freedom. To live meant to be a free human being.\\"   <br /> <br />The story of George Koves is the story of a young boy who struggled every Day for freedom and for life and conquered them anew. It is a powerful book and one that I cannot recommend too highly. <br />	2005-01-07
US	52068296	R10MM86C8FZZMI	0375506322	170819182	Stalin and His Hangmen: The Tyrant and Those Who Killed for Him	Books	5	78	84	N	N	Stalin's Willing Executioners	Baudelaire once wrote: \\"I am the wound and the knife! I am the blow and the cheek! I am the limbs and the wheel - The victim and the executioner!\\"  In many respects that sums up the lives of Stalin's (and Lenin's) henchmen that ran the USSR's security apparatus from the Russian (October) Revolution through the death of Stalin. Donald Rayfield's \\"Stalin and His Hangmen\\" provides an excruciatingly morbid examination of the men and the organization that facilitated Stalin's rise to total power and the means they used to achieve that end. <br /> <br />Rayfield, a professor of Russian and Georgian at the University of London, has provided a scholarly, yet compelling history of the men who built and maintained the Soviet security regime.  As stated in his preface, Rayfield's purpose in writing this book was not to add yet another biography of Stalin but, rather, to examine the means by which Stalin gradually assumed total power in the USSR.  He does so by focusing on the men who facilitated that rise to power by creating a brutally efficient killing machine exceeded in the 20th century only (perhaps) by Hitler's Holocaust. <br /> <br />Rayfield focuses on the lives and bloody career of five leaders of those security organs (commonly known by a succession of acronyms or initials, the Cheka, GPU, NKVD, MVD, MGB, and KGB): F. Dzerzhinsky, V. Menshinksy, G. Iagoda, N. Ezhov, and L. Beria.  Along the way we see the machinations that caused the ousting of Trotsky from power and his eventual murder.  Rayfield explores the role the security organs played in Stalin's cat-and-mouse games with Bukharin, Kamenev, and Zinoviev and his suppression, imprisonment, and/or murder of the Russian Orthodox Church, ethnic nationalities, kulaks, and millions of enemies, real or imagined  None of this is particularly new ground for anyone with an interest in the subject matter. However, Rayfield, by examining these events with an eye towards the symbiotic relationship between Stalin and his hangmen, manages to cast a fresh eye on old horrors. <br /> <br />Hannah Arendt coined the phrase banality of evil.  Although it has a certain ring of truth to it Rayfield's look into the lives of these leading `Chekists' shows that some, if not all of them, were far from banal. Some considered themselves poets and tried to develop relations with the Soviet intelligentsia (before sending them to the Gulag). They each managed to kill hundreds of thousands of Soviet citizens, including many lives taken by their own hands.  They each, with the possible exception of the rather puritanical Dzerzhinsky, were perverse (their sexual depravity was legion and is well chronicled here) and brutal psychopaths. Yet some, particularly Beria had exceptional managerial skills and a broad range of intellectual interests. Ultimately, they all knew that the fires of death they fueled would ultimately consume them yet, like moths to the flame they stayed on until the bitter end of their own lives, as Baudelaire put it, both victims and executioners. <br /> <br />Rayfield does not attempt to explain why these Chekists played out their horrible roles with such gusto.  I'm not sure an explanation is possible and I think it was a wise choice to avoid exploring the myriad motivations behind such collective complicity in horrible acts.  I think it sufficient simply to set out the lives of these men and their separate and collective relationships with Stalin and let the facts speak for themselves. <br />Although a scholarly work, Rayfield's prose is accessible to anyone with an interest in Soviet history.  Highly recommended. <br />	2005-01-03
US	52068296	R125D01LV5TTOR	0945774257	266169785	Tales from Two Pockets	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Wonderful Stories from a Czech Legend	The fourth Earl of Chesterfield once admonished his son to \\"wear your learning, like your watch in a private pocket: and do not merely pull it out and strike it; merely to show that you have one.\\" The stories contained in Karel Capek's \\"Tales From Two Pockets\\", unlike Chesterfield's watch, are worth taking out and reading again and again and again.  <br /> <br />Karel Capek played a pivotal role in Czech arts, literature, and politics in the years of the first Czech Republic. He was a playwright and, with his brother, authored \\"RUR\\", the play that introduced the word robot to the world. His novel War With the Newts remains today one of the great pieces of dystopian fiction. His life and work during this period was inextricably linked with a strong belief in the newly born Czechoslovakian Republic. Capek's devout faith in democracy and his aversion to both fascism and communism was well known. His intimate socio-political relationship with Czech President Tomas Masaryk served as an inspiration to Vaclav Havel the artist who became president after the Velvet Revolution.   <br /> <br />The 48 stories in Tales From Two Pockets first appeared in print in 1928 in a Prague newspaper.  They were known as pocket tales because presumably the newspaper could be folded and placed in ones coat pocket after getting off the tram. Immensely popular the first 24 stories were published in book form as Tales from One Pocket. The remaining 24 stories were originally published as Tales From the Other Pocket. This edition, published by Catbird Press (which has done a marvelous job of publishing English editions of Czech masterpieces) and excellently translated by Norma Comrada, contain all 48 tales.   <br /> <br />To call the first 24 stories detective stories would not do them justice.  They do tend to involve a murder or a crime of some sort but Capek stands the genre on its head. They involve more than the solution of a crime. Capek tends to work around the crime to look and spin small stories that tell us a little bit more about human nature than about the crime business.  Each story contains a snippet; they are too short to be an exegesis on humanity. But each snippet is worth reading and after you read one or two you can put them in your pocket and start all over again. <br /> <br />The second 24 stories each flow from one into another.  Think of a group of people sitting around a table in a bar. One tells a story about a crime or some other foul deed. After one story is finished someone pipes in and announces, \\"I can top that\\".  They stories flow seamlessly one to another.  Again, no single story packs a huge `message' but cumulatively they are thought provoking and provocative.  It should also be mentioned that the stories are also just fun to read.  Capek was one of the first Czech authors to write in colloquial Czech. His writing style was not formalistic and stilted. He wrote the way people talked and his stories are all warmly told and engaging. <br /> <br />So, put these tales in your pocket and pull them out whenever you'd like to lose yourself for a little while in the world of little mysteries created by Karel Capek.	2004-12-31
US	52068296	RW8CJNFAU8FQT	1594200300	61896554	Making Friends with Hitler: Lord Londonderry, the Nazis, and the Road to War	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Variations on a Londonderry Herr	There are no shortage of biographies of people who are \\"larger than life\\". Less abundant are the stories of history's lesser players who, when all is said and done, are smaller than life. The much hyphenated Charles Stewart Henry Vane-Tempest-Stewart, the seventh Marquess of Londonderry was one such smaller than life figure. Kershaw, in his \\"Making Friends With Hitler\\" has devoted an entire book to Lord Londonderry and has managed to set it out in an informative and entertaining fashion.     Londonderry was not intelligent, perceptive, politically astute, or charismatic. Winston Churchill, a cousin, referred to him as \\"that half-wit Charlie Londonderry.\\"  He was known in the press as the Londonderry Herr due to his pro-German, if not pro-Nazi, proclivities and for his well-known desire to become a private statesman and make friends with Hitler and his ilk in order to keep Britain out of war.    Kershaw uses Londonderry as a vehicle through which to re-examine Britain's relations with Germany from Hitler's accession to power through the commencement of WWII.  The simple picture usually painted is one of the British political establishment conducting its ill-thought out policy of appeasement while Churchill stood alone crying in the wilderness.  The situation was far more complex than that. Kershaw uses the antics of Lord Londonderry to set out Britain's foreign policy in the context of the day.  Kershaw does not `excuse' Britain's foreign policy makers for the steps that led invariably to war with Hitler. He does, however, provide a detailed description of the many reasons why, by 1936 or so, Britain had no viable option other than to appease Hitler and hope for the best.    Irresolvable conflicts of interest between France and Britain rendered a unified approach to an emerging Germany impossible.  France's primary interest in the years after WWI was in its own security.  The idea of making concessions from the admittedly ill-conceived Treaty of Versailles did not find fertile ground in France, particularly those that involved disarmament. Britain's goal was multilateral disarmament. Disarmament was almost universally supported in Britain by all political parties.  Popular support for disarmament was fueled by revulsion towards the horrors and carnage of WWI.  Political support for disarmament was fueled by a worldwide depression that made cutbacks in military spending both politically expedient and economically wise.    There was a strong feeling in Britain that German antipathy to the Versailles Treaty was understandable.  British government suggestions with regard to revisions to Versailles were inextricably linked, however, to disarmament proposals. France opposed any such linkage and stalemates ensued. Hitler played this difference in national aspirations like a maestro.  He managed to rearm, re-occupy the Rhineland, eviscerate the Versailles Treaty, and then annex Austria while France and England failed to craft a unified, coherent, response.      Londonderry played an interesting role in Britain's relations with Germany. A descendant of Lord Castlereagh, the architect of the settlement at the Congress of Vienna, Londonderry inherited incredible wealth. Londonderry believed that he was born to rule and lacked nothing but talent. His wealth and connections led to his appointment as secretary of state for air in 1931 by Ramsay MacDonald. Londonderry was a strong proponent of the air force and promoted the development of Hurricanes and Spitfire, the aircraft that later served Britain well in the Battle of Britain. He was pro-German and anti-French by inclination but believed that this friendship should be backed by a strong military.  This was not an irrational position and if Londonderry had stuck to this position he legacy may have been considerably stronger.     However, he was an inept administrator and subject to embarrassing mistakes. During a period in which pacifism was a strong political force his speech supportingthe use of bombers as a means of policing the Empire (including, ironically the British controlled oil-fields in Iraq) caused a great deal of embarrassment for the British government.  Londonderry was sacked by Stanley Baldwin after he succeed MacDonald as Prime Minister.  Devastated, Londonderry embarked on well-publicized private campaign to save Britain from the professionals in the foreign office. Critically, he forgot his earlier argument that military strength should form the underpinning of Britain's relationship with Germany, and assiduously sought out the friendship of the Nazi leadership. Even absent a strong military, Londonderry believed he could charm Hitler into good relations.     If the successive governments of MacDonald, Baldwin, and then Chamberlain can be thought of as proponents of appeasement, the forces of Londonderry and many of his well-born peers can be thought of as proponents of `appeasement-plus'.  In essence, MacDonald, Baldwin, and then Chamberlain took something of a middle road. It is clear from the source material used by Kershaw that at least from 1935 or 1936 the British government had few delusions about Hitler's intentions. However, they were constrained severely by their low level of military preparedness and a general unwillingness of the British population to take any steps to confront Hitler that might bring the parties to war.    Kershaw does an admirable job in exploring the social,political, and economic forces that helped shape 'appeasement'.  Kershaw points out that critical decisions concerning disarmament and the economic pressures that resulted in dramatic reductions in military spending up through 1936 or 1937 rendered a forceful response to Hitler (in the absence of concord with France) little more than a bluff. Kershaw also shows that the British government(s) was buffeted not only by Churchill but also by Londonderry and those fellow travelers who felt that Hitler was something of an anti-Bolshevik savior.     Making Friends with Hitler is an academic piece of writing and is meticulously annotated and footnoted.  However, the writing style is fluid and unpretentious. It can be enjoyed by a reader seeking a popular history as much as by someone with an academic interest.	2004-12-28
US	52068296	R2GPZUIDPODESL	0061020680	116769240	Mort	Books	5	32	34	N	N	DEATH Takes a Holiday!	When we mere male mortals reach a certain age we sometimes, aware that we are closer to our future death than our past birth, start to act up. We trade the 1981 Honda Civic in for a Corvette convertible, quit our old job to write a great novel, and have even been known to trade in our wives or significant others for a younger, newer model. It's known on Earth as a mid-life crisis.  But on Discworld, and in the hands of the master Terry Pratchett, a banal mid-life crisis is turned into another one of his hilarious and thought filled romps. Through Pratchett's hilariously skewed prism this crisis is not being experienced by a mortal but rather by the harbinger of death, the aptly named DEATH. What we have is a mid-death crisis. Death may, like an ever-rolling stream, bear all its sons away but DEATH seems more than a bit tired of doing all the bearing away. <br /> <br />Terry Pratchett's Mort tells a rather simple tale. DEATH is looking for an apprentice. Young Mortimer, one of life's simple trusting souls is a young man with little career prospects. He is ungainly and spends a bit too much time thinking random thoughts. Mort's dad and relatives find him to be a well-intentioned but generally useless young man.  Dad has been told that becoming an apprentice will get Mort off his hands and teach him a trade. So off to town they go for `apprentice day' in the market square.  As luck would have it, DEATH arrives and takes Mort on as his apprentice. <br /> <br />Mort develops in the expected Pratchett manner. The relationship between Mort and DEATH, and the chores Mort performs to learn his trade, seem very similar to that in the movie Karate Kid. Shoveling poop is not immediately relevant to learning how to become the messenger of death yet Mort takes to his tasks well.  Mort seems to enjoy living at DEATH's house and enjoys the food prepared by Albert, who may not be quite what he seems. He doesn't seem to get along to well with DEATH's daughter, Ysabell but that againmay not be quite what it seems. <br /> <br />Within no time DEATH is entrusting Mort with more responsibility while he experiments with drinking, dancing, and a stint as the best short order cook in Ankh-Morpork. Meanwhile, Mort, left to his own devices makes a mess of things in short order. Specifically, Mort falls for the heavenly charms of a Princess and fails to bring her over to the next world.  This of course causes no end of confusion as the natural order of things on Discworld has been greatly disturbed. <br /> <br />As with most Discworld books, events proceed at a furious pace followed by a conclusion that, like death itself, is inevitable. For any Pratchett fan, of which I am one, the joy in the journey and not in getting to the conclusion.  Along the way we are treated to the usual array of cultural references and little jokes. When Albert mutters \\"s-odomy non sapiens\\" under his breath Mort asks what that means to which Albert replies \\"buggered if I know.\\" When DEATH notes he is closing out a bar, alone, at a quarter to three, Pratchett tracks the lyrics to Johnny Mercer and Harold Arlen's \\"One for My Baby\\". It is priceless. <br /> <br />Last, this is a stand-alone Discworld book.  Although some recurring characters make cameo appearances the reader does not really need to be overly familiar with any of the other Discworld books to enjoy Mort.  Mort was a pleasure to read.	2004-12-19
US	52068296	RQSWT2G06268R	0061092177	497629870	Small Gods	Books	5	48	53	N	N	Annuncio Vobis Gaudium Magnum Habemus Testudo Dei	Rough translation: I announce to you with great joy, we have a turtle God. That should have been the announcement that greeted the arrival of the God of the City of Om upon his return to Om.  Unfortunately he was greeted by stunned disbelief by his sole remaining true believer.  Since the size and power of any God/god on Discworld is directly proportional to the level of belief in each God's by its adherents this god is but a turtle.  Out of such co-dependent relationships are small gods and Terry Pratchett's Small Gods made.  <br /> <br />Co-dependent seems an apt term in this context. In Small Gods, Pratchett looks at organized religion through the prism of the co-dependant relationship. This theme is set against a backdrop which, if filmed, would have been produced by David Lean and looked remarkably like Lawrence of Arabia. (The Omnian attack on Ephebia and Brutha's trek with Vorbis across the desert between their cities both left me with images of Lawrence's attack on Aqaba and his disastrous trek across the desert with his youthful assistants.)  Specifically, Pratchett examines the co-dependency of man and his God(s). Each is entirely co-dependent on the other. The plot, including the hilarious deus ex machina climax, has been well summarized in the product description and in other reviews so I'll confine myself to a few random observations. <br /> <br />No matter how deeply philosophical the underlying theme, the potential reader should know that Pratchett is an excellent writer and capable of some of the funniest lines and paragraphs you are likely to encounter in fiction. Pratchett introduces the Ephebians' leading philosopher Dydactylos thusly: His philosophy was a mixture of three famous schools -- the Cynics, the Stoics and the Epicureans -- and summed up all three of them in his famous phrase, \\"You can't trust any bugger further than you can throw him, and there's nothing you can do about it, so let's have a drink.\\" It is no small compliment to state that the passage reminded me of Month Python's Philosopher's Song. <br /> <br />Pratchett's sharp tongue and wonderful sense of humor does not detract from his ability to get a point across.  For example, the villain of the piece, Vorbis is engaged in diplomatic negotiations with the leader of the Ephebians, known simply as \\"the Tyrant\\".  \\"Slave is an Ephebian word. In Om we have no word for slave,\\" said Vorbis. \\"So I understand,\\" said the Tyrant. \\"I imagine that fish have no word for water.\\"  In context, this exchange is simply brilliant. Small Gods is full of these little pearls. <br /> <br />Pearls, actually, form the basis of my final thoughts on Small Gods.  I think it clear that Pratchett does not look kindly upon the excesses and brutalities committed in the name of God(s).  However, those who do maintain such a belief system should not construe that as an attack on faith itself.  I think one can liken the philosophies expressed by Moses, Jesus, or Buddha for example as a grain of sand.  The grain of sand can be perfectly beautiful but because it serves as something of a societal irritant when first expressed it becomes covered with layer upon layer of outer covering until it evolves into a pearl.  Now that pearl can be beautiful but it can also completely obscure the pure beauty of that grain of sand.  So too with the trappings and dogma of oragnized relgion.  When doctrine and dogma take pride of place the beauty of the idea is lost and can turn horrid.  Vorbis' role as leader of the Omnian inquisition is no accident.  The comparison between Vorbis and Brutha is beautiful for its symetry.  Vorbis is all form and structure but totally devoid of content, of soul.  Brutha is close to being the opposite.  As we look at the trappings of our own faith (those of us that choose to have one) it might not be a bad idea to examine whether or not the trappings of that doctrine obscure the initial meaning and purity of the ideas around which those trappings were created.<br /> <br />That any author, particularly one so consistenly funny, can evoke such a thought process,  is, perhaps, a minor miracle.	2004-12-07
US	52068296	R13P4KPLQL9GOS	0786868767	964050438	Koba the Dread	Books	2	13	21	N	Y	Excellent Idea: Flawed Self-Indulgent Execution	The concept behind Martin Amis' Koba The Dread had  promise. Its stated goal was to examine the apparent willingness of many left-leaning 20th century intellectuals to overlook the worst excesses of the Soviet regime. The book was designed to explore why those same intellectuals who would be the first to man the barricades in opposition to Franco's Spain, Pinochet's Chile, or the Colonels in Greece could, at the same time find reasons not to condemn or even to excuse the great purges and the labor camps of the Gulag, the Hitler-Stalin pact, and the Soviet suppression of liberal movements in Hungary, Poland, and, finally, Czechoslovakia in 1968.    Sad to say, Amis was not up to the task he set.  Although well-written, the book is overly self-indulgent and superficial.   The book is divided, into three parts. Part I, approximately one third of the book contains general background information on Amis and his `credentials' for writing the book.  Those credentials include his reading of the historian Robert Conquest's Reflections on a Ravaged Century and his presence at a celebration of the end of the millennium along with Tony Blair and the Queen.  The remainder of Part I explores Amis' coming of age in a family in which political discourse formed the focus of dinner table and other conversations. It also contained more than a bit of information about Amis' education and early work experience. Last, he touches on some of the political developments in post-revolutionary Russia including an overview of Lenin and the formation of the earliest labor camps.  Although interesting, it provides nothing more than a cursory overview of the issues allegedly at the core of the book.  Part II, which constitutes more than a half of the book, is entitled Iosif the Terrible: Short Course. This is a two-fold play on words as Stalin fancied himself as a latter day version of Ivan the terrible and wrote a book entitled \\"Short Course on the Soviet Union.\\"  The overview reads well. Amis is, clearly, a good writer. However, it does not contain any new research or original thought. Rather, as Amis acknowledges, it is a summary of many books Amis has read on the subject, specifically Conquest's The Great Terror.  Again, anyone coming to this book with even a passing knowledge of Soviet history will find one half the book superfluous.  Part III, a mere 34 pages, addresses the question posed on the book cover as its central theme, \\"the indulgence of communism by intellectuals of the West.\\"  Part III consists of a Letter to a Friend (Christopher Hitchens) and an after word addressed to his late father.  Although both are touching and deeply personal in their own way they never really did get to the heart of the question.   The question posed was a decent one. But I left disappointed.  I gave the book three stars because, despite my disappointment, it was well-written.  I also realize that the book could serve as a valuable introduction to readers new to Russian/Soviet history who might wish to dip their toes into the subject matter.  This is not a bad place to start.  However, I would not recommend this book to anyone with more than superficial knowledge of the subject matter.  At best, this should have been a magazine length article.	2004-12-03
US	52068296	R305V67HLWU0P9	0684872544	967310766	Wolves Eat Dogs	Books	5	108	114	N	N	Arkady Renko's Journey to Chernobyl's Heart of Darkness	I have read and enjoyed Smith's previous Renko novels. Renko's erratic career path as a police inspector has seen him survive, barely, the apparatchiks of the Soviet regime (Gorky Park). He has survived its imminent demise (Polar Star) and the emergence of bloody cowboy capitalism (Red Square). Now, in Wolves Eat Dogs, Renko must operate in a Russia dominated by an elite group of billionaire oligarchs.      The primary setting of Wolves Eats Dogs is the 30-kilometer evacuation (or exclusion) zone in the northern Ukraine, just south of Ukraine's border with Belarus, surrounding the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. On April 26th, 1986 the number 4 reactor at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant exploded after a planned test shutdown went seriously wrong.  The subsequent release of radioactive material (cesium and strontium) is estimated to have reached levels exceeding 40 times the amount of radioactivity released by the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  The short and long term effects of this explosion, particularly on the Republics of Belarus and Ukraine has been devastating. For example, the phrase \\"Chernobyl Necklace\\" refers to the ubiquitous ear-to-ear scar worn by Byelorussians and Ukrainians that have had thyroid cancer surgery. The thyroid cancer rate is estimated to be up to 2000 times greater in Belarus than in the general world population. Smith's eye for details makes note of these scars.  The Chernobyl disaster has special resonance for me as I have spent five years involved with a Children of Chernobyl program that brings children from Belarus to the United States for six week health and respite visits.  The dark world that Martin Cruz Smith portrays in Wolves Eat Dogs tracks remarkably well with accounts I have heard from Byelorussians and Ukrainians about life after Chernobyl.  Smith made numerous trips to the exclusion zone and his investment in time and first-hand research bears fruit. It is into that dark world that fate and police work brings Inspector Arkday Renko.    A billionaire oligarch, Pasha Ivanov, is found dead outside his high-rise Moscow flat. All evidence leads to the conclusion that Ivanov has taken his own life by jumping from his penthouse apartment. Renko is not so sure and decides to conduct his investigation despite the clear displeasure this evinces up and down the police ladder and amongst the surviving owners of Ivanov's company.  In this, Renko's stubborn, principled independence has not changed at all since he first came to view in Gorky Park.  When a second related death occurs in the 30-kilometer exclusion zone surrounding Chernobyl, Renko's superiors are pleased to pack him off to investigate the death in the Ukraine. The majority of the action takes place in the exclusion zone.  Renko plods on despite himself and despite attempts by virtually everyone to leave things alone.      It is impossible to say more without revealing too much of the plot. However, it seems to be that in Wolves Eat Dogs we have seen Martin Cruz Smith at his finest.  Smith does not devote any time to fleshing out the personal side of Renko. However, the similarity between the inner-life of Renko and the stark, despairing, world of the exclusion zone is unmistakable. It is at once a moving and tragic reflection of the life lived by Arkady Renko.  Smith's portrayal of Renko, life in the exclusion zone, and his development of the plot from start to finish is first rate. This is a book worth reading.	2004-11-28
US	52068296	R122TG5FWS8J98	0380818191	476581890	The Truth (Discworld)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Pratchett Impregnated By Aliens: Gives Birth to "The Truth"	Two random images occur frequently when reading a Terry Pratchett Discworld book. The first is of time lapse photography, the type used in nature or wildlife programs. One can see a seed planted, germinate, sprout, and then blossom into a flower in a manner of seconds even though it might take weeks to occur in `the real world'. The second is of a frog in a pot of water. It is a time worn cliché that if you throw a frog into a pot of boiling water it will leap out immediately. However, if you drop a frog into cool water and gradually bring it to a boil it won't think about jumping out until it is too late.<br /><br />Terry Pratchett has a marvelous habit of taking devices or institutions that have developed over time in our word and subjecting them to the literary equivalent of time-lapse photography when he imports them into Discworld. Typically, the devices, be they guns (Men at Arms), movies (Moving Pictures), or the modern postal system (Going Postal), are introduced and evolve very quickly., In presenting us with guns, movies, or postal networks formed in such short order Pratchett highlights the perversions these great inventions are subjected to over time that are not so readily apparent when you live through the gradual changes. The reader, like the frog, is presented with a proverbial pot of boiling water and, no doubt, on reflection must ask him or her self, how in the world did we ever let things go this far?  This is exactly what Pratchett does with the newspaper business in The Truth. As you witness the time-lapsed development of the institution known to us as the press you cannot help but shake your head and say, how did it ever come to this?<br /><br />The plot has already been well summarized on the product page. Suffice it to say, Pratchett does his typically splendid job setting up the establishment of Ankh-Morpork's first newspaper by the aptly named William de Worde. The cast of characters includes Otto, the vampire photographer.  Otto is freshfrom the vampire equivalent of a 12-step program and struggles mightily to avoid a relapse.<br /><br />Of course the press needs to have a story and Pratchett gives us the Ankh-Morpork version of Watergate.  A crime has been committed and the Patrician, Lord Vetinari, is the prime suspect. It appears in fact to be something of an open and shut case. Of course, the truth is not always what it appears to be. De Worde soon comes to suspect that perhaps, just perhaps, the oligarchs that don't suffer Vetinari all that gladly just may have something to do with all this.<br /><br />Every investigative reporter needs a source and Pratchett gives us the Ankh-Morpork version of Deep Throat, this time in the form of Pratchett's most intelligent creations, Gaspode, the talking dog. Call him \\"Deep Bark\\" perhaps. The words Pratchett puts in Gaspode are pure Pratchett and are funny and insightful. Also worthy of note is Pratchett's characterization of the inevitable collision of the press with the police in the form of the dealings between de Worde and Command Sam Vimes.<br /><br />Events wend their way to their inevitable conclusion. Will Commander Vimes be forced to `round up the usual suspects' or will de Word uncover that elusive thing called the truth? Inquiring minds want to know!<br /><br />The Truth is up to Pratchett's usually high standards and will be enjoyed by both Pratchett old timers and those new to Discworld.  For newcomers, the Truth is an excellent place to start.	2004-11-22
US	52068296	R1P4BXZB7HZYAF	006076340X	92756786	The Final Solution: A Story of Detection	Books	5	126	142	N	N	Chabon's Exquisite Take on the Detective Story	Michael Chabon's The Final Solution, A Story of Detection is an exquisite book.  Chabon, who reexamined the golden age of comics in the Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Klay, takes up the detective novel.  <br /> <br />Final Solution is set in the Sussex Downs, in Southern England in the summer of 1944. The Allies have just invaded Normandy but the war is far from over. An 89-year old man, retired to a life of quiet bee-keeping, sits looking out his window and spies a young boy strolling along some railroad tracks with a large gray parrot on his shoulder. The old man deduces that the young boy is about to do himself in and drags himself out of his chair and makes his way to the boy. The boy, Linus Steinman, turns out to be a young Jewish-German refugee, recently escaped from the horrors of occupied and resettled in England by a refugee agency.  He is mute and generally uncommunicative.  The only sounds emanating from the direction of the boy come from the extraordinarily loquacious parrot who comes out with an apparently never-ending stream of numbers, spoken in flawless German. <br /> <br />It is the talking parrot and the meaning of the random numbers that form the heart of the mystery of the Final Solution. Chabon then introduces us to the rest of his cast of characters. The mute Linus lives in a small boarding house owned by the Reverend and Mrs.  Panicker.  Mr. Panicker, of Malayan origin, seems to have lost his faith and seems merely to be treading water. Mrs. Panicker seems unloved and unwanted except for the meal she provides her boarders, until the mysterious Mr. Shane intervenes in an argument between Mrs. Panicker and her ne'er do well son. Mr. Shane, despite claiming to be in the dairy equipment business seems far more intriguing than his occupation suggests. The parrot incites interest and speculation on all concerned. What do those numbers mean?  <br /> <br />Speculation and the possibility of untold wealth at the end of the random number mystery invariably lead to the murder of one of the characters. Additionally, the mysterious parrot has been stolen. Of course, the bumbling local constabulary immediately focuses on the wrong party. Into the breech steps the old man. It turns out the 89 year old bee-keeper was once a world famous detective. Still smoking a pipe and still mocking constables, the old man goes about seeking a solution to the crime.   <br /> <br />Chabon does not provide the name of this old man but it seems clear that he could be none other than the great Sherlock Holmes. Readers of Sherlock Holmes know that Holmes retired to Sussex Downs to spend his remaining years as a bee keeper.  The title of the book, Final Solution, provides another clue. Although clearly relevant to the as yet undiscovered horrors of the Holocaust implicit in Linus profound silence, it also calls to mind A.C. Doyle's The Final Problem, the famous Holmes tale where Holmes was thought to have died after falling at the Reichenbach Falls.   <br /> <br />Although short, only 131 pages, Chabon has invested his characters with depth and nuance. His portrayals of both the old detective, Linus, and Mrs. Panicker are compelling. He even manages to invest Bruno the parrot with insight into the `human drama' unfolding before him. <br /> <br />This is an excellent book. Be prepared to read it in one sitting. It is that good. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-11-16
US	52068296	R93LDYT9T51HX	0679642730	342199313	Grant and Twain: The Story of a Friendship That Changed America	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Let Us Now Praise Famous Men	Mark Perry's Grant & Twain, The Story of a Friendship That Changed America is a good book burdened with an unfortunate title.  Perry tells the story of the relationship between U.S. Grant and Mark Twain in the last years of Grant's life. The story describes in great detail the circumstances surrounding the writing by Grant and the publication by Twain of Grant's Memoirs.      <br /> <br />Perry describes Grant's rise from obscurity, a string of commercial failures, and an otherwise undistinguished military career before becoming commander of the victorious Grand Army of the Republic in the U.S. Civil War. Grant went on to serve two relatively undistinguished terms as President of the United States. Subsequently, Grant retired to New York, entered the business world, made a small fortune, lost it, and declared bankruptcy. In an act requiring great personal integrity, Grant promised to pay back all his creditors in full, something not required of him under the bankruptcy laws. He also set out to earn sufficient money to ensure that his family could live in ease in comfort. It was here that Twain enters the picture. <br /> <br />Perry also provides an overview of Twain's life in a fashion similar to that set out about Grant.  By 1884, when Perry's story begins in earnest, Twain was already one of America's most famous authors. Twain had his finger in many pies, he was an inventor, investor, and, critically for this story, a publisher.  As did most Americans of the age, Twain idolized Grant. He had met Grant before and they had struck up something of a friendship.  Grant had begun work on a series of articles for a then highly popular magazine, Century Magazine. The first of the articles enjoyed great success and Grant agreed to write his memoirs.  Competition for the publishing rights was fierce. Twain prevailed. <br /> <br />The rest of the book focuses on Grant's struggle to write and complete his memoirs. He had just been diagnosed with throat cancer. Knowing full well that death did not lay far down the road for him, Grant set to work. Perry is at his best when describing the courage and determination of Grant. The pain he must have felt as the cancer spread was palpable. The completion of Grant's memoirs pretty much coincided with his death. Those Memoirs are thought of by most who have read them as perhaps the most compelling, well-written Presidential memoirs written.  <br /> <br />Perry's book consists of two parallel stories, that of Grant and that of Twain. Surprisingly, given the title, there is little evidence of more than a modest amount of contact. There is little material support for the proposition that there was anything so special about the relationship that it could reasonably be said to have changed America.  There are some interesting tidbits here.  Twain had started his masterpiece, Huck Finn, some time ago but seemed to hit a road block around Chapter 16, when Huck & Jim make their way down river to Cairo.  Twain, during this time re-traced Grant's battles that took him down river from Cairo to Vicksburg and points south.  Perry theorizes that this trip may have provided Twain with the story-line for the rest of Huck Finn.  Perry admits he has no direct support for this proposition so it is merely that, a proposition.   <br />Where Perry excels is his discussion of race in America as a focal point for Grant, for Twain and for America both in mid-19th century America and today. <br /> <br />There is probably nothing in Grant & Twain that anyone with a deep and abiding interest in either Grant or Twain does not already know. To that extent, this book is probably not for Twain or Grant scholars.  However, it is a well-written account of a chapter in the lives of two famous men, each of whom made and changed history in his own way and is well worth reading.  <br />	2004-11-08
US	52068296	RWF38QQ8WNRB0	1400060184	739143398	Dark Voyage: A Novel	Books	4	83	85	N	N	Furst's Dark World at War Goes to Sea	Dark Voyage represents something of a departure from Alan Furst's previous series of historical spy novels set in Europe just before and during the Second World War.  Typically, Furst's novels are land-based and are set in cafes, bars, and furtive meeting places in Bucharest, Prague, Berlin, and Paris.  His protagonists are typically Polish, Rumanian, Russian, and French migrs or refugees caught in a tangled web of espionage, and counter-espionage as the NKVD and other underground groups do battle with the Nazis. Deceit is the rule, not the exception.  It is a world of night and dark shadows.    <br /> <br />Dark Voyage, at least on the surface, is a bit different.  Dark Voyage is not set amongst the smoky bistros of occupied Paris, Bucharest, or Warsaw. The action is set at sea, on board the M/V Noordendam, a Dutch cargo ship captained by Eric deHaan. The Noordendam, an aging tramp steamer nearing the end of its useful life at sea, is pressed into service by the Royal Navy.  DeHaan and his crew and and passengers, including a Polish engineer, a Jewish medical orderly fleeing the Nazis, a beautiful Russian `journalist' fleeing in fear from her Soviet bosses, and others are asked to undertake three missions, each one more dangerous than the last. The Noordendam, repainted and sailing under the colors of a sunken, neutral Spanish merchant ship, the M/V Santa Rosa delivers munitions and supplies to the British Expeditionary Forces in Crete; transports British commandos to conduct a raid on the North African Coast in Tunisia; and then up through the Baltic Sea on a secret mission that could save Britain from annihilation during the blitz. <br /> <br />Despite this difference in setting the essential elements that render Furst's novels so downright enjoyable remain in place. First, Furst has never painted his characters in a superficial black-and-white way. His `heroes' are flawed and their motivation is often as self-interested as those of the `villains'. Furst's evocation of his characters is both subtle and nuanced. The Nazis were, in fact, true villains but the battles waged against them were not always undertaken by knights in shining armor but by incredibly flawed, if well-intentioned human beings.  Second, Furst's prose is not at all tendentious or overly self-important. He paints extraordinarily vivid word pictures that capture not just the light but, more importantly, the shadows of a world engulfed in a horrible war.  Third, life is not full of happy-endings. Not every story has the type of closure one might hope for. Furst does not go for cheap endings. The story may end, not always happily, but it is clear that the life of his characters will go on. The reader may hunger for more as he or she hits the last page, but for Furst at least, our endings are ahead of us. The war goes on and so must the lives of his characters.  <br /> <br />Some have expressed disappointment in this novel or indicated that it does not quite live up to the high standards one has come to expect from Furst. I respectfully disagree.  Heightened expectations often lead to disappointment. I think the high expectations one sets for a writer of Furst's caliber often leads to disappointment when each novel is not markedly better than the last. I, for one, enjoyed this book as much as his previous work.  The setting and cast of characters was different to be sure but the quality of Furst's writing and his ability to tell a compelling story remains unchanged. I enjoyed this work. <br />	2004-10-20
US	52068296	R3DW68EA1OVAHM	0618509283	528177434	The Plot Against America: A Novel	Books	4	334	363	N	N	Roth's 1940's America: A Short Step from Fascism and Despair	It is an oft-stated clich that many families are but one or two paychecks away from poverty. Philip Roth's \\"The Plot Against America\\" suggests that perhaps U.S. society was, in 1940, one election surprise away from fascism.  The Plot Against America also suggests that many families are but one step away from falling into dysfunctionality and despair.  Although such a topic is susceptible of trite, formulaic prose, in the hands of Philip Roth it works remarkably well. <br /> <br />The story line is rather simple. Taking on the genre of alternate history (with which he shares with no small amount of irony at least some creative DNA with Newt Gingrich), Roth imagines a United States in which Charles Lindbergh storms the deadlocked 1940 Republican Convention, upsets Wendell Wilkie for the nomination, then barnstorms the nation in a novel election campaign that ousts FDR from the White House. Vote for Lindbergh or Vote for War serves as the victorious campaign slogan. Slowly, but inexorably, U.S. isolationist policy grows stronger after it signs a non aggression pact with Germany and Japan. Britain grows weaker, and Lindbergh's cabinet and the Republican congress enact a series of laws that cause no small bit of consternation in America's Jewish community. <br /> <br />So far, there is nothing about the story line that is at all unusual in the alternate history genre.  However, Roth writes his story through the eyes of one Phil Roth, youngest child of the Roth family of the Wequahic section of Newark.  This alone sets The Plot apart from what is typically found in this genre. Roth's examination of the lives of big events through the eyes of a `little' man creates a subcontext that is rife with meaning for anyone who has experienced the joys and despairs of a family in crisis. <br /> <br />The Roth family, generally enjoying the rising working class/middle class fruits of life in mid-20th century America suddenly sees its internal world ripped asunder by these big events. The Roth family is, as is most of their Jewish neighbors, horrified at Lindbergh's election and justifiably fearful of what lies ahead. Unfortunately, their fears are well founded. Roth's Plot is as much, if not more, the story of the reaction of one family to this alternate history as the story of a nation at war with itself.  <br /> <br />If Roth can be faulted for painting his alternate history with a broad and perhaps overly simpistic brush he cannot be faulted for the depth and insight into the life of a family tempest-tossed by a society gone mad. It is nuanced and meaningful.  Roth's writing can be, and often is, stunning.  As has always been his habit when he is on form, Roth is capable of crafting beautiful sentences and paragraphs. By looking at world-shattering events through the prism of a young man's eyes those events take on additional meaning because they can be understood on a familial rather than on a societal level. <br /> <br />Roth does have some fun with the historical figures that appear throughout the book. Walter Winchell, once the country's most famous radio reporters (and also the voice over narrator of the old Untouchables television series) leads the post-election campaign against Lindbergh and his cronies, most notably the viciously anti-Semitic Henry Ford. FDR and Fiorello LaGuardia also play important roles in Roth's alternate universe.   <br /> <br />There are, no doubt, many readers that will resent what seems to be an attack on a person with the heroic stature of Lindbergh.  That may be so, yet Roth does not go over the top in my opinion and by book's end does evoke more than a bit of sympathy for Lucky Lindy.  Similarly, many have asserted that Roth's approach to the 1940 election, and the quasi-fascist oppression that followed, contains a rather blunt allegory to the 2004 election campaign. To that extent, no one should doubt Roth's probably political point of view. Again, that may be so. However, as if clear from the book's ultimate resolution (which should be left undisclosed in a review) that this society can sustain and repel challenges to the type of authoritarian regime imposed in Roth's alternate history is a far more optimistic world view than some of Roth's critics may credit him with. <br /> <br />Possible allegories aside, this is one of Roth's best efforts in recent years and I think that there is much to be gained by reading the book, no matter where ones current political sensibilities find their home. His prose is more concise than it has been for some time. For the first time in a long time, Roth seems more interested in telling a story in comprehensible declarative sentences than in creating sentences that do little more than establish his credentials as a `serious' writer. The Plot Against America can be enjoyed on any number of levels. It is not simply a parable of contemporary society and can be enjoyed simply for the quality of the writing. <br /> <br />	2004-10-19
US	52068296	R2HPWNY4DINUCB	0060013133	123160839	Going Postal: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	105	113	N	N	The Sting: Terry Pratchett Style	Terry Pratchett's (\\"TP\\") legions of fans do not need a review of Going Postal. They have no doubt already purchased Going Postal or eagerly await its arrival in paperback. This review is for those new to TP.     Background:     Terry Pratchett: Rafael Sabatini begins his swashbuckler \\"Scaramouche\\" with the line \\"he was born with a gift for laughter and a sense that the world was mad and this was his patrimony\\".  TP shares this patrimony.  It is accomplishment enough to produce the sheer volume of work put out by TP. However, to combine this volume with a consistently high level of brilliant, funny, and original prose is simply amazing.      Discworld:  Discworld is the alternate universe created by TP in his many books on the subject.  Although this universe may share about 95% of our genetic code it is populated by a series of characters not really known to us here on this planet (at least as far as we know). TP's world travels through space like a frisbee, supported by four giant elephants standing on the back of a giant turtle. Living amongst the mere mortals is a cast of characters that include trolls, dwarfs, zombies, and more than a few wizards.  They are not thought of as being particularly unusual, they are just there and live and work just like everyone else.  The capital of Discworld is Ankh-Morpork (\\"A-M\\"), ruled by a rather witty despot known as the Patrician Vetinari.  There is a recurring cast of characters.  Although the books do tend to reflect the development of these characters each book does stand on its own and does not need to be read in any particular order.    Going Postal:     Going Postal is TP's most recent effort. It is hilariously funny. Think of the movie The Sting with Redford and Newman as if it had been directed by Hunter S Thompson and you will have some idea of the plot.  A very successful, if generally low level con man named Moist Van Lipwig has been caught, sentenced to die by hanging, and been hung.  However, he did not quite die. He wakes up to find himself in the chambers of the Patrician Vetinari and told he may live if he decides to take over the operation of the A-M post office. Understandably enough, he accepts the assignment. His work is overseen by the A-M equivalent of a parole officer, a clay Golem (an ancient life like monster in medieval and Jewish mythology). Moist has never spent an honest day in his life and does not really intend to begin now. The postal service has basically ceased operations for years and the post office headquarters is drowning in undelivered mail.  Gradually, Moist feels compelled to actually re-start the mail service.  Gradually, and more than a bit grudgingly, Moist's rather narcissistic view of the world changes a bit as well.  Moist's effort is not well received by the owners of the Grant Trunk clack system, the semaphore-based message delivery service run by Reacher Gilt.  The last thing Gilt wants is competition. While Moist may see himself as a low-level con artist, Moist sees Reacher Gilt as a master of the con and evil on a scale far grander than anything ever accomplished by Moist. The story unfolds and turns into a battle of the con men: David (Moist) against the Enron-like Goliath (Gilt). Revealing anything more would spoil the story.     As with all Discworld books the main enjoyment to be had lies in the journey and not the destination.  It is hard to explain how enjoyable it is to turn the page and find a sentence that is either down right funny or else contains some sharp observation on human nature.  It is hard to be too glowing in this regard.    As mentioned, the Discworld series does follow some loosely structured order.  However, Going Postal is as good a place to start as any. First, only one recurring character, Vetinari, plays a significant role in the book. The others make only cameo appearances. Second, the story set out in Going Postal does seem very self-contained.    I very much enjoyed this book and have no hesitation at all in recommending it to anyone whether they are new to Pratchett or old hands.	2004-10-13
US	52068296	R37APDCNQD563W	0670033405	239837122	The Mystery Of Olga Chekhova: Was Hitler's Favorite Actress a Russian Spy?	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Excellent Exploration of a Little Known Life	Anthony Beevor's \\"Mystery of Olga Chekhova\\" is a fascinating book. Beevor has taken a little known episode in Soviet (and German) history and managed to create a book that reads more like a novel.  As I read \\"Olga\\" I was constantly reminded of the noir-like novels of Alan Furst, whose tales of Soviet espionage and counter-espionage center on tales of similar acts of espionage taken on by Russian and other East European migrs in the 1930's and 1940's. <br /> <br />\\"Olga\\" is about the life of one \\"Olga Chekhova and her family.  A niece, by marriage, of the great Anton Chekhov, Olga left the Soviet Union under mysterious circumstances to pursue an acting career in Berlin. Olga's family, mostly actors and musicians stayed behind. Olga went on to become a famous film star in Germany and was highly regarded by Hitler, Goering, Goebels, and the rest of the Nazi leadership.  She married a Luftwaffe pilot (later killed in action) and performed for the troops during the war.  In the meantime, her family continued to thrive in the USSR. This alone was a remarkable and mysterious achievement when one considers the fact that the families of so-called enemies of the state generally suffered far worse. The question addressed by Beevor is simple: Was Olga a Soviet spy and, if so, what did she do and how did she do it? <br /> <br />Beevor traces Olga's life and her relationship with the Chekov family.  His descriptions of Russian and Soviet Theater, particularly his overview of the family's relationship with Stanislavski and the Bohemian and lurid life-style common to the period are particularly interesting.  Given the nature of the book and novel-like story line I think it would be inappropriate to reveal much in the way of details.  Unlike Beevor's other works, such as Stalingrad, the events and final outcome of the story are not well known and it would be unfair to spoil the story. Needless to say, the story of Olga Chekhova is fascinating. <br /> <br />Last, this book is something of a departure for Beevor.  Previously, he has focused on grand events, Stalingrad, the Fall of Berlin, and the Spanish Civil War.  Here he covers less familiar and far more intimate ground.  Despite the fact that Beevor cannot answer all the questions he raises in \\"Olga\\" he carries off this micro-history with aplomb.  His writing style is not overly academic and the book is accessible to any reader. Further, Beevor sets out sufficient general background information such that the reader does not need to have a background in Russian or German history in order to make the book enjoyable.   <br /> <br />Beevor has done an excellent job and I think \\"Olga\\" is well worth reading. <br />	2004-09-22
US	52068296	R1OGK78ASNOBPL	1584652071	993767831	Sakharov: A Biography	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Wonderful Biography of the Moral Conscience of a Nation	Nadezhda Mandelstam once wrote that \\"a person with inner freedom, memory, and fear is that reed, that twig that changes the direction of a rushing river.\\"  Andrei Sakharov, scientist and father of the Soviet H-bomb, was such a twig, a twig that helped changed the course of Soviet and Russian history.   <br /> <br />How does a man evolve from being a relatively apolitical nuclear physicist in the 1940s to being the moral conscience of a nation striving for democracy by the time of his death in 1989?  How does a man who was offered and provided all the material comforts available to the preeminent scientist in the USSR turn away from those temptations and choose, instead, to stand a lonely vigil outside kangaroo courts intent on hounding dissidents who dared to speak out against the Soviet regime?   <br /> <br />Lourie's marvelous biography of Sakharov does a fine job of setting out both how and why Sakharov evolved from a hero of the USSR with direct telephone access to the Kremlin into a pariah who was hounded, slandered, and finally sent into internal exile in the closed city of Gorky. Yet, by the end of his life, Sakharov, this mere twig, managed to face down and indeed outlast those that set the political might of a nation against him. <br /> <br />Lourie comes to Sakharov with an impressive background in Russian and Soviet history and literature.  He has translated numerous works of fiction, including works by Vladimir Voinovich, and also translated Sakharov's Memoirs. (The tragic story of the destruction of numerous drafts of Sakharov's Memoirs by the KGB is set out in detail in Lourie's biography.)  <br /> <br />Sakharov is set out in a straightforward, chronological fashion. It begins with Sakharov's family background and his childhood and early adult years. Lourie moves relatively quickly through Sakharov's birth in 1921 and his childhood and teen years.  Sakharov , along with his families supported the Soviet regime.  Dissent was not an issue for them.  Sakharov always considered himself a loyal patriot devoted to the Soviet Union.  Lourie sets out in detail Sakharov's early interest in math and the sciences and his academic development. By the time World War II had started it was clear that Sakharov would have a career in the sciences. <br /> <br />After the German invasion of Russia, Sakharov quickly found work in the area of munitions. It was here that Sakharov had his first run-ins with authority.  Unlike many of his colleagues who was willing to brook interference from unknowing Commissars. Fortunately for Sakharov his suggestions and mechanical innovations were critical in aiding the Soviet war effort and he was allowed far greater flexibility in his approach to work and science than many of his peers. <br /> <br />Lourie then traces the path that took Sakharov from improving the quality of tank shells and munitions to being the lead scientist in charge of the development of the Soviet atomic and H-bombs.  Here Sakharov crossed paths with Stalin, Beria, and most of the other leaders of his time.  It is clear that Sakharov would not have survived a failure.  Sakharov was committed to the project and believed developing these weapons were in the best interests of Russia.  The projects were successful and Sakharov became something of a national hero.  It is here that Sakharov's life began to change. <br /> <br />He was provided almost unheard of access to the Soviet leadership.   He had direct phone lines to the Kremlin.  Gradually, Lourie shows Sakharov repeatedly refusing membership in the Communist Party.  He also began taking up the causes of his fellow scientists who were treated unfairly by the apparatchiks that dominated all areas of life.  He didn't hesitate to pick up the phone and complain to Khrushchev <br /> <br />As Sakharov grew increasingly distanced from the Soviet regime, the regime grew increasingly intolerant of Sakharov's actions.  Sakharov's dissidence evolved from one focusing on small issuesto issues of internal democracy and global peace.  It is clear that if Sakharov did not possess a vast array of nuclear secrets he would have been subject to the exile in the same manner as Alexandr Solzhenitsyn and Vladimir Voinovich.  At the same time, Sakharov was awarded the Nobel Peace Price.  The Soviet authorities were as put off by this award as the award of the Nobel Prize for Literature to Boris Pasternak.  The authorities finally did exile, but to the closed city of Gorky. There he was harassed and harried on a daily basis.   <br /> <br />It should be pointed out that Sakharov became famous throughout the world for his dissident activities.  However, Lourie's examination of Sakharov focuses almost exclusively on Sakharov from an internal, domestic view point.  I believe this was a wise choice as the West actually knew very little of what Sakharov actually was going through during those years. <br /> <br />Lourie's Sakharov is not an exercise in pure idolatry however.  Lourie does not fail to note the lack of warmth, in fact the animosity, between Sakharov and his children from his first marriage (his first wife died after over 20 years of marriage) once he met and married Elena Bonner.  <br /> <br />Sakharov was, of course, a scientist and Lourie had to address certain scientific concepts and issues throughout the course of the book.  His treatment was precise yet understandable to the lay reader. <br /> <br />Lourie's writing is precise and to the point.  He lets Sakharov's actions speak for themselves and does not engage in an excessive amount of self-indulgent psycho-analysis of Sakharov.  Lourie treats his readers as adults and he allows the reader the opportunity to read the story of Sakharov's life in a manner that allows us to ponder exactly how any man can become a twig that changes the course of history.   <br /> <br />This is a book worth reading. <br />	2004-09-20
US	52068296	R3EH6U2VYWZLYM	0945774346	978277350	Apocryphal Tales	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	History of the World: From a Slightly Different Angle	Karel Capek was a giant of Czech cultural and political life in the years of the first Czech Republic between WWI and WWII.  Èapek rose to fame as the author of RUR, the play that introduced the word robot to the world.  He was also the author of the highly acclaimed novel War With the Newts and a newspaper essayist.  His life and work during this period was inextricably linked with belief in democracy upon which the First Republic was founded.  Capek's devout faith in democracy informed both his world view and his writing. This is particularly evident in his Apocryphal Tales. This edition also contains a group of stories known as the Would Be Tales.  Generally, these stories were originally published in Czech newspapers or literary journals.     Apocryphal Tales is a journey through the history of the world.  In a series of short stories from the discovery of fire through Napoleon, Capek presents a little vignette with a viewpoint slightly different from our received wisdom.  The tales begin with the Punishment of Prometheus, in which Prometheus is sentenced to death for his discovery of fire.  The grounds: blasphemy; damaging the property of others; and treason.  Next, an old cave man bemoans the audacity and idleness of the younger generation, wasting their time drawing bison and other creatures on cave walls.  A solider complains about Achilles' vain striving for glory in doing battle with Troy.  Next we come across a letter from Alexander the Great to Aristotle in which he tries to explain to his old teacher that his desire to conquer the world is based purely on the need to more properly defend his small homeland.  When one considers that this last piece was written in 1937 the tale is as much a cautionary note as it is a simple story. The Death of Archimedes is also prescient. Written in April, 1938, it shows a conquering Roman soldier trying to convince Archimedes that he would do well to turn his scientific skills to the construction of weapons of mass destruction.  Archimedes refuses and the story ends thusly: \\"It was later reported that the learned Archimedes had met his death through an accident.\\" This last sentence tracked the official language used in reports issued by totalitarian regimes after it had killed one of its so-called enemies.   The Tales include a series of stories involving the life and death of Jesus, each told from a slightly different perspective.  The miracle of the loaves and fishes is told from the point of view of a baker whose primary concern is the impact the miracle will have on the price of his bread.  After the crucifixion, two Hebrew locals debate the error of Jesus' methods although not his message.  In another, Pilate engages in a dialogue with Joseph of Arimathea over the political implications of the crucifixion.  Their dialogue on \\"what is truth\\" still resonates long after I finished reading it.  Èapek also invokes fictional characters, Romeo & Juliet, and Hamlet in two humorous sagas.  Capek's `would-be' tales are written in a similar style but are written in a contemporary setting.  The most compelling of these are the last two, Anonymous Letter and Ten Centavos. In the first, a writer who has produced articles supporting the consumption of cheese is the subject of a hate mail campaign.  Ten Centavos involves the horror of an honorable man being publicly besmirched by an avenging state.  These stories must surely have had some resonance for Èapek as, as his life neared its end in 1938, he became subject to vicious attacks from some who held him partly responsible for the fate that was about to befall Czechoslovakia.  These are all beautiful stories told in simple narrative form.  It has been said of Capek that his deep belief in democracy made him want to present his ideas to be accessible to anyone who could read.  I do not know this to be the case but the spirit of Capek's stories shine through readily. These stories would be appreciated by anyone interested in short storieswhether or not they have a specific interest in Czech literature. This collection is well worth reading.	2004-08-23
US	52068296	R1RPA9ER7R18NB	1400042305	167406250	Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsar	Books	5	212	228	N	N	Extraordinary Examination of the Banality of Evil	Hannah Arendt, in her work Eichmann in Jerusalem, coined the phrase `banality of evil' to describe the rather bland existence of those who, like Eichman, were capable of committing unpardonable acts of unspeakable bestiality.  Simon Sebag Montefiore's elegantly written Stalin: Court of the Red Tsar (Red Tsar) mines this same vein in his examination of the life of Stalin and his inner circle. Red Tsar provides the reader with an inside, almost voyeuristic, view of the life of Stalin and his circle from his accession to power after the death of Lenin until his own death in 1953.  Montefiore does a masterful job of setting out the personal lives and inner workings of Stalin and his court against the backdrop of the extraordinary historic events that wracked the USSR during those times.  During Stalin's rein the Ukraine was wracked by forced starvation in the Ukraine and  rural masses were brutally killed and/or exiled  in the anti-kulak campaign.  Through show trials and purges and through a war on the eastern front that will probably never be matched for horror and brutality, Stalin and his courtiers lived lives of bourgeois expectations and affectation that would be recognizable if they were played out in Moscow, Idaho and not the USSR.<br /><br />Red Tsar has been meticulously researched.  Montefiore has done a marvelous job of examining newly opened Russian archives.  He interviewed a large number of surviving family members of the inner circle and was provided access to diaries, memoirs, and personal correspondence that has not been seen by historians prior to this work.  The end notes can be a bit confusing but it's clear that Montefiore's factual observations and his evaluations of those observations are grounded deeply in thorough research.<br /><br />Red Tsar begins with the death, apparently by suicide, of Stalin's second wife, Nadya.  Despite rumors that Stalin killed his wife Montefiore makes clear the emotional devastation visited upon Stalin as the resultof her death and gives little credence to the rumor.  The death of Nadya takes pride of place in Red Tsar because it is Montefiore's opinion that the emotional blow was the turning point at which Stalin began the transformation that would take him from strong ruler to brutal tyrant.<br /><br />From this point Montefiore takes us back and examines the process by which Stalin acquired absolute power.  Montefiore makes it clear that, contrary to popular belief, it took Stalin years to acquire the power that has since become enshrined in myth.  He did not just intimidate people, he cajoled, he charmed, and he compromised.  Even as late as the mid-1930's there were more than a few instances where Stalin did not quite get his way.  Unfortunately, Stalin had a prodigious memory for slights and obstacles along his path to power.  Stalin was, if nothing else, capable of long term thinking and he did not need instant gratification when it came to evening the score.<br /><br />Montefiore does an incredible job of humanizing Stalin without once belittling the horrors that were committed in his name.  Montefiore does not excuse Stalin by dispelling the myth that his life involved nothing more than engaging in evil acts.  Rather, his fleshing out the person that was Stalin, highly literate, smart, often engaging and charming, devoted to his daughter points out the duality from which banality can give birth to evil.  Further, this work is not simply an overview of Stalin's personal life.  It is an overview of Stalin's court, Beria, Malenkov, Molotov, Krushchev, Yezhov (NKVD boss before Beria), and Zhdanov and their families.  They all lived in the same apartment complexes in or near the Kremlin. They were friends as well as rivals and their wives and children mingled freely with each other and even with Stalin.<br /><br />Stalin's interest in literature and the arts is also examined closely.  Stalin had a strong interest in the arts and considered himself the ultimate arbiter.  He was instrumental in having Gorky return to the USSR where he was treated as a returning hero.  He peered over, edited, praised, or criticized the works of Babel, Akhmatova, Eisenstein, and Shostakovich. He was, perhaps, a dilettante, but a dilettante with the power of life and death.<br /><br />Last, two portions of the book are particularly compelling. The first takes place in the immediate aftermath of the German invasion of the USSR in June, 1941. Totally despondent over the overwhelming early losses suffered by a military criminally weakened by purges and aware that Hitler had completely outfoxed him. He took to his rooms and would not come out.  Finally,  when his court finally saw fit to intrude on Stalin's isolation Stalin quivered and asked if they had come to arrest or execute him.  Equally compelling is the story of Stalin's long medical decline and the horrible events surrounding his lingering death.<br /><br />One caveat for readers new to Soviet history.  Montefiore's treatment focuses on the inner workings of Stalin and his court.  He describes the historic events that take place outside the court in a manner that assumes a certain baseline familiarity with those events.  As good as this book  is, the reader new to Soviet history might be well served to start off with a general history before delving into Red Tsar.  Having said that, Court of the Red Tsar is a wonderful treatment of  the inner works of life under Stalin.  It should be read and savored.	2004-08-23
US	52068296	R260B8VL0C88OK	0930523059	170685095	My Merry Mornings: Stories From Prague	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Klima's Witty, Moving Prague Tales	This collection of seven short stories, one named for each morning of the week, is a nice introduction to the writing of Ivan Klima. Klima loves to write and in these stories Klima's love for the word shines through.  He is a teller of tales and Klima is in his element in the short story medium. The writing style evident in these stories, unlike some of his novels, is simple and accessible to any reader.  The simplicity of style is not surprising when one considers that Klima praised Czech playwright and author Karel Capek for exhibiting these same traits in his biography of Capek.   <br /> <br />The stories are light but they do reveal some of Klima's world view. In his Tuesday Morning story Klima's narrtaor(and in some of his stories the protagonist is referred to simply as Klima), a Czech writer, is reunited with an old paramour 20 years after she fled Czechoslovakia for the West. They had no emotional relationship but spent an idyllic spring and summer meeting for a tryst every lunch time in a vacant lot in Prague. They meet for lunch upon her return and she asks him why he never left Czechoslovakia. His response is simple: \\"Because I'd like to go on being a writer, and to be a writer means also to stick up for people whose fate is not a matter of indifference to me. . . All this I can do here, where I grew up.\\"   <br /> <br />Pungent, yet understated, sentences work themselves into virtually every story.  The Sunday Morning story, which involves torrential flooding in a outlying neighborhhod, begins simply: \\"This was a year rich in rainfall and police raids.\\"  Klima does not hammer the reader over the head with ideology or his world view.  Rather, he tells simple stories about the daily lives of the people around him.  The social and political atmosphere of the time is certainly present but they are set out as a fact of life that forms the backdrop of the story. The barter system for procuring supplies or the bribes required to pay off vendors is simply there,it is not the central focus of the tale.  When the narrator and some colleagues band together to build a garage for their cars on a vacant lot two of the builders go off to steal some building material. The narrator is surprised but moved when his companion explains why he simply cannot steal the needed supplies <br /> <br />Each story tells a small tale and it would reveal a bit too much to describe each individual story.  However, they are well written, amusing, and thoughtful. While this is far from Klima's most profound work they do paint a picture of life in Prague as it was lived by Klima and those around them.  It is also clear from Merry Mornings that Klima loves Prague.  It is his city and he is as attached to it as native Parisian might be to Paris. All in all Merry Mornings serves as an enjoyable introduction to both Klima and Prague.  <br />	2004-08-22
US	52068296	R2H8E61H12KC0Y	0964561123	785895107	The Spirit of Prague and Other Essays	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	The Spirit of Prague, The Soul of Klima	Ivan Klima has written novels, short stories, and essays.  I have read much of Klima and discovered them in that order. I wish I had discovered his essays, particularly those found in the Spirit of Prague, first.  This is not because Klima's novels and short stories are not consistently excellent.  They are.  However, these essays are so well written and so laden with Klima's own views on his life and thought processes that reading them can only enrich the enjoyment one gets from his fiction.  To the extent that a writer's life must inform his writing, our window into that writer's life informs our understanding of his work.   The Spirit of Prague consists of a series of essays or speeches written by Klima over the years.  Many of these essays were written in samizdat form during the years in which Klima's work was not published by the Czech communist regimes.  It also includes the transcript of an interview between Klima and the author Phillip Roth that was originally published in the New York Review of Books in 1990.    The first essay, A Rather Unconventional Childhood details Klima's childhood years in a Nazi concentration camp.  As one might expect such a childhood left an indelible mark on Klima's  world view.  One lesson learned was a simple one, \\"that few things are harder to restore than lost honour\\". In describing his life under the Nazis and then the Czech communist regime Klima avers that and society founded on dishonesty \\"while depriving another group, no matter how small, of its honour and even its right to life, condemns itself to moral degeneration and, ultimately, to complete collapse.\\"  This world view colors Klima's fiction and is evident in his novels, such as Waiting for the Dark, Waiting for the Light and in his short stories (My Golden Trades and My Merry Mornings). It also colored his response to living under the old regime and the honourable choices he made to return to Prague from London after the tanks rolled in 1968 and on his refusal tomake compromises with the regime that would have allowed him to publish his work.  In his essay, Literature and Memory, Klima addresses the oft-asked question, why does someone write? Drawing on Kundera's Book of Laughter and Forgetting, Klima asserts that if \\"we lose our memory, we lose ourselves.\\"   For Klima, a truly literary work is, in essence, a protest against the forgetting that looms over him.  The Phillip Roth interview of Klima was marred to a degree by Roth's perceived need to establish his own bona fides as a member of the intelligentsia at the expense of drawing more out of Klima.  Nevertheless, it had a fascinatingly exchange in which Klima provides a glimpse into the forces that propelled the writer and dissident V. Havel into the Presidency of the Czech Republic.  The Powerful and the Powerless, written in 1980, is an extraordinary piece that pretty much summarizes what Klima's life bears stark witness to; the struggle between the powerful and the powerless.  It is at once moving and pessimistic as Klima asserts that \\"humanity will not be redeemed by power wielded by the formerly powerless, for their innocence will be lost the day they become powerful.\\"  The goal of the powerful is to use their strength to put any potential rebels back in that special place where \\"emptiness [and]fear reigns.\\"  The Spirit of Prague concludes with a brilliant, short essay on the life and work of Franz Kafka: The Swords are Approaching.  Anyone interested in Kafka and his life and work would be well advised to pick up this collection of essays.   The above summary does not really do justice to the quality and spirit of Klima's writing.  Similarly, it does not do justice to the portrait gives us of his life and the life of his country.  The Spirit of Prague is a fascinating piece of work.	2004-08-17
US	52068296	R3C0MEKWBUGZQ4	080213923X	854192655	No Saints or Angels	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Human Cost of Freedom	Ivan Klima's Waiting for the Dark, Waiting for the Light was set in Prague, in 1989 on the eve of the Velvet Revolution. Rippling through that work was an undercurrent of hope for the future. The promise of freedom was rife and it came coupled with the expectation that life in a free society would be infinitely better than life under an oppressive regime. Fast forward to Prague in 1998.  The Czech Republic has been `free' for almost 10 years.  Freedom has no doubt brought great benefits but for the protagonist's of No Saints or Angels freedom may be just another word for nothing left to lose. In Klima's words freedom is the \\"gateway to an unknown space where even adults get lost in.\\" No Saints or Angels is about three people who seem to have gotten lost. <br /> <br />No Saints or Angels centers on three main characters.  Krystina is a divorced, middle-aged dentist. Krystina was born in 1953 on the day that Stalin, her devoted Communist father's greatest hero, died.  Her father was a strict disciplinarian, callous to his wife and daughter, and a faithful party apparatchik. Krystina's daughter, Jana, is a 16 year old schoolgirl.  Jan is a 30 year old and former student of Krystina's ex-husband.  Jan is a government employee tasked with investigation criminal acts of the old regime.   Various chapters are narrated in the voice of each of these three protagonists. <br /> <br />As the story opens Krystina is alone, lonely, and has no real focus except her work and the care and feeding of her daughter Jana. Her ex-husband Karel is terminally ill with cancer.  She is also more than a bit disconcerted by a series of threatening letters she has been receiving lately. Jana is sixteen and unbeknownst to her mother, she is becoming increasingly involved in the type of teenage behavior often associated with `democratic' societies: sex, drugs, and rock and roll. Jan, whose father was persecuted during the old regime, is nervous about political pressures.   <br /> <br />Krystina and Jan meet and begin an affair.  Jana's drug use becomes apparent even to the remarkably nave Krystina.  Krystina is tasked with going through her late father's possessions and his correspondence reveals an extraordinary family secret. As the story progresses to its rather calm conclusion each character, in his or her own voice reveal their fears and concerns with their life.  Although each is free since 1989 in a socio-political sense they remain a prisoner of their own past, a past that cannot be changed but can merely be contemplated, again and again. Each is burdened with the past and the daily impact that the past has on their present existence.  Each character carries within themselves grave uncertainty about their own future and their role in life. On the day Krystina was born her father cried, not because of the joy of his daughter's birth but because of his anguish over the death of Stalin.  Klima has him cry out \\"What are we going to do now?\\" \\"How are we going to live?\\"  These are the same questions that Krystina, Jana, and Jan ask themselves in their own way and each a representative of a different generation asks. <br /> <br />It should be pointed out that Klima paints his character portraits with some sympathy.  It is clear that he would not trade the problems brought about by freedom for the security of the old regime.  In an interview with Radio Prague he took pains to note that the Czech people haves not lost anything from the transition. \\"Maybe some people, mostly less capable people, have lost their feeling of security: it means entirely apolitical people, who didn't like to work too much, who were not very gifted, they were secure. The prices were stable, and so on and so on. Maybe for some people that's something of a loss. . . . But what we've gained is many things . . . we have gained freedom.\\"  <br /> <br />No Saints or Angels is not a perfect work.  Sometimes the resolutions of his characters' problems seem a little too simple.  Further, Klima's short stories (My Merry Morning for example) and non-fiction pieces (Spirit of Prague) seems to have a more powerful impact on this reader.    Nevertheless, Klima is a master at telling a story and No Saints or Angels is no exception. This is a book worth reading either on its own or in conjunction with Klima's other work. I do think that No Saints or Angels would be more appreciated by the reader after he or she has read Waiting for the Dark, Waiting for the Light.  <br />	2004-08-12
US	52068296	RHNH1UG8Y76OT	0375412352	594411795	Monumental Propaganda	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Voinovich's Latest  Literary Exorcism	Most Soviet dissident authors wrote with a heavy, albeit masterful, hand. Authors such as Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, Boris Pasternak, Vasily Grossman and Anatoly Rybakov painted on a broad canvass, penning literary frontal assaults on the Soviet regime. Vladimir Voinovich has always taken a different approach. Where the others fought oppression with outrage, Voinovich fought oppression with satire and wit. His narrower, almost miniature approach was directed at the small absurdities of an apparatchik-governed regime that lacked many things, most notably a sense of humor. From the Extraordinary Adventures of Ivan Chonkin, the Fur Hat, to the Ivankiad, Voinovich took dead aim at the Soviet bureaucracy. His writing was funny, acerbic, and acclaimed in the West. He also took steps to secure the publication of other writer's works in the West. Most notably, Voinovich was responsible, in part, for getting a microfilmed copy of Vasily Grossman's masterpiece, Life and Fate delivered to a publisher in Switzerland. We may never have seen Grossman's brilliant work if not for Voinovich. He also publicly defended Solzhenitsyn in the 1960s and 1970s although that relationship has now turned sour.<br /><br /> As a result, Voinovich became as much a threat to the Soviet regime as any of the other, more somber authors. By 1980, Voinovich was stripped of his Soviet citizenship and exiled to West Germany. Responding to a decree issued by Brezhnev asserting that Voinovich had brought the Soviet regime into disrepute, Voinovich issued a counter-decree that stated: \\"Mr. Brezhnev, you have highly over estimated my activities. I did not undermine the prestige of the Soviet Government. Thanks to the efforts of the Soviet leadership and your own efforts, the Soviet government has no prestige. Therefore, to do justice, you should deprive yourself of citizenship.\\" Voinovich's wit, and his struggles with the Soviet government informs his Monumental Propaganda.<br /><br /> Monumental Propaganda isset in the city of Dolgov. Its two primary characters are Aglaya Stepanova Revkina (who was a minor character in Chonkin) and a large, iron statue of Stalin. The story opens in 1956 when word gets back to Dolgov of Khrushchev's denunciation of Stalin at the 1956 party conference. Aglaya is horrified. She is a war hero, a life time communist, and more than anything else devoted to Comrade Stalin. The story takes us from 1956 to the present. As the world and Dolgov changes, Aglaya remains unshaken in her devotion to Stalin. Shortly after the denunciation, the town's party leaders tear down Stalin's statue and plan to haul it to a factory for smelting. Aglaya will have none of that. She manages to have the statue installed in her apartment where it remains for the rest of her life. Aglaya loses her position and her party membership because of her unflinching devotion to Stalin. The statue carries with it an almost supernatural presence, one that the town and the world, unlike Aglaya would like very much to exorcise. The book serves as a de facto exorcism of Stalin and the Soviet regime. It doesn't treat the new Russia much better.<br /><br /> Voinovich takes us and a delightful cast of characters, including Voinovich himself, through the Khrushchev regime, then Brezhnev, Chernenko and Andropov and ultimately through contemporary Russia. Russian life is neatly put into categories by one of Voinovich's characters: \\"Cellar terrorism(under Lenin, when they shot people in the cellars of the Extraordinary Commission, or Cheka), the Great Terror (under Stalin), Terror Within the Limits of Leninist Norms (under Khrushchev), Selective Terror (under Brezhnev), Traditional Terror (under Andropov, Chernenko, and Gorbachev), and [now] Terror Unlimited.<br /><br /> In describing Alexei Makaraov, the book's moral compass Voinovich notes that his \\"postgraduate dissertation on problems of linguistics . . . was so brilliant that at first they wanted to award him a doctorate for it, butthen they gave him five years in exile instead.\\" The book is filled with casually tossed off sentences like this that left me laughing to myself. Some references may not be understood by the casual reader. For example, Voinovich has a short set piece that pretty much summarizes the evolution of Voinovich's relationship with Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn from admiration to mutual belligerence. It might not make much sense unless one understood the actual dispute between the two great dissidents. Having said that, these are relatively few and far between and should not detract from anyone's enjoyment of the book. The book has an explosive climax, in every sense of the word. It is in a very real sense a literary exorcism of Stalin.<br /><br /> Although the book's story line suffers from some weakness and the story tends to wander a bit, the brilliance of Voinovich's writing and his ability to make me laugh made the wandering all the more enjoyable. This is an excellent book that will be enjoyed by anyone with an interest in good writing.	2004-08-04
US	52068296	R2GDA649986PEP	0002712075	687199193	Life and Fate	Books	5	148	155	N	N	Brilliant Thoughtful Work	Vasily Grossman submitted his manuscript for Life and Fate in 1960 at the height of Khrushchev's post-Stalinist cultural thaw. Subsequent to a review of the manuscript Grossman was advised that the book was being arrested. The book could not be published for at least 200 years. All copies of the manuscript were rounded up and sent to party headquarters for safekeeping. The manuscript was arrested because it dared to imply that Hitlerism and Stalinism bore more similarities than differences. Grossman made this point obliquely by putting these words into the mouth of a despicable SS death camp commandant. Nevertheless this was too much for both Khrushchev and the apparatchiks at the National Union of Writers and the book was banned. Life and Fate was eventually published because a manuscript remained at large. The author Vladimir Voinovich helped smuggle a copy to Switzerland where it was published in 1980, 15 years after Grossman's death in 1965. The book was published in the USSR in 1989 to sensational results. Nevertheless, Grossman remains relatively obscure outside Russia and that is a great pity.     Grossman was born in 1905. Although Jewish by birth, Grossman was never particularly religious and his family supported the 1917 revolution. After receiving a degree in chemistry Grossman found work in the Donbass coal mines. Encouraged by Maxim Gorky, Grossman began writing short stories and plays. Grossman adopted Stalin's maxim that writers were engineers of human souls and his work was firmly rooted in the rather tedious school of socialist realism. Grossman's play \\"If You Believe the Pythagoreans\\" attacked the philosophical rants of intellectuals and argued that they were garbage not \\"worth a good worker's boot.\\" For all intents and purposes, Grossman was a true believer. How and why did this change? Life and Fate begins to answer that question.    Grossman volunteered for the front after the German invasion in 1941 and worked as a reporter for Red Star, an army newspaper known for its forthright reports from the front lines. Grossman received national fame due to his reporting from the front lines. Grossman was the first reporter to write first hand accounts of German concentration camps and his experience there had a devastating impact on his world view. Grossman learned after the war that his mother, who he failed to move from Berdichev to Moscow after the invasion perished in Hitler's genocide. It was the death of his mother and the post war anti-Semitic campaigns of Stalin that may have led Grossman to challenge his own acceptance of Soviet orthodoxy and set him to work on Life and Fate and his other major work, Forever Flowing.   Life and Fate is a remarkable novel despite its occasional unremarkable prose that contains a trace of Grossman's earlier socialist realism style. The book's emotional core involves humanity's struggle for freedom in an unfree world. Josef Skvorecky put the central question of Life and Fate thusly: \\"Does man lose his innate yearning for freedom? The fate of both man and the totalitarian State depends on the answer to this question. If human nature does change, then the eternal and world wide triumph of the dictatorial state is assured; if his yearning for freedom remains constant, then the totalitarian state is doomed.\\"     The scope of the story and the cast of characters are vast and in the tradition of both Tolstoy and Pasternak. This edition contains a list of characters and their geographic location during the story. The central characters include Viktor Shtrum, a scientist, and his extended family. Other central figures include Captain Grekov, the leader of a group of soldiers doing battle with the Nazi's in a bombed out apartment building in Stalingrad. Grekov is an iconoclast doing battle not only with the Nazis but the political commissars that spent more time concerned with political orthodoxy than fighting. Key scenes in the book also take place in a German concentration camp anda Russian labor camp.     Life and Fate is a wonderful book. Grossman's assertion towards the end of his work that we can be slaves by fate but not slaves by nature is an important concept to keep a hold of today.    L. Fleisig	2004-07-18
US	52068296	RJ881U47G60I7	1565847040	346166362	Dr. Seuss Goes to War: The World War II Editorial Cartoons of Theodor Seuss Geisel	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Oh the Drawings He Drew	Dr. Seuss Goes to War is a fascinating look at the political cartoons of Theodor Geisel, (Dr.  Seuss).  Seuss was hired to draw political cartoons for the New York newspaper PM in 1941 and remained through 1943.  Seuss had already published his first children's book, To Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street in 1937 but his other children's works were not created until after WWII.    Two hundred of those roughly four hundred cartoons have found their way into Dr. Seuss Goes to War.  Because these cartoons were drawn on a daily basis and reflected contemporary events they provide the reader with a fascinating window through which one can view life in America and the World during the war years.  The book begins with a brief introduction by Art Spiegelman, the Pulitzer Prize winning author/illustrator of Maus.  Spiegelman notes the eerie resemblance between the figures and animals drawn by Seuss and his later creations such as the Cat in the Hat, Myrtle the Turtle, and Horton.    The cartoons themselves are divided into sections by topic, (the Home Front, Hitler & Nazi Germany, the Rest of the Word, etc.).  Each section contains a very well written and thoughtful preface by historian Richard Minear.  These explanatory sections are quite helpful in putting the cartoons into the context of the day and providing critical information about some of the then well known figures of the day (Father Coughlin, Pierre Laval and others) that may be unfamiliar to contemporary readers.  Minear's commentary is particularly useful because it contains links between the information he provides by reference to the specific page number of a cartoon.  The reader's enjoyment and understanding of the cartoon is enhancement by this treatment.  As to the cartoons themselves, it is impossible to do justice to their power, wit, and whimsy.  Seuss, and his newspaper PM, were strongly opposed to the isolationist movement in the U.S. in the months before America's entry into the war.  As such Seusspulled no punches when it came to directing his wrath at Charles Lindbergh and other isolationists.  He mocked Hitler, Mussolini, Tojo, and Stalin (until the German attack on the USSR) and the Vichy French government.  Seuss' treatment of the Vichy regime, most notably Pierre Laval, was positively brutal.  Minear also includes a number of Seuss' cartoons attacking anti-Semitism and other racist, segregationist policies on the home front.  In this area Seuss was well ahead of his time.  Minear counterbalances this aspect of Seuss' world view by including Seuss cartoons lampooning Tojo, the Japanese military, and the Japanese people.  Minear is quick to point out his disappointment at what he calls Seuss's ugly stereotyping of Japanese-Americans that he thought went beyond the bounds of acceptable commentary, even in the 1940s.  Minear's disappointment is heightened by Seuss' otherwise enlightened approach to the treatment of Jewish and African Americans in the 1930s and 1940s.  On a purely emotional level, anyone who has ever read Dr. Seuss will enjoy looking at his political cartoons.  The cartoons are both funny and thought provoking.  The essence of Seuss's style of caricatures is fully in place and it is quite easy to see the physical similarity between the animals and people drawn by Seuss here and in his later children's works.  This is a book that can be enjoyed by anyone who has ever read Dr. Seuss as a child.  It will also be enjoyed by anyone with an interest in political cartoons or would like to explore how America viewed the world (through Seuss' eyes) between 1941 and 1943.	2004-07-14
US	52068296	R2YS5REAIVMO64	1400032008	860702312	The White Russian: A Novel	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Mystery Wrapped in the Enigma of Pre-Revolutionary Russia	It is New Year's morning in 1917 in frigid St. Petersburg, the capital of old Russia. The February revolution that will sweep Tsar Nicholas away is only weeks away.  The Bolshevik revolution of  November, 1917 (October in the old Russian calendar) will take place within the year.  Russia, particularly St. Petersburg, is consumed by strikes, speculation, food shortages, and a growing disdain for the Tsar.  The city is awash in rumors of the debauched relationship between the recently assassinated Rasputin and the Tsarina Alexandra.  The wave of nationalistic fervor that marked Russia's entry into WWI in August 1914 has been replaced by despair, dismay, and finally indifference as a haplessly incompetent officer corps leads the Russian army into defeat upon defeat at the hands of the Kaiser's army.<br />As the sun rises on New Year's day two bodies are found on the frozen river Neva within sight of the Imperial Palace.  One man and a young woman have been brutally murdered.  Sandro Ruzsky, St. Petersburg's chief police investigator is called to the scene. Sandro is the scion of a Russian noble, Nicolas Ruzsky, the Tsar's Deputy Finance Minister.  Sandro's decision to join the police rather than take up the military career embarked upon by his father and his ancestors has caused irreparable harm to the father/son relationship.  The rift is further heightened by the blame Nicolas has always placed on Sandro for the death by drowning of Sandro's youngest brother. The boy's death years ago continues to haunt both father and son.<br />It is Sandro's first day back on the job after a three-year exile/posting to Siberia courtesy of the Okhrana, the Tsar's secret police (the KGB of its day).  Sandro's exile resulted in the break up of his marriage to his wife Irina who left Siberia to take up on affair with an aging, corpulent Grand Duke.  Sandro is more than a bit tired, drunk, and hung-over as he steps onto the ice.  Sandro is accompanied by his assistant Pavel.  Sandro's exile was caused in no small part by Pavel's actions but Sandro took all the blame onto himself on the theory that Pavel, a person of lesser birth, would have suffered a fate worse than Sandro's.  This action of course leaves Pavel devoted to Sandro.<br />These two murders are followed in rapid succession by other, equally brutal murders.  It is Sandro's job to solve the murders which may or may not involve members of the Royal family.  Sandro's investigation is impeded at every step of the way by the Okhrana.  Nothing is quite what it seems and no one is quite who they seem. Allegiance is a duty owed only to oneself, or so it seems. Sandro's investigation takes him across Russia to his family's summer home and then on to the Crimea.  The story line is inexorably linked to the dramatic events unfolding across Russa. As events proceed Sandro rediscovers the love of his life and this tortured relationship  forms an emotional cornerstone of the book along with the examination of Sandro's relationship with his father.  <br />It would be unfair to reveal any more of the story line.  One of White Russian's strength is the development of the plot and its characters.  A little bit is revealed on each page.  It is fair to say that this book is more than a simply murder mystery.  Bradby's characters, particularly those of Sandro and his father evoke a time and place where honor in the face of adversity counted more than either convenience or love much to the detriment of both men. This notion of honor and duty is at once the cause and resolution of the rift between father and son.  <br />In a fast paced manner Bradby conveys with dexterity the feel of a city lost in a fog of war and insurrection.  Everyone sees the revolution coming but like an out-of-control train no one seems willing or able to do anything about it.  <br />Bradby takes us into the minds of the entrenched nobility, striking workers, and revolutionary students.  One can feel the revolution approaching as the book reaches its climactic moments.  It is the inevitability of the coming revolutions that serves as the conceptual underpinning of both the murders and the resolution of the story.<br />This was an enjoyable book.	2004-07-05
US	52068296	RDYHEAA35Y6FW	156792025X	282747404	Study Is Hard Work: The Most Accessible and Lucid Text Available on Acquiring and Keeping Study Skills Through a Lifetime	Books	5	35	38	N	Y	"Before the Gates of Excellence the High Gods Have Placed	Sweat ... .\\"<br /><br />This passage from the Greek Poet Hesiod (which concludes: Long is the road thereto and rough and steep at first; but when the heights are reached, then there is ease, though grievously hard in the winning) is the core message of this book.  It is also the passage that was posted on William H. Armstrong's classroom wall for over 30 years.  This book and the work ethic instilled by Mr. Armstrong in his classroom did change my life to a very good degree.  It took longer for the lessons imparted here to sink in on me than on others but they were there when I needed them once I got to college.<br /><br />Study is Hard Work, as its title suggests, pulls no punches.  It is direct and to the point.  Excellence is not easy.  It takes work and organization. Mix well and repeat!  Mr. Armstrong sets out a number of excellent suggestions which, when read, cause you to smack your head and say - \\"how obvious\\".  Obvious yes, but overlooked or forgotten until seen in print in simple declarative sentences.  The fact that study is hard work is an important lesson for children, particularly bright children, to learn as they move from elementary to middle school and then on to high school and college.  Ones ability to thrive on sheer native intelligence alone gets more difficult each step of the way.  This book serves as preparation for the increased level of sheer work that is involved in maintaining that level of excellence. It is similar to a dentist advising you \\"this may hurt a bit\\".  Foreknowledge is a valuable tool.<br /><br />As has been noted, Mr. Armstrong's approach may seem a bit blunt in today's environment.  That fact alone seems a compelling reason to read the book. The fact that the suggestions noted in the book may seem a bit dated provides those children who can absorb these lessons with a valuable competitive edge in our increasingly competitive school and work environment.<br /><br />I have recently purchased this book along with a teacher's lesson plan book,another organizational tool used by Mr. Armstrong, for my daughter.  It is a book worth buying. It is a book worth going over with your children even if, as with the dentist, it hurts a bit.zational tool used by Mr. Armstrong, for my daughter.  It is a book worth buying. It is a book worth going over with your children even if, as with the dentist, it hurts a bit.	2004-07-05
US	52068296	R20P9NINV7G8M2	0679727868	706623155	I Served the King of England	Books	5	30	30	N	N	The Rise, Fall, and Redemption of a Little Man	Bohumil Hrabal's I Served the King of England is a beautiful, sparse, simply told story about a little man named Ditie. Ditie is a little man in the sense that he is small in stature. He is also little in the sense that he is merely a waiter, a little man who wanders blithely through the critical historical events that buffeted Czechoslovakia between 1935 and 1950 or so.      As the novel opens Ditie is a busboy at the Golden Prague Hotel. On his first day the hotel manager pulls him by the left ear to advise him to \\"remember, you don't see anything and you don't hear anything.\\"  The manager then pulls him by the right ear and tells him that he has \\"to see everything and hear everything.\\"  Ditie manages to learn how to accomplish this seemingly irreconcilable task.    Ditie is an ambitious man whose ambitions focus on acquiring two things: money and 'sensuous' experiences.  His life is otherwise void of conscious thought or awareness.  In many respects Hrabal portrays him vividly as something less than a complete human being. He earns money on the side selling frankfurters at the local train station.  He gains extra tips from passengers ordering frankfurters from the train by fumbling for change long enough for the train to pull out.  He decides to become a millionaire after walking into a room to see a portly Czech salesman rolling around on a floor covered with money.  Ditie's hunger for sensual experiences is fueled after his first visit to the local brothel, the aptly named Paradise.  After his first visit Ditie vows to make so much money that he can continue to explore the delights found there.  Hrabal's description of Ditie's introduction to the lure of money and flesh is both comic and delightful.    Ditie leaves the Golden Prague Hotel and makes his way to the Hotel Tichota and then the Hotel Paris where he is promoted to waiter.  It is there that he is taken under the wing of the headwaiter Mr. Skrivanek, who knows everything there is to know about being atop waiter.  Whenever Ditie asks Skrivanek how he knows a particular fact Skrivanek replies - \\"because I served the King of England\\" at a banquet many years ago.  Ditie later reaches one of his life's highpoints when he gets to serve the Emperor of Ethiopia, Haile Selassie. He then gets to answer \\"I served the Emperor of Ethiopia\\" whenever a younger waiter asks him for advice. The description of the banquet is another wonderful example of Hrabal's story telling ability.      It is while at the Hotel Paris that Ditie meets and falls in love with a young Sudeten German named Lise.  As noted, Ditie is unaware or unfazed by the political events that are in the front of everyone else's mind.  He is shocked that his fellow waiters ostracize him because of his relationship with Lise merely because of the troubles in the Sudetenland and the pending German invasion of Czechoslovakia.  Ditie merely wants to become a millionaire and make love to Lise.  Ditie is fired shortly before the German invasion.    The story takes us through Ditie's life during the war and up through the Communist accession to power in Czechoslovakia.  At every step of the way these events swirl around Ditie without seeming to touch him in any real way.  He spends a six month term in jail after the war for his collaboration with the Germans but that does not interfere with his plans to open up a spectacular hotel and become a millionaire.  Ditie accomplishes this goal just around the time of the Communist accession to power in Czechoslovakia.  Again, this does not seem to have any real impact on Ditie at all.  In fact, when it is announced that the new regime will impose a horrendous tax on all millionaires Ditie eagerly awaits the validation that paying this tax will accord him.  Instead he is horrified when an old colleague, a member of the Czech resistance who later becomes a party leader, whose life Ditie inadvertently saved from the Gestapo manages to obtain a tax exemption for Ditie.  Horrified, Ditie marches to the local police with his bankbook to prove he is a millionaire.  Of course all his assets are taken and he is sent to a work camp in the mountains.    It is only after Ditie has lost everything that he achieves some sense of his own humanity.  It is a redemption that Ditie probably never knew he needed.  As the story ends, Ditie wants nothing more than to be buried on the very top of a particular hill so that part of his remains make their way into some streams in Bohemia and the other part make their way into the Danube.    Although it is certainly easy to set out the events in I Served the King of England it is hard to convey the beauty and the comedy of Hrabal's writing.   Hrabal's writing style is  something of an anecdotal, stream of consciousness storytelling.  It reminds me of the times I would sit in a bar, pub, or caf? in some far away place and come across someone who simply knew how to tell great stories.   They might be a tad drunk, they might have told those stories to anyone willing to buy them a pint or too.  But they are fun to listen to and sometimes they tell you a little bit about the storyteller and a little about yourself.  Hrabal's I Served the King of England is one of those stories.    It is a delightful book.	2004-07-04
US	52068296	R3PRPBMGUPKOZ0	0060185163	725298314	God's Secretaries: The Making of the King James Bible	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Beauty of Words Evoking the Beauty of The Word	God's Secretaries is a beautiful evocation of the making of the King James Bible, considered by many to be the most compelling version of the Bible ever published.  Nicolson makes a powerful argument in support of this assertion.  Nicolson's passion for the King James Bible permeates this work.  It must be no easy task to use prose to describe a book that is held in such high regard.  I think Nicolson has pulled this task off with grace and ease.  The first portion of the book puts the process of translation into the context of the early Jacobean era.  Nicolson traces the end of the Elizabethan era and the ascension of James I (James VI of Scotland) to the throne of England in 1603.  There were numerous issues of state and theology (the two are inexorably mixed) that James needed to navigate.    James I, was the head of the English church (referred to here as the Anglican church) that operated on a theological level that was betwixt and between Catholicism and the `purer' (for wont of a better adjective) Protestantism of Calvin and Luther (to name two) that had spread like wildfire across the continent and had made serious inroads into English religious life.  Those Protestants were referred to as nonconformists in England because their practice did not conform to the Anglican tradition.  Nicolson does an admirable job of setting out the doctrinal and political justifications for this tripartite divide.  At its most superficial level, Catholicism because of its focus on the religious dominance of Rome and the Pope served to lessen the authority of the crown because it split the allegiance of the faithful and belied the critical notion that the King's authority flowed directly from God without reference to or reliance on the Pope.   The differences between nonconformists and Anglicans were more doctrinal but those differences were as politically laden, if not more so, than those with the Catholic Church.  Specifically, the centerpiece of the Anglican Church was the Altar.  The idea of the `ceremony' of Christianity took pride of place. There was also a clear hierarchy in the form of the King, Archbishops, and Priests tasked with reading and interpreting God's words.  By contrast, the centerpiece of the nonconformist rite was the pulpit.  The idea of the word of God took pride of place.  Further, nonconformists believed that the individual had the ability to understand the word of God and that the individual could have a personal relationship with God without the guidance of Bishops, Archbishops, or the King.  The difference in focus was a direct and immediate threat to the King's authority.  If an individual could derive divine guidance without recourse to the church or King the very need for a King and that King's divine right to rule, would be (and was) called into question.   Nicolson devotes the rest of his book to the creation of the King James Bible by a committee of generally unknown churchmen and scholars. Split into groups and assigned different books of the Old and New Testaments the translators (as they were known) were provided with earlier versions (specifically the Geneva and Tyndale versions) and tasked with creating a new, `improved' version.  The translators included both Anglicans and nonconformists.  Nicolson provides compelling reasons why this committee was so constructed.  It seems clear that James I intended to co-opt a certain moderate segment of the nonconformist tradition and in so doing render them and their flocks less likely to challenge to the authority of royal rule.  If successful such a co-option would make his reign less vulnerable from that side of the religious divide.  Nicolson infers that the creation of a universally accepted version of the Bible would mitigate doctrinal differences making a ceremony out of the word itself.  Focusing more attention on the `word' might appease some nonconformists.  Creating a version rich and rife with meaning also had certain ceremonial aspects that mightappease the Anglican powers that feared undue focus on the word.  It was an admirable goal even if the bloody civil war that followed a mere 30 years or so from its publication proved the attempt futile.    The most important element of the book for me lies with Nicolson's unrelenting love for the words created by this `great commission'.  Nicolson does acknowledge that much of the core text of the King James Bible is freely adopted from the Tyndale version.  He does show, however, how the change of only one or two words can turn \\"those words into a tangible experience\\" that enhances the beauty and power of the previous text.  Nicolson is also not averse to castigating contemporary versions of the Bible that denude the language of meaning for the sake of making it a bit easier to read.  Nicolson cites T.S. Eliot's admonition of the New English Bible that it \\"astonishes in its combination of the vulgar, the trivial, and the pedantic.\\"    Nicolson does seem more kindly disposed to James I than may be warranted.  He notes James' profligate spending and sensual appetite only in passing.  However, my impression was that the beauty and power of the Bible prepared at his direction and published under his name covered a multitude of sins and that James' other actions were not particularly relevant to the creation of `his' Bible.	2004-07-04
US	52068296	R1PNZOMQZ4EA1K	0156904586	902708233	Too Loud a Solitude	Books	5	59	63	N	Y	Chronicle of a Life and a Death Foretold	\\"For thirty-five years now I've been in wastepaper, and it's my love story.\\"  So begins Bohumil Hrabal's Too Loud Solitude.  The narrator, Hantá, has worked as a trash compactor his entire adult life and his job centers on creating machine compressed bales of waste paper. The most depressing aspect of his job is the fact that a core part of the waste left for compacting consists of books, hundred and thousands of books no longer wanted or desired by the then current political regime.  Hrabal's novella explores in its own unique way the life and after-life of books and knowledge.<br /><br />At first glance, Hanta comes across as an unwashed, miserably drunk, under-educated worker. However, from the outset it becomes clear that the books condemned to destruction by Hanta have left an indelible imprint in his own soul.  Hanta notes  that his \\"education has been so unwitting I can't quite tell which of my thoughts come from me and which from my books.\\"  He notes that he doesn't really read, rather, he will \\"pop a beautiful sentence into my mouth and suck it like a fruit drop.\\"  As the story progresses Hanta's thoughts are sprinkled with thoughts and quotations from the Talmud, Kant, Erasmus and all the great thinkers of the ages.<br /><br />Hanta cannot destroy all the books submitted to him for destruction. Rather, he has spent thirty-five years sneaking books out in his briefcase, one or two at a time.  His modest house is overrun with books and Haòtá notes that too loud a sneeze could condemn him to death if the books towering over his bed collapse upon him.  Despite the despair caused by the nature of his work and his being lost in too loud a solitude, Hantá continues to live for his books.  At the end of his work day he makes his way home \\"yet smiling, because my briefcase is full of books and that very night I expect them to tell me things about myself I don't know.\\"<br /><br />Hanta's life though is beset with woe.  His boss looks down upon him on account ofhis slovenly and drunken appearance and his work has been made obsolete by a new compacting machine on the other side of town.  Hantá makes a trip to view the new compacting factory and upon his return to his own decrepit surroundings engages in a futile fury of compacting in a manner reminiscent of John Henry and his hammer. Hanta is also wracked by guilt at the destruction of thousands of books.  He hears the crunch of human skeletons whenever his hydraulic press crushes beautiful books with astonishing force.  At the end of the day, Haòtá attempts to relieve himself of his guilt by dint of the Talmudic saying \\"For we are like olives: only when we are crushed do we yield what is best in us.\\"  Hantá clearly wants to believe that he is simply releasing what is best in the books he must crush.<br />The tone for the book's conclusion is established by reference to this crushing of olives.  Hantá's internal monologue reveals his awareness that he has consumed the contents of thousands of books.  He is aware that he cannot write words that can express adequately all that he has learned.  He is wistful at the thought that being crushed may be the best or only  way to yield what is the best in him.  Consequently, the physical contents of Hantá's last bale of waste should come as no surprise as the narrative ends.<br /><br />Too Loud a Solitude does chronicle a life and a death  foretold.  Hrabal, despite obtaining a degree in law from Prague's Charles University was forced to work as a manual laborer in the 1950s.  This included a stint as a waste compactor.  In 1997, beset with ill-health, Hrabal fell or flew out of his fifth floor hospital room and plunged to his death.  Some have argued that he slipped while feeding some pigeons.  (Defenestration, whether self-inflicted or not, has played an important role in Czech and Bohemian history from 1419 through the death of Jan Masaryk in 1948).  Having read Too Loud a Solitude one can only think that perhaps Hrabal, atthe end of his life felt it was time to yield to the world all that was best in him once in a manner that would resonate for him and with his native readers.<br /><br />Too Loud a Solitude is a beautiful, thoughtful piece of work that should be appreciated by anyone that loves the written word.  By making us and Hantá wince at the destruction of the written word the beauty and importance of those words are heightened for all of us.	2004-06-24
US	52068296	R3A5CQBLZOQCKQ	1400060516	278968536	Murder on the Leviathan: A Novel	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Another Good Book from Boris Akunin!	Boris Akunin's Murder on the Leviathan is the second English language publication of a series of novels involving Russian sleuth Erast Fandorin.  Leviathan is different in tone and structure from Akunin's first Fandorin mystery, The Winter Queen, but makes for a worthy successor. <br />The reader should note that this is actually the third book in the Erast Fandorin series but only the second published in English. Murder on the Leviathan does contain a couple of references to Fandorin's adventures in Turkey, that formed the basis of the second book, but those references do not have any impact on the reader's ability to enjoy this book standing on its own.<br />It is no insult to advise the reader that Murder on the Leviathan is a highly structured, formulaic mystery that is written within the clear guidelines established for genre-mysteries in the Agatha Christie tradition.  The enjoyment to be gained from reading books of this sort is derived from the writer's ability to work within that structure in an entertaining and exciting way.  Akunin accomplishes this task with ease and, in the process, also manages to add a few new wrinkles to the genre.<br />The story centers on a gruesome mass murder carried out in connection with the commission of a brazen robbery of a priceless Indian shawl in Paris in 1878.  The investigation is led by a less than stellar Parisian detective, the aptly named Inspector Gauche. Like Christies' Murder on the Orient Express, the initial investigation leads Inspector Gauche to a restricted setting with a limited number of suspects. In this case the setting is the S.S. Leviathan, making its initial voyage from Southampton, England to Calcutta,India via the Suez Canal.  <br />Inspector Gauche boards the ship in Southampton after determining that the murderer will be on the vessel. Suspects are readily identified.  Those suspects are a diverse bunch.  They include an upper-class Englishman of dubious sanity, an apparently delicate young Swisswoman in the middle of her first pregnancy, a mysterious Japanese army officer whose knowledge of things military seems a bit sparse, and a professor who just happens to specialize in ancient Indian artifacts of the sort found missing in Paris.   <BR> <BR>Everyone has, or appears to have a motive.  As the story unfolds the reader is provided with any number of clues and red herrings as is common of this sort of mystery.  The story races to its inevitable and dramatic conclusion.  It would be unfair to reveal more.  <br />As noted earlier, the success of a book of this type centers on the ability of the author to work well within the established formula for these sorts of parlor mysteries.  Akunin handles the formula with aplomb and grace and even breathes some fresh life into this venerable category of mystery books.  <br />First, Leviathan does not consist of a straightforward narrative written in one voice.  Rather, each chapter is written in the voice of one of the characters in the book, whether Inspector Gauche, one of the suspects or our own Erast Fandorin (more on his role in a bit).  The story is advanced in each chapter but the change in voice adds a different perspective and insight.  It also leads the reader to wonder whether he was reading the words of a guilty or innocent party.  This structure added a layer of interest to the story and also served to paint the characters with a deeper, fuller brush.<br />Second, Erast Fandorin, although arguably the `hero' of these stories plays a somewhat minor yet very critical role in the development of the story and the ultimate solution of the crime(s).  Fandorin does not join the ship until it has made at least one port of call.  Fandorin does not take charge of the investigation.  The bumbling, pompous Inspector Gauche remains firmly (or so he thinks) in charge of the investigation.  Fandorin only interjects himself into the action when it becomes clear that Gauche is about to veer dramatically off course.  WhenFandorin does talk - people listen - and the reader pays attention.  For example, it is Fandorin, alone amongst the passengers who has some understanding of the manner and way of thinking of the mysterious Japanese passenger. In fact, Akunin in real life speaks Japanese fluently and at one point in his life worked as a Russo-Japanese translator.<br />Keeping Fandorin off center stage also allowed the other passenegrs room to develop as characters as the story progresses. It was not all about Fandorin and the greater development of the other passengers' characters made for a more compelling read.  <br />Fandorin's role also happens to be the books primary weakness in my opinion. I purchased Murder on the Leviathan in part because I was drawn to the character of Fandorin that Akunin had set out so masterfully in Winter Queen.  The conclusion of Winter Queen left me wanting to see Fandorin grow and survive.  I did not see that in Leviathan except for one section where Fandorin looks into the tortured soul of one of his fellow passengers with great empathy and understanding.  This minor disappointment was outweighed though by the story itself and by the way Akunin told the story.  I do look forward to seeing more of Fandorin in future volumes of the series.<br />I did like this book.  I think anyone who likes this type of mystery genre will like Leviathan.  First, Akunin shows respect for the structure. Second, Akunin's respect for the form did not prevent him from writing a highly entertaining and fresh piece of work. I only add that reading Winter Queen is not a prerequisite to enjoying or understanding Murder on the Leviathan.  It would, however, enhance the reading experience.	2004-06-23
US	52068296	R2M0R7PKTKS470	1559706376	782713096	The Music of a Life: A Novel	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Another  Profund Work from Makine	Andrei Makine's Music of a Life is a slim book, a mere 144 pages.  It a simple story, told in a straightfoward, spare fashion. Yet within the framework of this simple story lies a profund piece of work that has an impact on the reader that, like the most beautiful music, lingers long after the last note fades into the night.<br /><br />Makine, for those not familiar with his work, was born in the Soviet Union in 1958. He emigrated to France as a young man. He writes in French. (Music of a Life was nicely translated from the French by Geoffrey Strachan). At the risk of setting out what may sound like a hackneyed cliche, Makine's work for me combines the grace and elgance of the best French writers and the deep soul and conviction of the best Russian writers.<br /><br />Music of a Life is set out as the re-telling of a conversation had between two strangers on a train moving slowly west from Siberia sometime around 1958, the year many thousands finally won their release from the labor camps that dotted the Soviet Far East.  Two men sit together. One older man, wearing clothes that mark him as someone just released from the Gulag strikes up a comnversation with his fellow passenger.  The story is set out in the voice of the other passenger.  As the train moves on the older passenger and the narrator exchange slowly.  At some point the older passenger, Alexe Berg, slowly sets out his life story.<br /><br />In 1940, the young Alexe, a classically trained pianist of great talent and promise, was preparing for his debut recital.  On approaching his family flat after the dress rehearsal he sees a pre-arranged symbol indiccating that his parents, supposedly dangerous members of the intelligentsia, had been swept up by the NKVD (pre-cursor to the KGB).  Alexe makes his escape and finds himself hiding out in the Ukraine in 1941.  The devastation of the Nazi invasion of the USSR in June of that year engulfs the Urkaine. Alexe comes upon the body of a dead Soviet solider, a peasant, and assumes the dead soldier's identify.  Although this provides him some protection from those who might still seek his arrest, Alex realizes quickly that he must maintain this identity at all costs.<br /><br />Alexe makes it through the war in one piece and, in fact, finds favor with a Soviet general, who keeps him at his side as an aide de camp during the rest of the war.  Alexe's survival remains dependent upon his being thought of as a simple peasant. After the war, Alexe finds work with the general's family.  The general's daughter takes a liking to the young 'peasant' soldier. Alexe becomes enamored of the daughter.  The daughter, whose piano-playing skills are somehwat limited, if earnest, decides to teach the young peasant Alexe a few simple tunes on the piano.  These lessons lead, inexorably, to the book's climactic moments.<br /><br />The book leaves the reader (or at least it left me) contemplating the choices and compromises we sometimes make with life.  It left me contemplating the question as to how much of myself would I compromise, how much of myself would I keep hidden in order to maintain some small amount of freedom in an unfree world.<br /><br />As I noted at the beginning, this is a simple story, simply told.  Yet, as with music, sometimes even simple combinations of notes creates a beautiful mosaic of sound.  Makine has done this with the graceful combination of notes that makes up his Music of a Life.	2004-06-14
US	52068296	R3SGJCPUHBOXMV	159307171X	547195894	Michael Chabon Presents. . .The Amazing Adventures of the Escapist, Volume 1	Books	4	37	43	N	N	An Amusing "Comic" Romp	I haven't read a comic book in close to 35 years. I picked Michael Chabon's The Amazing Adentures of the Escapist on a whim because I had read and enjoyed Chabon's novel The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay. Chabon's novel detailed the story of two young men (Kavalier, a refugee who fled from Nazi-occupied Prague after an amazing escape and Klay, his New York cousin)who have a long stormy career after creating a sensational comic book hero - The Escapist. The Escapist, as his name suggests, has the extradorinary Houdini-like ability to escape even the toughest bonds and fights the forces of evil, specifically the Iron League whose ultimate goal is to enslave the world.<br />The Amazing Adventures of the Escapist is the comic book spin off of the novel.  Chabon, together with a team of well known graphic artists (including Kyle Baker, Gene Colan, and Jae Lee) and writers (including Glen David Gold, author of Carter Beats the Devil)has created a series of comics that trace the history of The Escapist.  The comics begin with the 'premiere' episode in the late 1930s and move chronologically through the late 1970s. As with real comics, some stories are better than others. I particularly enjoyed the opening story, The Passing of the Key, which serves as the premiere epdisode that explains the origin of the Escapist.  Prison Break, and Divine Wind (a Japanese version of the Escapist authorized by Kavalier & Clay) were also particularly good.  Although I liked Are You Now or Have You Ever Been (Chabon's comic book look at the McCarthy era) I am not at all certain that any comic published in the 1950s would advance the views contained in it but I enjoyed it nevertheless.  <br />Each section is introduced by brief overviews written by Chabon and his collaborators.  The overviews put the comics in their proper 'historic' context. They are amusing and well written.<br />I very much liked the Amazing Adventures of the Escapist.  As noted, I have not read a comic in quite some time so I claim no particular expertise in this idiom. The era of the modern comic has passed me by. Perhaps now I might look into it further. However, this lay reader enjoyed both the story lines and the art work. Reading these stories took me back to my younger days reading Batman, Superman, Sgt. Fury (and yes - even Mad Magazine).  In short, this is a fun read. I particularly enjoyed the fact that Chabon and the creators played this work out with a straight face even if one can see that they all clearly had fun working on this project. The cover art on the back page which harks back to comic book advertisements of days gone by is a case in point.<br />I think the fact that I had read Chabon's Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay enhanced my enjoyment of this work and I would suggest this may be so for any reader for whom reading comics may be more an exercise in nostalgia than a current avocation.  However, the book does stand up on its own, particularly because each story is advanced by explanatory overviews.<br />Again, this book was a lot of fun.  I entered it with some trepidation at the thought that I was reading a comic - but as I got into it those feelings were replaced by the enjoyment of sitting down for some excellent 'escapist' reading.	2004-06-13
US	52068296	R24KQBF2IWXDKH	0618433600	427557682	Pushkin and the Queen of Spades: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Fine American Novel	Alice Randall's Pushkin and the Queen of Spades, is, simply put, a great novel.  Beginning with the hilarious double entendre of its title the book is rife with meaning and food for thought.  The issues addressed in the book, our internal and external lives at the intersection of race and culture and the long term impact that our relations with our parents have on our own children are often discussed in solemn, ponderous and often overly contentious tones.  Randall will have none of that.  Rather, she embarks on a graceful, biting and often hilarious tour de force that should leave the reader laughing out load while at the same time soaking in the powerful ideas set out neatly inside the pearls of laughter.  Mary Poppins once said a little bit of sugar helps the medicine go down.  In this instance a while lot of sugar and down right great writing helps open our minds to the sometimes provocative issues she sets out.  The story line itself is simple.  Windsor Armstrong is an African American woman, graduate of Harvard, a professor at Vanderbilt University and the holder of a PhD in Russian literature.  Her son Pushkin X is named after the great Russian poet and playwright, Alexander Pushkin (author of a famous book The Queen of Spades) whose own African ancestry formed the emotional basis of his work and life including his tragic death in a duel.  Pushkin X has dashed Windsor's hopes that he would follow in his mother's academic career. He turned down Harvard and played football, at the University of Michigan.  Even worse, Pushkin's football skills have resulted in his becoming a star in the NFL.  The book's plot is revealed in the opening paragraph, perhaps one of the funniest opening paragraphs I have read in recent memory. Brief excerpts follow:  \\"Look what they done to my boy!  . . . Fifty million people have watched him on a single Monday night.  He has given a Russian girl a diamond ring.  He means to get married.  My son is a football player engaged to a Russian-born lap dancer, a girl named Tanya who danced at a club call Mons Venus.  There is a God and he's punishing me. This much bad luck cannot happen by accident.\\"  It soon becomes apparent that Pushkin X has withdrawn his mother's invitation to his wedding after she expresses opposition to the marriage and, more importantly, after she once again refuses to reveal the identity of Pushkin X's father, long a source of contention between mother and son. The rest of the book is devoted to Windsor's internal dialogue in the days leading up to the wedding.  She touches on her early childhood in Detroit up to 1968 and the impact of her relationship with her father, whom she adored, and her mother, whom she did not adore, who took her away from Detroit and her father to D.C.  They arrive in D.C. soon after the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King.  Despite her unhappiness in D.C. the city (and her mother) provides her with the opportunities that take her on her life's journey to Harvard, to Russia and a career as a scholar.  Her internal dialogue continues.  Like a river, her dialogue takes many twists and turns.  Randall's words emerge as a beautiful stream of consciousness that leads us to many new and unexpected destinations.  She is never boring and often profound.  She is also funny and downright sassy at times as she embarks on riffs that touch on such diverse topics as her sex life, Malcolm X, `the souls of black folks', and writers such as Colson Whitehead and others.  She touches on the meaning of being a mother and how the love of a mother (or father) for a child can bring more pain than we sometimes think we can endure.  Simply put, in a context that Windsor Armstrong might enjoy - Curtis Mayfield may have had Windsor Armstrong in mind when he wrote the words \\"the woman's got soul\\".  The identity of Pushkin X's father and the nature of his conception gradually emerge as the book reaches it climax. That climax includes Windsor's wedding gift to Pushkin X - whichgift is worth the price of the book standing alone.  In many respects the structure of Randall's dialogues are reminiscent of James Joyce's Ulysses.  This is not to compare Randall to Joyce necessarily but I think it is no small compliment to the power of Randall's writing to even be thought of with Joyce in the same paragraph.  As Christopher Hitchens once said about a writer once compared to Tolstoy, to be even compared to Tolstoy (or Joyce in this instance) is no small achievement even if one hasn't quite reach that stature (yet). I enjoyed the book tremendously and encourage anyone with an interest in good books to pick this up and read it.  It is a book to be enjoyed and savored.	2004-06-06
US	52068296	R2KZATHWT3YCJC	0312140924	752837064	Waiting for the Dark, Waiting for the Light: A Novel	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The Unbearable Emptiness of Being	Ivan Klima's Waiting for the Dark, Waiting for the Light is set in Czechoslovakia in 1989.  The old Communist regime, in place since 1948, hangs by a thread as the Velvet Revolution, led by students and dissident writers, such as Vaclav Havel (who went on to become President of the Czech Republic) and Ludvik Vaculik among others grows stronger daily.  The novel's protagonist is Pavel Fukova.   The story on its surface centers on Pavel's relationship with his old friend Peter, and Alice the girl they both loved.  The inner story involves Pavel's apprehension about his own life and future as the long hoped for struggle for freedom races towards the finish line.     Pavel is a news cameraman for the government-run Czech television station, an institution loathed by most Czechs as an instrument of oppression, boring news reports, and propoganda. Pavel took on this job after he and his friend Peter were released from prison after they attempted to flee the country in 1968 after Soviet tanks crushed the Prague spring.  (In real life Klima was in the U.S. in August 1968 but choose to return and found his work banned by the Soviet-controlled regime.  In fact, Klima repeatedly refused `offers' from the old regime to emigrate.  When asked why, he explained that \\"to be a writer means also to stick up for people whose fate is not a matter of indifference to me\\").  Pavel realizes that taking on this job may be seen as an implicit acceptance of an oppressive regime but he takes it on while explaining to himself that it will allow him to write screenplays that can be produced once the regime ends.   Scenes from his screenplays, almost all autobiographical to a degree are woven into the novel.  Peter, upon his release from prison, decided to withdraw from society altogether and winds up as the caretaker of a remote old castle far removed from the political storms that best life in Prague.  The core of the novel focuses on the impact those choices have had on Pavel's outward and inward life.       It is hard to explain the impact the novel had on this reader.  I was reminded of two things I had learned in my life.  As a child taking religious instruction I was taught that a \\"sacrament was an outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace.\\"  In Waiting for the Dark I saw how Pavel's outward and visible compromise with an oppressive regime inexorably led to the diminution if not total elimination of whatever inward and spiritual (not necessarily to be taken in a religious context) grace he possessed in his heady younger days when he loved Alice and made a mad, hopelessly futile dash for freedom with Peter.  Peter is scarred inwardly as well, due in part to his insistence on removing himself as far as he could from any outward and visible influences.  Peter acknowledges this late in the novel when he turns to Pavel and says, \\"we are both scarred in our own way.\\"     I was also reminded of the words of the Russian/Soviet writer, Nadezhda Mandelstam, widow of the poet Oisp Mandelstam. She once said that \\"a person with inner freedom, memory, and fear is that reed, that twig that changes the direction of a rushing river.\\"  What Klima has done here I think is to deal with people, in the form of  Pavel, who have made outward compromises with a repressive regime in order supposedly to maintain their inner freedom only to find that those compromises lead to the opposite result. Pavel knows on some conscious level that he is neither a reed or twig that has contributed to the rushing river of freedom.  The realization leads to despair, ennui, and ultimately a life not worth living.  It is Pavel's awareness of the inner emptiness that gives the novel meaning and poignancy.     The book is not perfect by any stretch of the imagination.  I am a careful reader and despite that fact it sometimes left me confused as Klima jumps from the story to Pavel's screenplay in a manner that often left me scratching my head.  I was compelled to re-read a few passages (try) to make sure I understood where Klima was going.     Ultimately, this is a book well worth reading.  It caused me to engage in no small amount of self-reflection and for me that alone was worth the `price of admission.	2004-06-02
US	52068296	R13YBD0BTLSAO2	0810112787	650851404	Closely Watched Trains (European Classics)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A Beautiful Story Beautifully Told	Bohumil Hrabal's Closely Watched Train is a beautiful book whose lingering impact on the reader is greater than one would suspect from looking at its length - 85 pages.  It is the story of a young man, Milos Hrma, an apprentice signalman in a Czech village railway station during WWII.  The term closely \\"watched trains\\" refers to German military (soliers, prisoners, and munitions) trains that must be watched, tracked closely to ensure a smooth passage.  Failure results in close (and often deadly) scrutiny by the Gestapo.  As the story it unfolds that young Milos had recently attempted suicide after his first sexual experience ends disastrously.  The scars on his wrist reflect the internal scars and humiliation suffered as a result of his sexual failure.  The rest of the book focuses on his desire to achieve manhood, by means of a succesful sexual conquest or through some \\"other\\" means.  Milos' quest is ultimately succesful yet with tragic consequences.  An act of simple heroism marks the story's climax.  Along the way Milos has a near fatal encounter with a Gestapo officer after an incident involving a closely watched train.  The understated description of this encounter is a brilliant piece of writing as the officer and Milos closely watch each other's scars before the officer decides to spare his life.  The above summary does not do justice to the concise, sparse tone of Hrabal's prose that conveys great depths of meaning in the course of the story's simple narrative.  <br />This is a beautiful story, beautifully told.  I also recommend the movie (available on Amazon)after reading the book. It won an Oscar for Best Foreign Film in 1966.  The screenplay was written by Hrabal and altough not totally faithful to the book's narrative it is well acted and serves as a nice complement to the book. <br />I strongly recommend this book.	2004-05-25
US	52068296	R3B6BYWOZ09XB2	0812968778	568965033	The Winter Queen: A Novel (An Erast Fandorin Mystery)	Books	3	23	23	N	N	Excellent Summer Reading	Boris Akunin's The Winter Queen was a very nice `read'.  The first in a series, Akunin introduces us to Erast Fandorin, a young investigator newly hired by the Moscow police force.  Erast comes to the police after his father's family fortune took a dramatic turn for the worse that jolted Erast out of a life of upper-income leisure into a career as a detective.  Young, tenacious, intuitive, and more than a bit naïve, Erast is assigned to investigate a clear cut case of suicide.  On its surface, an easy investigation designed to ease Erasts's entry into life as an investigator.  Of course, all is not what it seems and Erast determines quickly that there is more to the case than a simple suicide.  Erast (and Akunin) slowly peel away the layers of mystery and reveals in the process a world-wide conspiracy centered on a series of well run and maintained orphanages endowed by a rich, influential English noblewoman.  Along the way Erast encounters love, lust, gambling, and avoids a series of death defying experiences.  Standing alone the series of events described above sounds rather pedestrian.  A well worn theme.  However, the pleasure to be derived from this book is the setting, late 19th century Russia.  Akunin has a keen eye for detail and atmospherics.  He conveys (as does the excellent translation) a sense of what life must have been life in 19th century Moscow and St. Petersburg.<br />The book ends triumphantly but Fandorin's triumph turns bittersweet n the last few paragraphs.  Although this made for a disconcerting jolt at the end of the book it is quite understandable when one considers that Winter Queen is the first in a long series of Fandorin mysteries.  A happily ever after ending would not leave much room for drama in the next installment.<br /><br />Some have compared Fandorin to Sherlock Holmes with a bit of Inspector Clouseau thrown in for good measure.  I think Fandorin's character stands on its own and needs no comparison to other literary detectives.If I had to provide any sort of comparison it would be to the protagonist in Caleb Carr's The Alienist.  The characters and story lines are quite different of course.  The comparison lies in the impact of the historic locale (19th century New York City and 19th century Moscow) that forms the atmospheric heart of each book.<br /><br />All in all this is a very entertaining piece of mystery writing set in an exotic locale.  It is a perfect book to read on the beach, on a long plane ride, or sitting on a lawn chair in the back yard.  I look forward to the next installment in the series.	2004-05-24
US	52068296	R1JADG6W645DZJ	0865475814	104815263	The Outlaw Sea: A World of Freedom, Chaos, and Crime	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Excellent Writing on a Fascinating Subject	I came to this book as a person who spent over a dozen years in the ocean shipping industry.  For me, William Langewische's The Outlaw Sea is a fascinating look at a subject with which I am intimately familiar.    Langewiesche's gloomy, albeit accurate, portrayal of life at sea for the `low-end' portion of the ocean shipping industry is marked by excellent research and even better writing.  The book has some of the hallmarks of the best fiction.  It unfolds dramatically and keeps the reader's attention.  Langewiesche's portrayal of the passenger ferry Estonia is heartbreaking.  The author pulls no punches.  At one point, Langewiesche discusses the horror of the loss of 852 lives on the Estonia, notes the worldwide outpouring of grief (particularly in Northern Europe) but then pauses to mention that ferry accidents such as this are a routine way of life in the third world (in Asia and Africa in particular) and yet these accidents barely attract our attention.  The terse, matter-of-fact fashion in which Langewiesche imparts this information has a greater impact than it would have if set out in a dogmatic fashion.     Last, Langewiesche turns his eye to the ship breaking business in India.  Vessels that have reached the end of their useful life (and as set out in the book a ship owner's definition of useful life is far longer than may be prudent for safe operation) are run onto beaches in India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan where they are dismantled in a manner that endangers everyone involved.  Life for these ship breakers is nasty, brutal and short.  Langewiesche's portrayal is so well written that one can almost smell the befouled air that lingers over the work area.  The author also sets out the political confrontation between the ship breakers and Greenpeace.  It is an excellent overview of the conflict that arises between first-world political activists and third world throngs struggling to make a life for their families.    I only take two minor issues with the author.  First, in discussing the sinking of the oil tanker Prestige off the coast of Spain, I think the author did not pay sufficient attention to the horrible decision of the Spanish government to deny safe harbor to the damaged vessel.  It is mentioned in passing. The decision to force the Prestige out to sea, before she was damaged beyond repair and before there was a major loss of oil, into stormy and unsafe seas was as much, if not more, to blame for the environmental disaster that followed as the general condition of the vessel before the accident.  The actions of the Spanish government in this regard were reprehensible.  Second, Langewiesche makes much (rightfully) of the negative impact on foreign flag registration, specifically flags of convenience, in terms of vessel safety, poorly trained seamen, etc.  However, it would have been useful to point out as a counterbalance the fact that the Exxon Valdez, the vessel responsible for one of the largest oil spills in U.S. history, was a U.S. flag vessel, built to U.S. flag standards, fully accountable to all U.S. maritime laws and regulations with U.S. officers and crew.    This book is well written, informative, and interesting, whether or not one happens to be in this business.  I highly recommend it to anyone interested in first rate, well researched and written non fiction.	2004-05-18
US	52068296	R33YWD8QI3O5LG	0810115034	493597952	Forever Flowing (European Classics)	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Moving, Thoughtful & Important	Vasily Grossman is something of a forgotten, unsung, giant of Soviet dissident authors.  Born in Berdichev, Ukraine in 1905, Grossman rose to prominence and received national acclaim as a war reporter for Red Star, the official newspaper of the Red Army.  Grossman's coverage of the Battle for Stalingrad was popular and well known.  In fact, Grossman may have been the first reporter to tell the story of the Holocaust, beginning with his reports subsequent to the liberation of Treblinka in Poland.  Prior to the publication (abroad) of Forever Flowing Grossman had seen his other major work, Life & Fate, banned by the KGB.  In February 1961, a KGB Colonel, Vladimir Prokopenko came to Grossman's flat not to arrest Grossman but to arrest his novel \\"Life and Fate\\".  Grossman's manuscripts, carbon copies, notebooks and typewriter ribbons were all seized.  These events took contemporaneously with the authorized publication in the USSR of Solzhenitsyn's One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.  An explanation of why Grossman was perceived as more of a threat than Solzhenitsyn can be gleaned from the contents of Forever Flowing. (The story of the eventual publication of Life and Fate is best left to reviewers of that book.) <br />\\"Forever Flowing\\" tells a simple, yet emotionally deep and politically nuanced tale.  The story begins with the 1957 return to Moscow of Ivan Grigoryevich after 30 years of forced labor in the Gulag.  (1957 marked the year in which the tide of returning prisoners of the Gulag reached its peak.)  He arrives at the flat of his cousin, Nikolay Andreyevich. Nikolay, a scientist with less than stellar skills, has reached some measure of success at the laboratory through dint of being a survivor.  He reaches the top of his profession only after those of his more talented colleagues are skimmed from the laboratory after purges (Stalin's last campaign  - the Doctors Plot - seems to be referenced here) and other typical political campaigns.  The meeting in theflat is entirely unsatisfactory for both parties.  Nikolay is particularly upset (although he is not capable of figuring out why) as he sees his pale imitation of a life reflected through the prism of his cousin's 30 year journey.  Grossman paints a vivid picture of Nikolay, more than a bit jealous that Ivan's light had always shone brighter than his own prior to Ivan's arrest.  Nikolay suffers from the guilt of one who was not arrested and who is painfully aware of the choices he made to keep from being arrested.  In that sense having Ivan sit across from him at the dinner table disturbs Nikolay no end because Ivan represents a mirror into which Nikolay can see only his own hollow reflection.<br />Grigoryevich leaves Moscow for his old city of Leningrad, the place where he was first arrested in 1927.  There, quite by chance, he runs into the person whose denunciation placed him in jail in the first place. Grossman here embarks on a discourse on the different types and forms of denunciation available to the Soviet citizen.  It is a remarkable discourse that shows how many different ways there are to participate in a purge and how many ways there are to legitimize ones participation and/or acquiescence.<br />From Leningrad Ivan travels to a southern industrial city where he finds work and eventually finds a deep and satisfying love in the person of his landlady, a grieving war widow.  That relationship forms the centerpiece of what might be called Grossman's vision that love and freedom are two goals, not mutually exclusive, that form the essence of our shared humanity.<br />The above summary does not do justice to the power and depth of Grossman's prose.  Further, it cannot do justice to the literary and political importance of the work.  Since the death of Stalin, the Soviet line had remained relatively firm - Stalin's excesses were the product of a disturbed mind that represented a horrible deviation from the theory and principles of Leninism.  The USSR's best path is the one that returned it to the path created by Lenin.  Khrushchev first enunciated this line. (Brezhnev never paid it much mind as his own administration marked a step back towards Stalinism in some respects.) Even Gorbachev's perestroika was based on the theory that a return to first-principles, i.e. Leninism, would save the USSR from destruction.  <br />Grossman did not buy into this line and Forever Flowing is noted for a remarkable attack not only on Stalin but on Lenin and Lenin's anti-democratic tendencies that had more in common with Ivan the Terrible than the principles of revolutionary democracy.  \\"All the triumphs of Party and State were bound up with the name of Lenin. But all the cruelty inflicted on the nation also lay - tragically - on Lenin's shoulders.\\"  Grossman may have been the first to make this leap and he paid the price for making that leap. (This involves the suppression of his Life & Fate.)<br />Despite the horrors set out, quietly and without excess rhetoric, Grossman returns to an somewhat optimistic vision of mans search for freedom\\" \\"No matter how enormous the skyscrapers, no matter how powerful the cannon, no matter how unlimited the might of the state, no matter how vast its empire, all this was only smoke and mist which would disappear.  There remained alive and growing one genuine force alone, consisting of one element only - freedom.  To live meant to be a free human being.<br />Forever Flowing (and Life and Fate) are well worth the time and attention of anyone with an interest in the subject matter.	2004-03-22
US	52068296	R23LAATKC9NE6W	0743400755	207470435	Pu-239 And Other Russian Fantasies	Books	3	5	7	N	Y	A decent collection of stories	Pu-239 consists of a collection of six short stories followed by a novella. The short stories cover a broad range of topics and cross the vast geographic expanse (Moscow, Chechnya, an area like Chernobyl, and the former Soviet/Jewish Republic of Birobidzhan) that is the former USSR.  Some of the stories work and read well. Pu-239 and Birobidzhan work particularly well. Others, Orbit and Anzhelika, 13 are acceptable. Salt and Budyonnovsk, are not particularly good.  The Novella, Peredelkino, concludes the collection and is Kalfus' best piece of writing. Ironically, it also explains the pitfall that keeps this work from a higher rating. Much has been made in prior reviews and in the dust jacket of Kalfus' 4-year stay in the USSR/CIS. Some have argued that the stories reflect the broad but ultimately superficial range of Kalfus' knowledge of Russia. This is a valid criticism. However, the importance of that criticism depends upon whether you believe that a short story requires the same kind of depth one would look for in a novel. Further, it depends upon whether you view in-depth knowledge to be a pre-requisite for a good story.  Peredelkino centers on a Soviet writer and member of the Writer's Union during the Brezhnev regime. The protagonist receives fierce criticism for a novel that focuses on life on a Soviet merchant vessel. The criticism centers on his lack of precise in-depth information about life on the ship. It shows, his critics argue, a lack of concern for Soviet realism. The writer complains that the facts were not essential. He writes fiction and the ship was merely a fiction delivery device. Kalfus, to a certain extent, faces the same criticism. Despite his 4-year stay, his stories do not seem to cut below the outer levels of reality of Soviet life. On the other hand, if we accept the settings merely as a fiction delivery device rather than an in-depth excursion into the soul of Mother Russia, the value of the stories as stories are heightened.  Ultimately, this is a book worth reading despite its uneven quality.	2002-01-10
US	52068296	R1W3UWR0C4VYYB	0385498195	953677392	John Henry Days	Books	4	27	31	N	Y	A great American novel	I approached John Henry Days with some trepidation. I enjoyed Whitehead's first novel, The Intuitionist, and thought it could harken the arrival of a strong and enduring literary career. Second novels are challenging, both for the author and for the reader. The author is challenged to live up to the promise of his/her first work. The reader is challenged by virtue of his/her own heightened expectation and anticipation that the second work will outstrip the qualities of the first novel. Whitehead has met his challenge with ease. John Henry Days stands on its own as a great and compelling read. The book also met this reader's challenge. John Henry Days exceeded my heightened expectations.  The book's 'big picture' involves the ongoing, primordial struggle between humanity and technology. The big picture is presented through the prism of John Henry's 19th century battle against the soulldless steam drill and J. Sutter's inner struggle to survive in the souless world of frelance, junketeering oriented writing in the 21st century.  The book is layered and textured through time. The juxtaposition, in the hands of Whitehead works exceedingly well. His writing and prose style is superb. There were some pargraphs that I read two or three times in order to savor better their flavor.  Well done Colson.	2001-07-11
US	52068296	R1FNZJ5XP6G4OY	0679403922	788319158	The Cold Six Thousand	Books	1	9	19	N	N	Mickey Spillane . . but without the class or grace.	If you like your conspiracy theories served raw and undiluted by either rhyme, reason or saved by good writing the Cold Six Thousand is for you. If you think Oliver Stone and Art Bell have a direct line to some higher truth unknown to us naive ill-informedd peasants perhaps this book is for you. Unlike Stone, however, Ellroy does not tell his tale in a compelling or interesting manner. Much has been made of Ellroy's supposed cutting edge style. It didn't work for me. It seemed reminscent of the eager student in a high-school lit class who after admring the beauty of Hemingway's sparse, clean sentences decides to imitate them. But terse writing merely for the sake of creating a 'new style' simply does not work for me. This is particularly true in this book, where none of the characters are compelling, none seem worth caring about, and none seem at all believable or human.  There is no hook to go along with the prose-style. But, if you like 672 pages of terse sentences whose lack of commas is counterbalanced only by an excess and repeated use of every concevable type of racial and ethnic epithet then this book is for you. I am not averse to the use of profanity or epithets in novels. Nor am I averse to vioence and sex. It just gets boring after a while when that is all there is to the novel. It is like the old prono flicks, written about at some length in this book, in which there is no context outside the grainy, poorly-filmed sex. Here, there is no context outside the violence and depravity of the novel's characters so it serves only to deaden the reader's senses. In other words, it has the same impact as novacaine. The only redeeming value of this prose-style is that fact that each painful sentence is read quickly. It did not take long to finhish the book. I awarded it 1 star because, like a bad headache, it feels so much better when it goes away.	2001-07-10
US	52068296	R1HSDFHE9XX8TD	0375502912	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend	Books	5	1	1	N	N	You don't have to love racing to love this book	I have been to race tracks only a handful of times. I cannot call myself a fan. Nevertheles, Laura Hillenbrand has pieced together a fascinating story and set it out in a compelling page-turning fashion. This book finishes in the money on many levels. As a work of history it evokes both an era (the 20's - 30's) and the role that sports in general, and horse racing in particular, played in depression-era America. Hillenbrand's potrayal of the hard-scrabble life of jockeys was particularly vivid and heart-wrenching. As a work of biography its portraryal of the men whose lives revolved around Seabiscuit was spot on. As a narrative, the story unfolds in a well-written suspensful and highly entertaining way. Hillenbrand has succeeded on every level. A great book.	2001-04-18
US	52068296	R1BELKDZF5TNBR	1559705299	512074275	Confessions of a Fallen Standard-Bearer	Books	5	35	35	N	N	A beautiful book.	Confessions of a Fallen Standard-Bearer is a beautiful book. The story  involves two families, that of Yakov Zinger and Pyotr Yevdokimov. The story  is told in the form of a memoir of their youth written by Pyotr's son  Alyosha to Yakov's son Arkady. The story unfolds slowly.      On the surface  the memoirs invoke memories of the children's summers in their village.  They were young pioneers filled (apparently) with a belief in the  inevitable victory of socialism.  As the name of this novel implies they  were the standard-bearers of socialist youth marching towards the `radiant  horizon'. However, flowing beneath the beautiful words evoking their  idyllic summers is the undertone of tragedy that envelops each of the  families' pasts. Those tragedies are slowly and inexorably revealed. Pyotr,  a sniper operating behind German lines during the Second World War lost  both limbs at the hands of an \\"unfortunate artillery mistake' by his own  troops. Yakov survived a German prison camp in Poland by surrounding  himself with a mountain of dead and frozen bodies. Their wives tragic pasts  are also slowly revealed. One survived the siege of Leningrad and witnessed  unspeakable horrors in the process. The other lost her parents to Stalin's  purges and spent her youth in an orphanage for children of those purges.     As  these stories are revealed the boys' otherwise inexplicable actions leading  up to their confrontation with their Pioneer group leaders becomes slightly  more understandable. I cannot convey the beauty of this book in adequate  terms. Its power lies in the contrast between the beauty and power of  Makine's writing about village life through the eyes of innocent children  and the stark but unexpressed horror that percolates through the lives of  these two families. This unstated horror serves as the thematic  counterpoint to the rather unremarkable events that form the core of the  narrative. This was a book worth reading.	2000-09-06
US	52068296	R1Z7DHRM7S58JA	0374280355	605962018	The Unburied	Books	3	9	13	N	Y	Very Well Done!!!	The novel is set in the town of Thurchester in Victorian England. To be precise, the action involves events in and around Thurchester's Cathedral at the end of the 19th Century,  during the reign of King Alfred, and during England's civil war. In essence this is one novel contains three interwoven stories and plots. Each of these three stories contain a 'mystery' involving death, martyrdom, or  murder in and around the cathedral grounds.     The stories unfold in an  entertaining and very well written fashion. Palliser does a masterful job  creating characters and atmosphere. Palliser does not draw you into this  novel in an abrupt fashion. Rather, you are absorbed into the story over  time. The novel kept me interested from cover to cover. It is more than a  little ironic perhaps that one of Palliser's strengths, the ability to  create realistic characters - warts and all - caused my only, small, discomfort  with the novel. Neither of Unburied's two protagonists, Courtine and  Fickling, were in anyway appealing to me. It was not simply that there were  both seriously flawed people. Neither one of them seemed to have any  character traits that would cause the reader (me in this instance) to feel  any affinity for the situation of that character. This is not a problem  with Palliser's writing. I thought it was clear that he did not intend for  the characters to be particularly sympathetic. I have seen more  than my share of both Courtines and Ficklings in my time. I think I need to feel some kind of emotive tie to one or more of the characters of a  novel for it to really grab a hold of me. This did not get in the way of the story or in any way lessen its excitement. The reader who does not share  this compunction need not be concerned.     This book is a very well written  glimpse into three different eras in the history of a town and its people.  The structure and presentation were excellent and interesting.  It is a  book worth reading.	2000-04-28
US	52068296	R2U7LTOK42S95Y	0375502920	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Missed my metro station twice while reading this book!	Much has already been written about this book (41 reviews to date) and I whole-heartedly endorse the positive adjectives used in earlier reviews. Because this book has been reviewed so often, I confine myself to a few  general comments. Absorbing and entertaining spring to mind as the two  words most appropriate to describe the reading experience. As noted in the  headline, I missed my metro stop twice on consecutive nights because I was  too engrossed to hear my station announced.  Liss has done a wonderful job  creating a powerful living image of early 18th-century London. I could hear  the rats scurrying by Benjamin Weaver's feet as he walked along the Thames.  Liss has created a compelling character in Benjamin Weaver. The details of  Weaver's life, and those of his father and uncle, ring true. Liss'  evocation of the state of Jewish-Gentile relations in 18th century London,  particularly the prideful ignorance of the latter for the ways and mores of  the former, also rings true. (Actually, based on my 5 years experience in  the U.K. in the 1970's a lot less has changed than some people may like to  believe). Liss takes a difficult topic, the emergence of the world's  earliest stock markets and its economic underpinnings, and made it  interesting, readable, and understandable. The machinations behind the  operation of the stock market are woven seamlessly into the novel's plot  line. The plot is well thought out and very effectively executed. A  potential reader should not hesitate to read this book simply because the  operation of stock markets seems out of their realm of knowledge. I am not  a stock market buff, but that did not hinder my appreciation of the story.  Finally, the stage appears to be set for future novels involving Benjamin  weaver. I look forward to reading them.	2000-04-28
US	52068296	R18UE56BJ4R23F	0374111197	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Words at the intersection of culture and national identity	Seamus Heaney's Beowulf consists of two inextricably linked parts. The first is Heaney's 30-page introduction. The second is Heaney's new translation of Beowulf. As impressed as I was with Beowulf itself, the  Introduction alone I found to be extremely moving and well worth the  \\"price of admission\\". In 30 pages Heaney takes us to that place  where words are important. In this place the words we use, their nuances  and inflections, and the context in which we use them tell us volumes about  our national and cultural identity. Heaney, himself a product of the north  of Ireland, quotes the poet W.R. Rdogers with glee: the people of Ulster  are \\"an abrupt people / who like the spiky consonants of speech  / and  think the soft ones cissy\\". Heaney's exuberant discovery of the path  taken by words such as 'thole\\" and 'uisce' open a mirror into Heaney's  world view and his linguistic soul. \\"The place on the language map  where the Usk and the uisce and the whiskey conincideed was definitely a  place whre the spirit might find a loophole . . . where one's language  would not be a simple badge of ethnicity or a matter of cultural preference  or official imposition, but an entry into further language.\\"    Having  thus set us up with this introduction, it becomes impossible to read  Beowulf and its blood feuds between Scandanavian clans without reference to  more contemporary blood feuds (Irish/English Serb/Croat). Consequently,  Heany's introduction provides the reader with contemporary (and historical)  resonances that enrich the reading experience.  Lastly, I hesitated before  purchasing Beowulf. I tend to avoid joining book-buying stampedes,  particularly when a 'classic' book attains almost cult status. I an happy  that those concerns did not prevent me from buying and reading Beowulf.	2000-04-17
US	52068296	R24OASCN0AAPFU	0140274960	40693657	Felix in the Underworld	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	If you like Rumpole, you'll like Felix.	In his book The Joys of Yiddish, Leo Rosten sets out the distinction betwen a schlemiel (a fool) and a schlimazel (one prone to misfortune)thusly: A schlemiel is the waiter that trips while carrying a  large bowl of soup to a table. The schlimazel is the person that ends up  with the soup on his lap.  Felx Morsom, the ptoagonist of Felix in the  Underworld is the quintessential English schlimazel. Though not a fool,  Felix plays an altogether passive role as misfortune falls upon him.  The  strength of Mortimer's book lies in his ability to portrary Felix in a  charming, almost winsome manner while at the same time moving the story  ahead in a plesant fashion. Mortimer has a keen eye for detail. The book is  easy to read, amusing, and charming.	2000-03-23
US	52068296	RRKRA0DA7EVS5	0300080301	888346679	Five Days in London, May 1940	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	An excellent book.	Lukacs does a good job here. I found the text to be both informative and entertaining. Lukacs focuses upon the relationship between Churchill, Halifax, and Chamberlain.  Chamberlain acted as the man-in-the-middle, the  fulcrum upon which Churchill and Halifax see-sawed over the question of  prolonging the struggle against Nazi Germany.  Lukacs sheds a great deal of  light (for me) on Neville Chamberlain's critical role in this debate.  Much  has been written about Chamberlain and the policy of appeasement. History  has not been kind, and perhaps for good reason, to Chamberlain. Not much  has been written (or at least read by me) about Chamberlain's critical role  in the war cabinet after resigining as Prime Minister. It appears that  Chamberlain saw (finally), more clearly than Halifax the true nature of  Hitler and his evil. As a result, his eventual decision to side with  Churchill. Given the fact that Chamberlain was held in very high regard by  Tory MPs, Chamberlain's support was critical both to the decision to stay  in the war, and to Churchill's status as P.M. Curchill's magnanimous and  kindly treatment of Chamberlain, and Chamberlain's decision to support  Churchill's efforts to fight to the end, speak volumes about the character  of both men.  If this had been a work of fiction I would have expected the  final debate between Halifax and Churchill to represent an emotional  crescendo. Since this is a historical piece, the last deebate ended not  with a bang but with a whimper.  This is not Lukacs' fault of course.  As  to the book's structure.  I did find the inserts re the Government's morale  bureau to be somewhat distracting. I disagree with an earlier reviewer who  found the fotnotes to be a distraction.  I prefer footnotes to endnotes.  This was a well-written book and should be read by anyone with an interest  in the period.	2000-03-09
US	52068296	RCI26GMQKN2H5	0385493266	670334974	In Concert Performance	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Bravo! Bravo!	I truly enjoyed Dezhnev's In Concert Performance. It was touching, poetic, and took me far beyond the confined and limited realm of my Washington metro commuter train. I do not often highlight, or underline passages in  novels.  With this book I felt compelled to do so. As an example and as  early as page 4 of the book Dezhnev sets out what must surely be the most  vivd description of the empotions underlying a 'mid-life crisis.  He writes  . . . \\"Then the day comes when with autumnal clarity you see the  superfluousness and mediocirty of what's going on, and this knowledge makes  you want to bury your head in the protective bleakness of ordinary life,  walk around half asleep, and slowly and inconspicuously slip into a  different world.  The soul calcifies with age and you no longer have the  strength or hope to resond to feelings.  Getting no answer, love passes by.  [ . . . ] Still, all would be well, everything would be peaceful, except  for the hidden danger that existgs at this age. The beast of vanity, which  until now has fed on hope, suddenly goes on the warpath. Everything has  fizzledout, everything is past its prime, and what's left is the one thing  you can't accept - you're nobody and you haven't lived at all!\\"  I  found this passage, and other passages throughout the book to resonate with  me in a profundly moving way.  Finally, do not be fooled by the somber  nature of the above passage.  The book has its sarcastic, funny, and  lighthearted momeents as well.  This book was well worth reading - and will  be one of the few that I will turn to again with th epassage of time.	2000-03-02
US	52068296	RLECVP3FA9ZT0	0679444017	429552667	The New Sweet Style	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Sporadically Briliant But Ultimately Disappointing	I picked up this book wth great antipication.  I arrived at the bookstore and was thrilled to see a new Aksyonov novel in the just-released fiction section. After reading the jacket-cover I left with great anticipation.  Perhaps my great anticaption fueld my ultimate disappointment. The first  third of the book was compelling and well-written. I devoured the this part  in rapid fashion. Unforunately, I became mired in and not a little confused  by the author's flights of fancy, spinning off from the text in all  directions, a frolic of its own.  Others may find the diversions  delightful.  I found it increasingly difficult to focus as I worked through  the book.  It also occured to me that I was \\"working\\" through the  book in an effort to finish it rather than devouring each page.  There were  delights to be found in the latter two-thirds of the novel. In my opinion,  those sporadic delights do not overcome the rather esoteric complexities of  major portions of the work.  As always, others may be delighted by the tone  and content of the novel.	2000-01-24
US	52068296	R28J3NGOFYOXNX	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	5	63	66	N	N	Brilliant    .  .  .  Literate   .  .  .  Compelling	I first read Koestler's Darkness at Noon in high school, close to 30 years ago.  Although I cannot recall my earlier reaction to the book, I am certain that I was not prepared, as a 17-year old, to appreciate either the  literary beeauty or socio-political importance of Koestler's masterpiece.  <br />I came back to this book for two reasons.  I had just finished reading  Volkogonov's &quot;Stalin&quot; and &quot;Trotsky&quot; and Solzhenitzyn's  Red Wheel (Volume I). Darknesss at Noon seemed to be the next appropriate  book to pick up off the shelf.  <br />I had also been reading about the  remarks President Clinton made (alluded to by other reviewers) to Sid  Blumenthal indicating that he felt &quot;like the prisoner in Darkness at  Noon.&quot;<br />It is, perhaps, either a sad testament to human nature, or an  indicia of the power of great literature, that the story of the fate of one  (fictional) man, Rubashov, can feel more compelling than the narrative  description (in &quot;Stalin&quot; and &quot;Trotsky&quot;) of the fate of  millions.  <br />Further, whereas Volkogonov's works go a long way towards  explaining what happened and how it happened, Rubashov's self-crticial  analysis, and his dialogues with Ivanov and then Gletkin go a long way  towards explaining why the purges  happened.  It helps explain the mindset  of those many, like Rubashov, who confessed their non-existent sins before  their ineveitable demise.  It also goes a long way to explaing why so many  millions of people actively participated in the denunciations that  accompanied the purges and show trials.<br />Clinton's comparison to Rubashov  is rich with unintended irony.  Perhaps Clinton, like me, had not read the  book since high school, and felt that Rubashov was the purely innocent  victim of a prosecutorial system run amok. However, Koestler makes it clear  that Rubashov was not merely a vicitim of Stalin, or Stalin's henchmen, but  of the system that Rubashov (a hero of the revolution)himself played an  important role in creating.  Rubashov spent a life filled with deceit,  manipulation, and even murder, on behalf of his party and its &quot;core  values&quot;.  The doctrine of the end justifying the means was a  cornersone of Rubashov's philosphy and morality.  Whatever &quot;core  values&quot; existed at the beginning of his revolutionary life with the  party had long since withered to nothingness by the time of his  imprisonment.  Consequently, if President Clinton's comparison of himself  to Rubashov was based upon the idea that Rubashov was a purely innocent  victim, he is just wrong. To the extent Clinton was aware that Rubashov was  in no small way responsible for creating the milieu under which this  despicable actvity takes place - then he is more self-aware than I had  previously given him credit for.<br />Finally, the book is just darn  well-written.  Of particular beauty and impact are Rubashov's dialues with  his interrogators.<br />Pick up this book and read it.	1999-04-09
US	52068296	R70HQ0070H4ZM	0374519994	705074922	August 1914	Books	4	17	21	N	N	A window into Russia's heart of darkness	Aleksandr Solzhenitzyn's (\\"A.S.\\") August 1914: The Red Wheel paints a marvelous portrait of Russia at the crossroads of the 20th century.  By way of background, I read David Remnick's Resurrection about  Russia's post -USSR struggles.  Remnick writes a beautiful chapter on A.S.,  his life, his exile, Western Europe and the U.S. intelligentsia's  dismissive treatment of him, and his return to Russia.  Reminick's  extraordinary discourse on A.S. is the perfect prelude to this work because  it allows the reader to view the work with a greater respect for the man  and his vision.  The work itself is compelling in its own right.  Some  have suggested that it would be helpful to have some background knowledge  of the events leading up to W.W. I, the revolutionary ferment enveloping  Russia between 1901 and 1917, and the \\"players' involved in that  process. Fair enough comment, but not essential.  The reader should not be  scared off from this work merely because he/she does not consider  themselves particularly knwoledgeable aout Russia.  A.S.'s descriptions of  the Battle of Tannenburg, the life and times of Stolypin and Bogrov, his  assassin ,make for both  beautiful writing and a deeper understanding of  the events the made the October revolution a foregone conclusion. Finally,  A.S.'s focus on the disastrous Battle of Tannenburg sheds great light on a  critical battle that has not been more than cursorily  examined by eminent  historians such as Maritin Gilbert or even Winston Curchill in his classic  World Crisis.  My sole disappontment was with A.S.'s use of what may be  called the 'camera-eye' or multi-media type inserts.  It seemed stale  compared to its breathtaking freshness when used by Dos Pasos in his  U.S.A.. trilogy.  It also seemed to detract from the beauty and flow of the  writing itself.  (Looking back, Dos Pasos didn't suffer from the  distraction.) The reader with any interest in Russia, world history,  military history, or just plain good literatureshould seriously consider  reading this work.	1998-12-24
US	52068296	R3KJGUOL5NQVXI	0679435328	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	4	42	44	N	N	Well done!	Carr has done an excellent job. The story line and the characterizations were excellent.<br /> To his credit, Carr manages to refer the reader to the protagonists' earlier adventure (see The Alienist) while at the same time providing enough information about the earlier adventure so that it stands alone.  This serves both the reader familiar with the Alienist but who needs to have their recollections refreshed, and the first time Carr reader.  (I am often frustrated and annoyed at authors who presume reader familiarity with their collected works.) <br /> Carr also manages to portray early-day feminists and feminist theory in what I perceive to be an authentic fashion.  In other words, I felt he accurately portrayed feminist thought in its incipient stages. Any so-called immaturity of thought on the parts of those characters seems, in historical context, appropriate. <br /> My only complaint was the voice of the narrator, Stevie.  The intonation, accent, and method of speaking may very well be accurate.  However, I found it grating to see the obligatory \\"what\\" every few paragraphs. (E.G. The girl what had the burney.)  I am both relieved and intrigued to hear that Carr plans to write additional Alienist volumes and put each one in a different voice.  All in all, an excellent work.	1997-10-27
