US	52066663	R250OX8MIZIG5K	1570270392	317643719	Dreamer of the Day: Francis Parker Yockey & The Postwar Fascist International	Books	5	20	28	N	N	An Extremely Well Written Biography.	Yockey supporters comprise an important thread in today's pro-White politics, although unlike Kevin Coogan most would be hard pressed to tell you what the tormented Yockey was all about. <br />They usually remember very little of Yockey's own book Imperium, outside of Willis Carto's incredibly good introduction for it. No, I'm not actually a big fan of the controversial Carto, it's just a much repeated observation from readers; so give the devil his due.<br />I did meet Carto's two leading promoters of Yockeyism in 1970, however, as they promoted it through the National Youth Alliance just before William Pierce bought the organization and immediately dropped the emphasis on that particular NS spin. <br />Neither of Carto's representatives, however, could go very far in relating what Yockey was all about, so they soon relapsed into their own interpretations of German National Socialism to fill in the empty spaces. <br />They also eventually dropped out of pro-White politics, as recycled or repackaged National Socialism leads to a lot of frustration for those who persist in trying to import it.<br />Then how is Yockeyism important? In this way: The Yockey cult, which I subscribed to in my own youth, is additional evidence that pro-White politics is bogged down by cultism, hazy ideas, suicidal tendencies, and an unprogressive elitism that has been long celebrated because it can look good on the surface<br />The proWhite movement has long settled for much less than it really can be, with dreamers, boasters, and the occasional death in despair actually becoming a far more fashionable trend than even in Yockey's time.<br />Today's further declined environment has spawned few real leaders and many without military experience. These have never known camaraderie, the horrors of war, building community, or even a higher authority. <br />And some form cults to gain a safe and comfortable existence for themselves, while they spend their time creating publications to motivate OTHERS to sacrifice everything. <br />The latter anomaly would not be much of a problem except for one thing, there isn't a conscious community for the suicidal to represent. And those who do survive the mismanagement of our race's destiny will never see a dime for legal expenses from the unchanged and unworthy old White community. <br />And that's who many want to sacrifice for, offering their own politics from the past in the process. They would not be so far off the track if they had read Euroknowledge's page about Pioneer Little Europe being today's alternative to Yockeyism - and the other cults that operate in much the same way.<br />Our people actually require military veterans who have the discipline to be the community builders of a more ethical pro-White politics. We need those who are really worthy of leading the conscious community during every challenges to it. <br />And our people, who are mostly millions engaged in more ordinary tasks and thoughts, need guides who don't require interpreters for such an urgent message.	2002-01-26
US	52066663	RXSUWEJNL9SMT	027597054X	952314823	Sympathy for the Devil: The Emmanuel Baptist Murders of Old San Francisco	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	The Best Version Of This Case Since 1895:	As I have been constructing my own version of this story for years, and have at least developed an experienced sense for what is credible and what is not along the way, I am honored to be the first customer to review Virginia McConnell's book.<br /><br />To begin with, this is the best book cover anyone ever used for the case - and I have almost every important image ever published on it - because it is the first cover to ever show the unusual red-ocher color of the church and the great shadow it cast onto Bartlett Street. I actually spoke to a witness who claimed to see this in his youth, so it's quite impressive that someone got it right.<br /><br />The text of this book is just as pleasing, as it not only accurately relates what was known - expertly navigating through the contradictions and pitfalls long associated with this case - but goes well beyond by adding in documents previously missing.<br /><br />I was particularly impressed at the many firsts achieved here: Previous authors said the first victim, Blanche Lamont, was beautiful, but McConnell actually delivers the best photo to prove it.<br /><br />Blanche's face reminds me a lot of women like Britain's Kate Winslet and San Francisco's Alma Spreckels. And no other published image ever made that kind of impression on this Titanic fan.<br /><br />Previous authors only mentioned the mysterious Flora Upton, making it sound as if she disappeared forever, but Ms. McConnell not only traces her movements but provides us with another amazing photo. Yes indeed, Flora had an exquisite face as well.<br /><br />As Ms. McConnell managed to find these pictures, frequently by finding the relatives in possession of them, she was also able to flesh out the characters of the people better than they were at any time since 1895.<br /><br />Previous authors merely claimed there was a controversial but apparently lost photograph of the murderer taken at a picnic, Ms. McConnell at least provides the newspaper drawing based on itand lets you make of it what you will.<br /><br />Hopefully, if and when I finish my own book, a publisher will appreciate what I have discovered as well, but Sympathy for the Devil just raised the standard in a big way.	2001-10-19
US	52066663	RPDEWDJSXIV71	0312263856	954340830	California Babylon: A Guide to Site of Scandal, Mayhem and Celluloid in the Golden State	Books	5	5	8	N	N	This Is The Ultimate Guide For Visiting Famous Sites	I've actually been into this sort of thing for years, visiting any local sites associated with the more sensational stories of the San Francisco Bay Area, and there simply isn't a better general guide to cover the many other California stories that are even further away.<br />I say general because I like to read about many other incidents, even those that are no more than bizarre accidents or forgotten front page stories from the Victorian era. I will determine where those occurred too, and newspapers often publish addresses.<br />The Southern California people with this book will be green with envy that I have easy access to places they don't, and I feel the same way about their area. I'll just have to wait until I get a chance to visit the Southern parts of this state again.<br />Among the sites I have gone to here in San Francisco are Jimmy Stewart's Apartment from the 1958 thriller Vertigo, and the apartment house where the Symbionese Liberation Army brainwashed Patty Hearst in the closet in 1974. I had already read Patty's own riveting account of the kidnapping, so that particular site made an even more ominous impression.<br />The Vertigo site has very relaxed vibes, and the SLA site really unsettling vibes. I even looked into the hallway of the latter and noticed a creepy gun sight like design in the old colored windows. Anyone would notice those while going up the stairs, and that's all the more interesting because the SLA practiced with pellet guns in the bathroom during the three months they were there.<br />One of the things I like about seeing all these places is that they give a local resident a kind of frame of reference about the neighborhoods. Even most cab drivers won't know the city like those who have this little encyclopedia as they travel around.<br />I never really paid much attention to some areas before, like the ones associated with rock n roll history in the Haight Ashbury and elsewhere, but now when I hear people talking about many legendary names I have visual references to real places and it's something we can both talk about. <br />If you'd like to chat about this hobby, send me an e-mail. I'm working on an 1895 San Francisco history book that will also have a generous list of places to visit at the end, and I'll let my fellow time trippers know if the project is ever completed.	2001-09-20
US	52066663	R3JB6L9GY1TL1Q	0914576151	384121996	The Dispossessed Majority	Books	5	52	58	N	N	Whatever Became Of These Extraordinary Observations?	This is the most accurate and detailed explanation ever offered on why the political interests of Whites are sliding downhill fast, even though this book places very little emphasis on the solutions for turning the situation around. For that part of the picture, those who buy this book should also read Robertson's \\"The Ethnostate.\\" Despite that and other efforts from Robertson, his supporters did not succeed in constructing an Ethnostate.     That's not because he or they were wrong, though, it's because ordinary and less intellectual Whites were never given down-to-earth explanations on where they fit into the building process. Had Robertson spoken about organizing political communities on a more modest level, similar to how hippies, gays, Chinese, and others built their political communities in San Francisco, his own people would probably have succeeded. To put it in Nathan Bedford Forrest's terms, they would have become those who got there \\"the first-ist with the most-ist.\\"     The organization which actually has that honor may be the American Friends of the British National Party in Virginia, as they use Robertson-esque terminology for their process of building \\"Pioneer Little Europe(s)\\" on a neighborhood level. It's getting a much better response, even with much less effort, because everyone sees what they can personally do right away. Now even Robertson's idealistic and far-reaching vision has a chance to rise up on their cornerstone of hard logic.	2001-05-01
US	52066663	R3CJHH0TVB4C00	0025447904	392718718	Overcoming the Fear of Death	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One Of The few Books I've Treasured For Thirty Years:	Back around 1972 I noticed this book on a revolving rack of Penguin published paperbacks (although I prefer to keep the hardback edition Macmillan published in 1970 in my permanent collection). As Penguin's emphasis is on providing the most exceptional literature civilization has ever produced, and this modern offering was displayed in that class, I realized its mere 115 pages had quite an endorsement. Although I have no real fascination with death, and don't buy much with that theme, I was prompted to read this book. The defining moment for me came when the author got his central point across, with a convincing number of examples, about how those who live the fullest lives actually accept a certain amount of physical risk. On the other hand, even though I'm sure he's right about race car drivers and others getting addicted to their adrenaline rushes, I count myself among those who still prefer less risk than that. The greatest physical risks we take are in our youth, and as we grow older, more experienced, and certainly less flexible, most of us just naturally reduce the amount of risk we take on. As high risk activities are especially fashionable among young people today, those who would like to explore or critique the value of that trend will enjoy this unusual book that was decades ahead of its time.	2001-03-28
US	52066663	RO5KTQVN3DX4I	0385170564	656242676	Every Secret Thing	Books	5	17	41	N	N	Best Mainstream Critique of the Left &amp; The Government:	Many who read Patty Hearst's book, &quot;Every Secret Thing,&quot; will discover that she contributed the clearest critique ever offered of the anti-white mindset associated with Marxist terrorists (and many liberals). When there is a Pulitzer prize for books helpful to the cause of Americans of European descent, let it go to her. <br />Mrs. Hearst also spoke out against the government's common practice of burning its opponents alive; which was done in the SLA case (even when they believed Patty was in the building), in the Gordon Kahl tax protester case, the Robert Matthews case, and in the Branch Davidian case. <br />I have worked in fire safety for fifteen years, and while many people may think burning their political opponents alive is just as good as any other way (As in, the means justified by ends), let me assure you that it's horrifying beyond belief. It's got to be stopped, for it's a tactic we might better have expected in some no holds barred racist novel, though I don't recall even one of those stooping that low.	2001-01-15
US	52066663	R1RAYQMH6BG04J	0452010519	851977825	The Ayn Rand Lexicon: Objectivism from A to Z (Ayn Rand Library)	Books	5	13	71	N	N	It's The Only Reference You May Need Just To Reject Her:	I've given this book five stars, but my reasons for doing so will stir the entire Ayn Rand cult onto the war path (most book reviews aren't this closely monitored by robot slaves who are conditioned to fight for the master).  If you don't want to waste a lot of your time trying to figure out what that cult is all about, plodding your way through those novels of hers which are so appreciated by shallow moral drifters, buy this book.  Rand was known for her cleverness, but as she only applied it to surviving in a world where she was profiting from within someone else's dissolving ethnic society, her concept of the world is alien.  It does not even matter if she is or isn't ahead of the pack on nearly everything she thought, though many believe the aphorisms in this lexicon suggest she was, as dangerous people are often so talented at shaking the suckers down.  Those who examine this quick reference book will soon discover  that in typical Capitalist fashion she had little respect for ethnic cultures or society's weak (even if the fallen are your family), so don't look here if you seek the solution to this nation's homeless crisis.  And when Rand turns to discussing families in a larger sense, as racial groups, she soon shows that in her \\"religion\\" visible races are bad for the desired Utopia (which is actually much less visible in her culture).  In a capitalist society, as in Marxist societies, a person is merely a worker. It does not matter to a Capitalist if the worker's social support is totally eroded - whether that's family, culture, or race - as long as the worker comes to the job every day and worships mammon.  And you can credit ego-centered people such as Rand next time you notice an on-the-job shooting, the increased divorce rate, the fashion of reverse discrimination, and the dominant consumer culture.  It's very useful to be able to place Rand's idelology - or theology - within the context of modern society's drift to disaster, as she has so many fans in places like Silicon Valley where any traditional mode of social interaction is devalued.  This may be the only reference book a more spiritually developed person would ever need for determing that Rand's not all there for someone else - though she may certainly be there for herself.  In other words, although Rand's ethinc cultural background provides her with the skills she needs to survive in the extremely deep water that is self-interest and the social breakdown of other cultures, she has no moral right to entice all the more innocent swimmers to come out and join her. For more on this be sure to check out Rand's admiration for William Edward Hickman, the murderer of twelve year old Marion Parker in 1927; there's an especially worthy article on that controversy by Michael Prescott.	2001-01-14
US	52066663	R10E7QFQQ0C67	0871316226	522532471	The American Legion: An Official History, 1919-1989	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Too Bad He Avoids All The Scandalous details.	This is a disappointingly bland history of the American Legion, and like many another dull corporate history it puts the reader to sleep by avoiding anything deemed too colorful for the sensibilities of those emotionally or financially invested.<br />The author does indeed mention the organization's major turning points, but then demonstrates a lack of nerve about discussing these in any detail. He avoids saying too much about those who rocked the organization - or in many cases splintered off - just prior to WW2 because they developed rival enthusiasms for various nations preparing for war. <br />Most were the ex-legion members who became rival claimants to the legionnaire's social authority when they formed uniformed organizations such as the Silvershirts and the German American Bund, among many others motivated by such foreign ideologies as fascism and national socialism; and even some of the American Legion's key personalities were accused of treason.<br />Serious readers would have appreciated knowing more about the pressures which caused the American Legion, among other veterans groups, to abandon its original perspective of being a &quot;whites only&quot; organization during the controveries of the Civil Rights era.  All this happened in less than a quarter of a century, so look elsewhere if you suspect that today's American Legion bears little resemblance to its past history.	2000-11-29
US	52066663	R1M5OD6DAX978G	0312170092	814253814	Shallow Grave in Trinity County	Books	5	29	31	N	N	One of The Leading San Francisco Bay Area Murder Stories.	Not only did I buy this book by Mr. Farrell, but I also bought another book on this case by Keith Walker, A Trail of Corn (Selling at Bill &amp; Kathy's Restaurant, none the less), because the Burton Abbott case is very much like one I'm writing myself, the Theodore Durrant case of 1895. <br />I greatly appreciate authors who provide addresses, maps, and photos, and Mr. Farrell was generous on all counts. As I live in the Bay Area, and have written two unrelated self-guided walking tours, I like to visit all the sites associated with any story that touches me emotionally. Mr. Farrell certainly succeeded with his central task. <br />In fact, his narrative is so riveting that I soon drove over to Berkeley and retraced the route Stephanie Bryan walked before her kidnapping. One of the strengths of this book is that the reader gets a sense of knowing the victim, her parents, the accused kidnapper, and even a comprehension of how most of the people central to this story had their lives ruined. <br />Those who are familiar with this famous case may also appreciate knowing, even though this murder happened in 1955, that Willard Junior High, the library, Dream Fluff Donut shop, the suspected ambush path, tunnel road, the Bryan's former residence, the Abbott family's former residence in Alameda, the court house in Oakland, and San Quentin Prison are all still there to be seen! <br />Imagine seeing those sites for a moment. And if you want any help finding them just e-mail me.	2000-11-26
US	52066663	R31GAQZH1FEN5I	0961768150	880713426	Holy City: Riker's Religious Roadside Attraction	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	It's The Only Book Available On Riker &amp; Holy City.	At first I was a little disappointed when I saw that there were only 94 pages to this book, and even those are loaded with photographs, but this material is so rare that it's worth the price of a regular size book. I had heard about Riker and Holy City back in 1968 from someone who had once visited there, and I have only encountered paragraph sized references since, but eventually one of those spurred me to find about four web pages on this subject. <br />Once I got the general idea of the Holy City story, and figured out where this place is hidden from the modern world of political correctness, I felt compelled to visit personally. It's mostly an empty crossroads in the woods, and I got lost a couple of times trying to arrive there, but it was worth it to meet Tom of the Holy City Glass Shop and to see the outside of Riker's old house. Tom's very good with the occasional visitor who comes out of curiosity, although his business isn't related to what Riker had there, and he was able to answer every question I posed.<br />Often denounced as an eccentric cult leader, Riker is still fondly remembered as the most colorful character in the history of the San Carlos, California area. His Utopia was located on this mountainous summit to the west of the downtown area from 1918 until about 1941, between San Jose and the seaside community of Santa Cruz. Riker erected large garish signs and displays to advertise his ideas about religion and the white race, and his commercial buildings provided all manner of roadside attractions to travelers, including a restaurant, gas station, amusement parlor, hotel, soda pop bottling plant, print shop, barber shop, telescope, and radio station. <br />Adopting the tactic of designating &quot;teachers&quot; for his recruits, much as early Christians did (Although there never was a church built in Holy City), Riker routinely transformed even the homeless into loyal and confident supporters. And it was often they who operated the many Holy Cityservices so appreciated by motorists. During World War 2 his politically contradictory and outspoken passions for both the German and Jewish peoples nearly got him convicted of treason. <br />The highway cuts through the mountains to connect San Jose to Santa Cruz, but business largely collapsed there when the site was bypassed by the modern highway. All that remains of the original Holy City is a few private buildings and the natural background which appears in some of the old photos; Riker's house, garage, and storage shed are difficult to see from the road as they are partially blocked by the trees which grew up since. Across the street from the Riker house is Tom's glass shop, on part of the property that Riker established for commerical use, and Tom keeps some faded copies of Riker's old newspaper posted on a bulletin board. <br />Riker's own published materials from Holy City include: The Philosophy of the Nerves; the New Jewish Religion; World Peace &amp; How To Have It, and many smaller publications such as his Enlightener newsletter in 1917; Sheet Music titled &quot;Please Don't Leave Me, Daddy&quot; in 1945; The leaflet &quot;I Will Come Again&quot; in the 1950s; &quot;A 16 Point Program&quot; in the 50s; and &quot;Make Me Your Next President&quot; in the 1950s. Materials such as these rarely pop up even as collectibles, so Betty Lewis's book is the most useful explanation available. <br />My impression of Riker is probably more positive than the way most people see him today, although I don't agree with everything he said on race. And his religious views look a lot like what was popular in my father's day, but Riker was certainly more eccentric or poetic in the way he expressed himself. My impression is that Riker was very much a product of his time. Anyway, if you buy this book and feel like mulling it over some more, feel free to contact me.	2000-10-05
US	52066663	R149GFUN7RWUVY	1883536065	430285700	Battle for the Mind: A Physiology of Conversion and Brainwashing - How Evangelists, Psychiatrists, Politicians, and Medicine Men Can Change Your Beliefs and Behavior	Books	5	26	37	N	N	One of the Ten Most Important Books In This Century.	A friend of mine told me about this book in the early 1970s. He was working for a retired doctor of physics who had gone into politics, and informed me that the doctor thought of this book as being of extraordinary significance. One of my methods for finding useful knowledge is to investigate the recommendations of those whom I suspect are intellectually or spiritually more developed than myself. Now I've added Sargant's book to my list of the most astonishing and useful books of all time. For decades it was also a much sought after rare book, usually unobtainable, so in case that happens again you might consider buying it now. This is one of the few books which can clearly explain the step by step physiological process taking place in the mind as someone acquires a new belief system. Most of the authors in this field succumb to the temptation to politicize the subject, so with the exception of the Ivan Pavlov's or Conway/Siegelman studies, they tend to be vastly inferior to Sargant's. Often the subject was denounced as totally Communistic or as the science of brainwashing, because the science was prostituted to Marxist regimes in Russia, China, North Korea, and elsewhere, but the brain is indeed an organ which will accept a conditioning process as naturally as our muscles. Yes, it's possible to casually say everyone is brainwashed, but the term is far more limited and politically biased than a really good understanding of conditioned reflexes reveals. I gave this book five stars, even though Sargant felt it necessary to be politically correct about his own mainstream Christian beliefs, drawing a distinction between those and the beliefs of others. To me that indicated he felt there was some social risk in being too truthful, but the fact is, no matter how Christianity gets into the brain - or any other belief system, it's still a process of conditioned reflexes. Personally I accept a certain amount of Christian cultural values, as it's part of the heritage my European people acquired and reshaped for their own needs, but I would resist anyone's efforts to aggressively condition me into any sect. The word brainwashing, therefore, isn't really the appropriate one when explaining what most mainstream Christians do. On the other hand, if a cult leader uses a book like this, which some do for subjecting followers to unusual stresses intended to convert them, the result is spiritually inferior to even the most naive Christian sect, as it's not a natural product of ethnic development. I make the distinction here, as Sargant apparently didn't want to risk religious or political controversy, that forced conditioning is ignorant and deserves the negative connotation of Brainwashing. Embarking on a more gentle and gradual evolution within your native culture's myths is generally safer and more emotionally beneficial. People of European descent who have abandoned the cultural protection of Western tradition, often fall prey to Eastern traditions which employ rude and dangerous brainwashing techniques. The irony is that such victims become unqualified to correctly assess the value of an alien belief system. They become mere contributors to what is rude and barbaric in the society they betrayed. Had they remained in the Western tradition their people created, and assimilated the ideas of outsiders naturally - using the brake of an inherited wisdom - they would not have become cult victims. Our culture is constantly changing, and a grasp of this subject will help seekers to retain their personal dignity. Sargant's charming lack of candor is the only part of this book that's gone out of date.	2000-10-04
US	52066663	R2EH6HYM6MSSZH	0761520147	152588708	Homeschooling Almanac, 2000-2001: How to Start, What to Do, Who to Call, Resources, Products, Teaching Supplies, Support Groups, Conferences, and More! (Prima Home Learning Library)	Books	5	13	25	N	N	You Don't Have To Lose Your Kids To The Gang At School.	This is an almanac rather than the kind of book read straight through. Now  that falling educational standards, crime, and political subversion are  putting your children at risk, here's a book to introduce the general idea  of home-schooling as a viable option. There are also support organizations  listed in case you seek more extensive consultation, and their numbers  testify to something revolutionary being afoot in education. Also included  are color photos of the many imaginative products that you or your  designated teacher might find appropriate, and each is organized under the  subject being taught. I live in California, where I already give free  consultations on how to build the alternative communities known as Little  Europes, so I used this almanac to look up the specific legal restrictions  my state has on the home schooling aspect. I discovered this widely  respected alternative is actually legal, and that no one has to come into  conflict with the authorities as long as they or their designated teacher  is accredited. The Lepperts were motivated by their own traditional values  to create this book, so readers can be confident someone examined the  products personally, recommending only what was free of the left wing  political agenda now turning our public schools into microcosms of the  troubled third world.	2000-09-04
US	52066663	R2FNO045FKZ8IU	1855382954	438251841	Dictionary For Dreamers (Language of the Unconscious, Vol 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This Dreambook Actually Uses Psychoanalytic Methods.	I am usually quite skeptical when a writer offers a way to unravel the  meaning of a dream. What makes this author's approach different is he shuns  the obvious superstitions and blends the theories of Freud, Jung, Adler,  Stekel, Gutheil, and many others. Why no one thought of this before is a  mystery to me, but I do notice this book comes from England, a nation known  for taking fuzzy European ideas and transforming them into the sobriety of  science. Chetwynd explains each aspect of a dream with a simple definition;  but there is still enough information given to convince us that his source  was a clinical theory rather than some fortune teller's unchallenged guess.  The sources are useful in case we need to sort out the matter in more  elaborate detail than was the goal of this quick reference guide. I greatly  appreciate that compromise, because even with the insights possible this  subject is going to remain speculative. As I haven't had much faith or  contact with psychiatrists, sociologists, or their books, this is better  than nothing. Additionally, this little book has an especially appealing  shape and size. That encourages the reader to keep it at bedside - or take  it along to work when some particularly intriguing dream lingers from the  night. This practice appeals to the artistic potential within all of us,  especially those who open their minds to the possibility that dreams and  reality are connected.	2000-08-22
US	52066663	R1HZ71C0J7WMLW	0878423737	597986013	Rocks from Space: Meteorites and Meteorite Hunters (Astronomy)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Why Not Find The Time To Look For Meteorites?	Here's the book you'll need to take along, as meteorites are much easier to find when you know their characteristics and the places where they stand  out from other rocks. I've held onto my own copy of Rocks From Space for  some time, although I have not gone out hunting for meteorites yet, because  this is the book that entices me to make time for it. There are a lot of  good quality photographs printed here on slick magazine paper, and some are  in color. The book is what it's supposed to be, but if I was going to  improve it for someone planning to pack it for a hike across the Utah salt  flats, I would suggest that the next edition be on a lighter weight paper.  This guide fills you in on the famous meteors (In the sky) and meteorites  (Striking the earth) which fell in earth's recorded history. These are  great fun to learn about, as there's nothing like a surprise from outer  space to brighten up everyone's day. And while meteorites can even impress  us as being pretty weird in the modern era, wait until you read about the  one that fell in Alsace, France in 1492. It drew so much curiosity and awe  that even King Maximilian of Germany came to see it. Many people took  souvenir pieces from it over the centuries, but its last 122 pounds are  protected by being in a local museum. Another fall Norton records came in  1992, when a car belonging to a young lady was struck. Excited collectors  soon made generous offers for both the car and the meteorite. Not too long  ago an old meteorite from Mars was sliced open to reveal what many  scientists suspect is evidence of past life on that planet. The possibility  was considered strong enough that it prompted President Clinton to go on  national television to announce it; so if you use this book, you may even  help confirm one of the greatest mysteries of all time.	2000-08-05
US	52066663	R36A4W7ISPMUX8	0684829479	992008202	The Origins of The Second World War	Books	5	59	69	N	N	One Of The Leading Books For Understanding the Causes of WW 2.	A.J. P. Taylor generated a lot of controversy with what he recorded here about the causes leading up to the outbreak of war in Europe in 1939, and it's not because of some weakness in his personal conclusions. If you read  it for yourself, you'll learn so much that you actually won't be dependent  on anyone else's conclusions. The book is now a familiar topic to all World  War Two historians, but it amazed them all the more because Taylor is  considered by many to rank among the finest historians the Western World  ever produced.  He points out that what most people have learned about the  outbreak of WW2 isn't actually in serious error, but it skips over all the  embarrassing controversies and gray areas. Those deficiencies leave  politicians with very few insights about how they could avert future  tragedies. It's also a dangerously simplistic view planted in the minds of  millions by the power of modern media, but there's actually no one person,  government, regime, or creed, that can be blamed for the ignorance, as much  as we would like to believe that only the good guys (or bad guys) who rule  dished the perspective out to us... Misconceptions about WW2 era need to be grappled with honestly,  and this particular book is a good start...Modern sociologists and religious people are moving away  from a blanket condemnation of any individual or nation, especially those  which are no longer in existence, and the insights offered by Taylor apply  intelligence and sensitivity to the history of our last century. It is  among the finest literary contributions offered for a more peaceful world.	2000-08-02
US	52066663	R2TEIUQ2TNVX15	1566911966	979437811	Moon Handbooks Silicon Valley: Including San Jose, Sunnyvale, Palo Alto, and South Valley	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Now Silicon Valley Has A Guide As Amazing As Itself.	My eyes were drawn to the unusually attractive cover of this book, for it has a perfect color photograph of the world famous Winchester Mystery House, a mansion with hundreds of rooms. That was built by the heir to the  Winchester gun fortune, Sarah Winchester. By legend, a fortune teller told  her to keep the building process going as a way to atone for all the  Indians killed by Winchester firearms, and that as long as she did that she  wouldn't die. In the past I couldn't suggest much more to Silicon Valley  visitors than a visit to the Winchester Mystery House, or perhaps the  Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum, which houses the largest collection of  Egyptian artifacts west of the Mississippi.  I simply thought of the San  Jose area as being mostly a cultureless wasteland in suburbia, but things  have certainly changed there. I was raised in the Bay Area, and over the  years the occasional errand takes me through, but I had no idea that there  were so many interesting things to see there. In part this is attributable  to the accelerated urban development brought on by the computer industry,  and in part it's because I didn't bother to monitor progress in the greater  San Jose area, but that's also because no one had previously published a  guide book filled with so much of its local history.  Now that I have  Martin Cheek's book, I look forward to my next visit for any reason.  There's an article called William Shockley - Brilliant Weirdo (The author  was de-emphasizing his subject's unpopular opinions about race) on page 19,  and it explains how Shockley won the Nobel prize for being the co-inventor  of the transistor, the cornerstone of the high tech industry. Speaking of  controversial people, another interesting person is mentioned in an article  on page 191: &quot;The Holy City Of Hilltop Hustler &quot;Father  Riker.&quot; Denounced as an eccentric cult leader by some, Riker is also  fondly remembered as the most colorful character in the history of San  Carlos.From 1918 until about 1941 his Utopian community was active on a  mountainous summit to the west of the downtown area. Riker's large signs  advertised the greatness of the white race, and his original commercial  buildings provided a great variety of roadside attractions for those  traveling between San Jose and the seaside community of Santa Cruz. The old  highway still cuts through the mountains, but Riker's businesses greatly  declined when his stop was bypassed by a much more modern and faster  highway. All that remains of Holy City today are a few private buildings:  Riker's house, garage, a storage shed, and the timeless background of  beautiful hills that his visitors liked to use as the background for their  photos. Across the street from Riker's house, where the commercial  buildings once stood, the owner of a modern glass shop (Which uses the name  Holy City Glass Shop) keeps original copies of Riker's old newspapers  posted up on his bulletin board. After getting introduced to that site  through Mr. Cheek's book, I found out that there was a book in print by  Betty Lewis titled Holy City - Riker's Roadside Attraction. I'll let you  know how good that is after Amazon sends it.	2000-07-30
US	52066663	R11E5Y25Q675R6	0874777461	431789788	Creating Community Anywhere: Finding Support and Connection in a Fragmented World	Books	5	27	55	N	N	Use This Book To Build the World You Want.	There may be better handbooks for explaining to people how they can build a community, but this is at least the best one I've personally come across. Yes, it has a liberal orientation, but that does not take away its value  for more conservative types like myself. Consider the subtitle for a  moment: &quot;Finding Support And Connection In A Fragmented World.&quot;  Today's more technological society is seriously fragmented, so I decided to  look into what Shaffer and Anundsen were saying, in chapters such as  Electronic Communities, Visionary Residential Communities, and Turning  Neighborhoods And Cities Into Communities. I found them constantly touching  issues which only previously floated around in my mind. The best part,  however, is that they offer the core solution to what I have always wanted.  Too many Americans of European descent, for example, are uninformed about  why their culture is eroding toward disaster, but it is due to a variety of  ethnic and cultural problems, with the main crisis being the lack of  community in a faster world. I decided to style my own ideal community as a  &quot;Little Europe,&quot; and although this is only an opening vision,  remember that &quot;In the beginning was the word.&quot; Every great task  requires a conducive environment to work in without interference, and this  is what we would have if we established a network of organizations;  cultural, fraternal, and legal volunteer organizations inspired by our own  basic values. And it's in these places, in Little Europes all across the  nation, that a new faith and ethical resistance could take root. Great  social changes continue to come, and everyone has some opinion about what  we are in for, but whether these challenges become advantages or  liabilities to people depends on they do now on a local level. Those who  see the value of this can inspire others to become positive, aggressive,  and active participants as well. Mainstream Americans won't assert their  natural rights until they are at least conscious of being a distinct  people. We need environments which naturally transform disinterested  members of the public into countless trained political leaders, those who  are motivated to advance the interests of our communities. Eventually we  could develop nonwhite allies and self determination arrangements for them,  but for now the task begins exclusively with our own more desperate  condition. Those of you with the proper skills might build a Little Europe  in your own town. This could begin with a web page explaining a need for a  cultural center (which will become more elaborate as the resources are  available) and call upon others in your community to assist in building it  up in one particular area. The hippies built political communities in the  sixties, homosexuals built them in the 70s, and even ethnic minority groups  have had them since the 80s; so there is no reason we can't have a place to  assert our own interests. When choosing your local geographical footing,  take into consideration any resources which can contribute to the longevity  of your plans; for example, there may be other ethnic cultural  organizations to draw people near your organization, be it a book shop,  souvenir manufacturing business, movie theater, or fraternal organization.  The stages can roughly be this: Web page, casual socializing, formal  meetings in rented space, and then property ownership. Cultural oriented  businesses and fraternal organizations in close proximity become the new  Little Europe. Keep in mind that our youth need the skills you offer, for a  very demanding future could eventually be in their hands. Include the  retired and elderly, for an ignorant and disrespectful society is leaving  them behind. Let them be offered a role of usefulness and respect in our  new community. And look for opportunities to engage the contributions of  women on a wide front free of domestic definition; but they are more  commonly being deniedtheir inclination to be within that definition. When  you read something inspiring about those who won their freedom in the past,  especially European peoples, use it to raise the ethnic consciousness of  our people here in America. And when you watch some entertainment like  Riverdance, listen a little more carefully than other people do, for the  inspiration in such rhythms is more powerful than a locomotive, and its  time has come!Buy this book, get busy, and good luck!	2000-07-26
US	52066663	R2RCQJOEB516MQ	1570980756	378582857	Michael Collins : The Man Who Made Ireland	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Now You Can Meet the Real Michael Collins!	This book has almost got it all. My first edition has a stunning brown and white photo on the cover showing Collins in his Free State uniform, and even the unusual weight and dimensions of the book suggests the emotionally  moving experience within. This is a complete biography which begins with  Collins' childhood, and it follows him all the way to where he is  ruthlessly assassinated in Cork by political opponents. They were mostly  liberals and communists who were not supported by the people when they  advocated another more radical revolution. There's an especially generous  collection of photographs to enhance the text here as well. Until this book  was published, there just wasn't a complete or accurate biography on  Collins available anywhere, though he is certainly one of the most  interesting people in Irish history. This injustice was eventually  corrected when the Irish book industry revitalized after many years of  repression from Irish politicians such as Eamon de Valera. Such opponents  knew their own deeds were shallow in comparison to those of Collins and his  supporters. They preferred the public not to read the inside story of how  they abandoned Collins when he negotiated the treaty with the British  government that formed today's Irish Republic, and they are widely  suspected of contributing to his assassination in Cork (de Valera was in  the immediate area). Then came this landmark book in 1992 by Coogan,  followed by the 1996 film by Neil Jordan, and Irish-Americans suddenly  realized what they had been cheated of. In one of the supreme ironies of  history, however, Collins is occasionally hijacked by the Marxists of Sinn  Fein when they shake down the Irish in America. They claim that they have  the moral authority to finish what Collins could not. Unfortunately, from  so far away, some Irish Americans have difficulty discerning the difference  between Collins' ideas about uniting the Irish - by developing trust  between the Irish Nationalistcommunity and the Irish of British descent  community - and his opponents ideas which advocate class warfare and fuel  sectarian tensions. There's an unrelated television commercial in the US  which could provide a good one liner to fit this unlikely situation  perfectly: &quot;How is that possible?&quot; Yes, it can be verified that  the Collins people greatly appreciated the contribution that James Connolly  made to military tactics, but they are also on record as being Ireland's  most popular opposition to the Marxism that Connolly and others advocated.  Collins and those close to him believed firmly in a free enterprise system  shaped by a more traditional and gentle Irish socialism. In Ireland the  average political enthusiast knows who's who. This is the reason there is  no mention of Gerry Adams when Coogan finishes with his chapter  &quot;Honoring the Dead?&quot; During the Irish Civil War Collins' people  risked their lives to stop left wing subversion. In today's Irish Republic  the party which Collins' supporters formed after his death lives on; that's  Fine Gael, and its opposition to Marxism is still very much alive. For  anyone who is still confused or doubtful, one of the following books can  fill you in on the aggressively anti-Communist nature of the Collins camp:  First there's The Blueshirts and Irish Politics by Michael Cronin, printed  in Dublin, Ireland by Four Courts Press 1997; then there's an older but  better book, The Blueshirts by Maurice Manning which was printed in Dublin,  Ireland by Gill and Macmillan in 1970; and even Yeats, Ireland and Fascism  by Elizabeth Cullingford which was published in New York, New York by N.Y.  University Press in1981	2000-06-11
US	52066663	R2XDZQ7YKUCXOY	089997192X	944426284	Streets of San Francisco: The Origins of Street and Place Names	Books	3	12	15	N	N	The Quickest Introduction To San Francisco History.	One of the reasons I like this book is that the author mentions me on his acknowledgments page; a generous trade off for some quick research on Mormon history. But the reason you may like to get a copy of the Streets of  San Francisco is that it will enable you to look up the story behind many  of our street sign names. This kind of information won't get you to your  destination any quicker the first time, but it might the second time you  come around, because establishing reference points is the best way to  remember anything. This book is put together like a dictionary and provides  about six sentences on each street. Nowadays few of us, especially  tourists, really have a chance to read history books on the run, but you  can get a basic idea of what San Francisco's past is all about by just  quickly looking up the names you encounter. What you figure out will  transfer over to other things very quickly. If I was going to try improve  this book, I would do so by listing people who should have gotten a street  named after them, people whose names adorn other places, such as Moscone  Center being named for the assassinated mayor, or Hallidie Plaza being  named for the developer of our world famous street car system. Yes, that  would probably mean changing the title to the Streets and Public names of  San Francisco, but that works for me. And perhaps fewer people would  confuse the book's present title with the old Streets of San Francisco  television show, as I have seen happen a few times. Another limitation is  that this book does not have enough names, so the more serious historians  among us simply use this in conjunction with other books on local  historical sites; such as the unsurpassed and encyclopedic San Francisco  Almanac by Gladys Hansen. Anyway, nearly every book store in San Francisco  does sell the Streets of San Francisco, and some like to display its  especially nice cover right next to the check-out counter.	2000-06-10
US	52066663	R19FLA8K1J5KAG	0517605236	274692705	Handbook of Unusual Natural Phenomena	Books	5	26	27	N	N	This Is My Favorite Book On Nature's Mysteries.	When I first noticed this Handbook Of Unusual Natural Phenomena, it was laying on a book shop's discount table. And I didn't realize that it was about to become one of my most precious possessions. I refer to this book  whenever I see any of nature's best sky shows. The cover of my 1977  edition, on a hardback I have carefully covered with plastic, shows a hand  upraised in the dark. There are two types of lightening in the sky, and the  Aurora Borealis, then a miniature rainbow emanates from each of the fingers  spread out. Inside the book are hundreds of other drawings, accompanied by  clearly written text, to define and discuss many kinds of unusual  occurrences. At first you should just casually go through this book,  getting a sense of all the things cataloged, because it will prepare you  for noticing far more than what most people realize is happening over their  heads. This is not a book about unidentified flying objects, unless comets  with halos will do, but it can be just as exciting to identify natural  mysteries. When you see rainbows, for example, you will be able to discern  what's common or rare. Some rainbows are doubled, some join clouds  together, some connect with objects, some only seem to connect to objects.  Different categories for sunsets are also defined. I once kept a written  log of the sunsets I saw, describing each day's display for a month.  Although most of them were simply pleasant to watch, and not really that  weird, on one occasion the round shape of the sun became a near perfect  square! As I saw this from an area in San Francisco called the Sunset  District, a local newspaper editor appreciated and published the sighting.  In that article I credited this book, and later received a nice letter from  Mr. Corliss. The square shaped sunset, which appeared on a Valentine's Day,  generated so much interest that I wished I had brought along a camera. Then  there was another notable natural event, one which occurred while I was  visiting a friends house. I stood on his back porch after the sun had set,  and noticed two peculiar lines which seemed to be dividing the sky into  three parts. These stretched like telegraph lines all across the sky, just  as if the Egyptian sky goddess, Nut, was responsible. I wiped my glasses  and looked away, but each time the lines appeared. Finally I asked my host  to come out, without any descriptive hints, to tell me what he saw up there  (Just in case I was the nut). The sighting was soon confirmed, as he also  saw the lines, and he ran in to alert his wife. When I got home I opened up  this book and read the paragraphs which applied to this particular  phenomena, where lines divide the sky. I was even more surprised that  Corliss listed it as a highly rare occurrence. This may be because the  lines are rather thin, and easy to miss. I kind of tingled all over,  because I knew I was fortunate enough to experience something that few  people even knew existed. Each person who gets this book is going to use it  a bit differently; appreciating it mostly for whatever they can apply it to  personally. A Japanese lady I know looked through my copy and soon joyously  shouted out: &quot;I've got a photograph of that!&quot; She had been  vacationing in Hawaii, and taking special notice of a rainbow which was  doubled, managed to get a perfect photo. I received this as a gift, and it  sits in my book alongside a photograph I shot of some rare clouds (This  handbook has one similar to mine and defines it as a &quot;Morning  Glory&quot;). Photos became the only place markers I use for this  particular book. Although Corliss didn't mention it, a natural phenomenon  is associated with Bolinas, California, just north of the Golden Gate  Bridge. One day a man was sitting in his car reading a sports page, he was  parked on a cliff overlooking the ocean outside Bolinas (Where Alfred  Hitchcock's The Birds was filmed). After a while he peered out over the  ocean and realized he waslooking at the illusion of an island. It was  sitting just a short distance offshore. This island even had castles with  turrets and walls, and a jeweled sparkle almost like an advertisement for  Disneyland. The man got out of his car and shouted down to a park ranger  and a tourist. They too acknowledged that they could see it. At the Bolinas  Post Office the postmistress told a reporter she had seen it on a previous  occasion. None of the witnesses, nor the reporter, had seen Corliss' book;  so the story was published without anyone knowing that the scientific name  is Marine Morgana. Good luck, and good hunting.	2000-05-28
US	52066663	R3V72IJ6DEECZB	0712665900	342087812	The burning of Bridget Cleary	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Is The Definitive Work On The Case.	I took up my own interest in this case while researching the Theodore Durrant murders of San Francisco. The dates of the Durrant and Cleary cases overlap, and sometimes Durrant researchers will mention it. Additionally, I  attended school at Rockwell College in County Tipperary, so the location  also peaked my interest. Ms. Bourke does a very nice job of telling and  documenting this story. Her latter accomplishment is especially appreciated  by other writers like myself who often want to compare the characteristics  of separate cases. I think what the reader will get most out of this one is  an insight into how powerful folk magic beliefs have been in Ireland. Even  when I was in Ireland in 1963, at the age of fifteen, I noticed it was  quite common for people to believe in the fairies. In fact, most of my  relatives and their neighbors spent far more time talking about the fairies  than Jesus, Mary, or Joseph. I had been raised in San Francisco, where my  own familiarity with the subject only came from seeing the Walt Disney  movie Darby O'Gill and the Little people (Incredibly good by the way), but  what villagers told me about the fairies didn't seem so unbelievable at  all. When people gather together in any kind of isolation, they tend to  generate and support beliefs which would seem preposterous to outsiders,  and those of you who have never experienced anything like that will find  this book worth reading. I also like the way it's put together. The colors  and artwork used for the cover hint of the serious research within. And  there are enough maps and photographs here as well; so if I was vacationing  in Ireland I would certainly be tempted to see where this all happened.	2000-05-24
US	52066663	R8O0HLHHHJN11	0380002477	250890868	Nightfall at Nauvoo	Books	5	34	36	N	N	One Of the Most Important Stories In American History.	I remember picking up a paperback copy of this book years ago simply because it had a chilling picture of some covered wagons leaving a town during a snow bound winter, and the title added to the ominous impression.  My thought was &quot;Why would anyone travel in those conditions?&quot; I  was soon to find out. This book was first published as a hardback by  Macmillan Company of New York, New York in 1971, and it drew me into one of  the most exciting, colorful, and extraordinary true stories that was ever  recorded about the wild West during the 1840s. It's a good thing no one had  told me that this was about the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day  Saints, popularly known as the Mormons, because had I known that I would  have thought &quot;Oh, Oh, religion,&quot; and not given it any further  investigation. I came from a Catholic background, and I didn't really think  about it until later, but the Mormon church was the other important  organization responsible for settling the West. Once a person has this  insight, they won't be surprised when encountering entire shelf loads of  books about Mormons in bookstores run by folks who actually know something  about Western Americana. What you have in this book is the story of a town  built by the Mormons in Illinois, and how controversies arose there which  resulted in the death of Joseph Smith, the founder of the church. Now I'm  not going to spoil it for you by filling in too much, but after Joseph  Smith was killed at Carthage, just outside Nauvoo, his church split into a  number of competitive factions. The largest of these, the Church of Jesus  Christ of Latter Day Saints, is based in Salt Lake City, Utah. The second  largest one, the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints,  is headquartered in Independence, Missouri. There were other factions which  came out of the incidents in this story as well, but the largest are  usually the most familiar. This story will introduce you to the  controversies that go on to this day between many Mormon sects - and also  between Mormons and the outside world. It will give you an understanding of  why there are so many people hooked on collecting anything they can about  Mormon splinter groups, or anything published by those sects. In fact, the  culture of Mormon politics is exciting enough to quench the thirst of  anyone already hooked on political ideology or more familiar forms of  religious theology. Imagine a true story which is partly a nerve wracking  wild West shoot out, and blend that with the scattering seeds of a peculiar  religion, and you've got some idea of the riveting read you're in for.  Nightfall At Nauvoo is the reason I'll usually stop to examine any book  about LDS (Mormonism), and it's also the reason I nearly always find the  time to say hello to their missionaries. It is a great story by a great  writer, on the same level of importance as Jim Bishop's The Day Lincoln Was  Shot; Bernal Diaz's Conquest of New Spain - about Cortes bringing down the  Aztec empire; and William Connelley's perfect telling of Quantrills  destruction of Lawrence Kansas. Some readers may even appreciate that it  has similar elements.that go on to this day between many Mormon sects - and also  between Mormons and the outside world. It will give you an understanding of  why there are so many people hooked on collecting anything they can about  Mormon splinter groups, or anything published by those sects. In fact, the  culture of Mormon politics is exciting enough to quench the thirst of  anyone already hooked on political ideology or more familiar forms of  religious theology. Imagine a true story which is partly a nerve wracking  wild West shoot out, and blend that with the scattering seeds of a peculiar  religion, and you've got some idea of the riveting read you're in for.  Nightfall At Nauvoo is the reason I'll usually stop to examine any book  about LDS (Mormonism), and it's also the reason I nearly always find the  time to say hello to their missionaries. It is a great story by a great  writer, on the same level of importance as Jim Bishop's The Day Lincoln Was  Shot; Bernal Diaz's Conquest of New Spain - about Cortes bringing down the  Aztec empire; and William Connelley's perfect telling of Quantrills  destruction of Lawrence Kansas. Some readers may even appreciate that it  has similar elements.	2000-05-06
US	52066663	R1KA2A18PAF6KV	1879373955	675564190	Free Ireland: Towards a Lasting Peace	Books	1	10	35	N	N	Gerry Adams' War For the Mind of Irish America.	Political science professionals who need to acquaint themselves with Gerry Adams' proposals for Ireland should purchase this book, but unfortunately many less prepared Irish Americans are going to be taken in by this revolutionary's tactic of substituting the word socialism whenever he knows  they wouldn't otherwise support the Marxist ideology (Communism) he  fanatically believes in.     Take a close look at his chapter seven,  \\"Republicanism and Socialism,\\" and notice how he wants to be  associated with the \\"socialists\\" that he thinks have some  support, such as South Africa's ANC, but he doesn't want to be associated  with the Marxists he knows are now unpopular, such as the Red Brigade or  Baader-Meinhoff. Yes, it's true, there have been all types of Marxists, but  the difficulty for him is this: Most Irish Americans are not willing to  support any kind of Marxism, even though these same Irish Americans are  providing the Sinn Fein / IRA with most of its funding. Ireland's  nationalist and loyalist communities have suffered too long, especially the  children and the elderly, because of such propaganda tricks.      Another device Adams employs is this: He writes \\"Get the British out of  Ireland.\\" But he is shamefully deceiving his Irish American supporters, never pointing out that Ireland's second largest ethnic group  (a group represented on the Republican Tricolor flag), proudly defines itself as an Irish variant of British. So when Americans are drawn into assisting what looks like a just campaign to \\"Get the British  Out,\\" they are in reality turned into Don Quixotes, attacking the windmill without progress for decades.     But this tactic allows Sinn Fein to collect money from Irish Americans, which they use to promote class warfare against the Irish of British descent. That assault is also why the British Irish say \\"keep your clever flag,\\" as it's only truthful when it's turned to show the green on top.     As the loyalists actually have the largest workingclass community in the six counties, and they are Ireland's second largest ethnic group. The class warfare only fuels a cycle of sectarian violence that unifies the Irish and  British in tragedy.     That does not really bother a hardened revolutionary  like Adams, and outside of Ireland his allies target other people of  European descent (including Irish Americans) for all the bad luck nonwhites  have ever had. You should notice that Irish Americans never knowingly work  against their own interests in America, because on their own turf they  quickly recognize that Marxists are racist against whites.     But Irish  Americans rarely stand up so well to the Marxists who visit from the Old  Sod to collect money for the very ideology that undermines them. No, those  Marxists wear a pretty convincing mask of loyalty to the Irish peoples. And  the right accent allows them to convince many Irish Americans that, as  natives, they know what's best. Not all Irish Americans can be fooled, though, and America's best negotiators are in Ireland to seize the  initiative.     Most of the Irish in Ireland do not support Sinn Fein or the  IRA, because it's harder to fool the Irish in Ireland. They know it's not  in their interests to turn their own country into a racist shooting  gallery, and the arrival of the European Economic Community meant that Ireland's two great ethnic communities couldn't participate in the  prosperity - resolving issues of social justice within the free enterprise  system - until the Marxists gave their obsolete game up.     This book could use an update as well, so that Irish Americans could be informed about what Adams is doing since his ethnic cleansing campaign in Northern Ireland: Now he's welcoming as many non-White immigrants into Ireland as possible. This man has moved from the gun to the poison bottle.	2000-05-03
US	52066663	R4A4AELP1JFC6	0385498411	475246433	Woman: An Intimate Geography	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A really Engaging and Friendly Book About Women.	Ignore all those mean spirited books which explain women as being totally separate from the rest of humanity and buy this book. What we're all too often used to encountering about women is either written by men, who haven't really been there, or by lesbians and other outsiders with little  faith and no interest in men. I wasn't intending to explore the mysteries  of the opposite sex, but after reading bits and pieces of &quot;Woman - An  Intimate Geography&quot; in a store, I was absolutely beguiled and brought  it home. As a man, the appeal of this book is the gentle and respectful way  Natalie Angier educates me about her world: It is a place that's both sexy  and intelligent, and it offers an adventure in perspective that is  frequently quite a departure from my own. Yes, it's possible to learn a lot  about women by simply being in close proximity to them, but a generous  amount of clearly written explanations accelerates the appreciation. Ms.  Angier's book has a friendly and clear headed attitude which suggests to me  that she is used to drawing others to herself and winning their respect.  Over the years I've confirmed at least for myself, by taking the time to  inquire, that many women who possess a special rapport among men were  fortunate enough to grow up in families where they had a healthy  interaction with brothers. Whether or not the author had brothers, her  ability to reach both sexes is unsurpassed in this genre, and she has  advanced the cause of women.	2000-04-25
US	52066663	R127J0M375OQFG	156025100X	260150670	Blood in the Face: The Ku Klux Klan, Aryan Nations, Nazi Skinheads, and the Rise of a New White Culture	Books	3	19	28	N	N	Expect No More Than A Basic Introducton	I bought this because there really are very few books on the subject at all, and even this one is only going to give you a general introduction to the matter. What I have learned so far is this: When voters fail to provide  places for young people to participate in sports and dancing, they  shouldn't be surprised when those same kids - their kids - wander the  streets and get into trouble. On the same wavelength, when it becomes  routine in the media to criticize only whites for social ills, and to  dismiss the value of an ethnic heritage for young whites in forming a  positive image of themselves (As it does for the minorities allowed to form  a strong self-image that way), it shouldn't surprise parents and nonwhites  that more and more white youths are taking an interest in the most  notorious and forbidden white leaders of all time. These kids reason that  they want the opposite of the powerlessness that comes from accepting a  conforming silence about race. They see how it saddles their more easily  frightened parents and are determined to throw it off. And young people are  often quick to express their resistance when a conformity seems so  obviously unfair. Just as the gang mentality grows among blacks and  hispanics, expect it to grow among whites. Yes, the kids will be sorry  later, as David Duke certainly was when he went into mainstream politics,  but society is also suffering because these kids went searching for their  ethnic heritage and found no one to learn it from except someone  representing their parents' worst nightmare.	2000-04-22
US	52066663	R33KTTLNT4RYUE	0916583759	181897478	Rules of the Game; Beyond the Pale: Memoirs of Sir Oswald Mosley and Family	Books	5	18	28	N	N	Here Is a Treasury of Information On Sir Oswald Mosley.	Here is a book that will please anyone looking for an extraordinary biography. I would also advise you to buy this book before it goes out of print. Nearly anything ever written about Mosley eventually gets sold out  because there is usually a lot more interest in him than publishers  forecast. <br />Many Americans know that Mosley was the most prominent British  fascist leader prior to the Second World War, but few know that prior to  that he was the member of parliament who was given the task of constructing  an economic plan capable of getting Britain out of the Great Depression.  <br />Although many leading socialists of the day supported his ideas,  including his personal friend in America, Franklin Roosevelt, the British  government was not bold enough to act, adopting the attitude of just  muddling through. <br />That's why Mosley started up his fascist movement. The  death of Mosley's first wife contributed to his determination to implement  his ideas, and the private correspondence published in this book explains  why for the first time. <br />After World War 2, Mosley's view was that the  nationalisms of Europe were obsolete, and that the European economic  cooperation of the EEC was the first wave of a better future. He also  forecasted that within the United States the European population would find  a similar reorganizing just as necessary.	2000-04-05
US	52066663	R1EJQJ6OHRFOOE	0812907582	816949964	A Life of Contrasts: The Autobiography of Diana Mitford Mosley	Books	5	15	33	N	N	Diana Mosley and the Other Side of World War 2	To give you an idea of how politically persuasive this book is, I loaned it to a gentleman who served as a ground mechanic for the RAF throughout the Battle of Britain, a long time admirer of Winston Churchill. After he  had carefully read every page he said: &quot;It's a good read. There's just  one question I have, though: How could the British government have put a  lady like that in prison during the war, and with her baby?&quot;  The man  who said this was my father. And I replied: &quot;Dad, the British  government passed something called 18B at the outbreak of war. It gave them  the power to put anyone in jail that opposed the war, even someone with as  much integrity, class, and beauty as the extraordinary Diana Mosley.&quot;  Read the book yourself, it is about the other side of World War 2, but it  also speaks of how nationalism is obsolete and gives a very good argument  for believing that Europeanism is the wave of the future.	2000-04-02
US	52066663	RVAR4FIXPKM1T	0140047484	901665062	Thus Spoke Zarathustra: A Book for None and All	Books	5	2	5	N	N	How This Book Is Relevant Today.	Late one night after I had read the last page of Nietzsche's Zarathustra, and before rereading the first page, I fell asleep and dreamt a dream of all that logically went between: When Zarathustra was over one hundred and  ten years old, and it was the appropriate time, he died in an out of the  way place called Bethsaida (The New Testament place where Jesus' preaching  was ignored).The sun did not rise and the rooster did not crow, prompting  his frightened neighbors to summon a doctor and an exorcist - this being  customary in such circumstances.Although an examination revealed some  peculiar marks visible on Zarathustra's head, neck, chest, and ankles,  these were dismissed as some type of permanent political stigmata; thus the  death certificate was signed.Word of strange events then spread quickly  throughout the town, and to soothe the worry of more naive minds the  ecclesiastical authorities decided to place Zarathustra in mock trial.  Propped up in a chair and held fast by ropes, the old man offered no  resistance to the arrangement. A Catholic volunteered as prosecutor, a  Protestant as judge, townspeople of varying descriptions acted as jury, and  a popular baker represented the accused. &quot;Here is the demon who even  now manages to provoke our anguish with his legacy of atheistic  malevolence. Let him be found guilty, then forgotten forever in the  unhallowed ground&quot; railed the prosecutor. As for the baker, being a  simple man outside the established ways of theological and legal argument,  his only recourse was to draw upon his own experience while speaking for  the accused: &quot;It may be a difficult leap to make, fellow citizens, but  even here is the image of one deserving your love. Zarathustra's intention  was not to destroy you or even to take anything away from you - it was to  make you stronger! It is better to liken even his most merciless prods to  the yeast which causes bread to rise to its full height.&quot;&quot;That's  quite irreverent, though it may be material,&quot; countered the  prosecutor; &quot;for in my church, before the sacrament of Eucharist is  distributed, we draw on stocks of unleavened bread.&quot; Certainly, this  was a promising point, but as it was now long past the time desirable for  everyone's noontide meal, and the baker had the means to relieve their  greatest emptiness, he decided to provide a tasty riposte: &quot;In all  appreciation of that exception, as it is I who provides all the bread in  this district - including what the churches distribute to the poor - it  should be pointed out that the supply of flour available for my helpers to  gather has been diminishing, and only the prudent use of yeast can insure  enough to feed everyone&quot; Needless to say, the verdict eventually came  in that everyone involved was ravenously hungry, which did much to expedite  a decision on Zarathustra: And that is how he came to be buried, in sort of  a compromise, beneath an unhallowed path immediately outside the narrow  gate of the cemetery. Yet, not long after, three scruffy looking  grave-robbers arrived to fetch him from where he was content to lay; a  Marxist, an anarchist, and a gaunt faced national socialist. And while  these three engaged in an acrimonious debate about who was Zarathustra's  nearest relative, they dug up his material body and carried it away. Yes,  stiffened arms jutting over supporting shoulders, and ramrod legs held in  trembling hands, they stumbled away like drunken sailors returning to the  safety of some familiar ship.What little reason remained soon gave way to  emotions, as the three were so overwhelmed by their old master's  predicament that they were incapable of recognizing his true condition.  &quot;Zarathustra wants to come with me&quot; blubbered the Marxist.  &quot;His persistent posture indicates he is only battered and still  unbowed.&quot; To this the gaunt faced national socialist replied, while  bearing the burden on the other side, &quot;Your brain is out of  dialectical order, halt-foot! The fox feigns his injury, and your only  reward will be a bite of my old values.&quot; Then holding up the feet and  walking backwards, the anarchist insisted - as usual- in getting in the  last word: &quot;Far from having any immediate ambitions, it's obvious my  uncooperative brother is determined to impede you.&quot;Soon, all that was  left at the open grave was a discarded shovel, the only lantern the three  had brought to know the way, and the odd flickering shadow of Zarathustra's  spirit. This ghost sat on a big stone nearby, closer than any of them had  dared to hope, and it waited until the declamation of the last follower  died out in the wintery night air: &quot;O restless dark day! You herald  the approach of a new dawn!&quot; Said Zarathustra's spirit. Then finding a  more definitive aphorism rising in his throat, he summoned his animals to  draw near; for wise enough to keep a respectable distance from the fray,  they had only waited to hear. And although at first they didn't recognize  Zarathustra's now child like countenance - which usually moved much slower,  the bad poetry reassured them: &quot;Lost and marooned are they who nourish  themselves solely on what cannot be properly digested.&quot; Then speaking  of higher men: &quot;But truly blessed is the special one who miraculously  increases what the helpers gather to give.&quot; Thus it was spoken, as in  a dream.	2000-04-02
US	52066663	R1T3JWWAHZE8LF	0394421795	249792400	The Decline of the West, Vol. 1: Form and Actuality	Books	4	8	27	N	N	Technics and Europeanization	If Spengler had given his admirers a clearer idea of what to do near the end, more of us would have given him the five stars, but he did not, so let's  add in what he missed: As the twentieth century dawned it became  increasingly evident that technology would develop into an extraordinary  phenomenon, a new dimension altogether, capable of taking us on to our next  stage of evolution or of destroying us culturally or physically.<br />In the  1920s the Italian Futurist art movement founded by Filippo Marinetti  represented efforts which avant garde thinkers around the globe were making  to adjust to options as they emerged to contradict prevailing trends in a  plodding Western civilization.<br />The Futurists declared in revolutionary  manifestos their worship of speed, adventure, experiment and change. The  movement also carried the seeds of its own destruction, for going to its  logical extreme it met resistance as it assailed museums, history, rural  values and past artistic achievement.<br />Many of these flamboyant  personalities, aware of their failure to set pragmatic goals, sought other  outlets for their talents.<br />Mussolini's fascism desired to weld the nation  together through great public works programs, and people such as Marinetti  helped to bring the Futurist movement into its front ranks.<br />Other  national leaders, too, Roosevelt, Hitler, Stalin and Churchill, picked up  the song of the technician and produced their own styles for mobilizing  their peoples.<br />Reaching the multitudes by radio, still in its embryonic  stage of impressionability potential, they all took on a deity-like  aura.<br />The promises seems like miracles, but they were delivered in  varying degrees according to national character, in the form of spectacular  projects for constructing roads, automobiles, planes, airports, ships and  docks. All this required a nation working in unison to bring these  accomplishments into the lives of those who made them possible.<br />This was  a plough-sword situation though; because weapons too had improved and  multiplied dramatically, any war declared could reach the worker's family  at home.<br />Increased national ability required greater resources, expansion  led to collision and so on to World War 2.<br />Those who ignore history are  always repeating it. Today the cultural centers from Hollywood to Moscow  play the role of the Futurists. In Hollywood it is more obvious. Miles of  colored celluloid depict the virtues of speed, adventure, experiment,  change and violence.<br />The face of this neo-Futurism we are most familiar  with is the narrow capitalist culture which dominates America and Western  Europe. Yet America, to a great degree, is still an extension of Europe in  a cultural sense, a society in a more advanced state of technical  prosperity and cultural displacement; thus less European.<br />America's role  in Europe has two effects at least. The positive one is that we are  increasing our contact with the Homeland, returning to family members as  the early explorers did with treasures from the New World. This comes in  the form of expertise developed by access to frontier resources.<br />The  other effect is negative. Bringing in a dominant techno-culture, which in  Europe is accelerated by its own banks, an even lower level of European  consciousness is promoted, and the strength of our heritage is sapped at  the root.<br />Additionally, old nationalisms still serve to divide the  loyalties of whites worldwide, as do local white ethnic divisions within  nations; so both of these loyalties need to be realigned within greater  European perspectives as the opportunities arise.<br />Work to spread the news  about the extension of our patriotism, for it is the reality of kinship.  The growing impulses of European cultural involvement in the United States  are the catalyst you must personally use to abash today's obsolete forms of  racial nationalism.<br />Thus we must affirm: obsolete Futurism and predatory  nationalism must give way to a new synthesis of technology and cultural  integrity within a European creed.	1999-11-26
US	52066663	R4MP9A2PA9387	0895263246	844347053	The Bell Tower: The Case of Jack the Ripper Finally Solved... in San Francisco	Books	3	5	5	N	N	There Was No Bell In The Tower!	Graysmith's book provides the basic story in more generous detail than anyone else this century, and he should be credited for that, however, as one who is also familiar with the case I was disappointed to see him  swallowing the defense's position that Theodore was innocent. Then that  business about Jack the Ripper being responsible: Ooo, I cringe. Even  Graysmith's title &quot;The Bell Tower&quot; signals trouble, for anyone  who's ever seen the newspaper drawings on the story knows there was no bell  up there. Crime writer Colin Wilson made the same error. In 1895 the  steeple was ominously referred to by reporters as &quot;the place where no  bell ever tolled.&quot; That's the reason no one bothered to go up there  for the ten days that it took to find Blanch Lamont's body. And one last  thing, for now, Blanch Lamont's tombstone does not use the  &quot;Blanche&quot; spelling Graysmith uses for her name. But don't get me  wrong, you should still buy the book. The Durrant case was the most  interesting murder story San Francisco experienced at the turn of the  century. In fact, it virtually brought this city to a halt.	1999-08-07
