US	52069428	R1GCEOZ28W4YOX	093961619X	839877645	Tongue Diagnosis in Chinese Medicine	Books	3	83	88	N	N	Could have used better pictures	The book is a pretty good introduction to tongue diagnosis. It could have been more exhaustive, though.<br /><br />My chief complaint, however, is that the 50 or so color plates designed to show various phenomena are based on actual case studies where the subjects were (as is usually the case in Chinese medicine) suffering from any number of various effects. In other words, I would have preferred to see a completely normal tongue except for some jagged marks on the sides which signify spleen chi deficiency. Then I would know what spleen chi deficiency looks like on the tongue. But when the book talks about spleen chi deficiency, there is no picture. The pictures come in the end, and there some of the tongues manifest jagged marks on the side along with countless other shapes, textures, and discolorations, and I am never really sure what is what. And I am still not sure what a 'normal' tongue looks like.<br /><br />But the subject is exciting, though. Most of my reviews are written about religious or linguistic subjects, and I am sure a lot of the people who read them are religious or intellectual and scoff at such subjects as tongue diagnosis in ancient Asian folk medicine. But keeping in mind that the tongue is essentially a bundle of nerves that runs right down the center of the body, and, being the governor of one of the body's five senses, plugs directly into the brain in a very significant way. After reading this book and seeing these 50 or so color plates, I am ASTOUNDED at the differences found from one tongue and the next, and do not at all doubt that the many shapes, colors, sizes, and conditions of people's tongues does have a lot to say about many aspects of their health.<br /><br />This book is not too expensive and truly fascinating. Its writer is revered as a paragon of Traditional Chinese Medicine in the West. It is indispensible if you are in the TCM field, as there just aren't that many books of its type out there. My low rating and initial complaints are primarily for the benefit of the author, who is sure to expand the book in future editions. Please add more pictures above and beyond the case study method used presently. I want to see a few normal tongues. I also want to see pictures of tongues that are normal except for only one unusual feature so that I can see what that feature looks like on its own.mplaints are primarily for the benefit of the author, who is sure to expand the book in future editions. Please add more pictures above and beyond the case study method used presently. I want to see a few normal tongues. I also want to see pictures of tongues that are normal except for only one unusual feature so that I can see what that feature looks like on its own.	2005-01-06
US	52069428	R240JHRWENYROL	0879500026	180565907	Arabic-English Dictionary: The Hans Wehr Dictionary of Modern Written Arabic	Books	1	12	30	N	N	Get the Paperback	My mother bought this for me for Christmas. She used the \\"available new and used\\" section to get it a little cheaper. She ended up paying $160 or so. When I put this on my wish list I thought that this hardcover version would be the Arabic-English/English-Arabic, considering that it was $175 and the paperback of the Arabic-English only was available for $45. As it turns out, this is only the hardcover of the Arabic-English only. So for one, my mother paid an additional $115 for only the hardcover version of a book that I could have gotten in the paperback for $45. I still do not have the English-Arabic of the Hans Wehr edition.	2004-12-25
US	52069428	R2AFUFMU4CP2K1	0806119373	684686014	Homeric Greek: A Book for Beginners	Books	3	25	32	N	N	Not Ideal for the Solo Learner	The best thing about this book is the introductory article explaining why Homeric Greek should be the first type of ancient Greek that a student should be exposed to. Of course the incredible quality of certain New Testament Greek introductory grammars provide, in my opinion, a more practical introductory source. They claim that classical Attic is usually a student's first dialect and that Xenophon's Anabasis is normally a student's first text, and that this is a bad choice because Homer is more interesting to prospective classics students and more relevant in terms of its effect on classical culture and world literature. They also make the point that Homeric Greek is easier than Attic and a more appropriate stepping stone. Against this argument one can say that there is no text more culturally relevant than the New Testament, and that New Testament Koine is both easier than Attic and more similar to it than the Homeric form.<br /><br />As a grammar, this book is inferior to, say, Bill Mounce's Basics of Biblical Greek. The print is small and often unclear, and the lessons are peculiar in their organization. The beginning of the book consists of graduated lessons that contain little instruction, but merely references to other paragraphs in the later part of the book where grammatical information is presented. This makes the book very flexible for a Greek teacher, who can choose to edit the content of each lesson. The text can also serve as a useful reference tool, as the informative section of the book is organized like a reference grammar.<br /><br />I really can't knock the book, as Homer is a good medium for introductory Greek, and this work makes an innovative attempt to provide both a classroom textbook and a reference grammar. My chief complaint is that I have always been self-taught. The book really requires a teacher to relate its rather unfriendly declension and conjugation tables and tie together the rather odd organization. It just isn't working for me like Bill Mounce's Basics of Biblical Greek, or even David Mastonarde's Intruduction to Attic Greek in terms of organization and clarity.<br /><br />If you have a good teacher and a good classroom environment to work with, Homer makes a great study of basic Greek. For the self-learner, stick with the Koine Greek of the New Testament. It is an easier form of Greek and the text is interesting and relevant for all types of readers. The variety of New Testament writers makes for a more diverse sample of Greek forms. Finally, there are a larger number of higher quality learning materials available, and there is a greater access to distance education courses.<br /><br />Apart from all this, though, I have to say that I haven't found any introductory grammar devoted exclusively to Homer other than this one. If you want to read Homer in the original, you are going to want this book. It does a decent job of showing the idiosyncrasies of the Homeric dialect.<br /><br />I would give this book four stars in terms of use in a classroom. It is a little tough for self-teaching, though, so I only gave it three.e like Bill Mounce's Basics of Biblical Greek, or even David Mastonarde's Intruduction to Attic Greek in terms of organization and clarity. <br /> <br />If you have a good teacher and a good classroom environment to work with, Homer makes a great study of basic Greek. For the self-learner, stick with the Koine Greek of the New Testament. It is an easier form of Greek and the text is interesting and relevant for all types of readers. The variety of New Testament writers makes for a more diverse sample of Greek forms. Finally, there are a larger number of higher quality learning materials available, and there is a greater access to distance education courses. <br /> <br />Apart from all this, though, I have to say that I haven't found any introductory grammar devoted exclusively to Homer other than this one. If you want to read Homer in the original, you are going to want this book. It does a decent job of showing the idiosyncrasies of the Homeric dialect. <br /> <br />I would give this book four stars in terms of use in a classroom. It is a little tough for self-teaching, though, so I only gave it three.	2004-12-25
US	52069428	R2UIHEIGJOLP43	0812094689	994226728	501 Hebrew Verbs : Fully Conjugated in All the Tenses in a New Easy-To-Follow Format alphabetically Arranged by Root	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Incomplete and Disappointing	Unfortunately, these 501 roots do not account for every root in the Hebrew language, and there is no index or table that allows for comparison of roots that do not occur in the volume to those of an identical conjugation pattern that are found in the book. I have not looked at 201 Hebrew verbs, but I have used 201 Arabic Verbs. In 201 Arabic Verbs, an index of verb patterns lists all of the various patterns of irregularity in verbal conjugations and gives example verbs that conform to these patterns that are found in the book. So if I need to find out how a verb is conjugated that is not listed in the book, I turn to the index and look up the particular form (binyan) and which type of irregularity it has (ain-yod, for example) and I get a list of verbs that follow that pattern. I can then conjugate the verb that I need like one of them. Now since the presence of pharyngials and doubled consonants do not cause irregularities of conjugation in Arabic, there are certainly many fewer irregular verbs than in Hebrew, but I can't imagine that such an organization would be impossible. If anyone can tell me of a Hebrew verbal conjugation book that is organized like 201 Arabic Verbs, please let me know.	2004-01-30
US	52069428	RT8A46SFOWZZC	0951054678	535539478	A Manual of Acupuncture	Books	5	62	67	N	Y	Better than Chinese Texts	This is the only text that I have on the subject of acupuncture. I am not a practitioner, but had hoped that this one (expensive) text would be sufficient to give me a total foundation in the discipline and would eventually allow me to use acupressure or some rudiments of the field in my own efforts to promote good health.<br />I was a little dissappointed that the introductory and foundational material was lacking in the book, and that there were no separate sections on diagnosis or expositions of the nature of pathogens. The book is essentially a description of each and every one of the 360 or so primary acupuncture points of Traditional Chinese Medicine. There is a good bit of material about methodology of point selection, but the real gem of this book is the intelligent and thorough descriptions of the points, their properties, and how to locate and needle them. The reason that I gave the book five stars is that it is far more complete and logical in its point descriptions than any of the Chinese texts used by my acupuncturist, a Chinese chiropractor who was a medical doctor Shanghai for eight years before coming to the US and becoming a chiropractor. Often when a discipline is translated from one language and culture to another, the highly systematized translation is more complete and sensible than the eclectic literature corpus upon which it is based. Those who devised this book have created a phenomenally comprehensive synthesis of over 3,000 years of Chinese medical tradition. They have taken on a monumental task and succeeded brilliantly. The quality of this reference is so high that I would even recommend it to practitioners from the orient who are coming to the US or other English-speaking countries to start a practice. First, it will it help them learn the English vocabulary of acupuncture jargon and help them understand our butchered pronunciations of the many Chinese words in an English acupuncturist's vocabulary. Second, they will be able to better communicate their activities to their patients. Finally, the book is as high a quality reference as anything they will have brought with them from Asia.mmunicate their activities to their patients. Finally, the book is as high a quality reference as anything they will have brought with them from Asia.	2003-03-30
US	52069428	R6A90VB1FFMHE	0892811706	875527415	Muhammad: His Life Based on the Earliest Sources	Books	5	11	20	N	N	Very Revealing	I bought this book in order to gain an understanding a history of the world that produced the Koran as well as to be better able to form an opinion about the nature of initial Islamic expansion. Detractors of Islam often accuse the religion of worldwide expansion through violent conquest, rather than evangelistic preaching. Muslims are quick to deny this. I wanted to be able form an opinion about this issue.<br />The book was purchased at a local bookstore, and I did not have the benefit of a large selection to choose from, but all of the books about Muhammad and early Islam on the shelf seemed to be written from an entirely Western, secular perswpective. This book promised to give a traditional perspective of Muhammad as the most ancient Islamic texts remember him.<br />I was thoroughly surprised by what I read. Indeed the book did present Muhammad as an infallible harbinger of divine truth. It never once doubted the veracity of the Koranic revelation, attributed great miracles to Muhammad, and presented him as a nearly superhuman paragon of wisdom and character. This, however is not what surprised me. What blew me away was the frankness with which the book described Muhammad's marriages to the 6-year-old Aisha and a plethora of other women. The book always defends Muhammad's motives, but anyone who reads the book is struck with the realisation that Muhammad was in no way able to resist marrying women. Martin Ling even describes how continuously enlarged his family by marriage over the protestations of his wives and how his family was brought to his knees by his numerous spouses. Every woman in the book that is portrayed as beautiful ends up being married to Muhammad.<br />Furthermore, the book does reveal that Muhammad was the aggressor in virtually every military campaign of his lifetime. Lings never fails to offer justifications for Muhammad's attacks, claiming that the communities with which he fought were unfriendly to Islam, hostile to Muslims, would have attacked the Muslims at a later date, or that their existence was a thorn in the side of Islam that had to be stopped. Of course even Napoleon had justifications for his attacks. In fact, the book reveals that only after virtually every power center on the Arabian peninsula was conquered by force did the many smaller communities convert to Islam. The massive voluntary conversions took place after Muhammad forbid anyone but Muslims from making the pilgrimage to Mecca and after Muhammad had established additional taxes for non-Muslims.<br />This book was an amazing read. I could not believe that it reveals that basically every criticism of anti-Islam groups turned out to be at least loosely based on the truth while describing Muhammad and his religion in glowingly friendly terms.acked the Muslims at a later date, or that their existence was a thorn in the side of Islam that had to be stopped. Of course even Napoleon had justifications for his attacks. In fact, the book reveals that only after virtually every power center on the Arabian peninsula was conquered by force did the many smaller communities convert to Islam. The massive voluntary conversions took place after Muhammad forbid anyone but Muslims from making the pilgrimage to Mecca and after Muhammad had established additional taxes for non-Muslims.<br />This book was an amazing read. I could not believe that it reveals that basically every criticism of anti-Islam groups turned out to be at least loosely based on the truth while describing Muhammad and his religion in glowingly friendly terms.	2003-03-13
US	52069428	R12EFQQJ9BZU3E	0801021081	284256469	Persia and the Bible	Books	5	39	43	N	N	A Thorough Study: Very Scholarly	Edwin Yamaucht is true to his usual excellence in delivering to the lay reader an intelligent and thoroughly researched treatise of a highly academic topic. Those who would disapprove of this book seem to be incensed that it is not written with the slant or emphasis that they desire. The book's success lies in the fact that it is not another tendentious portrayal of some assumed relationship between Zoroastrianism and Judaism. Such a relationship will likely never be scientifically proven, and therefore does not deserve a place among critical scholastic works. Nor does Dr. Yamaucht's book seek to advance this or that theory on biblical authorship or some other such spurious conjecture.<br />The primary aim of the work is to describe the nation of Persia of the biblical era, focusing almost exclusively on the Archaemenid kings of the late biblical period with which the vast majority of Persia-focused biblical literature concerns itself. The method of description is basically historical, with most of the chapters of the book devoted to one particular Archaemenid king, or a particular Persian city described mainly as it existed in the Archaemenid period. There are final chapters on Zoroastrianism, the Magi, and Mithraism that are intended to give a basic introduction to these subjects that are often of interest to the biblical enthusiasts. Though these final chapters are extensive and thorough, anyone desiring more on these subjects would be best advised to buy books devoted exclusively to them.<br />As a historian, Dr. Yamaucht makes extensive use of biblical and Greek sources, though he refers consistently to the occasional Syriac source as well. Dr. Yamaucht's choice of sources is certainly the result of their higher quality as historical references. One of the most impressive qualities of his treatement is a near complete lack of bias concerning the bible. If one pays close attention, one might be able to discern a secular perspective, but Dr. Yamaucht treats the bible as the excellent source of history that it is, and the book should be entirely inoffensive to religious or secular readers, excepting perhaps those minimalist readers who dare not challenge their fabulous impression of the bible as a grand deception.<br />My hat is off to Edwin Yamaucht for his achievement. His writing is intelligent, yet clear and concise, and he has truly succeeded in informing the lay reader about what the sources have to say about the Persian empire that they have read about in the bible.ible as the excellent source of history that it is, and the book should be entirely inoffensive to religious or secular readers, excepting perhaps those minimalist readers who dare not challenge their fabulous impression of the bible as a grand deception.<br />My hat is off to Edwin Yamaucht for his achievement. His writing is intelligent, yet clear and concise, and he has truly succeeded in informing the lay reader about what the sources have to say about the Persian empire that they have read about in the bible.	2003-02-27
US	52069428	R3RU9BSG9BLDBP	1579102646	762670537	Grammar of Palestinian Jewish Aramaic	Books	3	41	41	N	N	Not a Bad Grammar Depite Appearances	Right now there is a dearth of good Aramaic grammars on the market. Excepting Syriac, which can claim Wheeler M. Thackston's \\"Introduction to Syriac\\" the Jewish, Old, and Imperial dialects of Aramaic are accessed through grammars which, though in most cases posessing some merit, universally lack many of the qualities of a good grammar or textbook. This little grammar is no exception.<br />Though the compact size is convenient, the text of this grammar is downright ugly, with vocalizations written in by hand and the English text written on an ancient typewriter. The whole of the text is horribly compact, making it easy to overlook sections when searching for answers. The situation would be intolerable were it not for the fact that the book is organized by numbered paragraph markers. Explanations are painfully brief and assume a good bit of knowledge of Semitic languages (if not knowledge of another dialect of Aramaic) and philological training.<br />I would have considered this grammar a total loss except that the little bugger does actually have a huge amount of information in it. Being trained as I am at the business of learning dead Semitic languages, I am able to get around with the book and I have rarely been disappointed in my search for an answer to any particular question. The book is careful to show distinctions between Targumic Aramaic and Midrashic Aramaic, both subdialects that come under the umbrella of Palestinian Aramaic. It also frequently references Biblical Aramaic.<br />Finally, I should note that this book is strictly a reference grammar. It is organized by grammatical structure, and pays no mind to organization in lessons that introduce a student to the language through gradual introduction of concepts based on frequency or ease of learning. There are of course no excercises or glossaries.<br />Not for the novice, but an Aramaist or Hebraist who wants to dig into the Targums could profit much from this work.	2003-02-01
US	52069428	R18KP6ZZV1R6MN	0674993071	574458706	Diodorus Siculus: Library of History, Volume I, Books 1-2.34 (Loeb Classical Library No. 279)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Very Exciting Blend of Myth and History	I have purchased a very large number of the Loeb Clasical Library series, usually as materials for research. Very rarely do I read an ancient author from cover to cover for enjoyment. This book have proven to be every bit as gripping as a modern novel.<br />I originally bought the book solely for the purpose of having a sample of Hellenistic Greek that I could compare with the grammar of the New Testament. I really had not planned to even occasionally use the volume as a reference. Upon receiving the book, though, I opened it up and read a little of the English just to get a sense of the work in general. I was hooked from the very first pages.<br />As a historian, Diodorus has often been criticized for employment of unreliable sources, lack of discrimination, and a poor organization of material. Part of the general scholarly distaste for Diodorus results one one hand from his free intermingling of what is clearly mythology with history. On the other hand, huge sections of his history are organized year by year, so that he describes what happens in a given year in every empire that he covers. The year-by-year organization does not begin until about book five, however. The initial books of his history cover the origins and characteristics of various major races and nations of his world, and as mentioned above, incorporate great elements of fancy. It is these elements that have made his series so interesting to read, however.<br />It is obvious that Bulfinch's Mythology and other standard works on Greek mythology draw much material from Diodorus Siculous, and reading it definitely makes one feel like he is walking along the paths of the scholars.	2002-11-30
US	52069428	R10RP7FG6KMLI3	094387274X	111374640	A Short Grammar of Biblical Aramaic (Andrews University Monographs)	Books	4	49	49	N	Y	A Great Little Grammar	I have just started to take a serious look at the Aramaic language and have used this book as a starting point. I have not actually bought the book, but am working from a xerox copy of it that I made when I found it in the University of Heidelberg's library a few years ago. I have just now gotten to working through the grammar, and I am quite impressed. I will probably end up buying it on my next book binge, as the photocopy left a few parts difficult to read.<br />This grammar is set up in a traditional graduated learning format, with a particular grammatical concept and/or set of paradigms assigned to each chapter, with vocabulary lists and translation excercises at the end of the chapter. A glossary is found at the end of the book accompanied by a section of several tables of paradigms. The grammatical concepts assigned to each chapter are well defined, and the book is sufficiently indexed, allowing it to be a useful reference. Issues of Aramaic syntax are treated only superficially, but sufficiently to gain a passive understanding of the language of the Aramaic portions of Daniel and Ezra.<br />My only complaint is that the translation excercises are not accompanied by any explanatory notes. I have had to do some guessing as to why certain passages are translated the way they are. This book does assume knowledge of Biblical Hebrew, but stands more or less on its own. One could theoretically use it without knowledge of Hebrew, though such a person would have to somehow learn the Hebrew/Aramaic alphabet. He would also find discussions of syntax painfully brief and cryptic. This grammar is lightyears ahead of other Aramaic grammars, Namely Stevensons' Grammar of Palestinian Jewish Aramaic, which really seeks only to teach the particular idiosyncracies of the Palestinian Jewish dialects. It was totally incomprehensible to me, even as someone who already knew Hebrew. I can't understand how it got good reviews. Johns' book is a great first look at Aramaic.	2002-05-27
US	52069428	RX83WUHVNG62M	0801010659	958316634	Old Testament Textual Criticism: A Practical Introduction	Books	3	21	34	N	N	Not Enough Information	This book is well organized and speaks in a language that the novice can understand. Unfortunately, I have often been left with the impression that more information could have been added to the book so as to spare me a few trips to the library. I bought Brotzman's book when I was living in Germany at the same time I also bought &quot;Textkritik der Hebr&auml;ischen Bibel&quot;, the German translation of a Hebrew work by Emmanual Tov, also, I believe, translated into English as &quot;Textual Criticism of the Hebrew Bible&quot;. I have to say that I prefer Tov's work. Tov provides more information on the various non-Hebrew versions, with Saadia ben Yusuf's Arabic translation being completely absent from Brotzman's book. Also, Tov's book has much more material on the Dead Dea Scrolls. Actually, Tov's book, being considerably larger, has more material on just about everything. Also, Tov's bibliographic information is more extensive and accessible, being listed with every chapter.<br />Brotzman's book is easier to understand (at least for me, as I was working with Tov in German), and perhaps this is why it is more commonly found in seminary bookstores than Tov's book. I would have to recommend Tov's book on account of the content, however. If you think you are too stupid to handle Tov's book, then this one is for you, but if that is the case, you'd best not meddle in Old Testament textual criticism.<br />I gave this book three stars because it is a complete introduction and provides all the basic information that a beginner needs to know. Beyond this, however, the book is really disappointing. I already knew pretty much everything in Brotzman's book before I read it and have never found any reason to refer back to it. Tov's book, on the other hand, though also an introduction, was a valuable reference to me long after I bought it and read it for the first time. Unfortunately, I lost that book during my move from Germany and have occasionally picked up Brotzman's book in hopes that it might answer some question that I had, only to be disappointed every time. Three stars is a generous award for this work.s that it might answer some question that I had, only to be disappointed every time. Three stars is a generous award for this work.	2001-02-19
US	52069428	R39KJAX7HT5IAC	0609801309	867879334	Pharaohs and Kings: A Biblical Quest	Books	5	70	74	N	Y	Required Reading for Egyptologists	To say the very least, this book is an enlightening read. The author attempts to design a new chronology of Egypt based on a number of archaeological observations he made which pointed to certain anomolies in the standard chronology of the Third Intermediate Period of Egyptian history. The TIP is one of those points in history where information is scanty and there is much room for error in interpreting existing archaeological evidence. Rohl posits that the 21st and 22nd pharaonic dynasties were at least partly contemprary in a period of balkanization of Egypt, contrary to the conventional chronology's view that they were successive. He therefore shifts the entire preceding dynastic histories downward from 200 to 300 years. That is, what we previously though to occur at 1250 BC actually happened at 1000 BC according to Rohl. In so doing Rohl has done much to synchronize Egyptian chronology with the chronology of the bible.<br />Rohl claims that the Amarna letters were not to be compared to Joshua's conquest of Canaan, a period where they clearly do not fit, but rather tell the tale of Saul's and David's claiming of Israel from Phillistine Egyptian vassals. He synchonizes Ramesses II's conquests of Asia Minor with the biblical invasion of Shishak. Also, he identifies the Egyptian 'Hyksos' with the Amalekites of the book of Exodus. There are many other enlightening points of connection with the bible that Rohl makes, but my point here is not to explain them all.<br />The true value of this book for any egyptologist, student of biblical history, or any student of the ancient world at all, is this book's popular presentation of the field of archaeology and ancient history. So rare are books that actually connect a lay reader with the methodologies and evidence upon which researchers base their works. In order to show a need for a revision of Egyptian chronology, Rohl shows how the entirety of Egyptian chronology depends on all but of a handful of archaeological finds, many of them of dubious reliability. Even if Rohl's opponents find more pieces of evidence supporting the standard chronology, the number will still be very small and they will quite likely be as subject to interpretation, as are the ones that Rohl has pointed out. Rohl goes to great lengths to show the history of the observations that scholarship has made, thereby showing us where they may have gone wrong. (As a popular book, I must confess that parts of Rohl's historical narratives depict events in which one expects to find Indiana Jones) Next, when building his own chronology, Rohl puts us close to the texts and archaeological evidence upon which he bases his theories. Rohl's conclusions are in many cases impressive, but in some cases I had to shake my head and come to the conclusion that he was grasping at straws. For instance, I believe that his work in astronomical retrocalulations to find the dates of eclipses recorded in ancient texts is pretty shaky. I even doubt that the text that he is talking about is even mentioning an eclipse. This information has proved to be incredibly valuable to me, however, as I now know that astronomy based chronology, something I though would give absolute and undisputable dates, is as foggy an area of research as any.<br />I do not know if I will eventually embrace Rohl's ideas or not, or if partially. I do know that reading this book has shown me the types of reasoning and observations that old world historians make, and can now make an informed decision about how firm our grip on dating events of the past is. My conclusion: if somebody tells you some biblical event did not happen because the dates don't line up with scientific knowledge, don't be disheartened. We have a LONG way to go before we can truly be confident about such statements, if indeed we will ever arrive at that sort of knowledge. This uncertainty that I have gained from Rohl's book is corroberated by the &quot;Oxford History of Ancient Egypt&quot; which provideswonderful information on Egyptian chronology.<br />Everyone who wants to study ancient history, whether it be Egyptian, biblical, Middle Eastern, or even Chinese for that matter, should read this book, so the next time they read somewhere that 'such and such happened at 3200 BC', they will know to take that statement with a grain of salt. Whether Rohl is right or not, I am forever indebted to him for showing me how chronologists operate.<br />Lastly, I would like to say, after all this talk about archaeology and methodology of Egyptologists, that this book is very readable and comprehensible to the lay reader. Though a smattering of knowledge of biblical and/or Egyptian history will make the book more interesting to the reader, no such knowledge is required in order to understand the book or find value in it. It is truly a popular book intended for the average interested person. I recommend it to all.wonderful information on Egyptian chronology.<br />Everyone who wants to study ancient history, whether it be Egyptian, biblical, Middle Eastern, or even Chinese for that matter, should read this book, so the next time they read somewhere that 'such and such happened at 3200 BC', they will know to take that statement with a grain of salt. Whether Rohl is right or not, I am forever indebted to him for showing me how chronologists operate.<br />Lastly, I would like to say, after all this talk about archaeology and methodology of Egyptologists, that this book is very readable and comprehensible to the lay reader. Though a smattering of knowledge of biblical and/or Egyptian history will make the book more interesting to the reader, no such knowledge is required in order to understand the book or find value in it. It is truly a popular book intended for the average interested person. I recommend it to all.	2001-02-10
US	52069428	R1CN0RP7KLUD7Z	0226039323	222086894	A Greek-English Lexicon of the New Testament and Other Early Christian Literature, Second Edition	Books	5	24	27	N	Y	Quite Usable	I am reviewing the second edition of this book, having only recently discovered the third edition, which may have a number of differences. This lexicon is one of the more thorough lexicons of the New Testament. It gives a wealth of information about each word, including several definitions as well as examples of its use in various places in scripture and other ancient writings. Even opinions of various scholars about meanings are found. The book is touted as the lexicon that gives you the information that you need to make a personal decision about what the word means, discovering the definition on your own. The most common complaint about the lexicon is that it is so exhaustive that it can be difficult to use, and people often prefer to have a smaller dictionary that will just give them a quick definition. I have personally been quite impressed by the usability of this lexicon, however. For each word there are short, concise definitions in italics, and one can ignore all the supplementary information if one wills. If one can only afford one lexicon, I would hope they would get this one. It is the standard lexicon, and the complaints about it being cumbersome are unfounded.	2001-01-27
US	52069428	R25CKL1BM2JW18	0393002926	888662221	The Sumerians (Norton Library (Paperback))	Books	1	10	21	N	N	This is not Scholarship	This book is completely devoid of bibliographic references. There is no bibliography at all, and whatever occasional footnote one might find is merely Woolley elaborating on his own thoughts. I do not remember Wooley once referring to a particular archaeological find or text that is supposed to support his ideas, other than a vague mentioning of the famous Stele of Hammurabi, and in this case he provides no physical data. The book has nothing to offer anyone who wants to seriously research the Sumerians for the purpose of drawing independent conclusions. The book might be interesting to those who simply want to hear Woolley ramble about his interpretation of what happened in the time of the Sumerians and what life was like for them, but even then the book is no use as Woolley's theories are dated, inaccurate, and unsupported.<br />This is not scholarship. It is just Woolley telling stories.	2001-01-15
US	52069428	R13CP9SGKNJLN3	0840783574	431937438	The Nkjv Greek English Interlinear New Testament: Features Word Studies & New King James Parallel Text	Books	5	14	20	N	N	Does a Lot of Work for You	This book is very nice, having the Greek majority text on the page, with corresponding English translations of every Greek word underneath, and the New King James version is in the margins for comparison. There are also textual notes at the bottoms of the margins as well as notes about how other Greek texts are different in some verses. I give the book 5 stars as a product.<br />Now let me tell you not to use interlinears. It completely defeats the purpose of working with the Greek text. Hodges and Farstad have made a number of judgment calls in their ultra-literal translation, so you are really just buying their opinions. You might as well just have a translation that you trust in front of you. Interlinears fake you into thinking you are working with the Greek text when you are actually just working with the observations of those who made the interlinear. Do yourself a favor and learn Greek.	2001-01-08
US	52069428	R182CREXA2QLPX	0674091760	451732221	Canaanite Myth and Hebrew Epic: Essays in the History of the Religion of Israel	Books	1	47	186	N	N	Based on a Faulty Foundation	I do not approve of this book. Cross' thinking is based on the assumption that the documentary hypothesis is a valid theory. The documentary hypothesis is an antiquated theory of biblical origin that would be dead, were it not for a few scholars like Cross who choose to ignore evidence provided by generations of research in the area of paleo-Hebrew epigraphy and Chiasmus in semitic literature which prove the foundation of the documentary hypothesis, doublets, are merely semitic literary style, and not evidence that the bible was a conflation of sources from the Babylonian captivity.<br />To put it simply: Cross is not reading the bible before him. Before he reads any given passage of the bible, he cuts it out of the bible and pastes it together with other passages that he interprets similarly as representing what he theorizes as being the evolutionary state of Israelite religion at the time that he theorizes that those passages were written. And the time at which they are written is determined solely by scholarly imagination, not any historical, archaeological, or linguistic evidence. That is, Cross would like for Israelite monotheism to have developed from surrounding pagan culture over an evolutionary process that gained form after the 10th century BC. We mention to Cross that the bible claims a direct revelation from God of the concept of monotheism during the 15th century BC. Cross tells us that the bible does not indeed say this, but rather conforms to his theory. How does he know? THE DOCUMENTARY HYPOTHESIS! The documentary hypothesis claims that the bible was forged during the Babylonian captivity in the 6th century BC, and Cross proceeds to rearrange the bible into its 'original' form, which of course supports his theories about the evolution of Israelite religion from paganism. Of course he has no evidence for his 'original' form of the bible at all. Only his own theories about how religions should come about: naturalistically and humanistically.<br />Therefore, when you buy this book you will get Cross comparing sections of the Hebrew bible to excerpts from extra-biblical semitic literature COMPLETELY OUT OF CONTEXT.fore, when you buy this book you will get Cross comparing sections of the Hebrew bible to excerpts from extra-biblical semitic literature COMPLETELY OUT OF CONTEXT.	2001-01-06
US	52069428	R2EH8ME5AZIRQI	0840749635	292380473	The Greek New Testament According to Majority Text (English and Greek Edition)	Books	5	58	67	N	N	A Must-Have	I own the second edition of this book, which is apparently currently out of print. I am hoping that a new edition is the works, and so thought I would give a review. This book is a real boon to New Testament scholarship. It is a revival of scholarly lines of thinking that have lost popularity in the last centuries. Since time immemorial, the method of finding out whether a particular Greek manuscript contained an accurate rendering of the originals written by the apostles and their associates was to compare it against the majority of available Greek manuscripts (called 'witnesses' because they testify to what the original might have been). If you have a manuscript that said that Jesus walked on honey and a thousand others that said that he walked on water, then your manuscript is incorrect. The reason for this thinking is two-fold. First, on a mundane level, good quality manuscripts will tend to be used as sources for others, while bad quality manuscripts tend to get thrown by the wayside. The second, spiritual reasoning, is that God providentially preserves his written Word, so God will protect good manuscripts and cause them to be copied reliably. God will let the bad manuscripts fall into obscurity. So this was the thinking of the midieval and reformation scholars. This thinking also created the famous \\"Textus Receptus\\" which was used as a basis for the New Testament of the King James Version.<br />In the last century, European scholarship began to apply critical thinking to how manuscripts were transmitted and came up with some new ideas. They thought completely from a humanistic standpoint, that is, they didn't consider God's role in preservation of scripture at all. In addition, they gave weight to the idea that errors accumulate over time, and therefore older manuscripts are better than newer ones. That is, If you have a manuscript that says Jesus walked on honey, and a thousand others that say he walked on water, but the one that says he walked on honey is older, then it is probably correct, and the others are based on later manuscripts in to which errors have crept over time.<br />It just so happens that this is the state of New Testament textual criticism. We have thousands of newer manuscripts that tend to resemble each other and a few really old ones that are a little different, and tend to resemble each other.<br />The most popular Greek texts used by modern scholars are the Novum Testamentum Graece, which is based on the critical method, and the Textus Receptus, which is based on the majority method. Unfortunately, the Receptus is from the 16th century, and has a number of readings that are not majority readings because the compilers of the text had limited information available to them. So it came to pass that anyone 'scholarly' believed in the critical text, and only bumpkin preachers used the Receptus.<br />Lately, however, the theories used by the critical scholars have come under some serious fire. The critical text scholars proposed a theory for why all the later manuscripts have been 'corrupted', but this theory has never yielded any evidence that would prove it true. Also, some believe that the particular family of older manuscripts used by these scholars might have come from a heretical sect. Though this theory has also not yielded any evidence proving it true, enough doubt has been cast on the situation to warrant new respect for the majority of later texts. Maybe they really are better. So the book that I am reviewing was created as a modern update of the Textus Receptus based on the cutting edge of manuscript knowledge. It is not a perfect text, but it is a good one. I highly recommend that seminary students and Greek New Testament enthusiasts purchase it in addition to the critical text and the Textus Receptus.lder, then it is probably correct, and the others are based on later manuscripts in to which errors have crept over time.<br />It just so happens that this is the state of New Testament textual criticism. We have thousands of newer manuscripts that tend to resemble each other and a few really old ones that are a little different, and tend to resemble each other.<br />The most popular Greek texts used by modern scholars are the Novum Testamentum Graece, which is based on the critical method, and the Textus Receptus, which is based on the majority method. Unfortunately, the Receptus is from the 16th century, and has a number of readings that are not majority readings because the compilers of the text had limited information available to them. So it came to pass that anyone 'scholarly' believed in the critical text, and only bumpkin preachers used the Receptus.<br />Lately, however, the theories used by the critical scholars have come under some serious fire. The critical text scholars proposed a theory for why all the later manuscripts have been 'corrupted', but this theory has never yielded any evidence that would prove it true. Also, some believe that the particular family of older manuscripts used by these scholars might have come from a heretical sect. Though this theory has also not yielded any evidence proving it true, enough doubt has been cast on the situation to warrant new respect for the majority of later texts. Maybe they really are better. So the book that I am reviewing was created as a modern update of the Textus Receptus based on the cutting edge of manuscript knowledge. It is not a perfect text, but it is a good one. I highly recommend that seminary students and Greek New Testament enthusiasts purchase it in addition to the critical text and the Textus Receptus.	2001-01-06
US	52069428	R7CASWZEFPQMV	0198150342	949700877	The Oxford History of Ancient Egypt (Oxford Illustrated Histories)	Books	5	241	248	N	N	A Phenomenal Introduction to Egyptology	I cannot praise this book enough. Unfortunately in academic areas, introductions and overviews to various fields, particularly broad histories, tend to reflect the opinions and suppositions of the authors much more than render the actual environment they are working in. This book proves to be a rare exception to this sad fact and sets a standard of scholarship to be emulated by all researchers of the ancient world. Never in egyptology, assyriology, or biblical studies have I found a history that did such a wonderful job of laying out the textual and archaeological finds that scholars base their judgments upon. This is important to me, as I am in disagreement with many scholarly communities about issues of chronology. This book, rather than simply laying out tables and dates, supplements those tables with actual references to the texts and archaeological items that have lead scholars to date things the way they have, pointing out inconsistancies and uncertainties along the way.<br />After reading this book, I have become convinced that the history of Egypt is not as well known as most books on Egypt would have us believe.<br />The book is a mammoth undertaking, attempting to chronicle the history of Egypt from prehistory until 311 BC. Introductory sections on the state of research and certainty of chronolology are extremely enlightening. I was particularly impressed with the chapters on prehistory and the naqada culture, in which the archeological evidence and its interpretation were expressely explained to the reader, allowing the reader to agree or disagree with the authors as they wish. My only complaint is that the book, being an anthology of essays by a variety of scholars, shows some inconsistancy in its thoroughness. The chapter on the 18th dynasty reads a little like standard books on the subject, that is, the reader is kept from the evidence to support the author's view and the author seems to have trouble distinguishing his own suppositions from the facts of history, at times appearing a little tendentious.<br />Overall, this book is the best history of an ancient culture that I have yet read.f history, at times appearing a little tendentious.<br />Overall, this book is the best history of an ancient culture that I have yet read.	2001-01-05
US	52069428	R111UYJWRO9FNS	0931464315	492608751	An Introduction to Biblical Hebrew Syntax	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Excellent Reference Tome	This book really gives you what you know to dig into advanced Hebrew studies. It is certainly not the end of the road, though, as we still don't understand what the Hebrew verbal system is or exactly how it works. This book concentrates on doing its best to provide an overview of Hebrew sytnax rather than concentrating on particular problems in the research field. If one is looking for answers to these questions, one might be dissappointed by the brevity of the references in this volume. Hebrew is unfortunately still one of those languages where you are going to have a few grammars and subscriptions to a few periodicals before you can feel you have a good idea what's going on. Contrary to poular opinion, Kautsch/Genesius is not so much out of date as it is out of vogue. Such is the nature of Hebrew research. Also, the current Kautsch/Gesenius has an addition by Gotthelf Bergstr&auml;sser covering Hebrew morphology, though I am not sure if A. E. Cowley's English translation has this useful section. I would certainly recommend purchasing Kautsch/Gesenius-Bergstr&auml;sser in addition to this book. I do not read French and have not picked up Jo&uuml;on's version or its English translation.	2001-01-01
US	52069428	R14SL2ODDIZAKP	0310218950	622603436	Greek Grammar Beyond the Basics: An Exegetical Syntax of the New Testament with Scripture, Subject, and Greek Word Indexes	Books	4	98	107	N	N	A Great Grammar	I actually found this book years ago when I knew no Greek at all and was looking for grammars of the Attic dialect. I had no idea that I would one day commit myself to the understanding of the bible. It is actually through an advertisement in the back of this book that I found the whole Zondervan line, including William Mounce's fantastic introductory grammar. Now, years later, as I prepare for seminary, I find that I am already equipped with most of the Greek textsbooks that I will need there.<br />This book is a real treasure. Long before I could read any Greek I combed over the excellent essays at the beginning about the nature of New Testament Greek and the issues of teaching and learning Greek in his \\"purpose of this book\\" essay. Also, the book is designed as a reference, giving you everything you ever wanted to know about cases in one swoop, then verbs in one swoop, etc., yet Wallace keeps the various components of the Greek language distinct from one another and is very meticulous in assuming greater knowledge from the student as one works through the book, indicating that it is designed to be methodically worked through from beginning to end in seminary courses. The result is a teaching aid that is a well-indexed reference, usable for one's entire lifetime. Also, Wallace includes a number of examples with each of his paragraphs, and each of the examples is translated from the Greek. This is a wonderful boon for someone like me who, though having started Greek 4 years ago before before learning any foreign language, has since learned to speak German and read Hebrew fluently, but never got the time to acquire great fluency in New Testament Greek. My daily biblical studies have prompted me to do many advanced word studies and pose a number of syntactical questions involving Greek, yet I have never really attained the vocabulary or fluency in the language as one who can just pick up a Greek New Testament and read it. In this respect, Wallace's clear language and numerous translated examples have helped me to no end.<br />I guess what I am trying to say is that this book is very user-friendly and makes a wonderful companion even to beginning students in the language, or for pastors whose Greek has gotten rusty.numerous translated examples have helped me to no end.<br />I guess what I am trying to say is that this book is very user-friendly and makes a wonderful companion even to beginning students in the language, or for pastors whose Greek has gotten rusty.	2001-01-01
US	52069428	RIP93GTD3CIOC	0802805981	453039653	Biblical Hebrew: An Introductory Grammar	Books	4	31	34	N	N	A Solid Introduction	This 450 page book is a solid introduction to Biblical Hebrew. The book is organized as a teaching help into graded lessons, but it is well organized into broad topical blocks so it is also useful as a reference. The large section of charts in the appendix has kept this book useful to me years after I began to learn Hebrew. Also, the excercises in the book are completely based on actual verses of the Hebrew Bible even starting from lesson one. There are no contrived, artificial sentences in it. As soon as you start, you are learning the bible. The book truly is the result of years and even generations of Hebrew instruction, and it is used in a very large number of seminaries and universities across the English-speaking world.<br />There is one word of caution to fundamentalist types and KJV enthusiasts who tend to be concerned that modern biblical scholarship is undermining biblical authority: Kelley is an NRSV devotee and bases a number of his translations on this version for the purpose of expressing politically correct, gender neutral language. I really must say that this has had such a small effect on the book that it has diminished nothing, however.<br />I am impressed with it. After working through this book a student will have the basics of classical Hebrew and will be able to read most of the prose narratives of the Torah. Kelley is conservative in his scholarship and gives a good treatment of the Hebrew verbal system, something that scholars don't fully understand at this point.	2000-12-28
US	52069428	R3TOFGQ08BRHXY	1555402879	216749861	A Grammar of Epigraphic Hebrew (RESOURCES FOR BIBLICAL STUDY)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Basically Just a Primer	I have mixed feelings about this book. It is very ambitious as there has never been a formal attempt to standardize epigraphic Hebrew as a language grammatically distinct from biblical Hebrew. It is doubly ambitious as the entire epigraphic Hebrew corpus consists of a paltry few hundred inscriptions, many of them no greater in length than the &quot;In God we Trust&quot; inscription in a US penny, for which we have no standard orthography and must settle for a complete absence of vowels. If any language is ever going to remain a complete mystery to us, it is the language of the old Hebrew inscriptions.<br />The book dares to organize itself like a common reference grammar for biblical Hebrew or Arabic into sections of phonology, morphology, and syntax. It does include a glossary and scores of inscriptions (but certainly not the complete collection), but a knowledge of biblical Hebrew is presumed and there are no excercises to work through. It is strictly a reference grammar. Perhaps because of technical constraints, Gogel uses only transliterated Hebrew. The paleo-Hebrew alphabet (or even the modern Quadrat script) is completely absent from this book. Also, it is quite disappointing that there are a very large number of typographical errors in the book, and a number of the inscriptions are incorrectly rendered. This is particularly damaging when an inscription consists of merely a few consonants. Finally, a number of Gogel's translations are highly suspect.<br />The book fails to convince me of any of the more pressing questions surrounding these inscriptions, particularly the question about whether the inscriptions can even be considered a separate language from biblical Hebrew at all. Because of its format, though, it is useful as a primer to the subject of epigraphic Hebrew. It points out all the various oddities of the inscriptions, has an essay on the history of the field and dating of the various inscriptions, and has a great collection of inscriptions to read. I particularly enjoy the field of epigraphy because the presence of doublets in epigraphic material utterly decimate the documentary hypothesis (also known as the JEPD hypothesis) which has been doing much harm to many people's faith in the reliability of the bible for the last couple of centuries. meSad Hashavyahu 1 (printed in this book) is just such an example.<br />In failing her task to grammatically describe epigraphic Hebrew, Gogels does give us quite a useful book. My low rating of 3 stars is primarily because of the typos and lack of Hebrew alphabet. This book does have quite a bit of valuable content, though.I particularly enjoy the field of epigraphy because the presence of doublets in epigraphic material utterly decimate the documentary hypothesis (also known as the JEPD hypothesis) which has been doing much harm to many people's faith in the reliability of the bible for the last couple of centuries. meSad Hashavyahu 1 (printed in this book) is just such an example.<br />In failing her task to grammatically describe epigraphic Hebrew, Gogels does give us quite a useful book. My low rating of 3 stars is primarily because of the typos and lack of Hebrew alphabet. This book does have quite a bit of valuable content, though.	2000-12-28
US	52069428	R2E9OH5VCJJ75W	0875523382	880718934	The Genesis Flood: The Biblical Record and Its Scientific Implications	Books	2	57	89	N	Y	Out of Date	I am saying this as a creationist: This book needs to be updated. It is just too out of date. Morris' refutation of radiometric dating is that decay rates are innaccurate and unproven. That is because 40 years ago when this book was written radiochronology was new. Now I agree that radiometric dating is unreliable because there are too many unknowns in our assumptions about what should be in a sample that we measure, but it is simply a fact that we can measure them accurately. Aside from this point, most the bibliographic references in this book are all from the 50s. It is simply not usable as an evangelistic tool. Creationists need to abandon this book for one that is based on current research.	2000-12-26
US	52069428	R1K2TT2ABAUKPM	0674785231	923373210	The Sages: The World and Wisdom of the Rabbi's of the Talmud	Books	4	18	20	N	Y	There are Few Like it	This book is difficult to read if you don't follow Urbach's line of reasoning on a number of issues, but the its scope makes it a valuable tool for virtually anyone in the field of Jewish studies. The book has two indexes (one by topic, one by texts mentioned) which help the reader make use of the many obscurer texts that Urbach quotes, some of them virtually impossible to find in translation anywhere. Urbach himself is deeply steeped in a humanistic concept of the evolution of religions, that is, that Monotheism is something that an originally polytheistic Jewish people 'made up' at some point in history, and they have been refining this invention throughout the ages. This can render the book problematic to Orthodox Jews and Fundamentalist Christians, but the sheer wealth of material has made the book a valuable reference to me, even though I hold to the opinion that the biblical religion is revealed, rather than made up. The book is well organized by 'doctrine' or belief, and Urbach does an excellent job of quoting the texts that he uses to come to his conclusions about what the Rabbis believed, when and where they believed it, and how the belief changed over time. He is guilty of an over reliance on various (fallible) opinions about the dating and authorship of a number of these texts, some of them so nebulous as the Dead Sea Scrolls.<br />Over all, Urbach has the same over confidence betrayed by humanist scholars who sometimes forget to check the limits of their knowledge about this ancient people, but the book he has written is so thorough and massive that it cannot be anything other than valuable to any budding Judaist.<br />Chapter headings include: Belief in one God, The Shekhina, Omnipresence and Heaven, Power of God, Magic and Miracle, Power of the Divine Name, The Celestial Retinue, Man, Providence, Written and Oral Law, and other fascinating subjects. Sticky subjects such as the two messianic concepts in Judiasm are handled in depth. Ancient Rabbinical sources (Talmud and older Midrash, Halacha, and Aggada) are preferred, and the Judaism that is explained here is that of the 2nd Temple period and early Christian era, closing with the completion of the generation of the Amoraim, as opposed to the Medieval Judaism of Maimonides and the like.<br />I highly recommend this book, despite Urbach's occasional blunder, to anyone seriously interested in Judiasm and the ancient Jewish literary corpus.ources (Talmud and older Midrash, Halacha, and Aggada) are preferred, and the Judaism that is explained here is that of the 2nd Temple period and early Christian era, closing with the completion of the generation of the Amoraim, as opposed to the Medieval Judaism of Maimonides and the like.<br />I highly recommend this book, despite Urbach's occasional blunder, to anyone seriously interested in Judiasm and the ancient Jewish literary corpus.	2000-12-23
US	52069428	R3CHA38HYLSYHP	1565631439	186963880	Handbook of Biblical Chronology: Principles of Time Reckoning in the Ancient World and Problems of Chronology in the Bible	Books	4	34	34	N	N	A Great Reference	This book is intended to help the sudent of the bible become familiar with the various issues and problems in biblical chronology. It is NOT intended to defend the biblical chronology from divergent chronologies derived from extrabiblical sources. My own area of interest being the Old Testament of patriarchal and Exodus times, I can say that the book does a fantastic job of both revealing difficulties in the biblical chronology as well as offering possibilities for solving those difficulties and preserving the reliability of the biblical record. References to extra-biblical sources are only used when explaining the intrabiblical discrepancies or apparent discrepancies. Finegan has no interest in the Egyptian and near-eastern chronologies in their own rights. He wants only to present the chronology that the bible presents. Finegan accepts the centuries long lifespans of the antedeluvians without a second thought. His aim here is not to convince or defend the validity of any statements in the bible. He only wants to help you see what the bible is telling you. While this makes the book useful to sceptics and the faithful alike, it can be frustrating to those who want to see where the bible measures up against the other ancient chronological sources. I had hoped that the bibliographic references in this book would point me to other works covering the obscure fields of Babylonian and Egyptian chronology, but they do not. If the book had discussed biblical chronology against the backdrop of other systems of chronology, I would have given it five stars. It does do its job of laying out the chronology of the bible perfectly, though, and is a fantastic reference for all students of the bible. Historians of the ancient Middle East might be a bit frustrated, though.	2000-12-20
US	52069428	R3VAK11T07SATQ	0060630353	192773485	Who Wrote the Bible?	Books	1	77	294	N	N	Be sure you don't let yourself call this book an authority	Freedman commits innumerable crimes in his analysis of the sources of the Hebrew text. First, he subscribes to a conclusion about the structure of the text that belies a complete ignorance of ancient semitic poetic and prose structures, that is, that retellings and &quot;doublets&quot; in Hebrew biblical literature are evidence that our finished Hebrew bible is a result of a conflation of separate texts. This is something that biblical scholars are far from agreement on, and those that choose to follow this line of thinking (in spite of considerable evidence that retellings are merely a facet of semitic literary style, particularly in religiously motivated semitic literature) are rarely in agreement about the number and source of these independent compositions, thereby making Freedman's claims to be just another set of suppositions from a scholar who has yet to provide any conclusive evidence (such as the actual existence of one of these source texts) that his suppositions are anything other than his own fancies. Also, Freedman evinces an overarching love of scholars and scholarship, as illustrated by many comments he makes about quivering at the idea of having to deliver papers at conventions attended by mammoth scholastic minds of genius caliber. He is more interested in engaging in dialogue with other scholars, in the process assuming that some of their ideas are true (with little or no evidence) and that others are false (with the same lack of evidence).<br />This book contains basically the dreams and suppositions of a scholar who has nothing before him but a Hebrew bible which he has difficulty understanding and for this reason he assumes that the text is just a hash-mash. He is really only interested in bouncing his ideas around with other, similarly confused scholars and really doesn't say anything that should convince anyone who doesn't want to agree with him about the origin of the biblical text. The book is interesting for those who want to see what the scholars are dreaming up these days, but I would highly recommend that those who read this book also check out works by other scholars who have other notions (whether well founded or not) so they can guage the level of certainty that one can have about biblical origins.cholars are dreaming up these days, but I would highly recommend that those who read this book also check out works by other scholars who have other notions (whether well founded or not) so they can guage the level of certainty that one can have about biblical origins.	2000-12-12
US	52069428	R2PRF9NEE80EUY	0936347406	467459149	An Introduction To Koranic and Classical Arabic	Books	4	50	53	N	N	A Great Book	.... [This] book presents very<br />little in the way of Arabic text with Arabic vowels. In all the tables<br />you get unvocalized Arabic accompanied by transliteration which tells<br />you the vowels and pronunciation. This may annoy those who would like<br />to have experience with the actual text of the Koran which is written<br />with Arabic letters and Arabic vowels.<br />I would like to respond to<br />the review of the sincere Muslim below who found the technical<br />terminology to be a bit confusing. As one who is experienced with<br />classical languages and introductory grammars in general, the language<br />is no more than is necessary to truly understand the structure of the<br />language. If a prospective student of Arabic is not intimidated by the<br />prospect of learning what might be the most difficult language of the<br />world, then he should not let himself be dissuaded by Thackston's<br />terminology. Arabic is a very difficult language. Part of that<br />difficulty is that it is difficult to describe. Thackston is not<br />writing this book for those who want enough Arabic to survive on the<br />streets of Bahrain. He is writing it for those who want to learn the<br />subtle nuances of meaning in the Arabic so that they can better<br />understand an enigmatic text in which they are quite likely looking<br />for the secret of all being. If you truly want to understand Arabic<br />well enough to open the fine nuances of the Qur'an, then you will have<br />to be able to understand the finer points of grammar. In fact,<br />Thackston gives only a rough overview of the grammar of the Koran,<br />focussing mainly on familiarizing a new student with the basic<br />building blocks of the language, and relative to other grammars that I<br />have seen, his technical terminology is quite light. He does want to<br />equip the new student of Qur'anic Arabic with the understanding that<br />he will need in order to continue advanced studies later. Any less<br />from Thackston would be doing the student a disservice.	2000-11-23
US	52069428	R29F2W7B9IFAX4	0801842514	117762299	The Amarna Letters	Books	3	35	37	N	Y	It is really all you have if you don't know Akkadian	Not being able to read Akkadian at the time that I write this article, Moran is really all I have. It is just about the only book that I know of that has enough of the Amarna tablets (all of the 'letters') to be a handy reference for an armchair-scholar like myself to begin to answer the many fascinating problems and questions surrounding these texts. I have discussed the Amarna letters via this translation with a number of respected Old Testament and Ancient Near East scholars who, though knowing Hebrew, Aramaic, etc., are not adept enough with Akkadian to seriously study the cuneiform. Among those people, Moran is considered the final authority, though we are fully aware of the great many criticisms that our Assyriologist brethren (who read the Akkadian fluently) have of Moran's methods of translation. If you don't read Akkadian then you will have to share this book with a number of Hebrew and Near East scholars who also have to trust it. But be warned, those who read Akkadian do not have much good to say about it. I would not be suprized if another such translation appears in the near future. To Moran's credit, I am well-familiar with the egos in academia and this book's detractors may well be denouncing Moran's work in order to make a name for themselves or get their own books and articles published. Academia, much like Hollywood, is founded on fame and good repute. Over all, the book has given me access to the Amarna letters and for that I am thankful, but I have heard enough sceptical talk about the book to make me keep my eye out for another translation.<br />Concerning content, the book is well organized and has excellent indexes for looking up biblical names of people, cities, tribes, Middle Eastern gods, etc. There is a fairly extensive article at the beginning which tries to date the tablets and talk about the character of their language. Except for the criticisms of the translation, the book is very well put together. Lastly, if you haven't gathered as much from my earlier commentary, there is no cuneiform in the book. It is strictly and English translation.uch from my earlier commentary, there is no cuneiform in the book. It is strictly and English translation.	2000-11-23
US	52069428	R1IFHHLSR265SI	1565631501	131699868	Grammar of Septuagint Greek: With Selected Readings, Vocabularies, and Updated Indexes	Books	4	64	65	N	N	A Great Supplement to Other Grammars	This is an attractive and well organized grammar of the Greek of the LXX. The introduction is a 24-page essay on the history of the LXX in which they show the Letter of Aristeas to be the principle evidence for the early dating and standard conception of the origin of the LXX and then they subsequently show the Letter to be a forgery. Aside from this idiocy the book is a flawless presentation of LXX Greek TO THOSE WHO ALREADY KNOW KOINE GREEK. There is a 74-page grammar section in which the syntax of the LXX is covered and the unusual aspects of LXX morphology are given attention. It is not a full grammar for those who do not know the Greek language, so Old Testament scholars-to-be still have to learn to read the New Testament first. I recommend Mounce's Basics of Biblical Greek as a true starter. The remaining 207 pages are basically a graded reader. Several of the more famous OT stories are rendered here with extensive explanatory footnotes at the bottom of every page. The method is really excellent. The syntax section is in a reference format and is not intended to introduce Greek grammar to those who do not know it. If you can already read the New Testament and want some good insight into the quirks of the LXX, then this book is for you.	2000-11-13
US	52069428	R1U2G5DQDJAJ0M	0271016159	545778913	The First Historians: The Hebrew Bible and History	Books	2	26	63	N	Y	Based on a Faulty Foundation	While artfully written and scientifically organized and referenced (thereby preventing me from giving only one star), This book, though trying to advance the idea that historiography began with the Hebrews and not the Greeks, is operating within the framework of thinking created by humanistic German bible scholars of decades ago. The cornerstone of the book is Martin Noth's adaptation of Julius Wellhausen's Documentary Hypothesis, which states that the Torah and Early Prophets (Genesis through Kings) is a patchwork of collected traditions that has nothing to do with traditional notions of authorship or revelation. Wellhausen synthesized the idea that Torah was a conflation of 4 separate documents from various stages of the Israelites' invention of their religion, while Noth claimed that Deuteronomy through Kings was all written as one document as a forgery to prop up the reign of King Josiah. Though Halpern in this book is attempting to find critical historical method in the compilation of the alleged forgery of King Josiah, he is operating on the foundations of Wellhausen and Noth, whose ideas sprang from perceived problems in the structure of the Hebrew text, which themselves sprang from a complete ignorance of Semitic poetic and prose structures. Since the publications of their ideas, doublets (duplications and 'retellings' of certain segments of text), the main 'difficulty' they found in the text, have been found in all types of Semitic literature (even the Greek New Testament) and are now considered to be proper Semitic style, rather than evidence that multiple sources were cut and pasted together. So while Halpern is trying to advance some interesting ideas, he is basically engaged in dialogue with a segment of the academic society which has not yet learned to abandon these faulty principles of analyzing the structure of ancient Semitic literature. This book should be avoided on that basis.	2000-11-05
US	52069428	R1YOC24AKLM27J	0875592147	208762435	The Complete English-Hebrew, Hebrew-English Dictionary (5 Vols.)  (Hebrew and English Edition)	Books	4	24	24	N	Y	The biggest source of Hebrew words available	To those in America, this set of volumes is the most complete they will ever run across. The dictionary is well organized and has every word you will ever need. I did not give it 5 stars because I felt more effort could have been made to provide example sentences in order to get meaning from context. It is otherwise flawless.	2000-11-05
US	52069428	R2QYU30RZ1O0T7	0915957760	980545546	The Meaning of the Holy Qur'an (English, Arabic and Arabic Edition)	Books	4	60	66	N	Y	An Update of Jusuf Ali's Edition	This is a very well put together book. The Arabic and English print is very easy to read, and transliterated text is both easy to read and accurate to the sounds of the Arabic. (The Arabic Koran is left in the Arabic alphabet.) On each page there is a column of Arabic text and its English translation is set next to it in a column of its own. At the bottom there are Jusuf Ali's notes, which are very extensive and excellently cross-referenced. At the beginning of each Sura is commentary by Jusuf Ali which sheds light on the historical situation of the Sura as well as commentary on its meaning. The Koran, because it is smaller and subsequently less complete than the Bible, often requires the reader to endlessly sift through the voluminous literature of the Hadith and Sunna in order to properly understand its Suras. This volume does much to bring the meaning of the Koran to individuals who are not yet full-fledged scholars of Islam. I would have given this work 5 stars, but this edition is actually an alteration of Ali's work, having updated both the translation and the commentary. I feel that it is slightly dishonest to put a man's name on a work after altering it after his death. But the product itself is nearly flawless.	2000-11-05
US	52069428	R3T03O2X2REX2K	0140447210	488915933	The Epic of Gilgamesh: A New Translation (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	52	54	N	Y	A good book	Not having read scores of Gilgamesh translations, I really don't know how many stars to give this one, but I am very happy with it. In addition to giving a 'complete' version, mainly from Standard Babylonian texts from the Nineveh library but supplemented from other sources (even Hittite editions) for the sake of having a complete story, the book publishes in separate chapters, older, more fragmentary sources. Even Sumerian versions are covered. Also, in the beginning is an excellent treatment of the history of the rebirth of the Gilgamesh epic and the state of cuneiform translation and research in general. No speculation about the epic on literary or religious levels is given. George doesn't bother to tell us about the literary or historical relationship of Gilgamesh to the bible, nor does he try to use the epic to define for us Mesopotamian religion. He is simply interested in providing a good translation and is very thorough and scientific in cataloguing his sources and judgment calls, yet he hands us a lively and fluid English text.	2000-11-05
US	52069428	R33P53W8B4MIR5	0931464005	351378452	Septuagint and Modern Study	Books	3	17	17	N	Y	Wonderful and Wonderfully out of Date	This book is the best introduction to the issues involving the Septuagint that I have run across. Unfortunately, it was written in the Sixties, before the wealth of information provided by the Dead Sea Scrolls began to be considered by the community of biblical scholars. And the DSS rewrite the story of the Septuagint. Unfortunately, the lack of another comprehensive introduction keep this book on the required reading list. Just don't think your understanding of the LXX is sufficient after reading this book. You will still need to delve into the writings of Emmanuel Tov and others, though they are not intended for the beginner.	2000-11-05
US	52069428	RLGYATD3WLSNN	0310232112	179234898	Basics of Biblical Greek Grammar	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	The Best Grammar	Having studied German, Arabic, Akkadian, Hebrew (in modern and ancient forms), and several Aramaic dialects in addition to Greek, I feel that I should say that this intro grammar is not only the best New Testament Greek grammar there is, but it is the best intro grammar that I have every seen for any language that I have studied. And I have used scores of them written in both English and German. Huehnergard's Akkadian grammar comes in second. Though Mounce's techniques are not fully applicable to all the world's languages, every author of any intro grammar for an ancient language should adopt as much of his methodology as possible.	2000-11-04
US	52069428	R35XIJPHGQWC7A	080184312X	469930426	An Aramaic Bibliography: Part I: Old, Official, and Biblical Aramaic (Publications of The Comprehensive Aramaic Lexicon Project) (Pt.1)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Very Thorough	This book is a listing of every Old Aramaic inscription, papyrus, stele, or any other sort of writing found before the date of its publication. It is VERY thorough. Only short inscriptions of a few words are printed in  this book (in the quadrat script). Larger inscriptions and texts are simply  noted with the museum that posesses them, any printed editions that have  been made, any translations that have been printed, and any scientific  articles and monographs that have discussed them. The book is well suited  to hardcore researchers and students wishing to build their own libraries  of Aramaic material, but it is not simply a selection of texts that a  student can practice reading. The book lists great numbers of such  anthologies however.	1999-08-23
US	52069428	R1RCSGVXQ6ZKLJ	0226323994	387226633	The Babylonian Genesis: The Story of Creation	Books	4	55	60	N	N	Good overview for the uninitiated.	The book is not intended for students of Akkadian as there is no cuneiform or transcripted Akkadian. Everything is in translation. The book centers around the Enuma Elish (the biggest creation account), but has many other  smaller creation legends. There is a synopsis of the Elish as well as  various theories about its dating, composition, etc. There is also a  lengthy (58 page) article showing parallels to the Old Testament creation  account. The author does a good job of being objective, but leans toward  showing the uniqueness of the Genesis account and contrasts it quite a bit  against the remaining semitic literature.	1999-07-21
US	52069428	R9AW8FIK9AK7D	9004106146	486062975	A Grammar of the Ugaritic Language (HANDBOOK OF ORIENTAL STUDIES/HANDBUCH DER ORIENTALISTIK) (English and Ugaritic Edition)	Books	3	18	18	N	Y	When they said &quot;reference work&quot;, they meant it.	The book seems to be for people who already know Ugaritic and just want a comprehensive reference, assyriologist types who already know several semitic languages and just want to be able to formulate opinions about  Ugaritic, etc.  The book is NOT suitable for someone who just wants to use  it to learn the language.  Normally, I am not afraid to use reference books  as text books as I am used to making my own lesson plans and the like, but  this book does not even have a glossary. The texts in the back are provided  in Latin transliteration, so there is no way to familiarize one's self with  the cuneiform alphabet other than completely self devised excercises or  aquiring cuneiform texts from other (probably comparably expensive)  sources.  The book is a fantastic reference, however, and makes wonderful  efforts to make Ugaritic useful to scholars of Biblical Hebrew, showing how  Ugaritic has possibly shed light on a number of Biblical passages and  constructions.  As a reference, the book is excellent, but there is no  glossary of linguistic terms, so if you do not know what a voiceless  aspirated labio-dental fricative phoneme or a jussive or cohortative is,  you may need a dictionary.  Most terms will be familiar to those who have  studied Biblical Hebrew though.  Overall, the work is for scholars and  quite a good treatment of the language, but even a scholar will havbe  dificulty relying on this book to learn the language.  Excellent reference  work.  Nothing more.  As a reference, I would give 4 stars, but lack of  thought about how they could make the book more suitable for a wider  variety of uses (a glossary of Ugaritic vocabulary and more involvement  with the cuneiform) forced me to knock it down a star.	1998-12-28
