US	52079418	R3VAMHL3GM9C2Z	0758203594	207643662	Wilde Thing	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Erotically charged, but too short on story for me	It's the story of two people who had lost at love unexpectedly finding it in each other.  Both Steve Wilde and Liz Adams have been married before, and both marriages ended - his in divorce 6 years ago, hers in the death of her `bad boy' husband before she could tell him she'd begun divorce proceedings.  Liz owns a coffee shop, and Steve is a recent but now regular customer - he rides a Harley and wears denim and leather.  On the surface, another bad boy.  But both have been fantasising about the other.  Now Liz needs help.  Her cousin, who works as a phone sex operator, has turned up missing.  And that's when she finds out Steve is a PI.<br />There is a lot of sex in this book, from almost the instant the two central characters meet outside the coffee house.  A broad theme of erotic fantasy runs through the book, as Liz takes on a job in the same phone sex company to assist in locating her cousin.  The perspective shifts between Liz, who tells the bulk of the story, and Steve, but I don't feel we gain anything by it.  For the most part, they are thinking the same thing.  Also, the timescale of two people thinking they each are wanting a temporary fling, with the excitement and freedom that brings them, to a few days later both desperately wanting permanency, just wasn't convincing to me.  <br />The meat of the book is the sex, not the storyline.  If hot is your thing then this is a good story for you.  It's a well written book that flows well and the chemistry between Liz and Steve sets the pages alight.	2003-10-08
US	52079418	R3FJWGHNP1LL4N	0505525410	374282833	The Star Princess (Star Series, Book 3)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Earth dweller meets Vash in wilful clash	Sequentially a direct sequel to Star Prince, this book tells the story of Ian Hamilton's headstrong sister Ilana.  The events of Star Prince are several months behind them, but Ilana cannot forget Prince Ché Vedla.  For his part, Ché has found himself equally fixated on his Crown Prince's sister, despite having an empire of his own to look to.  As one of the original Eight Houses, the Vedla's are proudest of all at being able to trace their unbroken line of kings back to the origins of the current Federation. Ché is expected to marry a Princess of the highest credentials, Vash through and through.  And as eldest son and heir, it is an expectation he himself holds.  <br />As Ian Hamilton married his intended, to save face Ché's advisors have suggested that Ché marry first.  Seeing the wisdom (in Vash terms) of this advice, Ché agrees.  But while they are seeking his bride, Ché plans a vacation - to Earth.  There he plans to seek out Illana and purge her from his system.<br />And so a tradition-filled alien Vash Prince comes to Earth to meet destiny in the form of a tempestuous, adventurous, fun filled, unpredictable and definitely NOT true Vash Princess Ilanna Hamilton.  <br />Ilanna is not the only one to like happy endings.  This book continues a series that I can see might carry on in the future, but could tie up the ends of the stories of the current generation.  I was very pleased that Grant had written Illana's story, as I liked her a lot when I read `Star Prince'.  Although largely predictable in terms of plot, Grant has written an enjoyable story of two opposites attracting, and has taken the effort of considering how two such people might be able to join their very different cultures together to the benefit of both.  I had trouble accepting Illana's acceptance of Ché's suggestion that they marry which seemed a little rushed to me, but I accept that in terms of the pace of the book it was necessary.<br />I feel that readers should try `Star Prince' first to get the most out of this book.  Having done so myself, I enjoyed Ché and Ilanna's tumble into love.	2003-10-08
US	52079418	R2YGP589YBH688	0449006840	258547843	Hide and Seek (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 3)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Dangerously Wright	Adventure story featuring another of the Wright brothers (stands alone from the others of the series, but I think reader benefits from knowing of his brothers and sister).  This time Kyle, the intelligent doctor turned spy, is about to see the culmination of 4 years work.  His `boss', international crime lord Montero, is about to go down.  Montero has had Kyle working to manufacture the smallpox virus, which Montero plans to sell to the highest bidder.  But Kyle isn't the one doing the manufacturing by chance.  <br />Co-incidentally, Delanie Eastman's sister has been kidnapped by Montero - or so Delanie (rightfully - although it's for his mother's project) believes.  Even more co-incidentally, Delanie and Kyle had a brief but brutal fling directly before Kyle began working for Montero.  Neither knows the other's agenda now that they meet again.   Against this background of distrust and danger, each must try to achieve their own objective and attempt to put aside the strong attraction they have for the other.  Oh yes, and get out of the compound alive.<br />High action and drama abound here in the very nature of the rather fantastical plot.  That Kyle is on one side super intelligent, and the other a dangerous mercenary type (in image terms - he's one of the good guys) makes for a very attractive if highly-unlikely-in-real-life hero.  Hey, the plot doesn't shout `real' to me either.  And that's really not the point.<br />Delanie is very likeable, and both characters have a determination to do their best for their family (Delanie) and country (Kyle). As the attraction between them leaps high once again, the erotic aspects of the story come to play in a suitably highly charged atmosphere.  Phew!  Quite a story.	2003-09-05
US	52079418	R3NJZ2C79DULBD	0380819635	813843722	Lost in Your Arms (Governess Bride, Book 5)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	When a bad marriage turns good	Enid MacLean hasn't seen her husband for 9 years, and isn't particularly worried that this is so as after 3 months of marriage he ran off and left her to not only fend for herself, but work off his debts too.  When she hears that he has been badly injured, she leaves her current charge (Enid looks after the terminally ill) to do her duty by her husband in taking care of him.  She arrives to find him almost unrecognisable in his injuries, except for his exceptional eyes, and in very poor health due to the quality of his care.  Enid almost surprises herself in her doggedness in determining the best care for him, and in the period of recuperation comes to care for her husband as she barely remembers doing even in the early days of their marriage.  For his part, her patient has lost his memory from his injuries, although as it happens, not for good.  But all is not as it seems, not even the man she is nursing back to health.  And danger stalks them both.<br />Predictable basic plot, but Dodd works it well and this story is very enjoyable.  The threat to them both seems very real and immediate, and the bonds that grow between patient and caregiver stem from the strong characteristics of each of the central characters.  The mystery of who is threatening them I certainly found to be hard to anticipate, and kept me guessing.  The quandry Enid faces in particular touched an emotional chord in me.<br />This is one of the books featuring the Throckmortons from `In My Wildest Dreams' and thus the rest of the Governess series, but it is not necessary to have read the others to enjoy this, as the storylines do not touch except for 2 (admittedly rather important) characters.  Nonetheless it would not spoil the sequence of events to read this one first - it might even arouse your curiosity enough to try one of the others.	2003-09-05
US	52079418	R7LCET1Z1QGO7	074343787X	654401223	The Devil You Know (Rutledge Family, Book 3)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Fresh Regency Romance	Something a little different to this Regency Romance, and that would be the female central character - Frederica d'Avillez and her very unconventional family.  Freddie has just been dumped by her beau after her first London season, and is now convinced she has lost her chance at marriage.  To console herself and on a burst of passion on both sides, she and Bentley Rutledge, a close friend of her cousin and well known rogue, have sex.<br />The next day, Bentley appears to do a runner, but even a rouge knows what is right and unknown to Freddie, Bentley does try to do the right thing.  Something he's somewhat unused to doing, but which he feels compelled to do, and not because it's expected of him.  Indeed what is expected is exactly what Freddie thinks he's done - disappeared into the night.  So we have Bentley expecting to hear an answer from Freddie, and Freddie determined to soldier on.  Then Freddie falls pregnant.  Her reaction and that of her family is as you would expect for the time, but unusually they all accept that marriage is not necessarily the option that needs to be taken.  Freddie's felt out of place for much of her life, being an orphan and illegitimate, and this is what Bentley has to use when he discovers her condition to manoeuvre Freddie into marriage. Now two people who don't know quite how things went wrong need to set about finding a way to live happily together.<br />There are some deep issues to be resolved for both Freddie and Bentley, regardless of their marriage, and yet they need to be worked through for the sake of their furture.  The story is told from both perspectives, although mostly from Freddie's point of view, but surprisingly the one with the most to work through is in fact Bentley.  Not only he but also his family have to work through the psychological and physical damage that he has endured.<br />The two families are as important to the overall plot as Freddie and Bentley themselves.  Their families form the beginnings of their characters and perspectives on the world and how each will relate to the world and those in it, and it is clear that Carlyle considered this very carefully when crafting this work.  For me, these factors raised this book to a cut above the standard Regency, and made it all the more enjoyable.	2003-08-18
US	52079418	R2P47FHSKB6HCB	0553584758	793314069	Devlin's Luck (Sword of Change, Book 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Strong heroic central character	I loved this book.  It is a combination of fantasy and action.  The central character is Devlin Stonehand, who has come to the capital city of the kingdom of Jorsk to try for the job of Chosen One.  It involves a trial of the Gods, where if he is not accepted as the next Chosen One the applicant will wind up dead.  If he is chosen, he will be placed under a Gaes which will compel him to act when the Kingdom is threatened, no matter the cost including that of his life.<br />Of course, Devlin becomes the next Chosen One and for the remainder of the book, he fights the good fight against both physical threats to a declining kingdom, and also against possible betrayal from the kings own Council.<br />The highlight of the book for me is Devlin himself.  He is so stuffed with honour and heroism, and genuinely has trouble understanding why the average man and woman are not as he is  ready and willing to fight for his family and friends, and to die for what he believes in.  For most of the book he actively seeks his death due to events in his recent past, which have lead him to trying for the role of Chosen One to his countries conquerors in the first place.  Other characters are necessarily less well drawn, with the exception of minstrel Stephen.  Those that are featured are mostly warriors in the form of guards and other fighters, which Devlin clearly admires about them, and those that first come to see the truly admirable (in terms of the needs of the Kingdom) Chosen One.  Devlin carries this book, but he is strong enough to do so.  Not perfect, probably an uncomfortable person to be around if he were flesh and bone, but a perfectly heroic character.	2003-08-18
US	52079418	R2Z54JGV5BU8YR	0505525097	900295333	Aphrodite's Secret	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Love in the Deep	The continuation of Kenner's series of superhero Protectors based in part on the myths of the Greek Gods.  Here we meet Jason Murphy, who has the ability to talk to fish (a talent in great demand, I'm sure) and turns into a dolphin when underwater.  Seven years ago he left pregnant girlfriend Lane to deal with his father - the universally reviled Hieronymous.  Instead of defeating dad, Jason was captured by him and has spent over six years in a fish tank, being interrogated by good old pop.  Having eventually escaped, Jason finds he's been demoted to second class Protector and like his half brother Mordichai is viewed with suspicion by the Elders and Council.  Unfairly, because unlike his brother, Jason knows where his loyalties lie.<br />Lane, sister of Taylor from Aphrodite's Girdle, had no idea who Jason really was, and so far as she is concerned, Jason left her when he found out he was to be a father, never to be heard from again.  Her son Davy is now the focus of her life, her little genius whom she doesn't realise is half Protector and whose intellect, like Hieronymous, is his principle power.  Davy is about to turn seven, when his powers will blossom and for a moment those powers will be vulnerable.  In the meanwhile, Hieronymous has come up with an evil plan to add to his own intellect ...<br />This story is another Kenner gem, and like the others in the series is told with wit and originality.  The humour keeps the story grounded, as does the relationships between many of the characters, including that of Hieronymous and his sons.  There are very `human' issues dealt with - jealousy, loyalty, love, trust - even for those with super powers.  Although it's not my favourite book in the series, it's a good addition to it and advances the plot for more characters than just the central two.	2003-08-18
US	52079418	R2M4S0LS5W7HCV	0758203187	112368527	Behind Closed Doors (The McCloud Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Clever, hot and perceptive	A good combination of thriller and very erotic romance.  There's a lot of sex in this book, so if you object to such, then this is not a tale for you.  However sex is used here as much to show how the two central characters change in the course of events, from power plays to tenderness, touching on punishment and eventually even forgiveness.  In this, as well as the quality of writing, McKenna makes this about more than sex, and brings in something of the human condition, as well as drawing in other themes and subtexts of the novel.  Thus, although plentiful, the erotic nature of the book actually adds meaning to the relationship and thus integrates into the story as a whole.<br />As for the thriller side, there is certainly no `mystery' here - we know whodunnit and why the various characters are taking the actions that they are.  The two central characters are Raine Cameron, who has recently begun working for identified baddie Victor Lazar, and Seth Mackey, whose brother had been killed 10 months prior to the opening of the book.  All that drives Seth now is the need for vengeance.  He likens himself to a cyborg - focused, emotionless and with a single purpose.  To this end he has extensively bugged the house of Lazar's mistress (Lazar being involved in his brothers death), which is now Raine's house.  Raine is actually related to Lazar, and blames him (rightly) for the death of her father.  She has been on the run from Lazar for 13 years, and considers herself to be a bit of a coward - the shy, retiring, unnoticeable type.  Now convinced that she needs to find out more of her fathers death, she has `infiltrated' Lazars firm, supposedly anonymously - almost a joke as Lazar knows exactly who she is.  Seth, for his part, has been watching Raine with fascination, becoming more and more attracted to her.  And now the plan moves along, as he seeks to make contact with Lazar, and through him with Lazar's new assistant.  Both of them seeking knowledge and retribution, neither sure of who they can trust, both unable to deny the attraction they feel for the other.  An attraction watched with interest by many...<br />It's a very well thought out story, containing many elements.  Revenge, hate, manipulation, rage, and the seamer side of life are definitely a part of it, but so too is a great deal of warmth and `family' feeling.  Seth on his side has the memories of his brother, and his developing relationship with the McCloud brothers (who I hope will have their own stories in the future).  Raine brings her historical relationship with her parents, and her ongoing complex feelings about Lazar.  There are others very central to the book too - Novak and Riggs whose roles become important in the telling of the story.  There is no `mystery', but a great deal of human nature, as characters change and develop as they deal with very real danger and cope with the shifting nature of reality.  I particularly liked the triangle of Raine, Seth and Lazar's roles as they played against each other.<br />Overall I enjoyed the book very much, particularly as a study of human characteristics and relationships, and indeed and how we as individuals affect each other and touch each others lives, for better or worse.  I liked very much that this `erotic thriller' was deeper than a surface story, and that the characters within were constantly evolving not only as they grew and changed within themselves, but also in their dealings each other.	2003-08-18
US	52079418	R3LHOIQGUS0CLW	0505525275	267815055	The Loving Daylights	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Funny Bond take-off	While belonging firmly in the Romance genre, this series is a take-off of the Bond books, and here we have the absent minded professor type, who designs and tests a variety of gadgets, including the tampon trackers, shrink-wrap condoms (ow!) and vibrator missiles.  Seems clear what Jane Spyrus' (Spies R Us?) mind has been on.<br />But the tampon tracker is being tested in a most immediate manner when Jane's neighbour and almost-friend Edie (if Jane had time for friends) goes missing.  Cue for one gorgeous brother to show up, and Jane, her retired spy gran and Abel to climb into Jane's specialised van and zoom off to save the girl.<br />Realisim flies out the window here, this book is strictly fun.  But romance with a comic touch is a Lynsay Sands speciality, and this is a great example.  There are plenty of laughs - I particularly enjoyed the prototype demonstration - and some great gadgets.  The evil kidnappers are a good threat for Jane, Abel and Gran to go up against.  I didn't always agree with the handling of the romance between Jane and Abel - particularly the sojourn to a B&B which was a bit clumsy as a `time out for sex' moment - but overall I found this book to be a wonderfully wacky comic story.	2003-08-18
US	52079418	R36OLOVHTZA8ND	0505525240	496362927	Shadow Crossing	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Celie's story	We've read of Celie in earlier books of the Shadower series, and here at last the young girl is grown up and gets a story of her own.<br />Celie had spent much of her youth as a smuggler, and although she's gone all respectable, she misses the rush of danger and risk.  She's got her own craft now, and the deliveries she makes are scheduled and routine.  But her longing for adventure is about to be answered in the form of Rurick.  He's a prince of a guy, and has been artificially cloned in the form of a replica android, as his life is one of risk.  Celie is drawn into his world, and they go through much adventuring together.  But Celie's life has never been easy, and there is no way she will fit into his.  She's hiding a devastating secret - or at least she thinks she is - but more than that, unlike android Max, she's just not built for royalty.  She has to be true to herself, and Celie can't see herself fitting into Rurick's lifestyle.<br />For those that have read the earlier Shadower novels, here's a chance to read Celie and even Raven's stories.  I found that while it rounded the series off nicely, it's the least favourite of the series as much of the dangers faced by the Shadowers has been overcome.  But it's nice to have all the ends tied up, and I'm glad Celie's story has been told.	2003-08-18
US	52079418	R2GIW0YM4WVKZO	0505525402	834515252	Unearthed	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Classic futuristic plot with original elements	A star ship captain, a prince, a robot and an abducted earth woman are the basic players in this futuristic romance.  Cohl Travers has identified Tess MacKenzie's voice as the element to save his father, who is incidentally the ruler of Cohl's planet, and rather than drop in and explain things to Tess, he's abducted her.  Although shocked and unwilling initially, basically Tess comes around with the help of Cohl's mother, and buys into the idea.  Just in time to be abducted again by the baddie of the piece, who wants the amulet and the voice that will release and activate it for himself.  Cohl takes off after Tess, who instinctively relies on him to do so.  Fair maiden is saved by handsome adventurer, and now they're in this thing together.<br />Yes, there's a lot that is classic in this futuristic romance, but that it not to say that this tale gets tired.  The action moves along at a good pace, there's elements of danger throughout, and there is enough heat between Cohl and Tess to keep interest fresh.  It's not a groundbreaker, but it is a good example of it's type.	2003-08-18
US	52079418	R1AOBZDQUSQQX4	0671578707	628083859	The Spirit Ring	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Magic, mages and the might of right	Fiametta Beneforte is a metal worker, the unofficial apprentice to her father, who is also a master mage.  Unfortunately, as a female although she has the talent, Fiametta is not in the ordinary run of things likely to be acknowledged as a mage herself, although she has the talent and the skill.  But the usual run of things is interrupted when a diplomatic negotiation turns to betrayal and the town is subsequently under siege.  Fiametta and her father escape, but her father soon dies.<br />Thur Oches is a miner with a talent for finding things lost and for metal, plus a skill in forgery (not faking - heating and casting metal).  His brother has obtained an apprenticeship under a master goldsmith and mage, Beneforte.  He travels towards the town to encounter Fiametta on the way, who gives him news of the Master's death.  Thur and Fiametta have a common need to return to the town, and together with the help of several monks, they work for retribution and justice, to save the town and the rest of their livelihood.<br />It's a folk story, full of magic, evil and unusual beings in the form of the kobolds.  Simple, uncomplicated story combining known Italy / Europe / religious influence with magery and fantasy.  A skilful blend that results in a pleasing satisfying tale of a band of a few good people with right on their side, opposing a defined and evil threat.	2003-08-14
US	52079418	R3PG2PUJ4ORJP2	0451459407	962252105	Death Masks (Dresden Files)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	He's more than a long leather coat	The fifth in the Dresden Files pits our hero Harry Dresden, Chicago's only working Wizard - well, the only one in the Yellow Pages at any rate - against the demands of the other world, the underworld and those of his day job as a Private Investigator.  The opening chapter sets up nicely the simultaneous conflicting pressures that Harry's supernatural friends and enemies place on him.  And by the second chapter, there has been an attempt on his life and he's been given notice that the Red Court is threatening not only his own life, but that of those he cares about.  Top that off with his human friends and their demands, and a bad day gets that much worse.<br />All in a days work for Harry, but that's all the better for those of us following his adventures.  Here the central mystery is a couple of gruesome deaths and the theft of the Shroud (that covered Christ?s body until he was resurrected).  As events move forward it becomes clear that both are linked.  As usual there is much more to the book than just mystery - fantasy, adventure and an element of romance as Susan turns up in Chicago again also take precedence from time to time.  This serves to heighten or slow the pace as required to drive the plot forward.  There are no new threats here: it is essentially the Red Court as we have met in the previous 2 books of the series - and the mob has it?s influence too.  However the danger Harry faces is very real, unrelenting as the story is told over just a few days, and from all sides.  This makes for a fast paced, action packed style that any who have read the series will recognise and appreciate.<br />While the majority of the players are those known already to Dresden file followers, Butcher has not fallen into the trap of making his story inaccessible to potential new readers.  Past events influencing the story are briefly described, but in enough detail that the book need not be read as part of the series, although as a Dresden junkie I do think that because eventsare so skilfully handled in the ups and downs of being Harry, the books would be best read in order.<br />I did find the ending of Death Masks left me feeling a bit down - the roller coaster ride of not only the dangers Harry faced but the various emotional storms carried me along and left me a little wrung out.  Also, although the danger has receded for a time, like the tide it is inevitable it will resurge again - there is more to follow and the threat is still out there.  Cool.	2003-08-14
US	52079418	R1X5A221BIFUM4	0425186865	171452887	The Forest Lord (The Fane, Book 1)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Kinard tries something a bit different	Kinard combines fantasy romance with a little Regency style, and has produced a story about Hern, the Forest Lord, one of the Fane who, in order to return home, must produce a human-fairy offspring with a human woman.  Eden Fleming is the woman he chooses, as her father has broken the generations-long trust between the Forest Lord and the Fleming family.  He blackmails Eden's father, and poses as a human to seduce her.  At the almost last moment, Eden discovers the deception.  She rejects `Cornelius' and flees to a new life in London.  Six years later, Eden is back at her hereditary home, Hartsmere.  Her husband has recently died leaving her in reasonably dire straits.  She and her aunt, each with their own agendas, set up house and Eden starts trying to set her house in order.  Meanwhile the Forest Lord has been asleep for 6 years, thoroughly disgusted with the Flemings and humankind in general.  He is woken and told Eden is back, whereupon he determines to make her pay for his losing his chance at returning home, and meets her as `Hartley' - a man of the `servant' class who seemingly shows Eden nothing but contempt.  But even the supernatural cannot escape from their fate, and it would seem he and Eden have more between them than bad feeling - not the least being a six year old boy.  The half human son who is his way home...<br />This is a well constructed and well written story, and I liked the use of the natural world reflecting how things are between Hartley and Eden.  However, neither of the central characters were particularly attractive to me - Eden with her short sightedness, her complete self involvement and her always being aware of class to the nth degree.  Hartley/Conelius/The Forest Lord is little better, as the Fane cannot love and the only emotions he has at first are hate, a drive to get home, and a calculated manipulation of the Flemings.  I became involved in the story mainly because of Donal, their son, but I'm not sure this is enough to carry the book for me.  Also, Eden's immediate attachment is unconvincing, given what we know of her character.  Ultimately it wasn't enough for me, however the writing was strong and well thought out.  If you don't have my problem with the central characters, you'll enjoy this blend of fantasy, and historical romance.	2003-08-14
US	52079418	R39JFQF4ZSRA1C	0441010512	149624845	Club Dead (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 3)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Real people (if supernatural)	Club Dead is the third in the Sookie Stackhouse series for Ms Harris, following Living Dead in Dallas and Dead After Dark.  I think it can be read on its own, as references to earlier books are fully explained, but why not read the earlier two - they will deepen your enjoyment of the third in the series.<br />Sookie and vampire boyfriend Bill have been together for almost a year now.  Although things between them are by no means perfect - even asside from the fact they are not the same species - Sookie loves Bill.  But one night he announces that hes about to take a trip, and she just knows he's lying to her, even hampered by her inability to read his thoughts (and those of any vampire, which makes them a restful race to Sookie for that if nothing else).  Things go from bad to worse as Bill goes missing, suspected dead.  Finally dead.  And he's betrayed her in the worst way - lie upon lie.<br />Sookie is drawn by events and by her own feeling for Bill to search for him, undead or really dead.  And here she enters ever deeper the life of vampires, Were and Shifters.  She?s seemingly constantly in danger, surrounded by those she doesn't know if she can trust (okay mostly Eric) and bombarded by badness.  Yet Sookie seldom looses her sense of humor, her ability to self deprecate, and I find this very engaging in her.  Her own telepathic abilities clearly make her attractive to a class of people where for most of her life she's simply been regarded as crazy.<br />New Alcides is one that adds his own attractive flavour: in the unnatural world, he offers a possible future to Sookie that she finds almost irresistible.  This very human ability to be attracted by options, even while wishing to remain 'faithful' is also very appealling to me as a reader.  Sookie is by no means a perfect heroic figure, altough she does very heroic deeds she is not without fear, and possibly getting it wrong.<br />If you are into Vampires, gothic, mystery or humour, give this book a read.  I think that something in it will appeal to almost every reader.	2003-07-23
US	52079418	R2LHXWTKD49782	0843951702	243266322	The Only One	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A triad of writers each writing what they are best known for	Christine Feehan does another Carpathian tale - Dark Descent.  Triain is another of the hunters sent out so many centuries ago when the fate of the Carpathians was first anticipated by their prince.  Traian's lifemate is Joie Sanders who is a bodyguard and security expert.  She comes well armed and prepared to defend herself and those she loves.  They meet in the Carpathian mountains, which is a nice return, although much of the story is set in an extensive cave system, or in Joie's hotel.  Joie is sure she is going crazy, because after an `astral' meeting on her part, she keeps hearing a voice in her head.  Triain is delighted to find his lifemate, although presently taken up with fighting a master vampire.  Until Joie comes looking for her delusion, bringing her family too.  The trio of humans are great, their relationship very strong and well developed in a short time.  Gary (from Dark Magic) reappears here, and I was very glad to continue his byline in the connected tale.  A great, if short, addition to the series.<br />The Star Queen by Susan Grant jumps into the formation of the alliance that forms the Galatic Council and the writers of the Treatise of Trade (used so cleverly in `Star Prince').  I have enjoyed that a number of Grant's sequels (Contact and this story) have been prequels, each going back a step - we have the foreknowledge of our dealings with the ancestors and what they have wrought to add to the enjoyment of the struggle to get there.<br />The premise of Susan Squires `Sacrilege' is a very interesting one.  It treats vampirism and the need for blood in a religious way so that the blood lust can be overcome or at least managed.  Magda has been one of the worst, but after over 800 years of tutelage, has emerged without wreaking havoc and drinking human blood for that time.  Pietr, one of the Old Ones, was her tutor.  She had long known she loves him, but it was only when she was sent out from Mirso Monastery into the world once more that he realises that he loves her too.  Self flagellation and a series of essentially tortures follow, but ultimately he follows her into the world, casting aside at least a portion of his vows to go to her.  But his own mentor is not best pleased with the defection of one of his brightest stars, and sets a horror on his trail.<br />If you like any of the above authors, you'll enjoy their stories.  I did not like them all equally - The Star Queen seemed to have great pieces of the story left out, constrained by it's short length, which was a shame.  And Sacrilege did not have enough `good times' to counterbalance the pain - for example what Pietr went through before making his decision to leave the monastery.  But I would have loved for them all to have been book length, and think that especially the last two suffered because of the page constraint.  This is not to say I do not recommend the book - each author does her bit well, exhibiting in each case more of the reason why regular readers follow their work.	2003-07-14
US	52079418	R3QSUPZ5IQB0EP	1582343586	378018122	Hey Nostradamus!: A Novel (Coupland, Douglas)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Return to top form for Doug	My fav Copeland book is still `Microserfs' despite its inevitable dating, but that's cos I work in IT and it's all so true!<br />Nonetheless I really enjoyed this book, in what I regard as a return to form for Copeland.  It's packed with insights, investigations and thumbnail homilies.  The little gems that hold time still and examine life or self for a moment or two, before releasing hold and letting the story fly free once more.  The book is structured in 4 unequal parts told in the voices of Cheryl, Jason, Heather and Reg.  Cheryl & Jason's parts have over 10 years between them, but Jason, Heather & Reg altogther have only 3-4.<br />With such a Copeland-type story, it is about many things.  Themes such as religion, loneliness, love, nature vs nuture, rage, the randomness of life, and the human condition are built into the story of how many, many lives are affected by a cataclysmic event - in this case the gunning down of students in their high school cafeteria by 3 fellow students, and the impact that has on students, their families and those that are in their lives long after the event.  The strongest voice is Jason's, both because he has the longest section, and because the event had such an impact on him for so many years.<br />It's a strong story, without being preachy.  It raises many questions and doesn't provide many answers. Like Cheryl's stroll to her car that morning, it provides a brief moment of perfect clarity of vision, even as in the next moment it can be incredibly sad.  Such is life, death, religion, family, loss, and the awful things that human beings can do to each other.  Those little trueisms can be comforting, or a hard reflective mirror.<br />Very accessible, very readable - a book that will touch you, move you, but perhaps most tellingly, make you think.	2003-07-08
US	52079418	R1PJETH7Z91VMP	0425190722	884558463	Heart Thief (Celta's HeartMates, Book 2)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	What a fantastic sequel	Read `Heartmate' first, because it's such a good book and because both Rand and Danith also appear extensively in Heart Thief.  The story here is strong enough to stand on its own, but why not deepen your enjoyment by reading the first book.  I loved it in part because it stood up so well to it's predecessor.  We're still on the world of Celta, where psychic talent is called Flair and is so common that everyone in the history of Celta has had some degree of it.  Except for those like Ruis Elder, a Null, whose mere presence at best unravels and at worst destroys flair.  Imagine living - or even just surviving - in a world where you can't even do the simple things that everyone else can do, because no spells will work for you.  Everything becomes that much harder, that much more of a struggle.<br />We first met the rage filled Null very briefly in Heartmate, as he stole T'Ash's HeartGift.  Heart Thief is his story, as he is captured and brought to trial.  The reader finds out some of his awful history of being abused and cast out by those who should have sheltered him - his Family.  And now he is to be cast out Druida City, for sins that at least in part should not be attributed to him.  Ailim D'Silverfir has recently become Head of her Family.  She has great Flair in empathy, and is a Judge.  She and Ruis meet and she finds incredible relief in his Nullness - at last she can relax her mental shields and just experience life with her other five senses - a luxury she cannot normally allow herself.  But Ruis is supposed to be banished, and she is a Judge...<br />Although a sequel and sharing many characteristics, the story of Ruis and Ailim is very different from the earlier book.  Ruis is such a damaged, rage filled man, Ailim a woman who exudes calm.  Both of noble stock, and both very aware of that and the duties of Family which that entails, even as both in one degree or another are betrayed by their Family (whereas Rand and Danith each had none and longed for Family).  Ruis has an awful lot to work through as he finds his place in life, and in his world.  This part of the story is easily as touching as the romance that he finds with Ailim, and unusually the story is told probably more from his perspective than hers.  After all, he has the most to combat and to overcome: certainly his is the longest emotional journey.  But Ailim has her own hurdles to overcome too.  The Nullness is very different, and it is something I as a reader had to overcome - that there is no psychic bonding between the two central characters was a hurdle for me as a reader.  But there is no denying the strength of the story.  The Ship and the emergence of Ruis's technical talents, and the ultimate importance of his very Nullness to Celta was well done.  <br />And of course, the Fams... not to forget the Fams.  Even if they would let us.<br />Sometimes I found the pace a trifle slow, and wanted to urge Ruis and Ailim to get on with it as things got a very little bit repetitive.  This might be a niggle in me, and not the writing.  This book is also more overtly erotic than HeartMate, which might be a surprise to some readers.  The book closes with a peek at the next one - ah yes, one of the Fighting Holly's is about to meet his match.  Bring it on!	2003-07-08
US	52079418	R2EIRGOZG09GYG	0743436121	531654219	Diplomatic Immunity (Miles Vorkosigan Adventures)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Miles and family	I loved this book, as a continuation of a most excellent series and as a great story in itself.  It is a return to Miles at his eccentric best - getting into things he shouldn't, uncovering more pieces of an already terribly complicated puzzle, risking his life to save others, and eventually solving the mystery at considerable risk.  Familiar and new figures appear here, and Ekaterin, who I didn't really know would work as Lady Vorkosigan, has much more confidence in her role.  In my opinion she needed it - I wasn't sure at the end of `A Civil Campaign' that Ekaterin was right for the fearsomely brilliant Miles, but she really does understand him and how he works.  And is now strong enough to support him and even take over when need be.  I liked this book for that alone, but McMaster Bujold has woven together another complex, tightly written tale peopled with characters that make a fascinating read.  <br />I think by this stage in the series you should have read more than one of the Vorkisgan books proceeding this one, but I suppose it could be read as a stand alone tale, as references to Mile's former Dendarii career are brief - with the exception of the fact that Bel features throughout the book, in a new role.  However there are many such references, and there is no doubt that the back knowledge of events added to my reading.<br />Two family themes - Miles is expecting children of his own, and the ongoing collection of those that he regards as his family, blood ties or not.  When his life is in danger, there is now a real sensation of loss for Miles, and in a way (until it is dealt with) this interferes with his performance.   He has so much to lose, and with each family addition it grows even more...<br />The book ends on a real high, and I have the uncomfortable impression this may be Mile's last story!  No, please no!<br />Miles is 32.	2003-07-04
US	52079418	R1U984QJXK5VK7	0373835515	467682406	Impetuous	Books	3	18	18	N	N	The shy teacher and the brash businessman	Carlie McDaniels and Tyler Ramsay have known each other for some time - after all, his brother is married to her best friend.  But it is not until Carlie reveals her hidden self at a Halloween party that she really engages Tyler's interest.  And now, although he doesn't know who the mystery woman who got him all hot and bothered really is, Tyler can't seem to get mousy Carlie McDaniels out of his mind.<br />He's hot, he's well off, he's charming.  Everything Carlie is trying to hide from following on from a divorce from a man she perceives is just like him.  But Tyler is nothing like her ex-husband, and soon he sets about proving it to her...<br />Lori Foster is a prolific and talented writer of romance, and I always enjoy reading her stories.  This is no exception.  The highlights are the relationships between the four central characters - the Ramsay brothers, Carlie and her friend Brenda.  And Foster paints the picture of Carlie - damaged and hiding behind awful clothes and unflattering hairstyles and glasses, becoming someone who fades into the background and prefers to be unnoticed.  These feature more strongly than the usual Foster sizzle - this is not the most electrifying book I've read of Fosters possibly as the story was first released a few years ago.  It is instead a sweet and warm story that gradually leads you to the clear romantic conclusion.  Not that the spice isn't there, given how Carlie draws Tyler's attention in the first place.  <br />If you have a best friend you want to play matchmaker for, or if you hide your own light under a bushel, have a read.  You might recognise someone.	2003-07-02
US	52079418	R22HRZAZWIKVXH	0505525372	678465223	Spellbound in Seattle	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fantasy Romance sprinkled with Fun	This is the first book I've read by this author, but I'm now looking forward to the next.  What a good gauge of fantasy, romance and humour.  It is very difficult to write a story that combines the classic elements of romance and fantasy, with their natural inclination towards the dramatic, and the lighter aspects of a comical touch.  Anderson certainly succeeds with this one.<br />Petra W Field has moved to Seattle, a city hip deep in magic, although she has not a touch of magic herself, unless it is to make the magic of others a little screwy.  This the master wizard Vorador finds out when he's called in on an emergency mission to remove some blood from Petra's newly acquired rug.  Eventually they work out that the blood is from a (presumed) dead Amazon wizard, and the curse placed on it will not be removed (and hence neither will the blood) until her murderer is found.<br />Petra sure is a character - she's slightly wacky in that she's non-linear, she's lived with magic all her life and hence knows it well, and is aware of the effect she has on wizard's as a result of her mere presence.  Vorador is everything someone in top magical form should be - handsome as can be, good at what he does, talented and of course a little bit full of himself as a result.  Nothing like the non-linear to demolish a little arrogance, even as she sets him alight.<br />There's a cat that isn't, wizards, clones, pigs and a darn good mystery between these pages, as well as a clearly well thought out plot, a fun romance, a good bit of steam (largely unfulfilled until the end of the book, but there's plenty to keep the heat up along the way) and a large helping of teasing in both the passionate and comic senses.  It perhaps goes a little over the top in the last few pages, but was I found it easy to overlook this small flaw.   A successful blend of many elements has made a unique tale that sparkles.  I think this is a fabulous book, and an author to watch out for.	2003-06-17
US	52079418	R3S8P4SD4FFLEQ	0380802929	22185791	The Runaway Princess: Princess #1 (The Princess Series)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A case of mistaken identity	Fairy tale prince meets commoner story, told with Dodd's habitual skill.  Evangeline Scoffield  of East Litle Teignmouth, Cornwall hadn't had an easy life.  An orphan, she was fostered by a woman who, while not unkind, seemed more interested in learning than in caring for a young child.  Having come into an unexpected inheritance, Evangeline is revelling in the opportunity to LIVE for once, not just read and study about life.  She has come to France, near the Spanish border, and is having a fantastic time being mysteriously exotic.  Until, that is, she is mistaken for a Royal Princess by Crown Prince Danior of Baminia whose betrothed, Princess Ethelinda of Serephina, disappeared when but a child.  Their marriage has a prophecy attached, and it would appear that meeting the terms of the prophecy is the only way to keep their kingdoms together.  So Danior is determined to make events turn out for the better - the better being marriage and the unification of their kingdoms.  So determined that he kidnaps his `princess'.  Together they journey to Baminia, avoiding for the most part the efforts of Danior's renegade brother, who wants to ensure that the prophecy is not fulfilled.  And thus Danior and Evangeline, despite their misunderstandings, are drawn together as they run for their lives, and towards their future.<br />Total suspension of disbelief is required for this book - the orphan who can successfully masquerade as a princess, elements of magic and a 1,000 year old seer being just a few examples.  In this, the book is unlike any I have ready by this author.   However I found it an enjoyable tale, and although Danior's attitude towards commoners was irritating, it is one of the few realistic elements in the book and had to be so to make the threat to Evangeline's happiness real.  The sizzle between the two central characters was well developed, from the moment their eyes met until the conclusion of the book.  And events being what they are, it is small wonder thatEvangeline and Danior's feelings could grow in such a short time frame.<br />Something a bit different to Dodd's usual fare, nonetheless I'm sure her regular readers will enjoy this tale, as will all readers of historical romance.  Only be prepared for the fairy tale.	2003-06-10
US	52079418	R2EIXSSWOPE0UK	1893896331	647105948	Heart of the Hero	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Making memories	It took me a little while to get into this story of poor little rich boy turned hero, now moulded by events rather that history due to the loss of his memory.  When the central character has a history of only 20 months, it is difficult to build a past for him so that the reader might get involved. The story has the benefit of tragedy, and one can only feel for a character who has suffered so much physically, and is now suffering emotionally.  It's a good hook into the book, because frankly as people neither Daniel White as spoiled, angry rich kid, nor Rebekah White (Kee) who married Daniel in no small part because of his money were otherwise appealing. However, the story takes part 6 years after their wedding of the two rather immature people, and the interest is definitely in these two characters and their interaction when Daniel - now Danny - returns home with a white flash 20 months earlier being the first of his memories.  He's not sure where he belongs, or even who he really is, and he doesn't particularly like the person known as Daniel White.  Kee, his wife, does not have the benefit of loss of memory, and can well recall the difficult first 6 months of their life together.<br />I much preferred Danny to Kee as a person.  He was honest, open and not afraid to say how much he needs her.  Kee was exactly the opposite - not dishonest, but closed, withdrawn and afraid.  It take at least half the book before she stops obsessing over the same fears, and this lack of growth directly opposed Danny's needs.  Of course, Kee had reason to be fearful, as Daniel had rejected her right before he left to take the compulsory military service that separated them.  Kee is able to feel sympathy for Danny, but seems unable to understand him when it is crucial that she does.  She winces from hearing of his suffering, and doesn't really care about how he spends his days investigating what really caused the accident that cost him his memory.  Danny, too, doesn't take active interest in Kee's life - that she is visiting her sick mother daily - and never meets with the woman himself, which shows his own self absorption.  I just thought it a much more understandable selfishness.<br />However, once I was drawn into the story I found it a very human one.  The setting slightly into the future allows for the basis of the story, so that it is integral to the book.  The focus is very much on Danny and Kee, with especially Danny's family as the secondary characters.  Their rebuilding of their fragile and fractured relationship I found to be absorbing and very believable, because rather than in spite of the flaws in their characters mentioned above.  <br />I gave the book 3 stars because as absorbing as it became, I could not get past that I didn't much like at least one of the main characters.   However I think that this is very much a personal reaction of mine, and has nothing to do with the quality of the writing or of the story itself.	2003-06-10
US	52079418	R1L95ZF14RDJDB	0060092130	43840938	Dance of Seduction (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 4)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Determined battles with Stubborn	A sequel to `A Dangerous Love', `A Notorious Love' and `After the Abduction', this book can be read without being familiar with the earlier books.  It features Morgan Pryce (the last being only one of his names/identities), who was briefly met earlier in `After the Abduction'.  Juliet and Sebastian from that book are also in this, but the plot of the earlier book is not extensively referred to.<br />Morgan has had a difficult upbringing, and the only peace he can recall is the structured life in the navy.  Nevertheless he has been persuaded to pose as a fence in Spitalfields, an area rife with pickpockets and thieves, in order to catch a villain.  An area where the Home for pickpockets financed by the efforts of Lady Clara Stanbourne is located.  Lady Clara is horrified by the appearance of a fence so close to her Home for pickpockets - his `shop' representing temptation for her young charges.  And even more horrified to realise she feels a strong attraction to the man she perceives as being a criminal and rogue of the first order.  Clara sets out to do all that she can to rid herself of the temptation he represents.  And, contrary to Morgan's first impression of her, all that she can is quite some considerable amount.<br />Morgan and Clara seem very real to me - fleshed out and well constructed as characters.  They don't instantly know all about each other, and even three quarters of the way into the book are still discovering both each other and themselves.  They each make assumptions about the other that experience later reveals to be incorrect - just as first impressions can be mistaken in life.  Clara is no simpering miss, and Morgan is no male to be manipulated by charm and wiles.  Both have definite minds of their own, ideas of right and wrong that they are willing to defend, and both are just a little bit outside the `norm' for their station.  While being very different from each other, both ultimately have the same needs.  When told with Jeffries usual skill, this makes for a tale of two people who seem all wrong for each other finding out how very well they fit.  Not without some struggle along the way, but that makes the end result all the more worth while.	2003-04-17
US	52079418	R3F5TFP00ETTFF	0380810484	244602149	How to Trap a Tycoon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Theoretical vs Practical	Dorsey MacGuinness is a teaching assistant in a local college, where sociology is her background.  Also in her background is being the daughter of a woman who prefers the role of mistress to wife.  When Dorsey semi-seriously wrote a `how to' manual on catching a rich man, it was on the urging and inspiration of her mother.  Dorsey hardly expected for it to become a best seller!<br />Moonlighting as a bartender at a gentleman's club was a way for Dorsey to research her next, this time more academic project.  Until Adam Darien, one of the well off businessmen at the club, took to complaining about a certain best selling book.  And from there on, things just got more complicated as Dorsey and Adam became involved, while Dorsey tried to keep her author alter ego out of their relationship.<br />Strong characters are what makes this book special.  Dorsey, her unusual mother Carlotta and her friend Edie, and even Drake's owner Lindy are all very strong, unique and distinctive female characters.  Lindy is positively scary, Carlotta very charming and engaging, and Edie's secondary story nearly overshadows Dorsey's (and from time to time does overshadow it).  Adam and Lucas, the two main men of the piece, do not let the masculine side down either.  There are no simple stereotypes here, and the strong and believable individuals and their agendas and interactions made this book something different, and special for me.  There is a distinct feminist angle contained within the text in a very positive way, and I also enjoyed the `backlash' effect in the plotting - very possible I thought.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book and recommend it to all readers of romance.	2003-04-16
US	52079418	RTON2VVO2HTMR	0505524996	273190859	Contact	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Who to trust in First Contact	Susan Grant is an author that definitely uses what she knows as the foundation for her work, then builds upon it an entire new world - or more than one new world.<br />Jordan Cady is first officer of a United Airlines flight on a routine flight when their aircraft is captured.  They are taken aboard an alien space ship, apparently the only survivors from a comet destroying the earth.  The captian dies of a heart attack soon after, and now it is Jordan that the survivors look to for leadership.  On board the alien vessel, Kào was rescued / captured himself when he was only three and has been raised by his adoptive father Moray, who is in charge of the ship. Kào has recently been imprisoned by the Talagars and tortured.  Since his return to the Alliance, Kào has found himself unable to connect with others.<br />Grant really has a good grasp on the concept of `alien abduction' - the practacalities of the various emotions - panic, the dawning `we are not alone' feeling, anger, fright, survivor guilt, helplessness - as well as of the situation in which Jordan and the others on board flight 58 might find themselves - the language barriers, technologies and lack of operations knowledge of even the seemingly simple things, the risk of disease etc that both new races face.  This was a very enjoyable aspect of the book and gave great depth to the work as a whole.  It certainly deepened the emerging relationship between Jordan and Kào.  The conflict between their differing loyalties is well told, but also resolves itself as they acknowledge, at least internally, their feelings for each other.  They come to trust each other despite their situation, and having made that bond of trust, it holds true.  Call me idealistic, but I found that very touching.  The feelings that exist between them are naturally expressed in a physical way and Grant handles this well too, making the sexual scenes both hot and also meaningful.<br />There is also complexity to the basic plot - spies onall sides, working out who can be trusted, the true fate of Earth and the inevitability of the resulting action (right through to the epilogue).  I was very satisfied by the end of the book that Jordan and Kào were heroes that got the ending they deserved.   And yet the end is only the beginning of a new Alliance...	2003-04-10
US	52079418	R3VE0W22QYWIP0	0505524821	522851850	Cupid.Com	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Love gets technical	Cupid has been challenged to update - instead of the trusty bow and arrow, he has to bring a couple together using modern means.  Choosing two victims - Chloe Phillips who presently heads a creative investment firm, and AJ Lockhart who has been sent in effectively to audit the firm at the behest of the Board - Cupid sets out to meet the challenge.  Chloe is someone for whom people are at least as important as numbers, in selecting the ideas which her firm should back.  She had made some mistakes early on, but as AJ finds, she is now finding her feet in the company.  Or so it seems until e-Cupid and Cupid.com arrive with inventor E. Rose, and the electronic cupid sends events spiralling out of control.  It seemed like a good idea at the time, but after viewing e-Cupid, Chloe's number one inventor is writing her appalling poetry instead of working on his product, and her best friend's fantasy man seems fixated on her too.  Chloe might have believed that AJ was her True Love, but e-Cupid seems to have developed more than a few bugs.<br />How Chloe and AJ find their feet with one another is the essence of the tale, set against their business relationship, budding trust in each other, and the somewhat insidious matter Chloe's brother overseeing developments with a less than friendly eye.  AJ and Chloe's differing abilities partner well together in business, and their chemistry begins to zing in their private life.<br />A consistently amusing tale that endeavours to teach an old Cupid new tricks, only to discover perhaps it is better to go with the system that works.	2003-04-10
US	52079418	REES7V5RJ3TA	0505525283	512463938	Keeper of the Light	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Fey, otherworldly story	Set over only a matter of weeks, Keeper of the Light tells the story of the healer Rioghan, who lives a hermit like life in Sion amongst the little people - the Sidhe.  Rioghan's heritage is a mix of Sidhe and Man, and she protects the stone circle at Sion and the precious artefacts of the Sidhe.   Donaill is the kings champion, a warrior that one day may be king.  He is handsome, charming, and accustomed to getting whatever he wants.  He rides out one night to get Rioghan to come and act to help a woman whose husband has betrayed her (and whose story is the strong secondary plotline in the book).  Donaill becomes intrigued with Rioghan and over the course of a couple of meetings, including the defence of Sion from attack from his own village, Donaill persuades Rioghan that he wants to pay court to her.  Rioghan reluctantly agrees - reluctant because she disbelieves that any man would remain satisfied with just one woman, let alone a man of status and influence such as Donaill.  And sure enough, soon after that agreement Donaill comes under the influence of a village woman...<br />As someone who normally likes fantasy and magical tales, I didn't love this book.  There is not much story to it, as the threat on Sion is the only action - repeated again and again but that's it.  I did enjoy that Rioghan and Donaill were carefully built characters, products of their backgrounds and experiences and quite different from each other.  Rioghan while being a woman of the earth, was quite unable to trust.  Donaill, a warrior, seemed to have less of a problem with that than Rioghan, but of course he was much less vulnerable in the almost feudal system that operates in O'Kerry's creation.  I was interested in their story, but there was no complexity to it, no richness, no real challenge that I felt had to be overcome, aside from the magical one.  I could not connect with the lifestyle of the villagers.  For example their rather feudal lord was referred to as a king.  Donaill might one day become king, but there was no explanation of the hierarchy - making it difficult for me to picture the world O'Kerry was trying to create.  <br />Many influences in the book, especially Irish and druid, but I'm not sure I found it engaging enough.  Ultimately I didn't became involved in the story - the pace was too slow and there was simply not enough going on either between characters or in terms of plot to keep me interested.	2003-04-07
US	52079418	R20BJ8V9SP7AF0	0804120013	610490370	In Too Deep (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 4)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	One of the Wright brothers falls in love	We met the Wrights in Kiss and Tell, and In Too Deep tells the romance of Michael Wright and Tally Cruise.  Michael has been injured physically and emotionally by the events a year ago that saw his partner killed.  The villain they as Navy SEALs were after was Tally's father, who on that occasion foiled them.  Now recovered as much as he can physically, but out of the SEALs because of his injuries, Michael has vowed to get his man.  Tally has apparently been invited to her estranged father's island to get to know the man at last, and she's looking forward to it and dreading it in both parts.  With a few days to - er - kill before her father arrives, Tally meets Michael as a result of an accident at sea.  Instantly attracted to him, Tally is brave enough to take what she wants, knowing it will be just one time.  But Michael of course has an agenda that she doesn't know about, and it's in HIS interests to take advantage of Tally and play on the attraction until her father arrives.<br />No, it's not a `nice' situation, but an interesting dilemma.  While the whole `Navy SEAL and villain on private island' scenario might not be something likely to happen in everyday living, books are often about escapism and here's a good example.  The two central characters remain the focus of the story, but there is plenty of them to do and enough intrigue and suspense to keep the plot developing briskly.  Lots of heat between Michael and Tally too.  Tally is honest, brave and engaging.  Michael is a wounded warrior with issues to resolve.  A lot of action, a lot of emotion, a lot of conflict, and a lot to work through.  I enjoyed the book - a lot.	2003-04-07
US	52079418	R6XSLHGRO22PY	1893896137	214715380	Cupid: The Captivating Chauffeur	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Venus, Cupid, high jinks	This book is one of a very funny series that has Cupid and his mother Venus meddling in human affairs to make good their own situation with dad Jupiter.  Sometimes to make Jupiter pleased, sometimes to tick him off.  The Gods really are like mischievous, spoiled and often charming children, and cause complete chaos and mayhem for the humans they are focusing on.<br />In this book it's the directionally impaired Frankie Ling, half Italian half Chinese part time worker in her fathers limousine service.  Andrew Sullivan, having just sold his business for mega bucks and now free of the siblings he helped raised, is looking to cut loose a little.  Only a little, because his idea of cutting lose is a learning tour - hiring a car and driver - Andrew can't drive - for a month and going to all those places he's always wanted to go.  Only he gets Frankie as his driver, who takes him to places he's never even been before.<br />It's a funny story, largely because of the antics of Cupid and Venus and how they affect Frankie and Andrew.  Frankie is a free spirit, and Andrew a stick in the mud, and that makes for some fun dialogue and situations.  I don't know if two so completely opposed people would really get on, but Jeffries certainly makes these two opposites attract. <br />It takes real talent to be consistently light-hearted and funny without being heavy handed, and Jeffries really succeeds in this fantasy/comedy/romance.  It's a tad shorter than the average tale, but well judged as otherwise it might have dragged.	2003-04-07
US	52079418	R1FBJ5UJ0EBGHD	0804119686	563168274	I Got You, Babe	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Fugitive and the Cop	Classic premise - a fugitive on the run from the law inadvertently runs into instead of away from the long arms of a cop. In this case the fugitive is Renee Esterhaus, and she's running because she's all but been convicted of a crime she didn't commit. The evidence is pretty much against her, as well as her own juvenile record, and Renee doesn't see any other solution - she has vowed never to do jail time. John DeMarco is the guy she propositions in order to get a quick ride (no pun intended) away from the bounty hunter who momentarily captures her. Eventually John finds out who Renee is. From a long line of cops, John cannot simply let Renee go, no matter how appealing he might find her personally, and he sets out firmly intending to take her into custody. But ultimately he finds himself, if not convinced of her innocence, at least with some doubt to her guilt. Knowing that the system will indeed process her without digging any deeper, John has a decision to make. To get involved in the case - breaking the law he is there to uphold, or to do his duty.<br />It might be an archetypal basis to a story, but in the telling Graves has created a very enjoyable tale with distinct and believable characters. The sexual heat between John and Renee builds up naturally, and is told without redundancy but to great effect. I liked that Renee was able to acknowledge her past mistakes, that she was unprepared and essentially unable to execute running away from the law (Graves did not invest her with any unlikely specialist knowledge or luck on new identities etc). Renee was aware of her situation, even if I think she should have revised her plan as she went along (for example she was always heading for New Orleans, having been tracked and caught already going in that direction). John was an interesting character, as much formed by his background as Renee was, although he had some serious character flaws - it made good reading when he let her go, but I didn't find it admirable how he did it.<br />An interesting spin on a classic plot.	2003-04-02
US	52079418	R3NCJ8JM44C91Y	0380899825	801007174	Hearts Aflame (Haardrad Family)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Vikings, captives, lust and battle	Kristen Haardrad smuggled herself in her brothers' ship bound, she thought, on a trading voyage.  However Selig has plans to raid a Saxon church, supposedly easy pickings.  The raid goes horribly wrong, Selig is struck down and the remainder of the force taken prisoner.  At first, Kristen is taken for a man (due to her Viking height and men's clothing) but once it is discovered she's a woman she is removed from her compatriots and sent to work in the hall of Royce of Wyndhurst.  And now for a battle of another kind, as master and prisoner become attracted to one another.  Who will win the battle of lust and love?<br />For a seemingly straightforward plot, there is much that is complex here. The relationship of the Haardrad family members is in turn endearing, frustrating, funny and heart-warming in their dedication to one another.  Kristen is not the normal mould of Viking, due to her mother's teachings and beliefs (her mother herself was taken captive by Kristen's Viking father).  Yet her fierceness, exuberance and willingness to fight is pure Viking, and very different from the Saxon way.  Kristen never considers herself a slave, although all the Saxons including Royce do.  Kristen quickly realises that she wants Royce for her own, and has few maidenly hesitations about using whatever it takes to make him hers, dedicating herself entirely to the task.  Much about the book may be uncomfortable from the modern perspective - the issue of slavery, of the Viking culture and attitude to women taken prisoner being prime examples - and may give some readers pause.  The action scenes are excellent, the development of the relationship developing between Kristen and Royce is well described.<br />Once reconciled to the cultural issues, there is much to enjoy about this romance as Kirsten sets about winning her man.	2003-03-31
US	52079418	R4YKSTGJJTZ78	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A book far better than the film	...and there was nothing wrong with the film!<br />Although the film was only `inspired by' the book, perhaps 30% of the book is in the film.  With one or two notable exceptions (the relationship between FBI and Abagnale, and Franks con of fellow schoolmates, which is not in the book, and the ending of the film) I found the book to be far more fascinating than the film.<br />From his first con of his father, through his career as paperhanger, cheque swindler and con man, Frank Abagnale at 17 was at the time the youngest of his breed ever.  Here he describes how he was able to take advantage of banks, airlines (one of his most successful scams as a co-pilot allowed him to travel throughout the USA and then the rest of the world), hospitals, universities... almost any institution one might care to name.  Frank scammed them all, with charm, flair and ingenuity.  He was caught occasionally, and if he couldn't talk his way out of it, he could usually escape (not from the French, and he didn't even try with the Swedes).  Far from being a hardened criminal, Frank essentially did this to fund adventures with women, much like any teen might want to do.  Frank's sheer out and out daring, his intelligence, his ability to lie at the drop of a hat and unrepentantly, and the unorthodox nature of his crimes make for compelling reading.  The book does end a little up in the air, but this is resolved by an Afterword.<br />A charming and entertaining read.	2003-03-31
US	52079418	R2WDWEB7R1YCT3	0843949740	133567777	The Reluctant Reformer	Books	4	28	28	N	N	A case of mistaken identity leads to love	Lady Margaret Wentworth's brother Gerald was unfortunately killed during the war, leaving Maggie to care for his London house and the servants that are dependant on her for a living.  There is little cash in her inheritance, so Maggie does the scandalous thing of earning a living - continuing the writing career that her brother started.  Before the opening of the book she has disguised herself to, for example, investigate a gentleman's gambling club to write about, something that would horrify society if they suspected who G W Clark really was.  Now Maggie is investigating a brothel, conducting interviews in the very brothel housing the infamous `Lady X'.<br />Lord Ramsey was a good friend of Gerald - in fact Gerald died saving his life.  James had promised Gerald to watch over his sister.  To live up to that vow, James employed an investigator on his return - an investigator who identified Maggie as Lady X.  Now James is determined to save Maggie from herself, and on the very night she next travels to the brothel, James kidnaps her and takes Maggie to his estate.  The issue of mistaken identity is resolved about half way through the book and Maggie returns to London, soon followed by James, but now it appears that someone is trying to harm her...<br />Sands has a definite feel for comic situations.  From the kidnap to the talking at cross purposes that goes on for days between James and Maggie, to Maggies attempt at escape, to the events that seem destined to happen whenever they go into a library, the talented Sands is able to infuse a lighthearted element even into moments of danger or stress.  And in this case it even carries across to the love life of the two central characters - right up to the very last page.<br />The eccentric servants, the brothel owner, James' aunt and his best friend Robert all make excellent secondary characters.  I'm sure all readers of romance would enjoy this lively example.	2003-03-31
US	52079418	RRF8IWJ8YWGW9	0515133086	310927993	Beyond Seduction	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Who seduced who?	Merry Vance has no interest in marriage, in relinquishing herself to a mere man just because it is expected.  But her family is putting the pressure on, so Merry concocts a plan to ruin her reputation by allowing herself to be painted by Nicolas Craven, the hot artist of the moment in London.<br />Nicholas is very taken with Merry's attractions, and is in fact eager to paint her.  Merry deceives him by posing as a servant, and he in turn is taken by her unaware beauty and charm.  The two soon realise their attraction for one another, and act upon it.  For each it starts out as a temporary thing, but when Merry finally has the opportunity she had been working towards, she finds she cannot simply walk away from Nicholas.  Together they go to Vience, city of lovers.  But Nicholas still does not know the truth, and in fact he is hiding something himself...<br />I enjoyed that Merry takes control of her situation here.  She comes under considerable pressure and in fact blackmail from her family, and unusually for the time (considering her station) she does not bend to their wishes, but comes up with her own plan, takes action and then also takes responsibility for the consequences.  Nicholas is more a product of the time, but is nevertheless an engaging central male character, with his own strengths and weaknesses, and provides the opportunity for Merry to blossom into the person he uniquely perceived her as being from the outset.<br />Taking the romance outside of London was also different.  The lifestyle Nicolas leads in Venice is not a particularly attractive one, but it is this section that leads to the epiphany for both characters independently as well as for the structure of the story as a whole.<br />The sensuality sizzled, the characters are unique and distinctive, and altogether I found the book to be something more than the standard Regency Romance.	2003-03-31
US	52079418	R1N5LM6SQNBK3U	1551666618	274925781	Impetuous Innocent	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Sweetly romantic tale	Georgiana Hartley returns to England after the death of her painter father.  Arriving to find herself in an unsuitable situation, Goergiana escapes and finds herself asking the advice of her neighbour, Dominic Ridgely.  The viscount is more than helpful, sending Georgiana to his sister and brother in law in London.  Although no pauper, Georgiana intends to find a position as a governess or companion to support herself.  Dominics sister Bella instantly perceives that Georgianas prospects would be much improved by Dominics suggestion of a season in London.  Bella is reluctantly in London with husband Arthur due to Arthurs business connections, not for the delights of the season.  Dominic and Arthur, each of whom love Bella and want her happiness, are delighted to sponsor Georgiana, even if they have to hide from Georgiana herself that is what they are doing.  But when Dominic arrives in London to visit his sister and truly sees Georgiana as a woman for the first time (having previously automatically provided a too young filter), he begins to fall for her.  And thus begins his plan to seduce her carefully, within the bounds set by society so that no taint or doubt can cast by either Georgiana or the ton.<br />Georgiana is young and innocent, although more assured than most her age due to her exposure to the Italian aristocracy from a young age.  She is confused at Dominics attentions turn to her, as he displays none of the fire and feeling usual amongst the Italians.  She creates various reasons for Dominics objective interest in her, objections which Dominic has to overcome only to have another replace it.<br />Dominic and Georgaina are an appealing couple, and the romance that Laurens creates for them is a sweet, slow one.  This is not a hot spicy tale, but rather a dreamily romantic one.  Bella and Arthur are enjoyable secondary characters, and these four are very distinct people, while undoubtedly being a product of their time and social status.  Its not a book to burn its way into your best read list, but it is engaging, well told and one to raise a smile or two as you read.	2003-03-31
US	52079418	R3MCYYERZGDA4	0515130990	612858686	Beyond Innocence	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Lies and deceit, but it all works out in the end	Holly has chosen quite a complex issue here.  In addition to being a tale of romantic love between man and woman, the book touches on the love of an elder brother for the younger, and the issue of homosexuality in the Regency period.  Edward Burbrooke thinks that marriage is the answer for his brother Freddie, to save Freddie from scandal following recent exploits (the footman, no less!  Shock, horror).  Edward truly loves his brother and does not want Freddie's life in society to be ruined by his exploits, so he looks for the most sweet and innocent woman he can find to save his brother's reputation.  Enter Florence Fairleigh, a vicars daughter, newly arrived in London, all alone in the world and in something approaching desperate circumstances.  Although feeling some guilt in the manipulation, Edward sets out to ensure that Florence will marry his brother and save them all.  And as Freddie and Florence soon become engaged, the plan seems to be working.  Except that really, none of the three want this, and the situation is about to get very out of hand.  Attractions ignite into something more (for all three).  Then Florence finds out what Edward's plan was all along...<br />The themes of brotherly love of Edward and Freddie with it's subtext of protection, and repression of sexuality in Regency times are both handled with sympathy by Holly.  All three of the central characters here grow, make decisions - good or bad - and live with the repercussions of those decisions.  It's not a life changing book, but there are some interesting issues explored.  And it's unusual in that Freddie has almost as large a part to play in the text as Edward and Florence.<br />Steamy, fun, sensitive, sad - for a `simple' romantic tale, there's a lot to recommend itself in this book.	2003-03-31
US	52079418	R15NKAPMSRKCNO	038082082X	724787021	The Rake (Lessons in Love, Book 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Dare she try?	Lady Georgiana Halley is rather bitter and twisted about Viscount Dare, Tristan Carroway.  Six years ago he `charmed her out of her innocence', which she later found out was on a bet.  Trust broken and heart bruised, she has not let herself be in a position of disadvantage since then.  Georgiana is rich, titled and attractive.  Following the death of his father, Tristan is now one of the impoverished gentry - putting on a good show, but soon he'll have to start selling the non-entailed property unless he can find money fast.  Such as marrying the wealthy, young Amelia Johns.<br />Tristan and Georgiana move in the same circles, and the only reason she will still speak to him is because he has not exposed her to any scandal by their actions of six years past.  However, perceiving that he will not treat `poor Amelia' as well as he should, Georgiana sets out to teach Tristan a  lesson.  And there the fun begins.<br />I especially liked the Carroway family - the characters that make it up, the clear affection there, and that Tristan is (as most are in real life too) an entirely different person with his family.  Georgiana is able to see a different side to him, and basically she needs to in order to understand him.<br />For his part, Tristan regrets what he did, if not the event itself.  As the object of her lesson, he begins to perceive that there may be some hope for them, and eventually to conclude that if Goergiana won't be his wife, he'll have no one.  His monetary situation is a factor in their relationship, one they discuss frankly, but their relationship develops only as a trust is built up between them, and this is the central theme.<br />This book is part of a trilogy, and I'm looking forward to reading about how the other 2 `lessons' go.	2003-03-31
US	52079418	R185PNMFAO9LJ	0060505710	815745466	The Perfect Lover	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Simon is one hot Cynster!	The tenth novel in the Cynster series both lives up to the expectations built by its predecessors, and also brings along something a little different. I love the Cynster family and have enjoyed watching them match up with their mates. Here, some years after the events of 'On a Wicked Dawn' Simon Cynster is going to a house party attended by, amongst others, his brother-in-laws sister (i.e. no blood relation) Portia Ashford. Simon and Portia have known each other for 10 years, and have spent the time challenging each other at every turn. Unknown to the other, both of them have recently resolved to investigate the potential of marriage. The intelligent, cerebral and at the same time beautiful Portia vows to seriously consider all at the house party. Simon has already decided, the way Cynster males invariably do come to eventually, that it is time for him to find his own branch of his family 'to have and to hold'.<br />Both Simon and Portia know themselves and each other pretty well. They come to recognise the latent attraction, which bursts into passion (phew, nearly sets the pages alight!) as Simon tutors Portia in the ways of physical love, while also trying to win her over emotionally.<br />Portia is definitely a thinking woman. She's always leaving the house to go off and think, or pacing the library (or drawing room, or her bedroom'.) and pondering on her situation. This often slows the action down, and there's action aplenty to be had because this is also a strong murder mystery book. The murder and resulting investigation naturally moves the story along, and I think it needed it. Portia is an interesting woman, but once she's thought about her situation, assessed it and come to a decision ' get on with it already! This is a small moan, for the main part I found her thought process to be fascinating, especially where she and Simon were thinking the same, and where they think differently. At one point Simon ruefully realises that Portia knows what drives him morethan he does himself!<br />I wasn't keen on was how class conscious Portia appears. Social class is often in Portia's thoughts and although realistic for a member of the ton, I didn't find it attractive. Nonetheless, overall this book is a great addition to the series ' well written, intelligent, passionate, evocative. I'm not one for murder mysteries in general, but here Laurens has blended the two genres with great skill and capability.	2003-03-31
US	52079418	R29QWTKEW6OAY8	0449006832	724584881	Kiss and Tell (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Testosterone filled action and romance combine	Marnie Wright escapes her four protective brothers and father to go alone into the mountains to grieve for the loss of her beloved grandmother, who raised her.  While there she disturbs a `mountain man' in a nearby cabin, who gruffly warns her away.  The same man comes to her rescue when a storm destroys her grandmothers cabin.  Even so, it is not until armed men invade the mountainside that Marnie discovers her mountain man is ex-military, presumed guilty of being a mole and now hunted by both sides.  Jake Dolan has holed up in his `secret underground ultra-secure lair' but now that Marnie is exposed to danger, he feels compelled to protect her.  And as time goes on and he gets to know her, he cannot deny the attraction between them.<br />Don't let the seemingly hackneyed plot put you off.  This is a very readable book, full of excellent characters and some heart stopping action.  All the male characters are very strong and powerful, charismatic in their own way.  Marnie herself is more than able to hold her own, not only in terms of the physical strength required, but emotional strength also - with her family and with Jake.  The Wright family dynamics are great, and although much of the book has Jake and Marnie alone, nevertheless the supportive family feeling pervades the text of the book.  The tension - sexual as well as suspense - is well constructed and taut. The action pieces, in terms of Jakes hidey hole and the various assaults from friend and foe are obviously well thought out and tensely believable.  <br />Here's one reader looking forward to reading more about both the Wright brothers and the black ops team.	2003-03-19
US	52079418	R11ZA9ZCG58L4D	037383568X	339519755	Casey (Buckhorn Brothers, Book 5)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sweet addition to the Buckhorn series	Casey is the story of ... well, Casey, son of Sawyer and nephew of Morgan, Gabe and Jordan (all of whom feature in this tale). Casey has appeared as a youngster in the other Buckhorn stories, but here he's grown up and finds his own future in the form of Emma Clark. Emma had been a wild, troubled young teen with a well deserved reputation. Casey had been her only friend, and she had adored him as well as wanted him desperately. But Casey had plans for his future and they did not include Emma. To his credit, he had not taken advantage of Emma. Emma was in desperate straits and turned to his family for help, which of course they gave to her, but that very night she snuck out to make something of herself and her life. Something she couldn't do in Buckhorn with the reputation she carried and the family she had. <br />Eight years later she has returned to visit her ill father. Casey is almost the first person she meets in town - a Casey who has matured as she has. But one thing hasn't changed, and that is the attraction between them...<br />Foster has written rather a sweet romance here, a tender story of a strong man and a troubled woman who has finally found her place in life. Emma's relationship with her pseudo big brother Damon is naturally touching, as is the strong feelings the entire Hudson clan share for each other and those they care about. The heat between Emma and Casey occasionally flares strong, but for the most part is more a constant simmer. It was great having a central female character that was proud of who she had become, and accepted who she had been. The book is perhaps not as erotically charged as some of Fosters other books, but it is a great story of a woman finding her feet, and a man finding his woman.	2003-03-07
US	52079418	R1JQ4CIFCKQ48L	0425189031	810324253	Portrait in Death	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Eve and Roarke at their best	Another fantastic addition to a marvellous series.  Lieutenant Eve Dallas is investigating the death of students, those who seem to almost glow with an extra quality of 'light' - innocence, happiness, intelligence, and such ephemeral qualities.  The killer carefully poses each at death and takes photographs that seem to highlight this quality in their natures, exhibiting his own skill at the lens (and hence the title of the book).   Eve is a little off her stride, because Roarke is bothered by the discovery of something about his past, something he feels is fundamental to his own circumstances and nature.  Something he's not ready to share, not even with Eve.  And Eve has to deal with the fact that, as his wife and life partner, she really wants him to share.  She's now truly part of a couple, and doesn't want to be shut out.  Now it is Eve standing outside Roarke's internal doors, asking to be let in, and he that seems to have difficulty admitting her.<br />I am pleased that in this book Roarke and Eve are the central focus, even more than the mystery of who is the serial killer.  Eve is becoming more and more comfortable with the various connections she makes, openly admitting to being Nadine Furst's friend without any prompting!  And we meet all of our old friends, some taking more pages than others (McNab, Dr Mira, Baxter & Trueheart are definitely backstage here, but still able to carry off significant roles in the action, especially the latter two).<br />Regular readers of the series I'm sure will enjoy the book as much as I do.  Eve is developing, as is her relationships with Roarke in particular, but also with her widening circle of friends and acquaintances. Roarke grows here too, which is a different element to bring into the book.  As usual the writing is superb and the vision of the not so distant future is intriguing.  I find with Robb/erts that it is these little, deft touches, sprinkling world-building context into the tale with such as skilful hand that highlights what a talented writer she is.	2003-03-07
US	52079418	R1HOWDYOJIIMK8	0060511508	264413309	The Further Observations of Lady Whistledown	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Four inter-connected tales	Four well known authors, including Lady Whistledown's creator Quinn herself, each write a short story connected by being in the same time frame and by the writings of Lady Whistledown's Society Papers.<br />`One True Love' by Suzanne Enoch tells the story of Lady Anne Bishop, who has been engaged since childhood to Maximilian Trent - Marquis of Halfurst.  Maximilian's estates are in Yorkshire, and Anne's life is set squarely in London.  Anne is taking advantage of her long-standing engagement with the fiancé she has never seen by essentially doing whatever she wants, within the confines of society.  Maximilian has heard of some of her (rather mild) exploits and has come down to London to reclaim his bride.  Only to find when he got there that he actually desires his bride, and wants her to choose him over the suitors she doesn't seem to be aware that she has collected.  Rather than bully his way into her life, he sets out to win her love.  <br />In Karen Hawkin's `Two Hearts' Lady Elizabeth Pritchard has recently found there is an emptiness in her life.  An eccentric, determined woman, she has realised that it is likely that she wants to be married.  Although not regarded as a great beauty, she has a style all her own and is generally speaking unafraid of what society thinks of her - and thus society tolerates her and even adopts some of her weirder trends as their own.  Liza decides on Lord Durham and soon her best friend Margaret Shelbourne and her brother Sir Royce Pemberley are in on the plan.  Meg and Liza have been like sisters, and Royce and Liza the closest of friends for many years.  Royce finds himself utterly thrown by the realisation that Liza may be marrying sometime soon, and likely removed from his circle for months at a time thereafter.  He comes to the realisation that he wants her for his own.  Now to make a woman that already knows him all to well understand that he is, for the first time, completely serious.<br />Mia Ryan's `A Dozen Kisses' is the shortest of the four stories, and the gentlest.  Lady Caroline Starling is becoming rather desperate to be free of he mother.  She has forced herself to become quiet and unseen, as otherwise Caroline knows she would say and do the oddest things.  She feels a quiet desperation and loneliness.  Linney is quietly pleased to have caught the attention of the Earl of Pellering, while not harbouring any deep feeling for her potential husband.  Terrance Greyson, Lord Darington, was wounded three years previously.  A bullet in his brain has made speech difficult for him, and he often finds himself saying things he shouldn't, or unable to phrase what it is he truly wants to say.  How these two find each other is a short but sweet tale, and last few pages of their story especially let their actions speak for them.<br />The final of the quartet is Julia Quinn's `Thirty-six Valentines'.  Susannah Ballister was one of the most popular debs of the previous season, until the man that all thought would propose to her instead married another.  Overnight she was someone to be pitied and whispered about, so she returned to the country to recover.  Now in London again, Susannah is finding it difficult to smile while being the subject of gossip and enjoy her new role of wallflower.  David Mann-Formsby, Earl of Renminster is the brother of the man that let her down.  Influential in society, he makes an act of kindness that serves to restore Susannah so that she can once again take part in society.  In doing so, David discovers that it is more than kindness that is driving him - he wants Susannah.  All wrong for his brother, he finds she is completely right for himself and he sets out to make Susannah see that.  For her part, Susannah is puzzled at why David, whom she knows did not approve of her, is aiding her and resolves that it must be pity, or at least sympathy, that motivates him.  Now David must make a grand gesture to show that it is not pity that drives him, but love.<br />Evenif you are not familiar with Lady Whistledown, any reader of romance should enjoy these four short tales.  Each are skilfully written, and an enjoyable read.  I liked that they each joined up here and there, set in the same few weeks without being choreographed to the exact same timetable.  The fact that the book is broken into four easy bites makes for a light, relaxing read.  Sometimes you'll laugh, sometimes you'll hurt for those you read about, but I'm certain you'll enjoy yourself throughout.	2003-03-07
US	52079418	RLH4S5159ZNX8	0515135216	569070882	Dark Symphony (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 9)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	More Compelling Carpathians	Those of you that know Feehan will be very familiar with the premise of this series - the long lived Carpathain's, seeking their life mates to stop them from becoming the dreaded undead. This amazing, fresh take on the vampire genre is not quite as fresh any more, as this is the 9th story in the series. This book can be read as a stand alone, but will be a richer read with the benefit of at least one of the other books - perhaps Dark Prince and Dark Desire, where we met Byron before.<br />In these earlier two books Byron was a reasonably lighthearted fellow, content with himself and his friends, although aware as they all are of the need to find a lifemate. Because of a couple of errors in judgement, (in Dark Desire), Bryron has decided to further punish himself and against his natural inclinations has become a Hunter. Antonietta Scarletti (descendant of the Palazzo dela Morte gothic series - those who have read the Scarletti Curse in particular will be aware of her supernatural heritage) is a blind composer of some renown, and her music calls to Byron, soothes his anguish and compels him to her. She is his life mate, and he must claim her. But, more than those previously in the series, he tries desperately to give her the human courtship and to let her make the choice to become Carpathian. But something is stalking Antonietta, and Byron's need to let her choose is set against his need to protect her...<br />I like that this book is a bit different from the rest of the series. Byron is a hunter, but not by calling. In fact, unusually, he doesn't battle a vampire in the entirety of the book - which I liked a lot. Sure, I love the strength shown in the battles, but here is someone who is not so driven by his own needs (which the stronger hunters have to battle constantly) that he ignores those of his life mate. Byron is able to show flairs of his earlier character, he's not as darkly intense as some of the other Hunters. Nothing wrong with darkly intense I hasten to add, but no need for a steady diet of it. Antonietta has her own strengths, and abilities, and doesn't necessarily agree with Byron on everything. She has questions and thoughts about her own Jaguar nature. She often wins their discussions - and I liked that about her and about the book.<br />In Dark Symphony Feehan is able to not only allow us to revisit old friends, but brings something new into the general thread of the overall story as well as developing the specific story that is the central focus of the book. I think this shows a lot of talent, and I am a great fan of this series. Long may it continue.	2003-03-04
US	52079418	R3SXMO06VQL1IJ	0812550234	622239218	Primary Inversion (The Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Skilful, compelling writing	Asaro has begun her Skolian Empire saga with a strong first novel.  Sauscony Valdoria is one of the few true Rhon left in the Allied worlds.  Only Rhon can rule `psiberspace' and manipulate the invasive, essential Skolian Web (similar but on a totally different scale to the Internet), and for that there needs to be a Triad.  Soz is one of 2 possible heirs to the military arm of the Triad, the other being her own brother (while another brother, Kurj, currently holds the position).  Ambition, missions, secrets and manipulations have made Soz and her family distrustful of each other, while with their telepathic gifts they have an undeniable need for closeness - a need Kurj sees as a weakness.<br />Soz is not only telepathic, but also a bioengineered psi warrior pilot - thus on all fronts she seems to inspire fear rather than love.  She's long lived, and has a history behind her that brings much depth to the character, and the reader is able to read much into her actions as a result.<br />Jaibroil Highton is the Highton heir to the Traders - enemies of the Skolian empire.  When Soz and Jaiobriol first meet, they find they are able to make the rare psi bond of true Rhon - essentially they are enemies, but the only true match for each other.<br />Asaro doesn't make it easy for Soz, who is conflicted by many loyalties and also by her own drives, desires and ambitions.  Ultimately events work around her until she feels she has no choice but to act, although the cost is high.  By the end of the book, she has lost as much as she has gained.<br />A strong, complex, character driven novel with much in it as a vision of the future.  The scientific elements are well thought out and well drawn, although I did get a little lost in the science of it from time to time.  Nevertheless, a must for any Psi-Fi (ha!) reader	2003-03-04
US	52079418	R1K2NW23R3B2DC	0441010083	677086762	Dragon Blood (The Hurog Duology, Book 2)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Amazing Ward	The sequel to 'Dragon Bones' is every bit as good as that exceptional book. It's 4 years after the events of Dragon Bones, and the five kingdoms have been putting themselves back together, especially Hurog Keep and it's guardian Wardwick. Now twenty three, Ward is content rebuilding his home, and practising the magic binding him, the land and his people together.<br />But the High King has determined that four years have dulled the memory of most of his subjects to the heroism of Ward's saving of the kingdom/s and sends along his men to bring back Ward to 'interview' him and establish his fitness to rule Hurog. Ward goes along with his captors because he literally knows what the consequences are of the various choices he has. Ward is subjected to a week of torture before his relatives can reach him, and not even Oreg's awesome dragon based power can save him. Ward eventually saves himself, with a little unexpected assistance, that makes him the enemy of the High King - certainly no friend before, but now each is an unmistakable threat to the other. Ward must gather his allies, and fight for right, justice, and, as ever, for Hurog.<br />I'm just as taken with Ward as I was in the previous book. He is an exceptional character - inherently strong and with a strong sense of justice that guides his moral code. He has been through emotional and physical hardships, and continues to prevail without letting those experiences twist him with their bitterness. He's one of those genuine hero's who is truly surprised when others perceive him as such. It's a story of heroism, of politics, of leadership, of healing, of love and of family. Again, I'm amazed at all the threads and themes Briggs manages to pack into one volume.<br />I highly recommend this book and it's predecessor. The events of Dragon Bones are referred to many times in Dragon Blood, so to get the most out of the latter, you should read the former. It will be no hardship to do so!	2003-02-20
US	52079418	RLFRZ9YD7XPC8	0380818604	84144543	The Curse of Chalion	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent writing brings vibrant life to politics!	The action here is through the politics of the characters and resulting motivations, while the emotion is vested in our lead character, Cazaril, and the intense loyality and more that he feels for `his' two ladies - an intensity he felt from the time he first saw them on his return to his homeland, to the very last line of the book.  <br />Cazaril has returned from war a broken man, in body and largely in spirit, and at the opening of the book he simply wants a place to stop and rest - even a small space on the floor. Rather, the ruling family that he served before the war instead receive him as the wounded hero he is, and set him up as the tutor / secretary of the daughter of the house, who along with her brother are heirs to their part of the kingdom.  The privileged have their own responsibilities, and in short order both young heirs have to go to the central city, where their brother who rules the Chalion as a whole has brought them.  Once there, both are subject to the overt political manoeuvrings of the court.  And few with motives of the good of those they seek to manipulate.  But more than that, events enable Cazaril to identify a horrifying curse that hovers over Chalion, and in particlular in the line that rules it.  A curse that infects even his student...<br />Cazaril is clearly an extraordinary character.  Those who have read LMB's Vorkosigan series will recognise that because a body is damaged, does not mean that the character cannot be exceptional.  Aside from the fact that Cazaril's body doesn't work as well as others, and that he has a keen tactical mind, however, there is not much similarity to that series, and fans of the series will have to keep this firmly in mind if setting out to read this book - it is a different story altogether.  However, the writing is just as excellent.  <br />It can be a stretch from time to time to follow the many different agendas of the various secondary characters, however I quickly found I became very much involvedwith the interior events of Cazaril.  He is a man who makes sacrifices for what he believes is right, regardless of the cost to himself.  A few - luckily among them the few who matter to him most - recognise him for the exceptional man that he is.  His advice and tactics are always spot on, and the flaws he sees in others do tend to rear up and bite them, sometimes fatally.  The females in the story are strong or brave, or unusually perceptive, and they are the ones who seem to value Cazaril most, which I greatly enjoyed about this book.  Although the perspective never shifts from Cazaril, even when he seems less aware, the reader can tell how important he is to both those that care for him, and the success of the various plans that are made.  His charge Iselle goes from naïve girl to perceptive and thinking royal under his care and supervision, very much coming into her own.  <br />Politics, religion, tactics, warfare, loyality, love and friendship.  There's surely something for everyone.	2003-02-20
US	52079418	R3S8P6YSONKUFK	0505525054	109232711	Lord of the Dark Sun	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Next in the series should be better	The basis of this story is a good one.  For a start, it carries the weight of a successful series behind it and the benefit of meeting again with old friends.  Ariana is the daughter of Arnoth and Sierra from my own favourite of the series 'The White Sun'.  The book opens with her capture by the Automon, a large group of machines, who have captured her ship and her shipmates.  They are taken to a mining planet where they are to be companions to the men there - ultimately their only value being to breed replacement miners.  Ariana hooks up with the leader of the tribe and eventually the two fall in love.  After an escape that goes horribly wrong, Ariana believes her lover to be dead.  Ten years later they meet again - the pirate calling himself Damen is in fact her long ago lover.  Now the leader of a significant pirate force that works against the Automon, the two nevertheless are on opposing sides - Ariana as the daughter of the leader of the Intersystem worlds, and Damen as the pirate leader of a force that has obtained vast quantities of the most valuable fuel in the known systems by theft.  Damen must get Ariana to trust him, but it's not a good start that he has kidnapped her and is holding her hostage....<br />The story is interesting, but it's a pity I can't say that about Ariana.  Immature and oblivious is how I'd describe her, and quite seriously flawed as a leader.  She talks of duty, but doesn't live that example by her own people as she rapidly forms an attachment to Damen at the beginning of the book instead of looking after her shipmates.  The deaths of those she knows hardly appear to touch her, except for Damen's.  She is vain, weak and silly, and essentially thinks she has qualities that are not borne out by her actions.  I think the only redeeming feature is that even when she comes to agreement with Damen, she is quite clear of her intention to return home, sacrificing even her own happiness for what the reader knows is her daughter's sake.<br />There is much to enjoy about this book if the reader can overlook what I found to be a severely lacking leading lady.  The secondary characters are great - Nob and his likeness to the lingbats, and Fia's story (clearly waiting for it's own book) should be a fantastic one - I wanted to know Fia far, FAR more than Ariana and look forward to reading more of her.  The sensual aspects of the story are well described, as usual for Piel.  The world building continues to be distinctive and believable and an integral part of the story, rather than simply providing a setting.  That Damen and Ariana can laugh at their own vanity is endearing.  If Ariana weren't so completely unaware of undercurrents in any given situation - to me unforgivable in any 'ruler', which Ariana is set up to be - I would like her a great deal more.<br />For me the writing is great, the story line is both funny and compelling.  There is depth and complexity to this work that is perhaps less obvious in the previous stories.  However, I found Ariana irritated me no end.  I'm fiercely hoping that Piel will tell Fia's story, because you can bet I'll snap it up, but of all Piel's female leads, I like Ariana least.	2003-02-13
US	52079418	R3J1TS8RAXFQEP	0373834985	647650262	A Comfortable Wife	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A glowing, feel good read	Antonia Mannering knows what she wants.  She wants to be a wife.  At 24, she's had 8 years to think about it, while effectively cloistered away with her grief-stricken mother and much younger brother.  Now, following her mothers death and their year of mourning, Antonia is ready to put her plan in action.   Further, she wants to be the wife of her childhood friend, Lord Philip Ruthven, whom she `objectively' considers to be in need of a wife.  Antonia knows what is expected of a society wife, and has every intention of being a comfortable wife, one that fits well within the boundaries of their mutual station, one who knows what is expected of her and conforms to them nicely.  That's the plan.  Until at last Philip and Antonia meet again, and everything begins NOT to work to plan.<br />This is a glowing, feel good read.  The feeling that these two have for each other is established early on, at least for the reader.  Each is very honest with the other - they have been friends forever, after all.  Yet somehow neither understands what the other thinks about marriage, specifically their own planned marriage.  Philip has a well deserved reputation with women, but even Antonia, eight years removed from his circle, knows how he needs a wife.  A fact that Philip himself has only recently discovered, following the example of his friends the Lester's.  Each is no young, green thing, their maturity in temperament, even as they are occasionally adrift in confusion, is obvious.  Comic moments are sprinkled throughout the book with Laurens customary light yet deft touch.  Sometimes it is the conversations the two have, sometimes a bit of physical comedy, sometimes that Antonia and Philip are talking at cross purposes.  There are some very poignant moments too - when Antonia discovers she may not be able to be a comfortable wife, after all, for example.<br />There are no hidden subplots here - the romance between the two and how they sort out their unconventional conventional marriage is the focus of the story.  It deserves to be - both these individuals are admirable in themselves and a true force combined.  The passion is there, but it is not a sensual tale - they do not consummate their relationship other until close to the end, so if you're looking for a spicy tale, this isn't it.  What it is a warm, truly Romantic tale with a capital R.	2003-02-13
US	52079418	R2Q8WQM3AWMACN	0451458877	259511144	Tainted Trail (Ukiah Oregon, Book 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another excellent Ukiah book	Ukiah Oregon and his PI investigative partner Max are back, picking up the action a couple of months after 'Alien Taste' finished. Although the events of Alien Taste are synopsised at various points in Tainted Trail, I highly recommend that you read Alien Taste first, both for the background to this the second book, and because it is such an original, well conceived and executed tale in itself.<br />Spencer continues this excellence in Tainted Trail. Ukiah and Max have come to Oregon to investigate the disappearance of the niece of colleague Kraynak, who is also known to them as she used to work for the agency. Ukiah, with his tracking abilities down to the cellular level, is quickly on the trail. As usual, that's where things start getting interesting. FBI, sheriff, family, Ontongard, Pack, and the recovery of a few more memories. It's great. Twists, turns, unanticipated events - as before, the reader learns with Ukiah as he finds out as much about himself as he does the case he is working on.<br />Ukiah maturing - he's still somewhat of an innocent, but he is becoming more aware of light and dark, and shades of grey. Even Max, always heroic to Ukiah, causes him moments of disquiet here. But the essence of Ukiah is the same - someone who loves fiercely and loyally, and must protect those he loves at all costs. And even those that are Pack come to respect that element in him. I missed some of the characters in Alien Taste, especially Indigo who had to 'stay at home and mind the child' (urgh! Considering Indigo's steely strength I have to say I didn't like this passive role for her, but this is a very mild niggle). But meeting Magic Boy's family more than made up for it, and Max's own secondary story was excellent. Once again, in an author that clearly knows the seedy side of life, I really enjoyed that although bad things happened to good people, for those I really cared about Ukiah was eventually able to make it right - this time with help from Jared. Ukiah reallyis a true hero, overcoming the odds and fighting for what he sees as right. I enjoyed this book every bit as much as the first one, and am looking forward with great anticipation to reading the next (Bitter Waters).	2003-02-13
US	52079418	R7PXLUDK9GXTW	0380762609	916074303	All I Need Is You (Straton Family)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Cowgirl and City Boy	Casey Straton is out to prove something to her dad - that she as a woman could run the ranch she and her siblings have inherited just fine.  To do so, she has run away from home (yeah, real mature) and taken up bounty hunting.  No dummy, she wears mens outfits and has cut her hair short - although she's never SAID she's a male, she knows that is the impression that others get from her new look.<br />Damian Rutledge III has come west seeking revenge and needs to find a criminal and take him to justice.  However, the West is harsh on `greenhorns' and he soon finds himself in need of the assistance of the bounty hunter they call `Kid'.<br />How Damian stumbles across Casey, how they travel together in search of bounty and find more than they bargain for is told with Lindsey's customary charm and ability with romance.  I found the tale to be a gentle romance with a light touch of steaminess, I doubt any of which would offend.   It didn't exactly rock my world, but it did keep me interested from start to finish.	2003-02-13
US	52079418	R26OE9VEKGO1HJ	0440224349	619929510	No Decent Gentleman	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Standard stuff, amusing enough	The book opens with the death ruled as being suicide of Sabrina Savages adopted father.  Sabrina and her sister are attempting to get their father an honourable burial, but are being thwarted by both their parish priest and their good friend.  Adam, Marquess of Stonehurst proves himself a saviour when he arrives and helps Sabrina toll the bell for her father.  The two have not met before, but it emerges that Adam was on his way to meet with the Savage family.  Further, that their families have long arranged the betrothal of the two.  Drawn to Adam, Sabrina nonetheless vows not to marry until her fathers death is proven to be the murder she and her sister know that it must be.  Further, she will marry Adam only if she cannot find a more suitable fiancé among Londons ton.  Adam knows she will not, and agrees to her conditions.  But Adam is not entirely what he seems.  Sabrina hates lies, but it seems that all those about her are lying in some way or another (except for her sister) and she has to sort through the lies, find the villain and establish her fathers good name before she can forgive and find happiness with her new husband. <br />This is a standard enough Regency romance / murder mystery with enough of each to keep readers of each genre happy I should think.  There are some interesting twists (Sabrinas birth father) although conversely there is also much that is predictable (her birth mother).  Sabrina is a good Regency character, with her manic baking spells and good humour.  Its not a book to hold you spellbound from start to finish, but is nonetheless a good way to spend a couple of hours.	2003-02-12
US	52079418	R2YWACED91VFDX	0385730012	679608898	Bringing up the Bones	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent 'recovery' story	Bridget Edelstein has just lost a lifelong friend - Benji - to a fatal car accident. For the previous 9 months they had been boyfriend / girlfriend, if reluctantly on Benji's behalf. A few days before he died, Benji wrote a 'Dear Jane' letter. It was all over. And now Benji has gone and died, so that is all it will ever be. Over.<br />Zeises tells a story of grief, rage and getting on with life after a great loss very well. Her characters, including the lead character, are completely human, warts and all, acting and reacting from an emotional base. Bridget's confusion, anger, grief and love are expressed very well, as indeed are her perceptions of the motivations of others, as they touch her own life. There is a great deal of room for the reader to bring their own experiences into their perception of the situation between Bridget and Benji, Bridget and new boyfriend Jasper, Bridget and Benji's family and where they are in the process of overcoming such a loss. Again, the reader can bring in their own psychological analysis of other characters motivations if you can remove Bridget's perceptions from them, viewed as they are through her eyes.<br />Serious issues are dealt with in this book, and realistically. Bridget is by no means perfect, and neither are any other characters - perhaps with the exception of Jasper! I liked this as a truly human story, and one that should touch the hearts of every reader, even as you might want shout at Bridget at some of the thoughts she has and decisions she takes.	2003-02-07
US	52079418	R2Z3VIPUWHK84T	067187845X	291308281	Memory (Miles Vorkosigan Adventures)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Miles grows up	Following his death in `Mirror Dance', Miles finds that there are complications to his recovery - complications that lead to near-disaster on a Dendarii mission.  Rather than revealing all to Simon Illyan, Miles attempts a cover up.  Found out, he is released from military service.  The `little admiral' must now cease to exist.<br />It is time for Lord Vorkosigan to come into his own, as a crisis develops over the life of Simon Illyan, as Simon's memory chip appears to go into meltdown.  Miles is forced to take drastic action, with the aid of the Emperor, action which ultimately leads to his redemption. And finally Lord Vorkosigan gets a little of the respect that is due to him for his service.<br />Much less action in this book than previously in the series, the main point of interest aside from trying to work out who if anyone is the baddie here, is the internalisation of Mile's struggle to integrate Admiral Naismmith and Lord Vorkosigan into `Miles'.  The battle is internal and at one hilarious point also external.  It is something very different from the previous books in the series, and clearly key to the next phase in Miles' life.  He really comes into his own here, and the conflict is ultimately resolved peacefully, if not without losses.<br />A great addition to the series, if a little slower paced and with less external action than usual.  It's about time Miles matured - it will be interesting to see where he goes next.	2003-01-29
US	52079418	R1IL276S7797IL	0505523388	202269657	Tonight or Never (Legendary Lovers)	Books	4	31	31	N	N	Hugely funny, peopled with eccentrics	Here's a coming of age story - a cross between `Sabrina' and `The Scarlet Pimpernel'.  Chloe - part French by birth, very French in temperament - has been in love with her friend Viscount John Sexton for years.  Being a determined woman, who knows to get what she wants takes some risks, Chloe removes herself from his circle for a year and a half, time for her to mature from girl to woman, so that she can return as something more than a friend in John's eyes.<br />John, the `Lord of Sex', but not much else as his father gambled away his inheritance, is a rouge and libertine.  He is well known amongst the ton for his affairs, and his nickname is of long standing.  Chloe has always been dear to John, and is very much valued as a friend.  He is startled by her transformation, but stunned by her admission that she wants to be just like him - in effect, Lady Sex.  Chloe manipulates John into agreeing to marry her, so that she will be free to follow this path (never for one minute actually planning to go through with it).  John agrees, because he cannot countenance Chloe putting her proposal to anyone else.  And once he views Chloe as a sexual being, he finds he wants her for himself, and not to share.  With Chloe comes her house, estate and charming, naughty grandmother, and household of eccentrics - all of whom John realises have made him feel at home.  But not as much as Chloe does.  <br />It's a simple story, and Dara Joy tells it well.  There is plenty of steaminess in the book, as you'd expect from the Lord and Lady of Sex, and this is told with Joy's customary straightforward erotic style - not flowery or embellished, just hot.  <br />The fun part is the escape from tragedy that is the French revolution and guillotine for the aristocracy, as more and more of those friends of Chloe's family rescued from jail and certain death by the Black Rose find sanctuary at their home.  As they descend, much fun is had by Joy as they all attempt to get along.  I particularly enjoyed the 7 Cyndreac brothers, and Baronne Dufond's hair accessories.  Ms Joy clearly had fun writing this book, and it was also a joy to read.	2003-01-23
US	52079418	R2NGN5L70LWZKN	0758201346	875254247	I Love Bad Boys	Books	5	18	19	N	N	When Bad is so Good	A collection of 3 novellas of erotic romance.  There is a highish price tag on this trilogy, but it is definitely worth it if `hot' is your bag, as these steamy stories are great representatives of their type.<br />`Indulge Me' is the second story of three that Foster is telling about 3 friends who make a bet to visit a newly opened porn shop in their squeaky clean middle America town.  Becky Harte's is the middle story (it doesn't take any psychic talent to forsee that the 3 stories will probably be amalgamated into one volume and reprinted by the publisher at a later date - like `The Winston Brothers').  Becky is quiet, shy and hiding something.  She needs to find someone who is into bondage in order to release her inhibitions and let herself go wild.  George Westin has fancied Becky the entire time they'd been working for the same company, but was convinced Becky did not reciprocate his interest.  When he found out from a friend what Becky was planning, George resolved to become her partner.  Only he thought that she would be the one tied up... but that was not Becky's plan at all.<br />`Naughty by Night' tells the story of Chloe Anderson and Gabe Mackenzie, ex friends and almost lovers.  The trust between them was shattered six years ago when Gabe appeared to lead Chloe along and then dump her, then heading out of town to Chicago, where he has since made a name for himself as a sports agent.  They still know each other through Chloe's brothers, but are no longer truly friends and see each other very infrequently.  He's in town again, at the poker game that Chloe and her brothers play weekly.  And something seems to have changed - the sexually charged atmosphere always simmering between them has jumped up a notch or twelve.  Ultimately more than money is bet, and now Gabe is hers for 3 hot dates.  Dates that Chloe means to bring things to a boil and sear Gabe from her system once and for all.  You know what they say about the best laid plans...<br />`And When They Were Bad' is about Cameron James IV, who has had a very bad year.  He's now vacationing at Intimacies, a chance to lose the `good boy' that he's been all his life and find his wild side at this private club where anything goes.  Allison Walker is hardly the woman of his fantasies - a bit clumsy, always getting herself into deep water, and physically not his type.  And yet he can't seem to stop himself from helping her out, can't seem to avoid running into her, and can't seem to get her out of his mind, until the situation presents itself when he can act on his surprising attraction.<br />I liked all 3 stories, although the first and last were my favourites because they featured shy or insecure women who came into their own.  And as for heat - phew!	2003-01-23
US	52079418	R1HNYZE8APB8Z0	0671578286	644110908	Cordelia's Honor	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fantastic chronological start to an outstanding series	It's fun to follow a series you enjoy from the publishing of the first novel, where you can feel your enjoyment grows with the evolution of the series - I feel like I'm in on the secret of how good the series is from the start.  But what a joy it is to find an established series and gorge yourself on it to repletion.  This is what I have found with the reading of this the first 2 books combined into one volume of the multi Hugo award winning series Vorkosigan Series.  It is densely written, full of emotions, politics (yes, Bjuold is able to successfully merge the two), military manoeuvrings and to some extent science.  Something for every reader of both science fantasy, and I think also science fiction.<br />These 2 books (Shards of Honor and Barrayar) are well paired together.  They feature the story of how Cordelia Naismith, eventually Mile's mother, comes to meet Lord Aral Vorkosigan.  In Shards of Honor the two `enemies' come to find each other, to survive physical hardship together, and to conquer their emotional pain and fear together. Literally from different worlds, they must play the star crossed pair for most of the book, and Bjuold describes well the pain and loss that Cordelia feels, as the book is told entirely from her viewpoint.  Although at first she decides to return to her own `side' in the interplanetary war, ultimately she joins Aral in Barrayar - there is no doubt of the joy they find in each other.  Her leaving her home is not without cost, but the scene in the pavilion where she and Aral come together at last is the most touching of the book.<br />Barrayar extends from that start, showing Aral and Cordelia's new life together on Barrayar.  The feelings of homesickness she undergoes, and regret for the loss of the superior facilities - especially medical - of her own planet are a running theme of the book, as they would be in real life.  The politics are less complicated here - I sometimes got lost in `Shards of Honor' on this point - but nonetheless the foundation of the plot line.  Aral is now Regent to the young emperor, and the political intrigues that job brings touches on all aspects of their lives.  Aral and Cordelia have to find their feet in a slippery political sphere, and it is not without cost that they do so.  Cost to innocents.  There are more players here, and if you can work your way past the many `Vor' prefixes (ruling caste) to sort out the individual players, in this book I found I got to know them more than in `Shards of Honor' - particularly Sergeant Bothari,  so badly damaged and strange (a unique relationship with Cordelia), Kou and Drou.  Bjuold is not afraid to have characters come to an untimely end, as many military stories must, and even - or maybe especially - those on `the right side'.  <br />I loved these 2 stories, and the series promises to be a fantastic one.	2003-01-23
US	52079418	R1GSOUER26N2U9	0743419162	604430790	Fanning the Flame	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Murder, Mystery and Romance combine	What I like about Kat Martin is that she can write a good, seemingly straight genre book, and take it that little bit further into something more.  Here in the sequel to `The Fire Inside', a Regency romance is thoroughly intertwined with murder, mystery and the very likely incarceration of the central female character.<br />Jillian Whitney, well born but now broke, had found an unlikely heroic figure in her kindly guardian.  Unfortunately, most of the ton interpreted their relationship as being that of a physical nature, and Jillian's reputation was in tatters.  Adam Hawthorne, the wealthy Earl of Blackwood, also thinks this of the relationship, and is in the process of trying to have her switch protectors when her guardian is killed.<br />Surprising them both with an altruistic streak, Adam takes Jillian in and offers her his protection while the murder is investigated.  During this time the two get to know each other and grow closer.  The situation is muddied by Jillian's now ruined reputation, the proving of her innocence, and the effect any relationship between them might have on his family.<br />The secondary characters are as interesting as the main two, with Adam's sister Maggie's own romance and the relationship between brother and sister being an engaging secondary line to the main story.<br />Although this book is a sequel, it stands alone as a fully fleshed out story in it's own right. If you enjoy a good murder mystery story, I'm sure you'll enjoy this tale as much as readers of Regency romance will.	2002-12-13
US	52079418	R37FHMIEJ5OBTV	0440235626	319402260	The Ruthless Charmer (The Rogues of Regent Street, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great addition to the series	The Ruthless Charmer starts at the same point as `The Dangerous Gentleman', with the death of one of the Rogues of Regent Street, Phillip.  This is Julian Dane's story.  Of the four Rogues, Julian is the most suave ladies man of the group.  He always gets the girl.  He's raised his sisters, who are fast friends with one Claudia Whitney, whom Julian hasn't seen for a time now that his sisters are older and with the exception of one, live away from his residence.  <br />Julian is wracked with guilt over Phillip's death, because through the downward spiral, Julian was at Phillip's side, drinking and partying with him and just not realising the desperation that Phillip was feeling.  Add to that a large portion of jealousy that Phillip received the attention of the lovely Claudia, just as Julian himself realised what a jewel had been hiding in plain sight.<br />Claudia, for her part, had always had a huge crush on Julian, but knew that nothing would ever come of it.  Julian, knowing Phillip's dire financial striates, had warned Claudia from Phillip, which she misinterpreted.  Following Phillip's death, Claudia holds Julian at least partly responsible for exactly the same reason Julian blames himself - because he was there, right next to Phillip.<br />There are several things that these two must overcome.  Their own grief, the misconceptions that they have for each other, the scandal they are part of that forces their marriage to save Claudia's reputation, and then the situation that Claudia involves herself in which causes Julian's sister to be placed in harms way.  Each have rather violent feelings towards each other for most of the book and for the most part they are negative ones - hurt, anger and jealousy.  This means that the love they also feel for each other is equally as compelling and deep, but the hurt and anger especially do seem to collect on top of each other until the reader wonders how they will ever pull out of it.<br />London has written another good story, full of powerful emotion and a book that builds on a former story and sets up the next, while being able to fully explore the relationship of the central characters in it's own right.	2002-12-13
US	52079418	R375O7EY9VQ4M8	0380756269	222985860	Man of My Dreams	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Romance, humour, abduction.	A story told with Lindsey's customary touches of humour and occasional tongue in cheek, here is another enjoyable example of her work.  <br />Megan Penworthy is a squire's daughter, pampered and spoiled by her father.  A stunning beauty, she is accustomed to men flocking to `worship at her feet' as they say.  She has lost many female friends and endured several cuts direct because of females not wanting her to be competition.  The only one who seems to truly understand her is her best friend Tiffanny, with whom she's been fast friends since childhood.  Feeling that she's endured one set down too many from the society matron of the of the parish, Megan decides to play on her beauty for once, to snag a Duke so that she can come back to rub her elevation in the nose of `Lady O'.   She chooses Ambrose St. James as her target, as she admires his estate (which she visited at age 12) and his stables.  In the meanwhile, Devlin Jefferys shows up, determined to ask a favour of the squire so that he can hide in the country for a while to avoid having to shoot his best friend.  Devlin is using a false name and position as a horse breeder to hide - can you guess who he really is?  Now what do you think he feels about the Duke seemingly being targeted sight unseen, merely because of his possessions?<br />Much about this storyline is childish in a `nya nya' kind of way.  The story is rescued from this being a genuine problem by the humour that Lindsey invests in it, and the strong friendship between Megan and Tiffanny.  I also found her abduction by Lachlan (who gets his own story in `Love Me Forever') to be an unexpected gem.  Lindsey is one of my favourite authors, and I think she pulls this one off, but I did often find both Megan and Devlin to be like two toddlers sticking their tongues out at each other in the playground, although they seemed to enjoy their arguments and the passions that resulted!	2002-12-05
US	52079418	RRKRBU5Y06HKC	0451458370	874295287	Alien Taste (Ukiah Oregon, Book 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Buy this Book!	What a fantastic story this is. There is something for anyone - mystery, sci fi, a good dollop of romance. It reminds me a bit of Jim Butcher's series featuring wizard-private investigator Harry Dresden, although all it really shares is that Ukiah is also a PI with something 'extra'.<br />Ukiah Oregon has run with the wolves - literally being raised by them until his teens - and only a few short years ago was discovered by a woman who was to become his mother. He now is dedicated to his family, to his partner Max and their PI partnership. He's a tracker, and a good one. More than that - there is no one who can match his tracking skills. After all, no one else can track identifying the DNA of the lost by touch alone, as Ukiah can. A serious case is referred to them. Ukiah and Max have to track a missing woman. Someone who it appears has gone completely mad, killing her friends / housemates and escaping into the woods. Ukiah identifies in her blood that she seems to have some kind of invasive virus. Using her blood he tracks her, finds her - and that's when the weirdness starts.<br />I enjoyed all the characters peopling the book, from Ukiah's unusual family structure to the woman he picks to love. Here is a strong, masculine male that actually seems to enjoy showing people that he loves them. The plot is carefully paced as befuddlement turns into excitement builds on danger and culminates into mega risk, ultimately making me wonder what really is out there.<br />The concept is unique and will grip you from the start. The opening concept of the book (a man raised by wolves) may not seem on the surface to be so different, but the treatment and development of the story definitely is. There are some interesting themes including what makes a family, and what it is to be human. I loved the gradual revelation of the meat of the story. Spencer resisted the opportunity to shock the reader with sudden revelations, and instead we learned with Ukiah. Unusually, most of the people Ukiah cares deeply about actually seem to deserve the depth of his feeling, being pretty great people in themselves which I liked it a lot - another resistance of 'pat' writing from Spencer as there are no betrayals from within.<br />This is a great book, that left me with a couple of questions, a couple of 'huh's, and a great deal of satisfaction. I'm looking forward to go on reading of Ukiah in 'Tainted Trail'.	2002-12-02
US	52079418	R2F2WA70DGUB2K	0380811979	629386800	Rules of Surrender (Governess Brides, Book 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Opening of the Distinguished Academy of Governesses	Lady Charlotte Dalrumple is co-proprietor of the Distinguished Academy of Governesses, and a more morally upright, correct young woman would be hard to find.  The first client of the Academy is Adorna, Vicountess Ruskin (remember Jane's sister in `That Scandelous Evening'?).  Adorna engages `Miss Priss' as governess to her two young grandchildren, newly arrived from El Bahar, and more than a little different from the usual young English nobility.  What Adorna hasn't told Lady Charlotte is that she will also be required to remind the children's widowed father, Lord Wynter Ruskin, of proper English behaviour.  The problem for Lady Charlotte is her attraction to the man of the house, an attraction that could lead to a repeat ruining of her reputation, already in tatters due to the events of nine years previously, which would mean that she would have to leave England to continue to survive.  Lord Ruskin, on his part, soon finds exactly the role he wants his `Lady Miss Charlotte' to occupy - that of his wife.<br />Christina Dodd is certainly very comfortable writing in this period, and as the start of the DAoG series, this book is a treat.  Lord Ruskin is a very different kind of central male character, due to his time spent abroad and his acquisition of much of the culture of the Bedouins.  He has some rather strange concepts and a very straightforward approach to getting what he wants - leaving gasps, mayhem and delicious scandal in his wake.  Lady Charlotte is enjoyable as a strong minded woman who is able to view the world and her place in it very clearly, and unusually too, is able to recognise that people change, and that even events that have hurt or affected her deeply may be interpreted differently from a new perspective.  It's a hard lesson, and a sign of maturity.  Her love of the children and her pain at Wynter's apparent inability to love her are very well expressed by Dodd, who has written another winner.	2002-11-25
US	52079418	R1M98VOHNF8PDL	0380725711	745711270	Say You Love Me (Malory, No. 5)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Continuing the fabulous Malory series	The Malory's are a fun family to read about, and the good times continue with this installment.  Kelsey Langton thinks she is saving the aunt and uncle that took she and her sister in following the death of their parents when she puts herself on the auction block and sells herself to the highest bidder.  Her uncle had lost all his money gambling, and Kelsey and Jean were already living on the charity of their relatives.  Kelsey goes into this bargain fully aware that her reputation will hereafter be hopelessly ruined, and there will be no marriage in her future, but she does not hesitate to sacrifice her future for her family's.  Lord Derek Malory is the one who has bought the right to Kelsey, without knowing she is from `good' family.  Derek is keen to avoid scandal for the sake of his own family (who cannot seem to avoid it) so is happy to keep a low profile.   With his family, he should have known that would prove impossible...<br />I really didn't like Kelsey's uncle Elliott who came up with the idea of selling off his niece to save his own skin.  Of course if he hadn't (as mentioned near the end of the book) then there would be no story.  The Malory's are definitely the factor that lifts this book from an enjoyable but fairly standard Regency romance, to something more.  Something funny, mischievous and more light hearted.  Which is not to say that the book wouldn't have been a good story without them, but they made it so much better - the various arguments, teasing and pulling together in the face of adversity made me almost homesick.	2002-11-25
US	52079418	R1DCWBXLCF49DA	0373835396	928905497	Four In Hand	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A great romance - 4 great romances!	Stephanie Laurens has done it again. Or, as she in fact wrote it earlier in her career (this was the second book Laurens ever wrote), she has set the precedent for her future work. A well written, fast paced Regency Romance - in fact four for the price of one.<br />Max Rotherbridge inherited more than a dukedom on the death of his father eighteen months previous to the opening of the book - unknown to him he also inherited 4 wards. An established rake, he is initially dismayed to learn of his responsibilities, but dismay quickly turns into something else when he is presented with the eldest of the four sisters, Caroline Twinning.<br />It appears that Twinnings have something of a thing for rakes, as the four gorgeous sisters cut a swath through the ton and have the men at their feet. They may seem young, with the exception of 26 year old Caroline, but their eighteen months in America have given them a great deal of polish, and the freedom to discover what it is they really want in life.<br />This is a truly delightful tale and for me the principle enjoyment is the relationship between the females in the story. Set in a time when women rarely triumphed, here Caroline and her sisters Sarah, Arabella & Lizzy, their chaperone (Max's aunt) and the friends they make in London are able to set their goals, pursue and obtain them - even if it takes a little scheming and risk to get what they want. Each is a true character in their own right, and yet takes comfort in the relationship with their sisters (in the modern sense). Their story is told with a great deal of humour and style.<br />There has to be some sacrifice in squeezing four stories into one volume. This is firstly that Caroline and Max's is the main romance - the other three are something more than subplots and yet slightly less than a fully developed story in their own right. And finally, of course, is the improbability that all four romances should resolve themselves at the same time. To some extent this is satisfactorily dealt with by making the suitors either friends or relatives of Max. Each romance develops with a different plan of attack, and the charming thing is that although more confident than the typical deb, none of the four women are sure they will be able to hold out for marriage, as they themselves fall in love.<br />If you enjoy romance and the Regency genre, you will enjoy this well written example. Regular readers of Laurens will not be disappointed - I certainly wasn't.	2002-11-20
US	52079418	R2SYP3RRGHKOGV	0441009840	71624158	Deceptions (Laws of the Blood, Book 4)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Creditable fourth in the series	Olympias is one of the oldest of the Enforcer vampires, and responsible for much of the administration and protection of the American sects.  Her base of Washington DC is used to gauge how well the US government, in particular their more covert ops, know about them.  As an experienced Enforcer, Olympias is a ruthless predator, protective of her kind but also a bit weary of the necessity of enforcing the laws.  Michael Falconer is part of a study of Walking - astral projecting to covertly study / spy / rescue etc on behalf of the US government.  He's also the object of lust of one of the junior vampires, and Olympias must check if he is suitable to become a love bunny.  Oddly, for a woman who thought herself past such things, Olympias finds she wants the bunny for her own.  And this `weakness' gives a way in for someone from the under world to exploit the potential conflict.  <br />The story is split between three central lines - Olympias and Michael, Sara (Olympias human assistant / slave) and Andrew -  the vampire that wants to die Andrew - and the human companion who wants to rule it all some day.  Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the book.  I love the original concept of the series and the essentially predatory nature of the Enforcers and all the positives and negatives that brings into their relationship with mortal humans.  There is an underlying dark nature to this series that I enjoy greatly.  In this book, however, the split in concentration between the characters lead to me becoming less involved with them.  I would begin to get into their story, and the focus would switch to another.<br />I've read and greatly enjoyed the previous 3 books in the Laws of the Blood series.  The fourth is not as intense as the previous three books, but is certainly worth reading as a part of the series.  I'm not convinced if someone new to the series would get the most out of the book that the knowledge of at least one of the earlier three would bring to the reading of this one,but especially for fans of the series this book is a must.	2002-11-19
US	52079418	R16SNME48LC0YM	0380790912	627948354	That Scandalous Evening: The Governess Brides (Governess Brides Series)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Strong Female character enlivens the Regency world	Christina Dodd and indeed many of her contemporaries delight in bringing us female characters who show strength and independence in the mans world that was the Regency era.  But here that truly is the best thing about the very enjoyable story that is `That Scandalous Evening'.<br />Jane Higgenbothem was completely ruined 11 years prior to the opening of the book, when as a result of a nude sculpture she made of the man she worshiped as a god (Jane's words, not mine), her subsequent behaviour and the resultant public scandal, Jane fled the fashionable ton.  He sister died shortly after, and Jane has spent the intervening years sketching, painting, bringing up her niece, and spending a miserable time as unpaid housekeeper to her penny pinching brother in law.  With the exception of the joy of spending time with her niece, she has generally lived in a state of near poverty and dependence on an unwilling relative.  Now, however, it is time to launch Adorna in society, and her brother in law has told Jane that she will not be welcome in his house once Adorna is safely married.<br />The object of her desire, Lord Blackburn, more than any embarrassment at the scandal per se, was scandalised instead by a singular inaccuracy of the statue, that made him a laughingstock.  Now hardened and saddened by his experiences at war, he has returned to London a more weary, more mature individual.  He meets up with Jane and is intrigued by her, but more than that recognises that the protection of the resurrection of their scandal may enable him the breathing room to scour the ton for a suspected traitor and spy.   <br />I knew I'd like the book, because Dodd wrote it and I've enjoyed every other that I read.  That turned out to be the case of course, but I enjoyed it even more than I thought.  Jane is such an intense person, who feels things so deeply, so passionate in her rages and hurts, so intense about her art (she has not sculpted since That Scandalous Evening.  As soon as she does, she gets into trouble again).  The call of the art of Europe is a genuinely strong one, and her love for Adorna, her beloved dead sisters child, is all that holds her to England.  Even as she falls in love again with Blackburn, she is torn by her love for and joy in her art.<br />We get inside Blackburn's head on occasion, which was necessary for me to like him (otherwise I'd have to wonder what Jane saw in him).  Jane's view of him is remarkably perceptive, except of course that she has little idea of the depth and warmth of his feelings for her. <br />It is delicious to become so involved in a character, and caught up in the emotional storm with them.  I very much enjoyed this book for that reason, and highly recommend it to all readers of romance.	2002-11-18
US	52079418	R159Q09NMLD3YF	0812575482	649560585	Through Wolf's Eyes (Wolf, Book 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Well told, complex, enjoyable tale	Having stumbled across this book in a store and read it, I have immediately ordered the sequel 'Wolf's Head, Wolf's Heart' via Amazon. Firekeeper has been raised by Royal wolves - bigger, stronger, more intelligent than their 'cousins' - since she was 5 years old. Her home is on the outlying fringes of Hawk's Haven territory, and the monarch of that kingdom, now without heirs, has sent a search party to investigate his disowned son's venture to find and establish a keep of his own. Unfortunately the investigating team find the remains of the fire that burnt out the small settlement, but due to the natural curiosity and courage of wolves, Firekeeper reveals herself to them. Knowing that the Prince had a daughter, the team take home the potential heir and her attendant brother wolf.<br />This is a big book in more than pages, largely political (which is slightly weird when more than one of the central characters are under 20 years old) and as with politics, and intriguing mix of story lines, motivations and machinations for power. The two strengths of the work for me are firstly that Firekeeper really IS a wolf. She thinks of herself as one, although she longs to be a wolf in body as well as in spirit, and her pack of wolves also think of her as a wolf. She is able to communicate with the wolves on wolf terms, which is a major strength for Firekeeper as of course the other humans are unable to 'speak their language' and much wisdom is purveyed by the animals. The way Firekeeper looks at people and their behaviour is always coloured by her upbringing, which is extremely interesting as a reader as Firekeeper's perceptions are so altered from human. Even other animals such as the falcon Elation often describe Firekeepers behaviour in wolf terms. It is wolf strengths that she admires most in humans - she comes to respect King Tedric because in spite of his weaker appearance (which would not make him strong in the wolf world) he is clearly a One wolf - primary in his pack.<br />Firekeeper is only fifteen - although very mature due to her survival in the wild - and a wolf, so it is necessary to have other characters tell the tale as well. This is the other strength of the book for me - Lindskold lets the reader know as each line of the story develops the full motivations of each character - what they are planning, why they are doing it, and the outcome they dream of. Sometimes this can be a mistake - there are few surprises, and no sudden twists here, events seem to unfold as a natural progression of the knowledge which has been revealed to the reader - but not in this case. Each person is very distinct to the reader because we get to know what makes them tick. There are so many threads weaving the fabric of the story together that the more we know about each character, the more colourful and complex we find the tale.<br />I did find it difficult to keep the characters straight sometimes, especially the youngest and lesser characters that did not have their own voice in the story, and there are a lot of people in the tale. This was resolved in part by the Glossary of Characters in the back (although it can interrupt enjoyment of a book to have to refer to such - a small price to pay). I found 'Through Wolf's Eyes' a complex blend of character and plot driven work, and I enjoyed it tremendously.	2002-11-15
US	52079418	R2ANFDQYZQ36PL	0380762595	742024238	Until Forever (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Lindsey does time travel	Professor Roseleen White loves her subject of medieval history.  She buys an ancient cursed Scandinavian sword, and in doing so conjures it's owner, a magnificent Viking warrior, Thor's brother Thorn.  Thorn is understandably somewhat bitter about the owners of the sword, when they are female he is forced to do their bidding.  Roseleen is different, as Thorn quickly discovers, and the issue of personal power between them quickly becomes something of a more sensual nature.  Roseleen shows great courage and trust by loaning the sword to Thorn, which enables him to take her back in time with him, to allow her to experience the time of William the Conqueror, and even meet the man himself.  For a historian, it is a great temptation.  Until, on returning to her own time, Roseleen discovers she has altered reality.  The present she has returned to is not hers at all.  Now they must go back, to fix what they have changed...<br />Johanna Lindsey is an author not afraid to try something new, and I enjoy that each of her books can bring something fresh to a sometimes tired tale - after all, Vikings, time travel and medieval tales all abound, but few can successfully pull off a mixing of the three.  Lindsey can and does.  The book is very thoroughly researched, and brings out some interesting theories on changing the events of the past, and even gives thought to possible ways that Roseleen and Thor might be able to stay together, without one of them being under a curse!  The culmination is an interesting choice to resolve the issue.<br />Roseleen and Thor are the only characters with any depth to them, but they engage with each other well and I generally did not notice the lack of significant interaction with other characters, Roseleen's brother David and friend Gail being very much secondary characters.<br />A well thought out, well planned and well researched read.	2002-10-29
US	52079418	R1MH7BQSWHNK78	0505525224	384893276	Whispers in the Stars	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Enjoyable romance	Reminicient of Cory Daniells 'Broken Vows' but lacking the depth and complexity of that work, 'Whispers in the Stars' also features a white-haired, 'witch' with strange coloured eyes ex-ruler who has to bow to the conquering warrior by marrying him to save her people.  Lady Zara, in common with all the solely female high priestess monarchs of her line, has the ability to telepathically tune into the spiritual health of her world.  Their world is a peaceful and simple one, but due to a political choice she has made, ending her planet's neutral status, Zara must marry a Commander of the Galactic Guard - Logan.  Logan is a warrior, a fighter, and his life and his thinking is very linear.  He goes from one mission to the next, one objective for him leads in a straight line to the next.  Zara prefers to let her instincts be her guide.<br />I like that neither of these two opposites are perfect.  Logan is too used to commanding, and would not make an ideal monarch without becoming closer to the people he ruled - compromise is not in his vocabulary.  Zara, on the other hand, is rather close minded about perceiving the vulnerability of a 'utopia' type world with few defences, and more than a little naïve - a natural consequence of living a simple, uncluttered life.<br />Luckily for both of them, they are strongly attracted to each other from the first.  For all his black and white thinking, Logan surprisingly accepts the 'witchy' aspects of his wife's unusual gifts from the start although he does not understand the full extent of these gifts, and Zara is accustomed to taking the wishes of others into account sometimes over her own preferences.  Although stubborn, she is not unbending, and Zara is aware that she needs Logan, if only because of the strength of the bonding process that their joining initiates.  For the good of their marriage, their planet and potentially the health of their quadrant these two have to overcome distrust, secrets and find their way to a path they can both travel down together.<br />The story is a simple one, and not difficult to follow or anticipate.  It is a well told and enjoyable light romantic read.  I found the ending a little anti-climatic, most likely because it is so clear what the end will be.  However, the emotional and sensual side of the tale is very well told, and the heat between Logan and Zara is definitely the best thing about the book.	2002-10-23
US	52079418	R3964Y9WL0RUOT	0061067156	248310032	The Captive (The Secret Circle #2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good middle of an excellent series	This book does all that the middle part of a trilogy does.  It brings insight into characters, advances the plot, identifies the threat and begins to draw the group together.  Only to bust them apart towards the end, or are they?<br />The Captive in the piece is Cassie, who is being blackmailed by Faye.  There is a dark force let loose, and it is affecting the Outsiders and those of the Coven.  Things are not quite so black and white any more, except of course that Faye and Diana are like sunshine and shadow - the 'hero' and 'villain' of the piece.   Cassie's feelings of guilt and unhappiness at her deception of Diana is well explored, and getting to know the Henderson brothers, Deborah, Melonie and in particular Nick better was worth reading the book for.<br />The ending of the book was definitely the climax of the piece and will lead the final book off to a running start.  All in all a successful 'middle' book, and most definitely to be read as part of the trilogy.	2002-10-23
US	52079418	R2RPDB9QB17ZCR	0440235618	133960997	The Dangerous Gentleman (Rogues of Regent Street, Book 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Teetering over a fine line	Adrian Spence was abused by his father as a child, as was his mother.  He is conscious of the preference of his father for his younger brother Benedict and knows that his father is simply waiting for an opportunity to disinherit him - not that wealthy Adrian will be left a pauper, but he is very fond of the entailed family estate.  Sure enough, one of Adrian's best friends, Phillip, who has been on a downward spiral for some time, manages to manipulate Adrian into defending his own life by taking that of Phillip's.  Although clearly self defence, Adrian's father seizes the opportunity to replace Adrian with his brother in the succession.  Adrian is already weighed down with grief and guilt - now he can add rage to the mix.  In retaliation, Adrian marries the woman his brother is about to offer for - Lilliana Dashell.  Lilliana has long held Adrian as her ideal, and it doesn't take much for her to be persuaded to marry him.  After the wedding the mask is off, and Lilliana realises that the ideals Adrian was spouting when he proposed were not how he really feels - indeed she begins to wonder if her new husband has any feelings at all.  Adrian recognises the mistake he made in marrying a `country bumpkin' to get back at his brother.  Benedict shows up with his own agenda to influence the two.  And then Adrian lets Lilliana know the real reason for the marriage - revenge, and that only.<br />All this and we're probably only a quarter into the book.  Adrian is a very complex, damaged character.  Contrast this with Lilliana, who is open, kind and compassionate, and is it any wonder Adrian lashes out at her?  It is only after Adrian is blinded in an accident, he comes to truly `see' the value of his new wife.  He has often regretted how badly he has treated her, but can't seem to stop himself.  <br />The book shows well the effects of grief, anger and guilt.  The treatment of Adrian is very well done - his character is undergoes an essential change and growth by the end ofthe book, so that he is finally able to feel and express himself.  Lilliana also grows from a rather naive country lass into a more assured woman, able to see (at last!) the potential motivations of others and to dip below the surface to discover the truth.<br />Adrian, however, is genuinely damaged through most of the book.  He says some truly appalling things to the woman he persuaded to marry him (no one forced him), and it's a testimony the excellent writing that I felt the blow of his words myself.  Physically, too, he intimidates his wife in one bedroom scene in particular.  It is in these two aspects of Adrian that treads a fine line between highlighting how Adrian is guilt ridden, hurt and full of suppressed feeling with no healthy way of expressing it, and having him lash out at his wife and not losing the reader's sympathy.  Personally I felt that sometimes the line was crossed - even when Adrian knows he has tender feelings for his wife, he seems unable to stop verbally hurting her.  And he knows it.  <br />Both of these characters grow over the course of the book, especially Adrian, and it is this that made the book worth reading for me as the action of the plot was pretty transparent.  There is much about the relationship I found disturbing.  But I felt that especially Adrian was a well written character, a believable individual who truly lived between these pages.  The book is also an interesting look into conventional Regency life - the behind the scenes neglect and abuse that unfortunately probably was a part of life for many of the time.  There is much to think about in this book, it's not your standard Regency romance.	2002-10-23
US	52079418	R1U1W05ZAIXPXE	0380793334	123766976	Joining (Shefford Series)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Something a little different from Lindsey norm	Milisant Crispin and Wulfric de Thorpe have been promised to each other since childhood.  Their fathers are excellent friends, and are consolidating their friendship through the marriage of their eldest children.  However, due to a mutually painful incident when they were children, neither Mili nor Wulf can stand the other.  They have avoided each other ever since. It is now some years past the time when they should have been wed, and Wulf's father has insisted that Wulf claim his reluctant bride.  Milisant is wild and different, disdainful of her being born female and the constraints it imposes on her.  She and Wulf discover they still have nothing in common.  She is wary of his size and power, convinced because of the pain she endured in their first (and only) meeting that Wulf will physically dominate and even harm her.  It leads her to be stubborn, aggressive and argumentative, stiff and unbending to any request.  Which does little to endear herself to Wulf.<br />Unknown to all, a third, unrelated party also does not want the marriage, and has conspired with non other than King John to ensure that it does not come about.  To do that, he must arrange for Milisant's death, something that he does not hesitate to do...<br />I found the book very well researched, from the description of the clothing to the history of King's Richard and John, and the gossip of the realm.  The court intrigue, although occupying only a few pages, was well done and set the plot in motion.  I liked that the `mystery' of the book had nothing to do with the central characters themselves, too.  The threat, although known in full to the reader, comes out of the blue to the characters themselves.  The story develops well, is peopled with enjoyable characters and sufficient humour.  I found especially touching where Milisant finally realises that Wulf would do anything NOT to see her hurt.  The development of feelings - positive and negative - between these two is completely believable. I alsoliked the approach taken with Mili, the feminist sub-plot which Lindsey has woven into the tale.<br />It is not a tale bursting with heat and passion (as Lindsey can do so well), rather more a discovery of feeling, and a fine tale firmly set in its period.  Something a little different from my previous reading by this author, but also very enjoyable.	2002-10-23
US	52079418	R3MGA1779R5YR7	0505524848	633933696	Enchantment (The Djinn Series, Book 3)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Takes a while to get into the story	Jack Montgomery (brother of Isis from 'More Than Magic') was truly freaked out when Darius used various spells on him, being unable to stop himself from performing whatever the spell asked of him.  Since that time, brilliant scientist Jack has dedicated himself to making a device that will leave him immune to the effects of Ma-at, the magic of Kaf, home world of the djinn.  The very night of his success he runs into Leila, who unknown to him has come to the Terran Earth expressly to meet Jack, and seduce him into giving her a baby (the Djinn rarely are able to produce offspring, but a human/djinn mix seems to work).  Beautiful Leila has not much ma-at, and wants someone to love, someone she need not play the role of confident seductress with.  She transports Jack back to Kaf, but his instinctive use of his new talisman takes away her ma-at and leaves them stranded in the rather hostile Tower Lands.  Jack must deal with being in a world of magic, when magic frankly terrifies him, and Leila must come to terms with being denied even the small portion of ma-at that she had - the rigours of camping, dust that cannot be removed with a thought, sleeping on stone and other hardships.  Jack is logical, scientific - Leila a creature of magic.  Would these two opposites attract?<br />And just when they were beginning to come to terms with each other, they come to a village full of djinni.  And Leila's ma-at returns.  Add to this Jack's suspicion that someone evil is amongst Leila's djinni friends, and their trust will soon be put to the test.<br />I liked the book best once Jack and Leila had others to interact with.  Their trek through the Tower Lands was necessary for them to get to know each other and come to have some measure of trust and growing feeling for each other before it was put to the test, but I was beginning to wonder if the action of the book would ever start.  It was sweet to see Leila responding to Jack's caring about of all things the health of her feet.  But there are a lot of pages spent on these few days.  However, once they get to the village, things begin to get going.  Their new feelings are explored and constantly tested.  New friends and old - Darius, Jarad, Isis and even Simon are joined by minstrel Zayne, and Jack's new pet rock Mistrock is certainly a bit of a character in his own right.<br />In my view the pace and events of the second half of the book make up for the necessary getting-to-know-you isolation and relative slowness of the first half.  I'd suggest that a reader first read `Wishes Come True' and `More Than Magic' because much of the benefit of the second half of this book is also rejoining old friends from these earlier works.  It's a good read if you've read at least More Than Magic, but I'm not sure I'd feel it was strong enough to make it without the support of the earlier work.	2002-10-14
US	52079418	R12UTG0D2KDGKE	0451457730	898233857	Stardoc	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fabulous start to a fascinating series	Stardoc is the opening book in the series of the same name.  It introduces us to  Dr Cherijo Grey Veil, a brilliant surgeon who needs to leave Earth and find sanctuary to escape from a personal and scientific betrayal by her father.  She accepts a position at Kevarsangia Two's FreeClinic, and like most Free Clinic's today, the conditions there are less than ideal.  Humans are a despised minority, and Cherijo has to prove herself professionally again and again, in sometimes hostile conditions.<br />Unfortunately, her father is a very powerful man, and he wants her back...<br />The strength of this story is Cherijo herself.  Her medical skills are brilliant, and the style reflects Viehl's medical and military background and this clearly in depth knowledge forms the backbone of the appeal of the book.  Her own struggles with her situation, her friendships, her obvious intelligence, her troubles and the power plays between species, between herself and her colleagues, the politics and the friends she makes are what the story is about, and here Cherijo is very human in her actions and reactions.<br />It's a great start to the series and a powerful book in itself.	2002-08-18
US	52079418	RTIAZXWW87G14	075990118X	56194588	Captive Hearts	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Overall an enjoyable read	Morgan Fontinara, son of the rulers of the planet Bellariss, is sent as a representative to assure potential allies of his planet's aid in the revolt against the Jotnar Alliance.  Bellariss had previously not taken part in any revolt attempts, their own defences confounding any attempt at invasion.  Alas, at the final planning meeting of the allies, they were discovered and Morgan was captured.  This is the opening of the book.  <br />Ariana Zoltan is the administrator of one of the slave camps on her home world of Cantara, a member planet of the Alliance, and after some preliminary torturing, Morgan was sent to her camp.  In a state of extreme duress, he found himself bonded to Ariana as she instinctively sought to aid him.<br />I had a big problem with having any sympathy for someone who would work on a slaver world, for all their distaste for it.  Ariana not only did so, but rose to a position of authority there.  Sure, she made conditions there better for the slaves than under previous administration, and admittedly she managed to save a slave or two here or there by selling them back to their families (first putting up the cash) but there seemed so much more that such a person could do in the same position - set up contacts, and establish an underground springs to mind.<br />Ariana and Morgan had a lot to work through - she in that due to her horrendous mother and upbringing could not bring herself to trust anyone, and Morgan because of his torture could not trust one of the enemy.  Even with the closeness of their bonding, they each hurt the other with their mistrust and behaviour that they each could not change due to their life experiences.  This continues well into the book and I found it to be very convincing - Michaels did not change the nature of the characters just because they had bonded.<br />The plans for the rebellion are in place, and with the help of Ariana, Morgan is able to fee the majority of the slaves at their camp.  Their own getaway did notgo so well, and Morgan, Ariana and fellow slave Chekron (who has reason to hate Ariana) are stranded in hostile territory on their own...<br />The story is an original one, tightly written and well paced - there is always something happening in terms of either plot or character development.  The secondary characters all have their own parts to play, some large, some small, and are each distinctly drawn. I did find the tone a bit stilted at first but it is worth persevering, as the reader will get drawn into the plot as it develops.<br />The story of Morgan's `friend' (implied close relative) Drake continues in `Real Magic'.	2002-08-05
