US	52089730	R1WRCVBKN5XMAT	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Wish the 7th Book was being published tomorrow...	What can I say?  Half Blood Prince (HBP) was as depressing and infuriariating as I expected it to be.  Yes, I expected the death that came, the injuries people sustained, and the hopelessness the characters encountered.  The darkness, the romance all of it was predictable but what I knew had to be.  However, one thing confused me and it's the overall lack of spirit Harry has in this book.  In two very important instances, I wanted to shout like Mad-Eye Moody in Goblet of Fire \\"BE DILIGENT! Evil's Everywhere!\\" <br />The book written in Rowling's trademark style captures your interest and keeps you entertained.  It reveals it's finesse in the heart-wrenching you feel over the characters' losses.  I'm still keenly feeling it after hours of finishing the book.  It's weird but the characters seemed deflated and less human in this book but honestly, I believe Rowling needed them to be that way because of the environment of the story.  Imagine Dementers feeding on everyone's happiness, checking the newspaper every day to see if someone you knew died or had been harmed.  How real or emotionally awake would you want to be?  I think that's the true charm of Rowling's writings.  Her characters are emotionally stunted because of the war with Voldemort and it shows in every inch of her writing.  She knows her characters and their feeling so intimately that it seeps into her descriptions and writings of them without her being so aware of it.  I disagree with the others that this made the book less likeable.  It made it more impressive. <br />Also, there was no doubt that Snape and Draco were going to have to play bigger parts in the future.  The Half Blood Prince was introduced and hardly worth mentioning in the title to me for his part in this book but as you know if you read the book he's definitly the central character to be followed in seven. <br />Overall, this book answers many questions that readers could have figured out on their own.  We knew a majority of what is revealed and are left with so many answers I'm baffled at how Rowling will manage the seventh book and satisfactorily end the story for her fans.  However, what's the true purpose of any book in a series, to make you want to read the next one.  And oh will I ever be there at midnight waiting in line for my copy!!!! <br />	2005-07-16
US	52089730	RVW8P1HF1GZQD	0060505249	793121371	Where's My Hero? (A Bow Street Novella)	Books	3	23	23	N	N	Smartly Packaged w/o Bookshelf Stamina	&quot;Where's my Hero?&quot; is a smartly packaged gimmick that indeed enticed me to buy it.  I'm forever complaining about how my favorite characters are secondary characters... and darn it all, I want to read their stories.  In this compilation I get my wish.  Too bad, the stories don't live up to the characters who inhabit them.<br />&quot;Against the Odds&quot; is Lisa Kleypas offering of Jake Linley.  He's a favorite from &quot;Someone to Watch Over Me.&quot;  Unfortunately for me, while I know I read &quot;Someone to Watch Over Me,&quot; I cannot remember his character.  Yet this offering while a bit sappy, and contrived still entertained me despite my faulty memory.  You see Lydia and Jake share a kiss at her engagement party which only enhances the ambivilience the two harbor for each other.  But after an enlightening trip in the wine cellar, the two fall in love with each other quite spectacularly.<br />&quot;Midsummer Knight&quot; is Kinley MacGregor offering of Simon the Wraith.  A familiar character from her book, &quot;Master of Desire.&quot;  Again I have to admit that I haven't read the previous novel so I was in no way attached to the characters of this story.  Decent enough, I thought it extremely prosaic and way too stuffy to keep my attention completely glued to the story.  Of course, Kinley MacGregor is well known for her gothic fare as Sherrilyn Kenyon and I think she may be having difficulty keeping her personas from influencing each other.  In this &quot;medieval&quot; fare, Simon impersonating his friend Lord Stryder, has been writing Lady Kenna.  An engagement is announced, and Lord Stryder has no idea how suddenly he has gained a fiancee.<br />&quot;A Tale of Two Sisters&quot; is Julia Quinn offering Ned Blython.  Here I am very familiar with the little punk who helped his cousin get into all kinds of trouble because of his own immature gambling style in &quot;Splendid.&quot;  He's grown wonderfully and Julia develops him deliciously into aconsumate rake in need of a bride.  This offering much more light-hearted and fun revels in its romance fare and succeeds where the above two do not.  Ned picking a wife out of duty  and not love finds himself falling for his fiancee's sister, Charlotte.  When things heat up with a bad poet and late night romp, Ned finds he can still capture the happiness of true love without hurting anyone in the process.<br />This book worth reading, might best be borrowed from the library.  I bought it from the store but after one read, quickly sold it on e-bay.  I enjoy Lisa Kleypas and Julia Quiin as wonderful historical writers.  Sherrilyn Kenyon aka Kinley MacGregor has never been a favorite of mine.  However, the three here in no way display the writing skills each of them are famed for.  You would have better luck tracking down the originals and read them.	2003-09-24
US	52089730	R1YF47A9BONW0I	0380820854	391607547	To Sir Phillip, With Love (Bridgerton Series, Book 5)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Smart, Fast Read... and a Bridgerton Tale Too	Julia Quinn delivers yet again with her trademark Bridgerton books, this time telling Eloise Bridgerton's adventure on her path to true love.  Much like the previous ones, the wittiness, humor and touching familial bonds pulls her simple plots to deeper levels of emotion.  At the end of Romancing Mister Bridgerton, Eloise had dissappeared.  Where has she gone indeed?<br />Eloise has finally been left alone.  She and Penelope have been best friends for ages and had decided they would be spinisters after having several years go by after their coming out debuts.  Happily however, followers of the Bridgerton books, know that Penelope finally found love with Colin (Eloise's brother).  She's feeling quite left out watching her brothers and sister and now her best friend find the exact kind of romance she herself cannot.<br />Over the year, she has been writing to Sir Phillip Crane, a relation by marriage.  His wife a distant cousin of Eloise passed away and Eloise being the attentive writer of letters sent a condolence letter that led to a mail (male) friendship with Crane.  Abruptly months before Colin and Penelope's wedding, Crane sends a letter with a marriage proposal of sorts in it.  And in a spurt of desperation, Eloise runs off to find her destiny.<br />Sir Phillip Crane is a bit darker and broodier than other Quinn hereos.  This book is less fun, even though the four brothers showing up to rescue their wayward sister allows hilarity of true Quinn potential to occur, and more a character display for Eloise and Phillip.  They are two strong character types and their clashing and romance gently buffets the story along rather than the story plodding their romance along.  In the end, they come together with as much passion and love as the other Bridgerton siblings and their spouses have.<br />To Sir Phillip ...  will delight Quinn fans.  However, this book just cannot stand against my other Bridgerton favorites (the Viscount and Duke and I).  I would like to see Quinnmove out of the Bridgerton series and write other characters as she so deftly did for the novella included in The Further Observations of Lady Whistledown.  It seems like even she seems a bit bored with the same characters showing up in every novel.	2003-06-26
US	52089730	R28897SHRU8KME	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	An Entertaining Look Into Harry's Future	Granted, Rowling made a great show of it by providing us with Goblet of Fire at 754 words.  It was marvelous and while a few people said it could have been cut down to a less voluminous size, i loved it all the more for it's detail.  I cannot say the same for Order of the Phoenix.<br />Order of the Phoenix lives up to its hype in many ways.  The beginning starts off as fraught with danger for Harry as any.  And he faces some of his greatest fears.  All doing this with an new edge to his personality, the angst and anger that comes with adolescence!  Imagine those feelings combined with Harry's already irritating habit of blaming himself for everything horrid that happens to him and his friends.  It's not a very healthy combination and Rowling weaves Harry's fears throughout the entire book leaving no emotion unscathed.<br />On top of this Harry has to juggle a monstrous new Defense Against the Dark Arts (who does believe in torture practices that are illegal), Snape giving him private tutoring, Sirius' own angst and bitterness at being an exile in the wizard world, a crush who always cries and mentions another boy's name in his presence and Voldemort's visions dancing in his head.  It is quite a bit too juggle!  And the wear shows on Harry especially in the end when it leads to a very dear person's death.<br />You may ask me what do i have to complain about after reading the above.  It sounds marvelous to me?  Oh all those parts were marvelous.  But  in the huge novel, i had to listen to Mrs.  Weasley complain a little too much about revealing information, watch the cleaning of a house that i really didn't care about the details, tour through the ministry of magic hearing too many adjectives about the beauty of the place, and much, much more that could have been edited.<br />I applaud Rowling on her development of the characters.  They have grown into splendid, mult-faceted individuals to be treasured (especially Neville Longbottom's), but it wouldn't hurt for her to focus a little more on plot and less on detail.  In the end, Dumbledore's talk with Harry mimicked a much loved scene in the Chronicles of Narnia's \\"The White Witch\\" in which Aslan speaks of an ancient magic with the four main characters.  While borrowing from the fantasy kettle has always made me love Rowling's work, in this instance i felt it lacking her original voice so prominent through out the first four.<br />Overall, this book answered very few questions that mature readers couldn't have surmised on their own.  And definitely leaves you wishing there had been a little more revealed.  But then that's become Rowling's trademark.  Keep readers in the Dark.  I have high hopes the last two books will deliver the answers, I just hope they are more concise and less prettily written as Phoenix was.r to focus a little more on plot and less on detail.  In the end, Dumbledore's talk with Harry mimicked a much loved scene in the Chronicles of Narnia's \\"The White Witch\\" in which Aslan speaks of an ancient magic with the four main characters.  While borrowing from the fantasy kettle has always made me love Rowling's work, in this instance i felt it lacking her original voice so prominent through out the first four.<br />Overall, this book answered very few questions that mature readers couldn't have surmised on their own.  And definitely leaves you wishing there had been a little more revealed.  But then that's become Rowling's trademark.  Keep readers in the Dark.  I have high hopes the last two books will deliver the answers, I just hope they are more concise and less prettily written as Phoenix was.	2003-06-21
US	52089730	R12FT7H9DIBGKQ	0263176630	86771016	Nathan's Child (Mills & Boon Romance)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	sexy story with intricately beautiful emotion	My mother-in-law says Harlequin Romances are so easy.  They are like a quickie before lunchtime she informs me.  And I always was inclined to believe her, never having indulged myself.  Until now.<br />Curled up in my reading chair, having put my daughter to sleep, I felt ready to enjoy a sweet romance with Anne McAllister's July release, \\"Nathan's Child.\\"  Unprepared and definitely uninformed, I began a starkly realistic story of a single mother's struggle to include the long absent father of her child.  As the characterization of Carin Campbell blossomed, McAllister deftly handled the reactions of Nathan Wolfe and Lacey Campbell as their own relationship develops.  The depth of this book is impressive with its intuitive revelations and ability to make you care about the individuals.<br />Nathan Wolfe, thirteen years missing, from Carin Campbell's now in control life, suddenly appears wanting to be a part of his daughter's life.  Lacey Campbell couldn't be more pleased.  Carin on the other hand, has decided duty be hanged and Nathan with it.  As Carin consciously begins mending the relationship between Nathan and Lacey, she and Nathan find family ties are not always the ones that bind.  And that love can be the strongest bond of all.<br />Overall, \\"Nathan's Child\\" was well worth the wait for those who have been begging for completion of the \\"Wolfe Brothers' Trilogy.\\"  Check out the the Inconvenient Bride and Rhys' Redemption for the other Wolfe Brother's stories.  <br />McAllister deserves high kudos for making this story so likable and in a short amount of time.  She reels you in quickly and keeps her story believable the entire way through this book.  It's hard to believe she manages it with so little time and with one of the oldest plots of all time.  It's a remarkable talent!<br />You may resent the quickie remark, but if you are looking for a sexy but touching story, \\"Nathan's Child\\" delivers.  Emotionally deep and stirring, it deserves all your attention (whether you read it before lunch or not)!	2003-06-16
US	52089730	RZZGSWHGOG3JK	0451208072	896317720	St. Raven	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sensual Hero and Lovely Heroine	Tristan Tregallows, Duke of St. Raven won my attention with his small part in Jo Beverley's Hazard.  Although very small part indeed,  his romantic tendecies and decidedly mysterious role as a highwayman intrigued me greatly.  So when I heard St. Raven was coming out, I was truly pleased.<br />In fact, Tristan's character grows quite well with detail and I thought him truly enigmatic and sensual all rolled into one person.  His humanity was especially touching.  As we see the brashness and crassness of character fall away under Cressida Mandeville's puritanical scrutiny, he develops into a delicious display of masculine sensitivity.<br />Cressida on the other hand tended to be a bit more emotionally disinclined than I liked.  Her rationalization was a bit overdone although her spirit and spunk very admirable.    She did display some of the better attributes that Beverley gives her heroines, but they didn't seem to fit her as well as they did Beth Armitage from An Arranged Marriage or even Lady Anne from Hazard.  <br />Overall, this story is a touching, sweet love affair between the have and the have not.  In Regency England that means no marriage can take place.  But times are changing and so are some people's perspectives.  Thanks much to Beth and Lucien from the Company of Rogues series, St. Raven is given to fanciful thoughts of marrying Cressida.  In the end, of course like every true romance, love conquers all.	2003-02-13
US	52089730	R31VVU2SHX6TO9	0060511508	264413309	The Further Observations of Lady Whistledown	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Pleasurable Fun for Valentine's Day	No one can beat the wittiness of Julia Quinn other than Karen Hawkins and Suzanne Enoch.  I have enjoyed these three ladies books thoroughly.  Karen Hawkins famous for her St. John men and Suzanne Enoch for her dashing rakes in With This Ring Series.  And of course, who doesn't love the Bridgerton Siblings that Julia Quinn gave us beginning with the Duke and I?  <br />So when I saw this compilation of novellas, I was thrilled.  Three amazing writers combined with a relatively newcomer, Mia Ryan.  And I must say that Mia Ryan held her own in this book and it came together delightfully.<br />It all starts with Suzanne Enoch introducing us to two characters (Maximillian and Anne) who have been engaged since childhood but haven't laid eyes on each other as adults.  Once they do, the passion flares despite Anne's obsitinate belief that being herded off to Yorkshire is the last place she wants to be.<br />Then Karen Hawkins steps up to the plate with her delightful duo, Royce and Elizabeth.  Best friends for ages despite Royce's incredible rakish tendencies and Elizabeth's horrific sense of style and unconformity.  In the end, best friends do indeed make the best lovers!<br />In Mia Ryan's sweet story of two misunderstood souls wandering aimlessly through a society that has quickly dismissed them rounds out the book perfectly.  Here Caroline and her \\"evil\\" very removed cousin Terrance find out that not everything is what it seems.  Indeed, most people warrant a second look and chance to find the love of their life.<br />Lastly, Julia Quinn ties the book up with her delightfully, witty \\"Thirty-Six Valentines.\\"  The Earl of Renminster takes his duty seriously.  When he notices the girl his brother Clive dismissed suffering at the hands of society, he steps in to make amends.  The only problem is Susannah steals his heart.  <br />This compilation offers up some fabulous dialogue as well as sensuous, romantic stories.  These four, although famed for their humor brought a touch of sweet elegance that rarely slips into their other writings.  I will admit some dialogue was a bit contemporary for the time and jarred me a bit, but overall this book pleased me greatly.  And delivered the expectations that I had placed upon it.  Anyone who is a fan of these four, must read this book!	2003-02-06
US	52089730	R1Y3398TIEEM55	0060537450	636112679	Julia Quinn Two-Book Set:  Dancing at Midnight and To Catch an Heiress	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Delicious Reads	Julia Quinn has some wonderful novels... I gave this package four stars because Dancing at Midnight is my least favorite Julia Quinn book.  It is funny but just doesn't have the delightful flair that her other books have.  <br />Belle, Emma's cousin from Splendid, finally meets a man who doesn't fall at her feet over her beauty.  He's definitely brooding over something in his past, but it doesn't keep the sparks from flying between them.  This book has a litle more intrigue than other Quinn's books and sometimes drags because the characters are a bit shallow.  However, there are some wonderfully memorable moments when Belle and Blackwood finally decide to marry.  How many interruptions can one wedding take from a drunk priest to an angry brother... it's hilarious!<br />To Catch an Heiress has some of the funniest dialogue ever!  It has some sexy love scenes that make this book sizzle a little more than other Quinn books.  Caroline Trent and Blake Ravenscroft's romance involves a mistaken identity.  Blake thinks Caroline is a spy.  Caroline is trying to escape her fortune-hunting guardian's son and potential marriage to him.  All in all, I laughed my head off throughout this entire book.  It's a fast read.  You will want it on your shelf because you will be re-reading it many times when you are bored or just in the mood for a delicious laugh.	2002-10-17
US	52089730	R3R21PYU52SR1K	067173783X	366170390	The Lion's Lady	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Great Characters and Funny	Christina and Lyon are two amazing characters that are really well developed in this book.  Romantically they fit each other to a T.  The [loveliness] of their courtship kept me enthralled when the story did not.<br />Julie Garwood has an amazing talent of creating likeable characters who do not necessarily stay their roles.  It is hard to imagine that Lyon would behave so angrily with Christina.  And vice versa.  However, the entire suspense throughout the story that comes with Christina's journal is good.  It keeps the reader on track.  I liked the beginning part with the indians.  I found it unique and hilarious.  It sets the stage for all the misunderstanding Christina and Lyon have together when talking.  And it makes it all the more hilarious when Lyon doesn't get it but the reader does.  <br />Overall, it's not my favorite Garwood book... I believe her best ones are the Scottish series she writes.  But this book is full of humor, likeable characters and overall sensual.  In fact, its hard for me to not like a Garwood romance!	2002-10-09
US	52089730	R3OB7Y6AANHVOJ	0898798671	242085422	How to Write Romances (Genre Writing)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Encouraging and Great for Aspiring Novelists	This book has really calmed a lot of fears that I had when I began writing.  Pianka is very thorough but not overbearing in her explanations on how to create compelling romance.  She includes great advice from well known romance writers such as Nora Roberts and Jo Beverley.  I have the highest regards for many of the people who she interviewed.<br />She makes learning fun and enjoyable.  There are many humorous antecedotes that made me laugh.  And I enjoyed reading some of the things editors had to say as well.  She also kept me grounded with her advice that the process can be hard and there is a lot of competition.  But she's very encouraging and uplifting with her advice that there's lots of unexplored plots, characters and ground to be discovered in romance fiction.<br />Fast Flowing... this book really helps to get you focused and serious about writing.	2002-10-07
US	52089730	R1LSXPY8HH2IZA	0553575007	826575056	Touch of Enchantment	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Enchanting	While this book hardly takes a genius to read... it's funny, cute and utterly adorable characters make it likable.  Tabitha utterly disgusted with the knowledge that she's a witch in the 20th century strives to find a way scientifically for everything that occurs on the universe.  She doesn't realize though that love can be magic until she's transported in time and finds herself at the mercy of a handsome knight named Colin.<br />When sparks began to fly, so do the accusations.  Suddenly Tabitha is faced with a real reason for hating being a witch.  She's about to be burned for being one.  Only after she realizes what a selfish individual she is, does she begin to understand how she should cherish her gift and those people she can protect with it.  <br />Touch of Enchantment is a quick read.  The romance is not as enduring as in some of Teresa's other books.  But it's a nice followup to Breath of Magic.  And don't get me wrong, it does have it's wonderfully sexy moments.  An overall, nice book to read at the beach or on a rainy day where you just might find yourself wishing to be somewhere else!	2002-10-02
US	52089730	R34BD4ZGGIPDYL	0553581856	594204929	A Kiss to Remember (Once Upon a Time)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Pleasurable and Sweet	A Kiss to Remember strikes at the heart of those of us that like to see characters forgiven and redeemed by the heroine's love. In this book, the Devil Duke, loses his memory and is given a new chance with a girl his mother loved as her own daughter. <br />Neither one of the main character's childhoods really allowed them the freedom of being themselves.  The Duke is especially wounded having being abondoned by his father and abused by his uncle.  Laura longs to show Sterling that he was truly loved by his mother.  She just has to get past the tough exterior Sterling has to cover his true sensitive nature.  Of course, with the help of two younger siblings, especially her conniving baby sister Lottie, Laura gets in a lot of trouble on her path to redemption.<br />The romance is hot in this book. A sensual spell is woven around the two main characters that truly ignite feelings that their love is real. It's an amazing quality that Teresa has fed into this rather well-known story. It delighted me and i have re-read the book many times just to see Laura and Sterling relive their passion!	2002-10-02
US	52089730	R2GZ6438LUZKSB	0891919384	922838897	Tales of the Resistance	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Amazing Fantasy	These emotional tales of ordinary people becoming heros bring fantasy to an all new level.  Children learning to love after being treated horribly... Fear of death being faced with courage... Mental Instability and many other ordinary circumstances of life become the basis of salvation for many of the characters in this book.  However, the depth of topic is not so harsh when told in this fantasy setting and actually encourage hope and faith in the reader.<br />Children and adults alike well revel in the amazing characters and loyalty the followers of the King inspire among each other.  It's a true tale of what kind of kingdom love, loyalty and faith can build.  Also, it weaves scriptural parables into eloquent fables that make wonderful bedtime stories for all ages.  Emotionally, this book touches the depths of souls that few can.  A truly magical experience, Tales of the Resistance makes a complimentary companion piece to its prequel Tales of the Kingdom.	2002-09-24
US	52089730	R1XAVPJORC0QC7	0741406993	464718661	First Season	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Evil Villians and Romantic Plots	Nick Leigh, the Earl of Ashcom has finally decided to meet the family his relatives have been supporting for generations.  Frankly, he's ready to put a stop to their financial gain at his expense until he happens upon Fantine Delmere.  Out of vengence he decides to force feed his titled wealth upon her and make her live through a season.  Her contempt for him barely masked, his only retailiation is to force her away from her beloved home Evergreen.<br />Fantine Delmere may have been raised to follow her father's edicts, but it doesn't mean she has to like them.  Upon discovering her father's request of Lord Ashcom to give her a seaon in London, she flees the first meeting with the Earl.  In doing so, she draws Ashcom's anger and so begins a tortureous relationship between the two.  The sparks fly and neither one can get past their prejudices and pride to really see the person inside.  Of course, that leads to a seduction of will and passion that can only mean happy ending for this couple.  <br />A tad bit overdone in it's facts of the Regency era, First Season, written by artist Gloria Gay is a quick, fun read.  It does not flow as well as it should.  The seduction and romance comes across very contrived in parts and most of the characters are formulaic.  However, for an early attempt it shows Gloria Gay has a chance to hone her talent in a way that should make her next novel more enjoyable.  <br />The villians in the book were the best part.  She does know how to develop characters you like to loathe.  Pulling on this talent, she should see greater success with her character development in her next novels and I look forward to reading them.	2002-09-24
US	52089730	R1NBVRLCIN2JP6	006018888X	327922976	The Promise in a Kiss: A Cynster Christmas Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Sexy, Sizzling and Sincere	In this prequel to the rest of the Bar Cynster series, we finally meet Sebastian, the 5th Duke of St. Ives.  He's wonderfully sexy and just as daring and arrogant as the rest of the Cynster lot.  Of course, it's this nature that leads him to steal a kiss from a beautiful woman in a Parisian convent.<br />Seven years later, the Duke comes face to face with Helena de Stansion and instantly recognizes her as the woman he kissed that night.  A lush seduction begins between the two.  As the passion burns between them, the more Sebastion fights to free it.  However, Helene under the thumb of her powerful guardian, unwittingly becomes a pawn in a scheme that could kill any love between her and St. Ives. <br />Again, Laurens provides us with a strong woman being seduced by a handsome, but caring man.  And Sebastion makes one heck of a love interest.  In true Cynster fashion, Helene and Sebastion when together provide some steamy love scenes.  <br />Overall, this book encompasses everything that makes a romance the escape you want.  It has witty dialogue, great secondary characters, intrigue and pure sensuality.  It's a wonderful addition to the Bar Cynster series!	2002-09-12
US	52089730	R33SZVN4FUQPGA	0375814655	9616282	Lady Knight (Protector of the Small, 4)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Amazing End of Series	Lady Knight concludes the Protector of the Small series beautifully.  Kel has grown into a wonderful knight who is bright, witty and freshly knighted.  Unfortunately, the chamber of ordeal won't leave her alone even though she's come out unscathed.  The chamber of ordeal has given her a task.  The task may interfere with her new orders which everyone feels is wimpy orders.  They will keep her from the actual war with Scanran.    She's having to watch over a refugee camp.  In the end, she realizes she may have to walk away from all her dreams of knighthood to truly fulfill her destiny.  <br />Although, in true Pierce style, Kel's destiny means her friends stick by her side despite the fact they could be branded deserters and face dire consequences.  Owen, Neal, Dom, Diane and Numair are all back and helping out in their unique ways.  And she makes many new allies among the refugees.  <br />It's wonderful to see all the old characters back.  I applaud Pierce for her amazing ability to make me care and love about  these characters even after all these years.  If this is the end of the Tortallan Series, it's an amazing book and brings very nice closure for the reader.	2002-09-09
US	52089730	R28AS1AW6I3UZI	0375814655	9616282	Lady Knight (Protector of the Small, 4)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Hate to say Goodbye	In Lady Knight, Lady Kel is finally being assigned a post as a full fledged knight.  The only problem is that the chamber of ordeal has given her a vision, a task to complete.  She has no idea how to go about it and her present command seemingly takes her from her goal.  Watching over refugees and protecting a camp from harm is hardly the action of war she thought she would see.  And in her mind, fighting the battle is the quickest way to the enemy the chamber has shown her.  However, deep down, she fears she may have to abondon her sheild and follow her baser instincts... ones that say she alone can tackle and vanquish this evil.  Much like Alanna, she is given visions and suffers from nightmares until she finally does begin her quest as the chamber ordered.  In doing so she fulfills her destiny and becomes known as \\"Protector of the Small.\\"<br />This novel, wonderfully full of character development is long (Yippee).  It takes time to introduce new characters to care for... especially Tobe, Kel's new charge.  Once again, Daine and Numair are there to help Kel.  Her love for animals has made her friendship with Daine a great asset.  In fact, Daine frees much of her magic on the animals around Kel knowing she will do everything in her power to protect them.  We meet Neal, Raoul of Goldenlake, Dom (Neal's cousin), Neal's father, Owen and many others from the Song of the Lioness and Wild Magic Quartets that mean so much to those of us that love the Tortall series.<br />In fact that was what made this book so amazing.  It brings together all my favorite characters.  They are so loyal to each other and seeing them grow up, or watching others who are already growing up and having children.  It makes me sad to know that the series is ending.  I hate the thought of having to say goodbye to any more stories about them.  While Kel doesn't end up with any love interest... there's plenty of potential for her to find one.  There's always... maybe another quartet for us to find out.  Overall, though it was a fine farewell to fictional people I  have come to love.  And a commendable story to dedicate to the strength of New York after September 11th.    Thanks Tamora for giving me characters to love and cherish and respect.	2002-09-03
US	52089730	RHEBBBA88ROTG	0380800810	901291495	How to Marry a Marquis (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Funny, Sensual, and Happy Ending	Elizabeth Hotchkiss has three younger siblings... Susan, Jane and Lucas.  They are all orphans, but more than that they adore their older sister and think she alone can solve their financial problems.  Little do they know that their father left her with problems deeper than anyone can imagine.<br />James Sidwell, the marquis of riverdale is bored with London.  His best friend Blake (from how to catch an heiress) is married to the one woman James found interesting and unique.  When his dear aunt, Lady Danbury,  (who Julia Quinn fans know from the Bridgerton series) summons him to help out with a blackmail plot, he hurries to her aid.  <br />Elizabeth and James meet.  Elizabeth is Lady Danbury's outspoken, witty companion and James is disguised as Lady Danbury's estate manager.  In exchange for helping Elizabeth find a rich husband, James allows her to help him look for the blackmailer.  The only problem is the more James gives Elizabeth lessons in how to Catch a Marquis, the more he feels he's the only husband for her.<br />The witty retorts abound when Caroline and Blake arrive to throw a wrench in James' disguise.  And then when the children and Lady Danbury take things into their own hands, James and Elizabeth become free to find their passions with each other.  This book has some of the funniest, laugh out loud dialogue.  Also, Lady Danbury is ever enduring as a great character to move the plot along.  This story has some very sensuous moments and some very touching moments.  Much of it shows just what a wonderful writer Julia Quinn is and how she has become well known for her ability to right humorous love stories.	2002-08-27
US	52089730	R1YYBTSZQ8L9W8	0515110744	433335924	My Only Love	Books	5	21	23	N	N	very romantic and sensual	Miles Kemball Warwick has always felt like an outsider.  He's the illegitimate son of a wealthy and powerful earl.  And even though he's been raised with the other two sons... he still feels like an outcast.<br />Olivia Devonshire has always been looked down upon by her father and sister.  She's not beautiful like her sister nor does she attract men like her sister.  The one thing Olivia has that makes her different is her brain.  She handles her father's accounts and has increased their fortune.  However, she can't shake her reputation with the small fortune.  It has followed her back to England.<br />Miles Warwick thought he loved Emily Devonshire and when he receives a note from her some years later to visit, he hurries over.  Instead of Emily, it's her father propositioning Miles to marry Olivia Devonshire.  She's rich and if she marries Miles, it will keep the scandals surrounding her silent so Emily can marry happily.<br />Miles is broke and so the deal is made.  He wants respect.  He doesn't get if from Olivia though.  She's smart and not willing to throw her fortune away.  She keeps control of the money.  <br />Over time, Olivia and Miles begin to learn the secrets and desires of each others' hearts.  Both realize they have been living for the love of others and not learning to be strong themselves.  <br />This book is really an emotional growth of the characters through their romance.  The two of them learn to like themselves by drawing on the strength in one another.  It's one of the best books I have read in the way of romance novels.  It's very real and moving.  I like the fact that Olivia is weak and strong like women today.  And that Miles learns to love and just doesn't wake up one day doing it or saying it.  It's very good and I can read it over and over again.  The prequel is good too.  Fire in the Heart is Damien's (Miles' half brother and the legitimate son) story and Miles redeems a lot of himself in that story too.  It's very cool to read thesein order because the transformation works even better and you can follow Miles' character changes less drastically.	2002-08-16
US	52089730	RQ5S31J5KQJHD	0451405986	354284501	Angel Rogue: Revised Edition (Fallen Angels Novels)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Must add to your collection	The third in the Fallen Angel Series, we finally see Robin enjoy happiness.  Robin was such a sweetheart to Margot in Petals on the Wind, you really did feel bad that Rafe ended up with her.  However, while Maxima is strong like Margot, she has the determination needed to help Robin deal with his demons over what he has done in the name of loyalty for his country.  Together as the two of them travel by foot to London while avoiding hitmen and their own families, they become more passionate and the healing of both their wounded hearts enhanced by their growing love for one another.  This book again is not as good as the first in the series, but has an emotional quality that the others don't have in that we see many character reuniting and healing over past hurts than we saw in others.  This books is the turning point in which Lucien (one of the actual Fallen Angels) begin to understand the torture his soul has endured by his part in the spy ring.  Robin while not part of the Fallen Angels (Nick, Rafe, Lucien and Michael), is a worthy character and one that I liked immensely.  It's really his character that pulls this book into the level of romance reading that I enjoy.	2002-08-06
US	52089730	R1UA2GZ1UNNN1B	0451206444	118302686	My Lady Notorious	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent Villians	In this book, Beverly introduces us to the Mallorens (the first of five in the series), a family tightly controlled by the older brother, Rothgar.  Cyn, the youngest in the family who has a twin sister Elf, is always on an adventure much to his older brother's chagrin.  Chastity Ware is the highwayman (or more correctly the highwaywoman) who draws him deep into a web of deceit, pain and betrayal after taking him hostage.  Her reasons for breaking the law are extremely noble however her reputation isn't.  In the end, it will be her family who must face the charges for not being strong enough to protect her and Cyn who makes her realize she's worth much more than what other people think.  The end of this book has a gripping scene worthy of how Agathe Christie would reveal her villians in the end of her books.  I liked that everything came together in an emotionaly taut scene leaving no character unscathed.  It was brilliant.  However, the book does drag in parts and gets bogged down a bit more than I liked.  Overall, this book is worth reading and definitely peeks your interest in the rest of the Mallorens.	2002-08-06
US	52089730	R3VPQZXN18I1MW	0451205154	741150351	Thunder and Roses (Signet Historical Romance)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Two Wonderful Characters	Clare and Nick are two people lost in their own worlds.  Never fitting in quite like they should, their souls yearn for a belonging that neither can find in their present states.  However, after a stormy first meeting that has sparks flying between them, a deal is struck and Clare begins an intimate and very irreputable relationship with the Demon Earl.  Her goal is to save her people from hardships... of course his goal is well he's a man and the hero of a romance novel... we know what his goal was.  Along the way, revelations are made and the Fallen Angels (a nickname the ton has given Nick and three of his best friends from Eton) slowly bring closure to the heartache both Nick and Clare experienced from their lonely childhoods.  The first of the Fallen Angels series (however you can meet Rafe and Michael in the Rake and Rafe briefly in the Bargain), Nick and Clare spar and love until they both find their place to belong.  This book is witty, sensual and emotionally filled with friendship, loyalty and forgiveness.  It's one of Putney's best!	2002-08-06
US	52089730	RD4S7UPSV4R13	0451404459	492297334	Petals in the Storm (Fallen Angels Novels)	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	Good Mystery... Not as Romantic as Others	Petals in the Storm comes as the second in the Fallen Angel Series.  If you pay attention to the time line though, these books are not really in chronological order.  Rafe, the Duke of Candover and the oldest of the Fallen Angels, fell in love right out of school.  However, this young man that always was an aristocrat and rarely showed weakness let his pride and anger ruin his chances with the girl.  When a mission takes him to Paris, much to his surprise his contact turns out to be the girl only she's now in disguise and one of the best spies for England.  Margot Ashton is not the same girl that Rafe fell in love with.  She has known excrutiating pain at the hands of men and only trusts one man explicitly...  Robin, her protector of many years.  As Rafe works through his feelings, his jealousy grows towards Robin and his fear for Margot in this dangerous masquerade begins to consume him.  In the end, Rafe, Margot and Robin face their greatest enemy together and find an unlikely alliance that leads Margot and Rafe to the love they denied so many years ago.  It's worth having for the bookshelf.  It's more whodunit than romance.  The sensuality is not really there like in Thunder and Roses.  But it's still a good read and I really liked Rafe from his other roles in the Bargain and Thunder and Roses.	2002-08-06
US	52089730	R2UCY1SEIR7PQ1	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Julia Quinn Delivers Again	It wasn't too hard to discern from the other Bridgerton books to know that something must happen between Penelope and Colin.  These two characters were constantly paired off because of Violet's (the Bridgerton mother) tendency to pity Penelope. It was hard not to miss the hints throughout the other books.  However, this book contains a bit of a tease in trying to discover who is the Whistledown lady.  Overall, I liked Colin and Penelope's courtship immensely.  And after reading this book, I'm more interested in knowing what Eloise Bridgerton is about.  The dialogue is witty and there's a tenderness about Colin that hasn't been seen in any of the other books.  It makes him very likable and the match much more believable.  Good charcterization in this book.  You will definitely want it for the collection.	2002-08-01
US	52089730	RXBGMW2EIJ1SL	0380812525	135421562	Ritual of Proof	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent Combo of Satire and Romance	A satirical look at conventional stereotypes for men and women's roles in society, this science fiction novel switches the role of power to women.  In forus, the women protect the men and give them purpose through marriage.  Jolen Reynard despises this fact, and unwillingly participates in the social strictures dictated to him.  Only one woman can pierce his disdain and cause him to compromise himself to become her name-bearer (husband).  Green Tamyren, a strong, smart female finds herself irrevocably drawn to the Jolen.  Soon she's finding life much more satisfying by treating him as an equal than forcing him into the more traditional submissive role.  In the end, when all Jolen and Green hold dear is threatened, the two of them realize the true nature of love, friendship and family.  This book weaves it's philosophical discussion in a sensual web and plot thick with witty, sarcastic dialogue.  It definitely stands out as a smart rebuke for societal mores as well as being a romantic story.	2002-08-01
US	52089730	RIEMKW62PPW8D	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Wonderful Tale	The Viscount Who Loved Me contains one of the funniest scenes I have ever read to date.  When the Bridgertons come together, their squabbles make any event lively.  In this book, Julia Quinn shows off her flair for humor and sarcastic retorts that will leave you laughing out loud.  The romance is subtly hidden in a nice plot that draws you in very quickly while making you like the characters immeasurably.  Not only that, you begin to care for more than just the main characters and become involved with wanting to know more about the entire family and their close friends.  The book does contain some very emotional moments that made me care all the more deeply about this group of characters.  It is one of the best romance novels I have read.  It may not be as blatantly sensual as other books, but it has an emotional, humorous quality that makes it stand out among the others.  I highly recommend the Bridgerton series and this book is probably my favorite so far.  I know that Idefinitely catch myself reading it time and time again.	2002-08-01
US	52089730	R1NRNRK8NAF21E	0373835396	928905497	Four In Hand	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Nothing Spectacular	While this book contains some witty dialogue and fun pranks.  Overall, with four characters to chase around, Stephanie can hardly keep up the characterization or the plot.  It does drag and you know all too well what the outcome is going to be.  However, the hardest part is truly not being allowed to care a little more about the characters.  It's hard to like a book more when the characters mean so little.  It's a fun read with there's nothing else to read, but don't plan on it becoming a keeper for the collection.	2002-08-01
US	52089730	R13W3ZEG886W5N	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	One for the Bookshelf	Julia Quinn has a knack for witty, humorous dialogue that no other romance writer has.  I laugh constantly throughout her books and am impressed at how easily they flow from humor to sensual.  She's mastered the art of making us care about the characters and involving many other friendly faces into the thick of things.  In the Duke and I, Simon (duke of Hastings) quickly changes his mind that marriage is not for him after facing Daphne Bridgerton (the sweetest girl he's ever known) down before a duel.  That doesn't mean he's given up vows he's carried for a long time and doesn't realize he's destroying his chance of happiness with Daphne.  In the end, love, laughter and family teach this cynical duke what it really means to be alive.  A great read that's fun, fast and worth owning because you will want to read it again and again.	2002-08-01
US	52089730	R29EMJ5LHJAG85	0380815583	618770208	An Offer From a Gentleman (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Part of a Great Series	In this book, Julia has Benedick Bridgerton falling in love instantly with an earl's bastard (Sophia).  Again the witty dialogue and entrancing sensuality that embodies Julia Quinn's writing is evident.  The book shows how deft she is at weaving an enchanting plot to capture the reader.  Much like a Cinderella rewrite and very similar to \\"Ever After,\\" the Drew Barrymore film, readers find this book a bit simple after the first two in the Bridgerton series.  Favorite characters from the other books are back and trying to help out any way they can.  Out of all four of the Bridgerton books, it is the only one that really doesn't stand out as a true gem for the bookshelf.  However, you will want to own it for the simple sake that it is indeed the third book in the Bridgerton series.  For that reason alone, you should buy it and for a more than comical scene that occurs at the end with Violet Bridgerton showing why she made such a great Viscountess in her day.	2002-08-01
US	52089730	RYAV2PQI68Q94	0803725094	394523233	Aunt Claire's Yellow Beehive Hair	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Ethereal Illustrations make book	Mary GrandPre, of Harry Potter fame for illustrating both covers and inside spots, make this book stand out as a wonderful walk through the past.  Annie searching to know more about her past learns a lot about her family from her Aunt.  Ethereal visuals combined with Deborah Blumenthal's detailed story, the books plays out like a magically brilliant dream.  In the end, children will enjoy looking at the stunning visuals, GrandPre showers with each page.  A wonderful lap books for children who enjoy hearing stories about family and their past.	2002-01-15
US	52089730	R2NTNKDLNLRZ3H	0439286239	393070779	Harry Potter Poster Book	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A Fan Souvenier...	This book while featuring some brand new images that I hadn't seen before in detail, still stuck with the same images that can be seen briefly in the Harry Potter trailers.  There are really no new images, like those that will be seen in the Vanity Fair issue coming up.  However, it's a nice collector's editon for die hard fans like my daughter.  It will be nice for her to have and keep so when she grows up she can show her children how fanatical she was towards this book.  It's just a nice fan souvenier in the end.	2001-09-21
US	52089730	R2JHEMOL65SG8X	0439176840	907027988	Aenir (The Seventh Tower #3)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Another cliffhanger	This books by far is one of the busiest of the seventh tower series.  Tal and Milla are both bound to each other in a magical process that leaves Tal in Milla's bad favor and makes it impossible for Milla to ever accomplish her goal to become a Maiden Warrior.  The emotional element of the friendship/enemy relationship between Milla and Tal builds in this book too.  Also, we get our first glimpse of the true evil chasing the two children and the extent to which it will go to destroy all the Tal and Milla love.  This book adds a lot to the all ready extreme suspense this series has.	2001-09-20
US	52089730	R1P39TC4MA3SFI	0689801149	991890312	Charlie Anderson	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Cat Lovers and Children of Divorced Parents...	This simple, yet intricate tale of a cat named Charlie and Anderson can help children of divorced parents relate to life.  In it a cat has two homes, two set of owners and one big family that loves him a lot.  He doesn't mind having to visit between them and he gets different kinds of love shown him at each house.  So it makes him extra special.  The two little girls who discover their cat  actually has another home he visits during the day, slowly realize that although their parents live in separate houses still love them the same as if they did live together.  It's straight forward approach and fuzzy, cuddly cat makes this book a unique approach to talking to your children about divorce.  I recommend it highly being a divorced parent of a cat lover.	2001-09-11
US	52089730	RT3AIHO6CHYS	0679889167	133881695	Squire (Protector of the Small, No. 3)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Can't wait for the finale...	Kel has really grown up. This series while less action and more character development driven, it has incorporated many feelings and issues that make Kel a wonderful character. She's finally found a love interest that respects and admires her just as much as adores her as a woman. Also, she's turning into a fine leader much like her mother. It should be quite a big event in the next book because if I know Tamora, she wouldn't have given Kel such an important quality if it wasn't going to be usefull further in the story plot. So look for an amazing, but enchanting finale to this character driven series.	2001-08-24
US	52089730	R31VSFSWR6YYI	0152016082	642896985	Crown Duel: The Crown & Court Duet, Book I	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Pleasantly Surprised	Upon a recommendation, I read this book.  Elegantly written with splendid character development, this book shines with a depth hardly expected from a fantasy novel.  Meliara, hardly of age to be going to war joins her brother in a quest to rid the kingdom of a tyrant.  Poor and without support from the rest of the nobles, the two miserably plod along on a trial/error basis until Meliara is caught by the enemy.  Melaira, a hardy, but sensitive heroine begins a slow and rough but enlightening journey with Vidanric, the leader of the bad king's army.  As she shows him her passion to protect the kingdom, he reveals the faults of her logic and revolution.  The two while at odds begin to respect each other for their views, even as misguided as they are.  In the end many revelations are made that only lead to many unanswered questions that can only be answered by reading &quot;Court Duel.&quot;  This book is great for girls looking for a lead female without the feminine stereotypes.	2001-05-16
US	52089730	R9GAJZ5P6URV1	0152016090	396228917	Court Duel: The Crown & Court Duet, Book II	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Thorough Ending to Great Series	Once again Melira, in the midst of a struggling kingdom, finds herself caught up in a battle.  This time the war will not be fought with swords but with words and wit.  Melira, the &quot;barefoot&quot; countess must come to court for her brother's sake, but comes secretly to find out if Vidanric, her brother's new close friend and possible heir to the throne is worthy of such title.  Caught in a battle of wits and courtly finesse, she must overcome her ignorance, embarassment and lack of courtly manners to keep herself from becoming a pawn of a worse tyrant than the king they overthrew in &quot;Crown Duel.&quot;  Although, this book does have a more static plot, the character development and foreshadowing makes it a suspenseful, deep read.  It nicely ends the series with many revelations to unanswered questions from the first book.  Plus Melira is a brass, but genuine heroine that really makes this book unique by offering a role model girls today could be proud to imitate.	2001-05-16
US	52089730	R3OI2BOENANXC3	0060278234	895619710	Lirael: Daughter of the Clayr	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Excellent sequel to Sabriel	Sabriel set the stage for what begins to take place in Lirael.  Once again we meet Touchstone and Sabriel in their quest to put the dead to rest who reek havoc, harm and destruction on their beloved &quot;Old Kingdom,&quot; a world that exists right next to modern England and only separated by a wall filled with powerful charter magic.  However, unaware that they have a new ally in Lirael and her faithful companion, they leave the &quot;Old Kingdom&quot; entering the modern world of politics in hopes to keep people who cannot protect themselves in this magical kingdom from crossing the border into the &quot;Old Kingdom.&quot;  Lirael our new herione, just as spunky and likeable as Sabriel with the aid of her faithful friend begins a self-discovery into who she really is, what her path will be and how she alone holds the power to save the Old Kingdom and its heir from imminent destruction.  In her search, she follows a history full of dark, old magic that will eventually return everyone to the beginning of charter magic.  This book reads quickly and brings the characters to life easily.  You can lose yourself in the story.  Somewhat graphic in its description of everything, even evil parasitic death forms; it never dumbs down the subjects of death, pain, betrayal and hurt that life can bring.  This novel will please even the pickiest of thriller readers.  Well Done, Garth!	2001-04-23
US	52089730	R19PHO9WQNABP7	0060274328	627927768	The World of William Joyce Scrapbook	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Whimsically Beautiful	This self-portrait of William Joyce comes across so whimsical and fantastical, children will want to read it again and again.  It's especially inspiring for children with creative spirits or ones with large imaginations.  Joyce's sweet innoncence delicately provides a fun-loving world any child or adult would enjoy.  The illustrations and text make me want to transform my home into the same wonderful playland Joyce's children enjoy.  He explains his day and how he's inspired to illustrate and write.  Any question a little one could possibly ask, he answers in this book.  He also gives insight to what he was feeling on certain books he wrote too.  I especially enjoyed hearing about what emotions and things in his life inspired what books.	2001-01-05
US	52089730	RG2BIODG7Z84D	0439236541	548546561	Harry Potter: Hedwig the Owl	Books	5	47	49	N	N	Excellent for Writing	My daughter who is six found these widely space lined pages excellent for writing stories even though her hand writing isn't great yet.  She loves the image of Hedwig the owl and the green marbled cover makes it look kind of old and something you would find in a castle.  She loves it and spends many hours writing in it.  Chances are we're going to have to buy a new one soon.	2000-11-20
US	52089730	R172QSUR46DAHR	043920352X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Awesome for Die Hard Fans	This book enchants with its amazing story every one already knows.  However, included in this edition is a cute hand drawn pic of Harry by J. K. herself!  Myself being a die hard fan loves the fact it's leather bound but still has some of the wonderful artistry of Mary GrandPre showing on the front.  Overall, it's an excellent purchase.	2000-10-18
US	52089730	RIAK5ZG0RTKA1	0439176824	131745674	The Fall (Seventh Tower #1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Entertaining Enough	While Garth Nix was hardly able to reveal his amazingly fine-tuned style of writing in this publication... it's not fair to compare it to Sabriel and Shade's Children. Reading it as a strictly juvenile fiction in a commercialized series, the book shines above the ordinary. Quick paced, but highly detailed with character development, foreboding and cliffhanger ending, this book fulfills its purpose. Strangely dark, this book does seem a little scary for younger ears, but will delight older children. It never reveals what really Tal is having to fight.  We simply know he's the oldest child of three and must act like the leader of the family after the disappearance of his father.  Other than that, the definite plot against him is very mysterious and keeps the reader guessing. And definitely makes me crave for more.  Can't wait to see what happens next!	2000-10-09
US	52089730	R3HR61H0CXTPNC	0844670030	613651929	In the Hand of the Goddess (The Song of the Lioness)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Best Book in the Series	By Far, this is my favorite book in the Lioness series.  All four of the books are excellent, but this is the book where we really meet Alanna for who she is... female.  Alanna has been hiding her true identity from everyone. Forced by the rules only men can become knights, Alanna has secretly kept her female nature hidden from everyone but two friends Jon and George.  In this novel, Alanna must face her greatest fears... falling in love and fighting her nemesis, Duke Roger.  The suspense and romance make Alanna an excellent role model for any girl.  She contains the vulnerability but strenghth that drives people to say females are an oxy-moron.  In her weakness, Alanna triumphs over her enemies because her feminine nature many times keeps her from the prejudices, inability to open thinking and tendency towards segregation many of her male knight friends have.  A truly enigmatic character, Alanna comes into her own in the In the Hand of the Goddess and this self-actualization process makes this book one of the best reads ever.  I'm 25 and own this whole series and still read them when I'm in need of an inspiring female role model.	2000-10-09
US	52089730	R11IVGNRJ6QJW7	074754624X	667539744	HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Is this book for real?	I know the Fourth Book in the Harry Potter series is Harry Potter and the  Goblet of Fire.   Why then is this listing still up?  Could Doomspell  Tournament possibly be the name of Book 5?<br />By the way, I loved Harry  Potter and the Goblet of Fire.  It had much more detail than the others (of  course!) and the characters are all back for more.  I can't wait to see  what happens next!	2000-09-07
US	52089730	R2COLL97P22712	0781432693	412257506	More Stories from Grandma's Attic (The Grandma's Attic Series)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Excellent... a lot like the Anne of Green Gables series	This book focuses on Mabel, a grandmother now who is raising her own granddaughter.  She tells the funniest stories from her own life on a farm in early America.  Quite clumsy and full of mischief she and her friend and  two brothers learn the hard lessons of life through laughter, sorrow and  getting in trouble with each chapter.  As she matures, her father and  mother instill moral values along the way.  However, much like Anne of  Green Gables her young spirit full of life never leaves her a moment of  rest.	2000-06-20
US	52089730	R1HN12DPADK4HK	0689710887	617172776	Greenwitch	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Excellent for Harry Potter fans	The second of the Dark is Rising sequence draws the reader in once again with the plight of the Old Ones being threatened by the Dark.  The Dark Side has stolen the grail, an important artifact needed to preserve the  world.  In this book, we meet Jane, Barney and their brother.  These three  are relatives of the leader of the Old Ones, even though they are unaware  of their uncle's powers.  Each one of them have their own special powers of  survival, love and loyalty which turn out to be stronger than any power the  Dark Side uses against their quest to retrieve the grail.  Very comparable  to Harry Potter's situation, there are those with powers and without, but  in the end what conquers all is love, friendship, loyalty and the will to  survive.	2000-06-05
US	52089730	R1MYO5ONQFV0C8	0689303173	400011174	The Dark is Rising (The Dark is Rising, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Before Harry Potter...	Before Harry Potter, I was hooked with this series' main character Will Stanton.  Although he looks like a normal boy, he's the last of the Old Ones.  After finding out his true identity, Will embarks on a dangerous journey into a world that overlaps reality but only the Old Ones can  participate in.  Everything that effects this surreal world effects the  real world.  Unfortunately the Dark side (a little like Star Wars) has  found a way to make these two world collide and only Will can keep it from  happening.  Mixing folklore with Arthurian legends, Susan Cooper captivates  her young audience with suspense, plot twists and loyalty that makes this  series worth reading even now at 25!  I own all five books in this series.	2000-06-05
US	52089730	R3MHPU03K0Y8JI	0020421907	807414899	Seaward	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fantastical Love Story	Susan Cooper shines in this story of two young people who havewitnessed their parents' demises and cannot force themselves to dealwith the tragedy.  As they conquer their sorrow together in a quest to reach the sea, their differences, personalities and trust in each other turn into a deep love that cannot be broken. It's only the magical world that can tear them apart and their own lack of belief that they can fulfill their destiny.  A wonderful, morose story full of soulful, lyrical story-telling.  It shines in an age of shallow, straight-forward plots most books today feature.	2000-06-05
US	52089730	R23B2R8WFKGVR0	0679889159	237644619	Page (Protector of the Small, Book 2)	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Series is slowly picking up	Kel is back with the her second and third years of being a Page ahead of her.  Finally her feelings towards a certain older page is revealed and she is growing into a sensitive, yet strong woman warrior.  The new characters are great.  Owen, a year behind her grows into a close friend after  surprising her by fighting back against hazing and  bandits when everyone  else remained in shock.  Jump, her new dog companion adds a lot and  Peachblossum her mount and Queen and her group of Sparrows return. Plus  Neal, Daine, and all the old group have roles in this story too.  You'll  find it funny, exciting, but more likely it will make you want to know more  of what's going to happen to Kel.	2000-05-26
US	52089730	R274Y82YJXSV34	0684842319	527108569	Our Bodies Ourselves For The New Century (A Touchstone book)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Knowledge leads to Self-Actualization	&quot;Our Bodies&quot; became an invaluable source after an unplanned pregnancy.  Coming from a conservative background, I was unprepared to ask my doctor the questions I wanted and really need to and this book provided me the support I needed.  Also, I use it to find out what could be the  cause behind symptons and such for my daughter and myself. Definitely  comprehensive, the index provides a wealth of resource and information. I  will definitely be passing this one on to my daughter.	2000-04-24
US	52089730	R3VMB8ZXDZB0VD	0553110330	72807956	Women's Bodies, Women's Wisdom: Creating Physical and Emotional Health and Healing	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Excellent Source for Women	Women's Bodies, Women's Wisdom has been such a help with my own quest to understand my psyche, health issues, own body structure, function and other issues.  It's so much easier to pick this book up rather than call my doctor and even helps explaining things such as weight issues, emotional  tendencies, and relationships.  Excellent for any questions and a teaching  aid for those with daughters.  Overall it is the most comprehensive book on  females, written by a female who uses her own experiences many times to  explain  her thoughts. I highly recommend having this book on the shelf,  especially if you have females in the house.	2000-04-24
US	52089730	R13FX1FZOEIUNK	0440201845	248561365	The Twisted Window (Laurel-Leaf Suspense Fiction)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Very warped perspective	When I read this book, I expected something different having read Duncan's other books.  However, she captures the true emotional manipulation girls with low self-esteem can be used for.  The suspense keeps you glued to the  book even though it drags at parts. Truly a hitchcock style plot, the twist  and warped perspective behind her reasoning for helping this guy snatch the  girl plays it bizarrely in the end.	2000-04-07
US	52089730	R2AG6FWDNFH4HY	0440983568	730368666	Stranger with My Face	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Great Supernatural Thriller	few writers spook me like Duncan does. Stranger with my Face was the first book of hers I read. Although the actual plot doesn't thrill, its the depth of the bad character's evilness and the manipulating game she plays on the  main character that really makes this story good. Also, there is romance,  family bonding and loyalty among friends that makes this book even better.   If you like romance, spooky thrillers and happy endings, I recommend this  book highly.	2000-04-07
US	52089730	R2QJBH14ERCTUY	044098324X	585592602	Summer of Fear	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Duncan can Scare up good thrills	An excellent suspenseful thriller, Summer for Fear follows Rachel and her cousin Julia in a search of truth, witchcraft and cat-mouse game of wits. After Julia arrives Rachel senses something is wrong with her and questions it while everyone else is enchanted with Julia.  Julia may have powers  unavailable to Rachel but Rachel's love, devotion to her family and  unswerving faith in herself make her a worthy opponent against this evil  invasion.  A definite scary ride on the evil side. If you like romance,  spooky plots and happy endings, this book is for you!	2000-04-07
US	52089730	R4Q571LC15M9J	0064471195	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia Boxed Set	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Before Harry Potter...	While I'm a big fan of the Harry Potter series, it was the Chronicles of Narnia that led me into the wonderful world of fantasy and more importantly reading. These books a little more in-depth with descriptions than Harry Potter might bore small children during some intervals but overall still  captivate their audience no matter what age.  The excitement of a world  that only children can be transported to that has witches, a lion who  willingly sacrifices all for his love for others and the way each child  must learn who they are, what their strenghts might be and to always be  true to friends, beliefs and themselves really shines. It also teaches  invaluable lessons about life at an early stage.  I read them for the first  time at 5-years-old and still love to read them now at 25!	2000-04-07
US	52089730	R3JQBZQ0Y2CPQ4	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent and Captivating	The second Harry Potter book while scarier and not quite for my six-year-old yet, amazed me yet again with the depth of character J.K. Rowling brings to children.  I loved the novel and couldn't put it down.  The story inspires loyalty among children and teaches them never to give up  on themselves, even if they do make mistakes.	2000-04-04
US	52089730	R1NRRXIAXRJWMN	0679801146	154445009	Alanna: The First Adventure (Song of the Lioness, Vol. 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Excellent for Girls	The book follows Alanna as she disguises herself as a boy while her twin brother goes on to study magic.   Alanna, disciplined and independent sets an example as a strong female character.  The book is humorous, thoughtful  and shows a vastness for emotion and loyalty among friends.   This book  shines for its ability to show girls can have spirit, spunk and still be  sensitive and feminine. I think that's one of the hardest lessons for girls  today and this book really shows it well. I plan on exposing my daughter to  this book as she gets older. The book really brought me inspiration when I  was younger and I read it 12 years ago for the first time. Now they sit on  my bookshelf and I still enjoy re-reading them again at 25!	2000-04-04
US	52089730	R2I5GBYGLJ7LO2	0060273224	962868136	Sabriel (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Truly Spectacular	Unaware of its amazing story, I picked this book up as a feature in the library.  The story of Sabriel is impressive and moving.  It never dumbs down the characters but the plot moves slow sometimes because it does so. However, the images can be disturbing but to keep the novel realistic,  Nix's descriptions are detailed and somewhat horrific. In the end, the  characters and plot are woven into a surprisingly loving story about family  ties, loyalty, sacrifice and love. This book entertains all ages, but keep  in mind some things are descriptive and may scare and turn off younger  ears.	2000-04-04
US	52089730	R1SN2OT5GC7D4Q	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Excellent Fantasy novel for all ages	Finally, a little person's fantasy world publicized.  I read this novel to my 5-year-old daughter and she loves it.  Of course, a small bit of the end will be edited for her ears, but when she gets older, she may read it all  she wants.  I thoroughly enjoyed the entire book.  Humorous, serious, and  thoughtful towards building loyal friendships this book really shines.	1999-11-05
US	52089730	RJEP2ZW36NSWX	0679889140	948974113	First Test (Protector of the Small)	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	Hardly comparable to the Lioness Series	While First Test whets my appetite for Tortallan stories, Kel hardly stacks up to Pierce's two previous heroines Alanna and Daine.   Pierce you need to give her more character. She's too fluffy and stereotypical. The  bully thing pretty much sums up how everyone feels about bullies... Give  her some spunk and something to really be afraid of.  Her mother has  spirit... draw on her similarities with her mother.  And give her a real  test.  We already knew all the trials she would suffer having followed  Alanna through it.  I want some real action.  And with all the immortals  walking around, let's see what really should be fought. It was a good read,  but dragged having read the Lioness Quartet and Immortal Series	1999-11-05
