US	52090990	RKIKNOEP59LKN	0060524030	459013732	Reign of Iron: The Story of the First Battling Ironclads, the Monitor and the Merrimack	Books	5	13	14	N	N	One of the finest history books I have read	James L. Nelson put his considerable writing skills of naval fiction into creating this outstanding historical work. Most history is dry reading, but this book reads like an excellent novel. Nelson covers the political turmoil and indecision at the outset of the Civil War and the failure of the incompetent commander of the Norfolk/Gosport naval facilities to destroy military stores and the Merrimack. The Confederates captured large numbers of cannon and tons of ordinance as well as the repairable Merrimack and a good dry-dock. When it was discovered that the Merrimack had been raised and the Confederates were converting it to an iron-clad, the Union panic began. It was hard to get the Monitor built because the old-school naval commanders did not like to innovate. Finally, the design of Swede John Ericsson was accepted, but to get the ship built, Ericsson mostly financed the construction with his own money. <br />In early March 1862 the Monitor was completed and sent to deal with the Merrimack (CSS Virginia), but she almost sank in rough seas and was barely saved. Meanwhile, a day before the Monitor arrived, the Merrimack had destroyed to Union frigates, the Cumberland and the Congress. It was a fierce battle but the wooden ships in the area could do nothing but run or be destroyed. The only thing keeping the Merrimack from escaping were large caliber cannon on forts in the area that could deliver plunging fire. On the 9th of March, the Monitor and Merrimack dueled for several hours with little damage to each other, few casualties, and no clear winner, but the Monitor and the forts were enough to keep the Merrimack bottled-up. The Confederates wanted to move the Merrimack to Richmond, but the waterways were too shallow, so they blew her up. The Monitor remained on station for several weeks before being sent to Charleston. On the trip, she again encountered heavy seas and sank. What a stupid waste. <br />What I found most interesting about this famous engagement was the weapons used by the ships. At times the ships were almost touching and a point-blank range, neither ship could deliver a crippling blow. Nelson reveals that the Merrimack was using explosive shells, which are very destructive when hitting wooden ships, but of no penetrating power when exploding against armor. The Monitor had large caliber cannon firing solid shot which should have been able to penetrate the sloping armor of the Merrimack. But the Monitor's cannon were restricted to using half powder charges. Using full charges would have enabled the Monitor's solid shot to penetrate the Merrimack's armor. One would think that after seeing the shots bouncing off the Monitor, someone would have had enough sense to increase the powder charges.	2004-12-18
US	52090990	R1MLLL5KB7WJRE	0060505478	154559931	A Question of Loyalty: Gen. Billy Mitchell and the Court-Martial That Gripped the Nation	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A very good biography of a controversial person	This is a very good biography of one of the 20th century's controversial figures; Army General Billy Mitchell. Prior to his court-martial in 1925, Mitchell had served in combat in the Spanish-American war and rose to Brigadier General in World War I as Pershing's Air Commander. Mitchell is best remembered for his demonstration of aircraft sinking a battleship. The movie \\"The Court- martial of Billy Mitchell\\" staring Gary Cooper glamorized the sinking and the court-martial. The battle ship was stationary and it took two days and many bombs to sink it. But, Mitchell proved correct about the vulnerability of capitol ships, as demonstrated in World War II. Mitchell liked to live the good life and to supplement his income, he did a lot of writing that cut against the grain of the mind set of the military commanders. What really got him in trouble was his press release after the disastrous loss of the airship Shenandoah and the loss of a Navy seaplane attempting a nonstop flight from San Diego to Hawaii. His press release was so scathing of the military command, there was no option but a court-martial for insubordination. Mitchell had many good ideas, but he went about pushing them forward the wrong way. He had a big mouth and no patience and in the end, got what he deserved. <br />A couple of interesting facts. Eddie Rickenbacker, famous WWI ace, was Mitchell's driver and Mitchell put him in the air. Douglas McArther was a member of the court-martial board. When asked after he had read the screenplay for the Mitchell movie if he could accurately play Mitchell, Gary Cooper replied, \\"I get paid to play myself\\".	2004-12-18
US	52090990	R2VEF9AABP56NT	0805425519	762793052	The Jericho Sanction (International Intrigue Trilogy #2)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Above average techno-thriller with engaging characters	Oliver North and Joe Musser have created an above average techno-thriller with a great cast of characters. The story revolves around Marine Lt. Colonel Peter Newman. There are three nuclear artillery shells hidden in Iraq, sold to one of Saddam Hussein's henchmen (long dead) by the traitorous Soviet general, Komulakov. American and Israeli intelligence are made aware of the weapons existence by the frantic search of the Iraqis to find the hidden weapons. Newman must go into Iraq and find the weapons before Israel unleashes a preemptive nuclear strike. Meanwhile, Newman's wife Rachael and friend Dyan are kidnapped and held hostage by Komulakov. Komulakov wants Newman to uncover a mole in the American intelligence service that can expose his treachery and ruin his chance of disrupting the election of Putin so he can grab the Russian presidency for himself. There are some great sequences of small unit covert actions and interesting information about satellite reconnaissance and electronic intercept capabilities.	2004-12-18
US	52090990	R2W9T2P3UAV0RK	0060731583	486983213	AMERICAN SOLDIER	Books	5	6	8	N	N	An excellent autobiography & insider look @ war on terrorism	This was like reading two books. The first half follows Franks growing up in a sometimes poor family in Oklahoma and Texas. He enrolled in the University of Texas, Austin, where he flunked out after two years. He decided to join the Army, where he settled down. After finishing basic and going to cryptography school, he applied for and was accepted into OCS (Officer Candidate School) at Fort Sill, Oklahoma to become an artillery officer. Franks then shipped out to Vietnam, where he served as an artillery observer with the 9th Infantry Division. He spend a lot of time in the field where he was in numerous fire fights. He also flew as an observer in light aircraft and helicopters. He was wounded several times and shot down once. He served with some good men and learned valuable lessons which he would later apply throughout his Army career. After leaving Vietnam, he decided to stay in the Army, where he was put through school to finish his college degree. He then went on to numerous postings around the world where he built a reputation of honesty and hard work and continuously rose in rank. When desert Storm commenced, he was promoted to Brigadier General and served as assistant division commander of the 1st Calvary Division.    General Franks was promoted and put in command of Central Command (CENTCOM) before 9/11/2001. His command covered North Eastern Africa, the Middle East, and parts of Asia. After 9/11, Franks and his team were responsible for planning and executing the operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. America was fortunate to have a soldier of intelligence, spirit, flexibility, and energy to lead these dangerous operations. In addition to doing their utmost to keep our troops safe, CENTCOM also had the responsibility to deal with staggering logistical problems, humanitarian aid, and limited combat resources. Franks also had to deal with the Press, which rarely puts a positive slant on military operations. Today the Press is still whining about the lack of WMD,but use of WMD was deemed a real threat during the Iraqi operation. He also had to deal with leaks to the press from military insiders with their own agendas.    This book also offers a fascinating insider's view of President Bush; his willingness to take the advice of his military and political leaders, and his ability to make hard decisions and take responsibility. Secretaries Rumsfeld and Powel are depicted as no-nonsense hard working men, with the best interest of our country in mind. Though they did have differences in how to approach the many problems, they still worked well together. On the other hand, Tenent of the CIA talked a good game, but provided little intelligence of any use.	2004-09-01
US	52090990	R2HQBERCD6EIKH	0025630709	601888909	And a Hard Rain Fell: A Gi's True Story of the War in Vietnam	Books	1	10	23	N	N	More like &quot;Woe is Me&quot;	Save your money! The author was a draftee motor pool mechanic that accidentally got caught in a little action. Most of the book is a lot of whining about the Army and America. The author spent most of his time in Vietnam drinking, smoking dope, and pining over some Thai prostitute. When he got home, he burned his uniform. This book may interest Michael Moron (Moore) as the subject of his next documentary.	2004-06-28
US	52090990	R3MEJGCHEQ7K2B	0803494718	272107996	Shannon: U.S. Marshal - An Avalon Western	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A classic shoot 'em up!	It is several years since tragic events changed the life of Sheriff Clayton Shannon. Now, the mining town Whiskey Creek is becoming a ghost town since the mines played out and Shannon is ready to retire from the law and buy a small ranch. Before Shannon leaves, his ex-deputy and good friend Pedro Rodrigues approaches him with the prospect of a job. There is trouble in Los Santos, New Mexico Territory. The Alvarez family, long time friends of Pedro, need the help of and experienced lawman. A ruthless land grabber, calling himself King Kruger, has moved into the town with a gang of hired guns and is forcing ranchers to sell out at bargain prices. Those ranchers that refuse sell, meet with accidents or are murdered like the father of the Alvarez family. Clay refuses to be a hired gun, but the Alvarez family's political clout has enabled them to obtain an appointment as a marshal in New Mexico.<br />Clay is convinced by the beautiful Carlota Alvarez to help and he heads off to Los Santos and plenty of trouble. While en route, he encounters a mysterious dark stranger that goes by the name Kane. Kane and Shannon have a mutual respect for each other, but Kane is a strange one that Shannon can't figure out. It seems that they could be friends but destiny has another path for them.	2004-06-24
US	52090990	R21171QZCEWLIZ	0803494106	117354036	Shannon's Law - An Avalon Western	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A first-rate western	A classic first-rate western cut from the same mould as those of Zane Gray and Louis L'Amour. This is the first of three books in a series (&quot;Shannon's Way&quot; and &quot;Shannon: U.S. Marshal&quot; follow). Clay Shannon is a straight talking, strait shooting deputy sheriff sent to the small mining town of Whiskey Creek to replace the previous deputy that was murdered. When he arrives, he finds that the town is run by saloon owner Ace Parker and his right hand man, Nick Slade. In their employ are a bunch of scum that will do almost anything. Murder and robbery are common and the miners and any townsmen that get in the way are the victims. Shannon doesn't have much in the way of help except an old man that helps mind the jail, another ex-lawman, Pedro Rodriguez that works in the freight office, and a woman, Kathy Winters, that runs one of the town restaurants. Shannon is determined to find proof of the killings and robberies so he can put Parker and his gang out of business. When Shannon starts nosing around, things turn ugly fast and a  monumental showdown becomes inevitable.	2004-06-24
US	52090990	RJTSJ4PP5K1G6	0060563710	512011652	Hadrian's Wall	Books	3	28	30	N	N	If you like romance novels, this one is pretty good	I was fooled by the cover and endorsements on the jacket. I was expecting Roman Legions battling it out with barbarians. There is one great battle at the end, but this is really a romance novel set in 375 AD Britain. Tribune Galba Brassidius expects to be the new commander of the Petriana cavalry at the Hadrian Wall fort Petrianais, but he is supplanted by an inexperienced Praefectus, Marcus Flavius, from Rome. Marcus has obtained the post through a financial arrangement with a Roman senator. In exchange for money, Marcus gets the new posting and the hand of the senator's daughter, Valeria. This arrangement gives him the prestige of a senatorial connection, and a field command to further his career. An irate Galba has his own agenda. He has been dealing on both sides of Hadrian's Wall, and he enlists the aide of a Celtic Chieftain, Arden Caratacus, to kidnap Valeria. Galba hopes to incite war between the Celts and Romans and get Marius killed, take his wife, and in the process, become a hero. A naive Valeria loathes Galba's crude advances, is puzzled by her husband's indifference, ignores the worship of young tribune Clodius, and struggles with her growing feelings for the young Celt, Arden. Valeria also ignores the advice of her wise slave Savia. Much of the story is related in the aftermath by Roman investigator Draco, who is trying to piece together the cause of the catastrophe.	2004-06-24
US	52090990	RFPX65J0HOBNV	0803495307	986606326	Shannon: Carrying the Star (Avalon Western)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great western and the best Shannon book yet!	This is book four in the Shannon series and a pleasant prequel that gives insight into what made Shannon the honest and determined lawman in &quot;Shannon's Law&quot;, &quot;Shannon's Way&quot;, and &quot;Shannon: US Marshal&quot;.<br />In the small Kansas town of Dry Wells, 19 year old Clay Shannon takes his father's place as town marshal when his father is murdered by Pete Catlett. He manages to arrest Pete and is talked into remaining marshal and dealing with the trouble bound to come from the feared Catlett clan. The young marshal seeks out retired Marshal Lane to get advice. Lane tells him: expect the unexpected; if you have to shoot, shoot to kill; and take every advantage you can. These words of sound advice are taken to heart by Clay and he will learn their value and the cost for not heeding them..<br />Clay has to kill Pete while taking him to the county seat for trial and the inevitable showdown with the Catlett clan is a close thing, but fortunately at the last minute, Clay gets unexpected help. For all his efforts, the mayor fires Clay because of all the violence he brought to the town. Clay moves on to the town of Longhorn where he gets a job on the recommendation of Lane as a town deputy under Marshal Hollister. When the other deputies see the old sidearm Clay is carrying, they suggest he will need something better. Clay takes their advice and spends almost everything he has to buy his Colt 45 Peacemaker. This Colt will save his life in Longhorn and many times in the future. The experiences Clay has in the rough and tumbled town of Longhorn forge him into a formidable lawman.	2004-06-24
US	52090990	R3G2IWS4UZBSLF	0803494408	14416275	Shannon's Way : An Avalon Western	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A gritty western with lots of action	This is the second of three books in the Shannon Saga (&quot;Shannon's Law&quot; and &quot;Shannon: U.S. Marshal&quot; are #1 and #3). These books are first-rate westerns. Several years after cleaning up Whiskey Creek, Shannon is now happily married to Kathy Winters and has a young son. He has remained at Whiskey Creek as the Deputy Sheriff and things are downright peaceful. One evening, a stranger smashes his way into Shannon's home with vengeance on his mind. Kathy surprises the stranger before he can kill Shannon and Shannon kills him. Shannon knows something bad is about to happen but can't piece it together.<br />The next day, Bully Drago and his gang show up, kill Shannon's deputy, rob the bank, and capture Shannon. It turns out that one of the Ace Parker gang that Shannon killed was Drago's brother and he wants to make Shannon suffer. He kidnaps Shannon's son for the purpose of killing the boy before Shannon's eyes. The townsmen rally and in the ensuing gunfight, several of the townsmen and gangsters are killed, but as Drago is escaping, he slams the boy to the ground and a passing horse kicks the boy's head. Shannon wants to take after the gang, but his boy is in a coma. He tries to stop a bunch of hot heads that form a posse to chase the robbers but to no avail.<br />Shannon can't wait and sets off after the gang. Outside of town he finds the posse ambushed and all dead. Determined, Shannon heads into the high country in pursuit to bring the killers to justice. He is later joined by his old friend Pedro Rodriguez and the two of them fight the elements and ambushes and doggedly track Bully Drago and his gang to a final showdown.	2004-06-24
US	52090990	R3N8PS4FWBQPB8	0805075615	641939565	In the Company of Soldiers: A Chronicle of Combat	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Modern combat as viewed from the division command level	Rick Atkinson was assigned as an embedded reporter with the command element of the 101st airborne division for the 2003 Iraqi war. He spent most of his time with the division commander, general Patraeus and his staff. This is not a chronicle of heavy combat, but an interesting look at what it takes to deploy, supply, and direct a division into combat. There were many problems to be overcome. Sand wrecked equipment, sometimes food and water were in short supply, and the Iraqi soldiers continually changed their methods of attack forcing the US forces to adjust their tactics. The command also had to take advantage of opportunities as they were presented, but be cautious due to the nature of the 101st; light infantry without heavy weapons or armor. Though not on a par with &quot;An Army at Dawn&quot;, it is an insightful look at the responsibilities and decision making processes at the top.	2004-03-30
US	52090990	R3NA7W0MBFNNWX	0195159012	721748762	The Illustrated Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era	Books	5	21	21	N	N	An excellent single volume history of the American Civil War	This is an excellent single volume history of the American Civil War. Originally published in 1988, this updated version of the Pulitzer Prize winning history now includes haunting photographs, maps, paintings, and newspaper cartoons. This is much more than a history of the war. It covers the people, economics, political atmosphere, and events that led America into disaster. All of the major land battles and campaigns are covered as well as naval action at sea and on America's rivers. Reading this book gives one a taste of the anger, hate, frustration, and political intensity of the time. Both Northern and Southern armies suffered horrific casualties from the battles, disease, and the crude medical technology available, making the Civil War the bloodiest war in American history. If you are going to read a single volume  history of the Civil War, this is the best one in my opinion written to date. It should be required reading for students of American History.	2003-11-12
US	52090990	R1X2VLM24WWB1P	0375411976	324687820	A Question of Honor: The Kosciuszko Squadron: Forgotten Heroes of World War II	Books	4	180	183	N	N	An interesting & informative history of Poland during WW II	I usually find history books dull, but this one is well written and surprisingly readable. The title implies that this book is about the Kosciuszko Squadron, but it also covers Polish history from World War I until their freedom from Soviet rule. Kosciuszko Squadron was 303 Squadron of the British Royal Air Force during the Battle of Britain, which with 126 kills was the highest scoring squadron of the battle. After the fall of Poland, many of its soldiers, sailors, and airmen made it to Britain where they begged to get into the fight. At first the Polish fliers were shown little regard, but when the British were in trouble, they finally let the Poles fly. 303 Squadron (and 302) in Hurricane fighters accounted for over 150 German planes shot down. The Poles also filled out squadrons of RAF Bomber Command, and along with their fellow fighter pilots, fought with distinction and high casualties until the end of the war. Poland also fielded an airborne brigade that fought in Holland, and armored division that fought in France, and several infantry divisions that fought in Italy.<BR>Poland fought a little known war with the Soviet Union in 1919-1920 in which they embarrassed the Soviets and in particular Stalin, who would later get his revenge. When the Germans invaded Poland in 1939, Nazi propaganda portrayed them as easy prey, using cavalry against tanks and running from battle. To some extent, this vision of the Poles still is believed to this day. This book goes a long way to dispel that misinformation. Although greatly out-gunned, the Poles put up a valiant fight with antiquated equipment, killing over 16,000 German soldiers, destroying 1/4 of their tanks, and shooting down 1/5 of their planes. The Poles were still fighting hard when Stalin stabbed them in the back when he signed a pact with Hitler and invaded Eastern Poland. The Russians murdered thousands of Polish officers and soldiers in one of the most despicable acts of World War II that they never admitted until long after the war. Throughout their occupation during the war, the Poles had a large underground army (which the Allies did little to help) that continued to defy the Germans and were prepared to fight when the allies came to liberate Poland. The Poles actually helped the Soviet cause by subtle sabotage of the rail systems that impeded German troop and supply movements to the Russian front. Unfortunately, the only Allied army to arrive was the Soviet Army, and we all know what followed for decades. Even under the Soviet thumb, the Poles refused to give up their religion and national pride and shunned Marxism. Today, Poland is again a free country thanks to the Solidarity Movement and the collapse of the Soviet Union.<BR>I was outraged to learn the details of the disgraceful treatment of the Polish Nation by Roosevelt and Churchill. We sold them out at Yalta along with millions of refugees to please Stalin. After fighting and dying to preserve freedom, they had no free home to return to. Some returned to Poland where they were not well received by the Soviet's puppet government and others scattered around the world. The final insult after the war was the British victory parade in London. Not a single Pole was allowed to march for fear of offending Stalin. When the Poles arrived in Britain, they started out as distrusted, then they became heroes due to their air exploits, and finally they sank to outcast status. They deserved better treatment than they received, certainly more than our illustrious French allies.	2003-09-25
US	52090990	RFPESFYVZJKXR	0805062882	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 (The Liberation Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Destined to be a history classic of WWII	This is a fine history of the US Army's campaign in North Africa. Rick Atkinson writes with great skill and this book is a pleasure to read. The US Army entered the campaign poorly trained, ill equipped, and in some cases poorly led, and the German Army made it pay dearly until incompetent officers were relieved and the combat units learned how to fight effectively against professionals. The author does not hold back and relates the bad with the good. I was disgusted with the \\"cover your butt\\" attitude that prevailed that got many good field commanders canned and incompetents rewarded. One can only wonder at the waste and stupidity that cost so many fine young Americans their lives. It was the battles fought in North Africa that trained the likes of Eisenhower, Bradley, and Patton, Clark, and others for the coming campaigns in Europe, and the lessons were expensive. The book covers all the major engagements with views from the command positions down to small unit actions in a lively manner. As the title indicates, \\"An Army at Dawn\\" was \\"An Army Just Waking Up\\"!<BR>--Ken Smith ...	2002-10-10
US	52090990	R2TMIAUG1SDTWF	1569472599	671504033	The Blooding of the Guns	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great fictional account of the WWI naval battle of Jutland	This is a fine fictional account of the Battle of Jutland. Jutland was the one major engagement between the British and German navies in World War I on 30 May, 1916. The clash involved hundreds of ships ranging from small destroyers to 30,000 ton battleships. During the battle the British learned of a major design flaw in their battle cruisers. These ships were lightly armored for speed but armed with large caliber main guns to match battleships. Unfortunately, the magazines were not properly protected from the turrets firing above them and the had a tendency to blowup and disintegrate the entire ship. Most of this novel takes place during the battle. The author gives excellent descriptions of the equipment, crews, tactics, and running and handling of the ships that participated in the action. The battle sequences are exciting and realistic. The main characters are Hugh Everard, Captain of a Queen Elizabeth class battleship. He is the mentor of his nephews, David and Nick. David is older than Nick and an experienced sailor assigned on a battle cruiser. The inexperienced Nick is newly assigned to a Destroyer. Each of these three men are severely tested during the battle. This is the first novel in the Everard saga and well worth the read, but be warned: these novels can be addictive.	2002-07-03
US	52090990	R1YSOK9EOUCXQI	0805056866	410651536	Eisenhower: A Soldier's Life	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Decent biography & honest look at Allied commanders of WW2	Eisenhower was never one of my favorite generals and this book didn't change my opinion, but it did give me a better understanding of the man and the tremendous problems he faced as the Allied Commander of the European Theater during World War II. I don't know why Roosevelt and Marshall picked Eisenhower for a job he wasn't qualified for. The British had little faith in him but accepted him because they figured they could manipulate him, and this proved to be true early in the war. But in the end, Eisenhower shouldered the responsibilities, made the tough decisions, dealt with the French, and got the job done. This book gives an honest insightful look at the men that ran the war, their strengths and weaknesses, and their triumphs and disasters. I found that D'Este's coverage of such luminaries as Montgomery, Patton, Bradley, and Alexander (to name but a few) a real education. This is a real eye-opener for those who thought the Allied Armies were the best trained, equipped, and led. This book led me to the conclusion that we won the war because we were better able to recover from our mistakes and replace our losses. This is a great read for World War II history buffs.	2002-06-26
US	52090990	RJGE5G4JYT8FU	1564740439	225607863	The Savage Trail: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fast paced western of murder, relentless pursuit and revenge	Grant Starbuck, marshal of the small Texas town Comanche Wells, returns home after chasing cattle rustlers to find the town has been looted, ravaged, and most of the buildings burned by a band of bandits from across the Mexican border. Among the dead are his wife and his two small children, found burned to death in the ashes of his home. Grant does not want justice, he wants revenge and he sets out alone to hunt down and kill every one of the murders or die trying. Grant becomes even more enraged during his pursuit as he finds the raped, murdered, and mutilated bodies of some of the women the bandits kidnapped from his town. As he catches up with some of the bandits as they lay in ambush, he guns them down without mercy and continues his chase into the very heart of the bandit's lair.Although he sets out alone on his quest for vengeance, Grant gets help along the way from the likes of the Mexican Army, the US Army, and the wife of a murdered rancher, Kate Beaumont. But to say more would spoil the story. Just saddle-up and go along for the ride as Grant Starbuck blazes away with his Colt Peacemaker and frontier justice is served up in it's rawest form.	2002-06-26
US	52090990	R19F3GVM12M5LJ	0786867833	714835956	Twenty-Five Yards of War: The Extraordinary Courage of Ordinary Men inWorld War II	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A fine collection of personal accounts of WWII action	This book contains accounts of 10 actions in WWII; some famous, some unknown. Some of the more famous actions covered are Doolittle's raid on Tokyo, the battles for Iwo Jima and Betio, and the 82nd drop into Normandy. My favorite account in this book is the little known stand made by Lt. Lyle Bouck and an I&amp;R platoon from the 99th Infantry Division. This untested unit just happened to be at the town of Lanzerath when the Battle of the Bulge started. They were ordered to hold until relieved. The men fought hard until they were killed, overrun, or surrendered when out of ammunition. Although badly outgunned and outnumbered, they managed to hold up advancing German infantry and armored units long enough for engineering units at critical points behind them to blow up bridges and further delay the German advance. Their gallant stand bought time for reinforcements to arrive and stem the tide of battle. This is an enjoyable read and will appeal to anyone with an interest in WWII. The author was instrumental in the research for Ambrose's book, &quot;D-Day  June 6th, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II&quot;.	2001-11-16
US	52090990	R2LV2LTI9RF1T5	0374131430	853021791	Crescent and Star: Turkey Between Two Worlds	Books	4	7	9	N	N	An informative look at modern Turkey and it's roots.	This book gives a good overview of the historical roots of modern Turkey. Today's Turkey was formed from remnants of the Ottoman Empire shortly after it's defeat in World War I. A group of military officers led by Kamel Ataturk (the Father of Modern Turkey) took control of what was left of the Empire and put in place a military stewardship that has tried to slowly bring Turkey into the modern world in the mold of a European nation, not an Asian nation. Several civilian governments have taken control in past decades, but they drifted from the ideal established by Ataturk and the military stepped in to reestablish moderation. The military has fought liberals as well as radicals and has kept the government secular, supervising and picking acceptable ministers and controlling elections. Turkey has been beset with many internal problems. They have a diverse population and have just finished a long and bloody war with the Kurds that populate their easter provinces. (The Kurds were backed, armed, and financed by Syria just to bring Turkey down a notch). The author aptly explains why Turkey is at a crossroad where it can achieve greatness or sink into obscurity. The Turkish people are a good people. Most of the population is not Arabic. The predominant religion is Islam. The country stands between Europe and Asia and is surrounded by potential danger. The Turks are still waiting and hoping to gain complete freedom in their country. In addition to the historical and political background, the author gives insight about the country and it's people from experience gained by wide travel throughout the country and close contact with many of the diverse people that live there.	2001-11-15
US	52090990	R3VOZ9SREI1S7O	0374117470	56358248	By Any Means Necessary: America's Secret Air War in the Cold War	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A long overdue tribute to America's Cold War Warriors	At the end of World War II we found ourselves faced with a new enemy, the Soviet Union. Unfortunately, we knew little about them and they made every effort to close their borders. When Russia obtained nuclear weapons, America and Russia scrambled to create strategic forces to assure annihilation of their enemy if they should be so stupid as to attack The Strategic Air Command (SAC) was formed for America's deterrent force (the first leg of the triad which later included land based ICBMs and Navy ballistic missile submarines). But SAC was faced with a real problem: what and where are the targets? We knew where the major cities were, but we did not want to attack the civilian population. Thus America began a series of bold incursions into Russia to find strategic targets. The British also contributed with some daring flights over Russia and Eastern Europe. The early spy planes were converted World War II prop driven relics that were easy prey for Mig-15 and Mig-17 fighters and several were lost with their crews. America replaced the aging prop planes with Boeing's RB-47, Martin's RB-57 and the famous U-2. Several of these planes were shot down, some over international waters. The spy missions later expanded to include radar mapping and gathering of electronic intelligence. We needed to know where radar sites were and what frequencies they were operating at in order for out bombers to penetrate. Many missions were also carried out against North Korea and China. Intelligence gathering flights continue today, but satellites now do much of the job. The most recent incident is the collision of a Navy intelligence plane and a Chinese fighter in early 2001. The author also covers the distress of the families of the missing men and the Governments continued veil of secrecy surrounding the loss of aircraft and crew. I had no idea that we had lost dozens of aircraft and hundreds of crewmen. This is a story that deserves to be told and read by all Americans.	2001-10-26
US	52090990	RC6TKXTUDM4ED	0805064222	101663882	The Good German: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A taut murder investigation set in 1945 post-war Berlin	A news correspondent in Berlin before the war, Jake Geismar, now returns to cover the Potsdam Conference and write articles for Colliers Magazine. Jake's highest priority is finding his former lover Lena, the wife of a pre-war university mathematics professor and later Nazi scientist working in the German rocket program. When a lieutenant that flew into Berlin with Jake is found dead by Russian guards at a reception near Potsdam with thousands of occupation marks in his pockets, Jake can't resist becoming involved in the investigation. Jake's search for answers leads to involvement with the Army CID (Criminal Investigation), Army Intelligence, and Russian Intelligence. Jake enlists the aid of a former savvy German policeman and people in the black market to find the reasons behind the murder. As his investigation proceeds, the situation becomes increasingly dangerous and he finds himself not knowing who to trust. This is an interesting read with more than a murder investigation at its core. The author paints a vivid picture of Berlin immediately after the end of World War II. The destruction was massive and disease, hunger, and displaced persons were everywhere. The Berliners had to degrade themselves to eat and survive. The birth of a huge black market and the chance for riches infected the Allies as well as the Germans. Destroying information and creating false documents to protect those guilty of war crimes was a thriving business. The tension between the Western Allies and the Russians was at a dangerous level and the competition between these former Allies for the services of German scientists was intense.	2001-10-17
US	52090990	R3B3L00A4Q0X8M	0805066985	148614029	Pearl Harbor Betrayed: The True Story of a Man and a Nation under Attack	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A good analysis of what went wrong	This book examines the reasons why the American forces were so inadequately prepared for the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. Only one chapter deals with the actual attack, the rest focuses on the failures in intelligence, communication, and inter-service cooperation. The intelligence and resources that were available to CINPAC and other obstacles that interfered with the defense of the fleet and bases are examined. Gannon makes a good case that much of the blame should go to Adm. Richmond Kelly Turner, then chief of the Navy War Plans Division. Turner withheld some of the detailed intelligence available and passed out only vague warnings. There was an intercepted coded message to the Japanese consul in Honolulu asking whether the Navy had barrage balloons and torpedo nets installed at Pearl. Hello!!!<br />The scramble was on after the attack to find the parties responsible for the disaster, and those with any possible responsibility ducked for cover. It took a board of inquiry for Kimmel to gain access to the pre-Pearl Harbor decrypted Japanese messages. The board exonerated Kimmel, but CNO Adm. King reversed the board's findings and Kimmel was found guilty of dereliction of duty.<br />Lt. Gen Short, the Army commander really messed up. There was radar available, but only one set was operating. When this unit picked up the incoming Japanese formations and sent in the information, their sighting was discounted. Short was also responsible for the order to concentrate the fighters into tight groups to defend against sabotage, making them nice easy targets. The fighters were not even armed and ready to do their job. The number of Army troops available could have easily guarded the aircraft.<br />This book should appeal to anyone interested in the attack on Pearl Harbor. My Dad was on the U.S.S. Dobbin during the attack and he told me that the officers with the keys to the ammunition lockers were ashore and they had to beat the locks off with fire axes. When the reportof the sinking of a midget submarine came in, going to General Quarters would have greatly increased the defensive response and helped reduce American casualties and damage to ships and bases.	2001-09-25
US	52090990	R2RETI2830GBSJ	0971039208	582217790	Hitler Stopped By Franco	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Franco did Allies a favor by staying out of the war	This is an unusual history book written in the format of a novel. This makes the book very readable and presents the historical figures in a more lifelike way than the usual dry history books. The material for this book is drawn from historical records, documents, and interviews with surviving members of Franco's family and retired officials of the Spanish government.<br />I have always wondered why Franco and Spain did not enter the war on the side of the Axes and this book gives a good answer: Franco was for the survival of Spain. Spain had just ended a savage civil war with over one million dead. The country's infrastructure was on the verge of collapse and the population was on the brink of starvation. Spain owed huge debts and the army did not have the equipment or supplies to enter any conflict. Franco had to seem to favor the Axis and played a very dangerous game with Hitler, keeping him believing that as soon as possible, Spain would enter the war. Franco was a cleaver fox and knew how to play the game of words as a means of delay.<br />Hitler badly wanted Gibraltar and Franco refused to let him move troops through Spain to capture it. Enraged, Hitler moved 20 divisions of the German Army to the Spanish border, but Franco refused to be intimidated. He moved his own troops to the border and poured concrete bunkers (Spain had no shortage of concrete) and threatened Hitler with guerrilla war. Hitler realized that it would be too costly to wage that kind of war and backed off, eventually having to withdraw his army for use against the Russians.<br />If Franco had allied Spain with the Axis and given Hitler the doorway to the Mediterranean, the results would have been disastrous for the Allies. Franco did us a huge favor by remaining neutral and keeping his country from German occupation.	2001-09-25
US	52090990	R3820IHM39XRVY	0962563234	7753903	Henry Lunt and the Ranger	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good historical naval fiction and a fun read	This is great historical fiction based on fact! Henry Lunt is a prisoner of the British in Scotland until he and the men with him are freed by John Paul Jones. Jones and the Ranger are raiding commerce around the British Isles and embarrassing the British Government. Jones is also on a secret mission to destroy or capture HMS Drake, which is based in Ireland. Lunt is appointed by Jones as lieutenant and sent ashore to scout the Belfast harbor for targets of opportunity. While there, Lunt discovers that the Drake is testing a new weapon that will make small ships the equal of large ships in battle. He gets involved with a beautiful French spy and has some close run-ins with the British before escaping back to the Ranger. But his efforts manage to draw the Drake out to do battle with the Ranger. The book culminates with a rousing sea battle. This book was published in 1991 with the promise of &quot;Henry Lunt and the Spymaster&quot; in 1992, and &quot;Henry Lunt at Flamborough Head&quot; in 1993. I have not yet found these books, but I will certainly buy, read, and review any Henry Lunt novels. This was an enjoyable read and a cut above it's genre.	2001-05-11
US	52090990	R2E5NWHWUB2LK2	0805068031	3918433	Day of Infamy, 60th Anniversary: The Classic Account of the Bombing of Pearl Harbor	Books	5	31	32	N	N	An outstanding account of the Pearl Harbor attack	This is one of the best books written about the attack on Pearl Harbor. This book is based on historical documents and the personal accounts of soldiers, sailors, and civilians; both American and Japanese. The planning behind the attack by the Japanese high command and the launch and the almost perfect execution of the attack are described in riveting detail. The observations by the crewmen on the Japanese war ships and the crews of the attacking aircraft are educational. Admiral Nagumo, commander of the attacking forces could have launched a second attack and caused even more destruction, but fortunately for us, he was over cautious. There is no attempt to hide the many mistakes made by the American commanders or the missed opportunities to foil the attack or at least blunt the devastating effects. Submarines were spotted and attacked and the incoming aircraft were spotted by radar, but nobody took notice. When the actual attack was under way, many thought if was some sort of drill. A lot of good men lost their lives and there were incredible acts of heroism. This book contains many tales of bravery, terror, and determination. 2403 Americans lost their lives on December 7th, 1941. The Japanese lost 5 midget submarines, one large submarine, and 29 aircraft with 55 crewmen. It was a small price to pay for such an overwhelming victory, but the cost to Japan in the long run we all know.	2001-05-01
US	52090990	R2VYM4DBXIWVDF	0595168485	938975946	Vantage Points: A Novel of Men and Women in World War II	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An enjoyable fast-paced WWII novel with broad appeal	This is a fine first novel about flying, romance, and people caught up in great events. The main character, Louise Mitchell, is an exceptional pilot and when the opportunity presents itself, she becomes a member of the Women's Auxiliary Ferrying Squadron ( WAFS, later called the Women's Air Forces Service Pilots, or WASPs). Louise spends much of the war delivering everything from slow trainers to hot fighters from factories and airfields to where they are needed. This book honors the many women that did a dangerous job and a great service for their country. Because of them, many male pilots were freed to go off to war where they were desperately needed. The WASPs did a thankless job and got little or no recognition for their service until recent times. When the war was nearing its end, they were dismissed pretty cold-heartedly with no future and none of the benefits that were afforded to other veterans.    The other main characters are Tom Clark, an advisor to President Roosevelt, and Anne Wilson, a war correspondent. Tom is sent on several fact-finding missions around the world and along the way he meets with such greats as MacArthur, Chennualt, Churchill, and Stalin. Tom's dialogues with Roosevelt and the reasoning behind some of the decisions made at the highest levels are fascinating and probably close to reality. Anne, the consummate reporter, finds ways to be near the action in North Africa and Europe and becomes a highly respected correspondent for the truthful descriptions of the action and the men on the front lines.    Anne, Louise, and Tom spend the war traveling and when their paths cross, the consequences are sometimes poignant and not always predictable.   This a great book for a rainy Saturday night. I found it engaging enough to read in one sitting. The story is interesting and the characters seem very real. Mr. Libbey has his facts right and the reader will learn some interesting history about great historical figures and the political considerations behind some of the most important decisions about the conduct of the war.	2001-04-13
US	52090990	RPI7CJ78LS4DF	0809093251	478948214	The Third Reich: A New History	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A tough nut to crack, but lots of meat inside	How is a modern industrial, Christian nation seduced and led down the path of evil? Germany with past dreams of glory and empire was humiliated by the terms of the Treaty of Versailles at the end of WWI . The country was looted for war reparations and occupied. Then comes the world depression and money is not worth the paper it is printed on, people are starving and work is hard to find. Enter a smooth talker with promises to restore Germany to her previous glory. Play on the peoples fears and past hatreds and suspicions.  Stabilize the economy and provide jobs by building an arms juggernaut then buy the military by providing them with men and new weapons. Establish a new police force (Gestapo) and new military (SS) that are not part of the mainstream government. Kill or imprison those that don't agree with National Socialists policies or leaders. The people are now working, there is now food, the country is becoming stronger than ever before and the people believe they are saved and a new destiny is in store for Germany. But alas, the Germans have painted themselves into a corner and are too afraid to do anything but go along and ignore the whisperings of dark and evil deeds. This book looks at the rise of Nazism from the end of WWI, through Weimer Republic, the great depression, the gaining of power by Hitler and his cronies, and their disastrous plunging of the world into WWII that cost millions of people their lives and almost totally destroyed Germany and devastated much of Europe and the Soviet Union. (Personally, I think that Stalin topped Hitler as despot of the century.) This book is a bit heavy on the academic side and I found I could only digest it in small pieces and I would not recommend it to a casual reader. But for all that, it is a pretty good one volume history of Nazi Germany and should satisfy those with a curiosity on the subject.	2001-02-07
US	52090990	R18GFJ8SJDQ3AE	0786866632	96152957	Almost History: Close Calls, Plan B's, and Twists of Fate in America's Past	Books	4	13	13	N	N	An amaizing collection of close calls and plan B's	This book, whose author works for the national archives, is an amusing collection of &quot;Close Calls, Plan B's and Twists of Fate in America's past.&quot;  Some of the items are merely drafts for press releases if D-day, Apollo 11, etc, failed disastrously. More fascinating were plans for actions not taken - Robert McNamara's meeting with Kennedy on the pre-invasion bombing of Cuba and the prosecution memorandum on indicting Nixon after his resignation.  Others are little known items like Alexander Graham Bell's attempt to locate the bullet in Garfield with an induction coil that failed because the dying President was on a (then) newfangled metal spring mattress and Bell didn't know it. The great majority are amusing, some are poignant (Colonel Travis' appeal for reinforcements at the Alamo - although in the words of Chief Hendrick &quot;if they are to fight, they are to few, if they are to die, they are too many&quot;) and H.L. Mencken's dryly humorous falsified history of the bathtub (that got out of hand when too many readers treated it as fact) is a real hoot!	2000-12-01
US	52090990	R156Y9MZAKWWVK	0809089068	518265730	Strange Victory: Hitler's Conquest of France	Books	4	8	13	N	N	A detailed account of how France blew it in WWII	Before the start of WWII, France outclassed the Germans militarily with a larger Army, a better Air Force, bigger and better tanks, and the Maginot Line. The French also had spies telling them the Germans were preparing to attack them. So how did Germany beat them so easily in a few weeks? If you want to know what happened, read this book.<br />The French soldier in WWI was as good as any soldier in the world. The same can be said of WWII. But, they had a lack of leadership. The various branches of the services did not communicate of coordinate. This lack of leadership and coordination was a recipe for disaster!<br />This book includes interesting tables and excellent statistics as well as a comprehensive bibliography. Also included are maps and fine descriptions of major engagements.	2000-12-01
US	52090990	R2XGS8YQ0V3ZK3	0812931149	463065655	The Civil War Chronicle: The Only Day-by-Day Portrait of America's Tragic Conflict as Told by Soldiers, Journalists, Politicians, Farmers, Nurses, Slaves, and Other Eyewitnesses	Books	3	14	21	N	N	Day by day comtemporary flavor of the Civil War	I have a few problems with his book, which is a collection of old photographs and sketches and letters, reports and other original source material organized in a day-by-day format and with a short commentary for putting each of the original sources in context. The photographs sketches are very nice and contain some that I hadn't seen before (and some old favorites such as the landscape after Hood blew up his ammunition train when abandoning Atlanta). The source material is good when it deals with the politics and the home front, nicely including Baltimore riots, New York draft riots, currency legislation and Grant's Jew order, banning them from his theater of operations.  The lacking part to the book is its treatment of military operations.  Major battles are reduced to operations reports or letters home about 2/3 of a page long, there are no maps and the day-by-day format eliminates continuity. One is merely left with account after account of regiments being crushed and (in the commentary) casualty figures without any understanding of why operations occurred where and when they did.  Worse, the commentary is full of errors. E.P. Alexander is identified as &quot;Lee's chief of artillery&quot;. Lincoln made T.S.C. Lowe chief of army aeronautics after meeting him on June 11, 1963 after which he resigned in May 1963. The Union ironclad Carondelet is identified as wooden-hulled.  The Confederate ram Albemarle is said to have &quot;survived the mission, but it was so badly damaged that repairs could not be completed before war's end,&quot; on page 404, but then on page 467, we read of the Union raid that destroyed it.<br />Get this book if you want some contemporary flavor to add while you are reading a good general history of the civil war.	2000-12-01
US	52090990	R1SGR8DNZKDVAE	0374186278	318030765	Lifting the Fog of War	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A look at the Military use of Information technology	With the fall of the Soviet Union, American military forces are currently being reduced in size and misused, and the mission of our military is in confusion. How can we overcome this decline?<br />Throughout history, confusion on the battlefield has always been a problem. As history has progressed, weapons and tactics have become more sophisticated and deadly, and confusion is still a major problem. The next Revolution in Military Affairs (RMA) can lift the fog of battlefield confusion and make our military stronger than ever with the limited resources we have. This new RMA is Information Technology. The U.S. has the capability to finally remove the confusion of war by employing multiple sensors and computers to give battlefield commanders, as well as individual soldiers, a clear real-time picture of what the enemy is doing.<br />Admiral Turner states a clear case as to how to utilize this new information technology to our advantage. In the Gulf War, we saw a glimpse of what Information Technology can do, but we have a long way to go to fully take advantage of the technology available as well as emerging technologies.<br />A fascinating read and I highly recommend this book for our government and military leaders. We have a golden opportunity to &quot;Lift the Fog of War&quot; and keep our military &quot;Second to None&quot;.	2000-12-01
US	52090990	R3RK6KOEIBBVZT	0810833107	819383837	The Hollywood Propaganda of World War II	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fascinating stuff for movie and history buffs	I enjoyed this book immensely. Did you grow up watching such great classics as &quot;Sergeant York&quot;, &quot;A Yank in the RAF&quot;,  &quot;Sahara&quot;, &quot;Flying Tigers&quot;, &quot;Wake Island&quot;,  &quot;Gung Ho&quot;, and &quot;Air Force&quot;. These are but a few of the  great movies made during WWII to bolster American morale. There were also  some real stinkers. I never cared much for &quot;Mrs. Miniver&quot;,  &quot;Dragon Seed&quot;, &quot;Days of Glory&quot;, and several others that  were just plain bad of silly. This book explains the reason behind these  films and some of the history of their making. The Office of War  Information (OWI) was founded by the government to monitor the content of  the war films fed to the American Public and set standards to follow and  frameworks to work within. There is some very interesting stuff here. Why  was Italy treated as a nonbelligerent? Why were Austria, Finland, Bulgaria,  Hungary, and Rumania never mentioned? Why was there no distinction of  Russian ethnic groups (they were all just simply Russians)? Why were  Japanese depicted as barely more than monkeys and the Germans as stupid  baffoons, but no racial slurs? This book gives great insight about  Hollywood, the movies, and WWII.	2000-08-24
US	52090990	R3SDZDG19K6VVZ	0395516064	765288205	Operation Rollback: America's Secret War Behind the Iron Curtain	Books	4	13	16	N	N	The real Story of early Covert Operations	In January 1946, George F. Kennon, a career diplomat trained in Soviet Affairs, became the ambassador to the U.S.S.R. when Averell Harriman returned to the United States. Kennon wrote many dispatches about the  turmoil within the Soviet Union, but they were largely ignored. When asked  to write an &quot;Interpretive Analysis&quot; of Soviet statements  regarding international institutions, Kennon let loose with both barrels.  This paper became the basis for future American policies towards the Soviet  Union.<br />This is a fine account of the people and early (if inept) efforts  by the U.S. to subvert the Soviet control of Eastern Europe just after  WWII. The book traces the political background and the maneuvering of the  World Powers and is instructive as to the current environments in Albania,  Hungary, Romania, Poland, and the emerging Balkan States.<br />The early  efforts of the OPC (Office of Policy Coordination), that were mostly  thwarted by the infamous spy Kim Philby (British Liaison Officer), are  covered in some depth. The OPC was later absorbed by the CIA. Also  discussed are the secret ways the OPC was financed and its existence kept  hidden from the American public. I had never heard of the OPC, but these  guys were responsible for covert operations. They tried to stir up trouble  within the Soviet sphere of influence, including the Soviet Union itself.  They trained operators recruited from Eastern European Refugees, arranged  and carried out parachute drops of agents behind the Iron Curtain, smuggled  weapons, and dispersed money to agents and sympathizers. They also carried  out propaganda campaigns and started Radio Free Europe.<br />It is interesting  that the Soviets had so penetrated the political parties and intelligence  agencies of the U.S. and Great Britain long before World War II started.  What is also fascinating is that we knew about much of their spying efforts  and for a long time chose to ignore them. There were a lot of sympathizers  in the U.S. that were rooting for the socialist experiment.<br />This is a  fine book for students of Political Science, Post WWII History, and fans of  the history of covert operations. I have read many novels and seen many  movies about secret operations, but they pale compared to the real stuff!	2000-07-25
US	52090990	R26IGP8Q68FPJ2	0805059725	116140556	The Year of Jubilo: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Fiction at its best. Hard to put down.	A book that once opened is hard to put down. An engaging read from the first page to the last. Filled with some of the most interesting and off-the-wall characters you will ever meet. Gives a vivid portrait of the  time just after the Civil War, and of the place, a small town in the South,  ravaged by war. Gawain Harper, a literature teacher at a girl's school in  Cumberland Mississippi, is shamed by his lady love, Morgan Rhea, into  joining the Confederate Army. He survives the war and on his way home in  June 1865, he meets Captain Henry Stribling, an unusual man of many talents  and past professions. When they reach Gawain's home, things have changed  considerably and much of the town has been destroyed. The town is now  occupied by Union Troops commanded by a tired Lt. Colonel Burduck with many  problems, assisted by his no-nonsense Provost, Captain von Arnim. They are  trying to keep the peace and help restore order. Morgan has written of  Gawain as long dead and has trouble accepting his return. Her home has been  burned and she now lives with a demented cousin along with her once  powerful father, Judge Rhea, and her younger brother. While most of the  people of Cumberland are struggling to return to normalcy, there is one  evil man, the self appointed Captain Soloman Gault, leader of raiders,  misfits, and murderers during the war, determined to stir things up and  cause as much trouble as possible. Unfortunately, he has many willing  accomplices. Gawain's newfound friend Henry Stribling has a talent for  sticking a finger in a hornet's nest and stirring things around until  something happens. Now that the stage is set, to say anything more would  spoil the fun. Get a copy of this book and be prepared to not do anything  but read for several hours.	2000-06-09
US	52090990	R2Q05RAUOOPEYQ	0380978490	389271937	Duty: A Father, His Son, And The Man Who Won The War	Books	5	22	23	N	N	An honorable tribute to the Veterans of WWII	I really enjoyed reading this book. It is a book to be read by everyone whose Parents or Grandparents were of the World War II Generation. This is an honest, insightful, and honorable tribute to the hero Paul Tibbets of  the Enola Gay, and to Major Time Greene of the 91st Infantry Division, one  of the many unsung heroes that put it all on the line to save the free  world. One comes away with a knowledge of how our greatest generation  viewed the world and their moral character. One also gets a wake up call as  to their opinion of the current generation.<br />If you have recently laid to  rest a Parent of Grandparent from the WWII era, as I have, this book will  help you cherish their memory even more.	2000-06-07
US	52090990	R20I7ZOTRKSZU7	1557505861	18719325	Captain Kilburnie	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Filled with good characters and sharp actions	This book is similar in style to the great books of Captain Frederick Marryat. The writing is simple in style and straight forward. The main character starts low and ends high. Not one of the greatest of this genre  that I have read, but I loved this book. Angus Kilburnie is a young  Scotsman that is caught with the daughter of an Irish lord and banished. He  decides to make his life at sea as did his Grandfather. With the aid of his  naval veteran Uncle, he is assigned to a \\"good ship\\" and does  well. He is promoted from the ranks to midshipman and through good service  to lieutenant. As lieutenant on a new ship, he has a foul captain and is  pawned off by the bad captain to serve as First Lieutenant on a transport (a  converted 74). He goes on to do great deeds on this ship and beyond. To  disclose more would spoil the fun. Filled with good characters and sharp  actions. If you love books about the British Royal Navy during the  Napoleonic Wars, this one is not to be missed. I anxiously await the  sequel. Be sure to check out the excellent WWII Destroyer books by Adm.  Mack. Especially don't miss \\"South to Java\\", one of the greatest  works of fiction I have ever read in any category!	2000-04-07
US	52090990	RKSQ632SL3U9D	0872167135	800494534	Touch and Go	Books	4	7	7	N	N	As good as O'Brien, Pope, or Kent. Not to be missed!	This is the 3rd book in the Richard Delancy series by Parkinson. I had heard of these books for several years but until recently was not able to obtain one. Most of the action takes place in the Mediterranean Sea in 1799. Delancy, Captain of the sloop HMS Merlin, is sent on several escort  missions, and encounters Lord Cochrane and his ship the sloop Speedy.  Cochrane tries to enlist his aid in a little ambush of French sloops  raiding British commerce...Not as epic in proportion to other  books of this genre, but by all means a most excellent read.	2000-03-30
US	52090990	R2I7QTVBH5UU7S	0935526560	25963516	The King's Own (Classics of Naval Fiction)	Books	4	34	35	N	N	An engrossing tale with an extiting surprise ending	Marryat had a way with words (I found myself constantly looking them up in the dictionary). This is an engrossing tale of a young lad who's Father is hanged after the mutiny at Nore (where his mother also dies after the  hanging). He is then adopted by the Navy and spends his life at sea. From  ship's boy, to midshipman, to lieutenant, the tale encompasses engagements  at sea with smugglers, pirates, and the French. The lad was also the  grandson of an admiral, unbeknownst to him, and the heir to a vast estate.  Thus part of the tale revolves around the inheritors of his estate, who  believe him dead. Although this book is a great read, Marryat at times  wanders far a field. And, at times departs completely from the story on  some other tack. The ending of the book is exciting and surprising, and for  Marryat, different from his other works. He apparently took a lot of flack  from his readers at the time. There are some great characters introduced in  the book, in particular some of the crew of the frigate that the hero  (Willy Seymore) spends several years on (voyaging to the West and East  Indies). The surgeon reminds me much of the good doctor in O'Brien's books.  Many a good character passed before my eyes, but they were mere shadows of  what could have been literary legends. In some respects, this book is  disappointing; it could have been so much more. But all told mate, it is  still a great read.	2000-03-30
US	52090990	R1PAJQVGX4TRRX	0805061398	147393276	Percival Keene (Heart of Oak Sea Classics Series)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A lot of fun with great characters.	This book was a lot of fun. There are a few great characters besides Percival. Captain Delmar, heir to a title and a large estate, is the father of illegitimate Percival and never acknowledges him as his son. He does  take Percival on as a midshipman and guides his career. My favorite  character is the young coxswain, Bob Cross. He takes care of our hero,  protecting and advising him, and teaching him the ways of the navy. Our  hero voyages on and goes through some adventures, fights some good battles,  is captured by pirates, and saves the life of his future love. The book  ends with a violent storm off the French coast and a shipwreck that is  described in great detail. The first part of the book is devoted to  Percival's Mother and his early childhood. Young Percival is a scamp, a  rogue, and a prankster. He is not a particularly pleasant young man. His  antics are funny and I felt sorry for his first schoolmaster. All of  Marryat's books have a similar theme. A young man of noble birth (usually  unknown to him) goes to sea, does good, wins promotion, meets his love,  then return home to title, wealth, and fame. But Marryat's books are all a  lot of fun and worth reading. They were written by a Royal Navy Captain  that served in the Napoleonic War.	2000-03-30
US	52090990	R61KXNBOIHRE2	0809073978	849110166	Ungentlemanly Acts: The Army's Notorious Incest Trial	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A page turner about frontier life and the Army legal system	This is a fascinating account of the court marshal of Army Captain Andrew J. Geddes for 'Conduct Unbecoming and Officer'. He accused another officer, Lieutenant Louis H. Orleman, of incest with his daughter Lillie. Orleman  preempted the charges of Geddes by filing his own complaint that Geddes  tried to seduce and abduct his daughter. The act of incest was so  unspeakable at the time (1879), the Army chose to court marshal Geddes  instead Orleman for 'Conduct Unbecoming' with specifications 'not fit to be  specified'. The Army was out to get Geddes (for other improprieties) and  the trial was a sham with Geddes found guilty and cashiered from the Army.  He was reinstated due to the diligence of Inspector General Dunn, but  higher powers, General Sherman in particular, wanted Geddes out of the Army  as unfit. Geddes was tried a few years later on trumped up charges of being  drunk on duty and again cashiered.<br />The main events of this book took  place at Fort Stockton in Western Texas. The author masterfully paints a  picture of the bleak frontier and the problems inherent with isolated  outposts: drunkenness, adultery, seduction, gossip, and petty feuds that  blossomed into hatred. The book also contains a wealth of interesting  information about the Army legal system, the moral mindset of the time,  Army units and personnel, literature of the time, and many other facts and  observations. I read this book cover-to-cover and highly recommend it to  any fan of American History.	2000-02-17
US	52090990	R2R4IR14QGUERA	0395659949	278691326	Ulysses S. Grant: Triumph Over Adversity, 1822-1865	Books	5	9	18	N	N	Grant the Man: Triumphs and Failures	This is an exceptional biography. The research that went intothis book and the comprehensive references included are mostimpressive. This is the story of the man, Ulysses S. Grant, not thelegend. In this work, Grant's greatest triumphs as well as his most dismal failures are exposed. I found his early life as a cadet at West Point and as a quartermaster officer in the Mexican-American War most interesting. After that war he was assigned as an infantry officer in California where he became depressed and fell to drink. He resigned from the service and was a failure at almost everything he tried, finally working as a store clerk for his father. When the Civil War started, Grant helped recruit volunteer regiments and train them. He had very little political pull and had to fight for his appointment as Colonel. He distinguished himself in the Western Campaigns and was promoted to Major General in the Regular Army. Because of his successes and the failures of other generals, he was appointed Lieutenant General of the Army. This caused all kinds of bitterness from rivals and political cronies. Grant then led the Union Armies into Virginia where he faced Lee.  What followed was a long and hard fought campaign. The battles of the Wilderness, Spotsylvania, Cold Harbor, and the Petersburg and Appomattox Campaigns finally brought the Army of Northern Virginia to surrender.  Through all the fighting, Grant never gave up and continually pressed forward. Some of Grant's hardest battles were with the bottle, the press, politicians and incompetent people under his command. Grant hated war, was sickened by the loss of life, and did everything in his power to bring the conflict to an end.	2000-01-31
US	52090990	R2OEUZ1RIHJDZW	0395985374	480129962	Secret War in Shanghai: An Untold Story of Espionage, Intrigue, and Treason in World War II	Books	4	21	21	N	N	A strugle for power by any means necessary.	If you are a scholar, serious student, or avid reader of World War II History, this book is for you. This book is exhaustively researched, meticulously crafted, and written with flowing style.<br />Prior to World War  II, Shanghai was a major trading hub in Asia. The city was populated by  Americans, British, Japanese, Italians, Nationalist and Communist Chinese,  French, Australians, Indians, Germans, Jewish Refugees, Russian Refugees,  and other minor national players. Add to the population rogues, spies,  soldiers-of-fortune, adventurers, Chinese gangsters, con men, thieves,  murders, and low lives of other callings. Mix all of these elements  together and start a major world war and the intrigues begin.<br />This is a  tale of treason, collaboration, bravery, propaganda, and maneuvering for  power, prestige, and money. Businesses wanted to continue operation and  ignore the consequences. Torture, murder, extortion, imprisonment, and  blackmail were tools of the day. Numerous intelligence organizations  competed against each other and all had to rely heavily on the Chinese for  information. One fact I found interesting was the Japanese distrust of the  Germans because they were racists. I find this ironic. Another interesting  fact was the Allies used 100,000 Japanese soldiers in and around Shanghai  at the end of the war to keep order. The book is filled with excerpts from  intelligence reports, newspaper articles, and the eventual demise of some  of the more colorful characters. There is also a section of fascinating  pictures.<br />After the war, Shanghai made an attempt to recover some of her  previous glory, but much of her business moved on to Hong Kong and  Singapore. The final blow was the defeat of the Nationalist forces by the  Communists in 1949. The city has never been the same since.	1999-12-20
US	52090990	RA3WDWVJ78UP1	0553578774	302391568	Night Dogs	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of the best Cop books I have read!	Great characters, gritty action, and the low life of the streets. Hanson, an ex-special forces Vietnam veteran is a cop on the streets in Portland Oregon in the mid 70s. He has an attitude problem, especially with his  superiors, and has to deal with enemies within and without the PD. But  Hanson also has a sense of justice and he is not really a bad guy. Go along  for the ride.	1999-11-09
US	52090990	R3FNTDH5SRGHAK	1578590892	174098344	Videohound's War Movies: Classic Conflicts on Film (Videohound Guides)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Want an excellent war movie reference guide: Here it is!	This is supposed to be a movie guide, but when I started looking through it I was so fascinated that I read it cover-to-cover, just like a novel. But I have always been a great fan of war movies. This is an outstanding  reference, the only one of its kind I have seen. I hope that the author  will give us Volume II, which will include many other great movies not  included. This book is comprehensive and LARGE, and I realize it would be  difficult to put together a single source covering all the movies of this  genre and also include the wealth of information on each move as included  here. This book contains far more information than your usual movie guide.  The book includes pictures, quotes, cast, story lines, historical  background, and special salutes to outstanding actors and directors. The  indices in the back are given by several categories, which make finding  things fast and easy. Thanks to this book, I learned there are a few gems  out there that I have missed! The book also gives recognition to  outstanding overlooked films such as &quot;When Trumpets Fade&quot; and  &quot;The Boys in Company C&quot;, to name a few. If you want an excellent  war movie reference guide: here it is! The author rates movies from one to  four bones. I give it a five. Woof! Woof!	1999-11-03
US	52090990	R3IM1P7TARGWBH	0345421450	46634992	Heroes Die	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Kicks butt and takes few prisoners!	A refreshing change of pace. In the future, man is entertained living the adventures of highly skilled actors that are transported to another world.  These actors are in real life or death situations. The most popular actor  of them all, Caine by name, is having problems with the management of the  entertainment company that owns his contract, his estranged wife (another  actor), and very tough going in his adventure. Relax and enjoy the ride.	1999-10-28
US	52090990	R1ZMG3QV4KCCGK	078600648X	757803430	The Fox And The Flag	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Learn about ship construction and sailing, not much action.	I thought this an informative book for those interested in the rigging, sailing, and construction of ships during the Revolutionary War. The characters are well founded and the historical feel is good, but there was  not much in the way of action. The whole book leads up to a court marshal  at the end, but it was very short. Still well worth reading and I will  certainly read the rest of the books in the series.	1999-09-21
US	52090990	R1U5KUUUVBVZMB	0935526579	520984698	Porto Bello Gold (Classics of Naval Fiction)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A great prequel	Avast mates! Never has a finer tale of the sea to be had. Meet Long John, Captain Flint, Ben Gunn, and some of the other scurvy crew from 'Treasure Island'. Learn where the treasure came from. Fights at sea and ashore  aplenty.	1999-07-14
US	52090990	R2LC77T8FAKP9P	1564741648	757043102	All the Proud Ships: A Novel of the American Revolution	Books	5	2	2	N	N	As good a sea tale as any I have read	This book is about the adventures of the early American Navy in the Revolutionary War. Great characters, and filled with action, I think it is as good as anything by, O'Brien, Marryat, Woodman, Lambdin, Kent, Pope,  etc... I found it by accident, but with any justice, it will become a best  seller.	1999-05-10
US	52090990	R6P561UIK4EZZ	0671878654	84595245	An Oblique Approach (Belisarius)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great characters, lots of fun. Where is the rest of it?	Interesting characters, great battles, and lots of potential. But, if this is the whole story, I feel cheated. There is nothing at the end of the book to indicate a sequel to finish the great start.	1998-12-01
US	52090990	RLQVMUDIJK8A2	0899668437	329455826	The Forgotten Soldier	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Even with innacuracies, reads like great fiction!	One of the best books I have ever read, in any catagory. It read like great fiction (of which it contained some). Since the book was written by a young private, I can forgive a few innacuracies. Should be read by every  soldier or potential soldier planning to serve in a combat unit.	1998-11-20
US	52090990	R3RGDM84YILGPB	0670870951	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege, 1942-1943	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fascinating stuff for military history buffs.	A glowing testament to the monumental stupidity, greed, vanity, and brutality of man. Also includes numerous interesting rare photographs and plenty of maps to follow the action.	1998-11-20
US	52090990	R2UEDR10W01SQF	0553575376	482694144	Excession	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Interesting but tedious.	This book had many interesting concepts but there was too much not relevant to the story and it is somewhat confusing trying to keep all the players in their proper place. It would have been a much better book if it  were a few hundred pages shorter.	1998-11-20
US	52090990	R3N2906S4VBQ74	0380788284	519979111	Semper Mars: Book One of the Heritage Trilogy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great fun like all his other books!	Pay no attention to the sour grapes from the Japanese and Belguim reviews.  The Eurpoeans and Japanese didn't shine in this book. If you look inside at  the publishing information, you will note that the book is by William H.  Keith Jr. of the 5th Foreigh Legion and Warstrider series. Why he chose to  publish under another name is a mystery to me because I gobbled up all his  other books. This book has lots of action and credible technological  settings, great characters (including the Japanese), and is a great read. I  look forward to the next installment.	1998-08-21
US	52090990	R10NSQUGY9Z8CK	0345391896	920310564	Duty Bound	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lots of action &amp; good characters.	The mismatched FBI agents Sutton and Tanner (from Solemn Duty, a good read) are back in another enjoyable adventure. Stolen money, drug lords, the FBI and independent contractors all head for a big crash. All of Scott's books are good reads!	1998-07-15
US	52090990	R15WVNX7E3L788	0446605514	489265227	The Still	Books	1	10	18	N	N	There are so many better books to read	Written in first person (hard to do). The main character is pathetic (who cares?). What's with all the homosexual garbage? I could care less about young men spanking each other. This book was a waste of time and Feintuch is permanently off my list. I have read thousands of books and this was one of the worst. When I finally finished it, much to my dismay, it was not the end and more is to follow. Not for me! This book gives fantasy a black eye.	1998-06-04
