US	52105292	R2DJKR0Q04IE6B	0811201880	942112163	Nausea (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Brace yourself for Existentialism 101	Existentialism is a horribly broad term that has lumped together quite a motley collection of ideas.  From Dostoyevsky and Kierkegaard's God-infused to Nietzsche's Godless scrutiny of individual struggle, existentialism remains a vague caption for all thoughts concerned with man's experience, alone and in a mass.  <br />So what did Jean-Paul Sartre, once described as the most brilliant Frenchman of the twentieth century, have to offer to modern inquisitors?  In Nausea, his first major work, Sartre promulgates his own creeds through the listless eyes of a writer Antoine Roquentin.  Like the fictional intellectuals before him, Roquentin finds himself paused and later haunted by the great question of existence.  Unable to continue in his historic research on Marquis de Rollebon, Roquentin is seized by a nausea of the mind that ponders the point of existence.  In the famous chestnut tree scene, Roquentin confronts the nausea by feeling the strangle on man by the two moieties of life: existence and essence.  Sartre explains that essence includes all the physical properties and in my opinion those understood and replicable by science.  Existence on the other hand, is purely a product of the cognitive, therefore one either knows he exists or he doesn't.  Roquentin experiences the acute prick of his existence and thinks himself freed from the common lot because of his acknowledgement.  But trapped in the same pessimistic realm of Nietzsche, Roquentin finds the world a place of terrible voids and he himself unable to take advantage of the freedom of choices.  Alone and without a purpose, Roquentin nonetheless chooses an optimistic enough ending by moving to Paris to pursue fiction writing.  <br />Unlike other philosophers, Sartre was also a marvelous dramatist and novelist whose craft could be appreciated for its literary value alone.  And so lurking behind Roquentin's stream-of-conscious narrative, his dry humor, and caricature-like surroundings is Sartre's contribution which leads straight to the core of existentialism's concern with the individual struggle against isolation in a hostile world.	2002-01-14
US	52105292	R1UGREGNCL7FSS	067172262X	43217624	Hamlet	Books	5	2	3	N	N	To read or not to read shouldn't be the question	Great literature has often been compared to a mirror that reflects man's inner development.  Described as the first true modern work, Hamlet is full of the uncertainty and skepticism modern readers are only too familiar with.  Unlike other tragic Shakespearean heroes such as Macbeth and Othello, Hamlet is rational before he is valiant.  With most of his strife and turmoil being metaphysical rather than physical, Hamlet is at his best an obsessive spectator of the \\"weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable\\" state of human existence.  As Harold Bloom puts it, Hamlet is a hero too grandiose for his own play.  And indeed, savoring Hamlet's excessive reasoning in retrospection, the reader is able to see how despite his many emotional outbursts, Hamlet gropes beyond the goal of revenge because he is ultimately concerned with the nature and source of evil rather than the means to combat it.  Can we then say Hamlet the play is but a decorative device for Hamlet the hero?  Why not, Shakespeare needed actions to let his own dark vision of the human psyche unfold through Hamlet, who develops an extremely pessimistic outlook on humanity that has endured over time.   By letting the reader discover for himself the same transience prevalent in everything and everyone else, Hamlet shows the daunting immortality of thoughts.  Read it for the \\"to be or not to be\\" speech if nothing else.	2001-12-09
US	52105292	R2BIJRCW2SKP0S	0684830426	193175702	The Great Gatsby (Scribner Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Find your own green light beyond the foul dust	The Roaring Twenties, also known as the Jazz Age, was a very American response to World War I.  Until 1917, America had kept her distance from the commotion on the European continent, and it was indeed the Great War that pushed America out of her hesitant isolation and onto the world scene.  The tremendous moral confusion and psychological disillusionment thus unleashed by America's involvement in the gruesome war of attrition hailed a new generation of artists.  F. Scott Fitzgerald, one of the most prominent writers to have emerged from this generation of artists, framed his generation's struggle in The Great Gatsby.  By placing his protagonist in the midst of Long Island, NY's dazzling elite and glamorous parties, Fitzgerald presents to us a son of the Jazz Age whose post-WWI pursuit of the \\"short-winded elations of men\\" is so characteristic of that era.  But Gatsby, a decorated hero from the indecisive battlefields of WWI and also a fabulously rich man, is not a character whom Fitzgerald intends for the readers to admire.  Instead, Fitzgerald hints that there is a considerable distance between the man that Gatsby is and the man he is capable of being.  Thus it appears only ironic that Fitzgerald should choose to title his novel The GREAT Gatsby.  But in the wake of America's political readjustment on the world scene and internal social shift, Gatsby comes to symbolize an age of great aspirations that ended in hollow grandeur.  And as a protagonist who successfully embodies \\"an unbroken series of successful gestures\\", Gatsby captures Fitzgerald's own great vision of a complacent American society, numbed by shallow pleasures, and ultimately betrayed by the very dream of greatness his generation hoped to achieve.<br />Intrigued yet? Read the novel and find that green light beyond the foul dust of all that's tangible.  Welcome to the world of Jay Gatsby.	2001-12-09
US	52105292	R1WOIJ9LTQOB6D	0679409904	751067545	Nostromo (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Another one of Conrad's &quot;un-reconcilable&quot; masterpiece	Revolution is a fertile ground for nascent ideologies, and neology is perhaps the richest algar on which emerging heroes feed upon.  Costaguena is a territory existing only in the unparalleled imagination of Conrad, whose mind was perpetually stimulated by an abstract, unknown, and merely projected world. Nostromo is his instrument of oscillation; ultimately a pendulum caught in the momentum of change, he falls into the precipice that separates the glory of selfhood and the danger of vanity. <br />From the beginning, Conrad sheds equally heavy recognition on a string of characters.  Charles Gould an European capitalist trapped in his father's tragic political enmeshment, Decoud an uprooted native who dies proving his credential, and Antonio Avellanos an audacious aristocrat who carries the torch of her generation are have the protagonist make-up.  But following the Greek formula, Nostromo is the true hero who fumbles into falsity because of his one défaut: hubris.  The enormous vanity develops into his temptress, and in a way, Nostromo makes the conscious choice to let his incorruptible pride corrupts his morale. <br />The fatality of Nostromo, very much like many of Conrad's protagonists, marks the inability of men, in the utmost bleakness of mental solitude, to reconcile to the goodness of nature.	2000-10-22
US	52105292	R1P2ITXGRZQ1F4	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Swiftly compelling--Hemingway at his best	Therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; It tolls for thee-exactly what was Donne conveying to us? The fortuitous nature of  existence, or the unbiased treatment of fate, or the luring equivocation of  individuality?  In the pitifully short three days, no, better be accurate,  two and a half days during a crucial advance for the republic forces in  Spain, Hemingway leads us toward the bullpen, behind which hid a chimera  that is to hunt us all our lives with the echo of Donne's famed line.   <br />Hemingway draws every little details together as a pounding fist-beating  recursive chimes into the readers' ears. And with the slower, more  passionate journey into Jordan's memory and future in a way, we become  enthralled as well to the question of choice. How will he choose? Jordan, a  formal Spanish professor in the University of Montana, chooses to foresake  the capitalist luxury of America and pursues the life as a republic  dynamiter in Spain. <br />There is no question of individuality, only a  question of choice, a choice between masses and not identities.  All this  remains intact until Robert's own vision is no longer able to see between  simple black and white in the Spanish mountains where he prepares to blow  up a bridge during a republic offensive. His comrades are not all  communists, nor are his enemies all fascists; these men die not for an  ideal, but for an idea. And as he grows to love the rough Spaniards around  him: shrewd yet cowardly Pablo, thoughtful hunter Ansemlo, strong and  foreseeing Pilar, and most of all, a young woman ravaged many times by  fascist soldiers, Jordan starts to doubt the path he chooses. And between  life and death, ideal and reality, he waivers.<br />Pablo is a sharp thread  that seams between characters and draws Jordan on with questions; he  appears cowardly despite his heroic records as a guerilla leader, and his  own dawdling conviction towards the idea of republic pricks Jordan's own  sense of duty. Especially with more and more emotional involvement  (dependency) on Maria's love, Jordan is wondering whether enough killing is  enough killing for a vague concept. Pablo's seemingly growing discontent,  as a part of a mass, is complemented by his woman Pilar's undying strength.  She reads palms and smells death, and it is through her strong faith in the  union of freedom seekers that the guerrilla group stays together. But  exactly \\"for whom\\" the bell tolls? For the Spaniards who shed blood among  themselves with visible strings from Moscow? Yes, warfare befalls all, no  one is missed by the silent blow although some can smell its scent and  others shun its path. A dangerous sadness identifies Pablo while an  optimistic cheerfulness characterizes Pilar, why are they essentially the  same \\"lot\\" then? Because Hemingway shows us, through the interaction of  specter of differences, a single vibration enlivens every frequency on the  scale. Robert Jordan is a mere node not knowing which direction to lean  towards, especially as he is starting to doubt the vibration. <br />America  hasn't had her share of good wars, but what happens in one war is reflected  in the next, or isn't it? If one strong man's mentality comes tumbling down  because the buttress isn't strong enough, why shouldn't the next one fumble  as well? It tolls for thee, and there are a million \\"thee\\" out there  blindly believing they are the only \\"thee\\". They hear the same ringing,  although each believes he is able to distinguish a unique frequency; and  they die, their deaths as mere statistics. Thus it is actually an oxymoron  Hemingway presents through Robert Jordan's developing anxieties; he feels  \\"tricked\\" into believing the impact he himself can make in the war, as a  part of a hovering mass, instead, he recovers pieces of individuality when  he is physically and emotionally removed from the same mass. So at the  beginning, he lays on one stretch of pine forest floor and hears this bell  chime callinghim to begin, he joins the guerilla band; at the end, he is  wounded and is left behind to lay on the same stretch of pine forest floor,  and he hears this bell chime calling him to end. The integration and  disintegration mark his journey from blindness to sight. <br />Two and a half  days, who ever lives out their entire existence in such a short period?  Jordan does, and he sees so far into the pattern of living that he does  regret the ultimate choice he makes, not as a soldier, or a leftist, but as  a man redeemed through the moral bath of contemplation.	2000-08-20
US	52105292	R2MDC8H9NXKZ84	0140188495	883874896	Under Western Eyes (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Spectacular study of the gray between anthithesis	It was a relief to find Conrad's Under Western Eyes somewhat less surreal  and more concise; yet the complexity and subtlety prove to be no less  daunting as the readers are lured into the very same maze in which the main  character Razumov finds himself trapped in. <br />As a time when &quot;men  were sacrificing their lives for ideas&quot;, 1911 was not meant for  moderates who wished to stay neutral between anarchy and hierachy.   Razumov, a steadfast philosphy student in St. Petersburg is involuntarily  enmeshed in a radical's political intrigue, and to put it in plain  &quot;matter-of-fact&quot; tone, he betrays the anarchist.  But the  brilliancy of Conrad is the way he makes this statement grow by exploring  the soft tissue of human interaction in between the hard mechanism of  change. Razumov has no choice as the system's teaching induces him to turn  in the &quot;criminal&quot; who is dismantling order in society.  After the  authorities dispatch Razumov to Geneva with a mission, he willingly accepts  without realizing he is actually losing his individuality instead of  regaining it as he once supposed.  To spy on the radical's sister and  mother does not lie coherent with his righteous character, yet Razumov's  rigid faith in czarist bureacracy and inability to choose for himself lead  to more lies. It is still truth however, that redeemds Razumov despite  fate's little surprises to keep his betrayal in the shadow. And not unlike  fellow St. Petersburg student Raskolnikov from Crime and Punishment,  Razumov finds salvation in the betrayed radical's sister's deep love for  him.  Also like Raskolnikov, Razumov is at last reconciled to his existence  through physical suffering.<br />Conrad was by no means denouncing the blossom  of revolution, he grazed at the thorns and showed us the many shades of  reformation.  No idealism remains pure in the real world; in this case,  Haldin's kind of pursuit fuses with political murder as his compatriots in  Geneva embrace a bureaucratic order. All this is coolly observed by  Conrad's Western eyes-an outsider to the struggle and the inner turmoil of  Russia to find a balance amongst the blinding clashes of change.	2000-08-15
US	52105292	RVH3AY5BSDV28	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Rare Light to Escape from the War	In some way, All Quiet on the Western Front lacks the spark and depth that establishes War and Peace as the ultimate combat novel. Yet when one scrutinizes the common features of warfare, it is not so difficult to  realize that war reflects so much darkness in humanity that there is  nothing extraordinary about it. In this sweeping tale set in WWI, the  author promulgates nothing bombastic as the narrator hastily jots down the  face of death he perceives in motion. The story is able to transcend  nationality and politics; Paul Baumer, a German soldier (who could very  well been an English one, a French one, a Russian one) fresh out of  highschool, sees himself in his enemies and vice versa. He enlists with a  vague conviction to serve and be glorified, and as his classmates and he  wake up to the dusty reality of war, the freshness of youth quickly  evaporates. No more bubbles of ideal, bubbles of anything as Paul finds all  that his formal life was based on shattered and dissolved in the trenches.  The brutality of war does not destroy Paul and his classmates essentially  although the undertone of the story becomes cloudier, but that is the mere  shadow of Paul's development as an individual--eroding away in the acidity  of confusion.<br />Even though he declares that one loses Selfhood in a war,  Paul does emerge with a less acute sense of nationhood. Indeed, he is  alone, on the Western Front, puzzled by the purpose of sacrifices made by  millions of youth--on both sides. Remarque does not employ melodious voices  and profound concepts to demean warfare on a grander, spiritual scale;  instead, the down-to-earth sentences, glide loutishly like a young man of  twenty into readers' understanding. Gawky Muller, flirtatious Leer,  clear-headed Albert, and weathered Kat stand out as faceless as possible,  what a mural they paint with their muddy cheeks and bold laughs, one feels  at once the connection to these lads, it's their commonality that evokes  and kindles.  The transition these men make from students, peasants,  postmen to \\"butchers\\" is so gradual and tender that so many harsh scenes  turn to overwhelming tear-jerkers. Tolstoy touched sympathy with his grand  focal point--high above what common men saw behind the bloody veil; well,  Remarque led us through that bloody veil, sparing no details. And their  pain and anguish are transmitted so simplistically that they produce such  thundering effect on the heart; after all, scars never need any  decorations, the rawness of cruelty and human weakness lay bare in the  trenches that overlook a western front that may never quiet. War is always  a difficult subject to fictionalize because it fastens extensive strings on  humanity in countless ways. Remarque plucks only one string and watches it  vibrate, the node is naive and plain, but it echoes in everyone's heart  because the flame of life burns in all of us. And this flame keeps Paul  groping in the deep trenches for an exit, but he himself has long vanished  in the narrow tunnel towards light. All his beliefs fuse into reality, his  facade into bestiality, and his morals into the emptiness of ignorance.  This is a very emotional work that keeps one pondering long afterwards,  long after the echoes of aeroplanes, bayonets, rifles, hand grenades die  away. We readers understand how crucial a role this warfare will forever  play in these soldiers' future. The specter of warfare will always be there  to haunt humanity; the beasts released during the war may never tire and  the men remain forever tattered by the period without morality and  understanding.  Such is the vicarious pain.	2000-07-15
US	52105292	R8JWFNJANWPTP	0192818376	449623847	Dead Souls: A Poem (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A treasure of ironies	Before moving onto Gogol's most famed piece, I had the chance to savour a taste of his folklore side through Taras Bulba. The Ukaranian native possesses what I understand to be the Russian soul, not something  restrained by political boundaries, but a sense of humour, a sense of  understanding, and a sense of wisdom unique only to the Russian people.  Dead Souls is the perfect example of such a combination. The story evolves  around up-start Chichikov's clandestine pursuit of wealth through the  purchase of dead souls which leads onto other intrigues more heinous on the  surface. As he arrives at one town after another, he dazzles the society  with his superb taste and exquisite character, yet behind his  &quot;wonderfully humble nod of the head&quot;, lies a corrupted soul that  is bringing out everyone's darkest ambitions. With hundreds of &quot;wise  phrases&quot;, this book is a true allegory--Gogol drags the readers on  with the dark humour, only to lead them to the feet of a supreme  realization.  The author also took special care to name his characters such  as their names stand for something specific in the Russian language.   Surely few expects to discover much as the chase for truth dashes through  episode after episode of innocent funnies, yet when you do get there, you  realize you have already garnered much on the way, the humour comes back as  the simplest truth. <br />The hiatus was of some problem, but a good edition  offers the chance to patch up the missing pieces at the end.  As some other  review mentioned, the ultimate irony is the fact that Chichikov is the true  dead soul, devoid of morality, blinded by greed, and chastised by the very  travesty of justice--a crippled system that is manipulated by dead souls  such as Chichikov. Indeed, this is a piece of literature that makes one  ponder long after the last page is turned.  There are just so many hidden  switches that trigger the senses and tantalizes one's security about our  world.  Gogol'svision still holds true for today, a highly materialized  world, maybe this classic will offer some seemingly antedeluvian advice on  our very modern problem of ambition. After all, there is a dead-soul dealer  in all of us, and Chichikov is far from the villian (as Gogol calls him  &quot;our hero&quot;).	2000-07-13
US	52105292	R3CJBBPS3IJ25H	0679745203	152918541	The English Patient	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Poetic and Hallow	Desipte Minghella's focus on the romance of the English patient, this book is not a mere tale of doomed love (presented as gorgeous as possible however on the big screen, thus leading most of us astray). Ondaatje  intended a lurid story of identities, so many different identities of  utterly uncrossable lives that come fusing into one rhapsody.  This tune is  so soulful and the rapport between the 4 main undertones is truly amazing.   Yes, in a way, these undertones lose their distinctions as they are weaved  in the burned patient's story in the deserted villa on the Italian front,  during WWII Nazi's retreat. <br />Count Almasy is the burned patient--faceless  and nameless, for whom the emotionally scarred nurse Hana stays behind. He  recalls details w/ such alacrity and recite senses w/ such keenness, the  young Canadian nurse immediately finds herself enamored with this  &quot;ghost&quot;. Hana herself lost her father in the war, what she holds  as protection against the acidity of warfare remains the English patient,  who remembers much yet refuses to accept any. Shortly after, joining them  is a maimed thief, Caravaggio, an enigma during the war working as a spy  for the allies.  He is in possession of one piece of clue to the English  patient's identity, and he is desperate enough for that identity b/c much  of his own remaining dignity and hope have long intertwined with the burned  man's past. Last of all, the supposedly strongest vibe in the blues tune  creeps warily into the villa--Kip, a Sikh sapper with Ondaatje's alienation  in the white man's world all over his skin.  <br />The romance between Kip and  Hana seems inevitable, but their youthful affection has none of the  realistic ownership overwhelmingly expressed between Almasy and his lover,  Katherine Clifton, a married woman that took his face away from him.  Ownership, more than anything else, keeps Almasy's desert romance alive,  the blinding flame of its passion and its ignorance during rapid  colonization. Almasy, a linguist and explorer, sees the world as one  preserved mural; in some way, he sees love the same way--as pristine as the  uncharted desert of North Africa.  Love may have long been conquered as  nomads roamed the desert, its devious curves remain charted and mapped and  grasped.  He seeks out the shortcuts and wakes his proud soul with a  possessive force. What dooms his love?  His sense of the world, or rather  his lack of it?  Love is multifaceted, and the forbidden territory is  divided, much like the &quot;civilized&quot; world. <br />Civilization has  instigated much progress and much enlightenment.  But to these 4 shattered  souls, humanity is nothing but enlightened by the tremendous darkness of  the human mind.  The mind that is so eager to conquer and to suppress and  to differentiate.  The primal alienation comes from Kip, and as he  befriends a man who may have compromised the lives of allied soldiers for a  simple promise, he himself fades away into the night with the woman he  knows he can never have.  Caravaggio's injury of the hands symbolize  humanity crippled by warfare, and as he even grows weary of morphine, as  much as Truth, he comes to see Almasy's decisions judgments made not for  any country, but overlooking all nationhood.  <br />Poet writer Michael  Ondaatje deserves all the recognition this book has brought him.  There has  rarely been such tender force behind a modern writer's pen-nonchalant on  the surface, but pounding at the core of truth.  And truly, seldom have I  been so moved and touched by plain words weaved together with naivety, yet  such rhythm! This is not a novel of anguish, or of anti-war  sentimentalities; it simply records lives, so many different lives existing  in parallel universes of humanity, looking over for intersections that  never come.	2000-06-27
US	52105292	R2FOQ9IAWKX88M	1853262501	359278790	The Rainbow (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	4	31	45	N	N	Probing for truth beyond the mist of lust	Sunshine is a substance of transparency, yet when it touches the soft mist and shines through the concrete droplets, the arc of color manifests and dazzles the human yes.  In many ways, this is the journey of man as the  essence of living is filtered through the mist of love.  D.H. Lawrence's  controversial Rainbow makes few reference to the natural phenomenon as  rainbow, yet through out the lines, readers feel the \\"unbearable lightness  of being\\" sipping through to cinch the yearning hearts.  Countless  twenty-century writers dedicated their finest works to capture this  evanescence, and surviving through scandals and suppression is this  ambitious piece. <br />One of the unique faces of The Rainbow is its treatment  of characters; instead of expanding from individuals, D.H. Lawrence  reverses focus and lets the plot drift along.  It's impossible to determine  which character is the true protagonist because individuality is simply  abashed in this banned work.  In place of emphasis on characters, Lawrence  traces a circuitous journey through three generations-alternating voices of  three generations of Brangwen women.  Despite the complexity of this novel  however, each of these three women are given their space to dictate the  path of their own rainbow.  The word \\"journey\\" itself is repeated  frequently enough, and the torch of change is constantly being passed  along.  The journey traces from the Polish widow to her Brangwen husband,  her daughter to another Brangwen, and eventually the \\"heiress\\" of Brangwen  memories-Ursula.  The mother-daughter loop itself is a symbolic journey as  the understanding of love is inherited. <br />As a novel focusing on the very  nature of relationships and their connection to love, to sex, and to God,  The Rainbow captures the pain and anguish of each woman as they come to  possess the fruit of union with a man.  And as the daughter gains voice  over the ailing mother, the readers come to see how much time leads the  mind towardssomething new.  All characters seek illumination of love, and  different from conventional romance novels, The Rainbow traces not the  journey of one person, but the journey of an understanding.  Anna Brangwen,  the daughter of Lydia Lensky, finds a lover with whom she develops \\"a  sensuality violent and extreme as death\\" (280), a relationship that ends in  great fecundity.  As her fresh and wishful perspective fades, her eldest  daughter, Ursula commands the pace as she comes to possession of passion.   Through her youthful flirtation with Anton Skrebensky, Ursula grows to be  an emotional teacher eager to share her passion, only finding herself shut  down by reality into \\"a hard, insentient thing\\" (445).  Her meager  knowledge of love leads her to a physical and emotional affair with  Skrebensky as both grope for the truth behind relationships.  But this  truth is too grand for both of them as they yield to the tempting nature of  passion, and let love pass by.  But does the journey stop there?<br />\\"The  primeval darkness falsified to a social mechanism\\" (499) is indeed the  chimera that propels all characters towards the light of human affections.   During a time of great changes, men and women cannot help but clang to one  thing that seems unscathed-this primordial sense of protection in the  bodies of opposite sex.  But this need fades so fast as they probe deeper  into the soul in search of the amorphous answer that leaves them sleepless.   Just as the sun penetrates through the seductive veil of mist, the  characters reach a point where physical relationships is a concrete  something that does not satisfy.  But while they reach in the darkness of  lust for the light of emotional union, all falter just as the beautiful  array of colors fade away.  The sunshine never fails to reach earth, but it  never fails to trick wild hearts into the trap of a surreal realm of  love-the paradise beyond the rainbow.	2000-06-14
US	52105292	R1V86HX0TIL0Y9	0394703308	461694546	And Quiet Flows The Don (A Vintage Giant, V-330)	Books	5	36	39	N	N	War and Peace's Soviet Counterpart	Hailed as the best war novel to emerge from the Soviet, Sholokhov's epic has indeed solidified its position in world literature as a must read for those interested in the art of war.  Yet, far more than a mere war novel,  And Quiet Flows the Don, just as War and Peace had done, masterfully  combines the men's martial vigor with the delicate sentimentalities that  question war.  The blend of peace fades into this gnawing passion in  soldiers' bones as they march off to fight under some cause, a cause that  has only become too hazy for name.  Dedicated to the Cossacks who have  resided by the Don for ages, Sholokhov follows a young Cossack's journey  into the unknown terror of war.  And Gregor Melekov's personal tragedy,  blends w/ an array of Cossack characters: swindlers in love, Red Guards  with a faith...the plot may appear too scattered at times, yet following  Tolstoy's grand tradition to capture a supreme idea through the chasms of  minute details, Sholokhov depicts the anguish of a people too wrapped up in  honor, unable to cope with the nascent order of New Russia, regretful about  allegiance to the Czar who ensured tensile peace, and ultimately lost to  themselves as to &quot;mistake each other for the enemies&quot;.  We are  taught that war does such to people, is peace to heal the wound then? I  have yet to conclude this epic w/ The Don Flows Home to the Sea, but the  glimpse of peace and yearning for tranquility have long glittered in the  eyes of Gregor and his brothers/comrades, exhausted by struggles.  A  wonderful folk style book that brings one closer to the true picture of  Cossack life--acquaint one w/ their lust, their yearning, their cowardice,  and their courage.	2000-06-06
US	52105292	R2DT3ITDQOYE3F	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Unfathomable Fathom	Known as Conrad's most enigmatic and haunting work, this 1902 psychological thriller continues to pluck strings deeply planted in the human heart.  Story of a young Englishman Marlow's adventure up the Congo  River, Conrad paints a surreal yet harshly concrete tale evolving around  the disturbances of the spirit.  Marlow narrates his encounter (mental and  physical) with the unfathomable Kurtz, a half-English, half-French ivory  trader in the heart of Dark Africa yet to be explored.   Long before Kurtz  even takes shape and dictates his own path, his life is sewn into the lush  landscape and told by despairing pioneers who worship the very  characteristics that drive Kurtz to madness-the ambition to crown Western  colonialism with the last uncharted puzzle of humanity.   His impenetrable  nature, more so than Congo it seems, dazzles and puzzles the natives as  well as the whites who attempt to gain a better sense of identity through  supremacism.  Kurtz's ability to exert control over men and rule  spiritually without physical manipulation is revealed as Marlow's own  troubled spirit fuses into Kurtz's whirlpool of obsession to conquer and  glorify brutality of another sort. Thus as Marlow ventures upstream towards  Kurtz's quarter, appalled and fascinated by Kurtz's ominous sense of  balance in a world of cannibals.  Again, men who come hoping to conquer and  penetrate, find not virgin soul ready to be sown with Western seeds, but  the ultimate unconquerable and impenetrable in their own frail heart too  shielded from the naked truth of life.  Here, in Congo, Kurtz loses sanity  as he is forced to stoop when he is conquered and penetrated by the  harshness of Africa and its beaming beastliness that also roars underneath  his pale skin.  Marlow, as the sole heir to Kurtz's memory as a \\"hero\\",  returns with a tale of desperation and of hate.  Desperation and hate not  of one person, but of one race/one world whose conscience is forever  scarred by what they cannot fathom-darkness within themselves.   <br />&quot;For me it crawled towards Kurtz-exclusively... deeper and deeper  into the heart of darkness.	2000-04-28
US	52105292	R2RD3SBA8BJ3R7	0486406563	229335329	The Sea Gull (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Elaborate and Realistic: crown of Chekov	Inspired by a real-life incident of the death of a sea gull, this is hailed as the best written play by Chekov, The Sea Gull tells a poignant love story centered on literaray nonentity Konstantin's tragic quest for a burgeoning actress Nina.  Swirling around the country estate are characters  who reflect Konstantin's pain and suffering in their own harshly realistic  ways.  In this famed play, Chekov introduces a brand new form of literature  as to emphasize characters other than plot.  Instead of placing characters  beneath a steady frame, Chekov lets his characters guide the subtle  movement of the sad tale of devastated dreams and hopes. The dying sea gull  symbolizes the emptiness of defeat and further stressing the beauty of  life.  The fullness of being simply alive comes beaming with power and  touches life.	2000-04-23
US	52105292	R3IYSTB2XM01VJ	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	23	28	N	N	An Unlikely Masterpiece: dazzles and puzzles	Kingsolver, after the successful Bean Trees, shifts gear to conquer a little piece of the unknown in this 1998 best seller, set in a Congo struggling for, then with its new identity.  Caught in the dramatic events  such as Kantaga's secession, mysterious death of Congo's first prime  minister, and CIA entanglement, is a disillusioned Georgia family,  tyrannized by a devout evangelical Baptist father against the backdrop of a  dazed Black Africa.  The first half of Poisonwood Bible dedicates itself to  description of a serene village called Kilanga, where Nathan Price rooted  his family, which remains superficially unchanged as the world around it  changes faces.  Despite the banality of fanatical preachers we have had in  this half of the century, Kingsolver approaches the racist, supremacist,  chauvinistic Father Price with an uneasy tenderness revealed in narration  by his pessimistic and neurotic wife Oreleanna as well as their four  daughters, who come to represent the different extremities that are to ail  and be ailed by Congo.  As Nathan becomes possessed with the religious  fervor that pushes his family closer to the pit of ignorance and death, the  natives prove themselves true kindred spirits and save the family despite  Nathan's attempt to force Kilanga into marriage with Christianity.   The  first half ends in an exodus, which is only one of many vivid biblical  allusions pervading this bible.  The soothing tone of voice takes a sudden  turn as readers are forced to draw attention away from the life and the  people; the main weakness of this novel is indeed Kingsolver's intense  intellectual storm in the second half that forces the reader to swallow  history.  There is an awkwardness in the transition that provides no  continuity in the natural progress of the four sisters and the mother:  frank but shallow Rachel, competitive but dogmatic Leah, philosophical but  morbid Adah, and young but so very young Ruth May, and an ailing mother too  scarred by thedevastation of Congo's burgeoning aberration as a young  independent country under Western shadow still.  Almost similar to War and  Peace except, Tolstoy was brilliant at picking up the thread, Kingsolver  devotes the second half to reflections of her own political views through  voices of different characters, that the magnitude of ideas and opinions  come as an astounding force to push the unique intimacy established  previously between the readers and characters completely away.  <br />But  despite its faults as an almost propagandized political novel, The  Poisonwood Bible is a great read for what it evokes in you. Arrays of  characters come fusing into the grand panaroma of Congo, to help shape a  fragile yet stern frame of the human resilience.  Do overlook Kingsolver's  effort to &quot;re-educate&quot;, Leah's defense of communism may seem  tiresome at the end but one thing is certain that lurks behind every single  line: Kingsolver's great love for a country, whose birth and growth are  hindered by what Westerners continue to regard as phenomena.  Her clear  focus never did become hazy despite the verbose offence her latter half  hastes to thrash upon Western Imperialism and expansionism.  Perhaps Africa  is a matter that demands far more folds, then Kingsolver does achieve an  impressive balance to capture the very essence of struggle at least.  Just  like disabled twin Adah says in the book, &quot;The Congo is only a long  path that takes you from one hidden place to another,&quot; yield to the  beautiful language and rhythm to be guided and questioned. History wise,  read an encyclopedia for more accurate details.	2000-04-23
US	52105292	R21IQQS20ONI51	0451628047	22760455	The Divine Comedy: Volume 1: The Inferno	Books	5	70	79	N	N	Journey to deep down under	Don't read Dante for his fame, don't judge The Inferno for its subject.  Instead, savor Dante's overpowering language that is cleverly winded around one of life's most daunting matter-Hell.  Pervaded with vivid and often  gruesome imageries, Inferno captures the very essence of suffering through  Dante's unqiue understanding of religion with a blend of paganism and  christianity. Also it's a thrilling ride down the underworld to be met by  history's greatest souls. The notes before every Canto is crucially helpful  in helping readers keeping up with ancient historical references.  And  feeling yourself penetrating the Nine Circles of Hell in the company of  Dante and Vergil, you will surely catch a rare taste of the living value as  Vergil guides curious eyes down a path where judgment befalls every single  flaw of human nature. Perhaps, just perhaps you will attain a better sense  of your existence once matched against the standards of Nine Circles  designed for different sins. I call that a gripping journey.	2000-04-07
US	52105292	R1P15HACKP29L3	0884111385	388504143	Taras Bulba	Books	4	5	8	N	N	The Other Side of Russia	It seems to me as if the only image of Russia accessible in this country is that of audacious radicals waving their fists chanting the communist rhyme.  Now Gogol as the master of Russian shortstory may have struggled to  attain the balance between realism and the love he bore for the art of  folklore.  No doubt Taras Bulba as one of Gogol's earliest work did emerge  as something quite different from his later satires, but just as the  radical image mentioned above, Russia itself is a great mural that awaits  discovery as readers probe into the colorful reality of the Cossacks.  The  title character is a Cossack leader stationed in Ukraine, whose sons bring  about complications to his seemingly simplistic military life.  It may be a  mere ethnical trait how belligerent the Cossacks are--shedding exuberant  blood for the sake of religion as well as pride.  Taras Bulba finds himself  riding another wave of great unrest towards a Polish town where his younger  son Andrei loses faith to passion. What follows is a grand panaroma of  Russian soil, streched afar patiently waiting for future battles made to  change boys into men and transform strangers into brothers.  As Andrei  forsakes his identity to be with the beautiful Polish girl whose home is  besieged, Taras Bulba leads the Cossack spirit into a realm of great  passion, of lust, of trust, and of courage.	2000-03-31
US	52105292	RARS6YAB09U07	0884111385	388504143	Taras Bulba	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Other Side of Russia	It seems to me as if the only image of Russia accessible in this country is that of audacious radicals waving their fists chanting the communist rhyme.  Now Gogol as the master of Russian shortstory may have struggled to  attain the balance between realism and the love he bore for the art of  folklore.  No doubt Taras Bulba as one of Gogol's earliest work did emerge  as something quite different from his later satires, but just as the  radical image mentioned above, Russia itself is a great mural that awaits  discovery as readers probe into the colorful reality of the Cossacks.  The  title character is a Cossack leader stationed in Ukraine, whose sons bring  about complications to his seemingly simplistic military life.  It may be a  mere ethnical trait how belligerent the Cossacks are--shedding exuberant  blood for the sake of religion as well as pride.  Taras Bulba finds himself  riding another wave of great unrest towards a Polish town where his younger  son Andrei loses faith to passion. What follows is a grand panaroma of  Russian soil, streched afar patiently waiting for future battles made to  change boys into men and transform strangers into brothers.  As Andrei  forsakes his identity to be with the beautiful Polish girl whose home is  besieged, Taras Bulba leads the Cossack spirit into a realm of great  passion, of lust, of trust, and of courage.	2000-03-31
US	52105292	R1V5JKAHUVMMTC	0486270572	474008675	The Overcoat and Other Short Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Magic under the Overcoat	Gogol no doubt took the position of the short-story master after the death of Pushkin.  Best known for his flowing prose with a nice zest of folklore, Gogol's foundation of realism was to remain and influence latter greats  such as Dostoyevsky and Turgenev.  In this delightful collection, Gogol  demonstrates his versatility as a mature writer through famous tales such  as The Overcoat and The Nose.  The Overcoat tells the story of a sincere  young clerk who makes great sacrifices to attain an overcoat of untold  value and power. Representing the mighty bureaucracy, Akaky Akakievich dies  of a broken heart when his beloved smart coat is stolen. Gogol then goes on  to showcase his forte as a whimsical and humorous writer, when Akaky  returns for his coat of significance from a personage.  This process  certainly symbolizes the reprisal of lower class against the dominance of  the ruling class.  Nose on the other hand, is a brilliant depiction of bad  story telling: jamming paradoxes as well as antithesis into one giant blob  of nonsense.  Yet it is just through this technique to recreate a fresh  narrative that helps Gogol to unarm the ossified minds of readers who have  been pampered by the way \\"story should be told\\".	2000-03-29
US	52105292	RIHBTW3LK9CSF	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Appreciate Beauty in its Naked Form	Despite continuous obsession with what beauty signifies, &lt;Lolita&gt; is still captivating readers worldwide w/ its pure stroke of genius, its glamorous yet clandestine charm, and most of all, the startling beauty of  the English language mastered by a Russian. Of a tragically  &quot;romantic&quot; and disturbing nature, &lt;Lolita&gt; captures the  essence of perversion and obsession through the story of Humbert Humbert  and his pre-teen nymph Dolores Haze, aka Lolita.  The nature and  consequence of Humbert's doomed passion is not meant to be judged; as a  lost European romanticist, Humbert comes to encompass the fading European  sensuality as he attempts to grasp his own lost innocence.  His troubled  adulthood is, according to Freud, the distorted extension of a nightmare  never fully awaken from.  After the failed romance in his childhood,  Humbert grows into a tattered frame looking for protection in a daughter  figure--Lolita.  The true disturbing aspect of this masterpiece is the  concept of &quot;double seducer&quot;.  Instead of presenting the mere form  of child molesting, Nabakov further highlights the darkness of obsession  and perversion by having Humbert seduced by a blossoming American girl  eager to weave her net of \\"amor\\".  The combination of Europe's weakening  sensuality and America's burgeoning sexuality proves to be deadly as  Humbert marries Lolita's mother in vain.    What exactly make a nymph?  <br />\\"Slightly feline outline of a cheekbone, the slenderness of a downy  limb, and other indices with despair and shame and tears of tenderness  forbid me to tabulate-the little deadly demon among the wholesome children;  she stands unrecognized by them and unconscious herself of her fantastic  power\\" <br />Lolita is not a mere juvenile character; the darkness of her  soul, unclouded by Humbert's blind passion is of such shattering force that  she transforms from the offended to the offender, the tormented to the  tormentor.  When I mentioned howHumbert was seeking a daughter-figure to  assuage his anguish and incomplete development, Lolita is at the same  finding the father figure in her \\"lover\\".  Nabakov may not have intended a  propaganda message through his bewitching prose, yet lurking hideously  between the lines is the truth about children's seemingly untainted hearts.   Oh no, no one is born free of sin, it takes only a spark to unleash the  demonic nymph who is made to woo, to be wooed, to destroy, and to be  destroyed.  Humbert on the other hand, is far more than a mere spark; he  sought the undying flame of beauty.  Truly, unlike common criminals who  consciously shatter the bounds of law and order, Humbert commits  &quot;crime&quot; to attain beauty in a very ignorant yet sincere fashion  that the disturbing way he accomplishes his goal appears pitiful.<br />If  there were a boundary to love, would it have been drawn far far away from  where Humbert and Lolita lay?  Although the brutality of Humbert's passion  eventually drives Lolita into the arms of another man, and consequently a  different hell of ignorance and of pain, their story might as well been  labeled as a surreptitious romance about a man and a woman finding SELF in  each other, except the man is a middle-aged European and the woman a  teenage American.  Many argue that &lt;Lolita&gt; is a work of mere mental  games and psychic labyrinth with an added advertisement for the American  highway system, depended on which Humbert and his child-love traverse the  entire country in order to escape and to embrace \\"beauty\\".  But what  Nabakov intended was an art piece, destined to dazzle and to puzzle the  world with its bold exploration into some forbidden corner of the heart,  and Hummy and Lo no larger than two mere figureheads made to laugh away  down the highway of immoral passion.  \\"The hell with morals,\\" they sing.	2000-03-22
US	52105292	RWCXXORQG5BKL	0451525086	990247892	The Death of Ivan Ilych and Other Stories (Family Happiness, The Kreutzer Sonata & Master and Man)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Bubble of Life framed Forever	In this seemingly monotonous novella, Tolstoy approaches death with a fresh view for his contemporaries.  Life, says Tolstoy, is nothing but a long stretched road of regulations, of normalities, and of ordinance.  Ivan  Ilych, a prominent official has led a glamorious life until he is struck by  the notion of the transitory life.  As he lay dying, the only pleasantry he  could recall is from his distant childhood when his path was clear and his  vision unclouded by ambition.  Modern society is indeed a fierce  experiementation ground for Social Darwanism: only the stronger survive,  and the stronger pays the ultimate price with their soul in order to  sustain the forever momentum of the conformist world.  Death in no longer  an end, it is the beginning, it is the resurrection Ivan Ilych could not  achieve during his lifetime when he was dazzled by the illusions of life.   But what of that life?  He never lived as a person, instead, along w/ other  toiling automaton striving to shed individuality in order to paint a great  picture of unity, Ivan Ilych glided across time to reach the end without  having once set foot on his path.	2000-03-21
US	52105292	R2NFTENAYI0WAY	0075536668	161451712	The Sound and The Fury	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Told by an idiot, signifying everything	It's difficult enough to distinguish a rare cultural fuse of the once-proud South after its stoop in the Civil War; Faulkner's overwhelmingly powerful pen only heightened the tension of a Southern  aristocratic family melting away in this ghastly clash of old-time unity  and new-time individuality.<br />Set in the imaginary Yoknapatawpha County in  Mississippi, this 1929 masterpieces focuses on the fall of the infamous  Compson clan.  Similar to Joyce, Faulkner stresses the stream of  consciousness rather than sheltered outward expressions.  As a great  technician who was not afraid to experience with his pen, Faulkner divides  the book into 4 parts having 3 Compson brothers and the family slaves lead  the readers through.  \\"Through what\\" is the huge challenge as Faulknerian  lyrics harshly bash the complex character's shallow projection by allowing  the readers to trace the thoughts forming process.  Named after the  renowned MacBeth line:\\"It is a tale/Told by an idiot, full of sound and  fury; Signifying nothing\\", Benjy the man-child begins the story in a rather  confusing tone.  Due to his impaired memory, the first part paints a  devious path that leads into overlapping time zones where the past, the  present, and the future exist as one for the youngest Compson.  Like his  brothers whose lives are more or less dictated by their sister Caddy's  sexuality, Benjy mourns over the loss of Caddy as he drifts into a darker  adulthood.<br />The eldest son Quentin is situated at an extremity where  everything evolves around Caddy's promiscuity.  \\"Chosen\\" as the  aristocratic heir, Quentin goes to Harvard where he stays haunted by the  mirage of a distorted youth.  The only Compson who actually appreciates the  Southern pride, Quentin comes to represent the fatality of a fallen giant's  anguish and helplessness.  Besides the disturbing twist to his relationship  with Caddy, Quentin is neurotically concerned with a false sense of honor  when Caddy does lose her virginity.His deadly obsession with purity and  pride further compel him to grope towards a personal Hell.  Jason the 3rd  eldest child is the brute that lays in dormant in all of us who bears a  strong hatred for Caddy. A natural cynic, Jason fully demonstrates human  capacity of Satanism.  His character is an ever-flowing current that  gallops in no direction and in every direction at the same time.  And the  very paradox of Jason's identity help explain the decadence of his nature  that appears unthinkable in a human being.  Jason has no soul, rather, it  dissolved in his own current of attempting to find himself in a  dysfunctional family where he (!) is left to play the role of the  patriarch.  Later in the novel, his relationship with Caddy's illegitimate  daughter further intensifies the devilish fury in Jason as he tries to  suppresses his niece who wishes to sound her own voice-in a house where her  mother's name is forbidden.  The last part is narrated by Faulkner himself  who ties the ends up through the black servants in the household who  witness the moral fall of their masters. The beauty of this book is  manifested in the final chapter when Caddy's, 2nd eldest child, tragic but  in a way heroic tale is reiterated.  The brilliance lies in Faulkner's  ability to create his most powerful character without painting a complete  picture; instead, Caddy, as the beloved mother-sister, the fallen angel,  and the hated attention-grabber, comes alive through broken pieces of  narration that are weaved into one another.  She never has a chance to  reveal her thoughts, yet through her decisions, Faulkner invigorates a  courageous young woman whose only weapon against the world is rebellion.  She is the heart of the story although not one full glimpse of her face is  given; it is indeed the invisible and extensive vibes that connect her to  every brother that enable her to become the source of the Compson sound and  fury.	2000-03-20
US	52105292	R212RZ0747KDDR	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Breath of wisdom in the ignorant world	In a society obsessed with the concrete heroism found only in action heroes, Siddhartha clears a path of quest for answers in a world where nothing seems to stand by itself anymore.  A spiritual hero in quest for  Selfhood, the son of Brahmin forsakes the luxuries and comfort of his home  to join the wandering Samanas in the forest.  Siddhartha's motive to  abandon his familiar environment is his hunger for answers; instead of  setting off to lead a glamorous life trimmed by fame and recognition so  overstressed in the physical battle, Siddhartha willingly \\"become empty,  become empty of thirst, desire, dreams, pleasure and sorrow-to let the Self  die\\". Yet even Samanas' self-sacrificing ways can't satisfy Siddhartha's  growing crave for wisdom that he leaves the Samanas to plunge into a new  life of hallow desires.  The unique nature of our protagonist is how he  fights his inner Self by \\"fleeting from myself\\" to become himself.  Yet the  kind of wisdom Siddhartha yearns can only be found when he surrenders to  Self and embraces what his nature fully encompasses. Having accomplished  his spiritual hero deeds of fighting then becoming One with Self,  Siddhartha is reborn through rising above the dark cluster of ignorance of  his dissipate life to be enlightened under a mango tree.  Only when he  comes to reconciliation with his Self through acceptance of fate, does  Siddhartha attains his wisdom after he yields to what destiny unfolds.  What a fresh breeze it must be to be abandoned by the commonality of the  material world only to be saved through the hell of unrest and discontent  through the lessons of humanity: the pain of love, price of wisdom, and  temptation of fear.	2000-02-27
US	52105292	RANYMYNBG20KI	0553208845	420587378	Siddhartha	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Breath of wisdom in the ignorant world	In a society obsessed with the concrete heroism found only in action heroes, Siddhartha clears a path of quest for answers in a world where nothing seems to stand by itself anymore.  A spiritual hero in quest for  Selfhood, the son of Brahmin forsakes the luxuries and comfort of his home  to join the wandering Samanas in the forest.  Siddhartha's motive to  abandon his familiar environment is his hunger for answers; instead of  setting off to lead a glamorous life trimmed by fame and recognition so  overstressed in the physical battle, Siddhartha willingly \\"become empty,  become empty of thirst, desire, dreams, pleasure and sorrow-to let the Self  die\\". Yet even Samanas' self-sacrificing ways can't satisfy Siddhartha's  growing crave for wisdom that he leaves the Samanas to plunge into a new  life of hallow desires.  The unique nature of our protagonist is how he  fights his inner Self by \\"fleeting from myself\\" to become himself.  Yet the  kind of wisdom Siddhartha yearns can only be found when he surrenders to  Self and embraces what his nature fully encompasses. Having accomplished  his spiritual hero deeds of fighting then becoming One with Self,  Siddhartha is reborn through rising above the dark cluster of ignorance of  his dissipate life to be enlightened under a mango tree.  Only when he  comes to reconciliation with his Self through acceptance of fate, does  Siddhartha attains his wisdom after he yields to what destiny unfolds.   What a fresh breeze it must be to be abandoned by the commonality of the  material world only to be saved through the hell of unrest and discontent  through the lessons of humanity: the pain of love, price of wisdom, and  temptation of fear.	2000-02-27
US	52105292	RNKP2BEWDQXA9	0374111197	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation	Books	5	30	40	N	N	Renewed sense of a forgotten world	Beowulf has long dazzled modern readers with the mystic world it paints with heavy strokes of action and emotion.  But rising above the rest of translations that have at least enabled us to read through the story, Irish  poet Seamus Heaney further extends the power of words to allow readers to  reach out into the heart of this Anglo-Saxon epic.  The known tale of a  Geat noble begins with Beowulf's first fight against the man-eating brute  Grendel whose hatred for mankind reflects the Anglo-Saxon society's call  for companionship.  After our hero Beowulf is decorated with praises and  gold for his triumph over Grendel in the famous Heroet Hall of Denmark, he  is confronted by Grendel's vindictive mother who is to fumble again at  Beowulf's feet. Fifty years hence, Beowulf, now the ruler of Geats, fights  his last battle against an aroused fire dragon to save his people. The  sacrifice he makes with his own life captures the essence of his supreme  heroism and sets him apart from the ordinary men.  <br />As the first English  speaking hero, Beowulf is suggested to be a \\"man alien in a hostile world,  engaged in a struggle which he cannot win...\\" by the novelists and critic  J.R.R. Tolkien.  Thus, through the analysis of Heaney, readers are able to  catch a refreshed sense of danger and excitement of a forgotten world  between the lines of an epic whose fame has daunted students who therefore  overlook the \\"mythic potency\\" of the original poetry (as suggested by  Heaney himself). The bilingual edition itself offers a shortcut for readers  between two worlds whose connection is established by Heaney's overpowering  pen.  Thanks to Heaney's masterful technique to weave the beauty of  language with the phenomenon of storytelling, Beowulf's individuality is  further stressed as he is to be better understood in the \\"hostile\\" world  that has abused the wonders of his story with other sketchy translations.   <br />Do recommend the poetry section before the prose.  It only enhances the  pleasure.	2000-02-27
US	52105292	R20CEIGXQN32ZQ	0553214047	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Meeting Stephen Dedalus	Readers who are familiar with the grown-up Stephen Dedalus from Joyce's acclaimed Ulysses will not fail to recognize the same aestheticized young man (of course much younger, duh)who struggles to find himself in balance  with the complexity of life. Written in Faulknerian style which is feared  and revered by readers, Joyce traces the childhood and youth of Stephen  from the day he was born.  Told in the baby babble at the beginning, to  boyish fancy, youthful paradox, until the last chapter streaming fluidity  of a nascent artist, Joyce captures every stage of his own development and  conquest through the main bends of the road of life. From sexual awakening  in his early teen years to later religious relization, Stephen Dedalus is  portrayed by Joyce's wondrous motion of words that never seems to cease  galloping forwards.  Yes, like the Sound and the Fury, this book is  provocative to certain degree as to challenge the readers seeking for  more--&gt;help build a concrete foundation for the brilliant depiction of  one of the most controversial characters of modern literature. The smooth  painting of mental as well as spiritual growth certainly characterizes this  work, and the seemingly impossible &quot;rambling&quot; between the pages  is definitely worth a try.	2000-02-21
US	52105292	R13JGZY3HNP6TZ	0140440356	125142565	The Devils: The Possessed (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Intriguing Study of the Revolutionary	Dostoyevsky himself is a victim of youthful frenzy, of revolution's dangerous freedom, and of radicals' ruthless betrayal. A powerful work of dark messages, Demons also known as The Possessed, crowns Dostoyevsky  literature before the brilliance and magnitude of The Brothers Karamazov.  Written more of severe historical recounts than a lighter fiction work such  as The Idiot, Dostoyevsky gained the permanent abhorrence of contemporary  radicals whose presence was lushly painted with angry strokes of danger and  of depravity. Base on an actual accident that took place in 1869, Demons  retells the story of an ailing radical, Shatov, whose emerging faith makes  him an obstacle in the way of one obscure town's intellectual circle. The  murder of Shatov is by no means a beginning of Dostoyevsky's lustrous  characterization going deep into the dark psyche of revolution; instead, it  is marked as an ending to a period of great turmoil and of intellectual  unrest that wake blinded followers as well as the observant surrounding to  the painful truth of progress. At the beginning, the readers are introduced  to a Nihilist father Stepan Trofimovich Verkhovensky, a retired lecturer  and educator who has been under the patronage of a local aristocrat Varvara  Petrovna Stavrogin. Stepan Trofimovich's mind of uncertainty leaves behind  a tremendous mess of doubts and of hatred in his son, Pyotr Stepanovich,  head of the local secret society.  The true hero of the story is Nikolai  Vsevolodovich Stavrogin, son of Varvara Petrovna, a troubled young man  whose dubious past haunts his present in the small town. Like other heroes  of Dostoyevsky, Stavrogin is handsome, rich, and dashing; unlike  Raskolnikov or Dimitri Karamazov, Stavrogin commits himself to worldly  evils unawarely as if in a state of dreams. The heart of Demons is the  possession of unguarded intellect turning into a possessive spirit, and at  the center of the dark confusions of ideas, of theories, and of rebellions,Stavrogin is chosen to unveil the face of the demons. Pyotr Stepanovich, on  the other hand, is characterized by his pretentious presence in front of  the weak and obsequious malice facing the powerful. His real-life  counterpart being Nechaev who led his political society against Ivan  Ivanov's (Shatov) struggle to break free, Pyotr is portrayed with care,  shrouded in shadow, and hidden in intellectualism. <br />With some of the most  provocative suggestions on revolution, Demons seems to challenge the rigid  intellect that is obsessed with replacing the old with something  revolutionary. DO READ WITH AN OPEN MIND.	2000-02-19
US	52105292	R26FMJ9KYR3HG1	0451525973	689665039	The Portrait of a Lady	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Exquisite if not Intriguing, Elegant if not Swift	Henry James is not known for his swift pace in world literature; instead, along w/ his psychiatrist brother, Henry James never fails to frame the fragility of human spirit with an elegant touch, weaving the psyche into  one continuous stream of thoughts. In this stunning achievement of his,  James portrays a young, ingenuous American heiress, Isabel Archer, who  comes to Europe looking for ways to escape commonality of her old life.  Intelligent and rebellious, Isabel soon finds herself entrapped in a  society where one might not soar as high even with an impressive fortune as  the one she has inherited. It is her wish to avoid the common lot that  leads her astray: first refusing a good nobleman, then bestowing herself on  a mysterious stranger for the sake of &quot;tasting reality&quot;.  Not  knowing the consequence of such a fateful entanglement, Isabel refuses  advice from her earnest but sickly cousin and eccentric but wise aunt to  consent to a devious dilettante, seducer who hunts her down with the appeal  of a poor man in want of sympathy.<br />This is where James so skillfully  masters the art of psychology--in one aspect the readers are drawn to share  in Isabel's subtle fall into an abyss of shapeless pain, in another apsect,  we as readers cannot help but denounce Isabel's pompous intelligence that  leads her further away from the truth which her pride prevents her from  seeing.  The moral of her tragedy (which includes further entanglement with  an American beau, her cousin, her step-daughter, an all-American  girl-friend, and a dark motherly figure whose relationship w/ Isabel's  husband remains a mystery for you to discover), is that in a process of  seeking happiness through pain, through seeking out suffering to justify  her wealth, Isabel loses sight of a reality that may be ruled by one thing  and one thing only--fate.	2000-02-09
US	52105292	RQNCRSRJUO5LB	0140444696	771237926	The Kreutzer Sonata and Other Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Beyond War and Peace + Anna Karennina	Although Tolstoy's grander and subsequently longer novles are what modern readers best charaterize him for, this collection of lively tales drawn from a exuberant writer's own life certainly has its sparkle.  Family  Happiness traces the path to a seemingly failed love-marriage from a unique  perspective--describing the inevitable growing-up process of romance.  Kreutzer Sonata, brilliantly structured, tells the story of an obsessive  man trapped in his own hatred towards love which directly results from his  failed marriage.  In the Cossacks, the readers are able to catch a vivid  glimpse of Tolstoy's own military years: young, passionate, idealistic,  spirited--seeking an escape from the banality of the aristocratic lifestyle  in the heart of the mountains. In Hadji Murad the most lenghy of the 4  stories, Tolstoy portrays a Chechen warrior whose prowess and valor are  ultimately striken down by an empire that overlooks the beauty of  differences (um...sounds familiar?  sounds recent? more like a current  event to me)  Precious insights in to Tolstoy's master mind for the  impatient readers who only seek a taste of his literature, and of course a  bonus beyond War and Peace + Anna karennina for Tolstoy fans like myself.	2000-02-04
US	52105292	R3PNSKAZNOJWLI	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Beautiful Tale: truly God of Small Things	The power behind Roy's exquisit rhythm is massive, and her ability to manipulate the sound of words is itself a pure stroke of genius.  Even if this book is not blessed with a strong storyline, the beauty of the language is certainly adequate for any thoughtful reader.  A story of  forbidden identities, God of Small Things tells a bittersweet tale of two  fraternal twins: Etha and Rahel.  Through the clear eyes of these children  with vague sense of themselves, Roy captures an India finally free from  Britain's rule.  There remains a English shadow in their universe, however,  as Etha and Rahel, along w/ their Rhodes scholar uncle, violin-playing  grandma, ex-nun babygrandma, and their beautiful beautiful mother, Ammu  strive to mend the shapeless hole in their universe.  Things indeed change  in a day as Etha and Rahel's English cousin is found dead...<br />Taking place  on the threshold of revolution, and staggering in the midst of the angry  waves as a nation cries out for change, God of Small Things does a fabulous  job patching together tiny fragments of a long forgotten dream in the  hearts of two children, whose lives are changed forever by one fateful day.   This is a romance of Ammu and the man &quot;her children love by  day&quot;, a coming-of age tale of twins that are forced to become unique,  and at last, a tragedy of the spirit of a country pushed towards brutality  and vengeance by the same force that brought about the so-called progress.	2000-01-27
US	52105292	R3TZZX4S6NSHCP	0679734511	640559300	Demons: A Novel in Three Parts (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Provocative Mystery of Revolution	Dostoyevsky himself is a victim of youthful frenzy, of revolution's dangerous freedom, and of radicals' ruthless betrayal.  A powerful work of dark messages, Demons also known as The Possessed, crowns Dostoyevsky  literature before the brilliance and magnitude of The Brothers Karamazov.   Written more of severe historical recounts than a lighter fiction work such  as The Idiot, Dostoyevsky gained the permanent abhorrence of contemporary  radicals whose presence was lushly painted with angry strokes of danger and  of depravity.    Base on an actual accident that took place in 1869,  Demons retells the story of an ailing radical, Shatov, whose emerging faith  makes him an obstacle in the way of one obscure town's intellectual circle.   The murder of Shatov is by no means a beginning of Dostoyevsky's lustrous  characterization going deep into the dark psyche of revolution; instead, it  is marked as an ending to a period of great turmoil and of intellectual  unrest that wake blinded followers as well as the observant surrounding to  the painful truth of progress.  At the beginning, the readers are  introduced to a Nihilist father Stepan Trofimovich Verkhovensky, a retired  lecturer and educator who has been under the patronage of a local  aristocrat Varvara Petrovna Stavrogin.  Stepan Trofimovich's mind of  uncertainty leaves behind a tremendous mess of doubts and of hatred in his  son, Pyotr Stepanovich, head of the local secret society.  <br />The true hero  of the story is Nikolai Vsevolodovich Stavrogin, son of Varvara Petrovna, a  troubled young man whose dubious past haunts his present in the small town.   Like other heroes of Dostoyevsky, Stavrogin is handsome, rich, and  dashing; unlike Raskolnikov or Dimitri Karamazov, Stavrogin commits himself  to worldly evils unawarely as if in a state of dreams.   The heart of  Demons is the possession of unguarded intellect turning into a possessive  spirit, and at the center of the dark confusions of ideas, of theories, and  of rebellions, Stavrogin is chosen to unveil the face of the demons.  Pyotr  Stepanovich, on the other hand, is characterized by his pretentious  presence in front of the weak and obsequious malice facing the powerful.   His real-life counterpart being Nechaev who led his political society  against Ivan Ivanov's (Shatov) struggle to break free, Pyotr is portrayed  with care, shrouded in shadow, and hidden in intellectualism. <br />With some  of the most provocative suggestions on revolution, Demons seems to  challenge the rigid intellect that is obsessed with replacing the old with  something revolutionary.  DO READ WITH AN OPEN MIND.	2000-01-23
US	52105292	R19VF72928WU4P	0465020933	987465997	Eugene Onegin: Translation By Douglas R. Hofstadter	Books	5	9	23	N	N	A True Beauty of Verses	What soars higher from the common ground of humanity then a bouncing spirit of ideas chiming with the music of life-poetry? I myself am fully convinced of the existence of the Russian psyche: the dark shadow of  eternal glory framed forever in the heart of revolutions.  Then not so  surprisingly, I became enamored with another Byronic hero portrayed by a  great romantic, Pushkin, prince of poetry.  Once I heard that all Russian  children learn to recite from Eugene Onegin, what better way to celebrate  and to honor one of the greatest treasures Mother Russia has to offer?    It's his genius to master the rhythm of words in composing music with  nothing but phrases-full of voices.  The power and beauty of Eugene Onegin  are overpowering to the eyes as well as the ears.  Perhaps some of its  original luster is lost through translations, but English has a certain  vibration of its own to re-create the magic of verses.  A story of love and  of betrayal, Eugene Onegin evolves around a restless, dashing aristocratic  who finds himself constantly trapped in intrigues and conquests.  During a  period of idleness, Onegin evokes love in a passionate Tatyana near his  country estate. After refusing Tatyana's audacious confession of love,  Onegin destroys his one chance of true happiness by provoking his best  friend to duel.  Years later, finding himself \\"a victim of the cruel  disease of apathy, his life adrift: no work, no wish, no wife\\", Eugene  Onegin falls for his formal admirer who is now a brilliant enchantress of  the St. Petersburg society.  Perhaps his revived memories serve as a  distinct contrast to his present, Eugene Onegin regrets his blindness when  the one woman who understood his heart revealed her deepest emotions only  to be confronted by soft mockery from jaded lips.   <br />Oh, Fate has fled  with far too much! / Blest he who quit life's celebration / ne'er having  seen its full design, / nor having drained his cup of wine; / who shelved  the book of life's narration / before he'd read its final line, / as I  know, with Onegin mine.<br />Summed up in his final words of the novel,  Pushkin's last stroke completes the luscious painting of one man's psyche  against the backdrop of a sumptuous St. Petersburg.  A work of great  details that draws every minute sensibilities together into one continuous  threat of emotions, Eugene Onegin laments the loss of innocence and of  truth in an age of revolutions when new ideas challenge the existing order  of morality.  Thus through one man's loss, Pushkin relates the so-called  progress and its influence on the mind as well as the heart in saying \\"our  race, rash and impetuous, ascends and has its day, then raves and hastens  toward ancestral graves\\".  The readers witness the death of Onegin's soul  as Tatyana returns to her assumed position in society playing another fool  of love.	2000-01-23
US	52105292	R3PP9NN1S5OYUC	0684837889	11530247	A Farewell to Arms (Scribner Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Poignant but True, Lacontic but Touching	Despite criticism of its &quot;harshly realistic&quot; dialogue and the rather simple outer layer to the plot, A Farewell to Arms has emerged as one of the greatest war story ever written. Known for his wealth of  experience gained in the brutality of battlefields, Hemingway gained  instant fame with his highly autobiographical tale of a tenuous love caught  in the sweeping wave of WWI.<br />Set in Italy, the story unfolds when a  young American ambulance driver, Henry, meets a gorgeous English nurse,  Catherine Berkley, for the first time. Perhaps it was due to the powerful  binding hands of the war that Berkley confides in Henry of her tragic love  and places instant faith in him. At first, Henry regards Catherine only as  an unwonted addition to his foreign &quot;episodes&quot; after he convinces  himself that this feeling of strong attraction is only the ramification of  war, of loneliness, and of the desire to share one's misery with someone  else. Yet as their affair progresses, especially after Henry was wounded  and put on covalence leave, he begins to see the sparkle of his passion for  Catherine expands into this glowing fire of love. War is a vital component  in Henry and Catherine's relationship as they plot their future together  with war as their perpetual constraint; they only lean on one another more  when Henry was forced to return to the front after learning Catherine is  pregnant. The irony of their love is the shared conviction that their  affair is in some way a representation of matrimony; refusing to marry  Henry after he has learnt of her pregnancy, Catherine urges Henry to go  back to where he belongs. During the retreat, Henry deserts the army in  order to escape the persecution that awaits all officers. Fleeing back to  the side of his love ready to sacrifice his life in order to be with her,  Henry prepares Catherine for the journey of their lives. The ending, set in  a Swedish hospital, is by no means a reconciling &quot;period&quot; tothe  long sentence with few commas even.<br />Hemingway's own tragic romance is  beautifully depicted by the movie made from Agnes Wiensky's novel, In Love  and War. In some way, despite occasional righteousness and victors'  justice, war is an opening to the broader side of nature's hideousness.  Wars are not meant to be sweet and gentle, even if they are enshrouded with  the divine touch of patriotism and of love. Henry and Catherine had grace  under the soaring siege of WWI because they didn't just observe the  on-going war as a superfluous event, but as a contagion of fear from which  they must flee. And in fact they do flee to freedom. Through Hemingway's  laconic and rough narration, few insights emerges above the surface; yet,  what his pen doesn't convey on the surface is an even deeper well that  awaits discovery and understanding, and that is the reality apart from the  polish plane of prose.<br />Some asks if the setting has been different,  could A farewell to arms have been culminated by a more jovial ending that  may in some way capture the triumphant nature of love. After all, we as a  species do rise above history, more often triumphant than not. But  Hemingway is not only a survivor of two wars, he is also the keeper of  poignant memories of his own love loss. It doesn't necessarily mean that  Henry and Catherine's love was killed by war-it was finished by fate. Their  love never died, it is immortal in the sense that their tale is an on-going  story without end. Their love is as great as love can be even without  ornamental phrases fictional lovers whisper in each other's ears; one  gesture, one glance, one word is enough to convince each other as well as  the readers how strong the war has made them to be, as one.<br />Men make  war, true enough for most of Hemingway's works, but also, more  significantly, wars make men. Hemingway is one of those who were certainly  made stronger by not only triumph, but also losses in the hands of fate and  of Self.	2000-01-17
US	52105292	R2ET9YEYF9QLRU	0786885246	569473707	Mansfield Park	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Dark and Appealing	As Jane Austen's most controversial novel, Mansfield Park continues to occupy an inveterate place in literature for its dark charm, its slow yet steady rhythm, its dry yet sharp and ironic humor, and of course fabulous  charaterization built on extensive description all within a country  challenged by progress.<br />Readers become acquainted with Fanny Price, a  victorian era Cinderella so it appeared--plucked from her family in  destitude to be allowed to blossom at her wealthy uncle's house, Mansfield  Park.  Of course being passive, steadfast, timid...certainlly lacking the  very fierce which makes Emma and Marrianne among other Austen heroine  memorable.  Yet withstanding the seductive charm of fortune and of  consequence, Fanny Price resists the wooing of a stranger Mr. CRawford who  puzzles everyone with his light gallantry and dark desires.  A soulmate  since childhood, Fanny's cousin Edmund yields in to Miss Crawford, who is  all but a nonessential part of Mr. Crawford's scheme of stolen pleasure.  Henry Crawford, certainlly one of the darknest characters ever portrayed,  more so then Willoughbe (excuse the sp.) is too caught up in the sensual  delights of his incessant conquests (including Fanny's 2 pretty cousins)  that even though he ackowledges the good influence Fanny's purity has on  his heart, he is too deeply sunken in his web of &quot;play&quot; to rise  and face truth of love.  Yes, Henry Crawford did love Fanny with his heart,  at least the pure part of it, unlike Edmund who loves Fanny only out of  brotherly affection.  But Fanny, whose steady character makes her an  unlikely candidate to Crawford's actual reformation, refuses Crawford's  sincerity and thus almost pushes him back into his bottomless hold of  scheme.  The storm thus takes place in the heart of London's upper society,  casting its shadow on the peaceful Mansfield Park community and shattering  everything Sir Thomas has persevered in building up--with fortune, and with  consequence...a mention of slave trade as well.<br />Mary Crawford is a  complex player, tainted by a society blindly wooing money and status, that  even Edmund is not able to save the good side of her.  Apart from Henry's  scheme, Edmund is forced to refocus and, voila, there is Fanny (no matter  how distasteful cousin-courtship is to many).<br />The movie adaptation of  this tale certainlly emphasizes the fighting nature of Fanny which is  rarely detected on pages.  Yet what IS acknowledged and admired in the  quiet little herione, is the perseverance so rare in a world on the verge  of revolution.	1999-12-30
US	52105292	R31QM0IYIEE1BM	0140434003	363093333	Jane Eyre (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Rebel in Literature	Despite general complaints of its monotonous dialogue, Jane Eyre continues to fascinate readers with dazzling morals embodied in an unlikely heroine--&quot;poor, obscure, plain, and little&quot;. Being a rebel among  its contemporaries, Charlotte Bront&eacute; presents the detailed psychological  aspects of human nature in the most deliberate manners.<br />The novel itself  has a very attractive story line with the orthodox format of &quot;good  fictions&quot;-- gloomy mansion with dark mysteries lurking out, and a  plain governess as the conqueror of all evil through the redemption of the  soul of one man who's escaping from the past and from the truth.  In this  madly materialized society, Jane Eyre has withstood the test of time to  continue embark echo in the heart and mind of the thoughtful.	1999-12-27
US	52105292	R26CGH9LLABMIN	0822006278	795962188	The Idiot (Cliffs Notes)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Perfection of Literature, Perfection of Soul	Shortly after the publishing of the critically acclaimed Crime and Punishment, Dostoyevsky once again showcases his talent as a versatile writer capturing the essense of the soul, plunging into the darkness of the  human spirit, and manifests a trace of faltering light in his attempt to  portray a Christ-figure, Prince Myshkin. <br />Selfless, innocent,  truthful...our sickly hero fascinates the glamorous St. Petersburg society  while blindly stumbling into an unseemly liason with a notorious  &quot;fallen angel&quot;.  All the while claiming to love out of pity, the  saintly antagonist grows to love a young beauty lurking behind a persona of  nonchalance. <br />Love is selfish, and selflessness is of the characteristics  that defines the Christ-figure Dostoyevsky tries to present here.  The  Christ-figure fails b/c perfection is suffering...like all idealism sprung  from the pursuit of perfection as our world is a battleground where no  extremeties thrive.  Myshkin does love two women, but is ultimately lost in  his pathos toward &quot;sinners&quot;.  After all, what would Christ choose  between passion and compassion?	1999-12-27
US	52105292	R3CJN0FT4C6TXB	0679405712	976358997	David Copperfield (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	&quot;Out of all my children, David Copperfield was my favorite&quot;	Similar to Dickens's own life, David Copperfield struggles through the first half of his childhood -- those unhappy, derogatory, and shameful years -- without privilege, respect, and purpose.  As he fights free to  embrace the benevolence of his great aunt, &quot; Trotwood&quot; is born  and begins his happier &quot;schoolboy days&quot; at Canterbury. Eight  hundred pages is just adequate as outsiders observe David Copperfield  matures within and transforms from the heart.  The major theme of the novel  being the disciplince of heart, Dickens gives an insightful look of the  frolicking nature of child-love for Dora as a &quot;young bud blossomed a  day too soon&quot;. Through confrontations with the unbendable limitations  of reality, Copperfield comes to shoulder the responsibility of a  disciplined heart enthralled to another.<br />Certainlly a rich source of  literature's most memorable characters, David Copperfield gives us  perfidious Uriah Heep, gallant Steerforth, egotistic Mr. Murdstone,  thriftless Mr. Micawber ...David Copperfield rises to become the man  Dickens himself was--&quot;the hero of his own life&quot;.	1999-12-27
US	52105292	R1N5M67M296FTW	0553212737	569473707	Emma (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Charming, witty--an Austen regular	Who can deny the fact that almost every earthling has taken up the fancy of arranging others' lives as roles of puppets?  &quot;Life is a stage&quot; so Shakespeare claims, Emma Woodhouse just finds herself  enthralled to such dramatic performances, and being so confident of her  &quot;directing&quot; skill, scene after scene of Highbury romantic  comedies come alive under the hands of Emma before she is even aware of  them herself. <br />A charming sample of Austen's lighter works, Emma presents  the story of a Victorian era Cher, busy meddling with the love-conquests of  her young apprentice Harriet Smith, fumbling into a carelessly-knit net of  pretence, then rising to find her Prince Charming in a quiet corner of her  throbbing young heart.	1999-12-27
US	52105292	RZS8BRKQK2Z4C	0140434895	365726027	Great Expectations (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	No shadow of another parting from &quot;Great Expectations&quot;	The readers first encounter Pip in the renowned scene with the convict -- &quot;growling, red-eyed, and desperate&quot;: &quot;Bring me food, boy! Or I'll eat your heart and liver too..&quot; Out of kindness in heart, Pip  &quot;befriends&quot; the convict as his fate is changed forever. Little  does he know how his whole existence is to complete the life of another--a  stooping savior.<br />Though of little social significance, Pip lives a  content life full of innocent happiness and simple joys. As his horizon  suddenly expands with an unexpected fortune, Pip finds his own path crossed  with the paths of a misanthropic Miss Havisham and her young, beautiful,  yet seductive ward Estella. Extravagance feeds Pip's vanity to burgeon,  desire flourishes his motives of becoming some one he can never become.   Pip strives desperately to extricate from the deepest root of his whole  being.  And the obsession grows for Estella as he wanders of further away  from  his true path.    <br />Followed by the death of Magwitch, love once  again awakes within Pip as he embraces the man hidden in the darkest corner  of his soul. No longer the dashing young man in his blooming age, Pip at  last starts a expedition to pursue something that is conquerable.  <br />Thus  we see &quot;no shadow of another parting from her&quot;...	1999-12-27
US	52105292	R23MS6XP17MUSS	0151001006	877433184	Snow Falling on Cedars	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A modern masterpiece that leaves one's heart shaken	Kabuo Miyamoto, a hero from the WWII battlefields, is accused of murder in a place where generation of Japanese and whites have lived in tensile harmony until Pearl Harbor when everything fell apart...As the trials  begin, a story of courage, of love, and of hatred unfolds as cedars become  enshrouded in the pure drape of San Pedro snow. <br />A haunting tale  questioning truth and its meaning to the men and women who were made  victims by a terrible contagion called war, Guterson touches the human  heart chambers through a poignant vibe of love and hate, of vengeance and  forgiveness, and of sins and redemption.  <br />Despite the hasty ending and a  seeminly Hollywood &quot;White boy saves Asian girl&quot; formula, Snow  Falling on Cedars refocuses on war from a whole new perception and brings  us to gape at the unfathomable mirage of hatred that is deeply rooted in  every soul.	1999-12-22
US	52105292	R2GYHRTY6DW8CB	0451524497	289712823	Anna Karenina (A Signet Classic)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An Absolute Must Read for the Thoughtful	The question whether love can rise above social condition is the contradiction that has puzzled the world for centuries. Even in modern fairytales like The Bridge of Madison County and Horse Whisper, the paradox  manifests itself in readers' imaginations with two different strands of  solutions trying to unite. Tears are shed when passion indeed thrives but  social constraint separates the hungry hearts, but when one focuses on the  other side of that paradox, we see tragedy in both Emma Bovary and Anna  Karenina.<br />When Anna deserts her husband, a sophisticated bureaucrat, and  her young son, ultimately her status to succumb to her desires for the  dashing Vronsky, society abandons her as well. She is moved by Vronsky's  words that solve the mystery of her unhappy marriage life, &quot;But how  often the happiness of marriages founded on reason crumbles to dust because  the very passion that was disregarded makes itself felt later&quot;.  Running in parallel with Anna Karenina's adultery is Levin's, a young  nobleman a.k.a. Tolstoy's fictional counterpart, quest for truth in love  and in religion. What he seeks in life manifests the same physical and  mental burden as he struggles to gain control of a life that is indeed  under the dominance of social status.<br />What puzzles me is if Anna's  tragedy is to be presented in a modern setting with fewer social  constraint, how the outcome would differ. Morality of society alters while  morality of mankind alters little; that statement itself may create some  obstacle in a replay, but perhaps more freedom is indeed allowed in the  modern world which explains the frequency of divorce and of course, crimes.  No one can abide the law according to Tolstoy, and that certain doesn't  change with time and progress. Love cannot exist free of social influences,  but passion could. Yet at the end, love thrives over social boundaries  while passions dies tamed perhaps by the iron claws of systematic  limitations.	1999-12-21
US	52105292	R18DXPZQLR5OYG	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Epitome of Western Literature	It's true how often we tend to become oblivious of the plain facts about war and peace. We are simply torn between the two concepts that it is easy to forget, after all, we are either in war or peace; there seems to be no  choice. War and Peace by Russian novelist Count Leo Tolstoy, 38, was  published in its first installment in 1866-the same year in which Crime and  Punishment was completed. What a nice coincidence. History taught us  revolutions of swarming intellectuals and conquests of stirring patriots of  that particular time period; then perhaps it is not so difficult to  distinguish the common route Russian writers of that age were attempting to  manifest.<br />Tolstoy presents us a magnificent epic of three particular  aristocratic families: the Bezukhovs, the Bolkonskys, and the Rostovs. As a  scenic study of early 19th-century Russian society, War and Peace portrays  the impacts of the Napoleon invasion against a vivid background of Russian  social life. The theme of war is closely entwined with the theme of family  existence, and as Tolstoy introduces hundreds of vivid characterizations,  we as readers become forever enthralled to Prince Andrey, Pierre, and  Natasha.<br />Through Tolstoy's lengthy essays on human nature of existence  pattern, it's not difficult to come with such an analogy, war to peace:  idealism to reality. What Tolstoy attempts to capture is not the simplicity  of war and peace's relationship; the complexity lies in our reaction and  the decision we come to about our own roles and the stands we take between  war and peace. Tolstoy's own ambiguous definition of free will, &quot;In  history what is known to us we call the laws of necessity; what is unknown,  we call free will,&quot; presents another aspect of human nature that is  only shaped through consistent existence pattern. The novel itself sets  forth such a theory of history, concluding that there is a minimum of free  choice; all is ruled by an inexorable historical force. Then it's not so  ironic the way Tolstoy ridicules the so-called strategist; he argues that  although Napoleon may be the &quot;expression of that age&quot; as a  leader, his intellectual activity is simply produced and created by the  movement of people. And Tolstoy further argues that Napoleon  &quot;genius&quot; comes from sheer chance and his triumph from mere luck.  After all, Tolstoy's battlefields are full of chaos as everything is only  determined by course of nature itself.en it's not so  ironic the way Tolstoy ridicules the so-called strategist; he argues that  although Napoleon may be the &quot;expression of that age&quot; as a  leader, his intellectual activity is simply produced and created by the  movement of people. And Tolstoy further argues that Napoleon  &quot;genius&quot; comes from sheer chance and his triumph from mere luck.  After all, Tolstoy's battlefields are full of chaos as everything is only  determined by course of nature itself.	1999-12-21
US	52105292	RFNSYGETWLOWU	0679601813	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov (Modern Library)	Books	5	28	38	N	N	Intense Look at the Human Spirit	Countless parallels can be drawn between two of Dostoyevsky's most celebrated works, Crime and Punishment and The Brothers Karamazov. But it is not an ironic coincidence since Dostoyevsky literature is pervaded with  three perpetual themes: the craving for faith, nature for freedom, and  origin of evil. And The Brothers Karamazov, as the pinnacle of  Dostoyevsky's career, is an amazing combination of all the elements that  contribute to the intrigues of psychology and religion.<br />The plot evolves  around the murder of a depraved landowner, Fyodor Karamazov. The trial  itself takes place later in the book with the three sons of Karamazov  playing seemingly afflicting roles. It is not accurate to assume each  brother's position according to the three themes; simply, each brother  represents a unique combination of all three themes with incoherent  reactions and consequences. Alyosha is identified as the hero of the novel,  and he is the Dostoyevsky's final attempt to personify Christ. Ivan, the  second son, is a revolutionary intellectual who more or less symbolizes  Dostoyevsky's ideal of &quot;craving for faith&quot;. Acting as  Raskolnikov's counterpart, Ivan is Dostoyevsky's attempt to refute the  rising radical idealism. It is Dmitri's passion for two women that  ultimately triggers the catastrophe. Nature of freedom is truly manifested  in this unhappy man desperately trying to regenerate.  Held in comparison  with Crime and Punishment, The Brothers Karamazov dares to manifest the two  abysses of human nature with somewhat less realistic and more surreal  characters. The plot itself evolves around life's many paradox; for  example, the elder himself once led a notorious career; and Dostoyevsky  paints a not-so-promising picture of church, overwhelmed with dark  oppression. Also, instead of one female character that symbolizes love and  religion, Dmitri's sin is only justified through the love of two completely  different women. Ironic enough, neither women possess Sonya's divine  serenity. Katerina, Dmitri's former betrothed, loves him out of gratitude,  and when her convinced love is ruthlessly rejected, she seeks revenge and  helplessly falls for Ivan. Grushenka, a player figure that continuously  tempts Fyodor and Dmitri's passion, sees herself as the cause to the  calamity since many believe Dmitri's motive of murder to be jealousy. But  nonetheless, Dostoyevsky strives for balance and sense of truth that is  usually found in the middle of extremities. And just as the Devil recites  from Terence's comedy Heautontimoroumenous (The Self-torturer), &quot;Satan  sum et nihil humanum a me alienum puto&quot; (I am a man, and nothing human  is alien to me), The Brothers Karamazov captures the struggle we are only  too familiar with, and frames forever &quot;those moments when the lie  becomes the truth&quot;.	1999-12-21
US	52105292	RK5P6BZ6G4HP0	0684822776	514615417	The Riders	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Dark and Haunting	The riders--&quot;seen and unseen, patient, dogged faithful in all weathers and all worlds, waiting for something promised, something that was plainfully their due...&quot;,come to represent an unfathomable mirage that  keeps haunting Scully through his darkest hours.  Believing his wife to  have abandoned him and their daughter for a reason, Scully goes on a chase  of rampange in pursuit of a shapeless promise and nameless due. A  compelling tale into the deep realm of one man's psyche, Winton does a  fabulous job penetrating through the surface of reality in search of the  source of a deadly obsession. Dragging his 7-year-old daughter by his side,  The Riders is also a tale of love, of what little is remained of a family  unity.  Only through his love buried in his own troubled spirit, does  Scully rises above a maze of deception painted by his own blind obsession.  A mystery with no ending, be prepared to find yourself in owe of the  ungraspable nature of human nature.	1999-12-21
US	52105292	RESSUR0UHCENA	0140445285	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Powerful combination of religion and psychology	Rodian Romanovitch Raskolnikov is a poverty-stricken ex-student who regards himself as an extraordinary man that is capable and responsible for the \\"superman\\" format social changes. He declares his intention early  enough in the novel by committing a double murder of a pawnbroker and her  sister, thus readers begin to rationalize Raskolnikov's way of thinking, of  reasoning (which may appeal to many, and disgust others).  He ultimately  believes the extraordinance Napoleon possessed revived within him, another  who dares to differ.   At the end, Raskolnikov's rational and humane side  intertwines with his renewed contact with the world through his love for  Sonya, his reverence for Porfiry, and last, his convict life in Siberia. Of  course long before he is justified by a punishment, Raskolnikov's  conscientious burden is relieved by admitting to his crime.	1998-12-28
