US	52116450	RO9UPVGBZWB5W	1555835856	123958089	Murder in the Rue Dauphine: A Mystery	Books	2	1	5	N	N	A Weak Murder Mystery	While working out at the local gym, New Orleans private detective Chanse MacLeod meets a good-looking young man with a problem.  It seems that someone's been threatening to reveal his rich, closeted boyfriend's identity to the public unless he comes up with $50,000.  Seems like a simple case of blackmail until Chanse finds the young man dead.  Against his better judgement -- and that of the police -- Chanse sets out to find out who killed his client, following a winding trail through New Orleans high society and the world of gay rights.<br /><br />The story itself is ripe with possibilities, but the execution of it leaves much to be desired.  Chanse MacLeod comes across as arrogant, boring and very much into the looks-oriented stereotyping that plagues gay culture.  He summarizes each man he meets by referencing his height, his build and his relative attractiveness, at one point even stating that one character would be attractive if he lost weight.  For a mystery to have a chance, shouldn't the reader like the detective even a little bit?<br /><br />Most of the male characters have no problem removing their shirts at the drop of a hat to show off just how muscular and toned they are, even if it doesn't have anything to do with the plot.  The writing style is very monotonous, wanting to explain every little action in short, passive sentences that drone, almost as if the author were trying to imitate the speech of the old hardboiled gumshoes &agrave; la Dashiell Hammett.  I found it very difficult to get into the story and to like any of the characters, making this - for me, anyway - a very weak murder mystery.	2005-09-30
US	52116450	R13J5CH0ZZ2TD9	1932360476	808789920	The Haunted Hillbilly: A Novel (Soft Skull ShortLit)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A Twisted Tale of a Musician's Rise and Fall	Nudie, the costume designer for a mysterious carnival, takes a shine to up-and-coming countrysinger Hank.  Hank's just been asked to appear at the Grand Ole Opry, and Nudie convinces Hank to allow him to design his clothes.  Soon, it becomes clear that Nudie's intentions are more wicked and devious than what Hank is prepared for.  With minimal and precise words, author Derek McCormack creates a creepy underworld of country music and vamprisim.  He uses only what is necessary and allows the reader's mind to fill in the scenes, offering a very effective story that sent chills down my spine during the last chapter.  A fine, quick read.	2005-09-23
US	52116450	R19L98TALI6DHI	0060735457	948903576	The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove (Pine Cove Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A monster thriller that will leave you in stitches	In the small coastal town of Pine Cove, CA, the local psychiatrist decides to take everyone off their regular medications, quietly replacing them placebos.  Soon enough, the whole town starts acting funny, and things get even strange when a seabeast named Steve roars up on the shore.  He has a certain way about him that brings out the libidos of anyone around -- human and animal alike -- and starts to enjoy his new hunting grounds.  It's up to local sherriff (and stoner) Theo Crowe to figure out how to rid the town of their newest resident before more people start to disappear.<br /><br />Author Christopher Moore is at his best with this comic horror tale.  Great characters -- especially Steve, a throwback to the swinging days of the '70s sex scene...even if he is a 100-ft. sea monster; imaginative storytelling; lots of intrigue and action.  An all around great book to read.  Fans of monsters, horror novels, even comedies will love this!	2005-09-15
US	52116450	R3G7SO958O8AU0	1902852095	370740927	Fatal Shadows	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great new sleuth in Adrien English	Adrien English runs a small bookstore in Pasadena, CA.  He also owns one of the largest collections of gay mysteries in the Los angeles area.  His life soon becomes like the subject of one of those mysteries when his best friend, who also works at the bookstore, is found dead -- stabbed to death -- and Adrien is viewed as the main suspect.  He sets out to learn what happened to his friend and along the way, begins to wonder what the motives are behind hunky Detective Jake Riordan's unusual concern for him.<br /><br />This is a great introduction to a new gay sleuth.  He's not the stereotypical gay man, making it easier to get caught up with his emotions as he delves deeper into the mystery surrounding his friend's death.  The story flows logically and easily and has plenty of twists and turns to keep every mystery fan happy.  Not to mention that all the characters -- from Adrien to Detective Riordan even to the minor character of Angus who fills in at the store -- are well-written and enhance the story, making it more realistic.  This novel is a great introduction to a new sleuth.	2005-08-27
US	52116450	R19UV8E1ACPAG3	1902852354	247347104	Fly on the Wall	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Behind the Scenes of Reality TV	A new reality TV show is in the works for the British viewing public: Elephant and Castle.  Cameras follow the residents of a neighborhood in one of London's seedier areas, showing their triumphs, their defeats, and just a little bit of fictional intrigue.  The characters: the galmorous Serena Ward, a womand with a little something extra; Jamie Lord, an ex-marine turned hustler who's smitten with Serena; Maureen and Muriel, two devious drag queens trying to break back into show business any way they can; Debbie Wicks, a busty young woman with manipulative parents; Fat Alice who will do anything to get her 15 minutes of fame; and a host of other residents.<br /><br />\\"Fly on the Wall\\" delves into the tricks people will do to get their time in the spotlight, no matter who they step on or the problems they cause.  This is a wonderfully catty novel that gives the reader a no-holds-barred look into the world of reality TV.  Great characters, interesting story lines, and sometimes just plain evil -- this novel delivers.  It sucks you in and doesn't let go, offering tears, laughs, and a devilishly good time.	2005-08-11
US	52116450	RSX0YADT6JKUS	0802130135	935267629	Our Lady of the Flowers	Books	2	19	41	N	N	Confusing tale of a gay man behind bars....I think	I figure to be the lone voice of dissent with this novel, which I found confusing and ultimately uninteresting.  Genet's novel, written while in prison, jumps back and forth among the many characters, often following tangent upon tangent.  I kept losing track of who was who, which one is supposed to be Genet (because I had the distinct impression that this novel might be autobiographical), sorting out the names and sequences of events, and trying to find a storyline that would last long enough to hold my interest.  Genet would start on a good story and then all of a sudden jump in another reflection from that, never satisfactorily returning or finishing the original story.<br /><br />It's very sexual and delves into the world of transvestism, but ultimately left me more confused than ever about what Genet was trying to say.	2005-07-21
US	52116450	R1CVN0S99QPXFF	0671507036	302793228	Montana 1948: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A quiet novel about family loyalty and justice	A grown-up David Hayden recounts the events during the summer of his twelfth year, the summer that changed his family forever.  At his home in Montana with his father the County Sheriff and his mother, they employed a young Sioux woman named Marie Little Soldier to act as a housekeeper and as a nanny for David.  She became a member of the family, so much so that when she took ill, they called in their own family doctor -- David's uncle (his father's brother) -- to look in on her.  But she refused to be left alone in the room with him, and soon a dark family secret made its way into the open.  A few days later, Marie mysteriously died, changing Hayden family relationships forever.<br /><br />\\"Montana 1948\\" is a quiet novel, filled with insight into the 12-year-old mind when dealing with important issues that threaten the family.  All the characters -- good and bad -- are presented realistically and believably, and as a reader, I really had a sense of what small town life in 1948 Montana must have been like.  Author Larry Watson sets at the heart of his novel the difficulty of having to choose between family and what is right and just, all revealed through the eyes of young David.  Gripping and powerful, this is a remarkable piece of writing.	2005-06-27
US	52116450	R1DAM6FQPNO4DR	1555838405	324392496	Firelands: A Novel	Books	4	22	23	N	N	A horror/historical novel with a gay twist	Cole Seavey is a frontiersman traveling through Ohio during the winter of 1799.  During a fierce storm, he happens upon a terrified and severly injured young girl, lost in the woods, but is attacked by some kind of creature before he can save the girl.  A handsome young Delaware brave named Pakim stumbles across the terribly wounded Cole and takes him to a cabin near the town of Hugh's Lick.  Days later, he awakens, trying to piece together what happened with that strange creature as well as trying to understand his strange feelings for Pakim, believing them to be caused by his high fever.  Soon, townsfolk began disappearing; animals are slaughtered; tales of an Indian demon -- a wendigo -- begin to work their way through Hugh's Lick.  Cole and Pakim set out to put an end to this demon before more deaths occur.<br /><br />A very interesting historical novel that interweaves two good stories: the mystery surrounding the wendigo and the coming out of Cole Seavey as he begins to understand his feelings for Pakim.  Being a fan of horror novels, author Michael Jensen handled the wendigo aspect of the story with much tension, gore and suspense to satisfy me.  Eerie forests, thick fogs, and the fear of the unkown and unseen are used well by Jensen to heighten the creepy feel of the book.  He also handles the homosexual aspect of the book equally well, showing Cole trying to come to terms with his new feelings for Pakim which shows him insight into his own past, and also portraying how 18th Century America felt toward what they considered a deviant lifestyle, with the characters of John Chapman -- who later became the American folk legend Jonnhy Appleseed -- and his partner, Palmer, who are forced to live on the outskirts of Hugh's Lick.<br /><br />I found this book hard to put down and finished it in one sitting.  Guess you could say that I liked it.	2005-06-26
US	52116450	R1OKMU6Z9F0P5C	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Behind the scenes at the 1893 World Columbian Exposition	Author Erik Larson presents a unique look at a once-in-a-lifetiem event from the 1890s.  Something about the juxtaposition of true stories - of the architect Daniel Burnham and his struggles to design and build the World Columbian Exposition in Chicago and of the serial killer H.H. Holmes who used the fair as a ploy to lure young women to Chicago - captured my interest and wouldn't allow me to stop reading. Burnham faced the daunting task, once newspapers announced that Chicago had earned the right to hold the fair instead of New York, of mustering up interest by his architects of choice, finding a suitable location, working under the enormous time constraints (the fair wasn't completed when it opened), fighting unpredicatble weather, and, of course, dealing with the constant pressure of trying to top the more recent World's Fair in Paris that introduced the Eiffel Tower. I admit to smiling when I learned that thanks to Chicago's fair, we now have shredded wheat, incandescent light bulbs, and what surpassed the Eiffel Tower: a 250-feet in diameter iron wheel with Pullman cars spaced along its arc - the Ferris Wheel, named after its inventor George W. Ferris. But this particular fair also had a darker side, thanks to Dr. H.H. Holmes and his World's Fair Hotel. Many young ladies in his employ disappeared, and he created elaborate stories of them leaving town to wed or to visit family. When he was finally captured, he had come to believe that he was becoming the Devil.<br /><br />A completely engrossing work of non-fiction that captures the time period of the 1890s to perfection.	2005-05-19
US	52116450	RV70X6GHTG6BU	0312878818	870537080	Why We Never Danced the Charleston	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A tragic gay romance set in 1920s Charleston	In this novel, the unnamed narrator recounts the love triangle between himself and two other men in 1920's Charleston - a very repressive time when even a new dance was considered shocking enough to have people arrested.  The young narrator meets Ned Grimke, a shy, club-footed boy, when just a child and begins an unusual friendship.  As they grow older, the narrator begins to distance himself from him, not liking the unusual attraction that Ned has for him; he soon learns that he himself has such strange urgings.  He begins to haunt the secret places where such men meet: a waterfront area known as The Battery and the Peacock Alley Bar.<br /><br />One night, the narrator meets the handsome Hirsch Hess, a brooding Jew who seem sbent on self-destruction over his homosexualtiy.  They share a short-lived affair until Hirsch accidentally meets Ned.  The two form a strange, very close bond that both the narrator and societal pressures attempt to break with disatrous results.<br /><br />\\"Why We Never Danced the Charleston\\" offers a unique glimpse at homosexuality in the South during the 1920's - a time when sexual expression was just beginning with new dances and other forms of culture.  Greene depicts a very repressed society, in which everyone knows that the love between two men is wrong, where such men are taught to loathe themselves and others like them, and yet they survive, live and love despite what society says.  His characters and their reaction to the time and societal norms with which they live come across very realistically.  And, even though the ending is typically tragic for a gay novel, I still enjoyed reading it.	2005-05-08
US	52116450	R112GLVZS1BYVE	048627263X	467344666	Flatland: A Romance of Many Dimensions (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A sci-fi classic about life in two dimensions	Flatland is a two-dimensional unvierse, inhabited not by people as we know them, but by shapes - triangles, polygons, circles, etc.  The narrator, A. Square, introduces the readers to the customs, class distinctions (based on geometric shape), male and female roles, how to tell one another apart, and on general life living in a world of only two dimensions.  Square's life is turned upside down when, on the eve of the new millenium, a strange visitor literally drops into his home.  This visitor - a Sphere - has chosen Square as his apostle to teach the two-dimensional masses about how more to life there is beyond their flat world view.<br /><br />At first glance, this comes across as a novel about higher math: geometry, 2- and 3-dimensions, the possiblity of higher cimensions after the third, etc.  Author Edwin Abbott examines and illustrates what life would be like living in such flat world, in which everyone resembles a straight line - whether the \\"person\\" is a circle, a triangle, or a square - because only one side of them can be seen.  On a deeper level, though, Abbott offers a scathing parody of Victorian society.  (After all, the book was first published in the late 1880s.)  Class distinction based on birth is rampant.  The \\"lower\\" beings, such as isocoles triangles and irregular shapes, live in shame and are looked down upon by society.  They will never attain the good paying jobs or respectability that those shapes with more sides have.  Women are seen as merely lines, very dangerous to society, though, so they must be kept uneducated.  Their main purpose is to help their male counterparts achieve higher and higher status through breeding.<br /><br />Quite a remarkable book for its time.	2005-04-29
US	52116450	R39H648YN9URU0	1555836615	473834254	Curious Wine: A Novel	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Love comes when you least expect it	After finally ending a four-year, abusive relationship, Diana Holland takes a much-needed breather at a cabin in Lake Tahoe along with other woman - kind of a \\"Girls Only\\" getaway. The last thing she expected was to find love - especially in the form of Lane Christianson, a lawyer from San Francisco. Together, they both experience for the first time a physical and emotional relationship with another woman and deal with the repercussions to their personal lives as they prepare for what happens after they leave Tahoe.<br /><br />I liked the relationship between Diana and Lane because of the newness of it and how that was shown from Diana's perspective - not believing that she's falling for another woman, trying to convince herslef it's just a phase with a One Night Stand with a football player, finally realizing what she wants and needs. The whole novel seemed to focus much on the physical aspects of their relationship and only to touch on the emotional reasons behind it.  A good novel about unexpected love between two woemn.	2005-04-25
US	52116450	R3M5F2IU65TI0Y	1555834884	18926363	The Ghost of Carmen Miranda: and Other Spooky Gay and Lesbian Tales	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Gay and Lesbian tales of love and ghosts	The majority of stories in this collection - edited by Julie K. Trevelyan and Scott Brassart - deal with ghosts helping the living find love: of past loves trying to help their partners move on and to find love (\\"Taking Care of Faith\\" by A.J. Potter, \\"Old as a Rose in Bloom\\" by Lawrence Schimel); older ghosts and other supernatural beings helping new lovers to find one another (\\"The Course of True Love\\" by d.g.k. goldberg, \\"Paisley\\" by Jessica Kirkwood); and, of course those with a more evil bent (\\"amat67.jpg\\" by Hall Owen Calwaugh).  They're all fairly pleasant tales, easy to read an enjoyable; however, this collection is almost like reading the same story over and over.  Some of the standouts making this a worthy collection to read are \\"The Haunting of Room 110\\" by Michael Price Nelson about a ghost waiting for his lover to join him, and \\"Eyes\\" by E.J. Galusha, which really did put the scare in me and is a fitting finale to the collection.  An overall good collection for anyone wanting a gay take on ghosts.	2005-04-16
US	52116450	RWC7UUR2WR14P	0802134971	509870158	Rushes (Rechy, John)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A dark and engrossing look into the leather bar scene	\\"Rushes\\" tells the stoyr of one night spent at a seddy leather/uniform night club in an unspecified warehouse district along the waterfront. It's a dark place, filled with sexual odors, drugs, hidden faces and lusts, and dark corners wherre anything and everything could be happening.  Four friends - Endore, Chas, Bill and Don - spend the evening trying to find the one person to go home with.  Endore is a columnist who writes about the gay lifestyle and his belief that there is no such thing as love in the gay world; Chas views the rushes as his hunting grounds, where he is the ultimate prize; Bill wants to see how many men he can connect with but his pickiness sometimes cluds his own judgement of people; and Don is the oldest of the group, feeling his age everytime he invites himself to join his friends at the Rushes.<br /><br />Each has his own insecurities which come out in full force on this particular evening.  Sides are taken when a woman named Lyndy - a fashion designer - is grudginly allowed into their macho, all-male domain.  Her appearance and her banter act as a catalyst between Chas and Endore, alternately setting them against on another or forcing them to join the same side.  Later, a drag queen and her female companion cause a stir near the entrance to the Rushes which forces Endore to take a closer look at how gay men have been forced to find places where they can be themselves, and any intrusion into that world is angrily looked down upon.  This novel also touches on ageism and the fear of the gay community with the character of Don - who feels that no one wants anything to do with him because he's slightly older; he remembers the days before clubowners put up signs such as \\"Under 35s Only\\" when everyone went out to have fun and to enjoy each others company.  Sure, everyone had to keep their sexual preferences hidden for fear of the police, but nowadays, you had to creep around to avoid the violent, name-calling youths would would very easily bash in your head with fist or pipes.<br /><br />To get the feel of spending the night with this group in the Rushes, author John Rechy tells the story in present time, allowing the reader to feel and to see what each character does as if he/she were with them.  Also, the chapters jump from character to character, almost giving the reader a sense of the darkness, the confusion and the electric atmosphere of the place.  A dark and engrossing look into the leather bar scene.n your head with fist or pipes. <br /> <br />To get the feel of spending the night with this group in the Rushes, author John Rechy tells the story in present time, allowing the reader to feel and to see what each character does as if he/she were with them.  Also, the chapters jump from character to character, almost giving the reader a sense of the darkness, the confusion and the electric atmosphere of the place.  A dark and engrossing look into the leather bar scene.	2005-04-03
US	52116450	RE4J8UD2VW8OM	0393325997	834559036	The Price of Salt, or Carol	Books	4	19	20	N	N	A beautifully told love story	Therese works as a shopgirl in a large department store as it prepares fro the Christmas rush.  But it's only a temporary job as she wants to become a set designer, with the help of contacts provided by her boyfriend Richard.  She's content but life with Richard isn't quite what she's looking for.  In fact, she's not sure what she needs until Carol, a handsome older woman, walks into her department to buy a doll for her daughter.  Therese manages to strike up a conversation with Carol and soon, they begin to see quite a bit of each other.  Their friendship changes while on a cross country trip and soon Therease and Carol must battle to keep their romance going despite the possible threat of Carol's husband and threats to keep her away from her daughter.<br /><br />This is a thought-provoking novel about coming out and trying to maintain a relationship that runs askew of societal norms.  Highsmith expertly tells the story from Therese's point of view, voicing her fears, opinions, thoughts so that as a reader, I felt as if I were taking part in the story.  It's also good at giving the reader a glimpse into how homosexuality was treated during the 1950's.  What I enjoyed most about this novel, though, is that the characters do not have the tragic ending common to gay/lesbian characters at the time; they have the possibility of continuing the relationship.  A refreshing change to novels of the time.	2005-03-31
US	52116450	RV585FLSNJLU7	1902852338	56518519	A Dangerous Thing	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A smart page-turner of a murder mystery novel	Writer Adrien English decides to take some time away from Los Angeles to copmlete his novel and to sort out his feelings for the hunky Detevtive Jake Riordan.  And what better place to do this than at the Pine Shadow Ranch in the Gold Rush Country, a place left to him by his Granna.  His plans start to take an ominous turn as he finds a dead body in the driveway.  When the local sheriffs finally turn up, the body's gone and their dislike of Mr. English isn't exactly hidden.  Adrien also discovers an archeological dig on his property - something he didn't authorize.  Do they have anything to do with the mysterious disappearing body?  He sets out to find the answers, with the help of Detective Jake who shows up unannounced, before someone makes him the next victim.<br /><br />This is a fast-paced, smart murder mystery with a well-thought-out story.  Lanyon has made very likeable, believable characters and created a very realistic relationship between the openly gay Adrien and the questioning Detective Jake which enhances the story instead of supplanting it.  For all fans of mysteries, this is a great one to add to you collection!	2005-03-20
US	52116450	R2HCFL5PYOXZNP	0060975881	189307324	Martin and John: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A unique look at a relationship in the time of AIDS	This is an interesting love story about a couple battling against AIDS.  John struggles to keep the relationship with the man he loves, Martin who is living with AIDS.  Martin, however, is bitter at the world for giving him the disease and at John for not having to suffer through his pains and mental anguish.  To get his own feelings out about Martin, AIDS, and the whole gay culture, John writes stories about what life may have been like with Martin if things were different: they meet as children; Martin as a rich philanthropist drawn to the naive John; Martin as a street hustler who meets John on his first visit to New York; and many others.  Each story reflects at what stage their real relationship is at.<br /><br />It's a unique look at love and relationships in the gay community in the face of AIDS.  But, I will admit that I wasn't sure what was going on; the real relationship of Martin and John is noted by italics, whereas John's stories remain in regular font/text.  Once I realized what was going on, the story was very much enhanced by this form of storytelling.  Dale Peck also has a knack for dealing with human emotions.  Nothing is cheap or wasted, and the actions and reactions fo the characters seem very realistic.  A great book!!!	2005-03-16
US	52116450	RWBLAY2P53CMU	0809012235	353665617	The Night Thoreau Spent in Jail: A Play	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Thoreau and non-violent protest against the government	While Thoreau was living at Walden, then President James K. Polk declared war on Mexico without Congressional approval. To protest this and the government, Thoreau refused to pay his taxes and was sent to jail. This play fantasizes on what might have been going through Thoreau's mind as he spent the night in jail: reflecting on his childhood, the life and death of his brother, his idol Ralph Waldo Emerson, what lead him to his solitary life at Walden and the impetus for his refusal to pay the taxes. I enjoyed reading this very much as it gave some insight into the great thinker who influenced the likes of Gandhi with his non-violent form of protesting the government.	2005-03-09
US	52116450	R3262JFF6DN31Y	0743456459	616788699	The Graduate	Books	2	10	16	N	N	Mediocre novel about a disillusioned young man	Benjamin Braddock comes home after his college graduation with offers for other schools and even a major scholarship to finish his studies.  Disillusioned with what the world may have in store for him, he spends most of his time lougning around his parent's pool not thinking about what to do with his future.  Then, in walks Mrs. Robinson at a party his parents are throwing in his honor, and by the end of the evening, he's begun an affair with her.  However, his disillusionment grows even more, and Ben finally decides that he's in love with Mrs. Robinson's daughter.<br /><br />None of the characters has any emotional depth so I wasn't attached nor could I empathize with any of them.  Ben Braddock comes across as a slacker who can't make his own decisions and won't even try; he's easily manipulated by everyone with whom he comes into contact.  So many times I wanted to reach into the novel and slap him for being such an educated idiot.  I didn't understand the motives behind any of his actions, and the author didn't try to give any clues about it, either.  The dialogue, instead of adding any emotional depth to the characters, comes across flat, unconvincing and sometimes confusing.<br /><br />I forced myself to finish this book, and if I hadn't been familiar with the movie, I probably wouldn't have picked this one up after reading a few pages at the bookstore.	2005-02-27
US	52116450	R339LUUIEX7A3E	0141180285	790543646	Myra Breckinridge/Myron (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Two unforgettable novels with one amazing, twisted character	MYRA BRECKINRIDGE moves to Hollywood in order to collect the inheritance left by her husband Myron. The one problem is Uncle Buck Loner who stands between her and the property - a profitable school for would be actors run by Buck. Myra is certain that everything will turn out her way, as she is the New American Woman. Every man wants her, but none may have her. However, there is a twist to Myra that will throw her plans into turmoil if anyone finds out.<br /><br />This is a darkly comic book with one of the most intriguing of characters in Myra Breckinridge. She is self-confidant (perhaps overly so), knows how to control and manipulate both men and women to fulfill her wishes, and determined not to let anything stop her. She is ready to change the world to suit her. In other words, a force to be reckoned with. I also liked that she patterned herself after movie heroines and relates to people as though they were characters in a movie, shown for her benefit.<br /><br />The novel itself is written as a series of diary entries, written by Myra as events happen. This gives an immediacy to the story and makes the reader feel as though he/she is a part of the action. The twist in the story is definitely a shocking one; I admit that it threw me for a loop. I can only imagine its impact when the book was published in 1968 with the sexual revolution just underway. An incredible book.<br /><br />MYRON: This sequel to \\"Myra Breckinridge\\" follows poor Myron as he battles against Myra, only this time they've somehow become stuck in the 1948 movie \\"Siren of Babylon.\\" It's a strange world, the Hollywood of 1948, and Myron tries frantically to return to 1973 and his beloved Richard M. Nixon while Myra has plans of her own to both bring back the glory of MG Studios by fixing \\"Siren\\" and to curb the human population growth by re-forming man in her image - strong, sterile Amazonian woman. Her one problem: Myron and how to keep him from escaping the film.<br /><br />It's a totally bizarre and wonderfully campy look at Hollywood of the 1940s but seen through the eyes of the 1970s. And, like its predecessor, is written in journal entries so you're in the action as it happens from the characters' perspectives. A great piece of fantasy fiction.otally bizarre and wonderfully campy look at Hollywood of the 1940s but seen through the eyes of the 1970s. And, like its predecessor, is written in journal entries so you're in the action as it happens from the characters' perspectives. A great piece of fantasy fiction.	2005-02-26
US	52116450	R37ICRCP2G3WWW	0394710150	332092709	Young Torless	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A dark and disturbing look at adolescence	Young Torless and his classmates study at a private boys' school in Austria.  He feels somewhat apart from the rest of his classmates, wondering what his place in the scheme of things is.  Then, two of his \\"friends\\" accuse another classmate of scheming and thievery, but instead of reporting it, they decide to take matters into their own hands.  Torless witnesses the sexual degradations through which the accused is placed, which only heightens Torless' need to understand things.  Unwittingly, he finds himself physically drawn to the accused boy, something which he is unable to comprehend but against which he is powerless.<br /><br />A dark and disturbing look at how adolescents learn about their place in the world through power, brutality and sexuality.  I was confused by parts of it, as the author threw in much psychoanalysis and delving into Kant which made it difficult to follow the story, reading more along the lines of an essay at times. The ending is dissatisfying and doesn't give any clear solution.	2005-02-20
US	52116450	R1YHCS1CTQ2BJH	0812504267	851220829	Billy Budd (Tor Classics)	Books	2	3	14	N	N	A  so-so tale of the sea	Billy Budd is a handsome, if slightly dense, young sailor aboard the sailing ship \\"Bellipotenet.\\"  The other sailors look up to and respect him because of his beauty and naivete.  All, that is, except for the master-at-arms John Claggart.  He has some kind of grudge against Billy and does his best to make life at sea rough for him.  When talk of mutinies is heard through the fleet, Claggart gets his cronies together to frame poor Billy Budd.<br /><br />It's not a bad novella, but Melville's language is almost too wordy to keep the reader focused on the story at hand and bogs down the pacing.  Maybe that has to do with the time period in which it was written, but I found myself re-reading passages just to make sure I knew what was going on.  Also, you're never really sure why Claggart is envious of Billy: his good looks?  the fact that the crew prefers him to Claggart?  he has a crush on him?  Ideas are hinted at, but nothing is ever made concrete.  I felt dissatisfied with the conculsion, too, but don't want to give any spoliers.  Overall, a so-so book.	2005-01-08
US	52116450	R1P26Y6OTTVTHA	0380728133	61850312	Bloodsucking Fiends: A Love Story	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Truly Unique Love Story With Bite	After being attacked the night before, Jody wakes up beneath a dumpster.  Her hand is burned and, surprsingly, she finds herself endowed with incredible strength and the ability to sense people's auras which leads her to the grim discovery that she is now a vampire.  Determined to find out who did this to her and why, she seeks out the help of a lonely young writer named C. Thomas Flood, newly arrived to San Francisco and trying to fend off the charms of his new Chinese roommates.  Together, Flood and his new love Jody scour the city to find the root of her problems before more bodies start to pile up.<br /><br /> From start to finish, I could not put this book down even while I was laughing out loud.  Strong, funny characters; a biting (no pun) wit; and an incredible story with great pacing make this one incredible read.  Author Christopher Moore re-works the traditional vampire story with a wonderful twist of two people falling in love and trying to understand how they fit into the world.  All that you know about vampires is put to the test, examined, re-examined and re-worked into a very readable and enjoyable tale.	2005-01-05
US	52116450	R3LTIOQ76N3BWB	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A powerful and disturbing novel	A man waiting at a traffic light suddenly goes blind for no apparent reason.  Not a dark blindness, but a unique whitening, as if looking at a blank movie screen.  Then, the man who helped him home goes blind and soon, more and more reports of sudden blindness are sweeping through the city.  The government, in an effort to stem this epidemic, confines the newly blind and those who have been in contact with them to a mental institution.  After a few days, the conditions become horrific, food becomes scarce, and baseness soon starts to grab hold of the internees.  One lone woman is witness to everything, waiting for her turn to become one of the blind, becoming the eyes for a small group of internees as they survive in this new whitened world.<br /><br />The sense of disorientation and loss caused by this inexplicable blindness comes across not only in his description of places and living conditions, but also in how everyone communicates.  Saramgo does not separate each character's speech into separate paragraphs, but has them run into one another in long, flowing paragraphs that confuse the reader, making him/her feel as though he/she is blind as well, not knowing who is speaking, only hearing voices.  The reader also sees society at its worst: an alarmist government, soldiers going off half-cocked for fear of being blinded themselves, communities in the grips of fear that turn against one another, the degradation the one human can cause another.<br /><br />The character of the Doctor's wife - the lone woman with sight - witnesses all these horrors, but still maintains a sense of what is right and wrong.  She remains the voice and eyes of reason, altruistically helping those in her ward to survive until the next day and the next.<br /><br />\\"Blindness\\" is a powerful and disturbing novel from author Jos&eacute; Saramago that shows the resiliency of the human spirit.  Things that we take for granted may suddenly disappear, but humanity can persevere and adapt in the face of such changes.  A wonderous reading experience.e of such changes.  A wonderous reading experience.	2004-12-19
US	52116450	R21J3LKBWMZH13	1400078741	767591657	McSweeney's Enchanted Chamber of Astonishing Stories	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An Interesting Collection of Literary Fiction	This new collection of stories, edited by Michael Chabon, aims to \\"reinvigorate the stay-up-all-night, edge-of-the-seat, fingernail-biting, page-turning tradition\\" (taken from the book's back cover) of literary short fiction.  For me, that was about half right.  Half the stories had me on the edge of my seat and didn't let up for a moment, such as \\"Lusus Naturae\\" by Margaret Atwood, \\"The Fabled Light-house at Vi&ntilde;a del Mar\\" by Joyce Carol Oates, and the astonishing \\"7C\\" by Jason Roberts (probably the best of the collection).  The other half seemed a bit unclear and left me wondering what I had just read.<br /><br />The collection includes some already well-known authors - Stephen King, Joyce Carol Oates, Peter Straub - and introduces some welcome newcomers (to me, anyway) - Ayelet Waldman, Jason Roberts, Roddy Doyle.  As a whole, this collection was hit and miss; however, the hits make it worth reading.	2004-12-05
US	52116450	R1MNNVSZY0ZGDD	0879977906	27114074	Red as Blood or Tales from the Sisters Grimmer	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Gothic re-tellings of classic fairytales	Tanith Lee provides a darker, more gothic feel to the classic fairytales we all know: Snow White is a creature of the night in \\"Red As Blood;\\" Little Red Riding Hood has meets a very different kind of wolf in \\"Wolfland;\\" Rapunzel's prince is more sinister in \\"The Golden Rope;\\" plus six othe re-tellings.  Each one takes place in a specific time and place on Earth, mostly in the past - with the one exception being \\"Beauty,\\" Lee's re-telling of Beauty and the Beast, set on Earth in the distant future.  Even thought the titles of the stories have changed, Lee makes it easy to figure out which story is being re-rold.  It's a bit too dark for children, but for fans of horror and gothic tales, this makes a great addition to your reading list.	2004-11-20
US	52116450	RP2946FOV7C6I	0441008631	306753329	The Telling	Books	3	4	8	N	N	A mediocre book from a great author	Sutty leaves Earth to become an Observer on the planet Aka.  Once there, she is disillusioned by the dystopian society that has done away with the planet's rich history.  Or so they think.  Her mentor, Tong Ov, finally gains the ability to allow one Observer to travel outside the limits of Dovza City to experience life outside the Corporation that controls daily life.  She travels to the village of Okzat-Ozkat and discovers a hidden oral tradition called The Telling and a small group of people that are trying to keep this \\"religion\\" alive while under the rule of the Corporation.<br /><br />While I enjoyed Le Guin's rich descriptions of the Telling, the villages, the scenery, her characters fell flat, coming across as very one-dimensional and never really developed.  I never empathized with Sutty and her feelings of supposed disbelief that what was once such a rich culture had, within the course of a few decades, obliterated its past; the same with the other characters.  I felt more as though I were sitting through a college lecture on culture, society and history.  The parallels between modern society and the fictional societal upheavlas on Aka are very clear and kept me interested in at least finishing the novel.  Not one of her best works, but it does give an interesting look into what could happen if we let things get out of control.	2004-11-15
US	52116450	RYMOR3LQZJ1LU	0393326101	850239428	The Year the Yankees Lost the Pennant	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The original "Damn Yankees"	The novel tells the story of Joe Boyd, a long-time fan of the Washington Senators who have the worst record in baseball.  One night after an incredibly bad loss, Joe decides to take a walk around the neighborhood and runs into the mysterious Mr. Applegate.  It turns out that Applegate has been keeping tabs on Joe and his Washington Senators and wants to offer Joe a proposition.  How would he like to watch his beloved Senators to win the 1958 pennant?  Not only watch, but even help the team by becoming their newest star player?  Reluctantly, Joe agrees but has Applegate write an escape clause into the contract.  Within a few days the old Joe Boyd is transfromed into the 21-year-old Joe Hardy and sets off on a whirlwind ride that moves the Senators up from 7th place to just within reach of the Yankees.<br /><br />Along the way, Joe begins to realize just what he's given up and what the ramifications are of his joining the team.  It's a heart-warming trip, both funny and sad, and delves into a passionate fan's view of the world of baseball.  So many temptations to stick with the game, and even stronger feelings tying him to his old life.  Until the gorgeous Lola steps into the picture to keep his mind off the old Joe.  Author Douglass Wallop's story keeps you enrapt and rooting for Joe and the Senators until the very end, never quite sure just what the outcome is going to be.  It's a unique, light-hearted twist on the tale of Faust with many great and wonderful characters.	2004-11-03
US	52116450	R27K3AN5YZB6H5	1575664186	273876040	Every Man For Himself	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A novel skewering how looks-oriented society can be	John Eames is HIV positive, but thanks to his doctor, he's been given a new lease on life.  The new cocktail has dropped his viral load to nearly invisible, and the steroids to counteract his low testosterone levels have certainly brought about a physical change.  Unaccustomed to his new role as the Hottie Next Door, all the attention goes to his head, and he leaves his partner Harrison in order to explore his new body.<br /><br />This novel focuses in on how looks-oriented and shallow the gay community can sometimes be.  We all want the perfect body, the perfect look and the attention those can bring; John's character has those same insecurities, and when given the opportunity to taste that section fo gay culture, he jumps right in.  But this new mindset changes him, brings out the worst in his personality.  He becomes catty and judgemental of others' looks and gets involved with drugs.  During this whole process, though, the novel also interjects with how important communication and mutual respect are in any relationship, and by the end, John has changed more than the steroids could ever have done.  I like that the main character grew and changed.<br /><br />The novel is fast-paced and well-written, and I feel it does a good job of getting into our insecurities about body image.	2004-10-31
US	52116450	R2N0OM8ZWO7HUQ	0345420713	844506996	Best Actress	Books	5	0	0	N	N	More backstabbing and bitchiness than "Dynasty"	Five interesting women are nominated for the \\"Best Actress\\" Oscar:  Fiona Covington, who portrayed a lesbian nanny in a re-telling of \\"Mary Poppins\\" and whose personal life just took a turn for the worse; Amber Lyons, the newcomer with a serious drug problem; Connie Travatano, the sentimental favorite whose run-ins with the law could be a problem; Lori Seefer, who desparately wants to keep her private life - and her lover Maria - a secret from the publicity hounds; and Karen Kroll, a known former porn star with a dirty little secret of her own.  All of these women want that statuette.  But only one is willing to kill for it.<br /><br />This is by far one of the cattiest, sharpest, most fun novel about the entertainment industry I have ever read!  It begins with the morning that the nominees are announced and from then on, it's a roller coaster ride into the personal lives of the 5 nominees.  It's chock full of nasty publicists, writers who will do anything to get a scoop, and enough bitchiness and backstabbing to put \\"Dynasty\\" to shame.  Author John Kane even has the characters interacting with the rich and famous like Goldie Hawn and Liza Minelli to keep things interesting.  He's also thrown in enough clues and red herrings to keep you guessing until the very end whodunnit.  This book is mindless entertainment, but it's so much fun!!!	2004-10-19
US	52116450	R1L2W0FQJB9EGH	1560234288	147383865	Elf Child	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A so-so gay romance/fantasy novel	Russ is a changeling, or elf child.  As a changeling, he will never grow old and has the ability to change his appearance to man, woman or beast.  He is also gay and trying to find love in modern day San Diego.  One night, while on a date, he runs into Eric who accidentally spills beer all over him.  Russ notices an immediate connection with him, and they soon start dating.  But Russ must keep his abilities a secret from Eric and that soon begins to take its toll on their relationship.<br /><br />Much is happening with this novel: the search for love and acceptance as a gay man, connecting your present with your past, the overly-image consciousness of some in the gay community.  But  I had a problem with the characters.  None of them displayed any emotional depth, made me empathize with them.  They went about their routines and too easily accepted everything that happened.  They came across as very one-dimensional.  Also, the genealogical connections were just a bit too coincidental which had me shaking my head as the story progressed.  This is a so-so novel that could use a bit more character development.	2004-10-11
US	52116450	R16GWRVNCBMGXN	0312022638	835816770	Nocturnes for the King of Naples	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A poetic novel about losing your one true love	An American, now living in Europe, creates an homage to his lover that he let slip away.  He reviews his life, from childhood and his unstable upbringing to the self-made end of his perfect relationship and on through the aftermath of various lovers in whom all he can see are aspects of his one true love.  through poetic use of language and masterful imagery, White has crafted a unique novel about what happens when you shut out the one person who means so much to you.<br /><br />It's by no means an easy read, and I admit that I had to re-start after 20 pages because I was trying to zip through such a short novel.  This novel deserves to be read slowly so that the words and images can make an impact on you, otherwise you will miss something.	2004-09-23
US	52116450	R3NNHS23ZPHHTA	0964109972	550539443	The Fancy Dancer: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A novel of the struggle between homosexuality and the Church	Father Tom Meeker relishes his work at the little parish in Cottonwood, MT, listening to confessions, participating with the church council, feeling grateful to spread God's word.  Then, a young Blackfoot Indian named Vidal Stump enters his confessional.  A bit wild in his ways and comfortable with his homosexuality, Vidal takes Father Tom on a journey of discovery and reveals to him what he's been trying to hide for a long time.<br /><br />\\"The Fancy Dancer\\" is by no means a tawdry tale of homosexual love.  The relationship between Father Tom and Vidal is played out very realistically, dealing not only with their interactions with others but with their inner struggles with themselves.  They truly do love each other in every sense of the word.<br /><br />Warren makes Father Tom's struggles to reconcile his new-found self, tinged by his own feelings guilt, with his love of the Church the center of the novel, revealing insight into the attitudes of the Church toward homosexuality.  Surprisingly enough for a novel from 1976, it is very relevant with the state of the world today.  And, what I really liked is that this is a positive novel, without the stereotypical ending with death or suicide.	2004-09-11
US	52116450	R3VPB3ONGFQCT4	0394702409	223172492	The Sibyl	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A fable about human and divine love	A troubled man tries to visit the Oracle at Delphi but is turned away by the priests.  Undaunted, he learns that a sibyl, or female prophet, is living in exile with her son somewhere in the mountains along the sacred path to the temple.  He finds her and begs that she listens to his tale and guide him along his path.  The stranger relates his story about a being cursed by the Christ to wander endlessly. In response, she tells her own story of becoming a pythia, or priestess of the Oracle at Delphi.<br /><br />The novel is a look into the meanings of love and faith and how humans try to reconcile themselves with the divine.  When the stranger is cursed because of his inhospitality, he's outraged and cannot understand why a god would do such a thing.  The sibyl sees both sides of her god, realizing that he is both good and evil, and accepts what happens.  And it's not preachy, trying to tell the reader that religion is the ultimate answer or that one religion is better than the other.  (I didn't feel as though someone was trying to convert me.)<br /><br />\\"The Sibyl\\" is an interesting and enjoyable novel.	2004-09-07
US	52116450	R3FU7702K1TXQ6	1880656353	535253253	365 Views of Mt. Fuji: Algorithms of the Floating World	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An interesting glimpse into art and Japanese culture	Yukawa is hired by Ichiro Ono of Ono Robotics to be the head curator of a new museum he is building to honor the 365 Views of Mt. Fuji painted by the artist Takenoko.  The problem is that Ichiro only owns one third of the paintings; the others are divided equally between his brother Gun, who runs a gay nightclub, and sister Akiko, who operated a ryokan (similar to a motel) which has been in the family for generations.  They haven't spoken in nearly 20 years so the task is placed upon Yukawa to gather all the paintings together.<br /><br />As Yukawa begins his task of cataloguing the views and trying to convince the others to loan them to the musuem, he tries to make an intimate connectionwith both the methodical Kumi (Ichiro's daughter) and the overprotected Haruna (Akiko's daughter).  Then, mysterious packages containing some of the views begin to arrive at his dorm room, his office, his car, and Yukawa is unwittingly drawn into the bizarre and secretive world of the Ono family.<br /><br />This is an intersting novel with a very good story.  The author Todd Shimoda has added a unique twist by inserting more stories which run concurrently with the main plotline into the margins of each page, to give character depth as well as background into the artist Takenoko.  While each of the characters is well-drawn and interesting, I felt that much of the extra info given was unnecessary and sometimes distracting.  The story itself is intriguing enough to keep you reading.	2004-08-23
US	52116450	R3VZOZKETIUIZ1	0312313691	302465668	The Year of Ice: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A powerful novel about a family tragedy and its consequences	It's 1978, and Kevin Doyle has a lot to deal with during his senior year.  His mother died two years ago in a car accident.  He earns margnial grades in school.  His relationship with his father Patrick is shaky at best.  And, he's in love with his classmate, Jon Thompson.  As the winter sets in, Kevin learns from his Aunt Nora a troubling secret about his parents' relationship which makes him question his mother's death.  At the same time, he's struggling to keep his desire for Jon a secret so that he can continue to fit in.<br /><br />\\"The Year of Ice\\" is a powerful novel of family tragedy, deep-seated secrets, and the inner struggle to put everything together and to understand what it means.  One critic termed the book a \\"bildungsroman,\\" a novel of growth from childhood to maturity, and that's exactly what happens with Kevin's character.  Through his eyes, we see his world and his beliefs shattered, but instead of succumbing, he learns from what he sees, his opinions about people change, and his vision of himself changes as he accepts who he is.<br /><br />This is a fantastic story told with just the right amount of humor and with strong characters with whom you can empathize.  A great book.	2004-08-17
US	52116450	RYF77DHSG0GI6	1400030374	362161209	The City and the Pillar: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A novel about idealized love and the harsh reality of it	Jim Willard spends a final weekend with his friend Bob Ford at a cabin before Bob heads off to sea, like they talked abouts.  They're very close friends, and during this weekend of horseplay and relaxation, Jim and Bob take it to the next level.  Before they leave the cabin, Jim promises to hook up with Bob once he's graduated.  A year later, and with the memory of that weekend at the cabin still floating through his mind, Jim sets off to find the elusive love of his llfe, going to see, becoming ensnared in the glitz of Hollywood, traveling to South America, but clinging to his love for Bob and never letting himself fall completely for any other men.<br /><br />This novel beautifully tells the story of a young man's search for the ideal person -- or who he thinks is the ideal -- one who is in tune with him in every way.  The characters are all well-written, and you really feel that you are right alongside Jim as he makes his way through the world.<br /><br />In the introduction, Vidal talks about how he re-wrote the entire book after its initial publication due to public reaction to the original, tragic ending.  The re-written ending, I feel, is much stronger and shows what happens when the ideal becomes tarnished in the idolizer's eyes. It's a remarkable book that discusses homosexuality in a very open way for a novel from 1945.  A thoroughly enjoyable read.	2004-08-12
US	52116450	R31KNNM3275WFO	0140181849	886771660	Three Lives (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	2	11	19	N	N	Not an easy book to read...or to like	In &quot;3 Lives,&quot; Gertrude Stein recounts the life stories of three very different women living and dying in the city Bridgepoint. With &quot;The Good Anna,&quot; we learn the story of a German maid, who maintains the homes of various grand ladies throughout her life. She loves taking care of stray dogs and scolding young ladies into what she deems to be their proper stations. She also cultivates a strong friendship with the widow Mrs. Lehntman, the great &quot;romance&quot; of her life. (Though, it's never entirely clear what is meant by &quot;romance:' either a very strong friendship or an actual intimate relationship.)<br /><br /> In &quot;Melanctha,&quot; we are related the history of a young black woman, bright and intelligent, who wants to learn more about life and love. She develops relationships with many different men but learns most of what she needs during her &quot;wanderings&quot; with Jane Harden. After a time, she finally decides to settle down and to get &quot;really married&quot; to the right man. She thinks she finds that in Dr. Jeff Campbell, but neither one knows exactly what he/she really wants.<br /><br /> In the final story, &quot;The Gentle Lena,&quot; Lena is a young German girl, brought to the States by a cousin. She is considered ugly and dimwitted so no one in her new family really takes to her. All the girls taunt and tease her. Finally, she is et up in an arranged marriage to a man who doesn't really like women (though it's never said flat out whether or not he is gay). They have children, and the husband falls for the children, ignoring Lena completely.<br /><br /> All three women wind up alone, forgotten and eventually dead. But, that's not what I really didn't like about this book. Stein's use of language tended to get in the way, so much so that I could never really understand what characters were saying and could never empathize with them. In fact, with &quot;Melanctha,&quot; their constant repetition of names and long-winded sentences that turn around on themselves to regurgitate what was said in the preceding sentences, made the characters seem simple-minded. I never liked any of the characters because I never felt that I was given anything to like. And, if I was, I had trouble discerning it through the tangle of words. I re-read passages many times simply to try to understand what was happening or what a character was feeling/thinking and never really understood. They came across very two-dimensional.<br /><br /> I forced myself to finish the book but still would have trouble recommending it, mostly due to the use of language.sentences that turn around on themselves to regurgitate what was said in the preceding sentences, made the characters seem simple-minded. I never liked any of the characters because I never felt that I was given anything to like. And, if I was, I had trouble discerning it through the tangle of words. I re-read passages many times simply to try to understand what was happening or what a character was feeling/thinking and never really understood. They came across very two-dimensional.<br /><br /> I forced myself to finish the book but still would have trouble recommending it, mostly due to the use of language.	2004-08-01
US	52116450	R3PMQLG2INPR8I	0964109964	315138860	The Front Runner: A Novel	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A remarkably honest protrayal of a gay relationship	Harlan Brown is an ex-Marine and a track coach.  In 1974, after he is dismissed from Penn State due to rumors of an alleged homosexual romance with one of his athletes, Harlan finds himself as the track coach at Prescott, a smaller university which he discovers is a more diverse than any other school in the country.  Harlan's coaching life is thrown into turmoil when three young track athletes, kicked out of another university for their openness about their sexuality, want to join his team.<br />One of the athletes, Billy Sive who looks to be a contender for the Montr&eacute;al Olympics, piques his interest, and Harlan soon finds himself falling for the young man.  Billy begins to have the same feelings for Harlan.  Once they admit their feelings, they form a strong, positive relationghip face together the fear and hatred of the athletic world and society, determined to give Billy his shot at a gold medal.<br />First published in 1974, this became a national bestseller.  Patricia Nell Warren's depiction of two gay athletes in the 1970s is filled with so much that's positive about being gay: Harlan and Billy form a strong, monogamous relationship and don't hide it from the rest of the world.  (They also don't flaunt it.)  They tackle many issues that gay men and women are struggling with today: gay marriage, children, gay rights.  The novel also handles the societal negatives regarding homosexuality with much humanity and empathy.  You can either run and hide from it, or you can stare it down, be happy with yourself.<br />I also liked the characters.  Harlan has only recently come out and is trying to deal with his feelings and jealousies along with his memories of the past and society.  Billy is calm, confident, knows who and what he is and is determined that no one is going to keep him from what makes him happy.  The two of them together make a great and very realistic couple.<br />While it is a gay novel, it's also a sports novel.  Warren was a long-distance runner herself and draws from her experiences to give a realistic view of the amateur sports world, especially when it comes to the politics of jsut being able to compete.  It's a world that I found very intriguing and want to learn more about.<br />This is a remarkable book, one that should be read by everyone, gay and straight.rself and draws from her experiences to give a realistic view of the amateur sports world, especially when it comes to the politics of jsut being able to compete.  It's a world that I found very intriguing and want to learn more about.<br />This is a remarkable book, one that should be read by everyone, gay and straight.	2004-07-19
US	52116450	R3N8JPVPB9EZJV	0452260159	932536365	The Family of Max Desir	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A story about family dealing with death and acceptance	Max Desir comes from an old Italian family, but his parents left the old country and made a new home for themselves in New Jersey.  As he grows up, Max discovers his own preference for men, but nothing ever becomes too serious.  Until he meets Nick during a trip through Italy.  They live together for a few months in Rome, then move back to the U.S. when they decide it's time to settle down.<br />John, Max's father, doesn't take to the idea that his son is a homosexual; his mother, Marie, accepts her son and acts as a buffer between the two.  But after 15 years of keeping them civil, she succumbs to cancer, and John struggles to accept both Max and Nick while dealing with the loss of his Marie.<br />This is a beautiful story about a family dealing with old values, acceptance and death.  The character of Max is one of the strongest I've read, and I emapthized with him.  I could feel his anger and confusion, his sense of loss, his struggle to be accepted and to have Nick accepted by his father as part of the family.  Very realisitc, too, in its rendering of the family and how it reacts to obstacles placed in its way.  No shiny, happy ending but no sterotypically tragic one, either.	2004-07-14
US	52116450	R1Z4ADSCULJ2HL	1400034892	67032149	The Song of Names	Books	4	31	33	N	N	A novel intertwining the world of music with pre-War london	Martin Simmonds, the President ad Owner of Simmonds Ltd. (a music publishing company), has been asked to judge a music festival in the small town of Tawburn.  He hears nothing remarkable until one young player - a violinist - plays a certain rubato, one that reminds Martin of the young man who stayed with his family in London, pre-WWII.  The young man was a virtuoso, showing great promise but disappeared from Martin's family and from the world mysteriously, on the day of his debut performance.<br />What follows in Norman Lebrecht's &quot;The Song of Names,&quot; is a story of remembrance and devotion.  With that one rubato, Martin travels back in time, to when his father took in the promising young violinist, Dovidl Rapoport, while his father returned to Warsaw to protect his family.  He remembers all the devotion the two shared and the pain that was caused to him and his family upon Dovidl's disappearance.  The grown-up Martin begis a search for Dovidl, forcing both of them to face up to their pasts.<br />The characters are very well-defined and believable.  Plus, Lebrecht's descriptions of life in pre-War London from a child's perspective are quite remarkable.  You really feel as though you are biking through the streets with the two young boys or watching the Germans warplanes flying over London.  He also gives the reader insight into the different sects of the Jewish community in both the past and the present.<br />Overall, I found this book to be quite an enjoyable read and recommend it highly.	2004-07-04
US	52116450	R3UF7XICFDQBFQ	0575071125	572133449	The Wanderer	Books	5	5	10	N	N	A wonderful sci-fi/disaster book	While everyone's eyes are turned to the skies to watch a lunar eclipse, a planet appears out of nowhere.  At first, people are intersted in this new planet, then the devastating earthquakes and tidal changes begin as the Wanderer, as many have named the planet, begins threatening the Moon.<br />This engrossing novel catalogs the catastrophic events following the Wanderer's appearance through the eyes of many people instead of focusing on just on small group.  From the saucer students, gathered on a California beach near Vandenburg 2 to watch the eclipse, to a treasure hunter in the waters off Vietnam, to a man crossing the Atlantic on a small boat and a cruise liner being hijacked off the coast of South America, and even to a few astronauts on the Moon.  The author Fritz Leiber does't just give an anecdotal visit to each; he returns to them, keeps their storylines going so that the reader gets mutliple viewpoints of the same events.  This is especially effective when the saucer students on Earth watch what the Wanderer does to the Moon, while the astronauts on the Moon live through the experience.  It keeps reminding you that the events have a global impact.  Plus, Leiber's descriptions are rich and detailed, even with some hand drawn illustrations showing the phases of the Wanderer.<br />Full of rich descriptions and great characters, this is a very entertaining sci-fi novel.	2004-06-26
US	52116450	R3AT1U24BGS86G	0679744738	350714761	Nobody Knows My Name	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great esssays from one of America's best authors	This collection of essays show James Baldwin as he strives to figure out who he is as a writer, as an American and as a black man.  Beginning with his self-imposed exile to Paris in the 1950's, he calls his own identity as both a black man and an American into question.  The Conference of Negro-African Writers and Artists which met in 1956 showed him just how different Europeans and Africans viewed cultural identity and hinted at ostracizing the American contingent.  And he felt distinctly American in that crowd.  Through his essays about returning to Harlem, his criticisms of William Faulkner (&quot;Faulkner and Desegregation&quot;), his review of a work by Andr&eacute; Gide, his dealings with author Richard Wright, his friendship with author Norman Mailer (&quot;The Black Boy Looks At the White Boy&quot;), and his interview with Swedish director Ingmar Bergman, Baldwin displays his own feelings at finding his own identity as both man and writer in a world that tries to both accet and to reject him at the same time.<br />Powerful essays from one of America's best authors.	2004-06-18
US	52116450	R3WD3LMP7SKYU	0486400565	956060839	The Moonlit Road and Other Ghost and Horror Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Imaginative stories from a great writer	This contains only a small sampling of author Ambrose Bierce's work with ghost and horror stories.  Most are the ghost sotries we are used to with vengeful spirits or loved ones trying to connect to the world of the living, but have just the right little twist to make them unique.  In &quot;The Middle Toe of the Right Foot,&quot; for example, what starts out as a duel in an empty house ends up with the death of a duelist by the ghosts that inhabit the palce and recognize him.  Other stories deal with man's own fear of the unknown, such as in &quot;The Man and the Snake&quot; or &quot;A Watcher of the Dead,&quot; in which the characters literally scare themselves to death.  The most unique story in this collection, though, is the last one titles &quot;Moxon's Master,&quot; which gives a dealy warning about the progress fo man and machine.  These are all great tales to read aloud by the campfire and are sure to send just the right amount of chills down your spine.	2004-06-18
US	52116450	R2022JGK2JMXK1	0786703652	837192300	The Collected Ghost Stories of E.F. Benson	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Classic ghost stories from a master storyteller	E.F. Besnson, the son of an Archibishop of Canterbury, is a master of the ghost story.  This collection contains stories of troubled spirits, both good and evil; s&eacute;ances; vampires; the occult; curses; ancient gods; etc.  All of them show off his remarkable talent for creating an eerie atmosphere and realistic characters, as well as his knowledge of the spirit world, especially with the last entry &quot;The Recent 'Witch-Burning' at Clonmel,&quot; an article he wrote for a magazine which describes primitive exorcism practices.<br />One thing I most enjoyed about his stories is that even though the subject matter can become tiresome, Benson interjects enough new twists and types of spirits and other creature to make them feel new and unique.  With &quot;Caterpillars,&quot; for example, involving an empty bedroom in which someone passed away from cancer, Besnon creates a materialization of the disease in such a creepingly disgusting way that you are repulsed and entranced at the same time.  Fortunately,  all the stories are classics that are sure to enthrall any ready and to keep them up until the early hours, wanting to read just one more story.	2004-05-30
US	52116450	R35I1PK61QI032	0553212540	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray and Other Writings (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	31	34	N	N	A classic novel about the gift of eternal youth	Basil Harwood talks to his friend, Lord Henry Wotton, about his latest painting, a portrait of a striking young man named Dorian Gray to whom he has taken quite a fancy.  He feels that his art has never been alive as it has since meeting this young man.  Intrigued at his friends acute interest, Lord Henry determines to meet the young man himself, and quite by chance, manages to remain in the studio as Dorian arrives and stands for the finishing touches to his portrait.<br />Once it is completed, Lord Henry comments on how youthful the painting is, remarking how unfortunate it is that the portrait will always remain as young as on the day it was painted, whereas Dorian will slowly age, losing his youth and looks to time.  Dorian frets over this and says that he would give anything if only his portrait would age instead of him.<br />Weeks later, after an unfortunate scene with his fianc&eacute;e, Dorian notices a subtle change to his portrait, a certain cruel turn of the lips.  As the days pass, he notices more changes and begins to realize that he can commit every vice and cruelty imaginable without any harm coming to him.  His portrait will bear the brunt of his adventures.  But at what price?  As the years pass, he begins to wonder about the state of his very soul and if he can change, perhaps bring the portrait back to its original beauty.<br />This is a great novel, dealing for the most part with man's quest for eternal youth.  Who wouldn't want to stay young forever?  We go through fad diets, gyms, botox, plastic surgery -- all in the name of trying to remain healthy and youthful.  Dorian is given a unique opportunity, the consequences of which show him the havoc that all the vices and cruel acts have upon his soul (or his conscience).  We also get to see how getting what you wish for doesn't always turn out the way you thought it would.<br />It's a well-written story, full of unique characters. The majority of the male characters seem to have no problem whatsoever having intimate relationships with other men.  By his actions, Basil appears to be in love with Dorian.  Dorian, in turn, is infatuated with Lord Henry, even thought both of them do have relationships with women (for Dorian, a fianc&eacute;e; for Lord Henry, a wife).  There's even a bit of jealousy on the part of Lord Henry's wife when she finally meets the man who's been monopolizing her husband's time.<br />At times, though, it does move slowly due to long passages discussing the place of art in society and philosphizing about the quest for youth and beauty.  In these passages the text seems to turn more into a lecture rather than a novel.  That, however, does not take away from the enjoyment of the novel.having intimate relationships with other men.  By his actions, Basil appears to be in love with Dorian.  Dorian, in turn, is infatuated with Lord Henry, even thought both of them do have relationships with women (for Dorian, a fiance; for Lord Henry, a wife).  There's even a bit of jealousy on the part of Lord Henry's wife when she finally meets the man who's been monopolizing her husband's time.<br />At times, though, it does move slowly due to long passages discussing the place of art in society and philosphizing about the quest for youth and beauty.   In these passages the text seems to turn more into a lecture rather than a novel.  That, however, does not take away from the enjoyment of the novel.	2004-05-27
US	52116450	RFPKANCRKUDF4	0886773520	42355391	Magic's Pawn (The Last Herald-Mage Series, Book 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A good mix of fantasy and gay romance	Young Vanyel would rather be a bard, playing his lute and performing for the courts, much to the chagrin of his father Lord Withen.  So infuriated is Withen that after Vanyel is almost beaten to death by the armsmaster Jervis, he sends him to train under his Aunt Savil, a Herald-Mage at the court of Valdemar.<br />Savil doesn't really know what to do with Vanyel, either.  Somewhat vain, ill-mannered and continuously broding, even the other bards and mages don't feel that he has the right gifts.  Savil feels that something is keeping Vanyel from showing his true self.  When her herlad-mage trainee, the handsome Tylendel, spies Vanyel and falls for his beautiful looks almost immediately, she allows Tylendel to get closer to Vanyel, hoping to pull him out of his shell.<br />Vanyel soon finds himself falling for Tylendel, now that he's aware of the world around him, the world that Withen tried to keep from him.  But events take a tragic turn, and soon Vanyel's untapped herald-mage gifts are ripped open.  Unable to control his new gifts, Savil takes him away to heal and to learn self-control, but daner lurks in the near future. Something is hunting young Vanyel, through his tortured nightmares and into reality.<br />I found this to be an enjoyable book to read.  Very descriptive and the characters are very likable.  With the exception of Vanyel.  For a main character, he's too depressing and filled with self-loathing that I wanted the author to get rid of him.  (Bad thing, since he's the driving force of the book.)  I felt the book lingered too much on those aspects of him, making the book feel sluggish at first.  Once Vanyel and Tylendel begin their romance, however, the pace picks up and makes for a fine book, filled with action, magic, interesting and amazing creatures, and just a good story.	2004-05-24
US	52116450	RRRC3R05O9MXD	0809069539	757943844	Modern Medea: A Family Story of Slavery and Child-Murder from the Old South	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A true story of slavery and infanticide	In February 1857, slave Margaret Garner fled from her master Archibald Gaines's Kentucky plantation.  She, her husband Robert, his parents, and their four children crossed the frozen Ohio River in Cincinnati, hiding out in the cabin of one of Margaret's cousins, a free black.  Gaines quickly trailed them to the cabin, and, in one quick moment, Margaret picked up a knife and killed one of her children, not wanting any of them to go back into slavery.<br />In &quot;Modern Medea,&quot; author Steven Weisenburger uses court documents, newspaper stories and other sources from the time to examine this almost-forgotten trail that challenged the 1850 Fugitive Slave Law.  We follow along with the entire trial, seeing all the tricks that both defense and prosecution lawyers used to either bring a quick end to proceedings or to protract them in order to keep the Garners on free soil.  The trail also gives us an interesting look into politics, the pro-slavery mindset, abolitionism view, and the media perception and bias of the time.<br />What I found most interesting about this book is that the trial to determine whether or not the Garner's were still the property of Archibald Gaines took precedent over the charge of infanticide.  The outcome would have a profound effect not only on state's rights but would spark a tiny flame leading up to the American Civil War.  And even after the trial was concluded, the media, poets such as Elizabeth Barret Browning, and other authors used the events to add fuel to the ever-growing debate on slavery.<br />But, it still remains a little-known trial, falling into the dust of history in part due to public &quot;whitening&quot; of the events and to the events of the Dred Scott decision almost a year later.  Yet author Toni Morrison helped to revive interest in this trial by modeling one of the characters in her novel &quot;Beloved&quot; after the ghost of Margaret's slain daughter, Mary.<br />The book sometimes reads more like a college text and asks many questions that are never answered.  But the amount of information surrounding the trial and concerning the battle of state's rights versus federal law make this a great book to read.t and asks many questions that are never answered.  But the amount of information surrounding the trial and concerning the battle of state's rights versus federal law make this a great book to read.	2004-05-16
US	52116450	RH32MTXE84CJ2	031226268X	278357166	Warmly Inscribed: The New England Forger and Other Book Tales	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A charming book about books and collecting	Authors Lawrence and Nancy Goldstone are also book collectors and, in &quot;Warmly Inscribed,&quot; they share their experiences in the used, rare and antiquarian book world.  The tales are charming and anecdotal, filled with their love of books, and come across very conversationally, as if you were chatting with them over coffee instead of reading their adventures in a book.  Also, it makes that particular world seem less stuffy and very accessible to everyone.<br />Each chapter shares a small bit of the vast world of books and booklore, from the first chapter that deals with the immense colleciton of the Library of Congress (as well as their lovable eight-year-old daughter Emily and a missing teddy bear) to the true story of the New England forger Ken Anderson who created quite a to-do with the Antiquarian Booksellers' Association of America.  Plus, they give much of the history of books, bookfairs, and even a glimpse into the life of writer Max Beerbohm.<br />This is a wonderful book to read, whether you're into book collecting or not.	2004-05-09
US	52116450	R3KOO5RMNUY7AH	0312108133	322759148	Oroonoko; or, The Royal Slave (Bedford Cultural Editions)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A surprising anti-slavery novel from the 17th century	Young Oroonoko, a Prince of Surinam, falls in love with a beautiful young maid named Imoinda.  but unbeknownst to Oroonoko, his grandfather the King also has designs on the young maid.  While the Prince is away, the King sends his vail to Imoinda, a sign that he wants to bed her.  She reluctantly goes and staves off all his advances, professing her love for Oroonoko.<br />Upon his return, Oroonoko learns what happened to his love and finds her at the King's seraglio.  they share a night together, but when the King finds out, he sells Imoinda as a slave, telling Oronooko that she died.<br />Despondent, Oroonoko is tricked by a British captain and becomes a slave.  Taken to a new land, he accidently discovers his true love Imoinda and determines to escape the bonds of slavery no matter what it takes.<br />This story deals with true love and is probably one of the first novels to deal with the issue of slavery -- even though it wasn't a hotbed issue during the 1680's.  The characters are very well-defined, either incredibly good or monstrous, even though they sometimes act more over-the-top or overly dramatic than normal.  Oroonoko himself is even based upon a real prince that Behn had met from Surinam.  It does take a bit to get used to the lingo and word usage of the 17th century, but I found myself seriously enjoying the story.	2004-05-08
US	52116450	RYI0GR5YCP9IU	0452270162	242699675	The Destiny of Me: A Play in Three Acts	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A strong play about AIDS and self-acceptance	Ned Weeks's lover died almost 10 years ago from complications of AIDS, and now, Ben has learned of his own infection with the disease.  Being an activist in the fight to bring national attention and funding to the seriousness of AIDS, he reluctantly (and clandestinely) checks himself into the very hospital against which his group has been protesting and the same doctor who has been the target of his activism.<br />Feeling that his life is slipping away, Ned confronts his doctor about the lack of progress in AIDS research, the seemingly useless treatments and the lack of participation from the government.  At the same time, he tries to sort out his life, confronting his younger self, Alexander, as he begins to notice that he's different from everyone.  Alexander juggles this with his dislike of his father, his idol worship of his brother Ben, his love for his mother and society's visions of homosexuality.<br />This is a strong and moving play, both about how far research and activism have come in finding a cure and about dealing with family while trying to accept your own feelings.  Ned is a very realistic character, and somewhat autobiographical, as Mr. Kramer draws heavily upon his own life and experiences.  The interplay between past and present is interesting to read, though sometimes a bit confusing.  I think a live performance of this play would bring a better understanding of this technique.  But, as a follow-up to &quot;The Normal Heart,&quot; this is a marvelous play.	2004-05-02
US	52116450	R32VHT5S2C0VIB	0932870163	420507638	Quatrefoil	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A classic gay novel about self-acceptance	In the summer of 1946, just after the end of WWII, Philip Froelich heads from Oregon to Amphib Island in Seattle to undergo the proceedings for a General Court Martial.  Missing the bus, he manages a ride with another officer, an older, handsome gentleman who has been watching him at the bus station.  Philip relaxes a bit too much along the drive and wakens to find himself cradled against the driver.<br />Unnerved, Philip quickly gets away from the officer once they reach Amphib Island.  Later in the day as he meets with the officer handling his case, he is introduced to the officer from the car, Commander Tim Danelaw, and something stirs inside of him, something he struggles to keep hidden.  Danelaw notices something of Philip's true nature and takes him under his wing, hoping to guide him to understanding and acceptance of who he is.  Danelaw knows that Philip will only truly be happy once he has accepted himself.  Otherwise, his life will be a miserable one.<br />But, Philip is being groomed to take over the family bank, one of the most successful in Oklahoma.  Certain ideals have been set upon him and are fixed into his being.  Yet, he knows that deep down, he has feelings for Tim Danelaw but must keep them hidden both for his family and for his place in society.<br />\\"Quatrefoil\\" is a great novel dealing with self-acceptance.  Philip's character grows and changes from the confused, somehwat closed-minded boy at the beginning to a man who understands himself and what makes life happy for him.  He's learned, thanks to Danelaw, how to balance his public life and his private life.  It also gives a positive look at homosexuality in the 1940's without being tawdry and preachy.	2004-04-29
US	52116450	R2O1X2Z8Z1FFSC	0345446550	313039462	The Hole	Books	2	2	3	N	N	A promising story with a bait-and-switch ending	Five young classmates agree to be locked for three days in a cellar, which they refer to as &quot;the hole,&quot; located beneath a seldom-used school building.  Masterminded by a sixth classmate, Martyn -- known around school for his stunning pranks -- he's set the five up for more than they bargained for.  After the three days, Martyn doesn't appear, then the water and electricity stop.  The five begin to realize that they may never leave the whole.  Or is there more to Martyn and this &quot;prank&quot; than they were lead to believe?<br />&quot;The Hole&quot; starts a well-crafted story that slowly builds its suspense through both the story of the five in the hole and through remembrances from a survivor.  But, just when I found the conclusion to be very satisfying, an epilogue is thrown in that tossed in many confusing new questions about the reliability of the survivor and the veracity of the events I'd just read.  If this ending had been hinted at throughout the book, I probably would have found the epilogue more palatable than I did.  Instead, I felt cheated and disappointed.	2004-04-13
US	52116450	R36F5QJ4IISCZ7	0684829924	599604173	Dream Boy: A Novel	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A good story with a confusing ending	Nathan and his family recently moved into a farm house outside of town -- yet another in a long series of moves.  From his window, he sometimes watches the neighbor's son, Roy, who goes to the same school and drives the school bus.  One day Roy surprises him sits with him at lunch, beginning an interesting friendship that quickly turns into love.<br />While Nathan is sure of himself, Roy is confused and needs to keep their intimacy hidden from the rest of the school, especially from his girlfriend.  The relationship is put to the test through a series of events starting with Nathan's father and his unmentionable past and culminating with a violent display at an abandoned house in the Kenicutt Woods.<br />&quot;Dream Boy&quot; is a well-written story about the two young boys dealing with their growing love for one another.  Grimsley manages to get the emotions of both characters just right, from Roy's need for secrecy to Nathan's painful memories of his father.  The scenes involving the abandoned house were especially effective, with the dark and eerie atmosphere paralleling the mindset of Roy, Nathan and the other two boys, Randy and Burke, who are with them.<br />The only fault I find is with the last 10 chapters.  They created a very confusing ending for me, and the novel lost some of its believability.  I found myself re-reading the (short) chapters again just to make sure what I read was correct.<br />Still, Grimsley's characters are very strong and fleshed out, and the story of a painful first love is worth reading.	2004-04-06
US	52116450	R1Y4MB1EZVDF76	006039384X	776351801	Mirror Mirror: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	An entertaining re-telling of a classic fairytale	When Vincente de Bevada requested some land from Cesare and Lucrezia Borgia, little did he know the price they would demand of him.  When they arrived years later at his home of Montefiore, Cesare demanded an almost impossible task: to retrieve a branch from the Tree of Knowledge that still bears three perfect apples.  With threats to his home and family, Vicente reluctanly agreed, leaving his daughter Bianca in the care of Lucrezia.<br />As the years passed, Cesare became enchanted with the young Bianca, much to the dismay of his sister, Lucrezia.  In a fit of jealousy, she hired a huntsman to take Bianca into the woods to get rid of her so beginning Gregory Maguire's unique spin on the Snow White story.<br />It's filled with all the things that everyone already knows about Snow White: the magic mirror, a poisoned apple, the seven dwarfs (though they aren't the cute ones from the movie).  Yet, Maguire has set them in a real place, 16th century Italy, with real historical figures playing major roles, such as Lucrezia Borgia as the great wicked-stepmother-type.  She's perfect inthe part, especially with the notorious background of the Borgias.  It reads almost as if it were a real chapter in the Borgia history.<br />I found the story incredibly entertaining and didn't want to put the book down once I began.  Taking a well-known story and making it new is a difficult task which Maguire handles with ease, much like in his other works.  A fine and entertaining book.	2004-04-03
US	52116450	R2UQXE4DDAL53M	0802135226	79903283	The Passion	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A captivating story	&quot;The Passion&quot; is a story concerning two disparate people during Napoleon's invasion of Moscow.  The first is Henri, a soldier who's almost overwhelming passion for Napoleon (bordering on obsessoin) and what he stands for has lead him to the cold regions of Russia.  Tired of serving as Napoleon's personal servant and of the senseless battles, he decides to desert the army.<br />The other is Villanelle, the daughter of a Venetian boatman.  After her passion for a rich woman of the city dissipates, she loses her freedom in a gambling game and finds herself being bartered to the men of the city.  She escapes and makes her way to the cold Russian lands where she meets Henri.  Together, they set off on the journey home.  Along the way, Henri learns what price passion exacts from people as his feelings for Villanelle lead him down a treacherous path.<br />Full of wonderfully drawn characters, vivid descriptions, a captivating story, and even a touch of the magical, Jeannette Winterson's fine novel is definitely one worth reading.	2004-03-29
US	52116450	R2O0MGMKLI0I88	0060088907	614611577	The Ides of March: A Novel	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A unique historical novel of the last year of Julis Caesar	I think most people know the story of Julius Caesar's death: stabbed 23 times on March 15th during a session of the Senate.  What Thornton Wilder has done with his novel is to give the reader a glimpse in to the human side of Caesar, through journal entries and correspondence from him and those surrounding him.  We learn of the statesman, who tries his best to govern his people; of his &quot;divinity&quot; and his tolerance of the belief in gods and goddesses; of the family man living in a tepid marriage with his wife Pompeia; and of his attraction to intellectuals, whether if be the poet Catullus, whose poetry he highly regards even if it mocks him, and the beautfiul Egyptian Queen Cleopatra, whom he considers almost an equal in terms of ability to rule.  Wilder also lets us in on public opinion concerning the Dictator, as Caesar was also known, through intercepted correspondence of Clodia Pulcher and others.  Caesar becomes more of a human figure in the hands of Wilder.  He has his foibles and his share of indecisions, just like any other person.  He also tries to do what he believes to be the right thing in terms of treating others.  A unique historical novel.	2004-03-26
US	52116450	R230SQZPS04I3F	0060561785	198808639	Let's All Kill Constance	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A msytery surrounding old Hollywood told by a master writer	One dark, stormy night in Venice, California, a writer's worked is interrupted when Constance Rattigan, a glamorous movie star of old Hollywood, shows up on his doorstep.  Frightened by something following her, she gives the writer two books and disappears.  The books are phone registers of old Hollywood, filled with names of stars long dead or waiting to die.  Some of the names have been circled and marked with a red cross, including hers.  The writer enlists the aid of his friend Crumley and sets off on a trek through Hollywood haunts and memories to save Constance.<br />This is a marvelous mystery, filled with images both real and ethereal, as only Ray Bradbury can conjure them.  Hollywood becomes a mysterious and magical place, filled with secrets waiting to be discovered.  And, in the midst of these images, he tells the story of a glamorous actress from old Hollywood trying to get away from memories of the past.  The characters all have a certain quirkiness about them that makes them fit seamlessly into the novel, whether it's Crumley the faithful friend; Henry, the blind man who used to search old cemeteries with the writer; or the writer himself, nameless but makes you wonder through sublte hints if you actually know him.<br />It's a fast-paced book that I couldn't put down once I started.  I felt as if I were right in the thick with the characters as they searched for Constance.  Few books can really do that, in my opinion, and this is one of the best.	2004-03-24
US	52116450	RDWBS1VN8Y01V	1563332639	133711957	Gaudy Image	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A novel about the search for an idealized love	Titania (a.k.a. Thomas Schwartz) moves to New Orleans hoping to find his dream man: the Gaudy Image.  He's an idealized sort, with dark, curly hair, very masculine, well-built and still likes to put out.  The image is also a remembrance of Robert, the first boy with whom he had any kind of physical relationship.  Through the bars, clubs and backstreets of 1950's New Orleans, we follow Titania on his quest, meeting friends and acquaintances, until he finally meets Pelvis, whom he hopes to be the one.<br />At the beginning of the novel, it's a bit confusing as to what is going on: who's the main character, what's the story about, etc.  However, once things are clearly established, the story of a gay man searching for his idealized match snares you and keeps you hooked through the very end.  The characters are wonderfully drawn and really give you a glimpse into the homosexual hierarchy of the times, with everyone calling each other she, stereotyping members of their own community (Pelvis is considered Old Pelvis; Sir Denis is fat (and proud of it) which, in the book, makes him less desirable; Burnished Rose is a Queen well beyond her reign) like a caste system, accepting nothing but the idealized image of the perfect man.  I found it interesting that none of the charactes uses his real name, instead choosing or being given an identity and, in effect, creating their own world in which to live.<br />\\"The Gaudy Image\\" is a very good novel both as a story and as a look into gay culture.  A great book.	2004-03-17
US	52116450	R22CFO3MXB5Y0V	067978361X	339675227	In the Land of White Death: An Epic Story of Survival in the Siberian Arctic	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A true account of survival in the Siberian Arctic	The Russian exploration vessel, the Saint Anna, set sail in 1912 to search for hunting grounds in the North Polar region.  Within a few months, the crew of 33 had become icebound and spent the next year and a half trapped in the ice, drifting farther and farther North.  In 1914, the navigator, Valerian Albanov, decided to risk a trek across the ice with the hope of reaching Franz Josef Land.  13 crewmen set off across the ice, with the remaining 20 choosing to stay on board the ship.  Of the 13 crewmen, only two survived.<br />\\"In the Land of White Death\\" is the true account of the trek, as written by Valerian Albanov.  Starting with the few days before leaving, he writes a remarkable story of survival in severely cold conditions, with supplies diminishing and morale quickly ebbing.  It is very detailed with its discriptions not only of the terrain, but of the crew and their physical and mental states throughout the journey.<br />Translator David Roberts also includes in his epilogue some of the text from the other survivor of the journey, crewman Alexander Konrad.  His take on certain events sheds a whole new lights on certain aspects of their voyage across the ice.<br />This is a remarkable book, both for its story of survival and its glimpse into human nature.  One of the best non-fiction books that I've read.	2004-03-11
US	52116450	R2757Y9WPA7K17	0931906008	728162385	Ed Dean is queer: A novel	Books	2	3	3	N	N	An interesting story idea, but very bland reading	Benita Ryan arrives at her Dade County home one night to find the police awaiting her.  Burglars had broken into her home, rifling through her husbands office and scribbling \\"Ed Dean is queer\\" on one of the walls.  After the police leave, she quietly cleans the mess, and is incensed enough to start a crusade against those nasty homosexuals.<br />Following the events in Dade County is Luis, a reporter for a New York newspaper.  He follows the story from Florida to the streets of San Francisco, falling in love with another man (to his surprise) along the way.  As the political environment surrounding the gay community intensifies, Luis witnesses the burgeoning strength of the gay community in San Francisco as it struggles against the sentiments created by Benita Ryan's Crusdae in order to form a city-nation, with the help of the U.N., that respects people of all colors and sexual identities.<br />The story really does have potential: creating a city-nation, separate from the United States and recognized by the UN, with all the freedoms that we are supposed to be guaranteed by the government.  The problem here is the execution of the story.  Diaman's book reads more like an outline.  Story lines need to be fleshed out.  The characters are very one-dimensional, lacking any kind of emotional involvment from the reader, and are desparate need of more development.  Though, there is the character of Benita Ryan who reads as a very thinly veiled Anita Bryant.  Overall, it's a very bland read.	2004-02-27
US	52116450	R16WBFNDBDEH6W	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	5	2	4	N	N	An intelligent, thought-provoking masterpiece of sci-fi	In 2021, after World War Terminus, life on Earth has changed forever.  Those who were not killed either emigrated to other planets or chose to remain on a tainted planet.  With most species of animals dead, live specimens are prized possessions, and for those who can't afford a live animal, companies build artificial ones.  Some even build artificial humans.<br />Rick Deckard is a bounty hunter, sent to find and to retire rogue androids, or \\"andys,\\" who manage to find their way back to Earth.  The government has banned them, fearful of what they might do, especially since they blend in so well with regular humans.  But, the more contact that Rick has with the Nexus-6 android Rachel, the more he begins to question what life is.  Can an artificial life form have empathy?  What happens when a human starts to have empathy for an artificial life form?<br />Philip K. Dick's masterful novel deals with these issues in a fast-paced, realistic environment.  All the characters are finely drawn, especially the andys, and the intelligent story keeps your attention.  I also found it relevant with what's going on in the world today.  It's one of those novels that I just couldn't put down.  A superb sci-fi novel.	2004-02-26
US	52116450	R1XM87G2AL28DG	0553382411	301470528	The Elegant Gathering of White Snows	Books	3	22	28	N	N	An okay novel about the bonds of friendship among women	One night during a meeting of friends in Wisconsin, 8 women decide to take a long walk, not telling anyone where they arer going or why, not even knowing themselves.  Over the course of their walk, they learn about themselves, about being women, and about having an impact on each other's lives.<br />Not a bad book.  The separate stories behind each of the women walkers and the stories of the lives effected by their walk are very enjoyable and interesting.  But, when you gather the women together, they tend to lose their personalities and become indistinguishable from each other.  Their language as a group also seems overly simplistic, as if it were dialogue from a high school play.  It's during these scenes that I started to lose interest in the characters and considered putting the book down and moving on to something else.<br />I also felt that the public's reaction to the women was unrealistic.  No one -- not even their husbands or partners -- tried to stop them or to find out what was going on.  No one bothered them at all!!  They also treated the group with a bit too much reverence, seeming to place them on pedastal.  I also found it difficult to make the connections between what the walkers were doing and the actions of the public.  One woman reads a newspaper article about the walkers and decides to leave her husband and move to California, all thanks to the walkers.  (Huh?  What?)<br />On the plus side, this novel does a great job at touting the necessity for the bonds of friendship and of womanhood.  Everyone needs support of some form or another to make it through hard times.  These 8 women are there for one another through thick and thin, and will stay that way for as long as possible.<br />Overall, not a bad book about friendship.  A very quick and easy read.	2004-02-18
US	52116450	R2LS22WYO76PX0	0807062995	751041157	The Female Man (Bluestreak)	Books	4	20	26	N	N	A complex, involving sci-fi novel about alternate realities	Jeannine, anxiously awaiting marriage to her boyfriend, is a librarian on an Earth that never saw an end to The Great Depression.  Joanna is a 1970s feminist trying to make it in a man's world by being just like a man.  Janet Evason, a traveler from Whileaway which has not been home to a man in over 800 years, suddenly appears on a Broadway sidewalk.  The three women are drawn to one another, presumably to learn and to share information.  Things take a different track when they meet Jael Reasoner from an alternate Earth with separate, warring male and female societies.  She has plans of her own for the three women.<br />This is a fantastic science fiction book centered on the idea that any given situation has a number of choices.  What happens if all the choices actually occur, creating separate realities.  What would the Earth be like in each of those realities?  How would humans behave and act?  Author Joanna Russ lays all these ideas at your feet, and then throws in: and what if you could travel between these realities?<br />Russ also gives the story a feminist flavor, having each of the characters represent a different aspect of a woman without being weak or vicitmized.  They're very strong, very well-defined characters, challenging the reader to open his or her mind to all the possibilities around them.<br />The only difficulty I encountered with this book was sticking with the narrator.  I never really knew who was talking at which time because the scenes would change from chapter to chapter.  A little confusing at times, but if you stick with the book, the outcome is definitely worth it.	2004-02-10
US	52116450	R156BF3WNMMF69	0385334583	677958673	Giovanni's Room	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A true masterpiece	David is an American living in 1950's Paris. He has a finace Hella, who recently left for Spain to make sure that she is ready to marry him. While she's away, David meets Giovanni, a young Italian bartender. They strike up a friendship, and for financial reasons, he moves into Giovanni's tiny room.  But, the friendship grows into something more, and David must decide which life he wants to lead.<br />Throughout the novel, David is conflicted with his feelings of love, loathing and guilt for Giovanni. He loves Hella, too, but desparately wants to find out if her love is what he truly desires, almost willing her to save him. Author James Baldwin uses a very flowing style to permeate his novel with these emotions, allowing the reader to both sympathize and distrust Giovanni and David. One is strong and sure of himself; the other is fighting a battle in his head over what he feels. <br />\\"Giovanni's Room\\" is one of the great novel dealing with someone coming to terms with his or her own sexuality and all the emotions associated with it.  A truly fine novel.	2004-02-05
US	52116450	R2LXAN05F1MEVH	0385334583	677958673	Giovanni's Room	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A masterpiece about love and self-acceptance	David is an American living in 1950's Paris, trying to flee from bad memories of home with his father.  He has a finac&eacute;e Hella, who has just left for Spain to make sure that she is ready to wed David.  While she's away, David allows his urges to take him to one a gay bar, where he meets Giovanni, a young, Italian bartender.  They strike up a friendship, and for financial reasons, David moves into Giovanni's tiny room.<br />Throughout the novel, David is conflicted with his feelings of love, loathing and guilt for Giovanni and for his own homosexuality.  He loves Hella, too, but desparately wants to find out if her love is what he truly desires, almost willing her to save him.  Author James Baldwin uses a very flowing style to permeate his novel with these emotions, allowing the reader to both sympathize and distrust Giovanni and David.  One is strong and sure of himself; the other is fighting a battle in his head over what he feels.  This creates one of the better novels dealing with someone coming to terms with his or her own sexuality.	2004-02-02
US	52116450	R2ZUHRBEJPKDRI	1890449016	646047201	Artful Players: Artistic Life in Early San Francisco	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An brief history of the art movement in early San Francisco	Birgitta Hjalmarson's book describes the early art movement in San Francisco, beginning with artist Albert Bierstadt's coming to the young town in 1863.  His landscapes of the Yosemite Valley helped to usher in a new American view of art.  Covering the years between the American Civil War and the big earthquake of 1906, Hjalmarson introduces the reader to many artists, both male and female, native born and transplants, who helped to shape San Francisco into a major art center in California.<br />It's full of great information on these artist, including Jules Tavernier, William Kieth, Samuel Marsden Brookes and Grace Carpenter Hudson, and contains some color plates of their works.  Hjalmarson also discusses the artists' lifestyles, their patrons and the creation of the San Francisco Art Association.  &quot;Artful Players&quot; is an great educational book written in a style that everyone can read and enjoy and is a must for any art history or California history student.	2004-01-28
US	52116450	R1SYKJ7U0ZJVXL	0375705155	333291953	After the Banquet	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A great book about love, politics and money in 1960s Japan	Kazu is a middle-aged woman and the proprietress of a successful restaurant -- the Setsugoan -- in Tokyo.  During a banquet for the Kagen Club, she meets and falls in love with Yuken Noguchi, a aristocrat and retired politician.  They wed, and soon, Kazu decides to secretly use her wealth to aid her husband in returning to public office, despite protestions and warnings from her friends.<br />&quot;After the Banquet&quot; is a fascinating look at love and politics.  Kazu is head-strong, wealthy and not ashamed to use her money to get what she desires.  Noguchi, a few years older than her, is idealistic and stubborn, wanting to stick to win the election on his own.  Along with that clash, they are also torn between the modern Japanese woman and the traditional role of the Japanese wife.  Kazu wants to be out and about, aiding her husband any way she can; Noguchi is determined to keep her out of politics, at one point even forbidding her to leave the house.<br />It's amazing to see how Yukio Mishima sets these two opposties together, how they interact with each other and with the world of politics.  A great book.	2004-01-27
US	52116450	R2WB4GG4C3VTCB	1931561028	187658169	Letters to Montgomery Clift	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A strong first novel about the bond between mother and son	In the Philippines during 1976, a very young Bong Bong Luwad is put safely on a plane to America by his mother Cessy to stay with her sister Yuna.  She promises to come to the US as soon as she found his father.<br />Living with Auntie Yuna is like a hell on earth for Bong, and all the while he holds on to hope of reuniting with his mother. It's during his stay with Yuna that he first discovers Montgomery Clift, in a film titled \\"The Search.\\" Leaving a permanent impression on Bong, he writes letters to Monty, even though he knows that he's dead, asking for his guidance.  These letters help him through the many tough patches to come in to his life: life with of Yuna, being thrown into the foster care system, discovering a dark secret about his foster family, learning about the fate of his family, and dealing with his own sexualtiy.<br />This is an engrossing story of separation, loss, love and hope, and told from a view that isn't heard to often in literature: a Filipino perspective view of the world and of sexuality. Bong Bong is a strong character, not only in dealing with his own coming out, but with the realization of what happened to his family. He is likable and you want him to succeed.  At the heart of the story, though, is the bond between mother and son; that's what drives Bong to suffer through the ups and downs, hoping that in the end everything will be okay, that he will be with his mother again.<br />A strong first novel.	2004-01-21
US	52116450	R1M5O6C3XKR8KA	0312321201	14825010	P.S. Your Cat Is Dead: A Novel	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A great read that will have you laughing out loud	The past few months have been terrible for James Zoole.  His apartment's been robbed twice.  His best friend Pete passed away.  He was laid off from the play in which he had a lead role (and rehersals hadn't even started).  His girlfriend Kate dumps him on New Year's Eve.  And, Bobby Seale, his cat, died.  What a way to bring in the new year!<br />Feeling angry and sad, Jimmy decides to hole up in his apartment and to not answer the phone, knowing that if he'd been robbed twice, the burglar was sure to come back again.  Enter Vito Antenucci, a bisexual burglar who returns for a third robbery.  They struggle, and Jimmy knocks Vito out, then ties him to the kitchen counter.<br />Throughout this New Year's Eve together, Jimmy discovers what he's been avoiding in his life and begins to understand that he and Vito aren't that different from each other in what they want from life.  To Jimmy's surprise, he begins to find friendship with his captive.<br />A few unexpected interruptions from people in Jimmy's life help to liven up this dark comedy from one of the writers of \\"A Chrous Line.\\"  It's full of strong characters, even those with only minor roles such as Jimmy's Aunt claire, a rich spinster who sublty tries to control Jimmy's life, and Crazy Carmine, a drugged-out sex fanatic who's been trying to get into Jimmy's pants for years.  It's the developing friendship between Jimmy and Vito that drives this story, though.  I wanted them to get together at the end, either as friends or lovers, it didn't matter.<br />I laughed out loud while reading some of the passages.  Though it was written in the 1970's, the humor is defintiely NOT dated.  If you're looking for some light, fun reading, then this is the perfect book for you.	2004-01-14
US	52116450	R3OIWZ7ZWEYWGY	0743222946	337618584	At Swim, Two Boys	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A poignant story of love and self-discovery	Dublin, Ireland; 1915.  James Mack is a young scholar, a bit naive about the world, but is learning much about it from his daily swimming lessons at the Forty Foot with his friend Doyler.  Doyler could have been a scholar, too, but his parents sent him to work straight away.  The plight of the working man in Ireland is his, and he strongly wants to bring an end to the British dominion over his homeland.  Through their swims, the bond of friendship strengthens, eventually turning into a bond of love between them, and they make a pact that in one year, they will swim together to the beacon at Muglins Rock and cliam it for Ireland.  But, whereas Doyle is sure of himself and his feelings for Jim, Jim is unsure of the emotions playing inside his mind.<br />This poignant and emotional story is set in the changing landscape of Ireland during WWI.  Young men are serving England in the War, and rumors of rebellion abound in Ireland.  Jamie O'Neill has done a marvelous job of incorporating Jim Mack and Doyler into these events, and while their relationship is the main focus, the events of the world don't take a backseat to it.  Instead, they add to the drama and the emotional impact of the decisions that each of the characters make.<br />the characters are wonderfully drawn with Jim Mack and Doyler being the opposites of one another.  They are eventually brought together through the mentorship of Anthony MacMurrough, a man with a penchant for young boys.  With him as guide, both boys learn to be proud of  who they are and to accept themselves.  This is a wonderful story of love and self-discovery set in a time of uncertainty and is a must-read.	2004-01-13
US	52116450	R72OJBN0DYZ18	0192838954	197810442	Chronicle of the Abbey of Bury St. Edmunds (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A unique glimpse into the life of a medieval abbey	Jocelin of Brakelond, one of the monks of the abbey of Bury St. Edmunds, allows us a glimpse into the life of a religious community between 1173 and 1202.  He chronicles such events as the death of one abbot to the election of a new one, the fiscal affairs of the abbey, a fire that threatens the shrine to St. Edmund, and the politics and tensions of life as a monk dealing not only with other monks, but with townsfolk, the Jewish quarter, knights, the Pope, the Archbishop of Canterbury, and the King.<br />I was impressed with just how enmeshed the religious community was in the affairs of the surrounding towns and in the politics of the country as a whole: controlling the markets, collecting monthly fees from every town, serving as the courts for disputes, sending knights to fight with the King.  Looking at churches and abbeys now, we think of them only as places of worship, but back in medieval times, they were a large part of the community, affecting the prosperity of towns and cities.  Jocelin's chronicle does a fine job of relating how everything co-existed during medieval times.<br />For anyone interested in medieval or religious history, this is a fascinating chronicle.	2003-12-30
US	52116450	R1L52EI4FWSX0V	0452257980	989114685	The Normal Heart: A Play	Books	5	8	10	N	N	An angry, emotional look at the AIDS epdemic's first years	Ben Weeks is witness to the opening years of the epidemic soon to be known as AIDS.  As his friends start dying, he is amamzed at the small amount of knowledge about this new disease.  What's more, he's outraged at lack of responsiveness by the media and by the government.  (The New York Times  wrote 54 articles about the Tylenol poisoning scare of 1982 within a 3-month period, with 4 articles on the front page.  During the first 19 months of the AIDS epidemic, the same paper wrote 7 articles, with only 1 appearing on the front page.)  His anger leads him into becoming an acitivist and creating a Gay Men's health center to spread the word about the epidemic.  But, Ben runs into obstacles from unlikely places: his friends and the gay community who are scared and don't want to have their freedom of promiscuity taken away from them.  And, he also must deal with his partner who contracts the disease.<br />This incredibly angry and powerful play sweeps you up with its emotions, alternately feeling angry and wanting to cry for desparation.  I've read many plays, and this is one of the few that actually makes you feel as though you are the main character. I wanted to scream along with Ben as his frustration grew about the lack of anyone taking notice about the disease.  It's also semi-autobiographical.  Mr. Kramer, at the onset of the epidemic in the early '80's, became very vocal about getting involved against AIDS and started the Gay Men's Health Crisis in New York, from which he was eventually asked to leave because of his outspokenness.<br />A masterful play full of energy and emotion that should definitely be read by everyone.	2003-12-28
US	52116450	R73S4UXHJCPUT	055327886X	779432511	Rubyfruit Jungle	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A novel about being proud of who you are	Molly Bolt was just another dirt-poor little girl growing up in Coffee Hollow, just outside of York, Pennsylvania.  Pretty much a tomboy, she could beat up her cousin Leroy and wouldn't take lip from anybody.  She also lost her virginity to her girlfriend in the sixth grade.<br />\\"Rubyfruit Jungle\\" is a chronicle of Molly's life, told from her perspective, from the poor area of Pennsylvania to the somewhat nicer area near Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, to her hitchhiking to New York to become a film director.  Along the way, she learns that she's the bastard child of a woman named Ruby and some unkown, married Frenchman, and she also must contend with the societal pressures of the 1960's and 70's of marrying a man to secure your future and that wanting to be a film director is easier than becoming one.<br />Molly Bolt is a strong-willed, self-suficient, incredibly proud character.  She's a lesbian and doesn't care what anyone thinks about it.  (I like that she's so matter-of-fact about herself.)  She's determined and nothing is going to stop her from fulfilling her dream of becoming a director, even if she isn't able to make her film until she's 50.  I think that she represents the kind of person that we would all like to be: strong, no-nonsense, and comfortable with ourselves.<br />The only item I didn't like about the book is that every woman Molly meets -- with the exception of her family -- falls in love with her: cheerleaders, New York socialites, college roommate.  That just seemed a bit too farfetched to me.  But, it doesn't detract from this incredible novel about remaining true to yourself.  I highly recommend it!	2003-12-27
US	52116450	R29GRD48YDZYFJ	0679723420	755867934	Pale Fire	Books	3	3	13	N	N	A novel told in an interesting form	Reclusive American poet John Shade composes a 999-line poem titled &quot;Pale Fire&quot; and finishes it on the day of his death.  One of his fellow professors at Wordsmith University, Dr. Charles Kinbote, is given the poem in rough draft form by Shade just minutes before his death and decides to publish it.<br />What follows is the story of the poem, but told in a unique fashion.  The foreward and commentary to the poem are told by Dr. Kinbote, who idolizes Shade.  He's a bit disappointed, though, because he was trying to direct Shade's thoughts, to have him write about his homeland of Zembla; instead, Shade took the poem in a different direction.  Kinbote's commentary is filled with his attempts to sway Shade with stories of King Charles II of Zembla's exile, of his preference for young men, his own interpretations of what Shade must have been thinking when writing the lines, and as the reader soon discovers, Kinbote's own secret truth about King Charles.<br />It's an interesting study into idol-worship (Kinbote's for Shade) and has some political intrigue thrown in to make it interesting and told in a unique way.	2003-12-22
US	52116450	R24X4OR86F9AHP	014027880X	290037438	Nashville 1864: The Dying of the Light	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Civil War from a Young Boy's Perspective	At the outbreak of the Civil War, 12-year-old Steven Moore watches on as his father Jason saddles up his horse to join other Confederates in the fight to protect Tennessee.  After many months of hardship, Steven's youngest sister, Liza, becomes so gravely ill that he decides to find his father and to bring him home.  With his mother's approval and a crude map, he and his companion, a young slave named Dink, set off into the heart of the battle to find his father.<br />This is one of the most compelling novels of the Civil War, told from the perspective of a 12-year-old boy.  Through his eyes, we see the area surrounding Nashville change from healthy farmland to desolate battle fields.  The Confederate soldiers whom he knew to be proud and strong turn out to be haunted men with sallow faces, bare feet and rags for clothing.  He and Dink watch some of the fighting firsthand: the booming of the canons, the black troops fighting for the Union, the dead and the dying everywhere.  And, still he continues to search for his father, diving deeper and deeper into the heart of the battle.<br />With fantastically detailed imagery and strongly developed characters, Madison Jones has created a Civil War novel that appeals to all readers, both young and old.  You have a real sense of what the war must have been like for a young boy, witnessing his family life upturned and almost destroyed.  Nothing is romanticized.  A strong novel for young adults and anyone interested in the Civil War.	2003-12-13
US	52116450	RS6RVZE2HLP0U	0312186754	304974015	An Arrow's Flight	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A unique blending of Greek mythology and gay culture	The seige of Troy by the Greeks has been going on for 10 years without any clear signs of ending.  An oracle soon gives Odysseus the information he needs to conclude this messy debacle: Neoptolemus, son of the fallen Achilles, will lead the Greeks to victory.  The only problem is trying to find Neoptolemus.<br />Unaware of what the Fates have chosen for him, Neoptolemus, who goes by Pyrrhus because of his red hair and is tired of hiding his sexuality, escapes his boring life on the isle of Scyros and moves to the big city.  Strapped for cash, he decides to put his godlike good looks to some use and becomes a go-go dancer and hustler in the gay part of town.  But even then, he longs for something more than just a sea of faces all wanting him and him not caring one way or the other.  He is found by Phoenix, trusted eunuch of Achilles, who tells him of the oracle's prophecy and offers the opportunity to change his life: to achieve victory in Troy.<br />There's more to the prophecy than Pyrrhus is told, though.  He has to obtain Heracles' bow from Philoctetes who was exiled by Odysseus to the island of Lemnos after being bitten by a snake and contracting an incurable illness.  Once the two meet, Pyrrhus must confront his feelings for Philoctetes and decide once and for all who he is and what he wants from life.<br />\\"An Arrow's Flight\\" is a unique blending of Greek mythology with modern gay themes.  At first, I was a bit thrown, as all the ancient Greeks I remember from my school days are now using computers, watching TV, using charge cards, etc.  It takes some getting used to.  The story itself helps to overcome this; it's well-written with very strong, thoroughly developed characters.  Pyrrhus grows and changes by the end of the story, finally accepting himself and understanding who he is.  A fine, compelling novel.	2003-12-11
US	52116450	R2PYYLQGYVN0ZL	1555830064	868971681	The Men with the Pink Triangle: The True Life-and-Death Story of Homosexuals in the Nazi Death Camps	Books	5	22	25	N	N	A Moving and Powerful True Account of Survival	A sodomy law had been on the German law books since 1871, a law known simply as Paragraph 175.  Only a few people were ever sentenced under this obscure law until June of 1935 when, after the rise of Hitler and Nazism, the Nuremberg laws were enacted and the consequences of Paragraph 175 strengthened.  Where once before, you had to be caught in the act of same sex relations, now simply receiving a letter or the spreading of idle gossip would have you sent to a concentration camp.<br />\\"The Men with the Pink Triangle\\" is one anonymous man's account of the harshness and cruelty faced by gay men at the hands of the SS and the ruling Nazi party, as well as by the other prisoners -- criminals, politicals, emigrants -- who viewed \\"filthy queers\\" as lower than the rest of them.  They were distinguished by the large, pink triangles sown onto their prison outfits, making them easy targets for taunts and punishments.  Also, homosexuals labored through the worst of the work details and \\"volunteered\\" for medical experimentation, which usually resulted in their deaths.<br />Some advantages also appeared for gay men.  The \\"Capos\\" who were in charge of the prisoner barracks, often made lovers of some of the prisoners, giving them some protection and better rations and clothing.  As is says in the book: \\"Homosexual behavior between two 'normal' men is considered an emergency outlet, while the same thing between two gay men, who both feel deeply for one another, is something 'filthy' and repulsive.\\"  The anonymous man used this to his advantage and survived the camps and the threat of being sent to the front lines.<br />Ths is a moving and powerful story about survival and about the right to be who you are, during one of the darkest times in world history.  Highly recommended.	2003-12-07
US	52116450	R3H9TBQ512DLZC	0060920718	346013885	Search for Signs of Intelligent Life in the Universe, The	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A play full of human insight, wit and wisdom	Trudy the Bag Lady has made a life for herself on the streets, offering her own bits of wit and wisdom to the passers-by.  Before she wound up on the streets, she was in and out of hospitals, receiving so much electro-shock therapy that she believes her nervous system has been re-wired and now tunes into the bio-rhythms of people around her.<br />Trudy takes us, along with her two alien companions, on a discovery trip to find out what it means to be human and imparting her own impressions on life.  She tunes in a wide array of people, ranging from Agnus Angst, a 15-year-old punk performance artist; Agnus' grandparents Lud and Marie; Chrissy, a recently unemployed workout enthusiast; Lily, an actress currently performing a one-woman show; and many others, both men and women, gay and straight.<br />This play is full of marvelous insight into the human condition and life in the 1980's.  This is very apparent in the incredible second act, in which we follow Lyn from the consciousness-raising times of the 1970's through her rise and fall in the business ranks of the 1980's and her turbulent family life.  Also, all the characters, in one form or another, have some influence on the life of the other characters in the play, whether or not they actually meet: Lyn has an affair with Agnus's mother; Kate, a rich trendsetter, finds a suicide note left by Chrissy lying in the street; Trudy takes the aliens to see Lily's play in order to show them goosebumps.<br />The book also includes still images, from the stage production, of Lily Tomlin, many of which were shot by Annie Leibowitz.  Jane Wagner also created some montages of Lily as the many characters in the play.<br />Full of wit, insight and tenderness, this play stands as a perfect glimpse into understanding society.	2003-12-04
US	52116450	R2WJGGBHRKXAAU	0872490904	308730259	An Incident at Krechetovka Station & Matryona's House: "We Never Make Mistakes" Two Short Novels	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Two compelling short novels from a master author	This is a collection of two short novels written by Nobel Prize-winning author Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn that appeared in the January 1963 issue of a Soviet literary magazine called &quot;Novy Mir.&quot;<br />The first novel, &quot;An Incident at Krechetovka Station,&quot; centers around Lieutenant Zotov who works at one of the railway stations ensuring men and provisions make it to their proper destinations.  One stormy night, full of wind and cold, an army straggler appears at the station, and it's up to Zotov to determine if he is who he says and what should be done with him.  A fine novel about the idiosyncracies of war and justice.<br />In the second novel, &quot;Matryona's House,&quot; a young teacher is placed out in the country and finds lodging with an old peasant woman.  Through the cold winter, he watches her put up withe cold, hunger and greedy relatives, never once asking for anything in return.  It isn't until after she has died that he truly understands her.  A powerful tale about what remaining true to yourself and to your ideals.<br />Both novels make for great, worthwhile reading.	2003-11-30
US	52116450	RDJE5M24FV3TM	0312876521	956429561	A Door Into Ocean (Elysium Cycle)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A fantastic sci-fi novel about environmentalism and activism	The planet Shora is covered completely by water, giving it the name The Ocean Moon.  Its inhabitants, all female, have lived peacefully for tens of thousands of years, peacefully co-existing with all the creatures of the planet.  That is, until the Valan traders from the neighboring planet of Valedon come, bringing with them pollution and a terrible stonesickness.<br />To understand the Valans, two Sharers leave for Valedon with the hope of sharing learning with them: Usha the Inconsiderate and her lovesharer, Merwen the Imaptient, who believes deep down that Valans are humans, too, like the Sharers of Shora.  For her to prove this, she must teach a Valan the ways of Shora, and after their ordeal on Valedon, they bring home with them a young stonecutter's son, Spinel.<br />As Spinel's learnsharing begins, the Patriarch, protector of Valedon, wants to bring Shora into its folds in order to make use of its valuable resources such as minerals and fish.  His Envoy dispatches a military unit to move relations along, at first with kind words.  When that goes nowhere, he resorts to terrorism, both ecological and physical.  Undaunted, the Sharers, unaccustomed to useless killing, fight back with pacifism and intelligence, hoping to bring an end to this unwanted presence on their homeworld.<br />Slonczewski has created two very distinct and intriguing worlds, populated with very human-acting characters.  One item I truly liked about this book is the interplay of the contrasting world views of the Sharers and the Valans don't think that the either is human: the Sharers consider Valans nothing more than children who need to learn in order to grow; the Valans think of Sharers as nothing more than catfish.  Faced with a problem, one species uses patience and diplomacy, whereas the other immediately resorts to violence.  And stuck in the middle is young Spinel, torn between his homeworld and his new-found family.<br />A fantastic novel full of rich characters and whose themes of environmentalism and activism ring true today.  A definite page-turner!environmentalism and activism ring true today.  A definite page-turner!	2003-11-30
US	52116450	R2CO1PTDSBY01S	0001055178	722586933	Master Georgie	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An engrossing novel about love and war	Geroge Hardy, a surgeon and amateur photographer, discovers his father dead in the bed of another woman and hastens to bring the body home before his mother learns of it.  Three people help with this task, and their lives are irrevocaly changed because of it.<br />The story is told through the eyes of those three people close to Master Georige.  The first is Myrtle, a young orphan who is accepted and raised by the Hardy family.  She immediately falls in love with Georgie, a love that will carry her from the streets of Liverpool to the battlefields of the Crimean War.  Next is Pompey Jones, a young street boy who helps move the body of George's father and then discovers George's passion for young men.  The last is Dr. Potter, a family friend who follows George all the way to the Battle of Inkermann, never understanding George's aversion to women or why he wants to attach himself to a unit during the awful war.  Through their eyes, we watch George change from a young doctor in England dealing with his father's troublesome death to the hardened field doctor trying to save lives during a time of war.<br />This is a fantastic historical novel, with some of the most descriptive war scenes I've read in quite some time.  Bainbridge makes you feel the confusion, fear and dread that the soldiers faced both due to battle and due to disease.  At the same time, she shows how one life can effect others, either for better or for worse.  A highly engrossing novel.	2003-11-29
US	52116450	R2MM5CT8UFDGNR	0679721614	85588534	Ark Sakura	Books	3	2	2	N	N	This ark has a few leaks....	Pig, who prefers to be called Mole, has taken up residence in an abandoned stone quarry, slowly converting it into an ark to save humanity during the inevitable nuclear holocaust.  He has room for a little over 300 people to become his crew, but must be selective in his choosing.  Only those who he deems acceptable will be offered safe harbor in his huge ship.<br />During one of his few outings to buy provisions for the ark, he comes across Komono, an insect dealer, and after lunching with him, offers one of the keys to the ark.  Komono asks if he can think on it and walks off to use the bathroom.  In the meantime, two sakura, or shills, trick Mole into giving up two keys.  They immediately make a run for the ark, followed by Komono and Mole in hot pursuit.  When they reach the ark, they discover that they are not alone in the depths of the quarry.<br />The remainder of the book discusses a wide variety of topics from old age in the form of the Broom Brigade, environmentalism, survivalism, murder, loyalty, sex, humanity and nuclear devastation.  More and more chaacters are added as the book progresses, each with a different story to tell, making it difficult to follow along and unenjoyable to read.  I still am not sure exactly what point the author is trying to make with this novel, or even if there is a point to it.  The characters themselves were not believable to me, especially Mole, a big, fat man who is obsessed with the end of the world and the female shill's behind, continually wanting to pat it even when his life is in danger.<br />The only saving grace for me is Abe's writing.  He has a very fluid style that's descriptive and easy to read.  But, with the piling on of characters and story lines, I can't say that I would add this to a must-read list.	2003-11-25
US	52116450	R3OPRF0UYGLWQ8	0789306808	593760690	Found on eBay: 100 Genuinely Bizarre Items from the World's Online Yard Sale	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Stuff you never knew existed!!!	Have you been searching forever for necktie made from duct tape?  How about a 1963 J.F. Kennedy Garden Gnome?  Author Marc Hartzman discovered these and 99 other items -- all actual listings  found on eBay  -- and compiled them into this humorous short book.  Some interesting, some disgusting, but all totally bizarre.<br />The book includes a picture, item description from the auction, starting price, and the sale value (if the item sold).  For a few items, Hartzman emailed a question or two and included the responses.  And, almost anything you can imagine is listed here.  One of my favorites is the last listing, for \\"Nothing!  Absolutely Nothing!\\" which someone bought for $1.03.<br />They say that truth is stranger than fiction, and this book does a fine job showing that and how much eBay is becoming part of the American culture.  This is a must for anyone who has bought or sold on eBay or who simply has a hankering for the bizarre and unusual.  A funny little gem of a book.	2003-11-23
US	52116450	R10QN3OBKWLWKU	0854491678	604006150	Strange Brother (Gay Modern Classics)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An Early Novel about Homosexuality	While enjoying the nightlife of Harlem in the 1920's, June Westbrook, a recent divorc&eacute;e and newspaper columnist, befriends Mark Thornton, a handsome young man with a secret.  As they are leaving one of the clubs, they witness a young, effeminate man named Nelly gets arrested.  June pleads with Mark to find out what happened to him.<br />En route to the courthouse the next day, Mark reads a copy of the Penal Code and learns of the horrible laws society has created against men like Nelly - and men like himself.  He attends Nelly's trial at which the young man is sentenced to one year in prison for making advances towards another man and for dressing like a woman.  Unnerved by what he has seen and read, he decides to tell June everything, believing she is the one person who can understand him.<br />Blair Niles' novel, first published in 1931, is a remarkable study gay life during the 1920's.: the powerfully negative views imposed by society, the feeling of loneliness, the secretiveness that gay men and women followed in order to fit in with society. Her main characters are wonderfully drawn: Mark, who is filled with self-hatred because of the way he feels toward other been and because of societal dislike of men and women such as he; and June, who, instead of behind disgusted by what she hears, is compassionate toward Mark, perhaps because she finds a connection between her and Mark.  The supporting characters are equally good, ranging from Mark's \\"mentor\\" Tom Burden, who first helped Mark to realize and to accept what he is, to Seth Vaughan, the object of June's affection.<br />It's not a very negative novel at all, most of the time trying to understand and to show a positive light on homosexuality.  I found that refreshing for such an early novel, though Mark does come to the typical tragic end for a homosexual character.  Definitely a novel worth reading.	2003-11-21
US	52116450	RYYEDHTKZOEGK	0786886323	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Magic and Intrigue at the Turn of the Century	Thursday, August 2, 1923.  Magician Carter the Great is performing the third act of his show, the act called &quot;Carter Beats the Devil.&quot;  He' set up earlier to have a volunteer from the audience come on-stage, President Warren G. Harding.<br />Two hours after the show, President Harding is found dead in his hotel room.  Charles Carter, the Magician, is the main suspect, and Secret Service Agent Jack Griffin is determined to prove his guilt.<br />Glen David Gold's novel follows the life of Charles Carter, from his childhood days with his seemingly neglectful parents to his first major illusion that makes his name and earns the friendship of Harry Houdini -- and a terrible enemy.  From that day on, he strives to create the next, great illusion and in the process learns of a secret from President Harding that will revolutionize the world, but which also puts him in danger.  All the while, he struggles with the accidental death of his wife Sarah.<br />The characters are well-drawn and realistic, and that, mixed in with actual persons from the time period, make for a more believable story.  The descriptions of the magic acts are some of the most suspenseful scenes I've read -- case in point is Blackmail, the first big illusion that gets him really noticed in the industry -- and had me eagerly turing the page to find out what happens.  As it states in the book, a magician never reveals his tricks so you must read the book to understand what I mean.  At the same time, gold creatives a vivid picture of Vaudeville and the life its performers lead.  Not to mention the terrific desriptions of the San Francisco of the 1920's.<br />Full of fantastic charcaters, both real and fictional, this novel is full of excitement, adventure and intrigue.	2003-11-16
US	52116450	R17LEG154EFY1T	0099437899	971563185	In the Absence of Men	Books	3	1	2	N	N	An interesting first novel about love, war and sexuality	During the summer of 1916, the young Frenchman Vincent de l'&Eacute;toile strikes up a friendship with an older man he meets at a salon, the author Marcel Proust.  At the same time, he begins a physical relationship with a young soldier, Arthur Vales, who is on leave for one week from the front lines of WWI.  Through a series of journal entries and letters, Vincent begins to understand what love is, especially what it means between two young men in a society which isn't open to such a relationship.<br />I found this novel difficult to get through at first.  Section one is a collection of journal entries from Vincent chronicling his burgeoning love for Arthur, his dislike of his parents and the unusual friendship with Marcel.  In fact, their friendship came across as very cruel to me, and I had much trouble beliving it.  In this section, Vincent comes across as an egotistical, dislikable person and found myself wanting to discontinue the novel.  If I can't connect in some way with the hero/heroine of a book, I'm less likely to enjoy it.  And, I definitely could not relate with Vincent.<br />However, the second section, containing correspondence between Vincent and Arthur and between Vincent and Marcel, brings Vincent into a more humane light.  He's trying to deal with his love for Arthur both because the war has separated them and because he knows their love goes against society.  His letters to Marcel, asking for some kind of direction regarding Arthur, display his need to understand his feelings.<br />The third section throws Vincent back into his egotistical persona, even after he learns about Arthur's past from his mother.<br />This is a good book to read for its attempts at understanding love and sexuality.  But, I can't say that I enjoyed reading it.	2003-11-09
US	52116450	R6KV45GOLA50J	0679741917	687848767	The Immoralist	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Inner struggle between feelings and societal views	One evening, Michel calls together three of his close friends from his school days to relate a story to them and to let them decide for themselves what should be done:<br />Michel and his new bride, Marceline, are traveling through Northern Africa on their honeymoon when Michel comes down with tuberculosis.  During his recouperation in Biskra, Algeria, Marceline does all she can to nurse him back to health.  He slowly recovers, but something in him has changed.  Michel loves his Marceline, but disdains her company, preferring to be surrounded by the young boys of the area, in particular Moktir, whom he spies stealing from Marceline.<br />When the weather changes, he and Marceline return to his family farm in Normandy, hoping that this change will evince an even stronger change in him.  He strikes up a close friendship with Charles, the 17-year-old son of the farm's manager, and begins to spend more and more time with him, trying to find any excuse he can to be away from Marceline and in the company of Charles.<br />Throughout the novel, Michel struggles with his new yearnings for what may, at the time the novel takes place, be considered the immoral things: his attraction to young men and to the darker side of society, while trying to maintain his marriage.  Plus, he has to hide his new feelings behind a false acceptance of society, and it just tears him inside that he must act that way.  I alternatley felt sympathy for him as he attempted to understand the new emotions that resulted from his near-death expereince with tuberculosis, and loathing him for his treatment of Marceline who understood what was going on and yet remained by Michel's side.<br />A fascinating character study.	2003-11-03
US	52116450	R167R98I15H4O4	0553379267	284019128	A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Those who don't learn from the past....	600 years after the nuclear apocalypse, Brother Francis of the Albertian Order of Leibowitz (AOL) is performing his Lenten fast in the desert of Utah.  During his fast, he sees a man wandering through the desert.  This man leads Brother Francis to a hidden cave that contains warnings about the Fallout (a creature he would never like to encounter) and also some documents from the Blessed Leibowitz.  He brings them to the attention of his abbot, who contacts New Rome withthe hopes that this may finally bring about the canonization of Leibowitz.<br />Jump ahead another 600 years.  Leibowtiz has become a saint, and thanks to the efforts of the AOL, many of his documents have been faithfully copied and recopied.  Brother Kornhoer decides to take one of the documents, a &quot;blueprint&quot; as it is called, and creates an arc lamp for the first time.  Meanwhile, Thon Thaddeo, a scholar, needs to visit the abbey to peruse the Memorabilia of Leibowitz and the time before the Deluge and the Simplification.  The abbot is unnerved when he discovers that the thon's companions are sketching the abbey as a possible military stronghold.<br />1800 years have passed since the Saint Leibowitz perished after the Deluge.  Humankind is almost back to where it was with computers, cars that drive themselves and even space travel and colonization of other planets.  the new abbot of the AOL, fearing the latest news of global discord and a possible nuclear war, assembles a small team to take the Memorabilia and other documents of the Deluge and the Simplification to Centarus, out in space.<br />This is a fascinating novel following the monks of the Albertian Order of Leibowitz, who are the safeguards of knowledge concerning the first nuclear war.  It spans 1800 years and during that time, mankind goes from almost complete disappearance to a renaissance.  But have they learned from the mistakes of the past?<br />The novel is filled with very rich descriptions of the new world in each of the three book sections: going from the post-apocalyptic to the desert-like conditions of the far distant future.  Also, enough locations have similar names to giv ehe reader a certain familiarity.  For example, much of the story takes place in the states of Utah and Texarkana.  Already, the reader knows that they are in the former United States and in which area.  Another intriguing feature of this book is te positive light in which religion is portrayed.  The monks maintain the history and try to learn from it, to pass along that information.  It's the world around them that maligns and misuses it.<br />This is an entertaining and intellectual novel that deserves it place as one of the classics of science fiction.three book sections: going from the post-apocalyptic to the desert-like conditions of the far distant future.  Also, enough locations have similar names to giv ehe reader a certain familiarity.  For example, much of the story takes place in the states of Utah and Texarkana.  Already, the reader knows that they are in the former United States and in which area.  Another intriguing feature of this book is te positive light in which religion is portrayed.  The monks maintain the history and try to learn from it, to pass along that information.  It's the world around them that maligns and misuses it.<br />This is an entertaining and intellectual novel that deserves it place as one of the classics of science fiction.	2003-10-29
US	52116450	R2S7OJVGLO1L2	0816638624	731343518	A Single Man	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Read this book!	This short novel follows one day in the life of George, a 58-year-old English professor at San Tomas State College in Los Angeles, CA.  From the moment he wakes up and shuffles to the bathroom, we are immediately thrust into his perception of life both as a gay man in the 1960s, and without his partner Jim who died in a car accident.  His views are based upon both of these events, sometimes viewing the world as a big, happy joke, and other times as a very hostile place.<br />It's a great character study into something I think we don't read about too often: the life of a gay man in his fifties.  Too often, gay books deal with men in their twenties and thirties, and if someone older than that appears, he's a caricature or stereotype of the dirty old man.  George is very human and is presented in a very realistic manner.<br />Beautifully written.  Definitely worth reading.	2003-10-16
US	52116450	R387Q105PTAT45	1404346457	280135040	Chita: A Memory of Last Island	Books	3	12	13	N	N	A Novel of the Lousiana Bayous	A young girl, a survivor of a devastating tropical storm that hit the Louisiana coast, is rescued by a Feliu, a Spanish fisherman, and his wife Carmen.  Unable to discover who she is or where she comes from, they take her in, calling her Chita (short for Conchita), and raise her as their own child.  Chita learns about the sea, learns Spanish and mixes it with her own Creole patois.  Her father, whom everyone thought was dead, coincidentally meets her toward the conclusion of the book, but dies before being able to tell her.<br />There's not much else to the story.  Lafcadio Hearn was passionate about languages, and that comes across clearly with this short novel.  The descriptions of the islands, the waterways, the plant life are wonderfully detailed.  Also, his telling of the storm and the havoc it wreaks are quite vivid and probably the best description of a storm in any book.<br />Good as the descriptions are, they sometimes drag on and seem unnecessary, especially at the beginning of the story.  And, as I said before, there's not much to the story.  Events happen and that's that.  No real conflict or resolution.<br />The novel is a great look at the environment of the Louisiana  bayous is the 1860's,  but left me wanting something more.	2003-10-14
US	52116450	R16PUEKKHJ7B7W	0395877555	661459224	Aquamarine	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A variation on themes of lost love and emotional ties	In 1968 at the Mexico City Olympics, Jesse Autsin wins a silver medal in the Women's 100-Meters Freestyle.  She would have won the gold if it hadn't been for her closest competition, the mysterious and seductive Marty Finch.<br />Flash forward to July 1990.  Jesse is about to turn 40, but is she happy with the choice she made immediately after winning the silver?  In an unusual novel, author Carol Anshaw gives us a look into three posibile presents for Jesse.<br />In the first, she has been married for 20 years to Neal Pratt and still lives in her small hometown of New Jerusalem, Missouri.  Her mentally retarded brother lives with them and helps with the upkeeep of Pratt's Caverns, the small business left to them by Neal's parents.  Her godmother, Hallie, talks of the upcoming retirement party for Jesse's mother, an English teacher at the local high school.  Jesse is content but still wonders about her first love, Marty Finch.<br />In the second, Jesse is an English professor in New York City, something she thought her mother would be proud of, but isn't.  She also lives with her lover, Kit, who plays vampy Nurse Rhonda on a soap opera. Jesse is taking her to her mother's retirement party in New Jerusalem, Missouri, unsure of how the family will react to the two of them together.  Her godmother Hallie has always known.  Jesse thinks that Kit is going to leave her, especially when Jesse's mother asks her to take in her retarded brother Willie.  But, in the back of her mind, she still wonders if she was being used by Marty Finch on that day in Mexico City.<br />In the third, a divorced Jesse lives in Venus Beach, Florida, with her children Anthony and Sharon.  Anthony's had a run-in with the law, and now, his father is on his way from New York to &quot;take care of things.&quot;  Just what Jesse needs.  Her godmother Hallie, who moved to Florida a few years after Jesse, is returning from Jesse's mother's retirement party back in Missouri.  She feels as though life has passed her by and wonders if anything really happened between her and Marty Finch, or if it were all just a dream.<br />Each scenario has many of the same characters (Kit, Hallie, Willie, Jesse's mother, Marty Finch) and similar situations, giving the reader a feeling of looking at lives running parallel to one another.  This novel does a marvelous job of weaving together these three scenarios of choices made or passed by and how these choices affect the future and the emotional ties between Jesse and the people in her past.  A thought-provoking book, definitely worth reading.passed her by and wonders if anything really happened between her and Marty Finch, or if it were all just a dream.<br />Each scenario has many of the same characters (Kit, Hallie, Willie, Jesse's mother, Marty Finch) and similar situations, giving the reader a feeling of looking at lives running parallel to one another.  This novel does a marvelous job of weaving together these three scenarios of choices made or passed by and how these choices affect the future and the emotional ties between Jesse and the people in her past.  A thought-provoking book, definitely worth reading.	2003-10-13
US	52116450	R1RC5ZW5739DDN	1587156814	498408826	Fantastic Fables	Books	4	8	8	N	N	245 bits of wisdom from an American master	This unique book is filled with 245 &quot;fantastic fables&quot; as Ambrose Bierce termed them.  Each one is a classic of Bierce's bitterness and insight into such things as greedy politicians, not-so-holy holy men, legislators, doctors, judges, dogs sheep, lions and diplomats.  Many read more like anecdotes, but in true fable style, he personifies animals as well as ideas, and even creates his own fantastic characters, such as the Pahdour of Patagascar and the Gookul of Madagonia.  Bierce attacks each fable with much of his own sarcasm and satirical style.  He even re-works some of Aesop's reknowned fables to suit his needs.  Fans of Bierce's work will want to add these little gems to his or her collection.	2003-09-22
US	52116450	R3LIHWD1PMCHGG	1573440957	332614005	A Ghost in the Closet: A Hardly Boys Mystery	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Mystery Spoof Well-Worth Reading!!!!	Handsome, young detectives Frank and Joe Hardly travel home to Lake Merrimen, Illinois to find that their parents, world-reknowned detective Fennel Hardly and his loving wife, Mrs. Hardly, have been kidnapped and rumors are spreading about Mr. Hardly's being a Russian spy.<br />Meanwhile, Nancy Clue, girl detective and snappy dresser, ventures with her friends to the Lake Merrimen Auditorium to view the annual dog show.  But something's amiss as she and her friends follow a scream only to discover that all the toy poodles have been dognapped!<br />Could the two incidents have anything in common?  What is the terrible secret that Fennel Hardly keeps locked in his closet?  Will Nancy ever win back her true love -- Cherry Aimless, Registered Nurse -- from the handsome, streetwise San Francisco girl detective Jackie Johnson?<br />Join Nancy and her friends as they dive into this hilarious, gay/lesbian spoof of the Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew mysteries.  Mabel Maney has constructed a fabulous world full of sharp characters --  each with a very keen fashion sense -- and thrown in many a surprising twist that kept me enthralled with the events of the mystery.  Her style is very descriptive and conjures up the 1950s mindset.  I could not help but smile as I was reading.  A great read for everyone!	2003-09-14
US	52116450	R23X9TQBBGJPWK	1573225770	579458000	Toward Amnesia	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A well-told story of self-discovery	A young marine biologist is rattled by the break up with her lover of 5 years.  In a state of confusion and disbelief about how they now feel about each other, she finds herself driving by her former lover's new home, wondering what her new life is like.  She finally realizes that this is not going to help her situation, and after reading an article about a woman who disappeared for three weeks only to reappear in Florida, hundreds of miles from her home, she decides to disappear also, to remove every trace of her former life and to discover her true self.<br />This novel traces her path along the roads and highways of eastern North America, starting in North Carolina and settling on a remote island off the coast of Canada.  Along the way, she discovers herslef through musings about relationships, her missing-in-action father, animals and nature -- especially about the mysterious catamount, a large mountain cat, which is on the verge of extinction and rekindles feelings about her own life's path.<br />It's a very moving story about self-discovery.  Sarah Van Arsdale's style is poetic, very clear and detailed, making it quite enjoyable to read.  I really liked the main character and how she handled herself in very realistic terms.	2003-09-10
US	52116450	R3PFPX36NKNCGE	0375757023	834895535	The Ox-Bow Incident (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Mob justice in the Old West	Walter Van Tilburg Clark's classic novel begins like many Westerns: two ranchers, Art Croft and Gil Carter, ride into the town of Bridger's Wells.  They stop at the saloon, have a few drinks after which a poker game begins followed by a fight.  Things change quickly when a young man storms into town with a tale of murder and cattle rustling.  Though he hasn't actually seen any of the events he's describing, the young man's tale is strong enough to insense the men in the bar.  They form a lynch mob and go after the murderers and rustlers.<br />&quot;The Ox-Bow Incident&quot; is told through the eyes of Art Croft.  From him, we see and hear Farnley who is dead set on forming the mob to exact justice; of Osgood and Davies, who both try to convince the group that justice can only be handled properly by the law; and Art himself who has doubts about the lynch mob but goes along, like every other man.<br />This is a story about who determines what is right and wrong and how justice should be determined with all the facts instead of partial truths and one-sided ideals.  It deals with the mob mentality and its consequences.  Not your typical fare with a Western.  Clark expertly handles the subject matter, and as I was reading, I felt as though I were part of the mob, knowing the mob is not right but powerless to do anything to stop it, swept along for the ride and the outcome.  A definite classic.	2003-09-06
US	52116450	R3H46VBNY40RVW	0140071083	514925319	The Haunting of Hill House	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Atmospheric and creepy	Hill House has stood for nearly 80 years, vacant for the last twenty.  With eerie stories of its past residents, what better place for Dr. John Mantague to conduct his study on hauntings.  With him are Luke Sanderson, soon to inherit Hill House from his aunt; Eleanor Vance, whose only experience with the supernatural was a poltergeist phenomenon that rained stones upon her house for 3 days; and Theodora, an artist with a bit of ESP.<br />But, they are not alone.  Thanks to Jackson's unique descriptions of the house, Hill House itself becomes a character, with cold spots, shaky metal stairs, the rooms built in concentric circles, and slightly off-kilter measurements (doors not on the jamb, the stairs leaning slightly toward center, a tower that can only be seen from certain angles).  It seems to be designed to keep people slightly off-balance.<br />No one experiences this more than Eleanor.  The recent death of her mother seems to be lingering in the air, and maybe the house is picking this up.  Of all the characters, she is the only one whose thoughts Jackson allows us to see, and her unease permeates the whole house (and novel).<br />With a surprise ending, this is one of the creepier haunted house novels, and it doesn't rely on blood and gore.  It's very atmospheric and character-driven.	2003-09-04
US	52116450	R2Y08VFHB6KXSU	081560419X	279243153	Lost Weekend (New York Classics)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not the Billy Wilder version!	Don Birnam is ecstatic when his brother Wick finally leaves their apartment for a long weekend in the country.  Free of the constant watching, he is incredibly happy and feels even better after the second drink.<br />Throughout the five days, Don drinks, makes and forgets promises, discovers numerous brilliant ideas for writing and dismisses them just as quickly, loses track of time.  His mind takes him on a guilt-ridden trip through past experiences and hallucinations: in the backseat of a carriage with young Mel Ostler, his expulsion from a fraternity due to an \\"unhealthy\\" attachment to one of the brothers, his failed romances with Anna and Helen.  And, during one of his blackouts, he awakens in a hospital with a black eye.  The stocky male nurse comforts him and confides that \\"I know who you are.\\"<br />This novel does a fine job of detailing what happens to someone in the grips of alcoholism: the desparate need, the hallucinations, the blackouts, etc.  It is fast-paced and you get the feeling that you are living every moment with Don.  Kind of a roller coaster ride and worth every minute.	2003-09-02
US	52116450	R2I8RB95LO151P	0679728899	28667543	Death Comes for the Archbishop (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A beautifully written book	A new Bishop, Father Jean Marie Latour, is sent by Rome to spread Chrisitanity through new territory purchased in the Americas as part of the Gadsden Purchase. Father Latour takes with him his close friend, Father Jospeh Vaillant, to help with this cause. Latour is handsome, non-judgemental, amiable, keeps himself in check; Vaillant is his opposite, being not so pleasant of face but very very sociable and incredibly strong in faith.<br />There isn't much of a plot for this novel. It's more of a photo album or a series of episodes about the unexplored Western United States.  The reader sees what the territory of New Mexico, Arizona and Mexico were like before trains, when the desert was both a beautiful and a harsh place. And, the reader learns about the people living there, from the French Fahters sent to Chrisitanize the Indians to the Mexican and Spanish settlers to the native Indians who are untrusting of white men and still hold to their gods.  And the reader sees it all through the eyes of Father Latour so we get his wonder and awe at this strange, new world into which he's been sent to spread the word of God.	2003-09-01
US	52116450	RHPKSR4Q1PGO1	0312303726	924974354	Sea of Tranquillity	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A fine and complex novel, definitely worth reading	In the early 1970s, Astronaut Allen Cloud returns to his Houston, TX, home from a mission in Florida to find his wife Joan sitting on their bed, drunk and toying with a pistol.  He calmly takes the gun from her, which she swears isn't loaded.  She lays back on the bed and, before passing out, says, \\"You should know, your son is a homosexual.\\"<br />\\"Sea of Tranquility\\" relates the story of the Cloud family in the aftermath of that singular statement. Allen Cloud, astronaut and father who tries to cope with his mixed feelings about the son he never really knew.  Not that he ever really knew anyone or would allow anyone to get close to him.  Joan Cloud, finally feeling free of the loneliness of being an astronaut's wife, moves with her son to her hometown of Minerva, TN.  Coninuously drinking, her life centers around her son whom she loves but feels more of an equal to than a mother.  Jonathan Cloud, her son who wears tie-dye shirts and eyeliner to enhance his dark eyes.  Very much a free spirit with a vivid imagination and who doesn't care much for what others think about him.  Stayton Voegli, the son of a Baptist preacher and missionary, who falls for Jonathan after sneaking out to a club, watching him dance, and is then partnered with him in a high school science class.<br />Each chapter is told from one of their points of view, all in the first person, allowing us access to the inner workings of their brains.  Stayton's hesitation at this new relationship he's forming and trying to reconcile it with his strng religious upbringing. Jonathan's vivid world, filled with the names of all the stars and planets and galaxies.  But, Allen's chapters are told in the third person, revealing much more about his character's feelings of being cut off and closed to those around him.<br />This is a wonderful book, full of marvelous imagery and a unique glimpse into the characters.  Definitely a must-read!	2003-08-29
US	52116450	RH2DRFSYCUNDH	0805058257	66101030	The Story of the Night: A Novel	Books	3	4	11	N	N	A tale of the Falkland War	Richard Garay, half-English and half-Argentinian, lives with his mother in Bueons Aires in the 1980s.  He's stuck in a teaching job he doesn't like and roams the streets at night, afraid of letting anyone close to him know about his homosexuality.  But Argentina is changing, and Richard soon must change with it.<br />He befriends one of his students, Jorge Caneto, and travels with him to Barcelona.  His mother passes away.  The Falklands War begins and ends.  Once the war is over, Jorge's father, a powerful man in Argentina, gets Richard a job as an interpretor for the foreigners coming over to assist with the privatization of Argentina's oil industry.  And, he also hopes that Richard will help sway the visitors in the political arena.  At one of the fundraiser parties, Richard spies Pablo, a beautiful young man and also Jorge's brother.<br />Richard slowly begins a romance with Pablo.  But, Pablo's past comes back to haunt the relationship.  Soon, Richard is having to deal not only with that past but also his future and the threat of HIV and AIDS.<br />I felt that the author couldn't make up his mind what story to tell: the political intrigue of the privatization of Argentina or the romance of Pablo and Richard.  Either one would have been sufficient, but the stories didn't combine well and made it seem as though I were reading two novels at once.	2003-08-23
US	52116450	RV6EBPDIST0YR	0330342673	651729312	The Chalice: A Glastonbury Ghost Story (Glastonbury Ghost Stories)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Another page turner from Mr. Rickman	Diane Ffitch is being called back to the Glastonbury Tor.  She sees it in visions, in objects transforming in front of her eyes into the Tor.  The pull is strong enough that she quits her job, leaves her fianc&eacute; and tags along with a group of New Agers heading for Glastonbury -- but with a sense of dread.<br />Joe Powys, an occult author, is having strange experiences of his own.  Books are throwing themselves from a bookshelf, with one in particular seeming to be at the center: &quot;A Glastonbury Romance.&quot;  Reluctantly, he travles to Glastonbury on the pretext of writing a book but soon finds out that dark forces are stirring in the town.  He hears the tales of a dark chalice -- an anti-Holy Grail -- and begins to wonder just what role Diane has to play in this.<br />Another fine work from Phil Rickman.  The characters are all interesting and well-developed.  Plus, he gives enough background information on the people and the area's history  that I was enthralled with the story.  A definite page-turner.	2003-08-15
US	52116450	R342IEOWN8FG0S	0375504966	576782532	The Barbary Plague: The Black Death in Victorian San Francisco	Books	4	16	19	N	Y	The Black Death in Early San Francisco	This book is not only a fascinating look into the origins of the bubonic plauge in early San Francisco, tracing the disease's trek from China through Hong Kong to Chinatown in Honolulu and spreading itself in the western frontier of California; it is a view of how racism and politics affected interfered with solution. When plague first appeared in San Francisco, it struck the Chinatown area the hardest, inflaming tensions between the whites and the immigrants. When Dr. Joseph Kinyoun threatened quaratine of the entire area, the businessmen and politicians rose against him, putting the city' s profitability before the public's health. His replacement, Rupert Blue, managed the plague clean-up campaign with much diplomacy and brought about sweeping changes that not only curbed the rise of the plague, but also enhanced the city's image.<br />This book has it all -- poitical intrigue, racism, a disease out of control, heroes and villains. Sometimes non-fiction can be better than most novels, and in this case, it makes for a great book well worth reading.	2003-08-12
US	52116450	R1XMG7DN8DQF1Z	0393315088	317869865	The Wanting Seed (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A fascinating glimpse into the future	In the very distant future, world overpopulation has become a serious problem. Food levels are quickly dropping. Space is becoming so scarce that an island has been built in the Atlantic to hold the overflow. As a last measure, the government has embraced homosexulaity as a way to curb the population growth. Signs are posted all over London tht read \\"It's Sapiens to be Homo!\\" And, society even rewards homosexuality with promotions and higher societal standings.<br />Infanticide is promoted, with state-paid condolences doled out to the families. And, births have been limited to one per family. Beatrice-Joanna Foxe and her husband Tristram have lost their only son, and, by law, are not allowed to have any more. To cope, Beatrice has a tryst with her husband's brother, Derek, who is high up in the Ministry of Infertility and a pretend homosexual. In the meantime, Tristram is passed over for promotion due to the large size of his family (three brothers and one sister).<br />When Tristram learns of his wife's infidelity, he has it our with her in public and is thrown in prison. Beattrice also discovers that she is pregnant again and has to leave London before anyone finds out.<br />As the story progresses, religion and hetero sex do come back into fashion with a bang, as does cannibalism. It becomes rampant and orgiastic, then state-authorized, eventually causing a steady increase in popluation worldwide. To combat this problem the new \\"War Department\\" creates Extermination Sessions to start controling population growth as well as something more akin to \\"Soylent Green.\\" Tristram sees all this first-hand and manages to survive, his one intent to make it back to the woman he loves.<br />An interetsing glimpse into a dark future. For anyone who enjoyed Orwell's \\"1984\\" or Huxley's \\"Brave New World,\\" this book fits well with them.	2003-08-06
US	52116450	R7IGP2JI3RMRT	0312252676	981554440	Pulp Friction: Uncovering the Golden Age of Gay Male Pulps	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	A fascinating look into gay history	Just after the end of World War II, a small literary movement began, unnoticed to most of the public: the gay pulp novel.  From quiet novels about homosexual relationships post-WWII to the psycho-analytic and sexually charged writings of the Sexual Revolution to the more speculative and activist writings post-Stonewall, Author Michael Bronski has drawn from extensive research and a large collection of pulp novels to give an in-depth look at this almost hidden movement.  Through this anthology, the reader not only sees a history of the gay literature but of societal views concerning homosexuality and how they have progressively changed.<br />Bronski has chosen to cite only a few chapters from specific works to point out the pulp styles as they changed with the times.  At first, I thought I would be put off by this, but instead, it has interested me enough to try to find copies of some of these works, many of which have not been in publication since the 1950s and 1960s.  One selection of note is from \\"The Gay Haunt\\" by Victor Jay.  Kind of a gay \\"Blithe Spirit,\\" even the snippet that was included in this book had me laughing hysterically.<br />This is a fascinating read, most definitely worth your reading.	2003-07-28
US	52116450	R11VNXO881OOXW	0932870643	871969591	Cowboy Blues	Books	2	3	4	N	N	A book to read at the beach	Tyler Monroe's partner -- Andy jones -- disappears after 15 years together.  No note. No reason.  He seeks the help of private eye Jake Lieberman.  Jake, thinking that maybe Andy wanted a change of pace after 15 years, reluctantly takes the case after realizing how heartbroken Tyler is.<br />During the first night of Jakes' search, Ty receives a mysterious phone call, telling him to come alone to get Andy.  Sensing something suspicious, Jake tags along and the meeting ends in gunfire.  His interest now piqued, Jake finds out that Andy's disappearance isn't just a case of the seven-year-itch.  Somehow, it's tied in with a strong political family, and now, it's Jake's job to find out just what's going on.<br />Overall, this is an average mystery novel.  The characters are okay, but there isn't enough about them to really get involved with or to care about them.  Some of the writing is a little too clich&eacute;d, as if the author were  trying to get the feel of a Mike Hammer or Philip Marlowe mystery and left me wondering why there were a lot of little bits of information that weren't really necessary.  The story itself is okay and moves quickly.  It's a good book to read while sitting at the beach.	2003-07-24
US	52116450	R2RONLBEADRJA4	0380778556	39495389	Rebecca	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A classic suspense novel	This novel tells the story of a  naive young woman (whose name is never mentioned) traveling in Monte Carlo as the companion to an older woman.  In the dining room of the hotel, she meets the brooding Maxim de Winter, who is taking some time off after the apparent suicide of his wife.  He takes a fancy to her and after a whirlwind romance, they wed.<br />After a long honeymoon, they return to Maxim's family estate, Manderley.  Almost immediately, the second Mrs. de Winters begins to feel her inadequacy.  She thinks the staff look down on her as a common girl, which is further re-inforced by the contemptuous looks from the first Mrs. de Winters' personal maid, Mrs. Danvers.  And, then there is the presence of Rebecca -- the first Mrs. de Winters.  She seems to be everywhere, and the new Mrs. de Winters constantly feels that she needs to live up to her popularity with the staff and the people of the town.<br />Through a series of disastrous events, the second Mrs. de Winters learns the truth about Rebecca's death and in the process grows into a stronger person.<br />This wonderful novel is full of twists and turns that leave the reader wanting more.  Du Marier's characters are all well-drawn, especially the sinister Mrs. Danvers.  The story gets a bit melodramatic at times, but that can easily be overlooked because of the age of the story.<br />Still a page-turner well worth reading.	2003-07-23
US	52116450	R1PUUCZTNXB7JE	0140032010	784541492	Powdered Eggs	Books	3	5	8	N	N	An interesting, award-winning novel	In a series of letters to an un-named friend, the narrator talks about his life: the death of his father, his quest to be a writer, his interesting and varied sex life, even bits of the novel he's working on.<br />In reading over the snippets of critic reviews from when the novel was first published in 1964, I can understand why, for them, it had such an impact, comparing it to \\"Tom Jones\\" and \\"Lady Chattereley's Lover.\\"  The narrator's exploits would have shocked society and effected the sexual revolution of the 1960's.  His mother wants him to get a good job with a large company; he wants to be a writer and goes through a series bad, low-pay jobs instead.  He is engaged to two women (one of whom he's lied to in order to get to bed with her).  His circle of friends is populated with odd characters such as Jose who is infatuated with his cousin Rita, a nun at the local convent, and plans on marrying her.  The narrator's openness about discussing sex is shocking for the time.<br />But, today, they have lost their shock value.  We are so inundated with sexual weirdness and innuendos in the media that the narrator's exploits don't effect us in the same way.  He's just a man who enjoys sex.  That does not detract from the readability of the book.  In fact, the novel which the narrator is writing -- concerning a man who loses his floggis and becomes invisible -- is one of the best things about this book and makes it worth reading.  It is a good glimpse into sexuality and society of that time period.	2003-07-20
US	52116450	RBI8TPALCYP8A	187374143X	176066022	The Comedienne	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A wonderfully witty and engrossing book!	Joan Littler is a well-known TV comedy writer in England. Beginning with sections of a taped interview, she tells us about her life and loves, from the lonely 23-year-old woman still living with her mother in Birmingham to the successful writer she is today.<br /><br />Joan introduces us to two of the main female relationships in her life: her mother, Dolly, a witty woman with a penchant for crosswords, always has a remark about the women she brings home, especially for the no-good Susan; and Susan, the love of her life who walked out on her but still manages to keep herself in Joan's thoughts. It's the experiences with these women and with her friends and lovers that give her the self-confidence to change her life, to try her hand at stand-up comedy.<br /><br />Which doesn't go so well.<br /><br />Until one night at a party, she creates Freddy -- the perfect lover and companion. After the party, she goes home and creates a life for her fictitious other half, jotting notes about music and travel and creates such an involved life that she must make additional notes to remind her to whom she told what about Freddy.<br /><br />I will leave you with that. Revealing any more would ruin the story.<br /><br />Author V G Lee has written a very involving story with strongly developed and lively characters with whom I was able to connect. Her sense of humor is<br />wonderfully witty and not overdone. This is a highly recommended book that I am making sure my friends read!	2003-07-10
US	52116450	ROMYNU849P6TR	0877957096	894065331	The Gallery (The Arbor House Library of Contemporary Americana)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	A book of Italy and the American GIs of WWII	The Galleria Umberto is an arcade of shops and caf&eacute;s at the center of Naples, Italy. In 1944, after the Allies had taken control of the country, everyone managed to make his or her way to this galleria: the Neapolitans to watch and to take advantage of the Americans; the Americans to get drunk, to find a trick or to think.<br />In \\"The Gallery,\\" the narrator takes us on a tour of the galleria, showing us the sights, sounds and people who frequent the area. Each of the 9 stories gives the reader a glimpse in to the social and sexual practices of the American GI in 1944: from a censorship office run by an egomaniac to an Italian girl finding love in an America officer's club to a gay bar.  These portraits are linked by the narrator's own experiences from Casablanca to Naples and his realization of what love and the war mean to him.<br />This novel might be considered semi-autobiographical as John Horne Burns served during World War II and undoubtedly drew inspiration from his surroudings.  For example, the portrait titled \\"The Leaf\\" takes place in a censorship office; Burns also served in a censorship office while in Italy.  It is a wonderful book to read.  My only gripe is that many of the characters speak Italian or French, and what they say is not translated.  Perhaps this works to show what it may have been like for the American soldiers, most of whom went to Italy and the rest of Europe not knowing the languages.  I would like to have known what was being said, though.  (This last part may only reflect the copy I was reading.  There may be translations in other copies.)	2003-07-06
US	52116450	R1WNJ13989SQVS	0802136915	603621843	Faggots	Books	2	10	22	N	N	Not a book for everyone	The story centers on Fred Lemish, a 39-year-old gay man trying to find true love in New York in the late 1970s. In fact, he's told the man he's been dating that he is in love with him and is waiting for his response. In the meantime, we follow Fred and his friends as they party and sex their way through New York gay night life from the Everhard Bath and club openings to the first summer parties on Fire Island.<br />I found this book very difficult to enjoy.  While Fred is agonizing about his boyfriend, Dinky, he's also out at the baths, experimenting. His friends are drugged to a very high degree and are also lamenting about love but having sex with anything and everything that catches their eyes. Kind of hard to warm up to these characters.<br />For me, this book espoused all the negative aspects that we're pounded into me about being gay: everyone does drugs; it's all about sex, sex and sex; and you must have the perfect body (looks, weight, etc.) in order to be accepted into gay society.<br />Maybe on a historical level, this book works to show what gay life was like back in New York in the late '70s. I don't know if that's enough to recommend it as a \\"must-read.\\"	2003-07-02
US	52116450	RL2YCSHKKDCSU	0156628708	179043206	Mrs. Dalloway	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of the best characters in literature	\\"Mrs. Dalloway said she would buy the flowers<br />herself.\\" Thus begins a very intriguing novel that<br />revolves around a single day in the life of Clarissa<br />Dalloway.<br />Clarissa is a good-natured woman who is throwing a<br />party. As the day goes on, her strong aura begins to<br />wear away due to small events: the surprise return of<br />a former admirer which recalls to her memories of a<br />secret kiss with a young lady years ago; her husband<br />being invited to lunch at Lady Bruton's without her;<br />Miss Kilman's unnatural attachment to her daughter<br />Elizabeth; and a death.<br />This is a beautifully written book that discusses the<br />relationships between men and women and serves as a<br />fascinating character study. Clarissa Dalloway is one<br />of the most invloved and interesting characters in<br />literature.<br />Highly recommended reading.	2003-07-02
US	52116450	RU40IG1HRC0D2	0872862380	49259578	The White Book (Le Livre Blanc)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	A book about acceptance and tolerance	A young man, sentencing himself to a self-imposed exile, writes a book tracing his infatution with boys. It all begins fairly innocently, with his first glimpse of a nude young man while out hunting. The sight and sensations he feels cause him to faint.<br />Wanting to learn more about his attraction, he tries to trick a young servant into allowing him to experience what he has seen.  And, in school, he develops an interest in one of the other students, Dargelos, who is very manly for his age, wearing trousers and an open-necked shirt. This infatuation ends in tragedy and haunts the young man for the rest of his life.<br />Realizing that his desires are too different from what is considered normal and accetpable, he attempts to hide his true feelings through a series of failed love affairs: a relationship with an actress named Jeanne whom he discovers to be a Sapphist; befreinding a prostitute named Rose and her \\"brother\\" Alfred, with whom he begins an affair behind Rose's back; the beautiful young sailor PAS DE CHANCE who painfully reminds him of Alfred.<br />Seeing no end in sight to his aching, the young man tries to find solace with the church. This proves difficult when he falls for a young man on a beach, who believes in God but not in religious dogma. Their relationship is put to the test when the young man discovers his new love's infidelities with women.<br />...  But, it is more of a statement against society at large for creating the negativity.  At the end, the young man exiles himself, leaving the book behind as a reminder that \\"I am not exiling a monster, but a man whom society will not allow to live\\" and a plea for tolerance and acceptance.	2003-06-30
US	52116450	R185CKNJANC0NA	0802135161	24358295	Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A thoroughly enjoyable book	This quirky novel tells the story of Jeanette, who is<br /> adpted into a very devout, Evangelical house in<br /> England. As she grows, she begins to realize how<br /> different she is from the people around her, whether<br /> it's the reaction of teachers and students to her<br /> religious views at the public school (the 'Breeding<br /> Ground,' as her mother calls it) or her &quot;unnatural<br /> passion&quot; for young Melanie who works at the fish stall<br /> in the local market.<br /><br /> Her views of God, religion and the search for<br /> perfection are all challenged by her desire to learn<br /> more about herself. At one point, she is locked into<br /> a room for 32 hours to &quot;purge her of the demons&quot; when<br /> her church discovers her relationship with Melanie.<br /> Through all the obstacles, she remains true to<br /> herself.<br /><br /> This book is filled with both humor and drama, as well<br /> as strong characters: the strong-willed Mother whose<br /> ideas of God and religion make an imprint on<br /> Jeanette's view of the world; Elsie, the only woman<br /> who seems to truly understand what Jeanette is going<br /> through and how to deal with it; and Jeanette herself,<br /> a sharp young girl with strong opinions of right and<br /> wrong and learns that it is okay to be different.	2003-06-29
US	52116450	R14K0L2HW4ARAX	0192839527	21846279	The Satyricon (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	19	23	N	N	The decadence of Nero's Rome	Follow the bawdy adventures of Encolpius through the<br /> decadence of Nero's Rome as he tries to maintain the<br /> love of his beautiful young male slave Giton. They<br /> must contend with an evil roommate, Ascyltus -- also<br /> vying for the attentions of Giton -- an orgy from the<br /> Priestess of Priapus, a shipwreck, and a severe case<br /> of impotence.<br /><br /> This satire of Roman life during the time of Nero<br /> unabashedly shows the love (and sex) between<br /> Encolpius and Giton. Not to mention the fact that<br /> others -- both men and women -- also are attracted to<br /> the beauty of young Giton and sometimes have their way<br /> with him. It's quite humorous, sometimes a little<br /> long in the speeches (like many Greek or Roman works<br /> of the time) and even manages to throw in some poetry.<br /><br />  I was actually surprised at this openness to talk<br /> about homosexuality in the First Century A.D. I would<br /> have thought this to be a taboo suject at the time.<br /> After some reasearch, I discovered that Petronius<br /> actually served under Nero as his \\"arbiter elegantiae\\"<br /> -- which means that he advised Nero on luxury and<br /> extravagance. He was what would be considered today a<br /> \\"partier:\\" sleeping during the day and staying up<br /> until all hours with both young men and women, as did<br /> Nero. So what Petronius writes about was actually<br /> happening -- all the extravagant dinners, the orgies,<br /> the openness of sexuality.<br /><br /> I highly recommend this!<br /><br /> (Also, as a note on the book. It is fragmentary. The<br /> scholars have been unable to find a complete text of<br /> \\"The Satyricon\\" so in reading it, you need to give a<br /> little leeway in what happens.)	2003-06-29
US	52116450	R3LGK7SMQ3R0CB	0962859508	122001320	Expenses	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good book for a rainy day	Martha &quot;Marty&quot; Winchell is a columnist for a daily<br /> newspaper in Chicago. Her one problem, as her best<br /> friend Barb can attest to, is constanly falling for<br /> straight women, even though she knows that nothing<br /> will ever come of it.<br /><br /> Then, Janis Daly walks into her life. Janis is a<br /> wealthy socialite who almost drowns at the lake until<br /> Marty, who watches her from the shore, dives in to<br /> rescue her. They soon develop a good friendship which<br /> turns into something else, even though Janis is<br /> straight and engaged to Jim.<br /><br /> This novel deals with the ups and downs of Marty and<br /> Janis's relationship: Janis' first time with a woman;<br /> Janis breaking off the engagement to Jim and its<br /> violent consequences; an unexpected pregnancy; Marty<br /> coming out to her co-workers; a suicide.<br /><br /> Lorio makes a few attempts at humor that are okay and<br /> occasionally throws in a lesson about acceptance. She<br /> also ties up the emotions a bit too quickly a few<br /> times. But, it's a good story and worth reading. A<br /> good read for a rainy day.	2003-06-28
US	52116450	R3BHGZPXMHJ0NR	159021000X	442080132	Trysts: A Triskaidecollection of Queer and Weird Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	13 Spine-Tingling Tales...a Great Read!!	I admit that I'm a bit biased. Horror and dark<br /> fantasy stories have always been of keen interest to<br /> me, ever since reading \\"The Shining\\" by Stephen King.<br /> They are the kind of books that I just can't seem to<br /> put down. And, \\"Trysts\\" is no exception.<br /><br /> The thirteen stories in this collection take the<br /> reader from a session with a ouija board to the dark,<br /> back alleys of New Orleans, from the grotesqueries of<br /> an artists' studio to a \\"Fallen Area\\" where nothing is<br /> what it seems anymore. Each story has great<br /> characters and is visually appealing and imaginative.<br /> (Just thinking about the statues in \\"Cries Beneath the<br /> Plaster\\" makes me shiver.) Some horror/dark fantasy<br /> has a tendency to get stale, with the same types of<br /> characters being overused, but Berman's have just the<br /> right amount of uniqueness to make them stand out.<br /><br /> A must-read for any fan of horror/dark fantasy and a<br /> great addition to gay fiction.	2003-06-28
