US	52129464	R3JOM06RN1WW9Z	0895260476	989380415	The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History	Books	2	37	66	N	N	History for Dummies	The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History attempts to bust some commonly-held and factually incorrect views of American history.  In a day when textbooks spend more time talking about Harriet Tubmann than Thomas Edision, a day when people think Calvin Coolidge was a contestant on survivor, it's hard to think of a more pressing need.<br /><br />But what a disappointment!  Woods spends a lot of his time busting myths that are already busted.  When even Noam Chomsky will admit (a little) the murderous history of communism, we don't need to beat the drum so loudly.  Anyone interested enough to read this book knows that the civil war was not a war of liberation.  Several current books have looked back on the Red Scare with a more judicious eye.  Plus, the book takes a strange turn on World War II.  Is Woods actually suggesting that we should have stayed out of the war?  Is the list of \\"important people\\" opposed to the war any more meaningful than the list of glitterati currently opposing Iraq?<br /><br />What most disappointed me is that Woods rails against the liberal establishment and its altered version of history.  But he never really gets into this subject.  The revision and PC-ing of schoolbooks over the last few decades is a serious problem and an invisible issue that needs to be addressed.  But he's content to just say, \\"Yeah, I'm sure you were taught this\\" and never really get into concrete examples.  A collection of damning quotes from popular textbooks would have been far more effective than vague rambling about \\"intellectuals.\\"<br /><br />There are better books out there.  This looks like someone cribbed a few chapters from Rush Limbaugh's book.  You will learn a lot more just going online and reading articles by Thomas Sowell or Walter Williams .  Don't waste your money on this echo chamber of a book.	2005-08-29
US	52129464	R3Y10TFLLUVZZ	0761135782	506965290	Baseball Prospectus 2005: Statistics, Analysis, and Insight for the Information Age	Books	5	16	23	N	Y	Another year, another triumph	Once again, the BP crew managed to get me fired up for the new season.  BP arrived in my mailbox just a few days ago and I've been tearing through it since, devouring the wonderful content. <br /> <br />What makes BP so good?  Well, first it provides wonderful analysis of the game, breaking down how teams succeeded or failed in the past year, pointing out not only what they did right or wrong last year but how their organizational philosophy over the last few years has affected their progress.  The BP crew delight in overturning conventional wisdom, kicking sacred cows and stimulating thought.  At least a couple of times every volume, I put it down for a few minutes and say, \\"Huh!  I never thought of that!  But it's so obvious!\\" <br /> <br />Second, they break down 1600 individual players, including any minor leaguer they think might make the majors.  They make predictions, own up to muffs from last year, point out a player's flaws or strengths.  As a tool for drafting your fantasy team, this is wonderful (and they have some great fantasy content on their website).  But it's far more interesting as a fan to just see what they make of a player's potential.  And what's best is they use not only the best prediction tool out there to project a player's future, but understand the limitations on that approach and try to see if a player likely to beat or fail his projection based on scouting, attitude, health, etc. <br /> <br />All this come wrapped up in a fan's delight in the game.  You can tell these guys are huge fans.  Sometimes, they like a player more than they should because he's just fun to watch.  And sure, they lean heavily on the stats.  But they always make it clear what the limitations of stats are. <br /> <br />For six years, my baseball season has started with the arrival of this book.  This year's volume does not disappoint.	2005-03-01
US	52129464	R1HNIWM2IT44Y5	0393307069	659543252	Post Captain (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Abaft the beam	Master and Commander is a very good book, no question.  But it is here -- the second book of the Aubrey/Maturin series -- that the epic adventures really catch hold of a fair wind -- one that runs for another 18 books. <br /> <br />Jack Aubrey is fresh off his sucess in the Med.  The Peace of Amiens has grounded him for a while, but he is loving life -- spending his time in a country estate splurging the promised money for the prizes he took in the war.  But the peace is not to last and very soon he and Maturin will be swept up in a resumed war against the tyrant Napoleon, but this time with just as much to worry about on land as at sea. <br /> <br />Post Captain is an entertaining adventure in its own right.  Jack's adventures aboard the Polychrest make for riveting adventure.  But what is great about this book is how it broadens the story and sprawls out.  Almost everything that follows in the series is set up here.  The world is fleshed out in much more detail -- the petty politics in the Admiralty; Jack and Stephen's romantic entanglements; the beginnings of Jack's financial difficulties.  Their characters come into sharper focus so that by the end of the novel, the careful reader can almost think with them and know how they will react to their situations.  These two men will become two of your favorite literary characters despite -- perhaps because of -- their all too human foibles.  The only two characters I can think of that work so well together are Sam and Frodo. <br /> <br />For those of you who -- like me -- enjoyed the first novel but wondered if something was missing, you will devour this volume.  I tentatively bought the first two volumes.  After this one, I went out and gathered up the entire series in hardback (expensive but worth it).	2005-02-08
US	52129464	R29KNYFR7O7I3B	068801836X	869623759	The Red Limit: The Search for the Edge of the Universe	Books	2	54	58	N	N	Book's OK, but....	The Red Limit is another of Timothy's Ferris excellent distilliations of astrophysics for public consumption.  As usual, he is skilled not only in making science concepts comprehensible but bringing into vivid detail the *story* of science -- how we know what we know.  It even includes the occasional philosophical discussion. <br /> <br />So why the low rating?  Because this book is twenty years old.  I had assumed that the reprint would maybe have some updated material, but it doesn't.  This is effectively a book on the State of Cosmology circa 1983. <br /> <br />Don't waste your money on this.  Ferris's own Whole Shebang is better written and more up to date.  You might also check out Lonely Hearts of the Cosmos, which is a very similar book but far better and has been updatee for the most recent discoveries.  Bill Bryson's Brief History of Nearly Everything only covers cosmology in basic detail, but is also far more up-to-date.	2004-12-05
US	52129464	R1FGU30H747VR1	0316289434	353156139	Lord Hornblower (Hornblower Saga)	Books	3	24	32	N	N	Good for half of it	This book started out so well.  After Horatio Hornblower's triumph in the Baltic, he is assigned an incredibly difficult duty.  He is to take back a ship that has mutinied against one of the most brutal captains in the Royal Navy.  The ship is only a few miles from escaping to France and recapturing it is going to take all of Hornblower's ingenuity.<br />When Lord Hornblower was dealing with this subject, I found it thrilling and captivating.  But halfway through, it changes to Hornblower entering France and taking part in the rebellion against the tottering Napoleon.  It was then that the novel ground to a screeching halt.  Hornblower's attempts to deal with the crown prince of France are amazingly dull and his later guerilla campaign was unbelievable.  Perhaps I was turned off by a developement with Bush halfway through that was abrupt and cold.  But for some reason, the last half of his book dragged for me -- a situation I'd never experienced before in a Hornblower book.<br />I would probably still recommend purchasing this book if you've come this far.  But don't get your hopes up.  This is a low point in the series.	2003-07-25
US	52129464	R2EAIHOTQNMWC8	0316289388	353156139	Commodore Hornblower (Hornblower Saga)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The saga continues	Commodore Hornblower is an excellent continuation of the adventures of Horatio Hornblower.  Fresh from his dramatic victory in Spain and France, Hornblower is dispatched to the Baltic.  His mission is to both frustrate Napoleon and support Russia, one of the few nations yet to be conquered by the tyrant.<br />The result is a tale that fits in perfectly with the Hornblower cannon.  Horatio's adventures in the Baltic cover the whole gamut from challenging French privateers to foiling assassination plots to fending off a siege in Riga.  And Forester levens the action with a constant reminder of the historical context.  1812 was possibly the most desperate year for England, when it seemed the whole world was against her.  (Although, perhaps with his audience in mind, Forester tacitly left out the fact that Britain was at war with America as well.  For history buffs, this omission is conspicuous.)<br />Hornblower is his usual compelling self -- brave, brilliant but with his dark sides.  He make decisions and has thoughts that would be considered far too complex and realistic for today's action heroes.  I found myself as fascinated by Hornblower himself as I was by the thrilling action scenes.<br />This is an excellent continuation of the Hornblower series.	2003-07-25
US	52129464	R38RWYG4MMYVM9	0684853515	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Should have stopped halfway through	Halfway through Hearts in Atlantis, I was thinking this was a four-star book.  The first and longest story in Stephen King's collection is an intruiging tale of a young boy in 1960 Maine and his relationship with a mysterious lodger.  It has interesting ties to the Dark Tower, but stronger ties to books like From A Buick 8.  We meet Bobby Garfield -- a young man on the brink of both adolescence and the 60's -- and we watch him try to work through the unexpected perils of watching for the Low Men in Yellow Coats -- a danger he think is a figment of the imagination before discovering that they are all too real.  It held my attention consistently and I was hoping the rest of the book would continue to do so.<br />Alas, it did not.  If there's anything worse than Baby Boomer self-indulgence, it's sulf-indulgent stories that lement that generation's self-indulgence.  The rest of the boook has tenuous and frankly unmoving ties to the trio of young characters in Low Men, telling about how several people move through the 60's to the 90's.  The title story about an out-of-control hearts game, is slow, dull and the climax feels forced.  The next two are the usual garbage positing that Vietnam was the first time people realized that war is hell.  The last is an unsatisfactory climax that tries to tie everything back together.<br />Contrary to popular belief, King *can* write good fiction that has no supernatural element.  I refer you his collection Four Seasons, for example, which contains three excellent non-supernatural stories.  But these stories are nowhere near that quality.<br />The frustrating thing is that there *was* a good story here somewhere.  Had King stuck with Bobby, Carol and Sully-John, the second half of the collection might have been interesting.  But as it is, it was a painful read, something I'm unused to from King.<br />Buy for the first story and then put this on the shelf.	2003-07-24
US	52129464	RGIM8KX4SBYY	0743241746	346074664	Rob Neyer's Big Book of Baseball Lineups: A Complete Guide to the Best, Worst, and Most Memorable Players to Ever Grace the Major Leagues	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A good addition to your baseball shelf	Rob Neyer's &quot;Book of Baseball Lineups&quot; is a solid addition to any well-stocked baseball shelf.  It goes right next to Bill James' glorious Historical abstract.<br />Lineups basically goes through the major leagues team by team.  We're given an all-time lineup for each team as well as best homegrown players, gold gloves, iron gloves, all-bust, all-name and used-to-be-great -- which catalogues what great players eeked out their declining years on a certain club. This is accompanied by little essays in the margins detailing certain selections and a short essay for each team addressing some topic.  The essays are actually pretty good, sort of like little columns that you might have missed on his espn gig.<br />Neyer has put together a rather unique look at the game.  Most books of this type look at the best players of all time from all of baseball, but Neyer's book focuses on *teams* and gives you a sense of the ebb and flow of each team's history.  You'll see how all thre greatest players in Royals history bunched up in the late 70's and early 80's, how Atlanta's best players all came in the 90's.  The traded away section will detail eras of stupid management for each team.  And in the back, you get year to year lineups.  <br />I can't think of any other book that does this.  Most books focus on the history of one team (usually the Yankees) or one great year (Yankees again, '27 or '98).  But this book will give you your first real sense of the history of other organizations like the Expoes and Brewers and so forth -- teams I didn't know HAD a history before I read this.<br />It's not as big, bad and beautiful as the Historical abstracts but this is a book you'll find yourself leafing through frequently.  Definitely worth buying.	2003-06-18
US	52129464	R3QQVXZKJ1TML	0316289361	341662961	Ship of the Line (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	4.5 stars -- Fantastic!	Ship of the Line is one of the highpoints of the Horatio Hornblower series -- a dazzling adventure built around three-dimensional characters that will have you running to the store to buy the sequel.  Do yourself a favor and buy Flying Colours when you buy this one.  Otherwise, you'll go crazy waiting to see what happens next.<br />Hornblower, flesh off his triumph in the Pacific, is now assigned to the least desireable two-deck ship of the line, the Sutherland, with only half the crew he needs.  Worse yet, he's assigned to duty under Admiral Leighton -- an inexperienced, over-cautious and frankly incompetent commander who also happens to have married the love of Hornblower's life -- Barbara Wellsley.<br />Will Hornblower overcome these obstacles?  You haven't been paying attention if you don't the answer to that already. He quickly becomes the \\"Terror of the Mediterranean\\", leading brilliant daring raids against the French on the coast of Spain and finally ending in a stunning battle against four French ships that is possibly the exciting, most heart-rending and most terrifying battle sequence Forester ever wrote.  It perfectly capture both the excitement and the horror of warfare.<br />As usual, it the character of Horatio that elevates this novel from historical drama to classic adventure.  He in introspective and moody, intelligent enough to be scared of battle but brave enough to face his fears.  He also represents the spirit of the Enlightenment in his disdain for the aristocracy and his belief that his men will fight better if they love him than fear him.<br />This ranks with Hotspur as the pinnacle of the series.  The only reason I didn't give it five stars was the occasional confusion over events and (wait for it) lack of maps.  Otherwise, this is a great story.	2003-06-09
US	52129464	R2OEJL2J57WTVP	0316289396	236338073	Flying Colours (Hornblower Saga)	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Hornblower's Triumph?	Flying Colours is the final of the three books that chronicle Hornblower's career as a captain.  Following immediately after the apocalyptic end to Ship of the Line, it follows Hornblower -- now awaiting trial for piracy by a furious Bonaparte -- as he tries to escape and get back to England.<br />Following as it does after the most exciting book in the series, this is a bit of a letdown.  It's slower and the drama is more in Hornblower's mind and heart than anywhere else.  He faces not only execution at Napoleon's hands, but -- even if he escapes -- trial and ruin in England for his surrender of the Sutherland.  His best friend Lt. Bush is crippled, he's cut off from his pregnant wife and secret love.  He's at the lowest point of his life.<br />Of course, you know he's not going to give up.  Flying Colours contrasts the vivid action of the novels by showing Hornblower finding his courage in life -- willing to face his own personal problems and demons -- to find the will to go on and try to overcome the seemingly insurmountable obstacles in his way.<br />It is in this book that the drama of the two previous ones finally pays off.  Other have spoiled the plot, but I will note that even if Horatio triumphs, it is not without sacrifice and loss.  And the ending has suitable irony -- and fits perfectly with Hornblower's democratic character.<br />The book does drag a little at times and I was disappointed that Hornblower seemed to forget about his surviving crew once he'd escaped.  That knocks the rating down.  But otherwise, this a stirring conclusion to the &quot;Captain&quot; trilogy and leaves enough plot threads open to send the reader off to buy the next volume.	2003-06-09
US	52129464	R8XOXAN501XQ4	0316289329	236338073	Hornblower: Beat to Quarters (Hornblower Saga)	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	4.5 stars	Although it was the first book C.S. Forester wrote, Beat To Quarters is chronologically the sixth book in the Hornblower Series.  One can see instantly why the series took off when this book hit the press.  It is not only a thrilling adventure but establishes a depth of character rarely seen in its genre.<br />This book is the first of a trilogy of connected titles that cover Horatio's rise from an unknown frigate's captain to one of the most famous officers in the Royal Navy.  Posted to duty west of Central America, he is expected to navigate not only the water of the Pacific, but the troubled political waters of rebellion and shifting alliances that characterized the Napoleonic wars.  He's required to engage a ship of twice his might not once but three times.  And of course, he meets Lady Barbara -- destined to become one of the most intruiging characters in his life.<br />I was surprised to find little discontinuity with the &quot;prequel&quot; books that were written after Beat to Quarters.  The book almost seamlessly blends with the cannon of Horatio's life, referencing his previous adventures with the Castilla and Captain Pellow.  The only real continuity problem is that Bush seems to have lost his memory of the events in the second and third books.<br />This books works because it doesn't try to confine itself to a simple genre.  It is, of course, a splendid action adventure and wonderful historical fiction.  But it also works as a simple character drama -- establishing three powerful characters -- the taciturn Hornblower, efervescent Bush and charming Barbara -- and creates memorable scenes built solely from conversation and interaction.	2003-05-30
US	52129464	R439ZO2XW9Q2U	0812522397	484188631	Children of the Mind (The Ender Quintet)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Xenocide's Afterbirth	Having deeply enjoyed the Ender series, I approached this book with interest, especially given the cliffhanger ending of Xenocide.<br />What a disappointment.  This book should have been compressed with Xenocide into a single volume.  The effort to stretch 100 pages of narrative to 350 pages of novel drains the spirit.  It it frequenty talky, preachy and repititive and not in a good way.  There are frequent conversations between characters that are almost jarring.  I find myself asking, \\"Does anyone talk like that?  Do people sit around and psychoanalyze each other?\\"<BR>There's also the problem where the fascination with eastern cultures that appeared in Xenocide (and was good in it) goes to an annoying extreme, with pretentious ruminations on Japanese and Samoan culture.<br />The book isn't terrible.  It has some good parts.  There ARE some fascinating ideas, even if they are plowed over too often.  The resolution of the various plot threads is enjoyable.  And you should read it if you've gotten this far.  But a huge amount of fat could have been trimmed away.  Prepare to spend quite a while reading this one.	2003-05-30
US	52129464	R1OD1CMKDAIKIC	0316289299	882666727	Hornblower and the Atropos (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	3	16	17	N	N	3.5 stars -- occasionally drags, but still good	I would put this chapter in the life of Horatio Hornblower in the same category as Mr. Midshipman Hornblower -- good, not great<br />The 5th book in the Hornblower saga concerns a number of events related to Horatio's first command as Captain -- a 22-gun sloop of war.  But it doesn't get there right away.  First, we get a rather slow segment of Horatio guiding a canal boat into London, then an even slower segment in which Horatio is put in command of Lord Nelson's funeral procession.  Both segments are interesting historically but drag in the narrative -- a rare occurance for Forester.<br />Once we get out to sea, the story picks with Horatio's tour of duty in the Mediterranean trying to recover sunken English treasure.  It reaches its pinnacle with the dramatic confrontation between Horatio and the Turks.<br />I'm not sure why this didn't grip me the way the other novels did.  There are some very good things about it -- the interesting dynamic with a German prince stationed aboard the Atropos for example.  But the story spend a lot of time wallowing in irons instead of the usual racing before the wind.  Horatio's character is static -- his usual daring and courage subdued.  And the ending is rather abruptly tacked on.<br />Still, I will recommend this book as a good part of the Hornblower saga.  But it's far from the best.	2003-05-02
US	52129464	R2VGYGJZ3I3ROX	0316290637	75936355	Lieutenant Hornblower	Books	4	11	12	N	N	4.5 stars -- fantastic	It's hard to write an objective review of Lieutenant Hornblower, chronologically the second novel in Forester's epic saga.  Put simply, this was the book that addicted me to Horatio Hornblower and condemned to spend a small fortune acquiring the entire series.<br />This tells the tale of Horatio's first real mission.  He is assigned to the Renown, a ship of the line destined to fight Napoleon in the Caribbean.  It is here that Horatio really begins to distinguish himself -- helping his crew deal with a mad captain, then leading them into the teeth of a powerful Spanish presence in Haiti.  We see his decisiveness, his daring and his courage -- as well as his darker side.<br />This book is cunningly different from others in the series in that Hornblower is not the main character.  Rather, we see him through Lieutenant Bush -- destined to become one of Horatio's closest companions.  At first, Hornblower seems distant and aloof.  With Bush, we question his abilities and courage.  And like Bush, we quickly see Horatio's heroism and intelligence.  And it ends with a flourish that will have you scrambling to amazon to buy the next volume.<br />Once again, I must deduct a little bit for Forester's occasionally opaque description of the working of a ship of the line.  But most of the time, he makes the action clear as crystal.  During the most intense rivetting action scenes, I was never confused as to what was going on.<br />This is where the Hornblower series really takes off.  Don't even hesitate to buy it.	2003-04-21
US	52129464	R209RYRETKTJIE	0316290467	764983778	Hornblower and the "Hotspur" (Hornblower Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	4.5 stars -- a thrill	The third book in Forester's Hornblower series is, like Lt. Hornblower, one heck of a ride and possibly the best in the series. In this novel, the freshly married Horatio is posted to blockade duty of Brest, France in his first command -- the sloop Hotspur. His duty is not an easy one. He is at sea for months on end, unable to see his new wife and often with nothing to do. This blockade duty is interrupted by occasional daring forays against Napoleon's navy, which explode with the action narrative that only Forester can deliver.<br />By now, the characters feel like old friends. Hornblower is still filled with doubt and an over-bearing conscience -- sometimes even unclear why he married Maria. But his courage and daring, his honor and leadership are finally making a name for him. Lt. Bush is solid and strong and his first officer. Even Admiral Cornwallis becomes familiar as Hornblower's mentor and admirer. And on shore there is Maria, Hornblower's tenuous link to the real world -- with her simple love for her husband.<br />I have only two complaints.  First is one you will find throughout my reviews of this series -- no maps. A map of Brittany would be the most helpful thing in the world while reading this novel. I was occasionally utterly confused as to what was going on (such as when Hornblower escapes a French frigate to the west -- which makes sense if you know the geography well).<br />My other minor complaint comes later in the series.  This was written after the original trilogy of Beat to Quarters, Ship of the Line and Flying Colours.  But it contradicts the continuity.  Many of the adventures that take place in this novel are \\"later\\" referenced as having taken place on the Indefatigable when Hornblower was a Lieutenant.  Bush seems to have forgetten the events in this book.  These problems in no way detracted from my enjoyment of the book, but retentive sticklers for continuity might be annoyed.<br />That trivia aside, this is a fantastic adventure.	2003-04-21
US	52129464	RW9FCTG9JTPB4	0316289442	128719673	Hornblower During the Crisis (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting to fans, other steer clear	It's hard to write a review of a Horatio Hornblower book that is less than superlative.  But I must in this case.<br />Hornblower during the Crisis is probably only of interest to Hornblower fanatics.  It is the incomplete (and unedited) beginning of a story Forester was writing when he died -- matched up with two short stories about Hornblower.<br />None of these stories are very good.  I'll avoid revealing plot details as all three hinge on unlikely and rather obvious plot twists.  The main story, which tells of the events between Hornblower leaving the Hotspur and the Battle of Trafalgar, drags a bit and stops right when it was going to get interesting.  The next tells of an event in Horatio's early history -- an unpleasant one that seems to contradict his character.  The last is an encounter near the end of his career and is rather amusing but not exciting in the least.<br />Again, this book might be worth buying if you are interested in completing a collection (although, even then, the price is ridiculous).  But casual readers should steer a course to the other ten novels.	2003-04-21
US	52129464	R3QEUTO20INQOE	0316289124	254335526	Mr. Midshipman Hornblower (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	3.5 stars -- a nice beginning	As the chronological beginning of C.S. Forester's epic Horatio Hornblower saga, Mr. Midshipman is reasonably good.  It is a collection of ten stories following Hornblower from the first moment he steps on board a ship (and promptly gets seasick) to his early triumphs that bring him to the brink of promotion.  In this novel, we begin to see the characteristics that will turn Hornblower into the one of the most compelling figures in literature -- courage and daring, yes -- but also self-doubt, introspection and his overwhelming sense of honor and duty.  We see the boy that will become a great man.<br />The only reason it does not get more stars is the episodic nature of the work.  It took me a while to warm to the character and get an idea of what was going on.  Granted, some of this is deliberate, as Hornblower is often enigmatic.  Also, as in most of the novels of the series, the naval terms and history were often poorly explained, forcing me to bone up on the history of the Napoleonic wars and the Royal Navy.  Of course, that's a *bonus* is you're a history buff like me.  For other readers, it might be a little frustrating.  But it is by no means a dramatic flaw.<br />As a stand-alone novel, Mr. Midshipman Hornblower is good.  As the beginning of the epic Hornblower series, however, it is a must-read and will only whet your appetite for the outstanding novels to come.	2003-04-21
US	52129464	R2VLFO87BKQC21	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Maybe It's Just Me	For once, I have to disagree with the glowing reviews that have been posted here.  Dreamcatcher is a substantially subpar novel from the usually talented pen of Stephen King.<br />Those of you who've read King now that his stories work so well because they combine believable human drama with horror.  His characters are alive and real -- which makes the horror all the more powerful when it comes to the fore.<br />In terms of the human drama, Dreamcatcher works very well.  The four principles characters -- Jonesy, Pete, Beaver and Henry -- have been friends since childhood.  During their childhood in Derry (familar to you readers of It), they saved a young boy with Down's Syndrom --  Duddits -- from the school bully.  Since then, they have had a telephatic link among them through this boy -- their dreamcatcher.<br />During their annual hunting trip, they are caught in the middle of an invasion by aliens that don't just seek to conquer the earth but to take over the very bodies of its inhabitants.  The book tells the story of how they are entangled in this conflict while slowly revealing the details of their past.<br />Like I said, the drama works well.  The characters are solid and their reactions to the aliens, to their paranormal power are all believable and strong.<br />But the horror falls flat on its face.  It's a like an episode of the X-files gone wrong.  It's a pity because King has some fascinating ideas -- particularly what it's like to be possessed by the alien and the nature of the alien itself.  But I was never really scared.<br />A useful comparison for this book is King's recent masterpiece &quot;From a Buick 8&quot; -- which concerns a similar subject.  Buick was everything this novel wasn't -- chilling, fascinating, believable and touching.  Buick 8's visceral horror had me turning the lights on and losing sleep.  Dreamcatcher had me nodding off in impatience.<br />The book has its enjoyable parts.  The finale is very good -- although it is proceededby a veeerrry slow midsection.  And as I said, the human drama works well.  But I would recommend many of King's other books before this one -- especially Buick 8.	2003-03-21
US	52129464	R131N6ZB26MIO2	1574885618	907968327	Baseball Prospectus: 2003 Edition	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Best BP yet	Baseball Prospectus just keeps getting better and better.<br />For those of you who don't know BP, it started out as a small publication doing annual analysis of baseball.  Over the last decade or so, its popularity has rocketed, providing a better annual every year and a popular baseball websites (baseballprospectus.com).  Each year, the annual contains an essay on each team, several essays on baseball topics in general, analysis of and performance projections for every major league player and every prospect and a top 50 prospects list.<br />I was concerned about BP2003.  Some of the staff have changed, a number of new tools are introduced and the website has become the primary focal point of their publication.  I needn't have worried.  BP2003 is the usual grand mix of irreverance, hard-hitting analysis and forecasting that we've come to expect.  The new PECOTA system not only projects future performance but contains probabilites that a player will have a breakout year or collapse completely.<br />BP is the first book I grab off the shelf when I see a player for the first time or want to analyze a trade or read about some cool prospect.  It's definitely worth buying.	2003-03-10
US	52129464	R3SZH7ELETLSJA	0671728687	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich: A History of Nazi Germany	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The definitive story of an evil regime	William Shirer's titantic (1250 pages) volume on the third reich is an awesome achievement.  Written by a journalist who witnessed the rise of Hitler first hand, then spent years combing through the mountain of documents left after the war, it is a definitive and comprehensive telling of how Adolf Hitler rose to the highest peak achieve by any conquerer and then fell into ashes, a victim of his own megalomania.<br />This is NOT a history of World War II.  Japan, the United States and other nations come into the story only so much as they impact Germany.  The internal politics of Russia, the US and UK are not touched on.  In fact, much of the military history is glossed over.  But that is the book's strength -- it keeps it tight focus on the question;  How did Hitler become so powerful and how did he fall from that lofty peak?  We start with an exploration of Hitler's life and personality, go through his rise to power (I was stunned to find out that the Nazis never actually won an election).  Then we get into the heart of the book -- Hitler's conquest of Austria and Czechoslovakia without a shot.  You'll find a vital lesson in history when you learn the France and Britain could have ended Hitler in a week had they stood by the Czechs instead of trying for \\"peace\\" and only fighting him when six years and tens of millions of lives had to be sacrificed.<br />The days preceeding WWII drag a bit. Shirer spends way too much time on negotiations over Poland -- negotiations that were ultimately false from Germany's side.  But then he hits Olympian heights again with his depiction of Hitler's insane war on Russia, the horrific regime he was putting in place and his ultimate collapse before the unimaginable armed might of the Allies.<br />The unexpected surprise for me was my sympathy for the German people.  Their country was reduced to ashes by their blind obedience to one of the most evil creatures our race has produced.  While I felt enormous satisifaction when justice finally found the most evil of Nazis -- I was saddened at the fate of the average German who knew nor cared little for conquest -- especially when I read that Hitler's ultimate plan on defeat was to raze his own country to the ground.  The defeat of the Nazis was not really a triumph but the necessary conclusion to the 20th century's worst tragedy.<br />This book is long and slow.  But when you put it down, you will understand World War II better than you ever have.lly found the most evil of Nazis -- I was saddened at the fate of the average German who knew nor cared little for conquest -- especially when I read that Hitler's ultimate plan on defeat was to raze his own country to the ground.  The defeat of the Nazis was not really a triumph but the necessary conclusion to the 20th century's worst tragedy.<br />This book is long and slow.  But when you put it down, you will understand World War II better than you ever have.	2003-01-31
US	52129464	RZRY26QZKDS3U	0553110845	257407410	House Corrino (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A good conclusion -- but again mostly for fans	House Corrino is the third volume in the House trilogy -- a compendium of books that tell the story of Duke Leto Atreides and the events that preceeded Herbert's epic novel Dune.  I've already posted reviews for the first two and the same theme runs through this one -- it's a good book, definitely worth the time of Dune fans but probably not for the casual reader.<br />Corrino is the best of the three books -- wrapping up most (but not all) of the threads from the previous two books into a thrilling conclusion.  The best parts deal with the attempt to create a substitute for the spice melange.  We finally see the horrible method of the Tleilaxu.  Also very strong is the portrayal of Leto Atreides -- who has grown from an uncertain teenaged ruler to a brilliant politician -- by the end of the book you'll wish HE were Emperor instead of reckless Shaddam IV.<br />Still, the book is not perfect.  The style is still a little torpid and irrelevant plot threads are still present.  However, both problems are reduced compared to previous books and the relevance of seemingly useless plot threads in the previous two books is explained.  Still, I could have done without Baron Harkonnen's attempt to learn polish and protocol.<br />If you've liked the first two books, you'll be very happy with this one.  It won't haunt you like Dune.  But it will entertain you for a few hours.	2003-01-31
US	52129464	R1CDKVMN8T1B15	0679433147	70746457	Rights of Man and Common Sense (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Still relevant, still excellent	Let us, for a moment, forget the historical and literary importance of Right of Man and Common Sense.  What if this book had just been published today?  Would it still be worth reading?  The answer is an unequival yes.<br />Althought many parts of this deal with specific issues of Paine's time (especially Rights of Man), even after two centuries, the writings of Thomas Paine are able to stoke the fires of liberty in the soul of the reader with their passion, their fierce logic and their unexpected humor.<br />Rights of Man comprises two long volumes written by Paine in response to English criticism of the French revolution.  Although much that he says is ironic in light of events that occured after he penned these volumes, you can see the hope that the Revolution produced.  He breaks government down to basic principles, pointing out the needs that government fulfills and the method by which they should be constructed.  It is thought-provoking, even in the modern day and will make you look on politics of our own time with a new light.  Rights of Man does drag a bit when Paine begins repeating himself, but it remains interesting and though-provoking.<br />But Common Sense is the real treat.  The pamplet that set a continent on fire is -- this was a surprise -- a thrill to read.  I found myself actually laughing at Paine's sarcasm and satire -- his way of taking monarchy and absolutism and exposing them for the ridiculuous constructions that they are.<br />Any student of history should read these volumes for their portrayal of late 18th century geopolitics.  But you will find them to be unexpectedly entertaining.	2003-01-31
US	52129464	R1NTWY05LBI4YK	0553580302	698766211	House Harkonnen (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	4	9	N	N	An improvement, but still probably only for Dune fanatics	My opinion of House Harkonnen is very similar to my opinion of House Atreides (see my review there).  Like its predecessor, House Harkonnen is slow and has too many plot threads.  Some of the most interesting ones (the fate of House Vernius; Abulurd Harkonnen's fight with his half-brother) are muffled in the huge number of stories being told -- we see Gurney Hallack and Duncan Idaho growing up, Duke Leto and Lady Jessica coming together, the birth of Feyd-Ruatha, etc.  And like House Atreides, this book suffers from our knowledge of the future (spoiler warning) -- we know Leto, Gurney and Duncan aren't going to die and that Shaddam IV will still be emperor in the future.<br />Still, it's a decent read -- especially for Dune fanatics like myself.  It fills in the history of the Imperium.  And the fight between the Tleilaxu and Vernius; between the Grumman and Ecaz -- are interesting.  In fact, the book might have been better had it focused entirely on these conflicts -- with Leto and the others serving merely as secondary characters.<br />The narrative style is improved and the higher rating I give this book is mainly due to the incredible villainy we get to see in House Harkonnen.  This actually *improves* your appreciation of Dune.  (Spoiler warning again).  You smile knowing these monster will eventually get what's coming to them.<br />And, of course, I'm buying the next book -- which tells my real opinion of this one (3.5 stars).	2002-12-14
US	52129464	R20XRCPBCT0YXO	0553580272	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Mainly for Dune fanatics	Writing a prequel to one of the greatest science fiction books ever written is no easy task.  Herbert and Anderson are to be commended for even trying to craft this work, based at least partially on the notes left by Brian's illustrious father.  Their success, however, is partial and this book is probably only of interest to Dune fanatics.<br />The book concerns events that happened a generation before Dune.  That's about as much as I can say about the plot because its principal fault is the lack of a narrative focus.  We are treated to Pardot Kynes starting his lifelong study of Dune, to Shaddam IV scheming to get control of the Empire, to a villanous plot to take over the planet of Ix and to the rise of Leto Atreides.  We even get information on the conception of Lady Jessica.<br />Any one of these stories might have worked but the attempt to put all of them together makes the book slow (at 600+ pages, it is longer than most of the Dune books).  A few threads should have been dropped.<br />Additionally, the suspense of the book is watered down when you've read Dune.  You know what the outcome of Leto's trial by forfeiture will be; you know how the Baron's breeding will work out.  The really interesting stuff concerns Ix and House Vernius and I could have used a lot more of that and a lot less of Lady Jessica's conception.<br />The book's appeal is not helped by the authors' style which is slow and repitive.  They will tell you about the balance of power in the Empire at least a dozen times.  This can be contrasted with Herbert the Elder's style, which was crisp and quick -- so much so that you really have to pay attention to know what was going on.  This book is a lot more dumbed down.<br />Hmmm.  It sounds like I'm panning the book.  I'm not.  It's not *bad*, it's just not *great*.  It was an enjoyable read and I found the filling in of Dune's background interesting.  Although I knew the eventual outcome, the last hundred pages had me reading rapidly, eager to see what happened.   I was reminded of the appendices to Lord of the Rings -- which lack the narrative verve of the novel but are fascinating if you love the world Tolkien created.  This is the same -- it lacks the power and lyricism of Dune but is fascinating if you're interested in the history of the Imperium.<br />The ultimate point is that I went out and bought House Harkonnen after reading this.  That should tell you how much I liked it.  But then again, I loved Dune.  And that's the point of my review.  If you loved Dune, you'll like this book.  If not, save your money.	2002-12-14
US	52129464	RVMM8QLGN0EUA	0743235150	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Must-Have for King fans	If you're a fan of the works of Stephen King, you NEED this book -- badly. It has something for everyone -- straight drama, bone-chilling horror, the Dark Tower -- all told with King's usual skill.  It includes the e-book Riding the Bulley and audio books Blood+Smoke and LT's Theory of Pets.  They also include a few liner notes from King on each story telling a little bit about where it came from, what he thinks of it, etc.<br />I've written little mini-reviews below of teach story.  I'm sure plenty of people will disagree with me on one story or another.  But that's the point.  You're certain to find something you like.<br />1) Autopsy Room Four -- a man is brought in for autopsy -- but is he really dead?  A nice little horror story.<BR>2) The Man in The Black Suit -- A young boy runs into a terrifying stranger in the woods.  Typical King -- reign you in with the characters, then turn on the horror.  A pleasure.<BR>3) All That You Love Will be Carried Away -- a strange little drama about a man in a hotel room and his obsession with graffiti.  I didn't like this at first but it's grown on me.<BR>4) The Death of Jack Hamilton -- a story of Depression Era gangsters, complete with John Dillinger.  Straight drama but a little unsatisfying -- it's not really his forte.<BR>5) In the Deathroom -- from Blood+Smoke.  A claustrophic story of a journalist taken prisoner by a 3rd world government.  A drama and an unlikely one at that.  Just OK.<BR>6)  The Little Sister of Eluria -- a tale of Roland the Gunslinger before we met him on his quest for the Dark Tower.  If you're a DT fan, this make EE a must-have book.  The style and especially the ending are pure Dark Tower.  How I've missed it.<BR>7)  Everything's Eventual -- good horror story with shades of Lovecraft about a young man with a strange talent and an even stranger job.  It's good, but the political shift at the end was a little jarring.<BR>8) LT's Theory of Pets -- Drama with a touch of horror about a man describingthe breakup of his marriage.  Touching and funny.<BR>9) The Road Virus Heads North -- horror story of a haunted painting.  Just OK.  He's written this story before -- and much better -- in the Sun Dog and Rose Madder.10)  Lunch at the Gotham Cafe -- vicious little story from Blood and Smoke about a crazy Maitre'D who interrupts a divorcing couple at lunch.  Good, but not great.<BR>11) Deja Vu -- strange and scary story about a woman going on vacation with her husband.  Follows on a theme that first appeared in Storm of the Century<BR>12) 1408 -- My favorite.  From Blood and Smoke.  A truly frightening tale about a haunted hotel room.<BR>13) Riding the Bullet -- mixture of drama and horror.  About a young man hitchhiking home to see his ailing mother.  Drama works very well, horror doesn't.<BR>14) Lucky Quarter -- an odd story about a hotel maid who is tipped a whole quarter -- perhaps a lucky quarter?  A poor finish to the collection.	2002-11-07
US	52129464	R1M69FG8JTYA3	0743520041	989781532	LT's Theory of Pets	Books	3	3	3	N	N	3.5 stars, but an important caveat	Stephen King's LT's Theory of Pets is a good, somewhat funny, slighty touching story of the demise of a marriage.  It has some faint hints of horror at the end, but nothing to write home about.  It's more in the spirit of the first three tales in Four Seasons -- a straight drama.  This particular reading of it is enjoyable as King has a good reading style and the book is funnier heard than read.<br />However, I can only recommend this to big King fans who have a yen to hear him read the story.  LT, along with the e-book Riding the Bullet and Audio Book Blood+Smoke, is in the short story collection Everything's Eventual (see my review there).  So if you're just interested in the story -- and could care less for the medium -- buy that.	2002-11-07
US	52129464	R3R6EQWDPM9EB	0671046179	815342548	Blood And Smoke Cd	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Stories are good, but . . .	Blood and Smoke is an audio collection of three Stephen King short stories.  All three are great.  Lunch at the Gotham Cafe concerns the events than transpire when a divorcing couple meet at a restaurant where the Maitre'D isn't quite dealing with a full deck.  It's a good but not great story.  The Deathroom is a claustrophobic and probably improbable tale of a journalist taken in for questioning by a third world government.  1408 is the real prize on this collection -- a chilling tale of a haunted hotel room that cost me several hours of sleep.<br />BUT.  But.  All three stories are now available in written form in the collection Everything's Eventual.  You do not have to buy this audio tape if you plan to buy that book -- that is unless you have a yen to hear King read his stories (and do a fairly good job of it).	2002-11-07
US	52129464	R3CM2863I0DE7I	0345325818	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Approach with open eyes	If you've wandered onto this page, you've probably already read either the Hobbit or Lord of the Rings or both and are hungry for more.  The Silmarillion will deliver that --- sort of.<br />The Silmarillion is not a tale in the tradition of LOTR.  It is a compilation of the historical stories Tolkien wrote as the background for that magnificent work.  It fleshes out the details of the stories only hinted at in the poems and appendices of the Lord of the Rings.  Here you will find out how Middle Earth was created, how the elves fell from grace, about the War of the Jewels between Morgoth -- to whom Sauron was but a servant -- and the sons of Feanor -- the fiercest and most powerful elf ever born.  It even includes one appendix on Ahkallabeth -- the downfall of Numenor and one on the Rings of Power.  You will be able to read all about the treachery of Sauron the Deceiver and his war with men and elves.<br />HOWEVER --- the story is not told like LOTR.  It's more like a history book.  The characters mostly exist as historical figures.  The first story especially -- Music of Ainur -- does not fare well in the leadoff spot.<br />On the other hand, there are some stories that are simply amazing. The tale of Beren and Luthien Tinuviel is one of the most touching and epic love stories ever penned (Tolkein, in fact, had his wife's tombstone engraved to &quot;Tinuviel&quot;).  The story of Turin Turambar is a heartbreaking Greek-style tragedy.  The confrontation between Fingolfin and Morgoth is amazing.  Reading the Similarilion is like reading a history book and finding an epic poem in the middle of it.<br />If you, like me, read the appendices to LOTR in rapture, you'll love this book. Buy it in hardback and treasure every word.  On the other hand, if you found those boring, then you should probably buy the paperback and flip foward to the best stories.  Otherwise, you'll probably put it on your shelf, forget about it, and deprive yourself of some of the best stuff to evercome out of the golden pen of Tolkien.	2002-09-09
US	52129464	R2USIMYL5TZMW	0618126996	254771100	The Atlas of Middle-Earth (Revised Edition)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	A Great Complement To the Books	Again, this review is addressed to LOTR fans who have wandered onto this page and are wondering whether this book is worth their hard-earned money.<br />Karen Fonstad brought the eye of a scientist to the art of Tolkien to produce one of the must useful supplements to LOTR and especially the Silmarillion that I've ever found.  <br />Fonstad fills in many of the details of Tolkien's world, using her skills as a cartographer to make incredibly detailed maps and drawings (many taken from Tolkien's own maps and drawings that never made it into LOTR) of the locations in the books.  You will now know exactly where everything in the novel is located and what it looks like.<br />However, this book is not really that much of a complement to LOTR.  Tolkein described everything in that story in fairly explicit detail.  The REAL strength of this book are the maps and detailed decription of the events BEFORE the journey of the hobbits.  It includes many many detailed maps of the world during the first three ages, as well as summations of the history.  You will finally know where the wainriders came from, how the war of the Last Alliance was fought, where numenor was, how the War of the Jewels was fought.  The section on the Lord of the Rings is actually the least interesting part of the book (which is praising with faint damnation -- the only way you could know more about the journey of Frodo is if he'd been on CNN).	2002-09-09
US	52129464	R2P7YDLF2GOTXC	0393320081	470778899	Baseball Dynasties: The Greatest Teams of All Time	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Sure to start an arguement	Neyer and Epstein's Baseball Dynasties is an entertaining and easy read that is also a thought-provoking book about baseball.  Neyer (a regular columnists on ESPN.com) and Epstein (former managment for Orioles and Padres) introduce a method of measuring the dominance of teams -- the SD score.  It is a way of estimating whether a team's success was truly a result of being a giant among men -- or whether it was because the talent in the league was so unevenly distributed.  They identify 15 of the most dominant teams and break them down -- offense, defense, pitching, bench, how they were built, how the fell, etc.  Each chapter is also graced with several small essays discussing fascinating aspects of each team.<br />The book has its flaws.  The attributing of each little section to Rob or Eddie could have been left out and makes the book feel choppy.  I think it could have benefited by being written after Bill James' book on Win Shares (then again, so could almost every baseball book).  It might even have been preferable for them to talk about lesser-known teams or fewers details but more teams.  Do we really need more information on the 1927 Yankees?  I didn't think so.<br />I also think they should have looked at different KIND of dynasties.  For example, teams like the 90's Braves, 80's Cards, 60's Reds, 60's-70's Pirates or 70's-80's Royals that weren't particularly dominating in any one year or short span of years, but were consistently good for a long span of time.  Interviews with old-timers would have been nice but probably impractical.  But I guess these complaints fall under one category -- the book is way too short.  This subject deserves a &quot;Historical Abstracts&quot;-like tome that you could really wade into over the course of a few weeks rather than one you can zip through on the weekend.<br />But the book makes up for these short-comings with the fairness with it treats the topic.  You'll realize that the early 50's Yanks weren't that good, despite their five championships.  The league was just poorly balanced.  You'll realize the early 70's Orioles were truly a great team.  It avoids the common trait in &quot;best teams that ever was&quot; arguements of assuming that whatever team dominated the youth of the authors was the best.  It's the best book of its type out there.	2002-06-21
US	52129464	R2A9DYNR04F60L	1931584036	643763646	Win Shares	Books	4	31	31	N	N	For die-hards, mostly - 3.5 stars	Bill James latest book, Win Shares, is probably mostly of interest to really die-hard stathead baseball fans.  Win Shares, as a tool for evaluating players, is of great interest to fans.  It is a quantum leap forward in the analysis of ballplayers, allowing the evaluation of players based on a single number without the biases and problems built into linear analyis.  And it is the first to correctly account for defense -- both in recognizing great defensive players and taking credit away from pitchers who thrived because of their defense.<br />This book, in particular, however, is one that all but the most diehard statheads will find a tad disappointing.  The first 100 pages of the book is concerned with constructing the system and running it through three examples.  I found this interesting because I was fascinated by the construction of this system.  James does an excellent job of justifying his methodology and is sensitive to the fact that this is the first version of Win Shares -- it can stand improvement.  But it might get tedious if numbers don't fascinate you.<br />The second section details why he made some of the decisions he made in constructing the system.  The third section is what most people will find interesting -- a long section of Jamesian essays looking at ROY awards, MVP awards, comparing various players, finding good players on bad teams, extreme teams (all hitting or all defense), etc.  Great stuff.<br />The fourth section is like Baseball Enyclopedia -- a listing of win shares for every team in baseball history, with detailed breakdowns for certain players.  If you're fond of finding out who was the most valuable player on the 1982 Brewers or whether Don Sutton really WAS that good, you'll have fun.  But if the baseball encyclopedia or baseballreference.com don't fascinate you, this won't either.<br />I feel I should defend this book from some criticism.  Just because James' conclusions don't mesh with your prejudices doesn't make him wrong.  James statement that baseball is 37% pitching will surprise some -- until you realize that pitching AND defense combined for 52%.   Someone's got to catch the ball.  The numbers don't lie on this one -- they are very clear and his win share system does predict the actual W-L record of teams very well.  As for comparison of players . . . well, Jeff Conine WAS better than Troy Glaus -- in 2001.  Conine played in a pitcher's park with a terrible offense.  Glaus played in a hitter's park on a decent offense.  But that's the beauty of win shares.  If you look at their careers, Glaus is clearly the better player and has a MUCH brighter future, even if Conine was marginally better during his career year.  The system is fair in evaluating players in different ballparks, different eras and on different teams.<br />For the die-hard stathead, this book is very good.  For the more casual fan, I recommend the Historical Abstract.  You'll find it an easier and more entertaining read.	2002-04-28
US	52129464	R29JU1YCVW50EO	0684828154	416559835	The Landmark Thucydides:  A Comprehensive Guide to the Peloponnesian War	Books	4	12	15	N	Y	Outstanding edition of a classic - 4.5 stars	Thucydides is yet another classic work that should be required reading.  Its depiction of the Peloponnesian war and life in the ancient world is reason enough to read it.  This was an important time when the Greek poleis city-states, fresh from their victory over Persia, destroyed any hope of a Greek/Athenian empire and laid the ground for Alexander's conquest.  However, even for those uninterested in Greek history, Thucydides is a remarkable read, given its profund insight into war and democracy.  The decline and fall of the Athenian Empire is a story rife with lessons for the modern world -- we can see many of our own modern troubles mirrored in ancient Athens.  One can see how a democracy fails when its leader follows the mob, as Nicias did, rather than leads the mob, as Pericles did.<br />Thucydides style is sometimes complicated, but reaches wonderful heights in the Pericle's funeral oration and the disaster in Sicily.  The only real flaw in the book is that he never finished it.  It cuts off abruptly in the 21st year of the war.  Thucydides clearly was writing after the war was over, given some of his ominous references to the eventual fate of Hellas.  One can only speculate why he never finished his history.<br />The natural contrast to this work is the History of Herodotus, who wrote shortly before Thucydides on the Persian Wars.  Thucydides style is a lot drier but more objective.  He is very detailed, sometimes too much so (the book is very long).  To his credit, he is far more discriminating than Herodotus in finding truthful accounts and leaving out colorful myths.  He has an astounding 100+ speeches transcribed.  However, he occasionally assumes that the reader understand his frame of reference and spend little time describing the culture and lands of Hellas -- a shortcoming compared to Herodotus.<br />This edition is outstanding.  It is THE edition you should buy (I wish they had one of the Histories).  There are informative appendices written by various scholars, the translation is lively and clear, there are copious footnotes and, most importantly, tons of maps.  I was never confused as to what was going on.<br />I have to deduct half a star for the incompleteness of the work and the somewhat incomplete description of the Hellenic world.  But this book comes with an unqualified recommendation.<br />Note:  Since the Persian wars preceeded the Pelopennesian, I would recommend reading Herodotus first.	2002-04-11
US	52129464	R10N955PLW81HM	0147712556	627065254	The Iliad / The Odyssey	Books	4	9	12	N	Y	Fascinating - 4.5 stars	The Iliad was not quite what I expected.  It doesn't have the lyricism and imagery of other epic poems such as Paraside Lost or the Inferno.  Its metaphors are sometimes crude and very wordy.  It is also an extremely violent book -- large sections of the text are devoted to describing the deaths of warriors in graphic detail.  It is also sometimes repititious, which is partly a result of having evolved from an oral tradition in which repitition allowed the poet more time to improvise the next segment of poetry.<br />However, it is still a powerful poem.  The story is not what you might expect.  There is no Trojan horse, no golden apples.  It starts in the ninth year of the siege of Troy as Achilles, enraged by the actions of Agammemnon, breaks from the Argives and sulks in his tent.  This sets in motion a chain of events that will result in a clash between himself and the great Trojan hero Hector.  All of this unfolds next to a second tale - the fighting amongst the Olympian gods as they determine the destiny of Troy and the heroes from both armies fighting for it.<br />The Iliad unfolds novelistically.  We start with the rage of Achilles in the plains of Troy.  Gradually, slowly, the background is revealed - the reason for the Argive invasion of Troy, the reason for the rage of Achilles.  It is only very late in the book that the reasons for Hera's hatred of Troy and the tight bond between Patroclus and Achilles is explained.<br />Although there are many characters in the book, Achilles is the most powerful.  Passionate, temperamental, arrogant, brutal and courageous.  In many ways, he comes across as the villian.  He is opposed by Hector -- also arrogant and brutal, but a family man.  Hector is both admired and loved by the Trojans.  Achilles is admired by the Greeks, but not loved.  The characters of Patroclus, Odysseus and Agamemnon are also well-defined.<br />The Odyssey is a completely different sort of work.  Whereas the Iliad is grand in scope and tells many overlapping stories, the Odyssey is tightly focused on the story of Odysseus's return to his beloved Ithaca.  The Iliad is about war and glory, the Odyssey about home and family.  One is clearly the work on an older Homer, assuming they come from the same author at all.  The Odyssey is more descriptive, less crude in its imagery and the narrative line is cleaner, mostly because of the narrowed subject matter.  One wonder if Homer intended it as part of a series of poems about the Greeks returning from troy.<br />The Odyssey was again not what I expected.  It start with Odysseus's son, Telemachus, watching Penelope's suitors devour the fruits of his father's kingdom.  Telemechus leaves on a voyage to find word of his father.  This segues into Odysseus's return from a seven-year stay with Calypso. He is shipwrecked on Phaeacia, where, after being received by the King of Phaeacia, he unfolds the tale of the journey that landed him on Calypso's isle.  The last half of the book deals with eventual return to Ithaca and his dealing with Penelope's suitors.<br />Homer's style is still songlike and lyrical.  His description of the journey to the underworld is especially vivid.  And Odysseus is expanded into a complex character - cunning, brave, suspicious - and of course the tragic flaw that creates the Odyssey - proud.<br />Fagles translation is probably the most unique you will run across.  It translates the poems into vivid, song-like language that probably best reflects what the poems sounded like when Homer sang them.  I find some fault with his occasionaly use of modern idiom (the overuse of phrases like &quot;cut -and-run&quot;, etc.).  But it is an easier and more enjoyable read than the more classic translations that favor more stilted prose.<br />Also, read the introductions.  Although they are long, they are fascinating, especially in the discussion over the debate on the origins of the Iliad and the Odyssey.  It will also help you appreciate some of the phrasesused repeatedly in the poems (&quot;swift-footed Achilles&quot;, &quot;long-haired Argives&quot;, etc.&quot;).used repeatedly in the poems (&quot;swift-footed Achilles&quot;, &quot;long-haired Argives&quot;, etc.&quot;).	2002-01-08
US	52129464	R2JJFMYTA7ABBN	0553565079	834333861	Forward the Foundation	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Only for the faithful	As I recall, Asimov died while still working on this book. It shows.  The book has a rushed feel. There is a lot of interesting stuff here, but it is not explored with Asimov's usual brilliance.  The characters are also poorly drawn, especially that of Dors Venabili.  That may actually be Asimov's fault as he was never very good at writing women characters -- certainly not in the same class as, say, Robert Heinlein.  It's telling that several years after I read the entire series, I can clearly remember the plots of most of the books vividly, but had to thumb through Forward again to remind myself of what happened.<br />If you're a huge Foundation fan (like me), it's probably worth buying and reading, just to complete your journey through the Foundation series.  It's not a BAD book, afterall.  But for those of you new to Asimov in general and the Foundation series in particular, this is the wrong place to start.	2001-12-14
US	52129464	RY7FU8JYFX2YP	0671741926	818442828	The Mote in God's Eye	Books	5	24	27	N	N	One of the best	The Mote in God's Eye is, quite simply, one of the best science fiction novels you will ever read.  It is easily one of my top five books of all time.  In the cannon of sci-fi, I would place it on the shelf next to Dune, Foundation and Stranger in a Strange Land.  What do these books have in common?  Very little.  That's the point.  The Mote in God's Eye, like all great books, stands on its own.  If it the first sci-fi book or the millionth, you will still love it.<br />Written by Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle (and quietly improved by the advice given them by Robert Heinlein) it is breathtaking in its depiction of mankind's first contact with an alien civilization.  The story takes place in a human star empire that spans thousands of systems but has yet to contact alien intelligence.  This changes suddenly when a spacecraft arrives at a human planet with a dead alien inside it.  The craft was apparently launched from a nearby unexplored star system  -- called the Mote in God's Eye (or Murcheson's Eye).  The humans send out an expedition of two ships -- one Russian, one American -- to investigate.  What they find is an ancient civilization of three-armed &quot;Moties&quot; who have a terrible secret.<br />As noted by other reviewers, this is the best first contact book out there.  There are no Vulcans or Ewoks here.  The book is one of the few that presents a truly alien civilization.  The alien culture is, although similar to ours in some ways, fundamentally different from our own due to differences biology and circumstances.  I won't elaborate as I don't want to ruin the surprises.<br />Although there is clearly some cannon of mythology at work in setting up the &quot;Co-Dominion&quot; of human society at that time, I was not confused at all.  I had never read a title by these two authors before but found the human society and its history easy to follow.<br />What's amazing about the book is how logically it proceeds.  To use the word &quot;surprise&quot; is misleading because after at every twist and turn, you find yourself saying, &quot;Of course, that's exactly the way it would have to be.  That makes sense.&quot;  As the suspense and tension build toward a climactic clash between humans and Moties, you are swept up in the inevitability of the events.  There are no trick deus-ex-machina moments or Tom Clancy tricks -- in which the characters talk about some secret without the dialogue being revealed.  Everything is perceived through the lens of the human characters and their difficulty in understanding the alien civilization.  So their fear, tension and surprise are ours.<br />All this comes through with a crisp narrative style, a group of vivid and identifiable characters (including Moties) and excellent pacing of the story.  I highly recommend this book to any reader -- sci-fi fan or not.	2001-12-14
US	52129464	R3T7HKZCMY9EYC	0684806975	568576361	The New Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract	Books	5	73	73	N	Y	Awesome	If you like baseball books, in depth analysis and have a keen interest in the history of the game ... you NEED this book.<br />Bill James' revision to his classic historical abstract weighs in at a hefty 1000 pages and a big price tag.  But it's worth it.  You really get two books.<br />Book I:  A decade-by-decade look at the game.  As James says in his preface, he's not trying to give times and dates.  Each section gives the reader a feel for what baseball was like in that decade - who the popular players were, how they played, where they played. Who was the biggest player, the smallest player, which team had the best infield, best outfield, best pitchers.  He gives an OJ Simpson award for each decade, a Clint Hartung award for the biggest flop, the Paul Krichell award for the dumbest trades and signings.  He also details the biggest problems the game had in each decade.  You can read a chapter and almost hear the fans debating Wagner vs. Cobb, commenting on what a jerk Rogers Hornsby was and venting frustration as New York teams dominated the 1950's.  He also has one section on the Negro Leagues.  The last section has his (brilliant) solutions to the problems the game has in the 90's.<br />Book II introduces James' new method of player evaluation -- Win Shares.  A quantum leap forward in analysis, Win Shares quantifies everything a player contributes - pitching, hitting and defense -- in terms of how many WINS it brought his team.  This corrects for park effects, different eras (you'll be surprised to learn how good those 60's hitters were) and is a massive improvement in evaluation of defense.  He rates the top 100 players in history based on career value, peak value, clutch performance, etc.  This top 100 includes 12 Negro League players and has some surprises (Oscar Charleston at #4).  He rates the top 100 players at each position.  Some of this can get dull when you get down to the low #'s.  But you'll learn a lot, such as that the 1901 Beaneaters had the bestpitching staff of the decade, that Arky Vaughn was the #2 all-time shortstop and that Craig Biggio and Barry Bonds are two of the best all-time at their position (this was written before Bonds' historic 2001 season and Biggio's 2001 comeback).<br />One last thing.  Throughout the book, James' cites reference to other great baseball books.  You could build an amazing baseball library just from his bibliography.<br />All of this comes with James' wit, insight and love of the game.  He combines hard-boiled statistical analysis with an apprection of the intangible aspects of the game.	2001-11-13
US	52129464	R214U868FA55C2	0871138255	745066592	The CEO of the Sofa	Books	3	25	25	N	Y	OK for O'Rourke fans, not for novices.	CEO of the Sofa is an uneven book.  It's basically a collection of some of P.J.'s writings on everything from Hillary Clinton to driving to being a new father.  It is linked together in an homage to Holmes' &quot;The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table&quot; as a series of diatribes P.J. unleashes on the Democrats next door, his assistant, his wife, his daughter, his godson and the baby sitter (usually as his alter ego, the Political Nut).<br />I can't, in good faith, recommend this book to non-P.J. fans.  The wit is there but the book lacks the coherence, factual analysis and dogged persistence on a subject that characterize his best books - Eat the Rich, Parliament of Whores and All the Trouble in the World.  Even his previous collections - Vacations in Hell, Give War a Chance and Age and Guile - had related articles sandwiched together in sections.  This just sounds like someone rambling on and on from topic to topic with no rhyme or reason.  If you're not familiar with O'Rouke, I recommend the above-mentioned books, which are excellent.<br />Some of the stuff in the book is very good.  Some of it isn't.  His open letter to Democrats, his discussion of how being a parent changed his outlook, his (well-deserved) lambasting of Hillary and his analysis of the impeachement scandal in which no side is spared his sharp tongue, are top notch.  But the CEO linkages annoyed me.  Moreover, he took his old articles and pasted in asides to his (fictional) audience.  The pasting is obvious and the asides are unnecessary and distracting.  If he'd just done this as a coherent collection of his writings, it would probably be a 3.5-4 star book.  As it is, it's 3-3.5 stars for PJ fans, probably less for novices.	2001-10-16
US	52129464	R1FIJNNTF1IAMU	0451628047	22760455	The Divine Comedy: Volume 1: The Inferno	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Excellent edition	Dante's Inferno, the best of the three books of the Divine Comedy, is a revelation.  The imagery is powerful, the language wonderful, it description of damnation almost terrifying.  It is one of the most vivid religious books ever written, on par with Paradise Lost.  Dante does not just recite catholic cannon, however.  He has many contemporary references to Italian politics (a subject I knew little about before reading the Divine comedy), to church politics, to classical works such as Homer and Herodotus.  To read it is to see the world in the middle ages, long before the reformation.  Do not be intimidated by the prospect of reading a 14th century epic poem.  After the first page, the style will become familiar and you will revel in the intricate detail of Dante's underworld.<br />As for this particular edition, it is excellent.  Ciardi gives a very good translation and, unlike other translators, preserves Dante's occasional scatalogical references and profanity.  In addition, there are several useful maps of the Inferno as well as copious, informative (and necessary) endnotes at the finish of each Canto.  The only way the edition could be better is if the notes were at the bottom of the page, but the Cantos are short enough that flipping to the end to read the endnotes is not the finger-breaking maneuver you might find in other editions.	2001-09-23
US	52129464	R1ZCEXZTMD5GO3	0375400613	507883304	The Histories (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	67	67	N	Y	Excellent Edition	I was surprised to find the Histories to be so readable and enjoyable.  I'm not used to thinking of a history book as a page-turner but the last four chapters of the Histories, which describe the Persian wars, were compelling reading.  That's not to slight the first five book, which describe the world of Herodotus' time and the rise of the Persian, Egyptian and Greek Empires in fascinating detail.<br />Despite the rather formal language of the translation, the Histories are very engaging.  Herodotus not only illuminates critical details of historical events but enlivens them with anecdotes and legends, some of this likely apocryphal.  Rawlinson's translation is very good and his footnotes, despite their age, are outstanding.  The best thing is that they are footnotes, not endnotes, so you won't break your fingers constantly flipping to the back of the book.<br />One critical missing element, however, is a map.  A map of the world in Herodotus's time (such as I found online) would really make a lot of the events clearer.<br />In the time since I have read Herodotus, I have begun to appreciate how his Histories are the cornerstone of a classical education.  The Histories are constantly referenced in western literature in everything from the Divine Comedy to the English Patient to Lawrence of Arabia to Ball Four.<br />If you're trying to give yourself a good foundation in history and western culture, this is the best place to start.	2001-06-11
