US	52123042	R3PBF3T7BCCIFI	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	read it in one afternoon---a real mystery treat!	I read several Amazon reviews of THE NO. 1 LADIES' DETECTIVE AGENCY before picking up a copy myself. It's not often I read a book cover to cover in one sitting, but I couldn't help myself with A.M. Smith's first in this charming series featuring Precious Ramotswe.<br />The biggest plus of the book is the author's descriptions of Precious' life as she sets up her detective agency, after selling livestock left to her by her father. She says that as a young woman, she took a job as a bookkeeper, which showed her she had a knack for figuring not only numbers, but problems in everyday life. Thus the motive for turning her talents to detective work.<br />In this first episode, Precious investigates a man accused of medical fraud, a husband suspected of adultery and another man accused of a horrendous murder. The murder suspect's story was the most disturbing in a book that has an overall playful and cheerful tone. The descriptions are not graphic; rather it is the circumstances of the murder I found unsettling because of the victim's age.<br />Looking very much forward to reading the next books in the series. I do hope Mr. Smith has several more planned beyond the four he has already written.	2003-06-14
US	52123042	R1UA9PA7ZP17O2	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I'm not a great fan of American History books, however....	I'm not a great fan of American History books, however after having read many other reviewers' comments on THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, I felt the need to at least try reading it. I can say without reservation it was well worth the time, and it didn't take very much time at all. I read it in four short evenings after work, and the bibliography offers even more possibilities to add to my reading list. <br />The author researched numerous sources as evidenced by not only the extensive bibliography, but the exhaustive footnotes that take up a few dozen pages after the epilogue. This is not a cursory recounting of the events surrounding the Chicago Columbian World Exposition (which came to be known more readily as the World's Fair) but a very well-written, well-documented and at times disturbing and enthralling look back at the birth of a great American city. <br />I had little idea that Chicago had such a tumultuous history surrounding not only the Exposition, but also that of the city's inhabitants and its rapidly growing importance as a hub of national commerce and industry. I have not had the chance to visit Chicago, but having read the book makes me want to do so all the more. <br />On the flip side, there is the story of one of America's earliest known serial killers, a man who called himself H.H. Holmes--Holmes as in the great detective Sherlock Holmes. Henry Mudgett was obviously a gravely evil man who took advantage of the place and times he lived in. The first chapters of the book that tell of his early exploits literally left me feeling quite disturbed and wondering what details would be revealed later. To say I felt a sense of unease while reading about him would be an understatement. This is not like reading a fictional account of a character like Hannibal Lecter or some such \\"killer.\\" This is a true story, and it is more disturbing than anything I can remember.<br />Highly recommended for those interested in American History, True Crime, or just a very good book!	2003-05-16
US	52123042	R1OPPDAOTLR74O	0671043994	95213134	Greek (Modern) - 2nd Ed. (Pimsleur Language Program)	Books	4	37	39	N	N	Pimsleur  is effective if you want only to SPEAK Greek...	Pimsleur's Greek program is my first attempt learning a new language using their method. I've used Berlitz, Living Language and Language/40 cassettes and CDs for other languages. However, having gone through some 15 hours of instruction with the Pimsleur cassettes has proven to me that Pimsleur really does work. <br />It works if you want to speak the language, although the vocabulary I have learned in the 15 hours is limited, but I have retained most of what I've listened to. The method can seem repetitive at times. <br />I gave the edition 4 not 5 stars, because the booklet included with the tapes gives you only a brief glance at written Greek: the alphabet is shown, along with a pronunciation key. The chapter lessons are written in Greek only, which is great if you have the motivation to decipher it as a beginning student. I know Pimsleur's emphasis is on learning through listening and repetition, but why include the lesson titles at all then?<br />The vocabulary only provides words like: wine/beer, husband/wife, when/where, time/week, Athens/Thessaloniki, drink/eat, buy/shops, etc. Really useful words they should've included would be airport, help, even the names of some typical Greek foods you'd order in a restaurant. Offering a Level 2 or 3 is definitely needed if one is going to continue learning Greek using this method.<br />From reading other reviews of other Greek-language study aids, I feel the need to invest in a Routledge's Comprehensive Grammar as I intend to fully learn the language and the culture.	2003-01-19
US	52123042	R1K9S2TK1Y6SEB	1565122518	320531227	Boulevard	Books	2	2	3	N	N	interesting start then the plot goes awry...	BOULEVARD started out promisingly enough with a young man named Newell coming from small-town Alabama to the \\"big-city\\" lights and action of 1970s New Orleans. We follow Newell's day-to-day adventures, such as they are at times, in settling into a life in the Big Easy. <br />There's a motley cast of characters, many of whom befriend Newell and help him find his way in his new gay, adult life. The few sex scenes found in the book can hardly be described as graphically explicit, so ignore those reviewers who make such claims. Those scenes are more descriptive of the places than the sex acts taking place.<br />At about the half-way point, the author introduces an irrelevant and mostly uninteresting side-story about the transvestite janitor who cleans the adult bookstore/theater where Newell works. Her story takes up too many pages and doesn't move the action along at all.<br />Overall I felt rather depressed for Newell after reading BOULEVARD. This is not so much a tragedy, but it is a rather sad gay young man's life from a different era.	2003-01-19
US	52123042	R3IAXUSXNCKTN5	0810905655	598942949	Yves Saint Laurent 5, avenue Marceau, 75116 Paris , France	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Not the definitive look at the universe of YSL	Though the producers and editors of this book have obviously taken great care and reverence in assembling the images seen in this hefty Rizzoli hardcover edition, it is nonetheless lacking.<br />There is an eight-page, albeit in very-large typeface, essay extolling the philosophy behind the decades of YSL's influence and visions of modern fashion, as well as journal entries in Yves Saint Laurent's own handwriting that are written mostly in French. There are several famous quotes from him: among them the most famous of all \\"there is nothing more beautiful than a naked body.\\"<br />The photographs number in the hundreds, though only a handful of family photographs from YSL's childhood in Oran, Algeria are captioned with names. Otherwise, the documentary's images shot mostly in the atelier at 5 avenue Marceau are without caption or description, though you can discern the sense of creativity and endless discussion that is the process of the haute couture. The masterpieces of tailleur (suits) and flou (dresses) are often one-of-a-kind. Their numbers are usually limited to one or two copies, so the 2000 or so women who can afford the prices are not likely to see someone else wearing that same opera coat or evening gown which ends up photographed in the society pages of Paris and New York among other places. If you are paying $50,000 for a hand-embroidered Lesage suit jacket, you don't want to see it on the shoulders of a half-dozen of your fellow couture followers. Ca marche pas!<br />Most interestingly the editors did not include many quotes from some of Saint Laurent's inner circle, except for a small contribution from his life and business partner, Pierre Berge. There is one short blurb from Catherine Deneuve, but no words from Loulou de la Falaise or Betty Catroux, or even Marie Munoz, directrice of the YSL atelier for years. There are some very old press clippings from the 50s and 60s when YSL was hitting the peaks of creativity, but very little from the pinnacle of his career, which would be most of the 1970s. In the 70s we witnessed some of the greatest moments in fashion history with the Chinese and Russian collections that set the trends for womens' wear for years after the clothes were shown in Paris.<br />The book is full of images, but short on text. For those who are unfamiliar with all the innovations introduced for women's clothing, their number is second only to that of those brought forth by Coco Chanel. Saint Laurent created the women's pantsuit, the \\"smoking\\" or women's tuxedo, the trenchcoat, the safari look, khaki, the list goes on and on. Seeing the documentary would be more than helpful, as it would fill in many of the gaps.<br />A beautiful book that leaves you only wanting much more...career, which would be most of the 1970s. In the 70s we witnessed some of the greatest moments in fashion history with the Chinese and Russian collections that set the trends for womens' wear for years after the clothes were shown in Paris.<br />The book is full of images, but short on text. For those who are unfamiliar with all the innovations introduced for women's clothing, their number is second only to that of those brought forth by Coco Chanel. Saint Laurent created the women's pantsuit, the \\"smoking\\" or women's tuxedo, the trenchcoat, the safari look, khaki, the list goes on and on. Seeing the documentary would be more than helpful, as it would fill in many of the gaps.<br />A beautiful book that leaves you only wanting much more...	2003-01-18
US	52123042	R2Z037GH2SGXUK	0743236645	173165535	Elizabeth Taylor: My Love Affair with Jewelry	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Exquisite jewels for an Exceptional Lady	Elizabeth Taylor's MY LOVE AFFAIR WITH JEWELRY is one of the most sumptuous and beautifully-made books on the subject of fine jewelry. This is not only a great gift idea for the Elizabeth Taylor fan or for jewelry lovers, it is also a wonderful book to be pored over time and time again.<br />The quality of the photos is top-notch, many are full-page and in gloriously rich color. The book itself is quite large, so many photos of the individual pieces are enlarged to show the superb craftmanship and detail from the world's premier jewelers: Harry Winston, Bulgari, Cartier, Van Cleef &amp; Arpels, Schlumberger (of Tiffany fame), and on and on.<br />The stories behind some of these world-famous gems are quite charming and have been told in countless biographies of Dame Elizabeth. My favorite has to be the story of the Cartier-Burton diamond, at the time of its purchase in 1968, the highest price paid at auction for a diamond. The flawless 69.42 carat pear-shaped diamond was even featured in the Guiness Book of Records for many years. The pictures featuring La Liz wearing it are breathtaking. There is another story that Liz and Richard Burton were visiting Lucille Ball on the set of The Lucy Show, as Liz was going to guest-star in an episode. Of course, the Cartier diamond was the talk of the world, so Lucy asked if she could try it on. Liz Taylor has always been more than glad to let friends try on her jewelry, so she obliged Lucy. Well, Lucy could not get it off and she literally panicked. They tried in vain to get the ring off and finally succeeded, with much giggling from everyone. It is the spirit with which Liz Taylor enjoys her jewelry that I find so endearing and fun.<br />Many of the pieces in her collection are of historical interest, like the Shah Jehan Diamond and the La Peregrina pearl. Liz even wore La Peregrina in a movie starring her husband Richard Burton. There are several movie stills showing her wearing it while in period costume. <br />This is a bookto be enjoyed for many years!	2002-11-22
US	52123042	R285ZI1AQZ9NM6	0060185554	220707206	Bare Blass	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Bill Blass:  timeless American style, wit and class	Bare Blass written by Bill Blass and completed by Cathy Horyn soon after his death earlier this year is a lovely memoir. Bill Blass is and always will be the epitome of the modern American Gentleman: handsome, witty, charming and above all else, a unique talent in the world of fashion.<br />Mr. Blass is quite frank speaking about his personal life up to a point. At the outset of the book, he is very upfront about his views on sexuality and relationships. While he doesn't declare himself a homosexual, he doesn't declare himself bisexual either. He leaves that designation ambiguous: in any case does it really matter in our times?<br />What does matter is the legacy he leaves us from a long and illustrious career in the fashion industry. His influence can be seen in many of today's young designers: Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors, and Nicole Miller to name a few. His love of color and pattern is probably inspired most by the work of Yves Saint Laurent for color/pattern, and Claire McCardell, the American doyenne of modern sportswear.<br />Blass has a good time telling a story and reading them is a real treat. He's not above criticism of himself and others, a refreshingly candid attitude in today's climate of political correctness and PR maneuvering.<br />If you enjoy reading memoirs or reading about fashion design, BARE BLASS is well worth your time. <br />You will be missed, Mr. Blass.	2002-11-22
US	52123042	R2SW5RP8BVB4IV	0312283709	994951933	Running with Scissors: A Memoir	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Delusions of grandeur (and being like David Sedaris.)	RUNNING WITH SCISSORS is not as disturbing as some of the reviews would lead you to believe. However, I say this from the perspective of a 30ish gay man who grew up in the deep South in the 70s and 80s where most of the \\"antics\\" depicted in the book would barely get a second look when I was coming out. The only exception to that comment I have to make is the \\"relationship\\" between Augusten Burroughs and Neil is really disturbing as it appears to be a case of pedophilia. <br />I found nothing humorous in a 14-year old being physically involved with a person more than twice their age. The psychiatrist in whose home Mr. Burroughs spent several of his formative teen years is largely to blame for this, as Mr. Burrough's mother had long ago taken leave of her senses and custody of her son. <br />While the book starts out in an interesting fashion, the last half completely collapses in on itself as Burroughs' descriptions of inane events like frosting his hair, and building a skylight in the kitchen seem to take center stage in his daily life. Not interesting, just boring after so many pages.<br />Having enjoyed the works of David Sedaris for many years through his books and NPR appearances, I have come to appreciate a modern gay man's look at life in America. While Sedaris is wry and perspicacious, it would be a long stretch to include Burrough's \\"memoir\\" in the same realm. Burroughs is a fair writer in need of judicious editing. He doesn't compare to Sedaris' unique voice on gay life.<br />After finishing this book, and being quite glad it ended after some 300 pages, I really felt saddened and depressed by the whole story.	2002-10-24
US	52123042	R1N5RGJ4N83S13	0807059188	955513201	The Tiger Ladies: A Memoir of Kashmir	Books	4	11	11	N	N	a Paradise Lost to war	In Sudha Koul's beautifully written memoir of her youth and young adulthood in Kashmir, she brings the reader a vivid sense of her wonderful years spent there, and the bittersweet memories she revisits upon her return to a war-torn nation. Not having known much about the regional conflict, this book helped me understand who the people of the Kashmiri valley are today, and who they were before conflict came to rule their daily lives.<br />Ms. Koul's many stories of her grandmother, Danna, are a touching tribute to her grandmother's memory. Danna had her own particular ways of running her household. Many of these traditions have been passed down from mother to daughter through several generations. It is this sense of continuity from which the author draws her resolve and ambition to be both a respectful Brahmin daughter, and a successful 20th-century woman with a career outside the marital home.<br />There are many great stories to be enjoyed in this gem of a memoir. It is one of the best of its kind, and one of my favorite books this year.<br />I look forward to enjoying her other works.	2002-10-01
US	52123042	R346P85B6SQP4U	0374168253	585136619	The Haunting of L.	Books	2	3	6	N	N	'haunted' by a disappointing climax	While I have enjoyed previous Howard Norman works, particularly The Museum Guard, I cannot say the same for THE HAUNTING OF L.<BR>Though the premise of the book is promising: an exploration of the turn-of-the century phenomenon known as \\"spirit photography\\" which evidently enjoyed a short-lived vogue, by the time I got to the end, I felt no sympathy nor antipathy towards any of the three principal characters. <br />These three people all seem to have their own selfish motivations and desires in mind when tromping on each others' emotions. While I didn't come away hating any one in particular, I didn't feel they deserved any compassion either. They lived to pursue their heart's desires no matter the outcome. Maybe that is justly the moral of this story: reap what you sow.<br />Some of the critics' reviews I have read cite THE HAUNTING OF L as the third in Norman's trilogy that is preceded by THE BIRD ARTIST and THE MUSEUM GUARD. Though it might have been the author's intention to do just that, THE HAUNTING OF L is sadly a badly played \\"note\\" in what is otherwise a beautifully-written trio of stories.<br />If you're new to his work, you'll likely find the book readable. However, if you're familiar with the author's style, you'll more likely find this work lacking in resonance.	2002-08-16
US	52123042	R28X8WBNNJR4XJ	0375506292	988871963	The Seal Wife: A Novel	Books	5	20	22	N	N	The Heart Of Darkness (and Light)....	Kathryn Harrison's THE SEAL WIFE is far and away her finest work, and one of the finest works of fiction published this year. Written in a very spare style, Harrison doesn't waste a word, a paragraph or a chapter in telling this story of a US government scientist sent to the wilds of Alaska in 1915. Bigelow's assignment is to map the weather patterns of the area, where railroads and infrastructure are to be built, extracting the riches of gold, furs and other precious commodities. Bigelow embarks upon an ambitious quest to construct the biggest kite known, which will aid him in understanding the changeable nature of the region's weather. The kite itself becomes a metaphor for a man's quest for unattainable love, his desire to conquer nature, and the consequences of reaching too far outside one's known experiences in life. <BR> <BR>Bigelow has three relationships through the course of the story: one with the kite, which consumes not only his intellect and emotions, but great periods of his time every day; a physical and strangely emotionally distant relationship with an Aleut woman whose name and background he never knows fully. Thirdly, he has another physical and highly emotional liaison with a young woman who communicates only through song. <BR> <BR>Harrison's descriptions of the Alaskan frontier with all its vastness, great white blankets of snow and ice, and the long stretches of light and darkness bring the reader into Bigelow's setting like no other novel I can remember. <BR> <BR>THE SEAL WIFE is the finest example of the novelist's craft! I would really, really like to see her write into a screenplay. This is a story of great drama veiled by the whiteness of Alaska, and the loneliness of a man's soul. Beautifully done, Kathryn Harrison!!	2002-07-07
US	52123042	R2ZOPUE8ZWO4S5	0609610252	558871711	Adam and Eve and Pinch Me	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Rendell delivers the goods....in spades!!	ADAM AND EVEN AND PINCH ME by Ruth Rendell will likely be one of her very best books, and one of 2002's best books in ANY genre.<br />I have read all but a handful of her works over the past 10 years, and she continues to amaze me at the breadth of her talent.<br />Once again we have a cast of characters that could be, if you lived in jolly old London, your next door neighbors or your co-workers. Rendell's greatest gift in writing is drawing out not only the foibles, but also the deepest thoughts of these people as they go through their very mundane lives.<br />What makes the story so intricate and involving, is that the 3 main women characters, Zillah, Fiona and Minty (Araminta), are all from very different backgrounds, but are all looking for the same thing: a steady and romantic relationship with a man. The paths they tread and the consequences of their interactions with this one man brings forth completely different outcomes. There are too many twists and turns to describe here, and it would ruin the pleasure of wending your way through Rendell's web of deceit, unrequited love, and murder.<br />Suffice to say I was up into the wee hours with ADAM AND EVE AND PINCH ME. Superb: you'll be recommending this to everyone you know, believe me!<br />Is there a BBC adaptation in the works, perhaps? Let's hope so.	2002-03-05
US	52123042	R2OYV5J1850I41	0060007834	654075233	Unnatural Fire: A Countess Ashby de la Zouche Mystery (Countess Ashby de La Zouche Mysteries)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Very Entertaining--especially for a first novel	Fidelis Morgan's UNNATURAL FIRE is an unnaturally enjoyable historical mystery. She blends mystery, comedy, intrigue and a healthy measure of period details of Restoration-era London to whirl the reader back in time. I do sincerely hope she plans to write a long-lived series featuring Countess Ashby de la Zouche and her fiery partner-in-criminal investigation, maid and confidant, Alpiew. <br />They do make a winning pair! <br />Hats (or should I say, wigs?) off to Miss Morgan for a finely written and very, very enjoyable &quot;romp&quot; through the back alleys and other unseemly places of ye olde London!!	2002-02-15
US	52123042	R3D9L6329B1OTR	0312269862	591507890	Maria Callas: An Intimate Biography	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another fine effort from Anne Edwards	Not having read any biographies on Maria Callas before, I can't judge against other authors' works on the subjects. ...I really enjoyed this version of Callas' work and art. I will second the ... opinion ... of Anne Edwards omitting dates/years when recounting major events--it did make it difficult to place these events in their proper context/chronology. <br />However, overall I found the book's emphasis on Callas personal life as well as her artistic life to make for a very well-balanced view. I would recommend it to anyone interested not only in opera, but in the life of a great legend! One other shortcoming would be Edwards' lack of attention to the details of Callas' performances--this is not a technical look at her voice, but a general overview of her unique gifts of displaying real emotion through her voice and gestures, both on the stage and in the recording studio.<br />Viva La Divina...	2002-01-20
US	52123042	R3S2XD26NLNBA1	1559724714	624276087	The Duchess Of Windsor: The Uncommon Life of Wallis Simpson	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Uncommon life, uncommon love	Greg King's thoroughly-researched and highly readable biography of the Duchess of Windsor's life is simply excellent! At the outset the author explains that his book is a &quot;sympathetic&quot; portrait of the Duchess, and is not a re-hashing of old gossip and rumors. <br />Rather, this is a very balanced and highly interesting look at not only the lives of the Duke and Duchess, but of the time and world they inhabited with such joie de vivre, glamour and above all, humor and compassion for others. So many books have emphasized the lavish lifestyle, the Duchess' wardrobe and jewels, her society friends, etc. Here, we are privy to the other side of their lives: one in which Wallis and Edward devoted enormous amounts of their personal time and money to helping those persons less fortunate than themselves. Of particular interest is their years spent in the Bahamas, when the Duke was Governor-General, and Wallis spent years coordinating efforts to improve the lives of native Bahamians. It is sad that Buckingham Palace ignored not only their charitable efforts, which the British Royal Family is so eager to promote in the UK with their &quot;Civil Duties&quot;, but that Edward's brother, King George VI, and Queen Elizabeth (now the Queen Mother) ensured that Edward and Wallis were not allowed to represent the Royal Family within the UK itself. King George lived in great fear that their popularity with the common people of Britain (and all over the world) would usurp his authority as monarch supreme. <br />All in all this is a story to be remembered for all time.	2001-12-15
US	52123042	R2XQCYCTBYZQTV	0786868619	719432164	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Would have rated this book 5 stars but.....	I would have given 5 stars for Malika Oufkir's story, if it weren't for the fact she shortchanges the ending of the book. Many writers of fiction and non-fiction alike seem to rush the last parts of their work, only to leave you with the feeling they had much more to say. That is exactly the feeling I was left with, even though the story of the Oufkir's survival under the most horrendous conditions is quite compelling.<br />The fault might lie with the publisher's desire to keep the book at a certain length, and also the failure of the editor to excise some of the overly-long descriptions of particular events.<br />The translator's style however, does not take away from the importance of telling this family's story. The most interesting parts are Ms. Oufkir's remembrances of her life before the terrible turn of events took place that changed hers and her family's life forever.<br />I strongly feel that Ms. Oufkir could write another book that delved more deeply into her life inside the palace walls. Perhaps the publisher will take note....	2001-11-18
US	52123042	RJQ1JMTEGEYH	158234146X	51612915	Sarah: A Novel	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Hail all ye saints and sinners!	SARAH by JT Leroy is one of the most original and funny stories I've read in a long time.<br />If you've read any of the promotional blurbs, I took special   notice of one that refers to SARAH as a cross between Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland and William Burrough's Naked Lunch. I'll take that tangent a step further and say I saw elements of Hansel and Gretel, the 3 Little Pigs, Humpty Dumpty, Rapunzel and Rumpelstilskin, to name a few childhood fairy tales. This story of a &quot;lot lizard&quot; who takes his mother's name on a moment's notice, and joins the world of truck-stop whores, hustlers and even a 5-star chef in a diner named the Three Doves, had me laughing out loud, sighing and absolutely drawn into the &quot;religious&quot; symbolism that jumps off some many pages.<br />Not only do these women and &quot;women&quot; service their truckers rain, snow or shine, they also can raise the roof with a medley of old Gospel songs that'll bring tears and laughter at the same time.  I CANNOT wait to see that scene brought to life in movie form by Gus van Sant, who evidently is working on the film right now. My first thought was John Waters to direct, but Gus van Sant has the modern homosexual/hustler/alt culture down to a T. If you've seen My Private Idaho, you know to what I'm referring. This &quot;novel&quot; is a mix of drama/comedy, sin/redemption, joy/heartbreak, etc. etc. <br />I cannot recommend this highly enough as a truly original voice in modern literature. I have to go now and read THE HEART IS DECEITFUL ABOVE ALL THINGS, Leroy's collection of short stories just published recently. Have a gay ol' time enjoying &quot;Saint&quot; Sarah's life story with her friends Pooh, Stella and the gang....	2001-07-19
US	52123042	R2BF2JWJBZG4TY	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Funny but not my favorite Sedaris collection.....	ME TALK PRETTY ONE DAY is another collection featuring David Sedaris' especially mordant and hilarious sense of humor. He muses on the most ordinary events, but gives us a unique perspective. <br />My two favorite stories concern his childhood guitar lessons and his sojourn with his French boyfriend renovating a house in the French countryside. <br />While reading David Sedaris is entertaining in itself, nothing compares to HEARING him tell his stories on audiotape or CD. His humor comes through so much more vividly through his voice and not the printed word. Do yourself a favor and pick up an audio copy even if you've read the book. The experience is greatly enhanced. I know because I first encountered his work from listening to the audio version of NAKED, which is to this day my absolute Sedaris favorite!	2001-06-08
US	52123042	RUAFCZ1L56ZT7	0679450009	772619720	The Binding Chair or, A Visit from the Foot Emancipation Society	Books	3	5	7	N	N	interesting story but muddled ending.....	I had read POISON and THE KISS by Kathryn Harrison, and really enjoyed POISON in particular. I was intrigued by the story she was writing of in THE BINDING CHAIR, and picked it up anticipating a mix of social criticism and historical drama. <br />The book started out promisingly enough. However, the last few chapters when Mai is old and reminiscing about her early days, left me wondering where the author was leading the reader. The ending was strange, and it didn't seem to fit the book's intention. The author seemed to dash off a tragic ending, without giving it any development or real resolution.<br />An OK read with a disappointing end....	2001-05-01
US	52123042	RVLHAAT57AJFQ	1879198266	713918203	The Other Side of Ethel Mertz: The Life Story of Vivian Vance	Books	5	4	4	N	N	a salute to the &quot;Queen of second bananas...&quot;	THE OTHER SIDE OF ETHEL MERTZ is a highly readable and very informative biography on the life and work of Vivian Vance. I have been watching I Love Lucy for years, and the magic of Ethel Mertz's sarcasm, wit and outspoken spirit are no doubt the mirror of Vivian Vance's real-life personality. She fought for her place on the Lucy Show, despite Lucille Ball's animosity towards her, and several attempts at having Vance fired. Of course, money was often at the center of the disputes. Vance fairly enough wanted her fair share of the loot as a leading actress on a hit TV show of its time.<br />The first-time authors, Mr. Castellucio and Mr. Walker, have done excellent work culling all their research into a very absorbing Hollywood tv-land bio. There's plenty of anecdotes to laugh and cry over. <br />Vivian Vance was a master at playing &quot;second banana&quot; to Lucille Ball. She got her start in Vaudeville and radio, before making it to the TV Big Time with I Love Lucy, then later rejoining Ball on the Lucy Show. Vance was a very gifted comedienne, and she took her work very seriously. There are many stories of her conflicts with not only Ball, but especially with her tv husband, Fred, played by William Frawley. I won't give away any details, but the stories are a real insider's look at the all-time classic of sitcoms. I Love Lucy is where it all started and where it ends. No one has even come close to matching the sense of not only comedy, but camaraderie and friendship that has been and will continue to be a nightly fixture on TVs in living rooms around the world.<br />Hopefully, we'll see a comprehensive DVD collection of all the episodes with documentary features sometime soon.<br />Highly recommended not only for LUCY fans, but for fans of the golden age of show biz!!	2001-04-27
US	52123042	R3LZ5MJ38A6P75	0425179052	148468168	Death from the Woods	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a sleuth with good instincts and a wry sense of humor	The protagonist of DEATH FROM THE WOODS, Elise Andrioli, is a blind and mute quadriplegic. One afternoon while her caretaker is grocery shopping, a young girl approaches Elise and tells her she witnessed a person named Death From the Woods kill her little brother. Elise is shocked and horrified. The little girl walks away and Elise is on the hunt for the killer and his/her identity.<br />Because she cannot see, speak or move, she is &quot;imprisoned&quot; in her body. She can hear what others are saying and she listens for clues from her neighbors as to the whereabouts of the killer and his possible next moves. <br />Elise's humorous observations of her caretaker and her visitors are often quite sarcastic but accurate. They go through their daily routines as if Elise has no cognizance of the world and the events surrounding her.<br />Without giving too much of the plot away, suffice to say that Elise has more than her share of &quot;bad luck&quot; in her search for the child killer loose in her neighborhood.<br />The author has taken great care in creating a realistic and gripping story. I certainly hope more translations of Aubert's other books are planned for the future.<br />Highly recommended!	2001-04-13
US	52123042	R3IT7UD1YWHIWL	1569471592	94286646	Murder in the Marais (Aimee Leduc Investigations, No. 1)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	a compelling mix of wartime intrigue and high-tech sleuthing	MURDER IN THE MARAIS is Cara Black's debut novel featuring young Parisian sleuth Aimee Leduc. Set against a backdrop of WWII Nazi crimes, international politics/diplomacy, and slick, high-tech detective work, you have a highly-entertaining thriller.<br />The &quot;smoking gun&quot; is an old photograph Aimee discovers in her investigation, which leads her to uncover a power conspiracy going back to Nazi Germany. The twists and turns of the plot will keep you up very late....<br />The characters are well-written and include both major and minor players to the story. If you've been to Paris, her descriptions of the city, its streets and people will bring back vivid memories. Paris is not only the City of Light here, but a city harboring dark secrets and hidden history. <br />C'est super! Encore, Cara Black! Looking forward to MURDER IN BELLEVILLE.	2001-04-12
US	52123042	R1WN1IVYE7VPK5	0446674842	593108560	The Arcanum: The Extraordinary True Story	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a great tale of greed	Janet Gleeson's THE ARCANUM is a fascinating history of the \\"discovery\\" of porcelain by the Europeans. During the reign of Augustus the Strong, European royalty strived for political and financial superiority over one another. Their quest for riches led to the \\"science\\" of alchemy: turning lead into gold. He who had the power would rule absolutely, or so they thought.<br />Joseph Bottger was brought to the imperial court at Augustus' behest to unlock the secrets of alchemy. During his endless experiments, he stumbled upon a process for creating porcelain which in turn gave rise to the Meissen factory of world renown today. Bottger at one point attempted escape, and was captured and returned to the castle's laboratory. He was spared his life only because he was able to convince Augustus of the potential wealth the manufacture of porcelain could bring. So began Bottger's lifelong work of refining the porcelain's quality with particular regard to the purity of its color and opacity.<br />He spent decades in the bowels of the palace, for weeks at a time under inhumane working conditions. The firing rooms and the ovens they contained produced not only unbearably high temperatures, but noxious and often fatal fumes that would be likened to today's black lung disease suffered by coal miners. <br />Ms. Gleeson's tale is not only one of great wealth, but of the dire consequences that befell the not only Augustus, but all of Europe. Wars were fought not only for religion, but also for the desire to control the porcelain markets.<br />Educational and quite suspenseful. Excellent history lesson, Ms. Gleeson!	2001-04-12
US	52123042	R2XCJHM7SXQKVF	0156000024	458496418	Consider This, Senora	Books	5	16	18	N	N	a gorgeous reading experience	I first read CONSIDER THIS, SENORA many years ago. I have since re-read it several times, and have given it as a gift many times to fellow book lovers. This story is so beatifully written in its vivid characters and the colorful landscape of rural Mexico.     Ms. Doerr has assembled a small cast of players, with very different backgrounds and motivations, and dropped them on a mesa to live out their hopes and perhaps their dreams.    As she lived in Mexico for many years with her husband, who was a diplomat, Ms. Doerr paints the novel with very detailed descriptions of the smallest things like the colors of flowers. You almost can smell and see the blooms in your mind's eye.    One of the most poignant scenes is that of someone playing a piano and it sounds echoing softly across the mesa in the midst of a rainstorm. The imagery is dreamlike and quite peaceful.     Ms. Doerr didn't start writing in earnest until she had returned to college to earn her history degree when she was in her 70s. She has since written a collection of short stories, TIGER IN THE GRASS. She has a talent that has indeed been overlooked by millions of readers everywhere. Hopefully with time she will be recognized for her immense gift of storytelling!    Superb reading.	2001-04-10
US	52123042	RBVNS8SYBUE7V	0312228139	201133573	Chasing the Mountain of Light: Across India on the Trail of the Koh-i-Noor Diamond	Books	4	3	3	N	N	much more than the history of diamonds is told....	Kevin Rushby's trek across India in search of the legendary diamond, the \\"Koh-I-Noor\\" (mountain of light)is much more than a history of this fabled and \\"cursed\\" stone from the Golconda mine. Rushby's journey takes the reader through many small villages, many of them long abandoned after British rule.<br />Rushby's days in Gujarat state are the most interesting. There, he meets an old gentleman who lives in a large but very lonely estate home. They speak of the old days when the gentleman's estate was full of people, servants and animals. Now, his days are spent on the rooftop terrace taking tea in the afternoon and reminiscing about his past. A sense of melancholy and lost time is felt throughout all the varied characters' lives Rushby comes to know so well.<br />The story of the diamond trade and the wars fought over their inherent riches is only a small part of the book. The stories of the Indian people Rushby meets make this a great read for those of us who have not yet seen India. Time for me to book passage!	2001-04-09
US	52123042	R3CARQP0U27Z59	0515121282	810203478	Cold Shoulder	Books	3	7	7	N	N	cold, hard realism!	I was familiar with Lynda LaPlante from the PBS series, Prime Suspect featuring Helen Mirren as Jane Tennyson. Ms. LaPlante does not disappoint readers with her first American character, Lorraine Page, who supposedly is based on the real-life story of a female LAPD officer. I don't know if that's true, or just publicity to help sell the book, but in any case, COLD SHOULDER is quite realistic.<br />Lorraine Page is an alcoholic and finds herself leaving on the streets of LA after her husband takes their children away from her. She goes into survival mode as she's fighting her way up from the depths of alcohol and drug addiction. She turns to prostituting herself, when one afternoon she has a quite unexpected run-in with a serial killer she is servicing. Not to give anymore away, but suffice to say her police training and instincts take over and the hunt is on!<br />The plot is full of twists and turns, the characters are well-written and the ending is gripping. The book is open-ended, so you know a sequel will follow. Overall, the realism is what makes the story work so well. Do yourself a favor and read a really strong female character's story. It's a nice change to see a woman detective who's as strong as any man in a mystery novel!!	2001-04-03
US	52123042	R1H5EAQ0NNDJZ5	0312266324	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	5	5	5	N	N	you'll feel the chill of the Scottish moors upon you....	A PLACE OF EXECUTION is the first of Val McDermid's books I've read. I saw a feature on CBS Sunday morning and picked up the book immmediately. Everything you've read about her books is true---she is an excellent storyteller.<br />From the first pages, she sets the mood very effectively. Ms. McDermid grew up in a small Scottish mining town, much the same setting as the novel. The imagery of the Scottish countryside will literally bring chills up and down your spine!<br />The characters are well-drawn, the plot hooks you from the start, and the conclusion is quite a surprise. She well deserves all the awards she has received for writing this extraordinarily disturbing murder story. Read it then pass it along to a friend who can appreciate fine writing and a plot to match it.<br />I really would give it 6 stars out of 5!	2001-03-30
US	52123042	R3JPJJV8WPJL9N	0312969228	128650106	The Concubine's Tattoo (Sano Ichiro Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a vivid mystery in the era of the Samurai	I picked up the Concubine's Tattoo on a cross-country plane flight. I read it from cover to cover in one afternoon! Laura Joh Rowland's descriptive writing really brings the history of feudal Japan to life. You have a real sense of not only the character's physical features, but of their motivations and feelings. Her descriptions of the inner workings of the Shogun's palace are so exacting, you feel you are really there as one of its inhabitants. Murder, jealousy, political intrigue, honor and love all intertwine to draw you deep into the maelstrom of the Shogunate. YOU WON'T BE DISAPPOINTED!!!	2001-03-28
US	52123042	R21FELLW4LORPQ	0575401915	30631435	Glimpses of Paradise	Books	4	2	2	N	N	an engrossing look at Tavener's life and work	Geoffrey Haydon's biography of John Tavener is certainly without equal. It is by far the most thoroughly-researched study of Tavener's life and music. Not only does Haydon write of Tavener's music, he shows us the importance of Tavener's family and how their support of his musical genius has helped him become one of the 20th century's greatest musical figures. Also, the patronage of Lady Birley, a woman of wealth and culture, contributed so much to Tavener's ability to live through his art and bring it to so many people. My only small complaint would be that the record companies have not recorded more of his music as is listed in the exhaustive appendix detailing the dozens of choral and orchestral pieces composed since the 1960s. Hopefully, with time we will see a comprehensive collection released on CD.<br />Because this book was published about 1994-5, discussion of Tavener's recent projects in the past 5 years is absent. Notably, his work with the Academy of Ancient Music, with whom he recorded a selection of choral music, which includes FUNERAL CANTICLE, SAPPHO:LYRIC FRAGMENTS and ETERNITY'S SUNRISE. This CD and TEARS OF THE ANGELS on Linn Records are two great surprises awaiting the listener new to his music.<br /> If you want to read an inspiring story of a man and his art, do not hesitate to pick up a copy of this book. You won't be disappointed!	2001-02-19
US	52123042	RUONPXP5EQK6I	0609607898	424501834	Grasshopper	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Not up to her usual high standards	I have read all but 6 or 8 of both the Rendell and Vine books. I have to say that this ranks as one of her weakest in terms of plot, drama and resolution. Rendell is known for her expertly drawn characters, sense of timing/plot, and a grab-you-by-the throat ending. Grasshopper does not deliver any of these elements. I made myself finish this book, hoping something interesting would happen to any one of the characters. The story just plodded along page after page. The book jacket's description of the story made it sound more interesting than it really was. Other ... reviews have mentioned this book's similiarities to KING SOLOMON'S CARPET, one of her books I haven't read yet. But I will be now, as it sounds like one of her usual superbly written and plotted books. IF you haven't read Rendell before, start with something recent like A SIGHT FOR SORE EYES or something older like KISSING THE GUNNER'S DAUGHTER. My all-time favorite is far and away NO NIGHT IS TOO LONG. That story will set your nerves on edge for days!	2001-02-19
US	52123042	R6RXBYCVZ09TJ	0810931419	962414175	Geoffrey Beene: The Anatomy of His Work	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great photos, but not much biography on Mr. Beene...	As this is one of the few books available on the artistry of Geoffrey Beene, it is both a welcome addition to the world of fashion-photography books and sadly, a very weak treatment of the how-and-why of his work. The photos are oversized and some are gate-folded, but there are not nearly enough to cover the breadth of more than 30 year's design that is Beene's history. He is and always will be apart from many American designers. His is a mixture of the ease/casual feel of sportswear, and at the same time, the epitome of the couturier/dressmaker's craft. Aerodynamic, sleek, modern, iconoclastic are just some of the words used to describe his vision. However, the publisher neglected to go into greater detail as to why Beene is described as such. It would have been helpful to read of his early days working in Paris couture workrooms picking up pins and assisting with the production of toiles. Such is one of the many stories that surround the Beene legend. The quotations from Beene himself are somewhat informative, but someone should write a definitive biography of his life and work in greater detail. A nice book to look at, but not much more.	2001-02-19
US	52123042	RFR8MVJ09CWFX	0571200885	232849922	The Music of Silence: A Composer's Testament	Books	4	4	4	N	N	straightforward insights into  the composer's intent	I found this collection of interviews with the composer John Tavener and the editor, Brian Keeble, to be quite interesting and often amusing. Mr. Taverner is not shy in expressing his great distaste for other &quot;modern&quot; composers who came before him(particularly Olivier Messaien.) The book is helpful for the perspective it gives the reader in understanding the process of composing music. Moreover, it shows us that for Tavener, music is not just for listening, it is a way of serving God. His devotion to the Orthodox Church has served to bring its centuries-old musical/vocal tradition to a broader audience, including those of us who are not familiar with the tenets of that Church. His music is not just for Christians or Orthodox believers; it is a music for people of all beliefs. The solemnity and emotion of the human spirit come through in every one of his works.	2001-02-18
US	52123042	R20VO59BFUOZ3M	1883642531	705627540	Give Me My Father's Body: The Life of Minik, the New York Eskimo	Books	5	13	13	N	N	a truly heartbeaking story of loss and identity	Minik's story is one you will never forget. Kenn Harper has lived among the Inuit people for some 30 years, and his treatment of Minik's life story is both enthralling and starkly simple. There are many kind and cruel people who become involved in Minik's life, but only a few really cared about him as a person. Many were only interested in his people as &quot;cultural artifacts&quot; and as literal side-show attractions to make money.<br />The book explores both sides of Minik's world: his homeland in Greenland, and that of his new life in America. The author effectively shows the dire consequences when these two worlds will not mesh together, and Minik is left as a man with no country, in the most literal sense of the word. <br />Once you start reading his story, you won't want to put it down. Read it then recommend it to everyone you know!	2001-02-15
US	52123042	RCBBF4BM23XYX	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	5	1	2	N	N	a modest and earnest look at a spiritual life	I picked up this book after having read several reviews. I can say I was pleasantly surprised at how Mr. Salzman conveyed the everyday existence of a nun. I do not have any personal knowledge of the lives of nuns or monks, but I feel strongly that the author has captured the essence of such a life. Sister John's story has much to tell all of us about the importance of accepting life's experiences and learning from them. Her humility and grace shine forth most in the last pages of the book, where we share a moment of levity and brightness with Sister Joan and a newly arrived novice at the convent. All in all I recommend LYING AWAKE without reservation!	2001-02-09
