US	52129420	R1NAFBT5W3OGXK	015602943X	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	5	1	4	N	N	great escape	This is a love story. No. this is science fiction. No. This is a brilliant novel about time travel.  I am writing this review 9 months after I finished reading this book, because I loved this book.<br /><br />Time travel is presented as a diagnosed disorder, CDP (Chrono-Displacement Order), which allows Henry (our hero) to travel to both the past and the future.  It appears that Herny's time travel cannot be controlled.  He disappears leaving behind his clothes; when he appears somewhere else in time and place he is naked.  Under such circumstances Henry's need to survive has forced him to become an expert at picking locks, dodging police, breaking and entering.  He is also a fast runner!  The author's attention to these details allows the reader to believe and escape.<br /><br />There is a creepy element to the story in the visits that the adult Henry has with his future wife, Clare.  They start when she is a child/adolescent. I felt he was taking advantage of her.  There is poignancy in the visit adult Henry has with himself and a frightened and confused child Henry.  He is there for himself when as a child he first time travels. There are anxious moments such as the time when Henry travels naked into a blizzard.  And finally there is the child Henry and Clare conceive.  Is CDP hereditary?  Will she time travel?<br /><br />Time travel novels require a leap of imagination.  You have to suspend reality and critical thinking.  If you can do that then I highly recommend this book.	2005-04-16
US	52129420	R378PKLE5A9IFA	0590457101	443187865	Ghosts! Ghostly Tales from Folklore	Books	5	0	0	N	N	7 stories ghost for the 1st grade reader	This is a delightful reader. There are seven stories/poems.  My daughter's favorite was the Little Green Bottle.  This is the story of the Kate, the school bully, and Joe, one of her victims.  One day Kate went too far, she bullied Joe into giving her his bycicle.  This time Joe told the teacher, and Kate got into trouble.  True to bully form, she threatened Joe with the infamous \\"I'll get you.\\"  But Kate, died before she could fully carry out this threat.  She returns as a ghost and she is determined to \\"get\\" Joe.  This is a story of empowerment.  Joe tricks Kate the ghost, and as you would expect from a first grade reader he wins in the end. <br /> <br />My first grader loved this book.  It's an age appropriate  Halloween read. <br /> <br />	2004-09-06
US	52129420	R3ALPLUDB0ZDL1	0807083054	640447547	Kindred (Black Women Writers Series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	African American woman is sci fi heroine	This is a crowd pleaser.  Listed as sci-fi or fantasy, gives a false impression.  Through the eyes of Dana, a black 20th century time traveler, we visit the ante bellum south.  <br />Through her visits we meet her ancestor, a white slave owner.  She first encounters him as a boy floating face down in a pond.  She saves him from drowning, and is returned to the 20th century when the boy's father (another ancestor) points a gun at her.  It appears that her fear returns her to her home.  Her husband was with her and witnessed her disappearance.  She returned just minutes later soaking wet.<br />As the book progresses, Dana returns again and again to the southern plantation each time to save her ancestor from some life threatening peril.   Each time she stays longer.  Each time she returns when she fears for her life. <br />The author uses the time travel device effectively to connect the 20th century attitudes of her readers with her speculations on slavery.  We view the compromises made by all to accommodate slavery... the participation of all, slave owner, slave, and free blacks.  The terror instilled in slaves by separating families and selling children.  At one point we are told about a tactic used by Dana's ancestor.  He sold all but one of children of a particular slave.  This child is mute.  At first Dana thinks that the child could not be sold.  But, she later considers this a tactic of terror.  This last child is all that this slave has left.   How better to keep the slaves in line then to make them fear for their children.   It is through devices such as this that she starts to understand how easy it is to give into that fear, how easy it is to enslave a human being.  <br />Ultimately, Dana commits the act of a 20th century African American woman.  It destroys her ancestor, and tears apart the slave families that she had grown to care about.<br />This book appeals to me on so many levels.  Octavia Butler is a wonderful story teller, but she is telling a storywith a moral.  She appeals to the emotions.  I cared for Dana, her husband, and the plantation slaves that she encountered.  She appeals to reason.  I accepted her view of how slaves would respond to various circumstances, and  I accepted her actions as reasonable under the circumstances.   She appeals to me as a woman.  Her heroine is one (not commonly found in sci-fi).   And finally, she appeals to me as a historian.  I accepted her facts on the life of slaves, and the relationship between slave and master.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2004-03-07
US	52129420	R59IMUSE0V1GD	0395345308	436553278	The Song of the Lark	Books	5	100	102	N	N	Brilliant American book	This is the first novel that I have read by Willa Cather, and so I began my reading with no specific expectations.   What I found was an extraordinary American writer.  Her descriptions, and her ability to sum up the lifetime of a character in just a few sentences or lines are unlike the writings of anyone else I have read.  She reminds me most of Henry James, although she is easier to read..  <br />Thea, the subject of this early Willa Cather novel is flawed, and not really a heroine at all.  She is an artist; her art is music.  Her family and neighbors in Moonstone Colorado barely recognize what this means; most just find her odd.  Thea is a loner.  She has no friends her own age.   Her siblings do not like her.  But, she is the subject of attention from the town doctor, a railroad worker, a drunkard piano teacher, and Mexican laborers.  All recognize something special in her; all contribute to her early struggle to find her art, and herself.<br />It is a railroad accident that changes her life.  When her friend, Ray Kennedy, dies in a railroad accident, he leaves Thea a $600 inheritance.  These funds take her to Chicago to study piano.   There she struggles in poverty, and is discouraged, but she also gets her first glimpse of who she is as an artist.  <br />This is a timeless story about struggle.  What does it take to be an artist?  What does the artistic commitment mean?  Thea does not visit her mother before her death because she had a special opportunity to sing a Wagnerian part in Germany.  Her response seems selfish, and uncaring.  Her sweetheart turns out to be unavailable, he is unhappily married. Thea has little personal life; people are somewhat incidental to her. Her life models that of a true artist.  The normal relations that most people need to thrive, are peripheral to her life as an artist.  It is that devotion to the art of singing that fills her life.<br />At the time of this writing, Song of the Lark is number 40,604 on Amazon.com's best selling list. As a brilliant American writer,  Cather seems to have been somewhat but not completely overlooked.  Perhaps this is because she was  a contemporary of Hemingway, and Fitzgerald, both of whom were such public figures.  Many of their works were transferred to the silver screen.  Perhaps it is due to her gender.  Regardless of the reason for this, she is an author worth discovering, and worth reading.  I highly recommend the Song of the Lark.	2003-12-27
US	52129420	R2Z7O7XIZKG6M3	0060199741	413475355	On a Grander Scale: The Outstanding Life of Sir Christopher Wren	Books	5	7	10	N	N	�reader if you require a monument, look around you�	\\"reader if you require a monument, look around you\\"  (inscription of the plaque at Wren's tomb) <br />Sir Christopher Wren was born to a life of privilege that evaporated when Charles I was deposed.    His father was Order of the Garter.  Suddenly his family was in danger of losing life as well as property.  These were Wren's student years.  During this period Wren became pragmatic, and he survived. <br />It was the Restoration of Charles II to the throne of England that restored the fortunes of the Wren family.  Too late for the father, but at precisely the right moment for the son.  Charles II restored the monarchy, and restored the fortunes of Wren.  The Restoration was an extraordinary period.  <br />Wren was a Renaissance man, best known for his architecture, in particular St. Paul's Cathedral. But Wren also \\"mapped moons and the trajectories of comets\\"  He \\"pursued astronomy and medicine during two civil wars.\\" <br />This is a scholarly biography, and not light beach reading.  Lisa Jardine's 85 pages of notes and an eighteen page bibliography may give some insight into how seriously she has taken her subject. On a Grander Scale is a detailed report on a fascinating time in England's history and one of the men that made it so.  It is well done, accurate, and intellectually stimulating.	2003-11-29
US	52129420	R32B2OTHTLAGHJ	0618127410	202185855	The Monk in the Garden: The Lost and Found Genius of Gregor Mendel, the Father of Genetics	Books	5	11	14	N	Y	Well worth reading	This is a such wonderful a biography of Gregor Mendel, that I was startled to see so many 2 star ratings.  It is easy to read and understand even if you lack a significant scientific education.<br />Rather than citing just the bare facts, Robin Marantz Henig writes like a novelist.  She interweaves the scientific debates before, during, and after Mendel's time with the importance of his discovery.  Mendel had no model to follow, no fellow researchers to encourage him, no context into which to put his research, and no vocabulary to describe the genetics he was documenting. His paper on the subject was largely ignored... and then rediscovered 35 years later.<br />Perhaps Mendel got a lucky break in choosing Moravian peas because  their characteristics were readily identifiable.  Or perhaps it is those characteristics, seed color, seed texture, plant height, that caused him find his work.<br />In modern times it can be seen as rather ironic that the initial work in genetics, the work that was needed to support Darwin, was developed by a monk in a  monastery.  But monks were the conservers of all the great ancient works.  Their monasteries contained the libraries of Europe throughout the middle ages.  The monks were the literate class.  St. Augustine stated that you talk to God when you pray, but God talks to you when you read.  And Mendel's monastery followed Augustinian doctrine.<br />That quiet isolation and contemplation may also have been essential to conducting the work.  Growing and recording peas does not seem stimulating.  Henig writes \\"By the time Mendel was done with this succession of crosses, recrosses, and backcrosses, he must have counted a total of more than 10,000 plants, 40,000 blossoms, and a staggering 300,000 peas.\\"<br />Mandel had fragile psyche, which was both the cause and effect of his failures.  He could not pass a qualifying exam that would allow him to teach high school.  His test anxiety was so great that on his second attempt, he started just one question and gave up.  He would take to his bed for months at a time. He and his work were ignored while others attained fame and the respect of the scientific community.  And yet, despite disappointments and lack or recognition, Mendel persevered.<br />This is a biography well worth reading.	2003-11-28
US	52129420	RISVRSHGGVB7O	0812968344	30689578	A Garden of Earthly Delights (20th Century Rediscoveries Series)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Great writing and great storytelling	Joyce Carol Oates revised and rewrote The Garden of Earthly Delights; this new version was just published in 2003 under the Modern Library 20th century rediscovered. (This was the author's second novel originally published in 1966.)  <br />The novel follows the life of Clara Walpole, born in a ditch to migrant workers during the Great Depression. She grows up moving from camp to camp, picking when children are allowed to pick, and going to school when required. There are four important men in her life, and no important women.  <br />There's her father. He loves Clara, but not her brothers, and not her mother. Her mother is worn out and dies leaving Clara to take care of her brothers.  Her father brings Nancy into the household. He needs to have a woman. Clara learns about incest when her friend Rosalie's father is taken by the KKK. Terror reigns in the camp. The men think that they can do nothing, perhaps because they think it is a just punishment for getting his daughter pregnant, or perhaps because they fear the Klan.  <br />Shortly after that incident, Clara goes into town and meets Lowry, who takes her away with him. Joyce Carol Oates does the unexpected. She makes Lowry a decent sort of chap. Lowry sets Clara up in his home town. He gets her a job, and a place to stay.  Lowry tells Clara that she needs to lie; she must tell everyone that she is sixteen years old. Otherwise, she will end up in an orphanage.  Of course Clara is in love.<br />Then there is Revere, both wealthy and married. And finally there is Clara's son, Swan.<br />Interwoven with these men are four Claras. There is Clara the child, Clara the teenager, Clara the woman, and finally, Clara as worn out as her mother was when she died.<br />I love reading Joyce Carol Oates. Although she is unique, sometimes she reminds me of Steinbeck, and sometime she reminds me of Stephen King. But, in The Garden of Earthly Delights, she reminds me of Barbara Kingsolver. If you enjoy great writing, and a terrificstory, you will enjoy this book.<br />I highly recommend The Garden of Earthly Delights.	2003-08-31
US	52129420	R3K7Q1XDYT30Z2	0375505296	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Imaginative	The Dante Club is a wonderfully inventive mystery in the tradition of Umberto Ecco's The Name of the Rose or Ian Pears' the Instance of the Fingerpost. Matthew Pearl's book takes place in 1865 in Boston. Pearl creates a fictional version of the members of the original Dante Club who were engaged in the first American translation of Dante's Divine Comedy. In the novel, the murderer uses the Inferno as the inspiration for committing gruesome killings modeled after the torturous punishments of Dante's hell. First a prominent judge is murdered, then a prominent minister, then a prominent businessman. Each time a body is found, the police a baffled, but the Dante Club recognizes the punishments for what they are.<br />The original members of the Dante Club included Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (poet), Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, whose famous son bears the same name, James Russell Lowell (poet), George W. Greene (historian), and JT Fields (publisher). Nowadays, it is hard to imagine the amount of animosity aroused by the mere idea of translating this poem. Pearl gives us insight into the politics of 19th century Harvard University as his characters wind through the mystery. The poem and its original language are considered, by some Harvard administrators and overseers, to be vulgar, corrupting, and Catholic! The heroes are the members of the Dante Club who fight this ignorance. They live inside the poem. As great poets and wordsmiths, they struggle to balance the essence of the translation with its poetry. Pearl's imagination and writing skills are strongest when he writes about these characters; he engages us; he makes us care about getting that translation done; about foiling the small minded at Harvard.<br />Then, Pearl weaves in a fictionalized mulatto policeman, Boston's first. He writes about the corruption of both the Boston's political system and its police. With these choices he has to write about post civil war racism. He then is compelled to make heroes out of themembers of the Dante Club, who all appear to have 20th century sensitivity to these issues. Once he chose to make one of the main characters black, I think had no choice. While Racism and heroism are well worth writing about, it is in this part of the tale that Pearl lacks imagination. It is only in these segments of the novel that Pearl is predictable. It is for this reason, that I lowered my Amazon.com rating from 5 to 4 stars.<br />All in all, Pearl has written a delightful book with an intriguing concept. I recommend it.	2003-07-18
US	52129420	R3VU6AFIGFM7HO	0375504907	635066654	Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books	Books	5	154	168	N	N	a glimpse of Upsilamba!	Azar Nafisi has written a brilliant, moving, and frightening book. As a professor of English literature at Tehran University, she provides a unique perspective on the Iranian revolution that changed the world.  <br />She considers herself an intellectual. She marched against the west and the USA support of the Shah of Iran. She tells of the joy that she and her colleagues felt at his fall. She tells of the changes in everyday life for intellectuals and for women as the Islamists took over the country. She left her job at the university (a job that she loved) because she refused to wear the veil. She tells of the effects of the eight year long Iraq/Iran war on the women of Tehran, the tyranny of the religious leaders who issue their decrees as though they came directly from God. <br />Nafisi's story is one of change, tyranny, fascism, and the failure in the 20th century to defend women when their identity and their humanity are stolen in the name of religion. It is also the story of personal courage, intelligence, commitment, and love.  <br />Nafisi lead a book discussion group for a select group of women in her home in Tehran before leaving Iran. The forbidden fruit that they read was Lolita, Pride and Prejudice, Daisy Miller, and the Great Gatsby! They risked so much to do this; they risked imprisonment, beatings, rape, and perhaps execution. <br />She tells her story and some of the stories of her students through these group discussions. She has changed the name of the women that are still alive to protect them. She tells one of her student's stories. While in prison she knew of guards who repeatedly raped a young beautiful girl. They justified this punishment because their heinous acts would deny her access to heaven. In this interpretation of Islam, only virgins could go to heaven and God has no punishment for the rapists.<br />We, in the USA, live such safe, comfortable lives even in the wake of 9/11. Our free public libraries, bookstores, and Amazon.com provide such easy access to Nabokov, Austen, James, and Fitzgerald, and yet so few of us read them. We post public reviews on controversial books on Amazon.com accepting the minimal risk of a negative vote. What do we know of the Iranian revolution that in the name of Islam has made women invisible, that has morality police, and bans these dangerous books? Our respect for religious freedom makes us tenuous in dealing with atrocities committed in God's name! <br />I highly recommend this book. <br />Note to the author: if you are reading this, thank you for you have given us all a glimpse of Upsilamba!	2003-07-05
US	52129420	RP1JES4O5ZPTV	0345363132	74059498	The Sunne in Splendour	Books	5	122	127	N	Y	Practically Perfect	This is the best of the historic fiction genre.  I cannot recall the last time I enjoyed a 900+ page novel so much.  The Sunne in Splendour is an historic novel about the War of the Roses and its players; its about Warwick, Edward, Richard, Henry the last, Lancastrian king, Marguerite d’Anjou, the Woodvilles, the Nevilles, and the Tudors.  Having read Allison Weir’s history, The War of the Roses, and having seen Shakespeare’s Richard III, I thought I knew a bit about both the story and the players.  But I never quite saw them the story in this light.<br />One reviewer described this book as daring.  I agree.  Unlike Shakespeare, and the histories written by Tudor sycophants, Penman (through historic fiction) portrays Richard sympathetically, and heroically.  She represents his claim to the throne as legitimate and creates a plausible alternative to disappearance of the princes in the tower, one in which Richard is quite innocent.  <br />This is a story full of power struggles, warfare, greed, and avarice.  It is a story full of malice, politics betrayal, murder, and yes love.   <br />Is should be hard to care about people who lived in the 15th century, but it is not.  Sharon Kay Penman brings all of the characters and their many faces to life. She tells the story to the 30+ years of warfare.  We all know that history is written by the victorious. Five centuries after the events, Penman brilliantly gives Richard III a voice. <br />I highly recommend this book.	2003-06-11
US	52129420	RQEUU7ZCXAF71	0399149716	802275827	This Just In: What I Couldn't Tell You on TV	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	This is the best of the "oh yeah  I remember that" books	This is a terrific book.  It is not an important book, but it is full of terrific \\"oh yeah's\\" for anyone over 40 years old. This is because Schieffer's memoirs will jog your memory.<br />Oh yeah, I remember when President Ford dumped his VP, Rockefeller, and put Bob Dole on the ticket.  Oh yeah, I remember when Ford pardoned Nixon.  Oh yeah, I remember when Tower's nomination to the Cabinet got derailed, a young congressman... what was his name?  Oh yeah, it was Dick Cheney who eventually became Secretary of Defense.<br />Much of Schiffer's career is the result of good and bad timing. And his book deals with this in a direct and self effacing way. Dan Rather was ahead of him at the White House, on the weekend news.  Walter Chronkite and Leslie Stahl preceeded him in the \\"Face the Nation\\" slot.  He is candid about his first, incorrect reaction to the Watergate breakin reports. His stories about the competitiveness of tv reporters and anchors have a refreshing honesty to them.<br />But this is no kiss and tell book.  When he relates a story about another reporter with a drinking problem, he does not disclose the name, or circumstances.  He has the grace and dignity to leave out details that would have us all guessing who it might be.  Schiffer is not a gossip, and I applaud him for that.<br />The timing of the publication of this book could have been better.  It was published in hard cover just the the US and the UK were preparing for war with Iraq.  But, I suspect that Schiffer will take it in stride.  Perhaps, the soft cover will come out at a better time.<br />Schiffer's book is easy and delightful reading for anyone who has followed the last 25 or 30 years of national news.  It won't change your life or the way you see things.  It won't give you great original insight into the issues of these days.  It will however provide hours of pure enjoyment as you read it.  I highly recommend This Just In.	2003-04-28
US	52129420	R26DKZZUNA58WL	0940450402	767183952	Norris: Novels and Essays (Library of America)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Brilliant overlooked works	The Library of America (LOA)is a not for profit publisher dedicated to keeping great American writing in print.  In this volume (number 33 in the series that currently has 140 volumes) LOA publishes three novels and twenty-two essays by Frank Norris.  While this is not all of his writing, this is the only currently available source for some of these works within the budget of most readers.  I purchased this volume simply because of the LOA.  I had never heard of Frank Norris.  My only expectation was great writing.  I was not disappointed.<br />The first novel, Vandover and the Brute, was written while Norris was a student at Harvard.  It was published after his death and appears to have been altered by his brother who found parts of the novel and its then strong language objectionable. Even with this, I found it to be an interesting story of a indolent young man's moral slide.  It is a story of the perfidy of a good friend, rationalizing bad moral decisions, and playing poorly the hand that the main character, Vandover, has been dealt.  Good intentions never last long.  Vandover takes advantage of a girl in his set.  Her subsequent suicide sets in motion his slide.  All along he takes the path of least resistence; he makes slopy, lazy, irresponsible choices that contribute to the inevitable outcome.<br />McTeague, the second novel, was also begun while Norris was at Harvard and published in 1899.  While not as lurid a subject as Vandover, parts of the book were quite controversial at the time.  The book notes indicate that a passage describing incontinence was rewritten for its second printing due to pressure from the publisher.  This LOA printing of this novel contains the original passage.  I think that McTeague is the most enjoyable or the three novels.  The writing is so clear and realistic.  I think that it influenced some of the great realistic writers to follow.    <br />The last novel in this volume was titled The Octopus, and was an ambitious undertaking.It was to be the first part of a never completed trilogy, THE EPIC OF THE WHEAT.  It has a hugh cast of characters and reminds me of both the novel and movie \\"GIANT\\". (Of course, the Octopus is better written.) Missing is the second part of the trilogy called the Pit.  (Norris died suddenly in his early thirties before he wrote the third book.) For some reason LOA chose to include some of Norris'essays instead of the Pit.  Regardless...<br />This is a wonderful volume of extraordinarily well written works.  Discovering the writing of Frank Norris was one of readings great pleasures.  I highly recommend this book.  I also encourage you to check out some of the other volumes published by the Library of America.	2003-04-05
US	52129420	R15D2AEZ5B427X	1585421936	505056302	The Hydrogen Economy	Books	2	6	8	N	Y	Are two good chapters enough?	The Hydrogen Economy is full of problems, but not the ones that the author thought he was writing about.  Jeremy Rifkin should have written a long magazine article or a pamphlet. Instead he has written two important relevant chapters about the Hydrogen Economy and filled the rest of the book with soft and fuzzy pseudo science and history. He incorrectly states that slaves built the Egyptian pyramids… Well, perhaps in the movies but, no self-respecting Egyptologist has ever found any evidence to support that claim. But then, who cares? This book is supposed to be about “when there is no more oil…” What is pyramid building doing in a book about the Hydrogen Economy???  Okay, if you find that to be picky then just imagine applying the second law of thermodynamics to the rise and fall of civilizations. Yes, Rifkin has written an entire chapter on this premise. In just 26 pages he has covered the rise and fall of all civilizations that have existed on our planet. This is the basic problem with the book. Rifken just does not have enough material to expand his basic and appealing premise into a book that lists for ...in hardcover. And, so he drifts.<br />That being said, there are two chapters that are worth reading. Chapter 2, Sliding Down Hubbert’s Bell Curve, is a well written synopsis of the work of M. King Hubbert, a geophysicist who worked for Shell Oil Company. In a 1956 published paper that dealt with predicting the peak and subsequent decline in oil production, Hubbert postulated that oil production starts at 0, then rises continuously until about half of the recoverable oil is produced. At this point oil production has peaked, and decline is inevitable. When plotted, this process looks like a normal bell curve.  Initially, Hubbert’s paper and its thesis were not taken seriously. Now there is so much supporting data that is it impossible not to be startled by the simple elegance of Hubbert’s Bell Curve. In this chapter with 96 footnotes referencing academics, and energy experts, Rifkin presents Hubbert’s Bell Curve and its current implications. Here you have Rifkin at his best.<br />Unfortunately, you have to plough through over 100 pages of rising and falling civilizations, the Islamic wildcard, CO2 problems, and global warming before getting to Chapter 8, the “Dawn of the Hydrogen Economy.” Even here, Rifkin uses filler. He opens the chapter with four paragraphs about how Jules Verne got it right in The Mysterious Island. Please!<br />I suggest that if you want to read about energy alternatives, find another book. This is such an important topic, and this is such an unimportant book.	2003-03-24
US	52129420	R22CP1U86U3DPB	0375509283	461355741	The Threatening Storm: The Case for Invading Iraq	Books	5	25	31	N	Y	Dove or Hawk, this is the Book to Read	If you only read one book about (what appears to be) the pending invasion of Iraq, let this be the one.  Kenneth M. Pollack lays out his case in three parts.  Starting with Part I, Iraq and the United States, he clearly lays out the our history.  Historically, the US involvement in the region has been minimal in comparison to France and England.  The US did not exist during the crusades, did not colonize north africa and the mid east, and recognized modern day borders that define the mid east after they were drawn by Winston Churchill and Gertrude Bell, both British citizerns.  Ironically, it is the US that is today the symbol of all that history in which it played no (so little) part.  <br />Pollack pulls no punches as he outlines the many mistakes made by the US in its dealing with Saddam.  Through his eyes you can see the workings of intelligence, the disagreements, the miscalculations, the reassessments, and how international priorities are set, disgarded, and reset.  He thinks that the US misunderstood just who Sadaam is; he thinks that Sadaam misunderstood just who the US is.  <br />Part II, Iraq Today, and Part III, The Options, he lays out the case for the invasion.  Containment has not worked.  This book does not blame Democrats, nor does it blame the Rebublicans for where we find ourselves today.  Pollack acknowledges mistakes and miscalculation were made by both.  He does blame the perifdy of the French, Chinese and Russians, who &quot;not only walked away from the committments they joined the international community in making in 1990-91 but actively worked to undermine them.&quot;   <br />If you want to be convinced that invasion is the right thing to do, then read this book.  If you want to understand how we got here, then read this book.  If you just need to know more than the headlines about this impending confrontation, then read this book.	2003-03-12
US	52129420	RRXOM5GVGCHS0	0140153381	407852732	Eleanor of Aquitaine: A Biography	Books	5	22	29	N	Y	900 years later we still remember	Name 5 important women born between 100 a.d. and 1900 a.d.  Eleanor of Aquitaine has to be on your list, perhaps in the first or second postion.  <br />Born in the 12th century, she married Louis VII of France, divorced him and married Henry II King of England.  She bore 10 children, 2 to Louis, and 8 to Henry.  Among them Prince John and Richard the lion hearted of Robin Hood fame.<br />It was a time of great change.  The Church was changing.  It no longer saw women soley as the spawn of Satan.  The cult of the Virgin Mary was taking hold.  The politics of monarchy were changing.  King Louis VII ruled only a small portion of what is modern day France.  King Henry II wasn't even English, but a French nobleman who benefited from the untimely death of William the Conqueror's heir, and Civil War in England.  He could \\"seize the day\\".(Horace)  The second crusade led by Louis, failed miserably; perhaps some of modern day Muslin/Christian conflict has roots here.  It appears that Louis did not heed Horace's advice.<br />And Eleanor, where was she?  Well she joined Louis on the Crusade.  In fact she was blamed for the outcome of the first disasterous battle.  It seems that it is easier to blame the queen and her excessive luggage, than the head of the crusading army.  Thousands began the Crusade, only hundreds returned.  It is not hard to imagine how Eleanor and the others felt.  But, she was stuck with Louis.  Or was she?  Louis needed a male heir, and Eleanor had not produced one. Divorce was not what Louis wanted, but he did need that male heir, and Eleanor was not getting any younger. And so, he freed Eleanor.<br />Imagine Louis' surprise at her marrying Henry just 8 weeks later.  By the way she forgot to ask his permission.  Louis was not happy.<br />But Henry was.  He got Eleanor and Acquitaine, 5 sons of which 4 survived to manhood, 3 daughters who through marriage, could be used to achieve his political ambitions.  Everything is going so well.  Then what does he do? Well, Henry falls in love.  Eleanor moves out, back to Aquitaine.  And then?  The male children of this estranged couple plot against their father, then seek asylum with Louis Capet, Eleanor's X.  Of course, mother Eleanor is easy to blame.  <br />In modern terms we might refer to this family as disfunctional.  However, that disfunction had a price, and a payoff.  France and England warred on and off over the next 300 years.  Eleanor's decendants sat on the thrones of England, France, Jerusalem, and the Holy Roman Empire.  We remember her today.  And unlike many of the middle ages chroniclers, we think that she was important and we admire her.<br />It is difficult to write a biography from the distance of eight or nine centuries.  There are few reliable, contemporay sources.  It is most difficult to write one about the most powerful woman in Europe, since few thought that women were important enough to chronicle except in the blame game.  Marion Meade has done such an admirable job.  Her biography make Eleanor come alive. That this book, copywrited in 1977, remains in print is a testament to her impecable research and excellent writing.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2003-02-17
US	52129420	RLT2TS14N1XTT	1931082197	277673599	Paul Bowles: The Sheltering Sky/ Let It Come Down/ The Spider's House (Library of America)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Interesting, Interesting, Interesting	This is my first exposure to the writings of Paul Bowles. What a surprise! The three novels in this edition were written in the late 1940’s to mid 1950’s. His characters are not at all dated. His writing is clear, and uncluttered. In contrasted to his writing style, are his characters who complex, murky and often compelling. I read straight through from the Sheltering Sky to Let It Come Down to The Spider’s House. He is one of the most interesting 20th century American writers. The Library of America has done a wonderful service to readers by ensuring that Paul Bowles will remain in print. <br />The Sheltering Sky, the first of three novels in this edition, is short, only 250 pages long. It seems to be considered his defining novel. It is about a married couple, Kit, and Port, and their sojourn into the Sahara Desert. They are dishonest with each other about many things, their shaky marriage, and the danger of the trip they have embarked on, fidelity. They cannot take charge of anything, their lives, their marriage, their trip, and even their privacy. The decisions that they make exude with bad judgement. This is exposed early on, when Porter goes off for a walk alone the city. He encounters a stranger, Smail; Port walks off with this stranger, out of the city into the desert to meet and be entertained by a young girl, who he is told is “not a [prostitute] but will want to be paid. The characters do dangerous things.  You sense their doom with them. And, like them, the reader is compelled to go on. I do not want to give too many plot details as it might spoil the pleasure of reading what I think is an overlooked 20th century classic.<br />Let It Come Down,  is about a bank clerk seeking adventure in Tangier.  Like the Sheltering Sky, there is no happy ending here. You can sense the impending doom of the main character as he makes one bad decision after another. He gets involved with a local prostitute, financial intrigue, and in the end, drugs. <br />The Spider’s House starts with a quote from the Thousand and One Nights  “To my way of thinking, there is nothing more delightful than to be a stranger. And so I mingle with human beings because they are not of my kind, and precisely in order to be a stranger among them.” In the wake of the worldwide effects of militant Islamism, this is a fascinating book to read. <br />The characters include two Americans. The first, Stenham, sees the French colonial rule in Morocco as destructive. He becomes attracted to Islam. The second is arrogant and contemptuous of the locals, the country, just about everything Moroccan. Each is stranger. Each sees and judges the Moroccan people, their culture, and their religion through western eyes. And so, Bowles introduces Amar, a teenage Moroccan boy, who is a direct descendent of the prophet, Mohammed. The boy is illiterate and poor, but not ignorant.  The view of the world that each maintains at the beginning of the novel cannot hold. Set in a time of rebellion, there is plenty of plot to keep the characters moving along. <br />I highly recommend these three novels. This hard cover edition is published by the Library of America. It is the one that you will want to buy, and keep as part of your permanent library.	2002-10-26
US	52129420	R2FXMRTSFWIGC2	074323443X	199612628	Dearest Friend: A Life of Abigail Adams	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Remember the Lady	This is a beautifully written tale of an extraordinary 18th century woman. She was the wife and “dearest friend” of one US President and the mother of another. Her husband depended on her political acumen, and trusted her judgment. She was sometimes referred to as the “old lady” in the politics. She corresponded on business and politics with many men including Thomas Jefferson. Perhaps our first American feminist, Abigail Adams was full of contradictions.<br />As a staunch revolutionary, she foresaw the need for independence from England perhaps even before her husband, John. She advocated education and political freedom for women long before it was respectable to do so.<br />As practical homemaker, she worked the farm, raised the children, and handled the family finances including investments. Abigail liked investing in securities; John preferred land. They made investments in both.  Her dependability in these matters secured the home front. This allowed her husband to attend the Continental Congress, sign the Declaration of Independence, serve as minister to France and then England, as well as serve as the first vice president, and then 2nd President of the fledgling USA.  Without her shepherding the family finances, either the family would have been ruined; or the United States would have lost one of its great founding fathers.<br />As a post-revolution political conservative, she hated the republicanism of Jefferson, although she respected him as an honorable man. She foresaw the problems with the French Revolution before Jefferson and his Republican cohorts. She did not understand the criticism of the free press. She strongly advocated the Alien and Sedition Act, passed by congress during her husband’s presidency. It addressed the two of what she thought were the serious threats to the security of the USA… that of foreigners and criticism of the government by the press.<br />The paradox of Abigail Adams is that she “had always established her identity through her husband’s achievements.”  The author tells us that “Probably Abigail would have been astonished to find herself transformed into something of a celebrity one hundred fifty years after her death.” “Yet surely she would have approved of the reasons for her fame: the interest of a later age in the history of family and domestic life, as well as the history of politics, and above all its interest in the emancipation of women and the discovery of women in the past who spoke out on behalf of their sex.”<br />The beauty of this book is that Lynne Withey presents Abigail Adams as a real human being, not an icon.  It is easy to understand why Abigail was John’s Dearest Friend.<br />I highly recommend this book.identity through her husband’s achievements.”  The author tells us that “Probably Abigail would have been astonished to find herself transformed into something of a celebrity one hundred fifty years after her death.” “Yet surely she would have approved of the reasons for her fame: the interest of a later age in the history of family and domestic life, as well as the history of politics, and above all its interest in the emancipation of women and the discovery of women in the past who spoke out on behalf of their sex.”<br />The beauty of this book is that Lynne Withey presents Abigail Adams as a real human being, not an icon.  It is easy to understand why Abigail was John’s Dearest Friend. <br />I highly recommend this book.	2002-08-10
US	52129420	R3QZDQHMYAWDYK	0761104879	603792589	The NPR Guide to Building a Classical CD Collection: Second Edition, Revised and Updated	Books	4	184	188	N	Y	Brilliant reviews on orchestral works and concertos	The NPR Guide to Building a Classical CD Collection is a good start but, it has its limitations. Ted Libbey gave himself a daunting task in putting this guide together. He did an excellent job on the two chapters on orchestral works and concertos, which comprise about half the book. These chapters alone make this book worth the money. His commentary is concise without losing important detail. The reasons that he selected the recommended recordings are clearly laid out. He gives the audiophile a genuine opportunity to understand what is good in a specific recording and what is missing. In many cases he provides more than one choice and explains the differences between the recordings. Based on his commentary, I am obsessively trying to find the Elan recording of Santiago Rodriguez playing Prokofiev’s Piano Concerto No. 3.  <br />As the guide progresses, however, the author seems to lose interest. His chapter on chamber music is adequate.  Then, he zips through solo keyboard works and sacred music.  By the time he gets to the last chapter on Opera he has given up. It is ridiculously short. The entire subject is covered in 60 pages!  It is not well edited. At one point he states that Leontyne Price is the “great Aida of our time”; then he does not mention her recording of this Verdi masterpiece. His recommendation of Mirella Freni’s Aida is a surprise. It is in this chapter that the author has decided not to give any reasons for his recommendations. And so, we are left puzzled. What is wrong with Leontyne Price’s Aida? All of Marilyn Horne’s opera recordings are overlooked. He correctly lists the brilliant Victoria de los Angeles and Jussi Bjorling recording of La Boheme, but fails to note that this is a mono recording.  <br />Perhaps Ted Libbey should have co authored this book with someone interested in vocal music, or represented this as the essential guide to orchestral works and concertos. It is certainly worth having. But the true classical CD collector will need other guides for help in finding those special vocal and solo instrument recordings. I recommend this with some reservation.	2002-06-16
US	52129420	R19X7DZ78IEXGV	0060188731	546555129	Bel Canto: A Novel	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A beautiful adagio	Bel Canto is itself, a beautiful song; the writing is beautiful singing. This is a story is about quietness and the changes it brings about. It is about the beauty inside us that no one notices. But most of all it is about living. <br />The story is improbable... a birthday party for a Japanese corporate CEO in an unnamed South American country is supposed to get the Japanese company to invest in that country; the party is interrupted by terrorists who want to kidnap the president of that same country; the President of that country skipped coming to the party so that he could watch his favorite soap opera. So, what else could the terrorists do but take all of the guests as hostages? But, how else would you get a renowned American opera singer in the same room with the translator; the Vice President of that country in the same room with the boy Ishmael who learns chess by watching; the girl terrorist Carmen in the same room with the CEO? This was not the plan.<br />The characters are improbable. No one panics. No one shows his true ugly self under the stress. The exact opposite occurs. The characters settle into quiet routines that seem more akin to a retreat than a kidnapping.<br />Patchett's writing is like a beautiful Mozart adagio. The book's exposition is slow and haunting, and it resonates long after it is put down. Ann Patchett is the only writer I have ever read who makes music with the silent words on the page.  I highly recommend this book.	2002-06-08
US	52129420	R38J6W0AC46ORL	0609808893	959856545	When We Were Gods: A Novel of Cleopatra	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Terrific historical novel	This novel has been overlooked, and that’s too bad. Colin Falconer recreated ancient Egypt and Rome with a vibrancy that cannot be attained in a biography. Most of what we know about Cleopatra was written by her enemies, and so has to be read with skepticism. Falconer fanaticizes about her as a woman. This tale treats her with a respect lacking in the \\"histories\\" and most other historic novels about Cleopatra. What a remarkable women. So young, with so many enemies and no one to trust! <br />I am somewhat startled by the Book Description ...but then I realized that most of it was taken from the back of the book. So much of this hype does not represent the wonderful novel inside the covers. Cleopatra did not inherit “ the richest empire in the world”; she inherited a contested claim to share the throne of Egypt with her younger brother Ptolemy. Her father was deeply in debt to Rome for his throne. Cleopatra did not “brazenly” seek “a partnership with the only man who could secure Egypt’s safety.” She was smuggled into Alexandria to meet Julius Caesar in the hope of staying alive and on the throne, and maintaining some semblance of an independent Egypt. <br />This is a wonderful historical novel that combines the best of historic fact with the imagination needed to reconstruct ancient characters. I highly recommend “When We Were Gods”.	2002-04-28
US	52129420	R8LIUFH2QBPM	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	What went wrong?  Who did this to us?	This is a brilliant book by a renowned expert, Bernard Lewis.  He is a professor of Near Eastern studies at Princeton University. And, so it may surprise some readers to discover just how readable this, his most recent book, is.<br />Although this was written prior to 9/11, it could not be timelier. This is a timely read if you want if know about the culture that expanded from its roots in Mecca and Medina to one that ruled the Mid East, northern Africa, Spain, and Portugal and finally knocked at the gates of Vienna, not once, but twice. It is a history that we are dealing with today. Bernard Lewis presents a compelling argument that as military failures occurred, one explanation that took root in the Islamic world was that God was displeased because Muslims were not leading lives in accordance with God’s wishes. Religious leaders became more powerful, and culture became more insulated. They seem to have been disinterested in Europe.<br />This is a timely read, if you want to know about the culture that saw no rights for slaves, infidels, and women in the 7th century, and sees not need to change that stance even in the 21st century.<br />This is a timely read if you want to understand just what questions are being asked and answered.  Is the question “What went wrong?” or is it “Who did this to us?” One answer leads to taking corrective actions and implementing change, the other answer leads to blaming others.  I think that Professor Lewis does address what went wrong.  What he does not do is this… he does not present us with a solution of how to fix it.  He does not tell us how we can survive together… or even if we can.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2002-03-24
US	52129420	ROI3BN2P9O464	0761535810	405735166	Bin Laden: The Man Who Declared War on America	Books	5	8	12	N	N	This is an important, serious book	Yosesef Bodansky has written a serious book about Bin Laden and the terrorist world in which he operates (operated?). It was published in 1999 long before the terrorist attacks on 9/11. <br />Bodansky links together the last 20 or so years of Islamic terrorismâ¦ their funding, the BCCI and it's collapse, al Qaida, their training, their links to Iran, Pakistan's ISI and its politics, their organization and their goals. He presents a picture of a global organization, not isolated individuals acting independently. He cites the religious and intellectual leadership that reconciles Sunni and Shiite differences and uniting them in the greater cause of jihad against the infidel west. He clarifies how such leadership has justified the elimination of opposition in their homelands based on un-Islamic policies. These are of course self-proclaimed leaders. <br />Is this a biography of Bin Laden? It is certainly not a typical biography. We don't learn about his childhood, his relationship with his siblings and parents, and whether he got good grades in school. We do learn about the relationships that the author believes made him the man that he is. In fact in the first 2 chapters the author presents a picture of a man that you might admire, if you didn't know what was to come. <br />After the 9/11 attacks, I saw educated, English speaking Muslins living in the mid east interviewed on television denying Bin Ladenâs involvement, demanding that the US show their proof of his involvement, and citing him as an Islamic hero of the Afghan resistance. I thought it they were just lying supporters of a terrorists. I saw the Palestinians dancing in the streets. Are these one and the same people? Why would people who danced in the streets at the murder of thousands of people that they had never met, have an ethical or moral problem with lying? Bodansky's book explains much of this sentiment. I did not like what I read.<br />Some reviewers have cited a lack of footnotes as the reason for dismissing this book. I am amazed how important this seems to be to these readers. There are five pages of sources listed at the end of the book citing over one hundred sources! Given the events of 9/11 and the subsequent disclosures of Bin Laden's organization that have come out of Afghanistan, I cannot take these criticisms seriously. <br />Badandky's book focuses on the American embassy bombings in Africa and what lead up to them. But, his last two chapters, \\"The Bin Laden Plans\\" and \\"What's Next\\", are chilling, and accurate. This is an important book to read if you are interested in trying to understand more than the man. Bin Laden is/was a part of a terrorist movement; he helped create an infrastructure that will exist beyond his demise. <br />I highly recommend this book.	2002-02-21
US	52129420	R1B8QLCLY4F7E2	0553269631	692550038	The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter	Books	5	20	22	N	N	reread this as an adult	I am always amazed how books, such as The Heart is a Lonely Hunter, improve with age. I first read it in high school and was bored. Now I have reread this book as an adult. It touches my heart and soul.<br />The Heart is a Lonely Hunter is so well titled. It encompasses lonely souls who cluster around John Singer, a deaf mute. Singer losses his deaf mute roommate and companion, Antonapolous, when he is committed to an asylum. He is now alone… isolated. This change operates as a catalyst for the rest of the story.<br />Published in 1940 before the creation of political correctness, its characters explore fascism, communism, racism, and poverty. They are misfits, isolated even when together in the same room. After his friend is committed to the asylum, John Singer takes a room with the Kelly family. The various characters that populate the novel visit John Singer in his room. They talk to John Singer, who can understand them through lip reading. Each character finds in John Singer what he/she needs to find… a sympathetic heart. But none of the characters understands or knows John Singer. He has no one to talk to; no one who to understand him; no one to help fend off his own loneliness. For John Singer, there is no sympathetic heart. <br />For vacation, he visits Antonapolous is the asylum, where his insane friend cannot care about him. Singer responds to Antonapolous in the same way as the visitors to his room respond to him. He talks to him using sign language, but Antonapolous does not talk to him. He finds in this friend his sympathetic heart. This relationship parallels to his own position with the characters who visit his room.  The novel reaches its climax when Antonapolous dies, and Singer can no longer find a reason for living.<br />This is a beautifully written book that takes the reader into the South in the 1930’s with a truth that is hard to find in most contemporary novels. I highly recommend The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.	2001-11-11
US	52129420	RCMSBI41UOHWM	1883011701	852465817	Henry James: Complete Stories 1864-1874 (Library of America)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Each story is unique	Most of us discover Henry James in an English or American Literature class.  I don’t think that I appreciated Henry James’ stories a student.  He required too much attention from me as a reader.  Now I continuously marvel at the two things that make him such a joy to read… 1.  He writes so well.  He has to be read slowly; every word counts; every sentence leads inevitability to the next; every paragraph is complete, and 2.  He has so much to say.  Each story is unique.  Unlike many lesser writers, Henry James never repeats himself.  He never wastes his talent.<br />A previous reviewer states that some of these stories are amateurish.  I fail to see that.  It was such a pleasure to read even his first story, A Tragedy of Error, which was published unsigned.  Its main characters are a woman and her lover.  The woman’s long absent husband is about to return, and they are about to be discovered.  In just 22 pages, we can feel their fear of discovery and their evil as the lovers plot the husband’s murder.<br />In comparison, The Madonna of the Future, is a serene story set in Florence, Italy.  It is told in the first person singular, with the narrator presented as an observer until close to the end.  He encounters a painter whose masterpiece is much talked about but not seen.  He quietly befriends Theobald, the painter, and through him meets the model for the Madonna, Serafina.  Unintentionally, the narrator is a catalyst for the final actions of Theobald.  The ending is compassionate, but as much of a surprise as that in A Tragedy of Error. <br />Other stories include sweet characters that turn out to be manipulative gold diggers, spoiled children who control loving parents, and polite fiends.  Many of these characters have secrets that need to be disclosed to the reader; some are just romantic.  Some characters behave well; many do not.  James writes mostly of the upper classes, excessively polite, judgmental, repressed, and full of secrets.  <br />This volume contains his earliest stories.  I’ve never read a review that holds any of these stories to be a masterpiece.  But James is such a brilliant writer that any of his work is worth the time to read.  I highly recommend this volume as a start.	2001-10-18
US	52129420	R2Z9YX27L3AVQC	0684868733	801984050	Stories and Poems for Extremely Intelligent Children of All Ages	Books	5	137	138	N	N	This is the one to own	There are so many collections of stories and poems available at Amazon, your local bookseller, and the library.  THIS IS THE ONE TO OWN.  It is for adults as well as children.  Although not touted as a read aloud book, Bloom’s collection is perfect for that purpose.  In fact, it is the best collection of read aloud stories and poems that I have found… and I own many.  <br />My eleven-year-old daughter and I have a tradition of reading out loud every night.  We have tried most of the published read aloud books.  We have read stories, poem, and novels.  We have read ancient myths, contemporary fiction, and even “The Guiness Book of World Records”. We started Bloom’s book at the beginning with “The Human Seasons” by John Keats, and have continued forward.  These are stories and poems to read and reread.  Some will be committed to memory.<br />Most of the stories and poems in Bloom’s book were written in the 19th century or earlier.   (No one has to be paid for a copyright.)  Some of the readings, such as “The Owl and the Pussycat” by Edward Lear, and Lewis Carroll’s “The Walrus and the Carpenter” are easily found elsewhere.  Many selections, such as, “Reflections” by Lafcadio Hearn and “The Recessional” by Saki, though, are totally new to me.  Most can be read aloud in a few minutes, but a few require a longer commitment of time.  These are perfect for bedtime.<br />Our children can find the Harry Potter books and “The Guiness Book of World Records” without the help of their parents and teachers.  But, they will seldom find Stephen Crane, and Rudyard Kipling on their own.   If you want your children to be able to read and understand the great writers in the English language, Shakespeare, Henry James and Charles Dickens, then they need to have an ear for the cadence of the language as used in earlier times, as well as a large vocabulary.  Bloom’s book is a great start.<br />If you are going to own only one such collection of poemsand stories, let it be this one.   I highly recommend this book.	2001-10-17
US	52129420	R2L7CBFVDKH9K2	0590493590	517040406	Everything You Need To Know About Math Homework (Evertything You Need To Know..)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Perfect reference for 4th to 6th grade math	This is exactly what the title says it is... Everything you need to know about math homework.  <br />My daughter and I used it all last year when she was in 5th grade.  At first, I was the user; later she would start looking up her own answers.  For homework, she was given math worksheets that would reference something just covered in math class, such as, the associative, or the commutative property, or the formula for finding the area of a triangle.  If she didn't remember the rule or formula from math class, she had a ready reference. It covers the same material as her math textbook, but this was always on her desk.  The math textbook was sometimes sitting in her locker.<br />This book is well written, and edited.  It includes clearly laid out examples, with colorful graphics.  The index and table of contents are complete, and make this reference quick and easy to use.  Well worth the money...  I highly recommend this book.	2001-08-23
US	52129420	R23NOC58SBLNWE	0060285869	235700484	Antarctic Journal: Four Months at the Bottom of the World	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	clever, well written, interesting	Jennifer Owings Dewey spent four months in Antarctic sketching and photographing wildlife, and writing this wonderful book about the &#8220;last great wilderness on earth.&#8221;  The trip was made possible by a grant from the National Science Foundation.  The book jacket claims that it is appropriate for age 7 and up&#8230; well perhaps for a precocious child.  I think that (  ) has it right.  Age 9 to 12 seems more appropriate.<br />Written as a cross between a diary and letters home, and interspersed with drawings, and photographs, this is a small, almost intimate book.  I read the &#8220;Antarctic Journal&#8221; out loud to my 11 year-old daughter.  We talked about each journal entry or letter home,  and looked at all the pictures together.  We were introduced to the Adelie penguins, nesting gentoos, blue whales, Weddell seals, and krill.  We were given a little history lesson starting 200 million years ago with Gondwanaland, and many lessons in nature. Antarctic has only one year-round land-resident, a mite. It&#8217;s the size of a pinhead.  Also, male and female penguins share parenting, and they are absolutely devoted parents.  A &#8220;parent penguin suffering heat stroke will not abandon its nest.  It will fall dead in a heap first.&#8221;  Antarctica has its own etiquette.  Human visitors to Antarctica are not allowed to touch any wildlife.  However, penguins did check out the author, her clothes, and typewriter.<br />So many nature books are dry.  This one is clever, well written, and interesting.  It is a wonderful addition to our home library.  I highly recommend it.	2001-08-07
US	52129420	R38WDH9MA74JF2	0786868619	719432164	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	13	18	N	N	important chronicle of human rights violations	Stolen Lives  Twenty Years in a Desert Jail is an important book.   This is a compelling true story.  It outlines the life of Malika Oufkir, daughter of Moroccan general Oufkir. <br />Malika Oufkir has lead a unique life.  Her story does not begin with imprisonment.  It begins with being taken from her parents at age five to live in the palace.  She becomes the adopted daughter of the ruling monarch, Muhammad V of Morocco.  Although it is never fully explained, it appears that Malika is brought to the palace to be the companion for the kings daughter.  She is distraught; her parents acquiesce. It is the first lesson in the power of the monarchy.  Muhammad V dies and is replaced by his son Hassan II.  You might expect Malika to be returned home.  But no, Hassan might be offended if the it appears that the Oufkir family thinks less of him than of his father.  And so, Malika stays in the palace.  But this is just the beginning.  <br />Eventually, Malika returns to her family as a young adult.   Later General Oufkir, Malikas father, who is also a high placed advisor to the king, leads a coup detat.  He is killed.  Now the familys story of imprisonment begins.<br />The King has the family removed from Rabat by police.   Throughout the story, the police, and army are used to keep the family imprisoned.  Some knew the general and were sympathetic to the family.  Others had lost family in the coup detat and were filled with hatred.  The conditions for the family were continually reduced, until they were put in solitary confinement for seven years.   The treatment of the Oufkir family reads like a Nazi concentration camp story, with brutal guards, arbitrary punishments, malnutrition, and the loss of humanity.  Remember that their crime was being the family of General Oufkir.  The youngest child at the time of their arrest was three!<br />There is an escape that reads like fiction.  The country is put on high alert while the police search for the four Oufkirchildren who managed to dig a tunnel to escape.  It is only through contact with the French press and the outside world that they are finally saved.  Even then it takes seven more years (with the family under house arrest) before they are finally allowed to leave the country.  <br />I find that I agree with most of the negative reviews.  The book is poorly written, and poorly edited.  There are contradictions, and incomplete explanations.  It is confusing.  It was originally published in France and this book is a translation from French.  These shortcomings are annoying.  But this is more than a story of a family who has been through a rough time.  It is a chronicle of human rights violations that occurred in the last quarter of the 20th century.  It is a story of people who disappeared and lived to tell about it.   This was worth a better effort by the co-author, who is supposed to be a professional writer, and the editor, who should have done a better job.  Even with these serious shortcomings, this is an important story, and an important book.  It is recommended.	2001-08-01
US	52129420	R12JVCBM3X057F	0441788386	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land	Books	1	22	35	N	Y	What a waste of imagination, and time	WHAT A WASTE!  Heinlein writes 226 wonderful, imaginative pages about a human born and raised on Mars and his return to earth.  There is now a New World order called the Federation that behaves like a repressive banana republic.  They plan to eliminate the Man from Mars because he threatens their plans to own and colonize the red planet.  There are flying taxis landing on rooftops, and video telephones, and waterbeds.  Michael Smith is the Man from Mars and he has to learn about earth.  Because of his genetically superior parents, and his superior upbringing in a nest on Mars, Michael has the powers of a super hero.  He can make guns and men disappear when he senses the &#8220;wrongness&#8221; in them.  Of course, he senses the rightness in the main characters.  He has no inhibitions when it comes to ....  He is fascinated with religion and philosophy.  He has complete control over his body, and can discorporate (die) at will.  So what does he do.  He tries his hand at being a magician, and ends up as an evanglist.<br />Unfortunately this book is 438 pages long.  Unfortunately, Heinlein&#8217;s imagination failed him when it comes to women, ..., science, and religion.  Unfortunately, Heinlein didn&#8217;t write well when he wrote this book.<br />Others reviewers have picked up on the sexism of the statement, &#8220;Nine out of ten times, if a girls gets ..., it&#8217;s partly her fault.&#8221; But, there are so many more examples.<br />Other reviewers have picked up on Heinlein&#8217;s &#8220;cookie cutter&#8221; characters. I agree.<br />Other reviewers have called this book an &#8220;adolescent ... fantasy.&#8221;  I agree.  Heinlein groks free love, nudity and water brothers.  All that is missing from the 1960&#8217;s is the word groovy.  Perhaps it is replaced by grok.<br />Others have called it a diatribe against religion.  I agree.  His main character, Michael mimics the Christ, but resembles Charles Manson.<br />To read this book and enjoy it, you have to forget the SCIENCE in science fiction.  I just couldn&#8217;t do it.<br />There are so many books, and so little time.  I suggest that you do not waste yours reading this one	2001-07-23
US	52129420	R2B553RGS1CR5N	0300078188	114358510	Life in the Treetops: Adventures of a Woman in Field Biology	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Margaret Explains It All	Margaret Lowman writes candidly about her life... as though we were the closest of friends.  I expected her to write about her research, the difficulties of climbing into the rainforest canopies, and her globe trotting.  And she did.  She also writes of the professional challenges, cultural clashes, and personal problems she encounters as a woman in field biology, and that makes this book something quite special.<br />ON THE PERSONAL SIDE: Lowman married an Australian, had two children and lived in the outback, while conducting research on the Australian rain forests.  On the personal side, she was expected to be a housewife, and mother.  Her new Australian husband, and in-laws, did not understand her inner drive to spend time in her work.  While clearly her new family did not support her in her work, Lowman persisted and achieved.  She also made a decision to accept a teaching position at Williams College back in the US.  She packed up the boys, and headed for home.  She exchanged her marriage, and the boy's father, for a surprisingly supportive scientific community and her own supportive parents.  Lowman tells of her personal life with candor, but without bitterness.   While no one could accuse her of having an ordinary life, Lowman's book is also an every woman's story in that she chronicles the kind of day-to-day struggle of professional/career women faced (particularly in the 1970's and 1980's) in balancing career and family.<br />ON THE PROFESSIONAL SIDE: To help understand the interdependence of the rainforests Lowman mostly studies the small things... leaves, and the insects that eat them. It sounds easier than it is.  Most of the leaves to be studied are high up in the canopy of the rain forests.  Early in her career, she gains access using ropes and harnesses, and even a cherry picker when she was pregnant; later she has the luxury of using a construction crane, a dirigible, and even a walkway.  Lowman loves the forests, and her work.  (Her book contains an illustration of her favorite tree, ficus watkinsiana.)<br />Lowman ends the book telling us that it takes about the \\"same amount of energy to complain as it does to explain-but the results are incredibly different.\\"  Her book explains a great deal.  I highly recommend it.	2001-07-10
US	52129420	R3R6D3LLZUA3PM	0809230208	91002975	Once upon a Heroine: 450 Books for Girls to Love	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Must for your book shelf	This is a carefully constructed resource of books about and for girls.  While it includes recommendations on the well known...&quot;Little Women&quot;, &quot;Anne of Green Gables&quot; and &quot;Harriet the Spy&quot;, it also includes recommendations on unusual, clever and hard to find books such as Jan Andrews' &quot;Very Last First Time&quot; amd Jacqueline Dembar Greene's &quot;Out of Many Waters&quot;.<br />In addition to the typical one paragraph summaries of the books, the authors have interviewed dozens of prominent accomplished American women about their favorite childhood books.  Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor particularly enjoyed the &quot;Book of Knowledge&quot;,and author, Paula Danziger, read Nancy Drew books and &quot;Little Women&quot;.<br />This is the most thoughtful book of its kind.  It reviews 450 books by age and reading level.  My daughter and I have discovered wonderful books we would never have found on our own.  Be prepared to use your library, well as used book sales and services to find some of the great books.  <br />The authors have clearly put a great deal of thought and effort into best guide of books about and for girls.  If you are the sharing the adventure of reading with a girl, this is a must for your book shelf.<br />Highly recommended	2001-06-05
US	52129420	R11JKWO10W6N19	0345425502	560118008	The Life of Elizabeth I	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Survived and Thrived	This is a wonderful biography of Elizabeth I. Allison Weir writes in her preface that it was initially titled &quot;The Private Life of Elizabeth I&quot;. While it is impossible to separate her personal from her public life, most of this biography is about the former. This Weir also acknowledges this in her preface. I think that she should have stayed with her original thought. It would have eliminated some of the criticisms made by other reviewers, since so much of the book is about relationships she had, or may have had... so much of the book is about her marriage negotiations. All of it, however, is fascinating. <br />Attention to detail makes Allison Weir's work unlike any other biographer of Elizabeth I. With detail, Weir humanizes Elizabeth. Her chapter &quot;Frenzied Wooing&quot; deals with Elizabeth's courtship by the Duke of Anjou. He was not supposed to be in England, and yet he was there courting Elizabeth. At one point, Elizabeth &quot;arranged for him to view a court ball from behind a tapestry, and then gave the game away by showing off outrageously for his benefit, joining in more dances than usual and waving and smiling in his direction. Her courtiers politely pretended not to notice.&quot;<br />Elizabeth's survival, as a monarch is one of history's great miracles. She had the enemies one would expect any English monarch to have, and then she had more. Even her councilors derided the prospect of her ruling as a woman. Parliament even debated her need to marry and refused to fund her household if she did not proceed with marriage negotiations. She of course was furious, but realistic. She strung suitors, parliment and her councilors along for years. <br />How different the western world would be if she had been usurped, if Mary Stuart had ascended the throne of England, if Elizabeth had married. How she survived and thrived is a splendid tale.  I highly recommend this biography.	2001-05-27
US	52129420	R173EZWC1KEM8X	068480073X	644725873	Failing At Fairness: How Our Schools Cheat Girls	Books	5	8	13	N	N	required reading for parents of girls	&quot;Failing at Fairness&quot; is a landmark book in the education of girls.  Researchers Myra and David Sadker step away from the fuzzy assumptions we have about gender and concentrate on facts and specific behavior.  <br />The book is strongest on presenting the history of educating women, and defining specifically how girls are still getting shortchanged.  The authors clearly lay out their analysis of what is wrong with girl's education.  The weakness of the book is in the last chapter &quot;The Edge of Change&quot;.  The solution to any problem requires change, and this change requires a rethink of how we treat half the population.  It challenges our habits, our culture, our intellect and our pocketbook.   And , unfortunately, the Sadkers are a little light and fuzzy when suggesting solutions.  This is forgivable given the scope of the problem.<br />If you are a parent of a girl, or if you are or want to be a good teacher, I encourage you to read Failing at Fairness.	2000-10-23
US	52129420	R2A71EZRXUUGGR	157660070X	526044702	Deena Katz on Practice Management: For Financial Advisers, Planners, and Wealth Managers	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	I wish this had been written sooner	Deena Katz's book should be read by anyone even considering a career in independent financial planning, and asset management. Financial planners and money managers obtain technical competence through education and professional designation programs such as the CFP, and CFA. This book assumes that you already know your craft. It deals with the important business of establishing, enhancing and staying in business.<br />Katz is true to her title. She thoroughly addresses all aspects of managing a financial practice... including designing the business, adding a partner, staff structure, hardware, software, positioning, public relations, hiring, firing and refusing clients, as well as, retaining desirable clients. This book has been written for the financial professional who has control of the financial practice management. <br />I have been a practicing financial advisor for over 15 years. I wish Katz's book had been available sooner.	2000-09-27
US	52129420	R1V3CD3WQFT5S7	0060194995	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	11	12	N	N	read this as a teenager,,, reread it as an adult	&quot;It is a sin to kill a mockingbird.&quot;  This book is about  justice, and conscience... it is about race, and bigotry... it is about  courage, and cowardice... it is about values of the family, and the culture...  it is about humanity.   The novel speaks through the 8-year-old voice of  Scout Finch, the youngest child of a widower, Atticus Finch.  There are two  stories being told.  One story is about Scout, her older brother Jem and  their summertime friend Dill Harris as they pass three summers together in  a small town in Alabama, when they focused much of their energy on a  reclusive, neighbor, Boo Radley.  The other story is about the trial of Tom  Robinson, a black man accused of raping a white woman in 1930's Alabama.   Atticus is appointed to represent the accused.  The seamless writing brings  both stories together in perfect accord by the conclusion.<br />At first it  would seem unbelievable that \\"To Kill a Mockingbird\\" was written by a  Southern author, but upon reflection, it could have only been written by  someone from the South.  Harper Lee had one incredible story to tell and  she told it well.  Don't read this novel for inventiveness.  Read it for  the near perfect writing.  Read it to be moved.  Read \\"To Kill a  Mockingbird\\" because it is a sin not to.	2000-09-06
US	52129420	R2P6NKI3KMU70A	0140175903	273017191	500 Great Books by Women: A Reader's Guide	Books	5	86	88	N	N	Open this book to find more wonderful books	After reading some of the negative reviews posted on this book, I found myself compelled to respond. I am not sure how to define a great book. And clearly, anyone having the audacity to draw up an unconventional list of great books is asking for criticism. <br />o Is Jane Austin as good as writer as Stendhal?  o Are the Bronte sisters as important as Dickens?  o Is Edith Wharton as interesting as Thomas Mann?<br />Some people see these as an important choices. As a reader, I find myself drawn to them all, and drawn to lists that expand on what I've already read. If you want a standard list of good reading there are plenty around. Try the &quot;New Lifetime Reading Plan&quot; compiled by Clifton Fadiman and John S. Major. For fun you could read &quot;Great Books&quot; by David Denby. (He's a baby boomer writing about revisiting the classics by re-taking 2 courses in humanities and literature at Columbia University.)<br />I, however, prefer not to choose. The feminine voices in 500 GBBW are additions to, and not replacements for those other great books. Reading has always been a way to reach across time, and culture, to make us feel as, and for someone else, and to hear about something we have not or cannot experience. Excellent translations have given access to the words of Allende as well Homer. <br />Some have made this an issue of political correctness. If listening to a different voice that happens to be feminine is political correctness, then three cheers for PC. If you want to stay out of political correctness, but want to find and revisit some truly wonderful books, try &quot;500 Great Books by Women&quot;.	2000-09-04
US	52129420	R2AC47L49UQSI5	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	286	309	N	N	why do you want a 489th review of this book?	At the time of this writing, there are 488 customer reviews posted.  It  seems you either love this book or hate it.  I loved this book.<br />It is the  story of a family that goes to the Belgian Congo to perform Christian  missionary work in the 1950's. It is told in the first person by the wife  of the minister, and his daugthers.  Its point of view would of course be  feminine, but not necessarily feminist. <br />While some reviewers seem  personally offended at the author's treatment of the father, Nathan, I find  him sympathetic.  And, without him, there is no story.  Nathan's soul is  tortured.  Through a quirck of fate, he misses a battle of WWII where his  entire unit is lost.  He never deals with it and he is changed forever.   When he met his wife at a Christian revival meeting, he was kind and  committed to Chirst.  When he returns home from the service, we find that  he has become a rigid,  self righteous bible thumping preacher.  He  despises wife for his own perceived sin... he physically desires her.  He  barely tolerates his daugthers, as he takes the entire family to the  Belgian Congo to pursue what he believes is his calling from God.  The  hierarchy of his own church does not think that he is suited for missionary  work, and will not send him, but he manages to go anyway.  The family is  ill prepared for the Congo and this predictably has tragic consequences.   <br />Once in the Congo Nathan antagonizes the few western missionaries he has  contact with.  And, in the end he fails in his effort to save the souls of  the natives.  There is racism in the 1950's attitudes toward the  villagers... their souls need to be saved, but their lives are relatively  unimportant.  They can pray together, but not eat at the same table.  When  independence come, the other western missionaries flee, fearing for their  lives.  But Nathan stays and he will not allow his family to leave with the  others.   <br />There is the mother, who is trying to please her husband, to  be a good minister's wife, and to be good mother to her four daugthers.   She cannot do it all.  There are the 4 girls, one a teenager who hates  being uprooted from her friends, twins (one with a deformity), and a pre  schooler.  Their experience in the Congo changes forever who they are, and  they do not all return.  <br />The constancy is found in the lives of the  African villagers who have suffered much worse, than these missionaries.   There is the expected culture clash between the chief, the shaman, and  Nathan.  <br />Every great novel has characters who grow and change.  Nathan's  change took place in the Pacific in WWII.  He does not change again and  grow beyond that point.   While he expects the Africans to change into  Christians, they are constant in their own culture. That leaves it to the  women of the Poisonwood Bible to change and grow.  And, they do not  disappoint us.      Like other readers, I found the first 100 or so pages  slow going.  I almost put it down.  But I am so glad I persisted.  I highly  recommend the Poisonwood Bible, and hope that there is enough that is  unique in the above to justify posting a 489th review.	2000-07-08
US	52129420	R34URUEZKI26UN	0375503714	873402511	The Special Prisoner: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	This novel is too short!	This extraordinary book is too short.  On the surface it's a simple story of one WWII U.S. pilot who was shot down over Japan, and survived as a POW.  As it unfolds it is a complex story of the life long effects of brutality,  racism, Christian forgiveness, denial and rage.<br />The story starts now in  an American airport where John Quincy, now a retired Methodist bishop, sees  his former Japanese tormentor.  He follows, then catches up with him and  confronts him in a San Diego hotel.  There the Japaneses man claims that  John Quincy is simply mistaken.  But the bishop is certain.  You see, he  could never forget the Hyena's eyes.  <br />The story of the POW days is told  through flash backs to his captivity.  Beatings, and death are daily  events; there appear to be quotas.  Torture is the entertainment of the  captors.  Many POW's die, some at the discretion of the Japanese, some  provoking the event, and some just willing it to happen.  More unfolds as  to the permanent damage our pilot sustained as a POW.  He had forgiven his  Japanese captors year ago as part of his own healing.  And yet, when faced  with the absurd denials in that San Diego hotel room, he found all that  healing was incomplete and temporary.  <br />If I go on with the events, it  will spoil the story for the future reader.  And so, I have left out many  of the twists and turns that Lehrer adroitly put into his novel.  He does  not pander to political correctness; nor does he ignore racism... on both  sides.  <br />If you want an actual account of the Japanese brutality in WWII  consider the assault on China, and read &quot;The Rape of Nanking.&quot;   But, if you are looking for a serious novel about a unique experience, with  unresolved conflicts, I recommend that you read &quot;Special  Prisoner.&quot;	2000-07-01
US	52129420	RU450NGWZMZ7B	0375502955	197934308	A Vast Conspiracy: The Real Story of the Sex Scandal That Nearly Brought Down a President	Books	5	9	13	N	N	be careful what you wish for	This is one of the few books written about the Clintons without a political agenda.  It is a story of excesses, spins and sex.  If you are looking for a comprehensive rundown of the players, the facts put into the  correct sequence, and an objective perspective on both, then this is the  book for you.<br />The book has at least two themes... 1.  how many of the  participants have used legal system to achieve political objectives, and 2.   how the freedom of the press turned into something else, with reporters  participating in the story instead of reporting on it.  The results are  that both the political system and legal system are weakened.  <br />Toobin  profiles the players and find few heroes.  Judge Wright is the exception;  she is presented as one of the few participants without a separate agenda.   She is the voice of reason, in her comments and in her rulings in the Paula  Jones case.  Previously obscure characters, like Goldberg, and Ginsburg,  gained national attention through their access to the airwaves.  Who are  these people? and Where did they come from? and What are they doing and  why?  Toobin's book provides rational answers.  Toobin also looks at people  who worked behind the scene's; the hidden &quot;elves&quot; who worked on  the Paula Jones case for their own political purposes, and the cast of  characters in Ken Starr's office.  <br />Finally &quot;The Vase  Conspiracy&quot; looks at the surprising fallout, Newt, and Livingston are  out, but Clinton is still in office.  Does anyone else find this odd? <br />If  you want to affirm your own politics, there are lots of other books to read  on this awful episode in our history.  This is a book for someone who wants  the facts.  It is comprehensive and even handed.  I highly recommend this  book.	2000-06-24
US	52129420	R3ITM2N1RNJTBZ	0345404335	46057174	The Wars of the Roses	Books	5	85	90	N	N	Terrific writer, interesting subject - a great read	This is a wonderfully readable history, covering the finalconflict between cousins (the House of Lancaster and the House ofYork, and then the House of York and the House of Tudor) over the crown of England.  As the author states in her introduction, the full story begins in 1400 begins with a murder and ends in 1471 with another murder.  <br />Weir writes a history of people who come alive on her pages.  The characters history has given her are ambitious, incompetent, promiscuous, indolent, and lustful.  The tale history has given her is one of these characters acting outside the law, each for his/her own purposes and, in so doing it is an early story of violent &quot;politics of destruction&quot; in the literal sense.  This story changed forever the history of England.<br />I often judge how good a book is by whether I am moved to read another one by the same author, or on the same subject.  I am now reading Weir's book on Elizabeth. If you are interested in a well written history of a pivotal period in English history, I would highly recommend that you give The Wars of the Roses a try.	2000-06-18
US	52129420	R29ZY677ZT52EF	0375502807	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mount Everest Disaster (The Illustrated Edition)	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Hubris,negligence,competition,heroes - a great tragic story	It's hard to believe that this book is so interesting.  John Krakauer tells a story about a disaster waiting to happen and then it does.  The story involves a  strange mix of characters...  brillant, experienced  guides, and inexperienced climbers focused on attaining the ultimate  trophy, the summit of Mt. Everest.  <br />If not for the tradegy, it would be  comical... the mountain is overcrowded with climbers, highly paid guides,  and local sherpas.  Climbers ignore  basic rules; they ignore the  instructions of high paid guides, and too many pay the ultimate price for  their mistakes... they died on the mountain.  Their hubris, and negligence  contributed to the deaths of their heroic guides.<br />This is a story with  everyday villans, climbers who march by other dying climbers to pursue  their own quest for Everest. And, it is the story of unexpected heroes,  like the film crew for IMAX who gave away their oxogen to help weak  stranded climbers.  At the time, the IMAX crew thought that they had given  away their chance to summit Mt. Everest.<br />I cried as the lead guide from  New Zealand was dying just a few hundred feet from base camp.  Although he  was able to talk to his pregnant wife in NZ, he couldn't be rescued.  I  can't remember when I last cried real tears when reading a book.<br />This may  not be a classic, but it is a great read!	2000-06-06
US	52129420	R38844P8XVLUQP	1883011639	452836381	Henry James: Complete Stories 1874-1884 (Library of America)	Books	5	33	37	N	N	19 mini-masterpieces	The Library of America has published 5 volumes of Henry Jame stories, covering 1864 - 1910, and I'm hooked.  Henry James has to be read slowly; every word he writes seems to matter to the story.  He is a master craftman  of the English language, and can say so much without being explicit.      <br />James wrote most of these 19 short stories while living in London and  visiting the continent.  This volume of his stories starts with  &quot;Professor Fargo&quot; and ends with &quot;The Author of  'Beltraffio'&quot;.  But, perhaps the most famous of the stories included  here is &quot;Daisy Miller:  A Study.&quot;  Few, if any, of these stories  will disappoint a 20th century reader. <br />Unlike some fortunate reviewers,  who have had careers as librarians or who have degrees in English  Literatue, I started reading authors like Henry James on my own.  I  approach a author just for the pleasure of reading his/her work.  I started  reading Henry James with these short stories and have graduated to his  novels.  At first his writing seemed slow and stiff.  But, once I settled  into the cadence of his writing, I concluded that this suited the formality  of the upper classes he wrote about.  Now, I can't seem to put down one of  his stories until the end.<br />James wrote so much during his life that it  seems impossible to read all that he wrote, but I think I'll try.	2000-05-28
US	52129420	RU8MSM6BO13X9	0670861944	404785712	Math Curse	Books	5	92	93	N	N	To Be Read Again and Again	I bought this book for my daugther when she was in kindergarten.  &quot;Again Mommy.&quot; she demanded after I had read it to her.  And so, I read it again. &quot;Again Mommy.&quot; And so, I read it to her again.  &quot;Again Mommy.&quot; and so... I have long since lost track of how many  times we read the book.<br />It starts with Mrs. Fibonnaci telling her class  that &quot;YOU KNOW,you can think of almost everything as a math  problem.&quot;  And we're off on adventure of doing just that.<br />The  illustrations are wonderful, and match the text perfectly.  The book is  silly for young children and funny for older children.  It is obvious and  subtle at the same time.  I think this is why some reviewers think that it  miscategorized as being for ages 4 to 8.  There is so much in the book    that kids see it differently at different ages.  My daugther is now in 4th  grade and she still takes this book off the shelf to read... just for fun.   Recently she had a math assignment to show a series of numbers.  She chose  a Fibonnaci series.  This book stays with you.<br />The book ends with Mr.  Newton telling his class &quot;YOU KNOW, you can think of almost everything  as a science experiment.&quot;  Note to the author:  I'm waiting for you to  write the &quot;Science Curse.&quot;	2000-05-27
US	52129420	R2Q7LU0WFMS3FM	0375503447	375005417	Hillary's Choice	Books	4	33	37	N	N	A balanced rendition of Hillary - she's not perfect	This is neither a flattering puff piece, nor a political attack.  It is a balanced view of the first, first lady who acknowledges and pursues her own political ambitions.<br />The author presents Hillary as intellectually  brilliant, but emotionally flawed.   She explains a great deal about  Hillary's and then Bill's early years and leads logically to where the  first couple finds itself today.<br />Occasionally, Ms. Sheehy can't resist  sniping.  But, on all critically important issues, this writer remains  objective.  She explains Mrs. Clinton's famous &quot;right wing  conspiracy&quot; appearance on the Today Show neither as a wife deceived,  nor as a political combatant.  Sheehy presents it as a wife hoping  desperately that this time her defense is merited.  <br />Hillary approaches  her life and relationships through her head, not her heart.  While Hillary  has been heavily critisized for this, Sheehey deftly explains how this was  inevitable given her background.  But, she is not one dimentional.  Sheehy  tells a story of when Hillary was considering graduate school, she was  looking first at Harvard and then at Yale as Harvard's competition.   Someone from Harvard responded by saying that Harvard had no competition.   Hillary chose Yale.<br />If you want a book the glorifies or demonizes  Hillary, then look elsewhere.  But, if you are interested in a book that  helps explain this complicated and flawed woman, then Ms. Sheehy's book  &quot;Hillary's Choice&quot; may well be what you are looking for.<br />p.s.  It's good plane/beach reading.	2000-05-18
US	52129420	R2RRJ3QSF1GQ08	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	5	15	22	N	N	Great read  - for futurist and/or feminist	This is a scary book about the aftermath of an extreme right wing violent takeover of the USA.  In the future, women are at first denied the access to their money, bank accounts and credit cards. Their resources are then  turned over to and handled by their husbands and fathers.  Then it gets  worse.  They are denied independence, education, and any sense of self  worth.  They are to be controlled. <br />Meanwhile, environmental problems  have destroyed the fertility of much of the population. And, so the  &quot;new powers that be&quot; have a solution.  They take women that are  believed to be fertile and assign them as handmaiden's to high ranking  family's in the new order.  Their value is solely for procreation.<br />The  heroine and her family want out and try to escape by crossing the border to  Canada.  The attempt fails and she looses everything of importance  including her child.. who is taken and given to another family.<br />The story  unfolds with Offred, the heroine, being trained and then assigned to a high  ranking family as the handmaiden.  Here the new family traditions combine  20th century technology and old testiment biblical customs.  <br />Her longing  for her child and husband and her old life never abate, even when she finds  a way to resist throught an undeground anti-government  resistence.   <br />While this is obviously fiction, it is easy to find current real life  parallel.  I'm not sure that the author was thinking of fundamentalist  Muslins when she wrote this, but she could have been.	2000-05-15
US	52129420	R3AOZ1G51TC5QF	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Too brutal to read straight through	This is a staggering piece of non fiction. Like the Rape of Nanking, I had to keep putting it down. It is simply too brutal to read straight through. Too little of the criminal side of history is taught, and too little is understood. <br />King Leopold is the secret Hitler of Africa. He was able to find willing accomplices, and obfuscate the truth through a naive cooperative press, and greedy lieutenants. We are living with the awful legacy of his easy terror. <br />Leopold was obsessed with obtaining a colony for little Belgiam. When he couldn't buy one,or marry his heirs into one, he created one on lies, intrigue, and terror. This is a tale of a horrid human being,who enslaved the people of the Congo as 19th century Europe, and No. America were seeing that pecular institution disappear.<br />This tale of three continents, is littered with prominent 19th century personalities... Stanley (of Stanley and Livingston) and Joseph Conrad. A few voices of truth, Twain and Sir Conan Doyle, existed, and attempted do good. But the fact that we know so little about this part of African and European and American history, indicate the victor in the war of propaganda.<br />Read this and weep.	2000-05-08
US	52129420	RP8GWCKMRTWGO	0374350833	837189304	The Mouse of Amherst	Books	5	26	28	N	Y	Wonderful	My daugther and I still read together, even though she is an independent reader.  I started to read this book to her.  After I had read the first paragraph to her, she stopped me and insisted that she would read this one  to me. What a wonderful book.<br />Emmaline, a mouse,lives in the wall of  Emily Dickison's room. You see Emily through the eyes of her uninvited  house guest.  Poems by both are sprinkled thoughtout. <br />This is a book to  be read and reread.	2000-01-22
US	52129420	R19AKTDQOIF8KV	0689819609	291559211	Very Last First Time (Aladdin Picture Books)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Wonderful - a genuine adventure for young girls.	This is one of the best books for young girls that I have come across.  A young Inuit girl is sent under the ice at low tide to collect muscles for the family.. this time by herself.  She gets distracted, the candles burn  out leaving her in darkness just as she starts to hear the water returning.   What an adventure.  I buy this book as a gift whenever I need a present  for a beginner reader girl.	1999-07-25
US	52129420	R15ZCBYMYSOERB	0679752927	353885091	My Own Country: A Doctor's Story	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Story of an immigrant dr. and AID's is  fascinating .	This is not the typical emotionally manipulative book about a young doctor as the AID's hero.  Dr. Verghese writes a sincere account of a young immigrant facing challenges to become a licensed doctor in the US.  His  candor about his family, abount how he chose infectious diseases as his  specialty and about the earliest days of AID's made me feel as though I  personally knew him and his patients.  With so many books to read, this one  is worth the time.	1999-01-24
