US	52139358	R3DWKGFU4F7YLK	1400082315	857468785	Why Do Men Have Nipples? Hundreds of Questions You'd Only Ask a Doctor After Your Third Martini	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Who Will Remember This Stuff???	At first glance, WDMHN is a serious, helpful work: It explores such questions as \\"Will Carrots Help My Vision\\"? \\"Will Coffee Stunt My Growth\\"?, \\"Does Ice Cream Cause Headaches\\"?, and \\"Should I Put Steak On a Black Eye\\"? All are worthwhile issues, to be sure. WDMHN is chock full of them. Most are intelligently and often humorously presented. But one has to wonder how many readers will RETAIN any of this information. Certainly it's desirable to know how to view a solar eclipse but frankly this reviewer-and many readers- probably will forget and have to be reminded anew.  DMHN is indeed much ado about very little. To end a review on a positive note, Christmas is approaching, faster than many of us would like. WDMHN has promise as a stocking stuffer for that \\"hard to please\\" relative.  It will make interesting reading while others open their presents. And those with hangovers may remember to imbibe beer BEFORE wine next year!  Or is it wine before beer...	2005-10-14
US	52139358	R37UOTYZ50US1E	0743410130	265273524	Heart Full of Lies: A True Story of Desire and Death	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	It's Not Her Best: It's Still Her!	It was very informative to scroll through the previous reviews to \\"Heart Full of Lies\\".  Many in the amazon community agree with this reviewer: HFL is simply not on a par with AR's best work.  In fact, the above rating is the lowest this reader has ever rendered an AR release.  The story line is basic enough: Husband and wife go camping, hubby winds up in the morgue, wife claims self-defense.  The cops are not so sure. The Law sorts out the facts and a judge and jury decide whom to believe.  Presented well, plots like those can produce seriously good true crime tales.  In this instance, the telling does not coalesce.   One reason could be that HFL is too long.  A very early reviewer opined that the authoress' editor failed her.  That point is well taken.  An editor with a sharp blue pencil should have considerably abbreviated HFL.  Perhaps no publisher performs true editing anymore or maybe Miss Rule intimidates them. Regardless, that problem was not solved. Another weak point is that Chris and Liysa Northon must be the most uncompelling, least likeable couple in True Crime history! Liysa and Chris were two huge duds, in this reader's opinion. It was very hard to generate any compassion, passion or sympathy for them or their families.  I believe AR chose a very strange set of subjects to write about. (NO personal disrespect toward the Northons is intended here!)  The best compliment that one can bestow on HFL is that \\"It's Still Her!\\" Yes, Ann Rule is indeed still the writer of record. For some that is reason enough to click on \\"add to cart'. Others are forewarned! Possible disappointment awaits! Two closing notes: 1) The reviews feature some \\"dueling family members\\". Is this an amazon first? 2) This reviewer has frequently referred to the \\"Ann Rule Rule\\", warning readers about centerfold pictures, or rear covers, that give away resolutions. That concern is groundless for HFL.  The section serves its' intended purpose of personalizing good guys, bad guys and innocent bystanders alike.	2005-09-23
US	52139358	RUELDCPLK7ZZ5	1586420895	566656292	"I Heard You Paint Houses": Frank "The Irishman" Sheeran and the Inside Story of the Mafia, the Teamsters, and the Last Ride of Jimmy Hoffa	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	WHICH "End Zone"?	\\"I Heard You Paint Houses\\" is a solid true crime biography of Frank \\"The Irishman\\" Sheeran. Plenty of fascinating mob history and lore is included.  Sheeran was a hood who rose to prominence in Philadelphia, working under capo Russell Bufalino.  Sheeran caught the eye of Teamster Boss Jimmy Hoffa and did over 25 hits for his two bosses.  Author Charles Brandt does an excellent job of catching the almost casual mayhem in the life of a hardcore criminal.  And if one term describes Sheeran, it is certainly \\"hardcore criminal\\".  The text darts back between Brandt's historical relating of the investigations of the Teamsters in the Eisenhower Administration, by Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy in the JFK Administration and the Irishman's other \\"activities\\".  The reader will learn of Sheeran's incredible 400+ days on the line in WW2.  IHYPH makes it crystal clear that the mob was vehemently upset with Cuban Premier Fidel Castro for closing down their operations in Havana.  The Bosses were likewise bristling at President Kennedy for what can only be termed ingratitude after \\"arranging\\" his critical Illinois victory in the 1960 Presidential election. (The returns from Chicago were somewhat \\"tainted\\".) Their payback was investigations and pressure from the President's little brother. The text hints very strongly that the mob arranged JFKs assassination and that Sheeran may have helped deliver the murder weapons. The plural-\\"weapons\\"- might indicate more than one shooter was in Dallas on the fateful day. NO mention is made of any CIA role in that event. There is more! Sheeran states outrightly that he delivered cash to former Attorney General John Mitchell.  He also claims to be one of the hitmen in the infamous 1972 rubout of Crazy Joey Gallo at Umberto's Clam House in New York City. That was an enormous local event! This reviewer is one of thousands of nosy New Yorkers who dined at Umbertos just to gaze at the spot were Gallo met his demise. (It was a serious restaurant with good food).  The reader is also given lessons in crime: We are advised to always carry a new weapon in case stopped and frisked by the law. If the pistol has never been fired what can they charge you with? Sheeran also intimates that friends usually do mob hits. The trusting target will let his buddy get close, lure him to an isolated spot or let down his guard. Chicago Boss Sam Giancana was rubbed out in his own kitchen while frying sausages and peppers! Another trueism is that a hood never declines a murder contract.  If he does, he will soon be \\"taking a trip to Austrailia\\". There is indeed the matter of Jimmy Hoffa's demise. Sheeran takes credit for that hit as well, claiming that he helped guide Jimmy-Giancana style-to a lonely rented house in suburban Detroit. The Irishman makes the very valid point that it made no sense to transport a corpse to an \\"end zone\\" in East Rutherford, New Jersey-halfway across the country.  A friendly local undertaker disposed of Jimmy. Sheeran's version of events makes infinitely more sense than the convoluted scene in the movie \\"Hoffa\\", notwithstanding strong performances by Jack Nicholson and Danny de Vito. The only element in question concerning IHYPH is credibility. Is this guy telling the complete truth or has author Brandt been conned by a con man? This reviewer believes that Sheeran is on the level.  The author obviously does as well. In case Sheeran is fudging slightly, a reduction in rank from 5 stars to 4 seems appropriate. IHYPH is fun reading and highly recommended to true crime aficionados.	2005-09-21
US	52139358	R34NDZYPLS5P0N	0071412719	273106721	The Seventh Game : The 35 World Series That Have Gone the Distance	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Touches All the Bases	\\"The Seventh Game\\" is a virtual encyclopedia of the World Series from 1909-2002. It covers all 35 of the Fall Classics that lasted the full 7 games-accompanied by historical anecdotes from each year. Everything is here: TSG begins with what may be the strongest introduction to any book this reviewer has read: Its' writer is none other than former Yankee pitcher Ralph Terry, the losing 7th game pitcher in the '60 WS and the winning hurler in '62. There is a wonderful 50-question quiz on 7th game trivia. 2 samples: 1) Who are the only brothers to hit home runs for opposite teams in a 7th game and 2) Who is the only pitcher to hurl a 7th game shutout, yet have a losing career record? The answers appear at the end of this review. There follows a detailed report on the featured 35 series. This observer believes that author Levenson may have missed a few facts but given the volume covered, some mistakes are inevitable.  This reviewer can't resist poking some fun at the author; more detail below! There is also a ranking of the 35 series- wait till readers discover #1. Levenson also provides a computer resimulation of all 35 series-with the Mets WINNING in 1973! ( \\"You Gotta Believe!\\", as the late Tug McGraw said). There is lots of analysis by pitching, by defense and by offense. Any reader retaining a third of the material contained in TSG will be a certified expert! It is indeed all here! This piece stated above that mistakes are inevitable given the scope of TSG.  With that in mind, this reviewer points no fingers. But in the open-minded spirit of those computer resimulations, here are some simulated questions/comments for the author over a simulated friendly beer or three: 1) 1909: It's not baseball but are you sure the song \\"Casey Jones\\" was recorded in the year of his death? Jones was an engineer on the Illinois Central RR.  The nighttime wreck of his train in Vaughan, MS, for which he was NOT to blame, may be the most famous in history. (The stalled train in front ofCasey had not set out the required warning flares). Was the upbeat tune actually recorded so quickly. 2) 1947: Why didn't you mention Al Gionfriddo's catch off Joe DiMaggio, one of the most notable in WS lore? 3) 1955: The Yankees Tommy Byrne (\\"That Good Hittin' Pitcher\\") was a lefty. 4) 1955 again: The Yankees got Don Larsen and Bob Turley in an epic 18 player trade with Baltimore after the '54 season. Casey always liked Larsen and Turley was a highly regarded young righthander. They did not get him from the \\"bargain table\\". 5) 1957: I was at that game as a little kid.  If you were as well, we saw 2 different games: My version has Tommy Byrne coming up as a pinch hitter in the bottom of the 9th.  Are you certain Casey had the good hittin' pitcher in the game as his final hurler? 6) 1957 again: I remember the final play quite differently. Eddie Mathews was guarding the third base line, as he should have in the bottom of the ninth. Pinch hitter Bill Skowron hit a hot smash, which Eddie backhanded and stepped on third base to end the game. I did not see him dive! If he had not been such a \\"good hit, no field\\" player, the play would have gone unnoticed! Which of us is right? I'm happy that we agree that Casey never should have started rookie (!) Tony Kubek at third base. he probably cost the Yankees the Series. 7) Finally, 1973: This Series meant a lot, since the Army intervened to keep me away from the 1969 \\"Miracle\\". '73 was making up for '69.  My recruiter and I agreed that the Cubs would win the 1969 flag! I was at Fort Dix, NJ just in time for the Series. I was an avid Mets fan! Are you sure the Mets did not win Game 6/'73 behind Jerry Koosman? And regarding Game 7, are you certain the Mets did not start Tom Seaver on 2 days rest, just like Jim Lonborg in 1967? I loved the '73 Mets. Few teams have gone so far with so little talent. Amazoners should take the foregoing nit picking with a grain of salt! Which sports fan could resist a little finger pointing? I'll pay for the beers either way. The answers to the 2 trivia? listed above are: 1) 1964: Kenny Boyer of the Cardinals and Clete Boyer of the Yankees.  Both were 3rd basemen. 2) 1956: Johnny Kucks of the Yankees who pitched a 3 hit 9-0 shutout of the Dodgers.  The pride of Jersey City, NJ never regained control of his sinkerball and faded from the majors by 1960. (He remained a dominant minor league hurler for a few more years). The bottom line is TSG is a treasure trove of good solid baseball that belongs front and center on any fan's bookshelf.  It spans the ages. This reviewer admits that the foregoing has been somewhat self-indulgent. Thanks to my amazon friends for reading through it all! I hope Mr. Levenson realizes my \\"questions\\" were posed in fun, one baseball fan to another.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-18
US	52139358	R33USSX6KBYPS2	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	3	7	10	N	N	A Minority Opinion!	Forewarned is forearmed: Readers will be happier with \\"1776\\" if they realize the inherent limitations. The focus is on a narrow portion of the Revolutionary War- from late 1775 to early 1777.  The main concern is three pronged: 1) The withdrawals of the British and American forces from Boston to New York. 2) The campaign around New York City, which went badly for the Continental Army.  Had the British Commander, General Howe, been more aggressive the War might have ended then and there. 3) The Continental Army's retreat across New Jersey to the Delaware River.  With victories at Trenton and Morristown, there was finally cause for optimism on the American side. That is \\"1776\\" in a nutshell. Throughout, the focus is almost entirely on the Commander in Chief, George Washington. Credit previous reviewer Skousen with that observation. That focus isn't always positive. GW had command problems.  His army was undisciplined and he didn't know which of his generals he could rely on. One managed to get himself captured sitting in a tavern! \\"1776\\" ends rather abruptly with a very brief synopsis of the remainder of the War.  Certainly more space could have been devoted to that critical period of history! There is another flaw to \\"1776', which this reviewer believes, is fatal: The total absence of MAPS! After paying hardcover prices, one should not have to follow the action with a Rand Mc Nally Atlas. This lifelong New York City native could not even trace the actions in this area! This deficiency is all too common in military tales. \\"1776\\" sets no negative precedents here, but the defect remains inexcusable! Why do publishers and authors permit the exclusion of MAPS? In the end, \\"1776\\" disappoints. Reviewer Quinn wrote that the author raised the bar with his superior works \\"Truman\\" and \\"Path Between the Seas\\". \\"1776\\" does not rise to the levels of those virtual classics. Amazoners are encouraged to try an alternate selection on the same subject: \\"Voices of 1776\\" by Richard Wheeler. It covers the Revolutionary War in its' entirety and in a very imaginative format. This reviewer would concede that the appearance of \\"1776\\" in paperback would warrant a 4th star, warning labels still attached.	2005-08-10
US	52139358	RJAFA0Q9F4VSQ	1574885588	864611679	Chained Eagle: The Heroic Story of the First American Shot Down over North Vietnam	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Vivid and Well Written Story from a True Survivor	\\"Chained Eagle\\" is the story of Lieutenant (j.g.) Everett Alvarez.  He was a pilot from the U.S.S. \\"Constellation\\", shot down over Hon Gai, North Vietnam on August 5, 1964.  In fact, Alvarez was downed during the very first bombing sortie of the Indochina War. He remained imprisoned until the general release of all POWs in the Spring of 1973. This reviewer remembers President Johnson announcing the missions at the still bizarre time of 11 p.m. Eastern Time, interrupting a Mets game.  (It was never completely clear if LBJ's broadcast came before the actual raids.  Doing so would have given the North a free advance warning).  The very strongest aspect of CE is how strongly it is written.  The portrayals of prison life are more vivid than any other POW accounts this reviewer has read.  There is a sharp focus on the food. It was painful to read of how POWs competed with the rats and ants for the slop left outside their cells.  By the time permission to actually eat was given, \\"others\\" had sampled the stuff!  One can only imagine how hungry these guys must have been and desperate for any semblance of decent chow! Alvarez' conditions were tolerable initially but quickly deteriorated as more pilots were downed and subsequently captured.  Conditions improved later in the War as America -belatedly! -began to demand better treatment of the prisoners.  The Son Tay raid of 1970 also was directly responsible for better conditions because it led North Vietnam to consolidate most Americans into the larger Hanoi area prisons. There was definite safety in numbers, along with a supportive command structure.  Another strong aspect of CE is the interspersed reports of how the Alvarez family was faring at home! One deduces a strong effort from co-author Pitch here, since Alvarez was imprisoned 15, 000 miles away. It was not all sweetness and light back in California.  CE reminds the reader sharply that the families on the home front suffered too.  It is true that Alvarez' wife deserted him while he was imprisoned and that his sister was a serious demonstrator against the War. However the author very quickly pulled his life together again once repatriated, rising above those sharp adversities. This reviewer was surprised to read of two collaborators, both officers, one a Marine LTC! Also, by the end of 1972, many of the newly shot down pilots had turned lukewarm regarding the War.  Some rooted for Senator George McGovern (D-SD) in the '72 Presidential Election! The bottom line for CE is that it is one more entry in that solid lineup of POW/MIA accounts.  America should always remember the struggles these men endured.  We should also acknowledge the 1800+ still unaccounted for in the 4 Indochina countries, plus 6 men in China.  Those of us Vets who came back to the World intact should count our blessings daily.him while he was imprisoned and that his sister was a serious demonstrator against the War. However the author very quickly pulled his life together again once repatriated, rising above those sharp adversities. This reviewer was surprised to read of two collaborators, both officers, one a Marine LTC! Also, by the end of 1972, many of the newly shot down pilots had turned lukewarm regarding the War.  Some rooted for Senator George McGovern (D-SD) in the '72 Presidential Election! The bottom line for CE is that it is one more entry in that solid lineup of POW/MIA accounts.  America should always remember the struggles these men endured.  We should also acknowledge the 1800+ still unaccounted for in the 4 Indochina countries, plus 6 men in China.  Those of us Vets who came back to the World intact should count our blessings daily.	2005-07-17
US	52139358	R2ZER22Y8J1JV4	0060567643	243854161	She Wanted It All: A True Story of Sex, Murder, and a Texas Millionaire (Avon True Crime)	Books	5	36	38	N	Y	Casey Does It Again!	\\"She Wanted It All\\" represents another success for Kathryn Casey.  Once again, the authoress sets the scene in Texas- this time in the city of Austin.  The protagonist in SWA is Celeste Beard.  She is best described as a career hedonist -and overt gold digger.  Celeste can stand with the worst of the villains so well known to true crime fans.  She has her wealthy husband murdered; the better to enjoy his fortune without having to stay married to the guy. The quirk to SWA is that Beard uses a lesbian lover named Tracey Tarlton to do the deed.  There is little suspense in SWA, since the killing occurs just inside the front cover-before the standard acknowledgements and prologue!  SWA then unfolds in classic flashback fashion as the readers wait for the wheels of justice to turn. One could carp that SWA is a tad lengthy and that an editor with a sharp blue pencil could have reduced it. That point is minor because Casey tries hard to fully portray the major characters.  (There are a few of them!) It is also hardly Casey's fault that the Austin authorities took so long to charge Tracey and Celeste.  Is justice done? This reviewer tries not to reveal endings. My amazon friends will have to read SWA for themselves but true crime aficionados will not be disappointed. Those curious about the \\"Ann Rule rule\\" need not worry. The centerfold photos actually perform their function of humanizing the major actors without revealing the ending. The back cover teases but likewise divulges little of importance. Well done! This reviewer could visualize a screen version of SWA in a latter day film noir milieu. In her prime, Barbara Stanwyck have been a perfect Celeste. William Bendix could have been the husband. What a pair! Meanwhile, we have the book to keep us company.  A closing thought: Amazoners are encouraged to read Casey's first work, \\"The Rapist's Wife\\".  Finding RW is a major challenge but to do so will be worth the effort. Now that authoress Casey has 3 works to her credit, true crime lovers can eagerly await a fourth.  <br />	2005-06-30
US	52139358	RHWHXZQVGVJRG	0312962207	622529870	Deadly Goals: The True Story of an All-American Football Hero Who Stalked and Murdered	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good flashback true crime. Neo-noir?	\\"Deadly Goals\\" is the story of one Pernell Jefferson, a former Small College (N.A.I.A.) All-American football star.  He was convicted of the abduction and murder of his girl friend by a Virginia court.  His abuse of the victim, Jeannie, and other females was acerbated by the heavy use of steroids to enhance his football prowess. DG is fast, linear, no-nonsense reading. There is a total absence of mystery here.  DG is told in classic flashback style. The reader knows the ending from the outset. We only have to read to learn how the wheels of justice turned.  BG even includes a note from Mr. Jefferson, penned from the Virginia State big house. A strong point of DG is that all the very real life characters come across as genuine people, warts and all.  A disturbing aspect is that not all police departments prosecute abuse toward women equally aggressively. Jefferson's violent proclivities happened in different locales and the Miami and Chesapeake, VA cops were lethargic in pursuing him or responding to his victims' allegations.  Jeannie's' abduction, murder and dumping of her body happened in a smaller Virginia town, which would not tolerate such crimes.  This reviewer can picture DG as a classic 1940-50s-film noir, with the purp telling his tale from behind bars. He can see Lizabeth Scott or Veronica Lake as the unfortunate victim and perhaps Pat O'Brien and Brian Dunlevy as the detective and prosecutor who bring Pernell down. DG has definite big screen potential, with or without the noir. Any reader must wonder what Pernell's life might have been like had he NOT walked out of the Cleveland Brown's summer camp. (Some observers felt he would have made the squad as a rookie). There was also the controversial introduction of a taped phone conversation with Jeannie as crucial prosecutional evidence at his trial. Making the team might have kept Jefferson out of trouble; exclusion of the tape might have exonerated him, albeit free to abuse other women. BG is recommended as a good no-nonsense straightforward true crime tale. A star is deducted for the lack of any true suspense.	2005-06-07
US	52139358	R1KYGIUDD5PGU5	0935810544	291806212	The Guts to Try	Books	5	3	4	N	N	On the Spot!	\\"The Guts to Try\\" is a first hand, first person account of the heroic raid to rescue the 50+ Americans who were held hostage after Iran seized the U.S. embassy in Teheran in November, 1979.  The author was the American air Commander of the unsuccessful mission of April, 1980.  The hostages were not repatriated until the winter of 1982. This reviewer remembers the seizure as the most embarrassing episode for the U.S. in his lifetime. GT is deep in detail, full of military terminology and acronyms but is written in clear and concise prose, with a helpful glossary.  A military background is not essential to following the action.  A key aspect of the raid was its' sheer and utter complexity.  To merely write that it was intricate does not tell the story.  All 4 branches of the military were involved: The mission itself was launched from bases in Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Oman and an Aircraft carrier in the Indian Ocean.  Units were marshaled from worldwide commands.  Intense training was also held at widely scattered locations, always in secret so as not to divulge the nature of the rescue.  It was stated above that GT is clear and concise.  Indeed the actual text is all of that.  Yet the reader may still become confused by the sheer scope of the mission.  The most challenging point, for this reader, was the communication equipment. That was technical and hard to grasp! But since the author was a pilot, the intense air operation is relatively easy to follow. This reviewer was impressed by the professionalism of the aerial refueling crews. Those guys were good! Most Americans are well aware by now that this mission was not successful, though many may not know why. Many media reports were pointedly inaccurate or incomplete.  Some blamed the failure on missing sand screens for the choppers; the author never mentions this. A key element of GT is an excellent epilogue, which examines the mission component by component.  The rescue was aborted inside Iranian territory but before proceeding to Teheran. Good hard reasons for failure are given, blame is laid where appropriate and no excuses are offered.  Bad luck or Murphy's Law is not offered as culprits. The author plainly believes that the rescue could have proceeded and should have succeeded. This reviewer was sad to read of a powerful U.S. military with wonderful equipment, highly trained and dedicated professionals- many of them hardened combat vets, a striking worldwide capability with fixed and mobile bases everywhere all led by strong and determined commanders. Yet the mission still failed! The unsuccessful raid is no reflection on men like the author who tried to do the right thing at the right time only to be stymied by events they could not directly control.  GT is highly recommended for military history devotees as well as straight history fans that desire more knowledge of a key event of the early 1980s.  This reviewer's private opinion is that as well as a tremendous black eye for the U.S.; the embassy capture and failed raid finished Jimmy Cater as President and ushered in the Reagan era.  Author Kyle is a man of great courage. As an author, he has performed a fine job of relating an exciting, exacting and complex military operation to his fellow Americans.	2005-06-01
US	52139358	R3AMQOTYMRC4MF	1562290037	486471654	My Time At Bat	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Nice, pleasant Summertime Reading	\\"My Time at Bat\\" is the biography of Chuck Hinton, who played in the American League from 1961-1971.  Most people identify Chuck as a former Washington Senator, though he also played for the Indians. It is no poor reflection on Hinton that MLBB was just then starting its' decline from the \\"Golden Era\\" of 1946-1960. Expansion had begun the inevitable dissolution of the talent pool. However many fine players from the 40s and 50s were still in uniform during Chuck's career. MTB is a leisurely account of Hinton's days in the minors, majors and the US Army. MTB is filled with helpful on the field and off the field tips to survival. One point is crystal clear: The pressure is intense-players must bear down, not get distracted.  Few mistakes are tolerated on the Major League level. There are some minor detractions: The photos are not of a high quality and a tad too much time is devoted to Hinton family matters. These matters are common to many sports' tales. Perhaps players wish to impart the point that they are people too. Mr. Hinton struck this reviewer as a highly principled guy and a real family man. After his ML days, Chuck was the baseball coach at Howard University. His players must have had high graduation rates! This offering will not reach the piinacle of great sports literature.  However, MTB is a nice pleasant leisurely read, just right, as it says above, for the Summertime.	2005-05-21
US	52139358	R1QO4FY8N88FWI	042519650X	201134613	A Beautiful Child	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	A Maelstrom of Depravity!	<br /> <br /> <br /> <br />\\"A Beautiful Child\\" is difficult to review.  There are several twists and turns in the plot, perhaps at least one too many.  It might not be clear at the outset, but BC is about abducted children. Readers will be pained to learn that for many years in this country, many law enforcement jurisdictions were disinterested in such cases.  Sadly, the main character here is a sicko/pervert named Franklin Floyd.  He kidnaps a young girl who becomes known as Sharon Marshall.  He also kidnaps/abducts a boy later known as Michael Hughes. Fake names -taken from tombstones- abound in BC, which occasionally makes the plot even harder to follow. BC begins with \\"Sharon's\\" death and virtually descends into a maelstrom of depravity. Franklin \\"raises Sharon and Michael as his children\\". Readers may safely assume that the quote marks are indeed sarcastic. Franklin is no father but a hideous creature who totally mistreats his \\"children\\" for his own selfish purposes. Warning flags go unheeded. By the time the Law gets involved, the damage has been done. Sharon is a highly intelligent young woman but her dreams of a better life are shattered. As for young Michael, the poor kid never had a chance.  A good review should not divulge a story's resolution.  Many readers might agree that BC, through no fault of the author, does not have one. Not all true crime tales do. The depraved Floyd certainly fails to reveal \\"certain facts\\" to prosecutors\\". Author Birkbeck may have let BC get away from him, but the intense story saves the book. It certainly appears that Birkbeck relishes challenges: His other credit is \\"A Deadly Secret\\", about the horrible Kathie Durst murder. Strangely, DS also has no clear-cut ending. Readers may ignore the \\"Ann Rule Rule\\" and peruse the centerfold photos. They reveal little but succeed in humanizing the victims, including an unfortunate young lady named Cheryl Ann Commesso who got in Floyd's way. On straight merit, BC may only deserve a 3 star rating. Yet the author deserves credit for tackling a difficult story and shedding light on the plight of abducted children in this country. That plus its' forthcoming paperback availability merit a 4th star. Hopefully, sequels or reprintings will tie up the frustrating loose ends contained in both \\"A Deadly Secret\\" and \\"A Beautiful Child\\".  <br />	2005-04-26
US	52139358	R3S03OZHEC0LCH	0915611902	223828756	Just Call Me Minnie: My Six Decades in Baseball	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Good Hot Stove League Stuff-American League.	The title certainly tells it.  \\"Just Call Me Minnie\\" is the biography of Orestes \\"Minnie\\" Minoso. He was a major league outfielder, mostly in the American League, from 1949-1964 and one of the most exciting players of his generation. This reviewer is old enough to remember that when Minnie came to bat, fans sat up in their seats.  He made things happen! JCMM is an enjoyable story. It follows Minnie's baseball life from his early years in Cuba through his Major League years, to the ups and downs of his later years. The golden years are those with the exciting \\"Go-Go\\" White Sox from 1949- 1957. It helps that the story's time frame encompasses what is arguably the big leagues golden years.  Those would be 1946-1960. WW2 was over, pro football was still relatively undiscovered and expansion had yet to dilute the talent base. JCMM is the American League counterpart to Robin Robert's recent-and recommended- \\"My Life in Baseball\\".  The core of JCMM is solid Hot Stove League.  Minnie is a fine storyteller.  The tone is positive.  He does not attempt to settle old scores or tell tales out of the locker room. There are  obvious hard feelings toward a former manager, Al Lopez, but the reader is left to imagine the complete story behind them. There are a few nice, if self-serving, tributes from the likes of Ray Boone, Lou Boudreau, Bob Feller, Jim Landis, Ferris Fain, Cal McLish and Jim Landis. Those baseball fans in the amazon community who can remember those guys will enjoy JCMM. There are some weak points: Minnie's later years are less than compelling and a bit too many pages are devoted to Minoso family travails. Left mostly unexplained are Minnie's various comebacks. For the record, he is the oldest player to appear in a major league game. Finally, and to the distress of this reviewer, there is no statistical composite of the Minoso career. Since baseball is so numbers-obsessed, this omission is strange indeed.  Despite these objections, JCMM is a safe choice for hardcorefans of baseball's \\"golden era\\".  Both White Sox fans and Chicagoland natives should take a close look at this offering.	2005-04-17
US	52139358	R7JMPLPXFACU1	0452283167	480228192	Glory Denied: The Saga of Jim Thompson, America's Longest-Held Prisoner of War	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	The Families Suffer Too	<br /> <br />\\"Glory Denied\\" is the tale of Green Beret Captain Jim Thompson.  It is unique in that GD does not unfold in linear, year by year fashion.  GD is reconstructed entirely by interviews with Thompson and his friends / families. Captain Thompson became a POW in March of 1964 when his observation plane was downed near Khe Sanh in the remote northwest corner of South Vietnam.  As GD's cover aptly notes, Captain Thompson was a prisoner of the Viet Cong while many Americans had barely heard of either the VC or the country itself. Thompson suffered mightily in the squalid and remote jungle camps before his 1968 transfer to the better known prisons that surrounded Hanoi.  There, in places like the Rockpile, Thompson lingered until the general prisoner release in the Spring of 1973. He and Navy Lt. (j.g.) Everett Alvarez were the longest detained POWs.  There is an aura of competition between the 2 throughout GD. The poignant story of prison life is sharply detailed in GD, but many other books have done likewise.  The \\"in country\\" tale is the lesser portion of GD. What sets Thompson's story apart is the recounting of his life after his repatriation. He came home to an America VASTLY different than the buttoned up, pre Beatles nation he had left in 1963.  (This reviewer thought things had changed after only one year in country!). We should all dwell on how much happened in those crazy years and imagine the reaction of a conservative guy who wanted only to return to the hearth and home he knew. His wife had, to put it mildly, been \\"stepping out\\" during his absence. The marriage might never have been ideal but any POW must have remembered and fanaticized about only the good parts of his relationship. The remainder of GD deals with Thompson's repeated attempts to achieve normalcy in his personal life while he rebuilds his Army career.  The former is an abject failure, though it certainly qualifies as interesting, if tragic reading. As to the latter, this reviewer wasimpressed how the Army stood by Thompson, promoting him all the way to Lt. Colonel and helping him with his alcohol abuse. Granted, he was a special case but the DA cut him a lot of slack. It was painfully obvious the Army didn't know what to do with the guy. One wonders how many returned prisoners actually reconstructed their careers -and how many were dumped by the wayside. More poignantly, one wonders how many POW families got back together. How many wives remained faithful? How many guys remarried? How many families fell apart? I hope I was mistaken when I read of the behind closed doors \\"beatings at family reception centers\\". Rating GD is a hard call.  It is not a straight POW tale in the \\"Why Didn't You Get Me Out\\" or \\"When Hell Was In Session\\" tradition. The second part of GD would qualify as soap opera if not so depressing. The resolution is purposely not revealed here. Out of respect for Colonel Thompson (his retirement rank), all the other POWs and their collective suffering and service to their country, GD is given 4 stars. Credit author Philpott with a unique story compilation- one that was 16 years (!) in the making. How he got the Thompson family to cooperate, only he and the Man Upstairs can guess. A final and sobering thought: GD makes it painfully evident that it wasn't only the POWs' in country suffering that is significant: Many troubles began in earnest after repatriation and the travails of spouses and children may take a lifetime to heal. Those of us that came back to the world intact and unscarred should count our blessings daily. <br />	2005-04-17
US	52139358	R2G3JCQ3E60XS6	0393315444	263889250	Fatal Justice: Reinvestigating the MacDonald Murders	Books	5	21	36	N	Y	The Pursuit of the Truth!	<br />\\"Fatal Justice\\" concerns the so -called Green Beret Murders, which occurred at Fort Bragg, NC in February, 1970.  A young Green Beret Captain, Jeffrey MacDonald was eventually convicted of killing his wife and two infant daughters. There were several doubts about the Government's case: Among them was mishandled evidence the night of the murder, a hostile trial judge, the accused's selection of a presumptively inappropriate defense attorney and the refusal of the court to entertain exculpatory evidence. Furthermore, there had been an extraordinary delay in brining MacDonald to trial. The Fort Bragg Provost Marshall had refused to recommend a court-martial. Since the proceeding rendering that decision was labeled a \\"criminal investigation\\" and not a \\"judicial proceeding\\", CaptainMacDonald was eligible to be charged in a civil court free of double jeopardy. His appeal based on lack of a speedy trial was denied. MacDonald received three life terms in Federal Prison and there he sits to this day. In the early 1980s, the popular novel \\"Fatal Vision\\" told the MacDonald story to the country. It raised considerable doubt about the quality of the conviction. Yet this reviewer believed, as did many Americans, that justice had likely, if not definitively, been achieved. A TV movie with Karl Malden and Eva Marie Saint solidified that sentiment.  Fatal Justice turns the entire MacDonald affair upside down: FJ is the most disturbing true crime report this reviewer has read. It was hard for this reviewer to remain calm! FJ denotes in great and painful detail how MacDonald was railroaded to the jailhouse by a lying, duplicitous, dishonest prosecution that first decided on his guilt and then made the evidence fit their case. There was wholesale direct or indirect suppression of evidence. Other witnesses who could have cleared the Captain were not allowed to testify-including one man who admitted to the murders! Disclosures from the ubiquitous Helena Stoeckley would have blownthe case open! The Captain's original claim that drug crazed intruders committed the act, which seemed so far fetched at trial, now appears exculpatory. A strong defense could have raised so much reasonable doubt with a fair- minded jury!  Yet after years of research by the authors, not to mention teams of MacDonald lawyers, the courts have ruled that it is too late to introduce new evidence! MacDonald's attorneys should have exercised due diligence and discovered the surpressed evidence back in the 1970s! How does one discover evidence that, for all practical purposes is surpressed?  It is safe to assume that those interested in the case have read FV. These folks owe it to themselves to also read FJ! Everyone is entitles to their own opinion but this reviewer questions how anybody who contemplates FV and FJ can fail to agree that MacDonald is innocent. The expectation of a fair trail, the presumption of innocence until proven guilty, the concept of reasonable doubt in determining innocence, the guarantee of speedy trial, the convicted's due of a just and impartial appeal, redress against prosecutorial misconduct, the right to have exculpatory factors admitted as evidence are all outrightly assaulted by the MacDonald murder case. Any of the amazon community can suffer from an over-zealous prosecution someday. FJ is deeply serious food for thought, regardless of one's opinion on the specifics of the Green Beret Murder Case. Critics may carp that FJ is sometimes repetitive.  The view here is that the authors are good lawyers  driving home their points. Messrs. Potter and Bost should be commended for their dogged research and pursuit of the truth. <br />	2005-03-24
US	52139358	R2S37EWE0H20JC	0135307678	459534226	From the Heart	Books	3	9	12	N	Y	Closer to Heaven Than Nashville	<br />\\"From the Heart\\" reminded this reviewer of \\"Bus Fare to Kentucky\\", the autobiography of country singer Skeeter Davis.  What was anticipated here as a \\"Country\\" story got entwined in a religious message. FH is a series of vignettes/ short stories of Nashville folk and the Carter entourage. Those anticipating a linear progression of June's career may be disappointed. Those who like a moral to their country story should not be. Since my review of Skeeter's literary endeavor may have been a tad sarcastic, this reviewer will give June a pass: 3 stars.  The country biography of choice remains \\"Country Sunshine\\", portraying the life of the late and great Dottie West.  <br />	2005-03-19
US	52139358	R1L2LKP2798NFU	0975498304	622398626	Thoughts Etched in Jade	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Thoughtful Glance Across the Big Pond	<br />(Disclosure: This reviewer received an unsolicited copy from the publisher. What appears here was unaffected by that gesture.) \\"Thoughts Edged in Jade\\" is slim, attractive volume of Vietnam-oriented poetry. The same Marine veteran who wrote \\"Eye of the Tiger\\" wrote TEJ.  Both are highly recommended. The soft tone of the poetry herein makes it plain Mr. Delezen has come to terms with the Vietnamese. . This reviewer liked \\"The Dispossessed\\", about those tragic humans known as \\"The Boat People\\". \\"Saigon Toujours\\" deals with the dawn of a new day in that strange place, which many of us refuse to call \\"Ho Chi Minh City\\". Other readers will nominate their favorites. One cannot conclude a review of TEJ without an acknowledgement of the highly professional production values therein. The photos are sharp and clear, the stock is heavy and firm and the typesetting is extremely eye pleasing. Issues that most ignore or suffer through are very well handled here. TEJ could almost qualify as a coffee table addition. It's that attractive. The bottom line to TEJ is that this is a Vietnam book-one more unique observation into that war which won't go away. Vets, or at least those who have traveled there, are encouraged to try TEJ.  <br />	2005-03-02
US	52139358	R3J707V3WJZHMY	1571685863	188005700	Houston Oilers: The Early Years	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Nice and Pleasant	Now HERE is a nice pleasant sports story about the good old days!  In this case, the time frame refers to the 1960 and 1961 seasons of the Houston Oilers in the late, lamented American Football League- long before the NFL merger. If one has forgotten, or never knew, how much simpler pro sports were in those days, HOEY will make it plain. For the record, the Oilers actually were the AFL champions for those two years. This reviewer, an AFL diehard to this day, was reminded of those wonderful AFL TV broadcasts on late Sunday afternoons. The NFL game of the week would be over by 4:00 PM in the East. Then at 4:30, Curt Gowdy and Paul Cristman would do the AFL game on ABC. Those wide open; frequently helter skelter contests defined the new league. There was plenty of player talent in those days to stock a few more teams. And there was always something counter cultural about the AFL compared to the Madison Avenue undertone of the NFL in the Pete Rozelle era. I still believe that man almost ruined the sport! HOEY is fully recommended to fans that wish to relive those crazy years, not to mention ANY follower of Texas football. A centerfold features timely photos of those halcyon Oilers or their Fleer cards. The only weakness that bothered this reviewer was its'length. An editor with a sharp blue pencil could have cut out a few pages. That point aside, this one is to enjoy! Hats off to author Carroll (a fellow H.C. grad) for a job well done. On a related note, amazoners from this part of the world may wish to try William Ryczek's \\"Crash of the Titans\\" about the early years of the Titans/Jets. Why not buy both? <br /> <br />	2005-03-02
US	52139358	RZ9KQ88M6YPWN	081297476X	656230811	The Bush Survival Bible: 250 Ways to Make it Through the Next Four Years Without Misunderestimating the Dangers Ahead, and Other Subliminable Stategeries	Books	3	8	13	N	N	More Preaching to the Choir!	It will take a lot more than \\"The Bush Survival Bible\\" to get sensible Americans through the next 4 dark and gloomy years in the reign of WII and the neocoms.  One can only hope that this country is not beyond the tipping point. The text is full of helpful hints, suggestions, pointers and aphorisms to the distressed blue state mourners. Here is a sampling: 6 tips to maintain sanity, 6 ways to get involved in local politics and 9 groups to join. Just in case one fears we have hit rock bottom, there is a list of 9 leaders worse than W (Hitler and Stalin, for example!) and another of 7 politicians WORSE than W. That one includes Haley Barbour and Tom DeLay. Heaven help us!  By now, this reviewer assumes that browsers have the picture. These lists might be amusing and semi-helpful but they are not long enough to fill up enough paperback pages.  So BSB fleshes out the text with more lists! These encompass 6 reasons to love global warming, 9 drinks to get you by (!), 8 excuses for being late to work and the topper: 5 lovable dog brands. I like Collies and Golden Labs too but not in a New York City apartment!  Finally, there is a list of 7 countries to move to-ostensibly for the health insurance. Once W is through with that, the USA certainly won't have any. In the last analysis, the problems W has caused-and WILL CAUSE- this nation are far too serious to be addressed by a breezy, wafer thin paperback. It will take hard work to replace W with a sane and sound Chief Executive.  We need serious grassroots action in this country and to accomplish that vital task. What we don't need is more slick, tongue-in-cheek preaching to the choir as found within the fast-turning pages of BSB.	2005-02-10
US	52139358	RIUGH317UWU7X	0805074287	882513594	City in the Sky: The Rise and Fall of the World Trade Center	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	Wait for the Paperback	\\"City in the Sky\\" is a well- researched, well -documented account of the site acquisition, construction, and eventual collapse of the New York World Trade Center. (There are other WTCs).  It is immediately obvious that the authors have conducted extensive interviews and research.  Full disclosure: This reviewer worked at the facility for 24 years for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Most of the anecdotes retold in CIS are just as I originally heard them years ago. (With some exceptions: On Austin Tobin's first trip on the newly acquired Hudson and Manhattan Railroad, the sleeping drunk supposedly woke up long enough to bid the Executive Director \\"good evening\\" before passing out again. Also, some of the PA titles are inaccurate, though not wrong. There was one obvious leg-pull about a \\"mailroom worker\\".) CIS in really 3 stories in one: The first is the strongest: That tale encompasses the struggle to condemn the surrounding real estate, overcome local opposition and secure Governmental cooperation for the project. Those who enjoyed such works as Robert Caro's \\"The Power Broker\\" will be in their element here.  The second is concerned with the actual construction of the 2 towers and satellite buildings.  The authors manage to include just enough technical details to tell the story without allowing this section of CIS to become too technical.  The final part deals with that tragic day we now call 9/11.  This reviewer does not wish to minimize that awful event but this tale has been told better, or as well, elsewhere. One assumes its' inclusion was virtually mandatory in a 400+ page work on the Trade Center but it emerges, perhaps strangely, as the weakest section of CIS. This reviewer hopes he was mistaken when he read that some of the victims who jumped to their deaths were in fact pushed by co-workers needing window space. A major difficulty with the text is that the authors appear too inclined to blame the Port Authority for inadequate fireproofing ofthe towers. This may-or may NOT! -be so but this serious charge is not substantiated here. Furthermore the PA executive most of the allegations are heaped upon has been dead for some 20 years and is hardly in a position to defend himself. CIS' strength is the relating of the struggles to build the Towers in the light of another era. Those were the days of Radio Row, a vastly different New York City, the maximum power of the Rockefeller Family and what those a bit older that this reviewer fondly remember as the \\"good old days\\" at Mother PONYA.  CIS is entirely worthwhile but far from urgent reading. Amazoners may wish to wait for the more moderate prices of a paperback edition. That event would warrant a 4th star.	2005-02-10
US	52139358	R19PHZUM0AWSSC	082308289X	170262055	The Billboard Book of Top 40 Country Hits	Books	5	10	13	N	N	What a perfect present!	Want to know how many Top 40 hits Connie Smith or Red Sovine had? Where those their real names? What were their hometowns?  How many Top 40 songs did Tammy have with George? How often and by which artists did \\"I Take the Chance\\" make the charts? (Answers below!).  Compiler Whitburn has produced the ultimate toy for country music lovers. Also included is each chart hit, singer by singer, song by song.  There is an alphabetical listing of each hit, showing who recorded them and another menu of the Top 100 singles going back to 1944.  Readers will learn the Top Artists according to decade and all #1 songs cataloged chronologically. Plus more! What is not to like? This reviewer has found the listings for each artist VERY helpful in deciding to buy CDs. We all know some compilations are better than others. Armed with Whitburn's information, one can tell how many tracks on a given album made it in the world and which fizzled. Apparently this gem is only available as \\"used\\". I would not hesitate.  Amazon does a good job on used books. Whitburn belongs on the shelf of any serious country fan-or any who would like to be. The answers from above are 39, 13, Constance June Meadows from Elkhart, Indiana, Woodrow Wilson Sovine from Charleston, West Virginia, 13 and 2 (by Ernest Ashworth in '63 and The Browns in '56.) Haven't you placed an order yet?	2005-01-14
US	52139358	R17JRB57KTRRZ3	0451403525	670763922	Blood Lust: Portrait of a Serial Sex Killer (Onyx)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	"Peaceful" Oregon!	<br /> <br /> <br />\\"Blood Lust\\" represents good no nonsense true crime about a serial killer in Oregon.  That seemingly peaceful and scenic State certainly has had more than its' share of sickos, as TC aficionados (and no doubt the natives) are well aware.  In BL, the protagonist is one Dayton Leroy Rogers who killed and mutilated eight young Portland area women in the mid 1980s.  There is little suspense here.  The killer is identified from the outset.  The reader's interest will revolve around the portrayal of the gruesome manners of the young ladies' deaths and how the local authorities find the corpses and compile their case against Rogers.  Author Gary King strikes a solid balance between crime reporting and the human suffering of the victims.   Since the perpetrator is known, readers may ignore the \\"Ann Rule rule\\" and peruse the centerfold where pictures of the demised humanize them. It's chilling to think that most likely there are more female of Rogers' victims somewhere in this vast area. This reviewer visited Oregon recently and appreciates how rural the state is once one leaves the Portland/Seattle metroplex and the I5 corridor.  12 reprintings since 1992 are a testimony to the obvious and well-deserved popularity of \\"Blood Lust\\".  <br />	2005-01-13
US	52139358	R1S5X8ZK7J1GYW	0786416564	596011124	Eye of the Tiger: Memoir of a United States Marine, Third Force Recon Company, Vietnam	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Burning Bright!	\\"Eye of the Tiger\\" is a beautifully written, almost poetic profile of a U.S. Marine in Vietnam. Eddie Delezen was in a USMC Recon Unit from March of '67 to December of '68. These guys were so deep in the bush that they actually infiltrated North Vietnamese Army infiltration routes! This reviewer has read several descriptions of the Vietnamese landscape and even seen a thin portion of it himself. But this observer has never read such keen verbal portraits of Vietnam-so stark, severe, striking and dangerous all at once. Much of the action takes place along (or over) the borders of the DMZ or that place of ultimate mystery, Laos. \\"Neutral\\" Laos.   <br />The combat stories verge on the surreal, since recon patrols avoided contact with the enemy -in stark contrast to main force units, which sought it. The men also had to avoid contact with the poisonous snakes, vipers and leeches of the boonies. Most of us guys with safe jobs just worried about the rats! ET also features critical basic infantry practice as packing properly for patrol, walking front AND rear point, selecting a nighttime site, setting up the claymores as well as locking in artillery points and radio contacts.   Some of that is not new, but Mr. Delezen does a first rate job of tying it all into his basic story. The author also weaves in fascinating descriptions of murky Vietnamese history and its' mysterious geography. It is poignantly obvious that the author came back to the World  with a respect for Vietnam, a departure from the attitude of so many vets who never wanted to see the place again. And yes, there is a tiger! While on a listening post one day, the author realized he was not alone.  A furry striped friend was watching him!  Delezen doesn't fire so as not to expose himself to a possible nearby enemy! That's patrol discipline! This review cannot conclude without acknowledgment to those chopper pilots and door gunners. How many lives did those guys save in the course of the War? How many men did they extract under withering fire? Reading ET will reinforce that thought and give us respect for them anew.  A final word: Shoppers SHOULD NOT be deterred from the hardcover price tag for this paperback.   ET is worth every penny. The production values are very high.  The typesetting is professionally eye pleasing and this reviewer has not enjoyed sharper photos anywhere! McFarland Publishers should be proud of their first rate work, the guys in the recon units proud of their service to their country and author should be proud of his intense report of Marines in stealthy combat. <br />	2004-12-23
US	52139358	R109OP07OCDAT4	0964766345	113405206	Leave No Man Behind: Bill Bell and the Search for American POW/MIAs from the Vietnam War	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	The Author Is A Hero!	\\"Leave No Man Behind\\" is the true guidepost to the painful saga of resolving the search for POWs and MIAs in Indochina. It should be required for anyone interested in the details and history of the quest. The author, a genuine hero, spent most of 20 years, 1973-1993, interviewing refugees, battling U.S. bureaucrats (military and civilian) and wrestling with Communist officials in Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. He was also this country's senior field investigator, searching remote crash and burial sites for remains of U.S. military. Along the way he was actively involved in the final evacuation from Saigon in 1975. He learned several distinct Vietnamese dialects, the better to communicate/negotiate with the adversary. Few Americans would be that conscientious. Those of us who have followed and supported the search for POWs/MIAs all these years know how venally, dishonestly and even cruelly the Vietnamese have acted. They deny storing remains and then repatriate bodies with obvious evidence of chemical storage. They allow us to \\"investigate\\" crash sites that have been clearly sanitized in advance. Bodies are dug up, moved and reinterred. After payment of search fees, permits, excavation fees and other \\"costs\\", remains are found! And so it goes, on and on, year after frustrating year.  But when Vietnamese act that way, they are being themselves! How can we explain or describe American officials, civilian and military, who descend to the same level? Mr.Bell makes it perfectly clear that a POW assignment was all too often a just soft \\"REMF\\" job. These guys did not want too many POWs being repatriated all at once. How would that look? The longer the searches went on, the longer the comfortable gigs. In the words of a previous reviewer, the whole deal was nothing more than a meal ticket. This reviewer has always suspected that we were own worst enemy and the list of \\"usual suspects\\" is long and sickening. There is no doubt in this quarter that these quislings would never wantany American MIA found alive. They would be too frightened to explain the reappearance! One specific suspect on the list of lowlife Americans is President Carter, who tried very hard to underfund the original search efforts and nip them in the very bud. Another is not President Clinton but John Kerry. He was so in love with normalizing relations with North Vietnam that his so-called Senate Select Committee swept whitewashed the entire POW/MIA effort. All so his family owned company received exclusive American rights to real estate deals in North Vietnam. How Mr. Bell kept his calm and perspective dealing with so man cowardly and selfish Americans is a mystery. This review could continue at great length, but I'm sure my amazon friends have the picture clearly. In a review of Bernard Fall's \\"Street Without Joy\\", this observer closed by writing that the author would be \\"a great guy to have a few beers with\\". I feel the same about Mr. Bell except that he would not have to pay for a round. The author is a true American hero.  I'll conclude this review by restating that \\"Leave No Man Behind\\" is required reading for anyone concerned with the resolution of the 1,845 men still missing in Indochina. <br />	2004-12-19
US	52139358	R37YKVIEP5CSE7	1572435038	415833352	My Life in Baseball	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Good Hot Stove  Action!	To fully appreciate \\"My Life in Baseball\\", it would help if the reader knows what the \\"Hot Stove League\\" is.  (The phrase refers to fans amusing themselves in the cold winter by talking baseball, looking forward to Spring Training- and presumably staying warm around the hot stove in a rural general store.)  MLBB is set mostly in Major League Baseball's golden era, from 1946-1960 when BB was comprised of the original 16 teams and St. Louis and Kansas City were the western outposts.  Robin Roberts played from 1948-1966 but his most productive years were in the early to mid 1950s with the Phillies. The author has an encyclopedic recall of old games, former teammates, managers, coaches, front office staff and opponents. His musings on individuals are more absorbing than the play by play in games of long ago. This reviewer was more taken with Roberts' less productive years in the early to mid 60s as he struggled to hold on with the Orioles, Cubs and Astros.  The reader follows with admiration as Roberts invents a life for himself outside of Major League Baseball. He was highly instrumental in the formation of the Major League Players Association, though he disagrees with some of the actions that organization has taken. MLBB is an intelligent sports biography by a thoughtful and serious athlete. Roberts attained success on and off the playing field but had his struggles as well. He tells it like it is and, as another reviewer noted, does not use MLBB to settles old grudges. If one is over 50, or a die-hard Phillie fan of any age, MLBB is a safe choice. One dig at the author: How did he not know that Sal \\"The Barber' Maglie of the New York Giants and Brooklyn Dodgers didn't shave on days he was scheduled to pitch? (It made him more intimidating to the batters!)  Every school kid in New York City knew that one! Those who fondly remember Sal will enjoy MLBB.	2004-12-16
US	52139358	R1PWVRU2TU8DE8	5551304256	664400131	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	20	32	N	N	Scary!	There is something eerily fitting about submitting a review of \\"Against All Enemies\\" on Halloween! This is the most alarming and frightening piece of nonfiction writing this reviewer has ever dealt with. By now, most amazoners won't need the plot retold. In any event, doing so would be too painful. Let us all hope that by the time most amazon friends read this piece, the Presidential election that has so badly divided this country will be settled.  The key theme of AAE is that a change of direction is urgently needed in Washington. Let's hold our collective breaths and pray we get one!	2004-10-31
US	52139358	R24QVC792RKYVJ	0881846481	361354622	Crossfire: The Plot That Killed Kennedy	Books	5	13	16	N	Y	It's ALL Here!	\\"Crossfire\\" is a virtual encyclopedia of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963.  It is a challenge to describe it concisely. CF examines the events of that fateful day from multiple vantagepoints.  It introduces far more personalities and possibilities than this reviewer would have dreamed of.  For example, CF blends in the plausible connections to the assassination of the Mafia, the CIA, Big Business/Big Oil, FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover, Vice President Johnson, and former Vice President Richard Nixon. The common theme is who would have benefitted from JFK's removal from office?  That mystery man known as Lee Harvey Oswald is key to any JFK investigation, regardless of whether he was a tiggerman. Pages are devoted to Oswald's activities and movements in the months and years proceeding November 22, 1963.  The author thoroughly examines the possibilities of Oswald fakes, doubles and imposters. The reader may suspect that his wife, Marina, may have been more than an innocent housewife. Pages are also devoted to Oswald's assassin, the ubiquitous Jack Ruby.  Marrs looks into a plethora of witnesses: Their collective accounts make it painfully plain that the fatal shots came from JFK's front AND rear. Those who doubted that obvious fact should believe it after reading CF. The author also lists the egregiously \\"coincidental\\" deaths of 103 individuals connected with the President's death or investigations into it. For example there is the instance of Congressman Boggs of Louisiana, who wanted to reexamine the events in Dallas. His plane disappeared in a remote section of Alaska, never to be found. Finally, the author thoroughly, completely and without reservation skewers the feckless Warren Commission and the so-called House Select Committee on Assassinations. Marrs points an author's finger at a mysterious Corsican connection to JFK's death but takes no firm stand. As this reviewer recalls, the six part History Channel series-\\"The Men Who Killed Kennedy\\" did likewise. CF features a 23-page \\"conclusion\\", which succeeds only in being inconclusive. It is plain that Lee Oswald and Jack Ruby are central to the event. It's also obvious that the aftermath of the Bay of Pigs invasion is critical. Former and dissident CIA operatives were furious (!) for the failed attempt to overthrow Castro. This reader has always been curious about JFK's decision to shut down a \\"secret\\" CIA training camp in Houma, LA two months before his death. Was that a last straw to those who plotted his death? In the final analysis, CF opens more doors than it closes and raises FAR more questions than it answers. CF is so thorough, it will deepen the mystery of JFK's death, not help solve it. The curious will have to read and research further. Jim Garrison's \\"On the Trail of the Assassins is a solid and more concise alternative. It's safe to opine that once one gets the JFK bug (s)he will want to keep reading. Marrs is to be congratulated for his painstaking research into a tragic subject. Since CF is currently in its' 12th printing, many others must agree with this positive review.led Kennedy\\" did likewise. CF features a 23-page \\"conclusion\\", which succeeds only in being inconclusive. It is plain that Lee Oswald and Jack Ruby are central to the event. It's also obvious that the aftermath of the Bay of Pigs invasion is critical. Former and dissident CIA operatives were furious (!) for the failed attempt to overthrow Castro. This reader has always been curious about JFK's decision to shut down a \\"secret\\" CIA training camp in Houma, LA two months before his death. Was that a last straw to those who plotted his death? In the final analysis, CF opens more doors than it closes and raises FAR more questions than it answers. CF is so thorough, it will deepen the mystery of JFK's death, not help solve it. The curious will have to read and research further. Jim Garrison's \\"On the Trail of the Assassins is a solid and more concise alternative. It's safe to opine that once one gets the JFK bug (s)he will want to keep reading. Marrs is to be congratulated for his painstaking research into a tragic subject. Since CF is currently in its' 12th printing, many others must agree with this positive review.	2004-10-31
US	52139358	R394KA49P32BY8	0935280006	683647337	When Hell Was in Session	Books	5	32	32	N	N	It must have been hell	Here is yet another first rate tale of an American P.O.W.  in North Vietnam. The prisoner is Navy pilot Jeremiah Denton, who was based on the carrier \\"Independence\\".  His A6 aircraft was shot down in July of 1965.  Denton spent the following 8+ years in captivity until the general release in the Spring of 1973. The title refers to the torture \\"sessions\\" Denton and his colleagues suffered at the hands of their captors. This reviewer has read several P.O.W. accounts. While all are similar in that they demonstrate great bravery and perseverance in brutal situations, each is also unique: WHWS focuses on the military command structures that existed in prison despite rigorous Vietnamese efforts to stymie them. The senior military commanders/prisoners like Admiral Stockdale, Colonel Robinson Risner and others obviously possessed a tremendous pride and strove to imbue that pride in all P.O.Ws. Denton pulls few punches.  It startled this observer to learn that not all prisoners always agreed with the \\"program\\" and not all P.O.W.s were the best of buddies behind the walls.  The author stresses the ubiquitous \\"tap code\\" that allowed communication within the prison walls. There is even an introductory chart to tapping! Denton glosses over his 4(!) years in solitary and concentrates on the other 4 years he was free to \\"mingle\\" with his fellow Americans. There is a noticeable lack of venom and bitterness toward the North Vietnamese in the text. The reader may suspect that Denton has come to terms with his years in the Hanoi Hilton and other garden spots of the North.  WHWS is rated 5 stars with only 2 minor demerits: One is the absence of ANY maps. Most war books gloss over maps but surely the publisher could have inserted one! The other weakness is the appallingly small type in my paperback edition. Those interested in Admiral/Senator Denton's story may wish to verify before purchase how the many available editions of WHWS handle these issues.	2004-10-31
US	52139358	R24REBJ97UGK63	0312984170	475326789	The Stranger In My Bed (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	3	14	17	N	Y	There are some Problems!	\\"The Stranger in My Bed\\" is very similar to another true crime tale-\\"The Surgeon's Wife\\" by Kieran Crowley. In each case the authors-or their publishers-made the strange decision to print the outcome right on the back cover! This reviewer learned his lesson from SW. SIMB maintained suspense. New readers are forewarned! SIMB opens with the discovery of a female corpse (a \\"Jane Doe\\") in an Indiana field. The reader will quickly surmise that that Jane Doe will surface later in the story. The plot then backtracks through the various marriages / female relationships of John Smith, the main character. John's first (known) wife, Betty, disappears. John is not charged but the police and Betty's family remain highly suspicious. John remarries a girl named Diane Bertalan- who also vanishes. Counting Jane Doe, there are now 3 missing female bodies. How many other corpses will show up? How many past wives or former girlfriends has John disposed of?  Pressure from Betty's family eventually starts the wheels of law enforcement spinning. This reviewer won't reveal the plot, but the investigation eventually involves the Law from New Jersey, Ohio, Indiana, Connecticut and California.  Is justice served? There is no easy answer. Readers will just have to read SIMB for themselves but as a hint-Jane Doe is very central to the plot. She does indeed \\"surface\\" again. To fully enjoy SIMB, amazoners need to take two steps: The first is to ignore the back cover. The second is to remember the \\"Ann Rule rule\\". Skip over those tempting centerfold photos. They outrightly reveal the ending. Finally, the author gratuitously drops a major clue right in the text! Readers cannot avoid that gaff. One wishes Fleeman had stirred the pot a bit harder. He had such fine material to work with. Combining this failure with the \\"security lapses\\", a rating of 3 stars seems appropriate, if a bit harsh. Other readers may add a 4th star but SIMB falls short of the true crime classic it had the potential to be.	2004-09-27
US	52139358	R2FBZUOA36BQSI	0060736704	717178025	Bush on the Couch: Inside the Mind of the President	Books	5	41	48	N	Y	BUT!-The Author Is Preacing to the CHOIR!!!	<br /> <br /> <br />One's opinion of \\"Bush on the Couch\\" will be formed solely by the reader's PRIOR viewpoint on the President.  BOC is certain to change no opinions, only to harden them.  As proof, look at the plethora of one star OR five star ratings below. Whether it is the nation as a whole or the amazon family, this President has deeply divided us! Author Frank's premise is the following: Due to a whole host of family and mental \\"issues\\", W should not be reelected. These include: past alcohol abuse with no subsequent counseling (making W a \\"dry drunk\\"), his frequent napping, a near total fixation with routine and schedule, the strutting and smirking that indicate grandiosity, dyslexia, the indications of ADHD and/or Tourette's Syndrome, a hard rigidity in belief and an addiction to religion with no apparent regular church attendance. The Bush family's relationships are far too lengthy and strained to be included in a concise review. They are definitely part of the strange W brew. As it says above, the author is preaching to the choir. W haters are encouraged to buy BOC but the invitation and five star rating come with a warning attached: It will take more than a few works like BOC to remove W from the White House. Only a concerted effort from the American people can accomplish that necessary and vital task. <br />	2004-09-01
US	52139358	R3Q80H2XDFFH5S	0786015543	912712505	No, Daddy, Don't!: A Father's Murderous Act of Revenge	Books	5	72	76	N	Y	But what goes on behind closed doors?	<br /> <br /> <br />One might suspect that any book with the title \\"No, Daddy Don't\\" would be serious and bloody. That assessment would be correct.  NDD is first tier true crime and recommended without reservation. NDD is a hard and uncompromising true crime tale about a horrific, brutal abuser named John Battaglia. The setting is in Dallas. Battaglia murders his two daughters while on a visitation. His former wife actually hears the murders via cell phone!    This takes place in the earliest pages. TDD proceeds to unfold like a classic noir crime tale: the story line is a flashback. This is a tried and true device, which does not detract from the suspense. Readers will be kept enthralled to learn if Battaglia will ever be brought to justice on two counts: one is for the murders, the other for the gross abusiveness to his second wife, Mary Jean. This observer won't give the plot away but the curious are forewarned. NDD is not light reading (an occasional true crime tale may be). There is only one complaint from this source-the absence of an epilogue. Since NDD is now on its' third reprint, one thinks the author could have completed the circle of where the main characters are today.  Also: \\"The Ann Rule rule\\" is definitely is effect for NDD. Those centerfold photos reveal the ending! Skip over them till the very end. Sadly, one has to wonder what goes on behind closed doors in many marriages? How many spouses suffer physical and mental abuse in private with no one to turn to?  <br />	2004-08-25
US	52139358	R2M2TEPIL960BG	0393324877	510021043	The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Like Those Old Textbooks	\\"The Future of Freedom\\" reminds this observer of old college textbooks: FF contains some very interesting passages, some I could not possibly understand and others that may be skipped entirely. One wonders that as well known columnist, the author may be more skilled at the short, focused pieces he writes for \\"Newsweek\\" than the longer fare of this book. FA devotes some interesting pages to the political systems of other nations, including ancient ones. Much space is devoted to present day, post-Communist Russia. The high points are some poignant observations on the USA:   Zakaria writes that lobbyists have so taken over Washington that many Senators and Congressmen are almost \\"for sale\\". This situation is acerbated by the decline of strong party leaders. In another day, these guys would have been called \\"Bosses\\". The increasing importance of Presidential primaries is yet an additional reason for these phenomena.  Fewer and fewer delegates are selected-and controlled- by the political pros. Another is the post Watergate reforms, which greatly lessened the power of the former Committee chairmen in Congress. In the \\"old days\\", they could single-handedly determine which proposals came up for approval and could proceed to the floor for an actual vote. This reviewer likes the author's contention that a strong central Governments such as Singapore and Chile is preferable to a nation with an \\"elected thug\\" such as Venezuela. Those halcyon textbooks would have labeled them \\"benevolent despots\\". FA demands close attention, perhaps too much.   It is NOT for the casual reader. Furthermore, this is a work of political science and assuredly not one of history. That is a big difference! Readers are forewarned! Serious, carnivorous poly-sci types have a green light to proceed	2004-08-20
US	52139358	RSZISUWV8BW14	0684857634	742421958	Will You Miss Me When I'm Gone?: The Carter Family and Their Legacy in American Music	Books	3	6	13	N	Y	What About Carlene?	Those interested in \\"Will You Miss Me\\" need to do two things before reading a single word: 1) consult a good map and locate Scott County way down in the southwestern tip of Virginia where Tennessee and Kentucky meet.  Bristol, TN (pop. 23,000) will be the nearest city. 2) Buy and listen to an actual Carter Family CD.  This reviewer recommends \\"Can the Circle Be Unbroken\\" but there are other suitable choices. Until those steps are taken, there is no point in proceeding.  Readers must have a musical and geographical context for the group.  Once they begin, readers will be exposed to lengthy and deep portrayal of the lives of Alvin Pleasant (A.P.) Carter, Sara Daugherty Carter and Maybelle Addington Carter, all from Maces Springs, VA -who comprised the original \\"Carter Family\\".  It was Maybelle who became the matriarch as the years went by. One is tempted to subtitle the book \\"Everything You Always Wanted to Know About the Carters\\". That aside, WYMM is certainly meticulous. In great detail, it relates the inter and intra family backgrounds and traces the 3 as they slowly rise to stardom during the years of the Great Depression. When Sara and A..P. sadly divorce, things change. The group becomes virtually nomadic, travelling about from show to show This was in an era (which lasted at least into the 1960s) when performers made as much money by touring as by straight record sales. And in person performances appear to have been the Carters' forte. As the story progresses, other family members emerge most notably Maybelle's daughters June and Anita.  June too should not be judged by here \\"mere' 10 Billboard hits from 1949-1976. Her flair was also live performing. I had no idea she was so talented. Along the long and winding road of WYMM, the readers meet a callow and upcoming Elvis Presley, a declining and even dangerous Hank Williams, a fading Jimmie Rodgers in his final days, and most of all Johnny Cash. The Man in Black certainly had an effect on the Carters. They joinedhis so-called Road Show circa 1961. Was it a mixed blessing? (This reviewer actually suffered through a \\"Road Show\\" at Radio City Music Hall. I still want my money back).  The final chapters of WYMM are mostly concerned with Mother Maybelle as she gamely soldiers on from concert to concert, even performing at the Newport Folk Festival. Hank must have rolled over in his grave that night! One family member receiving little mention is Maybelle's daughter, Carlene. She is the one this reviewer is now curious about! This reviewer hesitates to recommend WYMM to the casual reader, thus the 3 star rating. Serious (!) country fans may safely add a 4th star. But serious fans may also carp at the authors for factual mistakes and a lack of passion for the genre that so bothered other reviewers. This reviewer MISSED that miscaptioned photo of June Carter with her \\"husband\\" on Page 334, but others certainly spotted it! The fact that there even IS a page 334 is the essential problem with WYMM. There is too much detail with too much time devoted to Maybelle alone and far too much space given to minor Carter relations. That 5th star is reserved for only the most devoted followers.	2004-08-20
US	52139358	R2I8RA81VZHKKY	082171113X	466819758	Escape From Laos	Books	5	29	30	N	Y	Remember the 377	This reviewer has read several P.O.W. tales. Each is disturbing yet stirring.  Each paints a picture of physical and mental courage in face of overwhelming physical, military, personal odds. What sets \\"Escape from Laos\\" apart is the sheer mystery surrounding the Indochina war in that mysterious landlocked country.  Even those of us who served in Vietnam (but were spared combat) can at least relate geographically to many stories. We could locate Cu Chi, An Khe and Khe Sanh on a map. But Laos?  To orientate ourselves, EFL is the tale of a Navy Pilot, Dieter Dengler and his escape from a Pathet Lao POW camp in eastern Laos. My edition's one map shed no further geopgrapical light on the situation. Inferior maps no longer surprise this reviewer. Dengler escapes his surprisingly undisciplined guards easily enough. But what amazes the reader, almost boggles the mind, is the sheer geographical challenge he faced. Could remotest and wildest Vietnam be so brutal? And how did the guy feed himself in the bush and deal with the \\"animal creatures\\" encountered along the way. I wasn't aware-but surprised! - That the PL and VC tried to lure rescue choppers to their doom with phony escapees signaling for rescue. I also wasn't aware -but was surprised -that POWs ATE the rats they captured! We gave them to our mamasan to dump. Dengler (obviously) made it to freedom but his good news opens up another unpleasant subject. Over 500 men went missing in Laos. We know that our sniveling Ambassador to Vientiane, one William Sullivan, actively discouraged rescue operations. But only 10 men emerged alive from the 500! One was Dengler.9 more were released but via HANOI! Where are the others? At the time of this review, 377 men remain unaccounted for in Laos. It is sad and strange that such a wonderful tale has to share such an unpleasant spotlight but we simply cannot ignore the other MIAs. Yet the bottom line here is Dengler. His heroic escape should be an inspiration to all of us. He is a shining credit to this country and to the Navy. Period!	2004-08-20
US	52139358	R2DUL9W0RYB8ZS	039914871X	934933413	The Secrets of Inchon: The Untold Story of the Most Daring Covert Mission of the Korean War	Books	3	6	8	N	N	The Publisher/Editor Falls Down	Full disclosure: This reviewer failed to read \\"The Secrets of Inchon\\" as closely as he would have preferred. The Inchon Landing of September, 1950 was one of the most heroic and timely exploits in U.S. military history. It came at the lowest point in the Korean War as our troops were trapped in the far Southeast corner of the peninsula (\\"the Pusan Perimeter\\"). The invasion, behind enemy lines, broke the back of the North Korean Army, virtually eliminating it as a military force. In the weeks before the invasion, the author landed a commando team on the islands surrounding Inchon. His team obtained critical information on the size of the local garrison, disposition of machine gun nests, artillery emplacements, and the height of the seawalls. This should have made for an exciting military story and for others it did. However, this reviewer was distracted to the point of total frustration by the inadequacies of the physical book. There are 3 major problems: 1) Most of all, the MAPS are of TOTAL inadequacy. This is a major defect in an operation where geography was of overriding importance. Why do publishers permit such lapses? 2) The centerfold photos are dull and serve virtually no purpose.  Surely the Navy could have provided better. 3) The typesetting is completely unprofessional. More than that, it hurts the eye. There is no spacing between the paragraphs through the ENTIRE text!  I found myself skimming pages to save my sight! The bottom line is that mistakes and omissions by the publisher have marred a potentially superior tale.  Hopefully, future reprintings can address these shortcomings.  Perhaps the hardcover edition does not contain them at all.  The call from this corner is a reduction in rank from 5 stars to 3.  This is solely due to the sloppy or otherwise disinterested publisher-or sleeping editor-who failed to support a superior piece of military reporting.	2004-06-30
US	52139358	R3LPPESHUYI8PE	0446362778	732381530	On the Trail of the Assassins	Books	5	85	95	N	Y	The Search for the Truth	On the Trail of the Assassins is an excellent starting point for those trying to make sense of the 1963 assassination of John F. Kennedy, 35th President of the United States.  The author was the District Attorney of New Orleans, Louisiana at the time of the shooting. He felt, rightly it seems, that his jurisdiction contained a hotbed of intrigue against J.F.K. OTA is 2 tales in one:  The first marshals the virtual kaleidoscope of sinister information, actual events, recreated events, innuendo, questions, malfeasance, lying, ineptitude, charges and countercharges behind the killing. The second relates the author's frustrating attempts to convict a real life person with plotting the act.  The first effort is highly successful. This is true at least to the extent that the attentive reader should be convinced that 1) Lee Harvey Oswald certainly DID NOT assassinate Kennedy on his own and 2) was in every likelihood not DIRECTLY involved with the shooting -period.  Furthermore, the author proved, to this reviewer's satisfaction that 3) Oswald also did not shoot Dallas Police Officer J.D.Tipitt that fateful afternoon. Linking Tippit to Oswald is critical in determining guilt. Finally, the author effectively eliminates the Mafia as the culprits in the crime. The foregoing is no small accomplishment. Left unanswered are the mysteries that have plagued virtually anyone who is unsatisfied with the Warren Commission or subsequent House investigation into the affair. A partial list of these issues encompass: the virtual criminal activities surrounding Kennedy's so called autopsy, the presence of a second and even third (!) gunman in Dallas that day, the outright theft of the President's brain from the National Archives and the total and complete failure of the Secret Service to protect J.F.K. in Dallas. The author properly raises the right questions.  Like most investigators, he is unable to provide answers. The most tantalizing questions of all concern Oswald: Who was he? If hedid not shoot the President, why is he so prominent And what on the fringes of the event? He certainly was on the scene that day. Was he set up to take the fall? Was he a patsy? His own murder two days after that of the President proved that someone wanted him silenced. The second tale surrounds the trial of one Clay Shaw, a local prominent business leader. Shaw was not charged with the murder but in forming a plot to carry out the assassination. No reader should be surprised at his acquittal.  Garrison's case was unspecific and not coherently put together for such a serious charge. The jury s decision does not detract from the book one iota. There are so many unanswered questions and unexplained events to the Kennedy assassination it boggles the mind. The overriding burden lies in assigning specificity . At least Garrison tried to bring someone to justice.     Conspiracy theorists will have to read further to get more answers to the frustrating questions. One weak point is the inadequacy of the one map of Dealey Plaza, the murder site. A more serious detraction is that so many facts are spread out over the text, many buried in footnotes. Readers will have to work hard! These facts, like the Shaw prosecution, are not always coherently presented, a strange omission from such an experienced lawyer. In fairness to the author, this may reflect poor editing, not poor writing. One cautionary note from this observer: The Kennedy assassination is highly similar to another troubling affair: The missing POWs and MIAs from Indochina. In both instances, our Government failed us. And in both cases, the full truth will never be known. There remains no reason not to continue to seek answers no matter how frustrating. If enough of us try hard enough for long enough, perhaps more of the truth will one day emerge.	2004-06-23
US	52139358	R1ZI8VVE6YZ2KE	031298524X	998641935	Grave Accusations: A True Story of Lies, Family Secrets, and Death (True Crime (St. Martin's Paperbacks))	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	With a New Mexico accent	&quot;Grave Accusations&quot; concerns the suspicious death of Monica Dunn.  She was the former wife of Paul Dunn, a Farmington, New Mexico cop.  The circumstances of Monica's demise are questionable, to say the least.  In an apparent rush to judgement by the local District Attorney, Paul is charged with her murder.  Officer Dunn claims Monica committed suicide. GA proceeds from this adversarial stating point and follows the cases of both prosecution and defense. Although the text is slow paced and frequently repetitive, suspense is maintained until the jury renders its verdict. Readers are advised that despite the &quot;maintenance of suspense&quot;, authoress Egger is scarcely an impartial observer.  She wrote GA in cooperation with the defendant! Consequently, the prosecution's viewpoint is downplayed, if not almost scorned. The local D.A.and his expert witnesses are labeled as venal, politically motivated and even incompetent.  Egger then proceeds to portray the defense team as crusaders for justice when they really are just well -paid hired guns. Two observations on those centerfold photos:  They are boring and far from &quot; startling&quot;, as the book jacket claims.  They are as bland as can be. They neither shed light on the resolution nor do they humanize the characters. The &quot;Ann Rule rule&quot; is NOT in effect!  GA is still recommended. At least it is different. How many true crime tales are set in remote Northwestern New Mexico?  True crime aficionados should be satisfied with GA if they can ignore the overstated evidence and hold Egger's preset prejudices in abeyance.	2004-06-20
US	52139358	R1VKUX71DC122J	0060171219	273669824	Eamon De Valera: The Man Who Was Ireland	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Thorny!	Author Coogan's works on Irish history tend to be long, very well researched, deeply documented and rich in detail.  They are written for the serious, not the casual reader. This biography of Eamon de Valera is no exception. Moreover, de Valera s life was complicated and controversial. He is scarcely a hero to many Irish Americans familiar with their native country's past. Most of all, he suffers-pitifully it says here- from comparisons to the true hero of Ireland?s struggle for independence-Michael Collins.  Bad feeling between them was directly responsible for Ireland?s tragic Civil War in the mid 1920s. This reviewer freely admits to his definite prejudices against de Valera and one suspects that author Coogan agrees. The advice from here is to read Coogan s Michael Collins: The Man Who Made Ireland first. Those with ravenously whetted appetites may proceed-with caution- to this weighty and gloomy text. This reviewer's father once told him that one cannot understand modern Ireland without understanding de Valera. That much may be true-but why torture oneself? Why devote hours reading about a gloomy, narrow minded and devious Spanish Irishman such as this? And a math teacher no less! The bottom line is that both Collins and de Valera inspire strong feelings. Some actual knowledge of Irish history deepens this effect. The result is an abiding difficulty in writing a neutral review on one of those men just after you have just posted one on the other. This reviewer urges his amazon friends to read all the posted opinions on this weighty effort from the gifted, if long winded Tim Pat Coogan. Too much hand wriniging? Welcome to Irish history 101.	2004-05-12
US	52139358	R3LDPWD3ZXBAIB	0312294166	267757181	The IRA	Books	3	43	49	N	N	A Word of Caution!	Fair Warning: Tim Pat Coogan's \\"The IRA\\" is a lengthy, serious and highly detailed work of Irish history. It will be certain to disappoint the casual reader. The subject matter is grim. It encompasses the history of the Irish Republican Army from the early 1920's to the present-depressing- day. The several reprintings virtually guarantee some repetition in the text.  The glorious years of the Easter Rising (1916-1921) are not central. IRA military heroics from that era are basically ignored. Instead \\"The IRA\\" commences at the end of the Irish Civil War and the dawn of the Irish Free State circa 1922 and leads up to the present -depressing- day. \\"The IRA\\" is exhaustively researched with supporting anecdotes and interviews galore. It is rich in detail. There is no doubt that one is reading true and accurately reported happenings. Author Coogan obviously possess a wide range of contacts in the Irish Republic and Northern Ireland. He must not lack for friends and drinking companions! This reviewer knows first hand that he is an entertaining -and credible- speaker. However \\"The IRA\\" is far too long. Given the interesting subject matter, it is strangely dry. One might wonder, given the reprintings, why a sharp penciled editor has not stepped in to reshape the copy. Nonetheless the SERIOUS (!) student of Irish affairs will be satisfied. Works such as this are essential to an appreciation of the history of the troubled island. Yet, the final word on Mr. Coogan's findings must be a pessimistic one. There have been so many false starts, false promises, broken treaties, broken dreams, dead ends, double dealing, lying, spinelessness and outright treachery in the past decades.  One wonders if there will ever be a peaceful resolution to \\"The Troubles\\" in Ireland. One wonders further if the players in the capitals of Washington, London and especially Dublin have given up. \\"The IRA\\" does absolutely nothing to dispel that grim notion; in fact it reinforces it. Leon Uris wrote in \\"Ireland A Terrible Beauty\\" that \\"there is no future in Ireland-only the past repeating itself\\".  Those who THINK they are interested in Irish history are better advised to try Coogan's \\"Michael Collins: The Man Who Made Ireland\\" first. Those who KNOW they are so intrigued may tackle this weightier tome-and add stars to the rating above.  At least the Big Fellow's life had a definite beginning, middle and end.	2004-05-07
US	52139358	R9VV9F11JLSM1	1401398251	590874516	Leap of Faith: Memoirs of an Unexpected Life	Books	4	10	15	N	Y	A Pleasant-and unexpected-Surprise.	\\"Leap of Faith\\" was a very pleasant surprise to this reviewer. I picked it up because my wife enjoyed the story, half expecting a mushy \\"girl\\" tale. To describe LOF in that fashion is inaccurate, derogatory to the authoress and unfair to females in general. Queen Noor was born Lisa Halaby, an American of Swedish/Arabic descent. She went to the best schools, was well traveled. She was no ingenue. Lisa was working in the Middle East when she met the then recently divorced King of Jordan. LOF details the Queen's life after her 1978 marriage until the King's death from cancer in 1999.  It must have been terribly difficult for an American woman, even one with Arabic father, to adjust to a new life. She was a highly public figure in a strange land, a stepmother to children form 2 previous marriages and wed to a man who was quite \\"occupied\\" with the affairs of state. Noor skillfully alludes to these problems without dwelling on them or glossing them over. She presents herself as both a sincere, independent woman but a loyal wife as well. The strongest point to LOF is its' perspective on the Israel/ Palestine conflict. Let there be no doubt! Readers get the Muslim viewpoint here! The Queen is not a neutral obersver-nor should she be! Noor was an Arabic monarch and makes no apologies, not that any are due. Noor plainly sees her late husband as an under appreciated moderate, constantly striving for peace. The Queen firmly and fervently makes the case that Israel is the aggressor in the Middle East, has seized far too much Palestinian land and that her leaders (the late Mr. Rabin excepted) are not interested in peace. She takes dead aim at Messrs. Begin and Netanyahu. Virtually every reviewer who gave LOF low rankings seized this point to criticize LOF. This reviewer takes the Queens' side for 3 reasons: 1) She may be correct. 2) Americans need to be exposed to the Arabic view. The Israeli slant is far to dominant in the USA.  Pat Buchanan has labeled this condition the \\"AmenCorner\\".  3) LOF is not history. It is a highly personal memoir from an Arab-American uniquely situated in the heart of the conflict. (Credit to previous reviewer \\"Darleen\\" on that vital point).  LOF has 2 minor weak points: 1) It recounts too much travel, too much coming and going. There are too many high level receptions and state visits. Granted, Noor was a busy woman but too much ink is devoted to these activities. 2) We don't find out what happened to her after her husband died! Is she still Queen? Is she back in the States? How did her husband's succession play out? What are her plans for the future?  She is still a relatively young woman! She still has much too offer the world.  Since portions of LOF are so intense, this reviewer hated to see the story end so vaguely. This reviewer's minor criticisms or those of others on the Arabic/Israeli conflict should deter no one from reading LOF.  This is a fine story of a smart and sensitive lady who chose a difficult and challenging path for herself. She performed a diplomatic balancing act extremely well. She and her biography deserve respect	2004-05-07
US	52139358	R16Y77A2GX03DJ	0312295111	378582857	Michael Collins: The Man Who Made Ireland	Books	5	61	64	N	N	The Big Fellow,indeed!	One cannot understand modern Ireland with no knowledge of Michael Collins. Known as the \\"Big Fellow\\" Collins was the brains and driving force behind Ireland's triumphal revolution of 1916-1921. That struggle led directly to the formation of the Irish Free State and eventually the Irish Republic of today. One has to be careful how he phrases that statement, for Ireland has a long list of her heroes and martyrs. Collins is but one of them but Collins was different! So many others died in vain and became legends in song and story. The Big Fellow was icily prevailing. There are 4 main elements to MC: The first was Collins stunning use of intelligence to thwart the British at their own game. He was always a step ahead of the Brits. He was the most wanted man in Ireland but continually slipped through the hands of his foe. He literally hid in plain sight. The British had no picture of him and didn't know what he looked like! The second was his fearless use of selected assassination. In one night in 1920, his men (the aptly named 12 Apostles) took out 19 British agents! The demised were known as \\"the Cairo Gang'. The third is his uncomfortable role in the thorny peace negotiations with Lloyd George and Winston Churchill. The fourth is the most tragic: The Big Fellow, a \\"Free Stater\\", wanted to accept England's peace offer of a partitioned Ireland as a stepping stone to full independence.  The so- called \\"Republicans\\"; led by the devious Eamon de Valera wanted immediate full independence. A Civil War ensued and the Big Fellow was assassinated. One could argue that author Coogan has a pro-Collins bias. Has Ireland been the same since? MC is a long story, rich in detail. This review has NOT done it justice. This is only a thumbnail's sketch! MC must be patiently read to be fully appreciated. The discipline the reader invests will be rewarded at the conclusion. Most Irish Americans, it is safe to write, have little or no knowledge of their country. If the curious learn of nothing else, they should learn of the one man who made their homeland independent. There have been so many well- intentioned statesmen, poets and martyrs who fell victim to England's treachery and gallows. The curious should read about the one man who really did get the \\"Brits Out\\" of 26/32 of that troubled island.	2004-04-08
US	52139358	R1OT59RE0826ZR	0945167539	170646602	Tailspin: The Strange Case of Major Call	Books	4	4	7	N	N	With a Slight Crediility Gap!	To fully appreciate \\"Tailspin\\", one should probably be familiar with the Sam/Marilyn Sheppard murder case. That would be the same one that spawned \\"The Fugitive\\" TV series. The main character here is an AWOL Air Force Major, Jim Call. Confused? Keep reading! Major Call has a fine military record and a bright military future, with decorations from aerial combat in Korea. When his wife dies, he simply \\"loses it\\", throws away his career and virtually overnight, pursues a life of crime. The author offers a gambling problem as an unsatisfactory explanation for this bizarre decision. Call's life continues it's downward spiral via a series of petty robberies and burglaries in Ohio (!), Massachusetts and in the Adirondack region of upstate New York.  It was in Lake Placid, NY that Call shoots 3 local cops, killing one. He uses his military escape and evasion skills to elude a NY State Police dragnet. He slides all the way to Reno, NV where he finally is busted by an alert local cop for possessing stolen property. All of this action transpires in just 7 months of the year 1954! This brief time span is the heart of \\"Tailspin\\". This reviewer is ignoring Call's combat experience since this is not in the least a military tale. What happens next? One will just have to read \\"Tailspin\\" to find out! A good review doesn't divulge the ending. What makes \\"Tailspin\\" so unique is that there is MORE to the plot! Very briefly Author Conners, a former FBI Agent, proposes that the perpetrator of the Sheppard murder was none other than the AWOL Major Call! The murder supposedly took place during the Ohio portion of the crime spree mentioned above! An exhausting amount of circumstantial evidence is offered in a lengthy addendum to buttress this view. The problem here is that these considerations are in weighty addition to the obviously recreated dialog, restaged scenes and liberally reinterpreted events of the first part of \\"Tailspin\\". Exactly what-and whom- is the reader to believe? Is this True Crime or fiction? As stated above, there is a definite credibility gap here. Were it not for the author's former status as A G-Man, the gap would be wider still. \\"Tailspin\\" is still recommended as long as the reader is not overly concerned with facts. Those who view \\"Tailspin\\" as a fascinating alchemy of fact and fiction should not be disappointed. A final note: The \\"Ann Rule\\" rule is in effect: Some of the photos give away clues. They -and the entire addendum- should be ignored until the reader is done with the main text.	2004-03-24
US	52139358	RHLMAUIG4AKS2	0595180450	144624845	Don't Just Sit There: A True Account of a Frightening Experience and a Self-Help Book for Women	Books	5	3	3	N	N	From A Male Perspective!	Although a heinous crime takes place in DJST, this is not the basic \\"true crime\\" novel. That makes revealing the ending acceptable in a review. This reader was truly gratified that the bad guy got nailed and sent to the slammer. The story line is quite straightforward: The female author, who worked in a Houston bar, is raped late one night upon her return home from work. She was abducted from her own parking lot and driven to a nearby remote location. That one fact may be difficult for a New Yorker to grasp since \\"remote locations\\" here are so scarce. The young lady has the extreme presence of mind to plant evidence (!) in her perpetrator's car. She did so by leaving her prints on a beer bottle and rolling up her panty hose under the passenger seat! How did she stay so calm? She then has the spunk to produce-on her own-WANTED posters of her attacker and distribute them. All the while, she holds her job and maintains as normal a personal life as possible. That is the heartening soul of the story. The bad guy easily falls into the stupid criminal department. He is caught quite quickly, more so, I'm sure, than the typical rapist. It helped that he \\"assisted\\" in his own capture and conviction. Justice in the form of a solid prison sentence follows. This reviewer would add one recommendation, especially for females but they apply to guys as well: NEVER get in a car with an abductor. Fight on the spot but resist at all costs. Scream \\"FIRE!\\" rather than \\"HELP\\" or \\"RAPE\\". That item was NOT intended to second -guess the victim. DJST is an inspiring story of determination and especially steadfastness in the very face of danger.  One does not have to be female to enjoy reading it. This reviewer has the distinct opinion that were he to be in a tight spot, he'd like the calm and collected authoress with him.	2004-03-10
US	52139358	R7364J88GPI45	1572435321	279364768	A Funny Thing Happened On the Way to Cooperstown	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Not Quite!	I had a 3-week gap between the time I finished \\"A Funny Thing\\" and the time I wrote this review. In that interim, my enthusiasm for it cooled considerably. My original impression was that it was a howl- a truly entertaining tale of Major League Baseball in its' finest era. That would be the 15 or so years just after WW2 before free agency and most especially talent thinning expansion begot their dual horrors. But upon reflection, the stories of debauchery and wasted ability simply wore out their welcome. I also tired of reading how Mickey tossed away so many second chances. Even with his original skills dimmed by night life and arm trouble, McDermott had three things in his favor Friends, some residue of talent and a few baseball folks who believed in him. He blew those as well. I was almost angered by how he blew his last chance with the Cardinals in '62 or '63. Johnny Keane was right to dump him. Another minor gripe I had with \\"A Funny Thing\\" is there was no year by year box of McDermott's pitching career, a very rare -and strange-omission for a sports story. Two minor points: the old Senators catcher was Clint \\"Scrap Iron\\" Courtney, not \\"Cliff\\". And the real Yankees \\"Murderers Row\\" played in the 1920s, consisting of Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, Bob Meusel etc. However, I do give the author (or his editor) credit for his referring his readers back or forward to specific pages to recount incidents. Those searching for a solid baseball tale in the same time frame might enjoy \\"Baseball's Natural\\" by John Theodore. It is the story of the late Eddie Waitkus, who also hurt his career immeasurably with his nightlife. At least Eddie was a serious guy and decorated WW2 vet with \\"reasons\\" to drink. Would anyone enjoy \\"A Funny Thing\\"? Perhaps the hardest of hard core Red Sox fans that remember Mickey from his `48-'55 stint with the team.  Sadly, that's about it.	2004-03-10
US	52139358	R2MEBM4ACJY6ED	0738700037	289538697	Grave's End	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Give It A Try!	\\"Graves End\\" is a ghost story! It is set in Brooklyn, New York and takes its' title from the neighborhood of a borough defined by it's neighborhoods. (It real life, it's one word and it's next to Coney Island on the \\"N\\" Train). The story begins as a family buys a house they can barely afford to escape a cramped apartment and a lousy landlord! (What New Yorker can fail to identify?) It quickly becomes obvious that the author, her husband and 2 daughters have some \\"unwanted company\\". The house is haunted by what may only be described as \\"previous tenants\\". Fortunately, the spirits are relatively benign! The author is far more affected by the spirits than other family members are. Her soon to be former husband is a skeptic. Her 2 daughters bear up amazingly well and even feel sympathy ( !) for the ghosts. What happens? One will just have to read GE to find out, though the back cover almost spills the beans. There are some minor weak points to GE.  Author Elaine Mercado is not a professional writer and has no apparent hopes of being one, so lapses are forgiven.  For example, incidents constantly repeat themselves and family matters needlessly intrude.  Even the resolution is surprisingly unexciting. Yet this reviewer's final judgement is to give Mercado a pass. She writes with tenacity, good humor and sincerity. And any decent true to life ghost tale deserves a second look. A final good word for GE is it's relative brevity. It is only 170+ pages; set in fairly large typeface One should approach the issue of ghosts and spirits with an open mind.  The opinion here is to approach \\"Graves End\\" in a similar fashion. Many other amazon folks seem to like GE. There must be a reason for the popularity.	2004-02-17
US	52139358	R25FLP7VPSDSN9	0425192075	449600529	A Deadly Secret: The Strange Disappearance Of Kathie Durst (Berkley True Crime)	Books	2	3	6	N	Y	Ultimately, a disappointment.	\\"A Deadly Secret\\" is deceptive.  Fair warning: There is much less of substance here than meets the eye! The main focus is on the 1982 disappearance of Kathie Durst.  She was married to Robert Durst, son of a highly prominent and extremely wealthy New York City real estate tycoon. Kathie's family, most of her friends, the investigating police officers in 2 New York counties and indeed (it is safe to presume), most readers of \\"DS\\" think her husband murdered her. The main problem the scenario is that the investigation has gone nowhere! While one should keep political opinions out of book reviews, that is not possible in this case. To fully appreciate the scope of DS, readers need to be aware of the ENORMOUS political clout the real estate Lords have in New York State. Their power is awesome! In this reviewer's opinion that power had to have affected how vigorously Durst was investigated. It is hard to point fingers since Kathy disappeared in one jurisdiction (Westchester County) but reported missing -by her husband (!) -in another county (New York County better known as Manhattan).  Neither District Attorney has pursued the case. Author Birkbeck plainly has an egregiously low opinion of the highly ambitious, Republican, headline seeking Westchester DA.  This reviewer believes his opinion is both justified and substantiated.  The septuagenarian Manhattan DA, a Democrat and son of FDR's Treasury Secretary,has held his position with dignity for over 30 years and whatever his possible failings is not interested in higher office. Rest assured, entrenched as the 2 are, neither wishes to offend the rich and powerful. With the New York investigations at a standstill, Birkbeck would have had no story except Robert became a murder suspect in other localities! One was Los Angeles, where an old female friend of his was shot to death. The second was Galveston, Texas where a chopped up body was found floating in Galveston Bay. Durst was the prime suspect! Blending the missing Kathie, the floating body parts, her circle of friends, her family, those who pretend to be her friends, the dead body in L.A., interesting Galveston characters, 3 hardworking cops in 3 police jurisdictions, plus the 2 aforementioned DAs, Birkbeck patches together his tale. Even with all these elements, it is not enough to produce one that is ultimately cohesive. This may the only true crime story where one has to literally surf the web to close the circle. (HINT: Search under Robert Durst\\"). And be prepared!  DS left an unpleasant taste with this reviewer. I felt manipulated, used and deceived. Granted there were moments of interest. Given the cast of characters there had to be, but DS ends with a crashing letdown. DS is only recommended for the hardest of hardcore true crime aficionados. A final thought: The \\"Ann Rule rule\\" is suspended! Not only do the centerfold photos not reveal the ending, they reveal absolutely nothing. This reviewer acknowledges that the author worked hard on DS. But there are simply too many loose ends to elevate it to first class true crime status. Hopefully, future editions and reprints may change that.	2004-02-13
US	52139358	R2D592QOGOJ6ZA	0380699427	780048428	The Raid	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	An  Heroic Mission!	First published in 1976, \\"The Raid\\" is the story of the heroic attempt to rescue 61 Americans from the North Vietnamese POW camp at Son Tay in November, 1970. It is thoroughly and meticulously researched. Its' 3 reprints attest to the quality. Author Schemmer had some obvious command cooperation in its' compilation.  \\"The Raid\\" devotes more effort -and pages- in depicting the painstaking step by step preparation and practice that was dedicated to the rescue than the actual time on the ground. That is understandable, since the mission lasted less than 30 minutes. The camp was empty and no one was rescued! The author examines the intelligence \\"considerations' behind that unpleasant fact. More time and space is given to the inevitable damage control that the Pentagon and White House had to tackle. That easy to appreciate as well, given the frantic antiwar feelings in this country at the time.  The raid took place less than 4 months after our troops were withdrawn from Cambodia. That incursion had sparked huge domestic protests. There are three outstanding traits to this tale: The first is the obvious bravery and courage shown by the men involved. The second is the sheer amount of logistical support and inter -service coordination that the effort required. There is an impressive array of those Command acronyms. As any veteran would rightly suspect, there was a bit of infighting as well. I appreciated reading that General Ryan, Air Force Chief of Staff, gave an open letter to some of the chief planners directing they receive complete \\"no questions asked\\" cooperation. Those who felt unable to comply were to call the General directly! How many calls do we think Ryan received? Finally, we the author incorporates the human beings who were the actual prisoners. We read of some of the more distinguished, such as Robinson Risner and Jerimiah Denton as well as those not as famous but who suffered as much and more. \\"The Raid\\" is almost a mini-history of the POW saga-one that extends to this very day. Over 1,800 men remain unaccounted for. Some claimed the raid to be a failure. It strikes this reviewer as an outstanding success. That's because after Son Tay, most POWs were consolidated into the big Hanoi area prisons. There was safety-not to mention a command structure-in numbers. Treatment improved, especially since many prisoners could help themselves. This reviewer would like to compliment President Nixon and Defense Secretary Laird for supporting a military action they knew would be unpopular and suspected might be unsuccessful. Canceling the operation would have been the easy way out; they courageously chose the difficult course. To this day, Mr. Nixon remains the only Chief Executive to seriously address the POW issue. Those buying \\"The Raid\\" should strongly consider Frank Anton's \\"Why Didn't You Get Me Out?\\" It's time frame perfectly complements Mr. Schemmer's tale. Finally, there is the virtual Bible on the subject, \\"Code Name Bright Light\\". That may be a lot of reading but what subject is more worthwhile?	2004-01-25
US	52139358	R2I6F3OD6C6ID0	0809324504	167652409	Baseball's Natural: The Story of Eddie Waitkus (Writing Baseball)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Sign Him Up!!	Here is a first rate baseball story, albeit with a limited audience. \\"Baseball's Natural\\" is the story of Eddie Waitkus, who played first base for the Cubs, Phillies and Orioles from 1941 and 1946-1955. That 3 year WW2 break is significant. Many believe that the period after the War to 1960 was a golden age for Major League Baseball. Those were the years of the (pre-expansion) original 16 teams. The NFL was just coming out of the shadows. The NBA and NHL were minor sports by comparison. To appreciate BN, it helps to remember that period, even if one is not familiar with Waitkus.  Eddie was a slick fielder and above average hitter with a bright future. He was intelligent, popular off the field, well-spoken and an inquisitive, well-dressed young man. Then, one night in June of '48, he visited a woman in a Chicago hotel room and was shot! He recovered from the physical wounds but not from the mental ones. Somehow the dual demons of the shooting and his WW2 experiences drove him slowly to drink. He was a quiet drunk, not a rowdy one. He hung out in nice bars. His downward slide was slow, almost imperceptible, but just as real. Waitkus was out of baseball by 1955. He never found a second career and was dead by the age of 53. Why is \\"Baseball's Natural\\" worthwhile? Because it is a sensitive tale that grabs the reader's interest and holds it. It is a quick reading story. It is also quite well researched, with a wide range of supporting interviews and photographs. Many baseball books deal with the established stars; it's nice to read one that features an average guy. And because we sense that many players must have their own private demons that are invisible to the even the most devoted fan. At the time of this review, Baseball is officially in \\"hot stove\\" season, a perfect time to give \\"Baseball's Natural\\" a tryout.	2004-01-24
US	52139358	RZCSF83MF4D94	0394720954	741344123	Master Of The Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson	Books	3	9	17	N	Y	Caro Needs An Editor!-2	\\"Master of the Senate\\" is Robert Caro's third volume on the life of former President Lyndon Johnson. It encompasses Johnson's years in the Senate, from 1949 to early 1960.  During most of those years, LBJ was either Minority Leader or Majority Leader of that body.  Significantly, MOS does not cover the 1960 presidential campaign.  Those curious as to how close LBJ came to the 1960 Democratic nomination for President or why JFK chose him as his running mate must wait for the fourth and final Caro volume.  There are indeed high points to MOS: Like the author's previous efforts, the story is long, deep in detail, exhaustively researched rich in historical perspective/portraits and pulls no punches. Readers will receive a detailed, insider's view of the legislative process. The wheeling and dealing, horse trading, intimidation, pleading, vote trading, vote changing, lying, cruelty, threats and outright career destruction are all laid bare. So too are the often-arcane senatorial procedures and parliamentary tactics that LBJ perfected. In fact, LBJ expertly used all the tactics above. Caro also delves deeply into the \\"Southern Problem\\". That refers to the 25 or so Senators from the Old Confederacy who stood hard and fast against Government activism, especially any attempt to pass Civil Rights legislation.  As a negative bloc, the Old Southerners could and did paralyze the Senate. Caro is tough on this group and deservedly so! Their leader was Richard Russell of Georgia, who Caro elevates to the second most important character in MOS. Throughout the pages of MOS, LBJ shadow boxes with Russell. LBJ can't afford to appear too liberal, for fear of alienating Russell, but he must be sufficiently progressive to satisfy his liberal wing, led by such stalwarts of Paul Douglas of Illinois and Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota. To be the 1960 Democratic nominee, LBJ had to satisfy both wings of his party.  All of the dancing above climaxes in the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1957.This severely watered down bill gave blacks the right to vote in all (then) 48 states, but little else. Caro reports that the Republican Vice President -one Richard Nixon- was de facto a stronger supporter of Civil Rights than LBJ but received no credit for his stance. Interestingly, a young Massachusetts Senator-one John F. Kennedy-is a minor character in MOS. LBJ thought JFK was too \\"sickly\\" to be President.  Would time have proven him correct? There are also problems to MOS but the bottom line is that it is too long- way too long. Full disclosure: I borrowed the headline above from a previous reviewer, one Ms.VanAllan from Texas. She very appropriately called for an EDITOR! Does anyone do actual editing anymore?  I further agree with Ms. VanAllan that 200 pages could easily have been deleted from the final text. For example, how many times does the intelligent reader need to be reminded of the \\"Southern problem\\", the Southern Blocs attitude toward Civil Rights, the lugubrious pace of the Senate or LBJ need to shadow box with Senator Russell? How many trips back to that ranch in the Texas Hill Country must we suffer through? Some of the \\"ancient history\\"of the Senate could also have been dispensed with. My guess is that the author has become 1) either obsessed with his writing/research of LBJ or 2) vastly too self-indulgent. This reviewer once took a class on the films of the great movie director, Billy Wilder (\\"Some Like It Hot\\", \\"Double Indemnity\\"). The leader told us that as Wilder became increasingly self-indulgent in his later years, no one in Hollywood would stand up to him and his last movies suffered as a result. The opinion from this perspective is that Caro is similarly guilty. No editor or publishing executive will discipline him. 2 closing thoughts: There were 13 states that seceded from the Union and formed the Confederacy, not 11 as the author repeatedly (!) states. Finally, judging by previous reviews, it takes many readers some time to plow through MOS. Readers may wish to spring for the extra $$ and buy this book in hardcover. My (paper) cover was in sad shape when I finally completed the long and winding road that led to the finish line of MOS.	2004-01-01
US	52139358	R27O3HC7KMADKM	1565117972	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them: A Fair and Balanced Look at the Right	Books	5	5	13	N	Y	On Principle Only!	There is no doubt about it: Author Franken is preaching to the choir. \\"Lying Liars\\" is for the converted, not for the politically curious. Franken takes dead and frequently deadly aim at the right wing media and the conservative Republicans who are so shamelessly taking over this country for their own selfish aims. The trouble with \\"LL\\" is that those of us who oppose the Bushes, Cheneys, Ashcrofts and O'Reillys of the world have heard and read these accusations and verbal thrusts before. They are regularly on the airwaves/pages of responsible media like CNN and The New York Times. But folks like Maureen Dowd and Thomas Friedman express themselves vastly better than does Franken. \\"LL\\" has a fault common to too many current books: It is poorly edited, often meandering, full of digressions and side channels that dilute its' message. It often reads as if rushed to print. As an admitted member of the \\"choir\\", I'm afraid it will take much more than a few \\"Lying Liars\\" to marshal the forces necessary to take this country back again. \\"LL\\" is but one way station on a long road back to political sanity. The 5 star rating is on General Principles only. For substance, sensible folks will have to keep searching.	2003-11-22
US	52139358	R1M78PYZ9TTVQQ	1840184264	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The Amazing True Story of the Youngest and Most Daring Con Man in the History of Fun and Profit	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Something is Fishy!	\\"Catch Me If You Can\\" is a surprisingly depressing tale. Due to the relative popularity of the movie, many know the plot: A young high school dropout, Frank Abagnale, far \\"older\\", wiser and street smart than his years impersonates a pilot of the dearly departed Pan American Airways. An expert, self -taught identity forger and con man par excellence he uses his fake Pan Am ID as a base to cash millions of dollars in phony checks. He goes on to impersonate a phony pediatrician, fake college professor and pseudo lawyer. I may have left a phony profession out. Whatever it was, Mr. Abegnale is a fraud. If he were a happy go lucky fellow or at least an average but desperate nice guy, a reader could route for or identify with him. But since almost no one has his absurdly high level of cunning and conning, what is there to identify with? He came across as a miserable, unhappy guy, always one step ahead of the law. In the interests of never revealing an ending, all this reviewer can report is that Abegnale is fingered in France by a former flight attendant. Does he repay his debt to several societies around the world? Read \\"CMIYC\\" and find out but not on this recommendation. Some guys are just too slick and too quick and too cool for their own good. The main character of \\"CMIYC\\" is one of them.	2003-11-22
US	52139358	RLNVUACC9P3KN	014043755X	199196338	The Prisoner of Zenda and Rupert of Hentzau (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	1	14	N	Y	The Cover Tells the Whole Story!!	I'm surprised no other reviewer noticed! Why did Penquin place Ronald Colman and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. prominently on the cover? In this reviewer's opinion, they must secretly realize that the wonderful 1937 classic film vastly outshines the printed word. I found the  story to be poorly written and hard to follow. Its' style is too formal, too flowery and too wordy! If I had not seen (both) versions of the film, I could not have followed the \\"action\\". I constantly referred back to mental images of the movie to orientate myself. A review of \\"PZ\\" boils down to a basic truth: While most agree that the book is usually superior, occasionally the movie wins out. \\"PZ\\" is a prime example. (\\"Strangers on a Train\\" is another!). As for the so -called sequel, \\"Rupert of Hentzau\\"- don't even bother, unless you are an Anthony Hope fanatic. Reviewing the book makes one appreciate-once again- that wonderful film fadeout as Ronald Colman rides off over the hill. Since it happens to be available on amazon, click on the movie reviews. Therein will lie the essence of the wonderful adventure story of \\"The Prisoner of Zenda\\".	2003-11-22
US	52139358	R320JDB4GD1JYC	0425189988	908464747	Lusitania: An Epic Tragedy	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	A Bit Too Deep?	A German U-boat off the coast of Ireland torpedoed the British Cunard Line's \\"Lusitania\\" on May 7, 1915. Approximately 1200 lives were lost.  Diana Preston''s tale \\"Lusitania: An Epic Tragedy\\"is an extensively detailed report on the events of that day.<BR>Little of note is unreported here. We learn much about the ship itself from its' history, its' state rooms, and its' prominent passengers to the meal preparations to the quantities of water and coal it consumed. The political events leading up to WWI are covered, including the tug and pull in the U.S. between the doves and hawks of the day. Secretary of State William Jennings Bryan was the principal opponent of war. For the record, the German government issued an unmistakably clear message that British ships sailing through the British Isles were military targets.  As the ship founders, we follow eyewitness accounts of on board heroism and cowardice as some passengers and crew rise to the occasion. Others are shamefully selfish. Many survivors struggle in the waters of St. George's Channel, still cold in early May. Unexplained is the mystery of the delayed rescue effort from the Irish shore, even though the Lusitania went down in site of land! The heroism/cowardice scenes are replayed as crowded lifeboats refuse to take on desperate swimmers in the water. Preston's reports of the after the fact investigations are mostly satisfying but some stones are left unturned. There is ample evidence that some sort of wartime secrecy prevented the Brits from asking too many painful questions. The head of the investigatory board, Lord Mersey,  also led the inquiry of the \\"Titanic\\" sinking of 1912. The skipper of that vessel was found blameless despite sailing too fast- at night- in iceberg country! Preston's opines only that a vague charge of \\"contributory negligence\\" could be leveled at the British Admiralty for not providing a naval escort through wartime waters or not ordering Skipper Turner to zigzag at maximum speed. Preston does report the facts that the vessel was not carrying Canadian combat troops or live ammunition. There was, she further reports, no second torpedo. In great detail we learn that the critical secondary explosion must have been due to ruptured steam line. Notably unexplained is Winston Churchill's blood curdling remark that the sinking and \\"dead babies\\" were worth several divisions of troops as propaganda value! This reviewer was most bothered from learning that the ship held no (!) lifeboat drills, assigned no lifeboat stations and had no lifejacket donning lessons. This was inexcusable for a British ship in designated combat waters, in wartime, only 3 years after the Titanic tragedy. Scores perished due to improperly worn life vests! Finally Preston delves into the angst in Berlin as the higher ups in the German government wrestle with their military leaders about U-boat tactics. LET's strength is also its' weakness. It's long! 53 pages of sources and notes attest to that. History lovers who relish detail will be right at home between the pages. Those who prefer their reading to be more concise should be disappointed. As a warning to the latter group, 4 stars are awarded. The former group can add back the 5th star. Anyone thinking of buying LET should recognize that this is not solely an accident investigation or stirring rescue report but a very broad and deep retelling of a tragic incident hat helped greatly in propelling the United States in to the maelstrom of World war I.  The Lusitania tragedy was unique, as were the sinkings of the Andrea Doria and Titanic. Authoress Preston has certainly done her homework in bringing the distinctive details of this maritime disaster to life.	2003-10-20
US	52139358	R3JE6WUIOXAQNW	0425188671	89043645	Everybody Pays	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Limited geographical appeal	\\"Everybody Pays\\" is the tale of two families.  One is that of Harry Aleman, a heavy hitter in the Chicago mob. Here in New York City, he'd be called a \\"capo\\". The other family is that of one Bob Lowe. The fates of the two families intersected one night in the Fall of 1972 when Bob was an eyewitness to a rubout in his neighborhood. Harry was the hitman.  Against his family's judgement, Bob agreed to testify at trial  The story that follows is a sad one: Prosecutors are not completely straight with Bob. His family's life in a witness protection program was a disaster. It was painful just reading about it. One can imagine the daily struggle of living through it. The trial of Aleman is a second disaster. He was acquitted in a juryless trial. The judge had been bribed! Therein lies the best part of EP. The sheer cynical nature of the Chicago \\"justice system\\" is laid bare with crooked cops, jaded State's Attorneys, judges bought and sold, with shadowy \\"operators\\" greasing palms. There was a second arrest of Aleman and yet a new trial. This reviewer will end at this point in the interest of not divulging the ending. The opinion here is that EP will be better received by Midwestern readers. Eastern folks have their own criminals. And while the authors have done first rate research in composing EP, this reviewer was left with a deflated feeling at the conclusion. Others may disagree. Midwest folks and especially those in Chicagoland can safely skip over this review, adding 2 stars to the rating above. They will best appreciate the local \\"flavor\\". The rest of the world of amazon is cautioned! An interesting closing note: EP has NO(!)centerfold photos. This reviewer usually advises skipping over them since they frequently divulge endings. It is just as well. Readers will quickly realize that Mr. Lowe will not want his picture displayed anywhere, much less in a popular true crime story.	2003-10-08
US	52139358	R14VRIIJZQBXJN	0688158927	830457003	The Black Box: All-New Cockpit Voice Recorder Accounts Of In-flight Accidents	Books	1	4	22	N	Y	Bland and disappointing.	Full disclosure: This reviewer is prejudiced! He hates air travel in general. In particular he dislikes airports, airlines, airplanes, flight personnel, the so called \\"food\\" and virtually anything and everything connected with air travel. For good measure, I just had a very unpleasant encounter with a rude flight attendant from a certain airline based in Minneapolis. I was all set for an expose ripping the industry for unsafe practices, sloppy maintenance, money grubbing from Washington and a host of other sins real and imagined. What I received instead was a disappointingly bland report of cockpit recordings from troubled airliners in flight.  Many of these flights crashed with great loss of life, others somehow survived their ordeals. In virtually all of the 28 incidents, I was unmoved. Even the transcripts of the Valuejet crash into the Everglades and the Challenger Space tragedy left me unimpressed. (Other reviewers have hinted that some of the latter was \\"reconstructed\\").  The one exception was the final episode concerning the heroic efforts of the crew of United 232, which crashed in Sioux City, Iowa with many survivors. As well as being unmoved by the second hand reporting of these events, I agree with the reviewer from Dublin who felt somehow \\"soiled\\" by these proceedings. BB reminded me of old movies of cars going off a cliff. Finally, I have to disagree with the author's statement on page X in the introduction: \\"The airline industry is constantly striving to make air travel safer\\" This reviewer believes in the precise opposite. The industry, aided and abetted by a cowed FAA, is cutting every maintenance corner it can to save $$. I believe there is a dark side to this business that goes unreported both on the pages of BB-and elsewhere.  BB is nonetheless recommended for pilots, airplane buffs and similar folk. \\"Ordinary\\" people looking for an exciting saga will doubtless be disappointed.	2003-10-08
US	52139358	R3ME8R7PPGNX2P	1563525267	516409071	The Devil, Me, and Jerry Lee	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	The Killer-ess	There is no question about it: \\"The Devil, Me and Jerry Lee\\" is entertaining and fast reading. The author is the younger sister of Jerry Lee Lewis. It is for those of us that already appreciate the Killer. Folks who don't know who \\"The Killer\\" is should stop reading this review now. The faithful will be treated to a tale of life on the road and a little on the wild side of Jerry Lee. There are few surprises for those familiar with Lewis' past. His up and down career is covered form the mid -1950s at Sun Records in Memphis until the \\"present day\\". It's a bit foggy, perhaps intentionally so, as to what the Killer is doing right now. To quote the trailer in the movie \\"Great Balls of Fire\\" `he is probably playing his heart out-somewhere'. DMJL also tells the tale of the author's own strange career both on and off stage. The details of the latter are frank, earthy and mostly believable. (As to the former, it's a mystery: What \\"career\\" did Linda Gail have?Billboard credits her with 2 chart hits.) They are delivered in a take me or leave me fashion, just the way her big brother would want. The author has a definite manipulative charm to her, a trait she no doubt shares with her sibling. I am certain her 8 husbands could attest to that! The bottom line is that DMJL is recommended for Lewis fans only. The story won't win any new ones. Any serious country fan should possess at least one Killer CD. Amazon has several available! Jerry Lee is an entertainer one has to listen to, not merely read about. As for his little sister, she wore me down:  5 stars.	2003-09-29
US	52139358	R23WBKA81SD8SZ	185532458X	778320554	Little Big Horn 1876: Custer's Last Stand (Campaign)	Books	5	34	35	N	Y	A Fine Overview	Peter Panzeri's \\"Little Big Horn 1876 \\" presents a good solid portrayal of Custer's Last Stand. There are several high points to the author's work: The background to that fateful day is ably drawn indeed. We know why both sides met in Southeast Montana when they did. The replay of troop movements on both sides is presented well without losing the reader in detail. There are several good photos of the main characters, personalizing them. Most significantly, the MAPS are excellent. So many military books pay little or no heed to them. The maps here are of first rate full color quality. They are so good that LBH warrants 5 stars on this aspect alone! If LBH has a weak spot, it lies in the absence of any after the battle analysis. A chapter of Monday morning quarterbacking would have been the perfect complement to Mr. Panzeri's efforts. Since we now know that there were survivors from this battle, at least from Major Reno's and Captain Benteen's commands, opinions must abound on the engagement. This omission is insufficient to lowering the ranking of LBH. The maps save the day! REVIEWER'S NOTE: Since submitting this review to amazon, I have gone to Montana and visited the scene. It's impressive! The key point is to underscore the sheer size of the battle area.It's big!! One can quickly appreciate how hard it could have been for Benteen and Reno to come to Custer's aide. With the rolling hills,maybe they did not even see him. In any event the site is right off I 90 and close to the pleasant town of Billings, MT. Now I'm searching for another Custer story. A visit to LBH definitely enhances the printed word!	2003-09-13
US	52139358	R3EDWZJOHENPQO	078671137X	894576619	A Soldier's Best Friend: Scout Dogs and Their Handlers in the Vietnam War	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Clipper Would Appove!	\\" A Soldier?s Best Friend\\"is about John Burnham\\"s experience as a Scout Dog handler for the 25th Infantry Division in Vietnam.  This review drops the \\"Master Sergeant\\" from his name because he writes as a \\"short timer\\" enlisted man, not as the career non- commissioned officer he became.  SBF is a 3 -part tale. The lst concerns the author?s original tour in Vietnam as an infantryman with the First Air Cavalry Division, known to vets as \\"The Cav\\". He is wounded, medevaced to Japan and reassigned to Okinawa. Thanks to the vagaries of the Army personnel system, he is assigned as an \\"OJT\\" guard dog handler around a Chemical Warfare dump. His time on that island is the 2nd segment.  The 3rd part concerns Burnham?s return to Vietnam-after he re-enlists for another combat tour to get away from the chemical dump. (Stranger things have happened! This reviewer knew a guy who reupped for the 173rd Airborne in Vietnam because he was miserable in Wurzburg, Germany!) Burnham becomes a Scout Dog handler with the 25th.  A handler and his German Shepherd almost always walked point in the field. They were the lead in the line of march and therefore highly vulnerable. Scout Dogs searched for trip wires, mines and other booby traps, injured GIs and sensed Viet Cong laying in ambush.  They saved thousands of Americans casualties. The author himself acknowledges that without his main dog, Clipper, he would be another name on The Wall in Washington DC. This reviewer has not read a combat tale where I felt as close to the ground as in SBF. The author has a very simple and direct style that takes the reader right to the core of a patrol. I loved the recounting of Clipper zigging left, zagging right, dutifully leading a platoon around a series of booby traps. Small wonder that handlers said they felt safer with a good dog than another GI!  SBF ends sadly as Burnham is forced to leave his buddy Clipper behind in Vietnam. Their final parting is wrenching to read. Unlike the Korea and WW2 conflicts, the US military forbade repatriation of dogs when a handler's tour was over.  They were left behind for the \\"duration\\" or until they were killed. Their fate had to be cruel as Vietnamese regarded dogs as a source of food, not pets. The Appendix lists the 288 dogs killed in action as well as the 285 handlers who made the ultimate sacrifice. SBF is highly recommended for its' very personal look at one soldier's combat experience. It is further recommend for yet another unique look at the Vietnam War that affected so many of us. Just when one thinks he has heard every Vietnam story possible, along comes a book like SBF to show that he hasn?t. If the book has a weak spot, it is a common one: NOT ONE SINGLE MAP! Why do publishers constantly make this omission? This merits a reduction in rank for SBF from 5 stars to 4. That complaint aside, SBF rates \\"Number One\\"	2003-08-31
US	52139358	R2DVKUZMKJJH49	0451527623	439617492	The Scarlet Pimpernel (Signet Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Try the Movie AND the Book!	Too many of my amazon friends have given up or strongly hinted at the ending to this classic tale. This reviewer will try to avoid that trap. Set in England at the time of the French Revolution, \\"The Scarlet Pimpernel\\" features a brave Englishman who rescues French nobility from a certain date with the guillotine. Back home, the Brit is not taken seriously, usually described as \\"foppish\\". Across the Channel in France, he is the bravest guy around, carrying out daring rescues in a variety of disguises. Oh, those disguises! And that is all this reviewer will divulge! Those whose curiosity is whetted will just have to buy SP and read it. Though a bit florid, SP is fast reading, exciting and thoroughly enjoyable! A word on the movie version(s) seems required: The standard is the 1934 release with Leslie Howard as the SP, Merle Oberon as his wife, Lady Blakeley, and (in the \\"Prisoner of Zenda\\" tradition), Raymond Massey as the French agent, Chauvelin. There is a bad guy if ever there was one! The 1934 movie does NOT closely follow the book. Marguerite, Lady B, is vastly more prominent in print. That settled, enjoy SP in print or video. As is usually the case, the book wins but both are excellent entertainment in their own right. Isn't it poetic that Mr. Howard met his tragic real life demise as a British secret agent in WW2? Wouldn't Melanie have been proud of him?	2003-08-21
US	52139358	R22N5HJO6IALY9	0451404025	494376743	Murderer with a Badge: The Secret Life of a Rogue Cop (True Crime)	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	Good job but looooong!	Those familiar with Author Humes know that his stories are lengthy and detailed.  \\"Murderer with A Badge\\" is no exception.  The central character is Bill Leasure, a quiet, mild mannered, unassuming Los Angeles traffic cop.  Outwardly, he could put in his 20 years, qualify for a pension and quietly pass from the scene. That is the picture Leasure would paint for the public. His accusers in the DA's office and LAPD would present a different portrayal.  They believe that Officer Leasure is guilty of arranging murder, committing murder, a WIDE range of burglaries, possession of stolen goods and even adultery. The formal charges against Leasure are extensive with many charges,incidents, witnesses, and accomplices to sort through. They were so extensive that several hard core low life criminals were granted immunity to testify against him. How the author, the trial judge, the District Attorney and the defense counsel kept the real life maze of facts, truths, lies, contradictions and witnesses straight are a wonder. MWB is a complicated tale and very challenging for the average reader. This reviewer admits to simply losing track toward the end. Author Humes still does a wonderful job of trying to make sense of it all but in truth MWB could easily have been compressed into a shorter story. The ending is somewhat muddled but so are many true crime resolutions. Life is like that and MWB is no exception.  Please note that this reviewer did not reveal the ending, as did at least one reviewer below.   MWB is a 5 star tale with one deducted for its' extensive length. It is arguable whethet even hard core true crime mavens would add back the fifth star. Two closing notes: 1) I purchased MWB \\"used\\". Amazon and the previous owner handled the transaction from a previous owner. 2) The \\"Ann Rule rule\\" can be suspended for MWB. The centerfold pictures are not giveaways to the ending and may actually assist in sorting out the action and characters.	2003-07-27
US	52139358	R2JWM0AVXW7CNQ	0451404025	494376743	Murderer with a Badge: The Secret Life of a Rogue Cop (True Crime)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Good job but looooong!	Those familiar with Author Humes know that his stories are lengthy and detailed.  \\"Murderer with A Badge\\" is no exception.  The central character is Bill Leasure, a quiet, mild mannered, unassuming Los Angeles traffic cop.  Outwardly, he could put in his 20 years, qualify for a pension and quietly pass from the scene. That is the picture Leasure would paint for the public. His accusers in the DA's office and LAPD would present a different portrayal.  They believe that Officer Leasure is guilty of arranging murder, committing murder, a WIDE range of burglaries, possession of stolen goods and even adultery. The formal charges against Leasure are extensive with many charges,incidents, witnesses, and accomplices to sort through. They were so extensive that several hard core low life criminals were granted immunity to testify against him. How the author, the trial judge, the District Attorney and the defense counsel kept the real life maze of facts, truths, lies, contradictions and witnesses straight are a wonder. MWB is a complicated tale and very challenging for the average reader. This reviewer admits to simply losing track toward the end. Author Humes still does a wonderful job of trying to make sense of it all but in truth MWB could easily have been compressed into a shorter story. The ending is somewhat muddled but so are many true crime resolutions. Life is like that and MWB is no exception.  Please note that this reviewer did not reveal the ending, as did at least one reviewer below.   MWB is a 5 star tale with one deducted for its' extensive length. It is arguable whethet even hard core true crime mavens would add back the fifth star. Two closing notes: 1) I purchased MWB \\"used\\". Amazon.com and the previous owner handled the transaction quite capably. 2) The \\"Ann Rule rule\\" can be suspended for MWB. The centerfold pictures are not giveaways to the ending and may actually assist in sorting out the action and characters.	2003-07-27
US	52139358	R2I6O5VJUPE9CC	1887896325	140963128	Navajo Weapon: The Navajo Code Talkers	Books	1	15	27	N	N	Lifeless	&quot;Navajo Weapon&quot; is the story of the approximately 380 tribesmen utilized by the United States Marine Corps for a special World War 2 project.  That project was to deliver vital encoded communications in combat during the war in the Pacific. These Marines used a special code-their very own language-which the Japanese were unable to break. NW follows these Native Americans from their initial recruitment through boot camp at Camp Pendleton, CA to the island by island campaign against Japan. All the major combat sites are covered: Guadalcanal, Bougainville, Saipan, Guam, Iwo Jima, Okinawa etc. This reviewer would have been happy to report that NW is a stirring, gripping, action packed tale of patriotic Native American men in combat. It is not. NW is wafer thin, almost antiseptic in tone. One could very accurately state that it takes distant, arms length approach. With the exception of the pages devoted to Iwo Jima, no excitement is generated. One wonders if the author has any familiarity with the military, if only in peacetime. The maps are virtually useless (as they all too frequently are in such books), the photos are too small and the frequent &quot;notes&quot; serve no apparent purpose.  One could further wonder, perhaps cynically, if the true force behind NW was a government grant given to authors who write about Native Americans. This negative review is in NO WAY meant to be disrespectful to the Navajos who served their country so bravely either in the Marines or any other branch. The bottom line is that NW fails to tell their story in the lively fashion that it deserves. Perhaps a future author will emerge to do just that.	2003-07-08
US	52139358	R1QJG5YAG70KBR	039952651X	8173620	Movie Awards: The Ultimate Unofficial GT Oscars gldn Globes Critics GuildHonors	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A Perfect Handbook	Thomas O'Neil's &quot;Movie Awards&quot; is an absolutely no lose purchase for even a casual movie maven. Serious movie fans should be enthralled. It's all here-all the important awards from 1927-1999. Listed are such disparate grantors as the New York Film Critics, the Writer's Guild, the Screen Actors Guild, the Directors Guild, the Golden Globes and the Academy Awards.<br />Trivia and solid information alike abounds. This reviewer was shocked-shocked!-to read that &quot;The Searchers&quot; was nominated for NO awards in 1956. The pages devoted to 1969 make no mention of the Hollywood aphorism that John Wayne received that year's Best Actor Oscar (for &quot;True Grit&quot;) to make up for being bypassed in 1956. The entire cast and Director of &quot;The Searchers&quot; was ignored! I also learned that Clark Gable did not win the Oscar for &quot;Gone With the Wind&quot; and that Tex Ritter's theme to &quot;High Noon&quot; won an Oscar in 1952. I still believe that is the best of the themes because it was an integral part of the actual movie. A trivia section informs us that Walter Brennan won the most Academy Awards for an actor (though not for &quot;My Darling Clementine&quot;) and William Friedkin was the youngest Director to an Oscar. For which movie? Buy the book and check page 767. The very fact that there IS a page 767 indicates that this work cannot be devoured at one or two sittings. This is a thick handbook to be appreciated over a span of time as we watch those old classics one by one. Maybe when I read the section on 1949, I will learn why &quot;The Third Man' got 0 Oscar nominations and why the entire cast of &quot;A Letter to 3 Wives&quot; went similarly empty handed. I can't wait.	2003-07-02
US	52139358	R1YL2BO5BAKSZE	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Be sure to read in the &quot;right' order.	This observer was about to prepare a dismissive 3 star review of &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; wondering how it attained bestseller status. I was ready to state that the authoress allocated too much space on coda. I felt that too many pages were given to background of owners, trainers, and jockeys-not to mention horses. Then a funny thing happened. I read the back of the book interview with Laura Hillenbrand and my perspective changed completely. Those 13 pages change everything! So this is the recommendation from this quarter: Buy SB BUT start after page 299 and read till the end. Then -and only then -go back and read forward from the preface.  Those who do should realize why SB is so popular and why Ms. Hillenbrand is so worthy of respect as a researcher, an author and a person. With hindsight, this is a wonderful story. I just hope the forthcoming movie will do SB justice but I'm not holding my breath on that score.	2003-07-02
US	52139358	R31C9HJK21UF55	0312970307	655815304	Burned Alive: A Shocking True Story of Betrayal, Kidnapping, and Murder (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Shocking, simply shocking.	\\"Burned Alive\\" is the most shocking true crime tale this reviewer has read. It tells the story of a crime that badly needs solving with an incarceration of the guilty. On solely those two factors, BA is a success. A young woman named Kim is the victim of a kidnapping gone awry.  When a sloppily delivered ransom message does not go through, the perps panic and Kim is murdered by literally being torched alive. BA's high points are Kim's father's zeal to solve the crime and the painstaking efforts of the New York City homicide detectives to close the crime. They follow endless leads, sifting facts, interviewing, delving through phone logs and wearing out shoe leather. We learn how the cops interrogate -sometimes bluffing that they know more than they do. The perps know the game and play it back-as best they can. BA has weak points: There are far too many facts and leads, both real and false, to hold the reader's interest. We do not need to track every twist and turn in the case. Strangely, there are FAR too many suspects! That may seem like a positive, but in the case of BA, it isn't. Also too many of the suspects have nicknames! Finally, several of the characters are not central to the plot, entertaing as some of these folks are.  A final weak point lies in the victim herself. We get to know her grieving father better than her! While there is much revulsion toward the bad guys, there is little sympathy generated for this young woman who died so gruesomely.  This reviewer would still recommend BA to hardcore true crime fans. They will enjoy how the NYPD solved this murder. For the rest of us, 4 stars are a more appropriate, if generous, rating. Once again, the \\"Ann Rule rule\\" is in effect. Skip over those centerfold photos until the very end. The header to this review is taken directly from an early James Bond movie because this crime is indeed shocking! (You're good if you can name the flick). No disrespect to Kim or her family was intended.	2003-06-24
US	52139358	RB7DFIJGDJ4GB	1891620312	701797562	The Cat from Hue: A Vietnam War Story	Books	1	20	37	N	N	Xin Loi !!!	The author covered the War in Vietnam from '65-'70 as a corespondent for CBS News. RVN Vets drop the \\"19\\" from the years spent in country. In defense of Mr. Lawrence, he was no rear echelon armchair observer, no \\"Cam Ranh commando\\". So many of those types sat around the bar at Saigon's Caravelle Hotel filing their cynical stories far removed from any danger. Not the author. Intrepidly and often, he went deep into the bush with, at various junctures, the Marines, the Army Special Forces and most notably the First Air Cavalry Division (\\"the Cav\\"). He even accompanied an A1 Skyraider pilot on a bombing run!  In further defense of Mr. Lawrence, a healthy amount of cynicism is an absolute requirement in writing about Vietnam so a fair reviewer must cut the author some slack.  But as my buddies and I used to ask: \\"How are you gonna act''? There is a limit to a reader's patience. The principal problem with \\"The Cat\\" is its' egregiously excessive length. TC tells of too many flights out to the boonies, too many patrols, too many interviews. Further, it tells of far too many rushes to beat deadlines, too many cables back to CBS Headquarters with too much corporate politics thrown in. Most distressing of all, TC is strewn with too many \\"convenient\\" trips back to Saigon for nice little in country R&Rs complete with all the entertainment that dump could after the sun went down. It gets worse! The author's buddies/fellow journalists hobble TC. This reviewer has yet to experience such an absolutely unmitigated self-centered, narcissistic, hedonistic, self-indulgent, pampered elitist bunch of jerks anywhere! Someone needs to whisper in their collective ears (if they are still alive and capable of hearing) that they are HARDLY the only people ever to find a good meal, a woman, some wine, and some grass in Saigon- all while listening to Crosby Stills and Nash. Memo to Mr. Lawrence: The troops were the story, not you. The bottom line to TC is that the author went back for one too many tours and burned out. I believe he also succumbed to the elitist attitude that the media in general (and CBS in particular) ultimately adapted as the war dragged on. The tone of TC deteriorates from the sharpness of his early tours to that of his final one. His portrayal of the First Cav in the summer of '71 is stunningly anti-military and brimming over with ingratitude to the command that tried so hard to work with him.  Lawrence even manages to make the invasion of Cambodia routine. The foregoing contains several warranted criticisms of the TC but this reviewer isn't finished! The Cat's website does NOT contain the promised update on some of the folks mentioned. Further this reviewer is distressed that in 848 pages no mention is made of the 1,818 (as of 20 May 2003) POWs still unaccounted for in Indochina. For a guy who spent so much time over there, couldn't he have reflected on them? He does, to his credit briefly write about the scores of missing journalists. It is also true that Lawrence routinely mentions soldiers' hometowns!  This reviewer was a military journalist and THAT was rule # 1. In reviewing the ultimate Vietnam book, \\"Street Without Joy\\", I mentioned that its' author- the late Bernard Fall-\\"would be a great guy to have a few beers with\\". I only wish I could state the same about Mr. Lawrence. Two closing comments: 1) the English translation of the headline to this review is \\"tough luck\\" or \\"sorry about that\\"-a very appropriate comment on the Cat. 2) There IS a physical cat. The author rescued one from the siege of Hue in '68 and brought him home to the World. This cat lover appreciated that very humane gesture. Most Vietnamese cats wound up as someone's dinner.	2003-05-24
US	52139358	R13UQOVC6CKR29	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	From a Male Perspective	This male reviewer is glad to report that ND grew on him! ND is indeed a fast reading tale, so I was well into it before any interest was generated. As the story progressed, I actually came to care what would happen to \\"Nanny\\" and hoped she would find happiness- or at least a better job. Since ND has dual authorship, one wonders if the pickup in interest was due to an alternate and more talented narrator. The bottom line is that ND is catty, chatty, breezy and fun. One could almost read it in a single sitting. The adjective funny does not apply because these people (i.e. Nanny's employers) are the antithesis of that. They are rich, pampered elitist, sad and pathetic. Money will never buy these folks happiness. It would help for readers to remember that there are people who live like the characters portrayed.  ND is a glimpse into their world, a snapshot of a way we will never be. This reviewer is a native New Yorker who enjoyed an upper middle class upbringing. However the inhabitants of ND are UPPER upper class. In Manhattan, it's entirely possible to live only a block or two from Nanny's employers and never cross their path, to have absolutely no knowledge of their world. My bedroom would be their broom closet. The worlds are veritable planets apart and ND portrays their special milieu unfavorably. In fact, it makes it appear downright unappetizing. ND remains a positive tale because Nanny always keeps her values, her head on straight and sense of self. Will there be a sequel? Let's pray there be not! In today's economy lots of young highly educated women such as Nanny may be forced into remaining nannies. This reviewer hopes that Nanny gets her PHD and a good job to go with it -far away from Manhattan's Upper East Side.	2003-05-24
US	52139358	R6WT5BY5O2WNF	0451407318	338735090	The Stalking of Kristin: A Father Investigates the Murder of His Daughter	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Sad AND True	'The Stalking of Kristen\\" is the sad tale of the cold -blooded murder of a female college student in Boston in May, 1992. The author is none other than her distraught father, a Washington Post reporter. SOK is deeply disturbing on several levels. Readers know from the outset that Kristen never had a chance. Further, the perpetrator commits suicide, so there is no prosecution. SOK is one-quarter paean by a grieving father for his departed daughter and one-quarter portrait of the troubled, unloved loser who was the murderer.  Another quarter is the indictment of the authorities in eastern Massachusetts who failed to protect women like Kristen from dangerous stalkers, to seriously enforce orders of protection or even crack down on parole violators.. A final portion of SOK is a quasi research paper into stalkers and the troubles and tragedies they cause. These elements dilute the impact of SOK. With all due respect to the grief stricken author, SOK is too long. Mr. Lardner had a powerful tale to tell but could have done so far more briefly. The epilogue, bibliography and notes stretch over 90 pages! SOK is a powerful and worthwhile 5 star work, with one star deducted for its' unfortunately excessive length. This reviewer is guessing that many females, especially those in eastern Massachusetts, will add back the 5th star.	2003-05-13
US	52139358	R23N1MVJPMY7LB	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	2	56	68	N	N	A minority opinion!	To be succinct, \\"From Beirut to Jerusalem\\" is a disappointment. It covers Mr. Freidman's experiences as New York Times and UPI reporter in those fractious Mideast cities. There is no doubt that the author has written a judiciously balanced and fair report. Though a Jew, Freidman is the antithesis of a Zionist. He tries to portray the Arab/Palestinian struggle, though he obviously has a better perspective on the cause of the Israelis. The first half of FBTJ deals with his posting in Beirut and this section is pure gold. Friedman excellently explains the backgrounds of all the fractious religious and political factions that tore Lebanon apart. Beirut was a true combat zone during his stay. Life was dangerous. Danger and death were random. We read in shock as his very apartment house is blown up- by a fellow tenant, no less! He fully and I believe, accurately reports Israel's disastrous excursion into southern Lebanon and the suicide attack on the U.S. Marine compound in 1983. And then? And then the author is transferred to Israel. While the first part of FBTJ is clearly written with a beginning, middle and end, the second half is a hodge podge. The Israel portion jumps around, repeats itself and spins back again with no continuity at all. This reviewer strongly suspects that two different editors worked on FBTJ. The one with talent handled the Beirut half. Moreover, FBTJ is sadly out of date. My version ended ten years ago-a veritable eternity for that part of the world. Hopefully, updated versions available. Finally, this reviewer's pet peeve came home to roost. The MAPS are of negative use! In a region where geography is so vital how can any responsible author or publisher be so careless? The bottom line is that FBTJ is a financial success but an artistic failure. I fear the author is far more talented at short, focussed newspaper columns written under pressure of deadline than the longer fare of FBTJ.	2003-05-03
US	52139358	R17PM9XQ9LACTF	0312979479	493632041	And Then There Were None	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good Old School Suspence!	85 Reviews (as of  March 9, 2003)! I must admit to being impressed. \\"And Then There Were None\\" is a solid whodunit from the old school. We have all experienced the storyline before, most likely because others have \\"borrowed\\" it from Author Christie. The proverbial \\"mysterious stranger\\" invites ten individuals to an island. Each has a definite skeleton is his or her personal closet. One by one they die. The plot thickens as the group realizes that the murderer is one of them! This reviewer won't reveal the ending -as some fellow amazoners have!- but I believe it is plausible. The resolution certainly completes the circle. ATTWN has the added value of being highly readable. No doubt many have consumed it in one sitting, pulled along by the momentum. There are two soft points to ATTWN. 1) The reader must accept the initial premise that the ten accepted a mysterious invitation from a complete stranger and 2)its' brevity precludes the development of any of the characters.  A few of these were \\"characters\\" in their own right! Another 30-50 pages would only have bolstered the suspense. Those who like mystery/crime/ murder novels should not be disappointed. With 80 novels and 14 plays to her credit, Ms. Christie is a low risk author, especially at paperback prices. A final word of warning: Do not be fooled, as this reviewer was, by the classic 1945 movie version with Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Huston. Though equally satisfying, the endings are NOT the same.	2003-05-03
US	52139358	R1EAHJEEXL0DDL	0385484550	870146650	You've Got Only Three Seconds: How to Make the Right Impression in Your Business and Social Life	Books	5	25	29	N	Y	Wonderful Career Advice From A Professional!	One on one consultation with First Rate professionals such as Mrs. Lavington can be extremely costly. Here we have an opportunity to pick up her pearls of wisdom for the price of a paperback book. This is a bargain! YOHTS is packed with good solid everyday and tactics that can be used to advance one's career or prevent others from derailing it. There is a downside: I believe that the younger one is, the more he/she will benefit from YOHTS. While it's true that &quot;it is never too late&quot;, the earlier in life one is &quot;wised up&quot; the better. I certainly wish that I had encountered this sooner than I did. The upside is that this is NOT a Machiavellian, sneaky, manipulative font of advice. Rather the author concentrates on advising her readers to parry the outrageous thrusts of the manipulative types we have all encountered on the job. Like any good self help work, YOHTS is not to be devoured in a few sittings. One should read carefully, take notes, think about it and let the advice sink into our everyday-working behavior. A personal note: About ten years ago, my church group invited the author to a one-day seminar. I was totally impressed with Mrs. Lavington's  poise, sincerity, professionalism and obvious knowledge of the real world. I wish I had hired her then. Rest assured that this lady is on the level. Readers can take her advice to the bank.  This reviewer would especially urge younger amazoners to read YOHTS early in your career. Thank me later.	2003-05-03
US	52139358	R2TU9BFB76D48R	1585742899	121955907	The Sledge Patrol: A WWII Epic of Escape, Survival, and Victory	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	Another side to the Big One	&quot;The Sledge Patrol&quot; is set in eastern Greenland during World War 2. Yes, that conflict even extended to the remote Danish colony.  Greenland was strategic because weather patterns for Western Europe and surrounding waters form there.  This was of obvious and vital interest to the American, British and German navies.  Early in the War, the Danish colonial weather stations had broadcast reports &quot;in the clear&quot;. Anyone, including the Germans could pick them up. Two critical events take place: Eske Brun, the Danish colonial head decides he had the power to resist German interest in his territory- and formed the Greenland Army with a force of 9 men. Then the Danish weather reports are sent in cipher so that the German navy can no longer eavesdrop. The Germans land a force to establish their own weather station. This the background to SP. What follows is almost as much a tale of personal honor and battling/surviving the Arctic elements than of military action.  There is much dashing to and fro on sledges (dog sleds) to the point where this reader lost track of who was going where. The sides vie to avoid each other more than to engage in combat. And since there is minimal fighting and hence no real &quot;bad guys&quot;, I found myself losing track of who was on which side. In fact, most of the men on both sides appear as nice, solid guys. The ending is almost academic. Readers will receive an excellent sense of the fierce and beautiful Greenland geography and Eskimo tradition. Mr.Howarth is an excellent writer and interest in his books appears to be going through a well-deserved revival. But one has to be cautious in recommending SP. It is simply too hard to keep track of the action. Furthermore, the maps are inadequate, adding to the confusion. A positive note: SP is well laid out in an eye pleasing typeface and paper stock. So many of us take such for granted but a tip of the hat to an anonymous graphics person is in order. Cautiously, I'm giving out 4stars, but 3 may be more appropriate due to my frustrations with the maps.  It really would have helped to know where these guys were rather than &quot;somewhere in eastern Greenland&quot;.	2003-05-03
US	52139358	R2T0R0SPKL6LWY	0312979479	493632041	And Then There Were None	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good Old School Suspense	395 Reviews (as of  March 9, 2003)! I must admit to being impressed. \\"And Then There Were None\\" is a solid whodunit from the old school. We have all experienced the storyline before, most likely because others have \\"borrowed\\" it from Author Christie. The proverbial \\"mysterious stranger\\" invites ten individuals to an island. Each has a definite skeleton is his or her personal closet. One by one they die. The plot thickens as the group realizes that the murderer is one of them! This reviewer won't reveal the ending -as some fellow amazoners have!- but I believe it is plausible. The resolution certainly completes the circle. ATTWN has the added value of being highly readable. No doubt many have consumed it in one sitting, pulled along by the momentum. There are two soft points to ATTWN. 1) The reader must accept the initial premise that the ten accepted a mysterious invitation from a complete stranger and 2)its' brevity precludes the development of any of the characters.  A few of these were \\"characters\\" in their own right! Another 30-50 pages would only have bolstered the suspense. Those who like mystery/crime/ murder novels should not be disappointed. With 80 novels and 14 plays to her credit, Ms. Christie is a low risk author, especially at paperback prices. A final word of warning: Do not be fooled, as this reviewer was, by the classic 1945 movie version with Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Huston. Though equally satisfying, the endings are NOT the same.	2003-03-10
US	52139358	R3F7S41PUX5H0G	0394720245	800538326	The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Giant From Another Era	\\"The Power Broker\\" is a mammoth book. It documents in exquisite detail the career of the late Robert Moses.  Mr. Moses, in his time, was the most powerful public official in New York State. He accomplished this without winning a single election to any office.  He was, simultaneously, the head of several powerful and interlocking public authorities and commissions - on state, city and regional levels. From the mid 1930s to the mid 1960s few public works came to life without his express force behind it. These were done often in the face of extreme local opposition. He was a virtual law onto himself! He used and abused politicians at will, trading and bestowing some favors, refusing and withholding others-all with a single purpose, which was to keep RM in power. His abilities to award jobs, positions, commissionerships, and lucrative contracts were enormous. What banker would not salivate at receiving some of his authorities' deposits?  What construction executive would not lust for some of his assignments? A troublesome \\"pol\\" could always get a crony appointed to one of several public domains. A cynic, such as this reviewer, might suggest that certain politicians secretly liked men like Moses. He \\"got things done\\"-a favorite Moses catch phrase.  He took the heat and the criticism, while the politicians threw up their hands and pointed fingers.  His projects bulldozed neighborhoods.  Some were permanently scarred-such as the central Bronx by the infamous Cross Bronx Expressway. The lucky neighborhoods were transformed for the better, as was Manhattan's West Side by the Lincoln Center project. Others were left \\"relatively\\" intact, as was the East Side of Manhattan by the Queens Midtown Tunnel. The sheer scale of his accomplishments towers over today's standards. What happened to him? This reviewer will leave that to readers to find out for him or herself. 3 hints: 1) to quote former Mayor Koch: \\"Friends come and go but enemies accumulate\\". They did as well for Moses. 2)He outsmarted himself by his constant threats to resign various posts if not given his way and 3) he ran into the one man in New York State who could not be bluffed, intimidated or bought off. Author Caro does a first rate job in documenting the rise and fall of one of the most important men in the political/social history of New York State. PB should be required reading for poly sci types, its' length not withstanding.  The pages will fly by for history lovers. A personal observation: Caro is highly critical of RM's infamous Brooklyn Queens Expressway. This project, over Brooklyn's Third Avenue, bulldozed a vital and active neighborhood. According to the author, it could have all been avoided by moving the roadway a block or two west, over 2nd or 1st Avenues. Moses refused to do so. I happened to be in that vicinity recently and saw the monstrosity for myself. Caro is absolutely correct. The area beneath the BQE was barren and lifeless. The BQE could indeed have been moved westward. What drove Moses to do such obvious harm? I admire the author for the strength of his writing and enormous research capabilities. He appears to relish pursuing figures he does not admire, as evidenced by his trilogy on President Johnson. But he makes his case against them powerfully and in great detail. PB is not light reading but will be highly rewarding for those who tackle it. New York City natives are especially invited to read and appreciate. In this litigious age, the days of the great public works are over. PB will demonstrate the way \\"things used to work\\" but never will again.  Other PB reviewers have stated that they are waiting for the author's next installment in the LBJ series.  I'm confident that most that read PB will add themselves to that group.	2003-02-25
US	52139358	RAEDYNKQDFQ2E	0312285434	547888744	Robert Mitchum: "Baby I Don't Care"	Books	3	6	15	N	N	He Didn't Care: Should We ?	\\"Baby, I Don't Care\\" is a meticulously researched biography of the late film star, Robert Mitchum. It features no less than 25 pages of sources. The title is from a Mitchum line in an early noir film (I believe it was \\"Out of the Past\\").  The story takes us from his childhood through a hardscrabble early adulthood to Hollywood. Readers are led through virtually each and every (!) Mitchum film, whether famous, infamous or anonymous. Inside gossip and tidbits abound. We learn, for example why Mia Farrow backed out of the female lead in \\"True Grit\\".  The reader encounters a faded Rita Hayworth, a drunken Trevor Howard, a strange Howard Hughes, an unlikable Kirk Douglas, and a quite appealing Jane Russell. Since Mitchum worked for nearly every major director in his career, they too are included in BIDC: Hawks, Hathaway, Huston, Minnelli and Dmytryk. One problem is that we are surfeited with such blessings. The tidbits and gossip are unceasing. Another problem is the character of Mitchum himself. If he \\"cared\\" about anything or what he \\"cared\\" about is conspicuously unexplained!  His behavior is just plain boorish. The public drunkenness, gross public and gratuitous rudeness spread over 536 pages, become progressively boring. An additional caveat is that despite the ample documentation, this reviewer questions the general authenticity of BIDC. Author Server had certainly done his homework but how much of the text is fact and how much insinuation? Other reviewers have also raised this point.  BIDC is difficult to rate. For hardcore old movie fans, it easily rates 5 stars. As a \\"moderate\\" but not fanatic old movie fan, this reviewer feels 3 stars is more appropriate. I like watching movies on AMC and TCM etc too but all good things have their time, place, and limitations. Author Server has simply exceeded those limitations, his valiant effort notwithstanding.	2003-02-25
US	52139358	R1BAXUYUV1Y3LX	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Stark and Powerful but....	I am embarrassed to admit that \\"Night\\" did not register strongly with me. Since most of us know the plot, this reviewer won't retell it. Author Wiesel writes powerfully of his families' abduction by the Nazis and quick separation from his mother and sister in concentration camp. We feel earnestly for he and his father to survive against the \\"system\\" in captivity.  Tragically, certain fellow prisoners appear to be as dangerous as the guards are. As they do in the military, rumors bearing false hope abound. \\"Every man for himself\\" selfishness also abounds, most graphically in the instance of the young man who falls out of step with his own father to avoid punishment. We sympathize with those who second-guess themselves for not escaping the Nazis early in the War, or not emigrating to Palestine. The main problem with \\"Night\\" is that it's all too brief. The ending happens far too soon, almost as if concentration camp were a terrible weekend, a bad dream, perfectly brutal but quickly dispensed with. This reviewer believes that the Holocaust is not done justice by a 109-page paperback. It demands more detail, more retelling, more names, more places, more faces and indeed-more suffering. So many of us, this reviewer included, remain ignorant of the Holocaust and absent greater detail, stand to remain that way. At the risk of sounding petty, a map would assist in the process.  I honestly would like to know where Mr. Weisel suffered. One result of my reading of \\"Night\\" is that I intend to scroll through amazon[.com] for other (retellings) of the Holocaust. Hopefully I will find some that deal with this issue the greater depth, volume and detail it deserves.	2003-02-25
US	52139358	R397WTFNJWVL5G	047138934X	789994540	Desperate Hours: The Epic Story of the Rescue of the Andrea Doria	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Not much suspense but a solid story.	&quot;The Desperate Hours&quot; is an account of the collision between the passenger liners Andrea Doria and Stockhlom, which occurred on the night of July 25, 1956 south of Nantucket. Fortunately, the accident took place in summertime within heavily traveled shipping lanes. DH is not another &quot;Night to Remember&quot;, which was the tale of the vastly more tragic and heartbreaking Titanic sinking of April, 1912. Author Goldstein is a New York Times journalist and like a good reporter faithfully follows the who-what-why-when-where- and how path to constructing solid news stories. Sergeant Joe Friday from the old &quot;Dragnet&quot; show always wanted &quot;the facts ma'am&quot; and this is exactly what readers of DH will get. Mr. Goldstein touches all the bases here, including a brief history of the ships, various personalities among the passengers (mostly those of the more glamorous Doria), a background of word the ships' Masters, and a retracing of the actions of the 2 crews leading up to the collision. Goldstein solidly recounts the frustratingly contradictory versions the 2 skippers gave of their actions in the final critical moments. &quot;Who did or didn't do what&quot; is explained and analyzed in layman's language. The author also covers the post accident investigations and follows up with tales of the subsequent lives of various passengers and crew. The only objection from this reviewer is its title! The rescue operation was not &quot;desperate&quot; at all- in act it was amazingly orderly. 5 ships, including the Stockholm, carried survivors back to New York, with 2 more vessels standing by at the scene. The Doria lingered for nearly 12 hours (the Titanic lasted 3!) before sinking. All fatalities were caused by the ships' impact, none by drowning. This is the virtual opposite of the Titanic tragedy, where an inadequate rescue effort gravely worsened the situation. Author Goldstein deserves 5 star credit for a solid soup to nuts reporting. One star is deducted for the implication of excitement and suspense that simply is not there.  Those who approach DH as a first class news story, with no frills added, should not be disappointed.	2003-01-13
US	52139358	R3DVKWU986T4GW	0312978359	480797501	An Hour To Kill: A True Story of Love, Murder, and Justice in a Small Southern Town (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Mediocre.	\\"An Hour to Kill\\" is no more than an above average murder, arrest and prosecution story.  Set in Conway, South Carolina, it concerns the brutal rape and murder of Crystal Todd.  There is no suspense whatever in finding her killer.  For one, his name, Ken Register, and picture are listed on the cover! For another, the efficient local cops zero in on Ken very quickly. Moreover a load of crime scene DNA evidence implicates him. Finally, our hero waives his Miranda rights and confesses before seeking defense counsel! Those circumstances didn't leave much to chance and certainly didn't give his lawyer much wiggle room to attack the prosecution's case. A good review should not divulge the plot but there is so little suspense in HTK, that the point is moot. Reader interest could have been whetted had the authors attempted to explain the rage behind the brutal act or searched for any motive. Despite being fluidly written with little fluff or wasted space, HTK is a 3 star effort. It is suitable enough, at paperback prices, for true crime devotees. South Carolina residents may wish to add a 4th star. On second thought, they may wish to subtract one.	2003-01-04
US	52139358	R2ALOEPS2SG9H8	1558219730	634394343	We Die Alone: A WWII Epic of Escape and Endurance	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Insiring!	\\"We Die Alone\\" is the stirring story of the escape and evasion of Jan Baalsrud, a commando inserted into Nazi-occupied Norway in World War 2.  This reviewer finished WDA in one sitting this past Christmas night. The resolution, which is not revealed here, will be readily obvious yet this does not lessen reader interest one iota.  WDA is not spellbinding but the undercurrent of suspense stays constantly with the reader. The stark facts tell their own story. The setting is bare bones and sparse-perhaps in keeping with the bitter Norway cold.  \\"Cold\\" is a key word in describing WDA because Mr. Baalsrud spends lots of time outdoors in it!  At one point he is all but buried alive in snow, as a desperate Norwegian Resistance has nowhere else to conceal him from pursuing Germans. No review of WDA would be complete without giving homage to the fierce Resistance, which tied down some 280,000<BR>German troops. Military history fans seeking a fresh angle on WW2 and especially those who enjoy tales that deal with positive thinking, refusal to quit, and dedication to duty should enjoy WDA. Mr. Baalsrud had more of those qualities than any 10 of us will ever demonstrate. Unhappily, WDA possesses one huge weakness-no MAP! This is a common failing in all too many military stories but is inexcusable here. Geography is critical in Baalsrud's eastward flight to neutral Sweden.  The inability to follow it without a map, or at least a World Atlas at hand, was frustrating. This is shameless insensitivity on the publisher's part and justifies subtracting a star from the above rating. By all means, read WDA but have a good map of Norway handy when you do.	2003-01-04
US	52139358	R1MX826J8F56N6	1558219730	634394343	We Die Alone: A WWII Epic of Escape and Endurance	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Insiring!	\\"We Die Alone\\" is the stirring story of the escape and evasion of Jan Baalsrud, a commando inserted into Nazi-occupied Norway in World War 2.  This reviewer finished WDA in one sitting this past Christmas night. The resolution, which is not revealed here, will be readily obvious yet this does not lessen reader interest one iota.  WDA is not spellbinding but the undercurrent of suspense stays constantly with the reader. The stark facts tell their own story. The setting is bare bones and sparse-perhaps in keeping with the bitter Norway cold.  \\"Cold\\" is a key word in describing WDA because Mr. Baalsrud spends lots of time outdoors in it!  At one point he is all but buried alive in snow, as a desperate Norwegian Resistance has nowhere else to conceal him from pursuing Germans. No review of WDA would be complete without giving homage to the fierce Resistance, which tied down some 280,000<BR>German troops. Military history fans seeking a fresh angle on WW2 and especially those who enjoy tales that deal with positive thinking, refusal to quit, and dedication to duty should enjoy WDA. Mr. Baalsrud had more of those qualities than any 10 of us will ever demonstrate. Unhappily, WDA possesses one huge weakness-no MAP! This is a common failing in all too many military stories but is inexcusable here. Geography is critical in Baalsrud's eastward flight to neutral Sweden.  The inability to follow it without a map, or at least a World Atlas at hand, was frustrating. This is ... insensitivity on the publisher's part and justifies subtracting a star from the above rating. By all means, read WDA but have a good map of Norway handy when you do.	2003-01-04
US	52139358	R36KZJBIQ6ZZ97	0306804751	527783298	Murder, Inc.: The Story of the Syndicate	Books	4	30	32	N	Y	True Crime: The Old Fashioned New York Way	\\"Murder Inc.\\" was written by a former Assistant District Attorney in Brooklyn, New York-Burton Turkus.  In the years just preceding WW2, Mr. Turkus successfully prosecuted several members of the national crime organization he terms the Syndicate. Seven went to the electric chair at Sing Sing prison in Ossining, New York. The author believed that the Mafia, as we now know the term, did not then exist. There are both weak and strong points to MI. Weak points include the author's breezy style, with which this reviewer was initially uncomfortable. At the outset, Turkus wrote as if his readers were as knowledgeable of the subject as he. I found it difficult to keep up with the both the story and the cast of characters. These are not the Gottis, Colombos, Gallos or Gambinos of a more current era.  These guys are of the 1930s and early 40s and comparatively unknown-especially to non native New Yorkers. They are not even all Italian. We are introduced to Harry Strauss (\\"Pittsburgh Phil\\"), Louis Buchalter (\\"Lepke\\"), and Abe Reles (\\"Kid Twist\\"). I will save the infamous-and embarrassing! - tale of the Kid's demise for those who buy the book. We are introduced to Italian criminals as well: Albert Anastasia (the boss of the waterfront), the notoriously powerful Frank Costello (\\"The Ambassador\\") and the cover boy Joey Adonis, who even the author respectfully calls \\"Mister A\\". Midway through the text, this reviewer felt a shift! MI got stronger! Perhaps I warmed up to Turkus' style. Perhaps an anonymous editor took charge of the text. Perhaps I became used to the characters-and \\"characters\\" they are! I loved the painstaking recounting of various rubouts. These guys planned! I appreciated the savvy courtroom tactics needed to convict the accused mobsters, all defended by top-notch counsel.  Turkus explains the delicacy of using information provided by informants, the ever- present danger of a mistrial or reversal of a conviction on appeal. Like a good professor, he drums into hisreaders the import of CORROBORATION at trial.  Sadly, he recounts that not all in government, including his one time boss (the future Mayor O' Dwyer!) shared his zeal to bring these criminals to justice.  Significantly, the author goes to lengths to demonstrate that the crimes relived here are decidedly not \\"victimless\\". As a suggestion, I might hope that future editions of the reprinted MI carry an epilog explaining what happened to those still standing at the tale's end. I know Mr. Anastasia met his violent demise in 1956-in his favorite barbershop at the old Park Sheraton Hotel on 55th Street and 7th Avenue. Minor point. The end result is a very satisfying story for those who bear down and read it through. Those who claim to like \\"True Crime\\" can't go wrong with MI. This is criminality at it truest and rawest!	2002-12-14
US	52139358	R2VK1CSGL4IIPW	0375759832	468968429	My Silent War: The Autobiography of a Spy	Books	1	18	34	N	Y	Kim Philby: The Silent Rat	There is precious little excitement between the pages of \\"My Silent War\\" to titillate the reader. We should remember that no spy worthy of the name would sit down and bare his soul, spilling trade secrets. Philby is no exception. Very little is revealed in \\"MSW\\". There are 3 points of minimal interest: The first is to observe how Philby jockeys and maneuvers for position in a competitive bureaucracy-the British Secret Service. That would be the same Secret Service he sold out. The second is a surprisingly strong introduction, which gives the plot context that Philby failed to provide. The third entails his brief station in Washington (circa 1950) as head of British counter-intelligence in the US. The noose closes in on fellow spies Guy Burgess, Donald Maclean and the author himself. (Suspicions again arise about his '\\"loyalty\\" upon his return to England.) No point justifies the purchase price! The bottom line is that Kim Philby was a hard core Communist spy in the best Cold War tradition, He was a traitor to his country. He broke into small pieces whatever oaths he gave to England and his Queen. Added to that mix is his overtly snide contempt for his readers. (He is so much smarter than we are, you know). The best example of this is on page 193 when under suspicion in England and evading his surveillance, he meets clandestinely with his Russian handlers. \\"What passed there\\", we are informed, \\"is of no concern to the reader\\". No concern? Then why reveal the incident all! What a conceited little snob! The British have a word for books like this: \\"RUBBISH\\"!	2002-11-27
US	52139358	R2N7HFRU9IXVSX	0964725606	984898847	Vietnam Medic	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A Fresh, Low Key Perspective on Vietnam	\\"Vietnam Medic\\"is a low key, understated yet serious story of Cliff Roberson's experience as a combat medic with the First Infantry Division in 1967.  It is presented in straight diary style, making for fast reading.  Touching pieces are the author's efforts to stay in touch with the folks back home, his growing attachment, through the mail, to the nice girl that became his wife and the worry that he won't \\"screw up\\" when patching up a buddy while under fire.  The descriptions of Army routine on the edge of combat are poignant. It brought back memories of my own waiting for that replacement and especially of my fervent obsession with my \\"short timer\\"s calendar! Most enlightening is the author's references to non-combat casualties. Medics had to treat them too and they were a huge problem over there.  VM is not helped by the quality of the 30+ year old photos but they do personalize the text.  The layout / format of VM are attractive and the map of the Saigon-Di An-Lai Khe area of Vietnam is actually useful! Few military maps are.  The more I think about VM, the more I like it. Once again, someone has composed a Vietnam story with yet another fresh perspective.  On that basis alone, VM is highly recommended.	2002-10-28
US	52139358	R2JGQXXOAOZRI8	0312976410	999001902	The Surgeon's Wife (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	There is One Slight PROBLEM!	What's the \\"problem\\"? It's that the author reveals the ENDING right on the back cover!  This turned SW from a true crime nail biter into a scaled down arrest and prosecution tale.  The result is still worthwhile, just not what it might have been. Read on: SW concerns the 1985 demise of Gail Bierenbaum.  The prime suspect is husband Robert, a Manhattan doctor. (The couple lived in a \\"deluxe apartment in the sky\\" within the apartment building used on the old \\"Jeffersons\\" TV show.) Investigators had some obstacles: There was no body, no murder weapon, no witnesses, no true motive, no confession, no physical evidence, no time of murder and no crime scene!  There was even a witness who allegedly saw Gail ALIVE after the supposed time of her death. With the right defense and some breaks from an even- handed judge, Bob Bierenbaum had an outstanding chance of walking free. Furthermore, Gail and Bob, for all their heavy baggage, were an interesting couple-especially the troubled and troubling wife. Add to the mix a touch of blackmail, a pinch of provocative \\"cheating\\", a choking of a cat, a little prior physical abuse, a previous suicide attempt and some highly (!) unprofessional behavior by at least one psychiatrist. (Does anybody remember \\"doctor-patient confidentiality?)? SW had all the trappings of a first rate potboiler.  Why the author chose to reveal the ending at the outset is the biggest mystery in the whole episode. There is still hope! Buy SW but do not read the cover.  Go directly to the text and skip the centerfold photos. Doing will so will keep the ending what it should have been-a mystery- and adds a star or two to the rating above. The author is one of his own reviewers: see below. Perhaps he can edit his entry and explain his decision to divulge.	2002-10-23
US	52139358	RTRCHB5MK6M48	067973371X	933385853	Means of Ascent (The Years of Lyndon Johnson)	Books	3	3	9	N	Y	Lengthy and DEEP! in Detail	LBJ: \\"Means of Ascent\\" is a story narrower in scope than may be initially apparent. It only spans the 1940s but within this limited time frame, there are several high points. Key among them are LBJ's losing effort for the US Senate in 1941 and his highly controversial-and successful- race for a similar seat in 1948. The author leaves little doubt that vote rigging decided both contests. The 1948 campaign is examined at extensive-and excessive- extent.  In fact, all of MOA is deep in detail! Author Caro hammers away at how hard LBJ drove himself that year as the candidate skips around the vast stretches of Texas by helicopter.  The author's admiration for LBJ's worthy opponent, Governor Coke Stevenson is crystal clear. Stevenson is depicted as a \\"gentleman of the old school\\" (this reviewer's words).  LBJ is portrayed  as a brash upstart-with his expensive chopper flights, mass mailings, radio advertisements, corporate fat cat financial support (most notably the Brown and Root Company), and \\"help\\" from venal local officials in Southeast Texas. Coke Stevenson a.k.a. \\"Mister Texas\\" almost emerges as the hero of the book! Caro also manages to cover Johnson\\"s ill treatment of his wife, Lady Bird, and his \\"questionable\\" attainment of a quick fortune in ownership of Texas radio stations. More space is devoted to LBJs egregious exaggeration of his \\"War record\\" and the flaunting of the Silver Star he was hastily awarded but did not deserve. MOA is no paean to Johnson but is well researched.  Its authenticity is immediately obvious but the sheer volume is a detraction.  MOA could have been truncated. Given the enormous amounts of time Caro has devoted to his subject, the author should be forgiven for his pedantic style.  The question here is why the author has devoted so much of his career to a trilogy, perhaps a four part series, to a former President he does NOT admire?  If one includes the \\"Power Broker\\", then it appears Caro has spent his past 30 years on bios of powerfulpeople he doesn?t care much for!  If MOA has a weakness apart from the length, it is the following: At the conclusion this reader had no further understanding of Johnson -the man- than at the start.  If it has a strong point, it is this: LBJ was the man my generation loved to hate.  I believe I can see why!  Now, how about a book on Coke Stevenson!	2002-10-16
US	52139358	R1IJAU67GYBPV2	067973371X	933385853	Means of Ascent (The Years of Lyndon Johnson)	Books	3	6	12	N	Y	Lengthy and DEEP! in Detail	LBJ: \\"Means of Ascent\\" is a story narrower in scope than may be initially apparent. It only spans the 1940s but within this limited time frame, there are several high points. Key among them are LBJ's losing effort for the US Senate in 1941 and his highly controversial-and successful- race for a similar seat in 1948. The author leaves little doubt that vote rigging decided both contests. The 1948 campaign is examined at extensive-and excessive- extent.  In fact, all of MOA is deep in detail! Author Caro hammers away at how hard LBJ drove himself that year as the candidate skips around the vast stretches of Texas by helicopter.  The author's admiration for LBJ's worthy opponent, Governor Coke Stevenson is crystal clear. Stevenson is depicted as a \\"gentleman of the old school\\" (this reviewer's words).  LBJ is portrayed  as a brash upstart-with his expensive chopper flights, mass mailings, radio advertisements, corporate fat cat financial support (most notably the Brown and Root Company), and \\"help\\" from venal local officials in Southeast Texas. Coke Stevenson a.k.a. \\"Mister Texas\\" almost emerges as the hero of the book! Caro also manages to cover Johnson\\"s ill treatment of his wife, Lady Bird, and his \\"questionable\\" attainment of a quick fortune in ownership of Texas radio stations. More space is devoted to LBJs egregious exaggeration of his \\"War record\\" and the flaunting of the Silver Star he was hastily awarded but did not deserve. MOA is no paean to Johnson but is well researched.  Its authenticity is immediately obvious but the sheer volume is a detraction.  MOA could have been truncated. Given the enormous amounts of time Caro has devoted to his subject, the author should be forgiven for his pedantic style.  The question here is why the author has devoted so much of his career to a trilogy, perhaps a four part series, to a former President he does NOT admire?  If one includes the \\"Power Broker\\", then it appears Caro has spent his past 30 years on bios of powerfulpeople he doesn?t care much for!  If MOA has a weakness apart from the length, it is the following: At the conclusion this reader had no further understanding of Johnson -the man- than at the start.  If it has a strong point, it is this: LBJ was the man my generation loved to hate.  I believe I can see why!  Now, how about a book on Coke Stevenson!	2002-10-16
US	52139358	R1W4OFM6HWEH2M	B00006JO2R	684938954	Nypd: A City and Its Police	Books	1	6	6	N	N	WHY?	NYPD is a history of New York City and its police department.  It does not relate the story of either very well. The specific weaknesses of NYPD are several: It's hard to follow. While presented in a decade by decade format, the chronology is still confusing. Accounts of various incidents end abruptly, or merely tail off to no conclusion. Characters appear, disappear and like magic appear once again. Too much attention is given to past riots and disorders. NYPD also concentrates far too many pages to corruption.  This subject is way too old and common to rate the space the authors have devoted to it. Honest cops by comparison are downplayed. We are rarely placed in the street with the cops on the beat. The reader gets virtually no sense of tradition, honor, or bravery that many, if not all, policemen routinely display. Also conspicuous by it's absence is HUMOR! Cops must encounter howlingly funny situations all the time, yet the authors ignore this obvious subject. A final objection to the tale is the extreme tediousness of the portrayal of the department up until the great Depression years.  The tone of NYPD improves after that but not enough to save itself.  Non-NYC residents will receive no feel, no local flavor. It fails on that score too. The recommendation from this reviewer is to \\"search\\" elsewhere for superior political AND better police portrayals.  Surely, amazon has them. It's depressing that a lifelong NYC native has to present such negative review.  The answer to the question at the top is not why buy NYPD but why was it written in the first place?	2002-10-16
US	52139358	R1S253S7VDWWS0	038549565X	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Epic Account of World War II's Greatest Rescue Mission	Books	3	4	8	N	Y	The "Greatest Generation"-Again	\\"Ghost Soldiers\\" is the tale of the American POWs from the Bataan Death March in WW2, their ordeal, and the eleventh hour commando rescue of SOME of them.  GS is well written and well researched. Author Sides strikes a solid balance between the suffering of the POWs and the dangers facing the rescuing US Army Rangers. As of the writing of this review, GS is one of the New York Times paperback bestsellers. It is quick and interesting reading.  The problem is that there is nothing new here! Author Sides takes us over previously well trod ground-to little historical end. I dislike using the review of one book to promote another but I would recommend Donald Knox's \\"Death March\\" for an earthier approach to this unpleasant but vital piece of American military history. I recognize that WW2 vets are currently in vogue and that hundreds are dying daily. There is an urgency to recognize them \\"while we still can\\". This promotes sales and perhaps this is as it should be-as long as GS is not listed with true epic WW2 efforts. This is no \\"Naked and the Dead\\", \\"Battle Cry\\" or \\"Cruel Sea\\"! I have to close with a query: Where were these Rangers in Vietnam where POWs lingered longer than on Bataan with only ONE rescue attempt in eleven years? Where was the steadfast resolve to rescue those POWs? Therein lies the difference between the \\"good war\\" versus Korea and Vietnam.	2002-09-26
US	52139358	REMTRXP2M1F0F	0345342399	201936019	How to Be Your Own Best Friend	Books	4	25	29	N	Y	Good Low Key Self Help	Reading &quot;How to Be Your Own Best Friend&quot; should be a rewarding self -help exercise. Like all such works, one cannot read it like a novel, to be quickly put aside and hope to gain any benefit.  Instead, it should be perused slowly with notes taken of &quot;high points&quot; encountered along the way.  The reader must then periodically glance back at the notes. &quot;How to Be&quot; is big on letting go of the past, especially memories of &quot;troublesome&quot; parents.  Two of the more helpful aphorisms are &quot;There is no way now to even the score&quot; and &quot;Go forward for happiness-not back&quot;. The title may be misleading since &quot;How to&quot; actually calls for some self-discipline as opposed to patting oneself on the back or licking one's wounds: WE are responsible for own good times in life and to &quot;watch and work&quot;. WE must remove the roadblocks that others (i.e.&quot;: PARENTS) have placed in our paths. This is a solid piece of psycho writing, with no downside risk. At paperback prices, one good idea will pay for itself many times over. This may also be the fastest reading paperback I've ever encountered. Those scrolling through the self-help selections should seriously consider &quot;How to&quot;. For those of us with &quot;parent problems&quot; (we know who we are!), this one is strongly recommended.	2002-09-22
US	52139358	R34X6VGJHSH76K	0060959258	670475841	Black Mass	Books	4	23	25	N	Y	True Crime With a Boston Accent !	The plot of \\"Black Mass\\" revolves around a fateful decision by the Boston FBI concerning the so-called Irish Mafia of South Boston and its infamous boss-the notorious James \\"Whitey\\" Bulger.  The FBI was so eager to break up the local Italian Mafia that, for years it used Whitey as a confidential informant. Was there a payback? There certainly was: Whitey was allowed to run his bookmaking, loan sharking, shake downs and other criminal activities without serious interference from law enforcement.  Were there \\"complications\\"?  There certainly were: Apart from obvious slippery morality behind the FBI operation, certain local agents get \\"slightly too cozy\\" with Whitey and his right hand man, Stevie \\"The Rifleman\\" Flemmi. There is a great nickname! I won't divulge what happens but suffice it to say that a sharp eyed-or was it sharp eared? -Defense attorney unravels the deal. Is justice ultimately done? The reader will just have to find out by him or herself!  Fair warning: the epilogue fails to tie up all loose ends. BM reads as if it were two stories. The early going is uneven, choppy and routine. Then BM finds its' stride and develops into fine true crime reading. Perhaps that was due to dual authorship or dual editing. The end result is ultimately satisfying.  BM is an excellent example of the dangers of good intentions (stopping the Italian Mafia) unraveling into a its' own sinister crisis and creating its' own maelstrom of crime.  BM is a 5 star work, but with one star subtracted for the weaker early stages.  Boston residents can quite easily add back the 5th star. True crime devotees living in eastern Massachusetts should love this one.	2002-09-07
US	52139358	R3C1CSJTS5WMAT	0380774569	959192999	The Rapist's Wife	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	True Crime It's VERY Best!	\\"The Rapist's Wife\\" is the story of James and Linda Bergstrom. It's the best true crime this reviewer has read. He was a rapist/stalker/voyeur who plagued the Seattle and Houston areas in the late 80s and early 90s. She is the harried wife married to a sicko, patiently trying to force the wheels of justice to spin her way. And hoping he doesn't kill her or their baby first. The chilling plot matches the chilling title. This is first tier true crime writing.<BR> In the interests of not divulging the ending, this reviewer will attempt a brief review: Authoress Casey slowly weaves a tale of twisted behavior, bizarre families, sloppy police work and some very unfortunate women. (Readers of Ms. Casey's \\"Warrant to Kill\\" will recognize the awkward performance of Houston area lawmen-with those overlapping jurisdictions.) Since Mr. Bergstrom's Seattle \\"activities\\" encompassed his Naval service there, one can add a startlingly unsupportive Navy to the mix. Did the Navy ever abandon Linda! This review won't reveal how, but it's Linda who emerges as a hero. She was the one who had to live with her husband-afraid both to flee and that justice would never be done. James Bergstrom, I truly believe, surpasses Paul Bernardo of \\"Lethal Marriage\\" and Jerome Brudos of \\"Lust Killer\\" for sheer depravity. What happens? Amazoners will just have to read RW and learn for themselves but the \\"Ann Rule rule\\" is in effect: Skip the centerfold photos-one of them gives away the ending.<BR>I have two hopes: One is that Avon books will reissue RW, making it easier to obtain. The other is that Ms Casey produces her third novel. I'm waiting to buy it.   Ms. Casey is a seriously underrated authoress for this genre.(I'd note that I purchased RW \\"used\\". I can report that amazon and \\"Wild Michigan\\", the previous owner, quite capably handled the transaction. I would not hesitate to purchase RW used).	2002-09-06
US	52139358	RFZS5EG3OEOY0	1585742880	432945707	The Shetland Bus: A WWII Epic of Escape, Survival, and Adventure	Books	4	47	49	N	N	But He Wasn'there!	The Shetland Bus\\" is the story of the British/Norwegian operation to run supplies, ammunition, weapons and secret agents from the Shetland Islands to Norway during WW2.  Rescued refugees took the return trip.  These efforts were key to the Norwegian resistance to the German occupation, which tied down 10 divisions and 280,000 enemy troops. <BR>Author Howarth was well placed to write SB. He was the number 2 British Naval man in the Shetlands and had a key hand in each mission.  He was obviously as close to his men as a good commander can be and writes touchingly, respectfully and personally about his charges.  We learn of close escapes from the treacherous weather, quislings and the persistent, if over stretched, German authorities.  If his men were in trouble, they could -and did- die in minutes in the icy North Sea, far from shore or any hope of rescue. The author lends the reader an appreciation for the sheer logistical strains behind the Shetland Bus. Balancing people, personalities, supplies, and technical details was a demanding job- one, which the author plainly relished.  He was a talented writer, producing 18 historical works, several of which are available on amazon.com.<BR>The weak side to SB is that Howarth was shoreside throughout the war. The action here is all second hand and the telling suffers. Howarth simply wasn't there. He was hundreds of miles from the action. Since this book first appeared in 1951, one gets the distinct impression that, so close to the War's end, some censorship of classified information may have been imposed. Something or someone may have held Howarth back.  SB is hard to rate.  Out of respect for the author, his obvious writing talent and his men: 4 stars. Amazon.com fans may wish to scroll through Howarth's (apparently) better-received WW2 efforts; \\"Sledge Patrol\\" or especially \\"We Die Alone\\". I'll end on a positive note: Here is one military book with decent maps! Hooray!	2002-08-18
US	52139358	R3EVGVKZ1C9Y85	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	3	10	19	N	N	The Sound and The Fury....	\\"Stupid White Men\\" reminded me of \\"Nickel and Dimed\\" by Barbara Ehrenreich. Oh the unfairness of it all! O tempora, O Mores! SWM is little more than a diatribe against all that is wrong with America. The principal target is W, the president of the United States. Moore takes careful aim at the stolen Florida election and does so in well -documented fashion. In fact, little is made up on these pages.  There is an impressive 18 pages of \\"Notes and Sources\\". Moore knows whatof he speaks.  The view here is so what? What can be done about it all? No real answers emerge.  One problem is that the author has lost the fresh, impudent innocence of \\"Roger and Me\\". He is no longer the poor kid from Flint, Michigan. Now he has some money in the bank-and it shows! (It also showed for Ms. Ehrenreich, who could quit her fake jobs anytime after publication date). Moore comes across as an angry, rich liberal when those in trouble are likely to be angry middle class or poor liberals! The author gets very high marks from this reviewer on one score: In his eyes, Bill Clinton and the Democrats are little better than W and the Republicans. That much is appallingly true and if enough of us get that particular message, then SWM has not been written in vain. Democrats are not so well meaning as they may appear. The bottom line: negative diatribes (the same word twice in a paragraph!) are not what this country needs these days.  I recommend passing SWM by.	2002-07-24
US	52139358	R2PSI7IYSE6ZJ	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Not Bad for an Unemployed Writer!	\\"The Prince\\" reminded me of Eric Hoffer's \\"The True Believer\\".  Both are full of aphorisms about life and the use of power. Power is gained, maintained and often lost. TP has sayings to aptly fit each situation. The sophomore political science major will quickly relate: \\"It's easier to hold power if you first gained it by ability than gained it by luck\\".  (W take heed!).  \\"Be feared but neither be hated nor loved\\". \\"Don't trust mercenaries\\". These may be trite but the author does include some cynically useful advice for the day our sophomore graduates to the real world: \\"One must be sometimes a lion and sometimes a fox. One avoids snares, the other avoids wolves.\\" \\"No one will lift you to your feet. If he does, it will only be to his advantage\\". \\"Make provisions in calm times. Build dikes and levies for the storms to come\\".  If carefully read, TP could be beneficial to the reader considering political life, to anyone faced with hardball office politics-or a boss who is a jerk.  TP does, to its credit, suggest purely defensive moves that one could use for self -preservation. This is on a higher plane than using dirty tricks to gain advantage.  One tactic I disagree with is the author's suggestion to always take sides in a dispute. (Win or lose, neither side will respect you when battle is done). What a way to make enemies! For such a short work, TP is strangely challenging. It is frequently repetitive, set in small typeface and the historical examples can be obscure, with references to Spartans, Persians, Medes, Moses, Cyrus the Great and old Popes. Students of history should still take a chance on TP.  They will undoubtedly learn from it.  TP first appeared in 1513(!) and is still selling. Old Niccolo, who was in exile at the time, must have done something right.	2002-07-24
US	52139358	R4Z5GGLO34E55	0060194774	769945410	Deadly Departure: Why The Experts Failed To Prevent The TWA Flight 800 Disaster And How It Could Happen Again	Books	4	26	30	N	N	Strong Medicine!	It's strange how many \\"unhelpful \\" internal amazon votes \\"Deadly Departure\\" has generated.  I'm attributing that to the reality that the subject matter, the investigation and aftermath of TWA Flight #800, is so highly emotional.  We amazon types obviously care about how our peers rate DD.  Give author Negroni credit: She attempted to get her arms around a challenging, difficult and technical story.  4 stories are interspersed: There are vignettes of various passengers and crew.  Then there are the fringe personalities-Governor Pataki, Rudy Giuliani, George Marlin (remember HIM?) and folks of that ilk-each with an \\"agenda\\". She writes of the unfortunate bureaucratic fighting and turf protecting among such agencies as the FBI and National Transportation Safety Board.  And finally she covers the technical aspects-especially the role of a potentially lethal empty center fuel tank on a 747. I give the author \\"A\\" for effort in attempting to tie so many ends together; all in a brief, large print 237-page hardcover tale. I would have decidedly preferred it if she had concentrated more on the ongoing investigations and technical aspects of the disaster. That's because the personal stories require space and a longer plot. Given the hideously serious nature of the crash, more light should be shed upon 1) the documented dangers of the fuel tanks-the military took corrective action concerning them that the cowardly Federal Aviation Administration has not for civil planes. 2) The hostile role of the FBI and its' refusal to cooperate with the NTSB. Thank God lead agent James Kallstrom has retired. 3) The future: the FAA must simply stop the practice of \\"counting tombstones\\". The idea that \\"it's better to have an occasional crash than pay for expensive safety changes\\" is disgraceful and immoral.  True enough, DD touches on these but loses them in the broad brush of a wider \\"human interest\\" tale.  That said, DD remains an important and serious book, but these problems merit the subtraction of one star. It actually made me lose two nights sleep!  I will definitely feel more nervous the next time I fly because I've been reminded that the bureaucrats at the FAA are watching the backs of the aviation industry, not mine or yours.  It is strong medicine and I recommend a dose.  DD touches sensitive nerves.  More power to it!	2002-07-19
US	52139358	R223GDV0TFK7SR	1886371083	865528490	Country Sunshine: The Dottie West Story	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Country Legend!	\\"Country Sunshine\\" is a lovingly told and quick reading biography of the late country music star, Dotty West (1932-1991). The cover specifies \\"An Unauthorized Biography\\" but CS struck this reviewer as thoroughly authentic. The authors had a connection with Dotty, I'm sure. CS concentrates on Dotty's early years, her incredibly hardscrabble childhood and struggle to become discovered.   The abuse Dotty suffered from her so-called father is utterly staggering. How did she recover? Perhaps she never completely did. I always believed Dotty had pain in her voice. Just listen to \\"Here Comes My Baby\\" or \\"Would You Hold It Against Me?\\"  The \\"good years\\" as a star receive minor treatment-all to the better enjoyment for the reader.  We certainly learn about the real human being/hurt child behind the music. The final chapters tell not just of her difficult final years with bankruptcy, divorces and tragic death in a car crash but of her spirit to fight back and reclaim her career. I believe she would have made it. If she survived that childhood mostly intact, she could overcome anything! Unless you plan to be in Ernest Tubb's Record Shop anytime soon, I recommend adding both \\"Country Sunshine\\" and her CD, \\"The Essential Dotty West\\", to your shopping cart.	2002-07-11
US	52139358	R2VSEIVTXQHDBE	0805068848	593111837	A Peace to End All Peace: The Fall of the Ottoman Empire and the Creation of the Modern Middle East	Books	4	17	20	N	Y	But Only the SERIOUS Need Apply!	A  &quot;Peace to End All Peace&quot; is the story of the aftermath of the collapse of the Ottoman (Turkish) Empire after its' defeat in WW 1. It traces the geographic origins of the &quot;modern&quot; Middle East. The author skillfully retells the dealings, double-dealings, betrayals, lies and shifting alliances in the key years of 1914-1922.  Don't be deceived by the limited time span. It is amazing how much can happen in 8 very short years!  The notes and bibliography encompass 51 pages!<BR> &quot;PTEAP&quot; is told primarily from a British viewpoint.  The reason is logical enough: England and Prime Minister Lloyd George held and dealt most of the cards in the endless game of building or at least maintaining Empires among the European powers; Britain, France, Italy and Greece. The reader can decide just how well or poorly the PM played-or overplayed- his hand. This Irish American reviewer will keep his opinions to himself. The PM was no friend of the Irish cause. Fear of Russia, both before and after that nation's Revolution lurks in the background. Also in the background is an uninvolved and newly isolationist United States.  Britain's fear of losing a land link to India is very much in the foreground. Britain's obsession with India is unexplored.  Readers learn how countries are created virtually by geographic whim. The modern nations of Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan, Israel and (basically) Iran are born. Puppet pro-British heads of state appear in Arabia, Iraq, Persia/Iran, and Jordan/ Transjordan -with varying degrees of &quot;success&quot;.  PTEAP' s time frame allows only for an excellent introduction but no resolution of a homeland for Jews in Palestine. The result is that PTEAP explores the bases for many of today's problems but does not explain or resolve them. This does not detract from the story's importance one bit. The foundations are laid in these pages.<BR>PTEAP is highly challenging and highly rewarding. Its sheer length and breadth demands patience on the part of the serious reader, but the patience will be rewarded! There are two caveats: One is that the mere casual reader should skip PTEAP and select a less formidable book. The other involves the absolute requirement (!) for a World Atlas to appreciate the geographical scope of the story.  As with most historical/military publications, the maps provided are of near total inadequacy. Why do editors permit this? For those two points, I deducted a star.  We graver types can add the 5th star back. I hope this review has done justice and encouraged serious history fans to buy &quot;A Peace to End All Peace&quot;.  Just remember the Atlas!	2002-07-11
US	52139358	R1S8J9TINMG327	0805068848	593111837	A Peace to End All Peace: The Fall of the Ottoman Empire and the Creation of the Modern Middle East	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	But Only the SERIOUS Need Apply!	A  &quot;Peace to End All Peace&quot; is the story of the aftermath of the collapse of the Ottoman (Turkish) Empire after its' defeat in WW 1. It traces the geographic origins of the &quot;modern&quot; Middle East. The author skillfully retells the dealings, double-dealings, betrayals, lies and shifting alliances in the key years of 1914-1922.  Don't be deceived by the limited time span. It is amazing how much can happen in 8 very short years!  The notes and bibliography encompass 51 pages!<br /> &quot;PTEAP&quot; is told primarily from a British viewpoint.  The reason is logical enough: England and Prime Minister Lloyd George held and dealt most of the cards in the endless game of building or at least maintaining Empires among the European powers; Britain, France, Italy and Greece. The reader can decide just how well or poorly the PM played-or overplayed- his hand. This Irish American reviewer will keep his opinions to himself. The PM was no friend of the Irish cause.And the author appears to be no friend of the PM! Fear of Russia, both before and after that nation's Revolution lurks in the background. Also in the background is an uninvolved and newly isolationist United States.  Britain's fear of losing a land link to India is very much in the foreground. Britain's obsession with India is unexplored.  Readers learn how countries are created virtually by geographic whim. The modern nations of Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan, Israel and (basically) Iran are born. Puppet pro-British heads of state appear in Arabia, Iraq, Persia/Iran, and Jordan/ Transjordan -with varying degrees of &quot;success&quot;.  PTEAP' s time frame allows only for an excellent introduction but no resolution of a homeland for Jews in Palestine. The result is that PTEAP explores the bases for many of today's problems but does not explain or resolve them. This does not detract from the story's importance one bit. The foundations are laid in these pages.<br />PTEAP is highly challenging and highly rewarding. Its sheer length and breadth demands patience on the part of the serious reader, but the patience will be rewarded! There are two caveats: One is that the mere casual reader should skip PTEAP and select a less formidable book. The other involves the absolute requirement (!) for a World Atlas to appreciate the geographical scope of the story.  As with most historical/military publications, the maps provided are of near total inadequacy. Why do editors permit this? For those two points, I deducted a star.  We graver types can add the 5th star back. I hope this review has done justice and encouraged serious history fans to buy &quot;A Peace to End All Peace&quot;.  Just remember the Atlas!ts sheer length and breadth demands patience on the part of the serious reader, but the patience will be rewarded! There are two caveats: One is that the mere casual reader should skip PTEAP and select a less formidable book. The other involves the absolute requirement (!) for a World Atlas to appreciate the geographical scope of the story.  As with most historical/military publications, the maps provided are of near total inadequacy. Why do editors permit this? For those two points, I deducted a star.  We graver types can add the 5th star back. I hope this review has done justice and encouraged serious history fans to buy &quot;A Peace to End All Peace&quot;.  Just remember the Atlas!	2002-07-11
US	52139358	RTCZL6PWBCAGM	0028642082	558540111	The Complete Idiot's Guide(R) to World Religions (2nd Edition)	Books	2	23	37	N	N	It's Religion Lite: Very Lite!	If one is searching nothing but potential cocktail party conversation about the various religions of the world, (s)he may well enjoy CIGTWR. The problem is many of us, including this reviewer, consider the subject from a serious angle.  As a \\"church shopping\\" lapsed Roman Catholic, I encountered little of note between the pages. As a practical matter folks like me will be examining the mainline Protestant Churches. This so-called \\"guide\\" offers 3 pages on all the various denominations! This was a guide to nowhere! Blocks of pages are devoted to Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism and Shinto.  This was all very nice, but with the possible exception of Confucianism, I won't retain a single iota of those chapters. To be fair to the authors, I have no doubt they meant well.  The publication is very well laid out.  The graphics are clear, well spaced and set in large type.  It is a fast read. This is a boost to those seeking a \\"religion lite\\" approach. For these readers, 4 stars are warranted. But for we remaining searching Pilgrims, only 2.	2002-07-08
US	52139358	R1GDB4RFNJS0YM	0060508094	846988628	Into the Mirror: The Life of Master Spy Robert P. Hanssen	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Not Bad!	\\"Into the Mirror\\" is the tale of Robert Hanssen; the FBI Agent caught selling secrets to the Russians.  The book apparently grew from the screenplay for a 4 hour CBS miniseries. And therein lies the rub!  ITM is a fast read, a once over lightly treatment, short on detail, motivations, investigations and backgrounds of the major characters. Those who prefer written tales presented in that fashion should enjoy ITM. I have no doubt that it was an interesting miniseries, fitting easily into a TV format. The bad news is that many of us prefer or even demand more meat on the bone! We must remember that Agent Hanssen's story is true crime and potentially fascinating true crime at that.  Yet we garner no sense of what transformed a career FBI man into a traitor. His career had progressed decently, his money problems were no worse than thousands of other upper middle class husbands and his demons from childhood no more serious than those afflicting many of us who DO NOT betray our countries.  Where was a motive? Why did he start cooperating with the Russians, cease for a time-only to resume after the Soviet Union had imploded? How did he totally avoid suspicion for so long? Hint: The FBI is lucky it caught this guy!  A more developed plot could have addressed these questions. The choice is yours, fellow amazon travelers. To use Ann Rule as a true crime barometer; for those who prefer \\"developed\\" plots as \\"Everything She Ever Wanted\\"; a 3 star rating is fair. Those who liked the simpler fare such as \\"The Want Ad Killer\\" can safely add a fourth star. At paperback prices, ITM is a low risk proposition.  Closing note: Author's \\"artistic license\\" was liberally used in composing scenes in ITM, not to any serious detriment.	2002-06-21
US	52139358	RFY8SYOQGESQ9	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Misses the Mark	I feel almost unpatriotic in giving Black Hawk less than a 5 star rating.  However, this story just did not work for me.  I consider it FAR from the military classic others apparently do.  By now, most of us know the drill: this is the account of the disastrous incursion to Somalia in early 1993 to capture a warlord. 18 GIs were killed in action and many more wounded. Since this took place very early in the Clinton Administration, I've always wondered if the outgoing George Bush didn't send in the original US troops as a \\"parting present\\" to the incoming President.  BH is not a first hand account but reconstructed through interviews and solid research. The author had the obvious cooperation of the military in so doing but the result is nonetheless second hand, reconstructed and even muddled.  I found it difficult to keep track of the men.  Also, given the small geographic scope of the action, I found it even harder to tell where all the units were.  As so often happens in military books, MAPS are inadequate.  BH soars when it concentrates on individuals, their backgrounds, barracks life, families, wives and girl friends back home.  Some of the ladies left behind are the most compelling characters in BH, especially those whose guys don't return.<BR>This may be the lowest rating of the 405 reviews of BH, but one has to call shots as he sees them. I'll be the first to admit that amazon readers may wish to keep scrolling down.  This review is NO reflection on the brave Rangers, \\"D boys\\" and 10th Division troops who fought and died in this engagement.	2002-05-13
US	52139358	R1H5MXCYDOUVBH	0380780410	557709897	A Warrant to Kill: A True Story of Obsession, Lies and a Killer Cop	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Disturbing True Crime	I feel a short review of books like \\"Warrant to Kill\\" are best because no one, however unintentionally, should give away the ending of a true crime story.  Set in Houston, WK is a first rate tale of murder of an innocent woman by a police officer. It is obvious early on that this cop never should have been issued a badge. I found WK personally disturbing because I believe there are more bad apples on most big city police forces than we care to admit. The resolution of the crime will definitely leave many readers dissatisfied. This is no fault of author Casey.  Was justice done in this instance? One will just have to read WK to find out for themself.  What I've always termed the \\"Ann Rule rule\\" is in effect! Do not read the centerfold pictures until the end! As in many true crime tales, they give away the ending.  Why do editors permit this?  WK is an absolutely safe choice for true crime fans, especially those that live in Texas.  Recommended!	2002-04-26
US	52139358	R2NP2T756R4Z0J	1892129272	915440749	Crash of the Titans: The Team that Became the New York Jets	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	T-I-T-A-N-S: Titans-Titans-Titans!!!	The Crash of the Titans represents good, solid sports reporting. It's fun reading.  It recalls the first 3 seasons (1960-62) of the New York Titans franchise of the American Football League, now known as the Jets.  It reminded me of the more wide open style of football the old AFL played and those late Sunday afternoon games on ABC with Curt Gowdy and Paul Christman.  The buttoned up, corporate NFL was never as much fun.  The central character is Harry Wismer, famous broadcaster of the 40s and 50s and the original owner of the Titans.  Harry was a George Steinbrenner of an earlier day, with all the bombast but sans the dough and without a Yankee Stadium.  The old AFL had some extremely wealthy owners; Harry was not one of them. The Titans played in Manhattan's ghostly Polo Grounds just waiting for Nirvana to rescue them.  \\"Nirvana\\" was the construction of Shea Stadium, which opened too late to save Wismer. The baseball Mets survived 2 seasons in the Polo Grounds, 3 for the Titans were too many. This is sad because the Titans were NOT losers but respectably mediocre with a high scoring offense, albeit no defense. The author's research is impressive, almost impeccable.  He interviewed over 50 former players, coaches and other reporters. He had the obvious cooperation of multiple sources.  He ably balances the on field action with the off the field.  There are some notable omissions. For one, there is an absence of any individual statistics, standings or rosters. There is also a dearth of photos.  Since Ryczek had so many contacts, their inclusion should have been easy. The one back cover photo left out LB Larry Grantham of Old Miss (Ole?), a future hero of Super Bowl 3! Four of the SB lll Jets once were Titans ( FL Don Maynard, RB Bill Mathis, K Curly Johnson and Larry). Jets fans, here are your roots! Read Crash of the Titans and discover them!  Super Bowl lll began here. We should not look back in life but after reading CT, I regret now I never went to a Titans game. With all those empty seats in the Polo Grounds, I certainly could have gotten in.  We Jets fans can easily add a 5th star to the above rating.	2002-04-26
US	52139358	R1X9BB3KV14PQO	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Are You Kidding?	... I first learned about \\"AP\\" by reading a True Crime classic, \\"Lethal Marriage\\" by Nick Pron. Paul Bernardo, the killer of that book, loved \\"AP\\". What a recommendation! Perhaps I was turned off by a work of fiction. As a native New Yorker, I was definitely turned off by the completely unbelieveable scenes and description of the City. We do NOT live this way! With so many superior works of true to life, cold blooded sickos available with the click of one's mouse, why waste time reading about sickos who never existed? Those who have read this far and are unfamiliar with \\"Lethal Marriage\\" should [check it out]. There is a reason why authors like Ann Rule are popular and \\"AP\\" is a perfect demonstration.  Truth is indeed stanger than fiction-and it makes better reading.	2002-04-16
US	52139358	RLFJ3N9ILZQR1	0060916125	581879090	The True Believer	Books	3	25	37	N	N	But For Which Age Group?	I wish I had read \\"The True Believer\\" while I was in college instead all the junk that was required back then. TB is full of \\"useful\\" aphorisms about mass political movements that any self- respecting political science major should appreciate: For example, \\"to wrong those we hate is to add fuel to our hatred. To treat our enemy with magnanimity is to blunt our hatred\\". Or (from Hitler) \\"If the Jew did not exist, we should have had to invent him.  We must have a tangible enemy, not merely an abstract one\\". How about: \\"an army is an instrument of preserving the present.  Mass movements serve to destroy the present'.  Or perhaps \\"it is easier to hate an enemy with some good in him than one who is all bad\\". I could provide more examples; I'm sure the picture is clear. TB is abidingly cynical, yet deadly accurate.  There are references to Hitler and Stalin that are chillingly on target. The challenge is to relate the ideas herein to real life or to current world crises. Will we now understand Arafat or the Taliban better than before? This reviewer is not sure how one is to do that. Given the textbook quality of TB, I have reservations as to how a non school age reader, either too old or too young, would handle its' academic nature. For those age groups, this is a 5 star work; for the rest of us a lower rating is more appropriate.  Those browsing amazon should be aware that TB first appeared in 1951 (!), with numerous reprintings.  Hoffer has plainly authored a serious work.  Who would most enjoy it is the question.	2002-04-15
US	52139358	R1HKP42FFN5VLK	1574881736	91479718	The Road to Victory: The Untold Story of World War Ii's Red Ball Express	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Trucks! Keep On Rollin'!!	&quot;The Road to Victory&quot; is not an old Bob Hope/Dorothy Lamour movie.  Instead,  RV tells the tale of World War 2 in Europe during the climactic months after the Normandy invasion of June 1944.  It does not dwell on heroics or bravery in combat.  Instead it is concerned with other heroics- the sheer logistical day by day avalanche of men and materiel that was required to supply the quickly advancing Allied Armies. Author Colley actually succeeds in shedding the crunching tonnage of Army Supply into a readable novel. From this Army veteran, that is high praise!   Key to it all was the Red Ball Express.  These were large truck convoys that raced across France from the Channel ports through Luxembourg and Belgium to the borders of Germany.  The majority of convoy drivers were African American, doing critical work for a segregated, often unappreciative and sometimes even hostile U.S. Army. This contrasts sharply with the more liberal Europeans they came in contact with. The author weaves interesting combinations: human interest in the hard working Black drivers, the difficulties and dangers they faced on the road, the military &quot;foul-ups&quot; (for lack of a stronger word), and enough statistics and numbers to warm the heart of any QMC or TC man. True, RV is a bit dry, but not to any detrimental effect.  This reviewer has read many military works and it's always gratifying to read one that explores a new story, a different angle or a fresh approach. RV is such a book. Once it appears in paperback, military history fans should pounce.  Civil Rights students should ignore the military jargon and strongly consider RV too.	2002-04-06
US	52139358	R2RHYSYK4XTUMA	006016848X	587492563	Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: A Practical Guide for Improving Communication and Getting What You Want in Your Relationships	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Why Not?	Men Are From Mars..&quot; is similar to most self-help writings in that it must not simply be read as a novel and discarded. Doing so will produce no benefit to the reader whatsoever. Don't bother with MAFM if searching for short-term miracles. The astute reader will take notes and refer back to them from time to time.  (S)he should expect no immediate, glossy results.  Was this reviewer helped by MAFM? Ask me a year or two from now.  One particular nugget: 90% of what we believe is bothering us is caused by an incident from the past, not the current crisis itself. Another: &quot;Would you&quot; beats &quot;Could you&quot;. Get the picture?  What do we have to lose?	2002-04-04
US	52139358	R10RUB2WM4WJAF	0684865475	247231538	Joe DiMaggio : The Hero's Life	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Give Credit Where Credit Is Due	This biography gave every outward indication that it was to be a hatchet job.  Mr. Cramer, it was obvious, was no admirer of the Yankee Clipper.  I purposely would not pay hard cover prices, expecting the worst- a poorly, narrowly written and easily forgettable bio. My mistake. While Mr. Cramer did indeed set out to attack DI Maggio, he ambitiously supports his story in full detail.  It's all here- the selfishness, the pettiness, the mistreatment of family and friends, the major freeloading, the perpetual and singular concern with \\"his image\\" and the lonely mystery of his final years.  Joe's marriage to Marilyn Monroe is covered thoroughly, perhaps to excess.  One has to wonder who misused whom in that relationship.  In retrospect, I would like to have read more about wife #1, Dorothy Arnold. Cramer informs us only that she \\"died in Mexico\\". The reader will also be in the dark about details on Joe DiMaggio Jr.  Why did he and Marilyn get along so well? What did he do in the Marines during the early Vietnam era? Cramer also fails to explain the gaping gap in Joe Senior's \\"middle years\\", after Marilyn's \\"suicide\\". These complaints aside, Cramer has done a first rate job of investigative biography: We learn of Joe's mob contacts and the \\"related connection\\" with the Bowery Savings Bank; his intimate moments with Marilyn; his planned remarriage (!) to Monroe, his $600,000 cash stash rescued after the San Francisco Earthquake and his frustration with his soft gig playing Army baseball in WW 2.   Compare his experiences with those of the Red Sox' Ted Williams, who was highly decorated in WW2 and Korea! Joe hated Ted. Other sordid details of Joe's bizarre life abound.  I assume the charges are true since 1) Cramer has obviously done his homework and 2) it is patently obvious that Joe accumulated enough enemies and/or former friends who were happy to sling some mud in his direction.  Is there any baseball news between the covers? There certainly is but the sport almost appears as a side light to this unflattering personal portrait of a baseball hero. This work is highly recommended, with one star deducted for its' pervasively negative tone.	2002-03-08
US	52139358	R3KVVGL25PKCMX	0316106178	429876240	Stork Club: America's Most Famous Nightspot and the Lost World of Cafe Society	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Ah! The Good Old Days!!	\\"Stork Club\\" is a pleasant surprise. It is the remarkably well- researched story of a one-time bootlegger from Oklahoma, by way of Washington and Detroit, named Sherman Billingsley. The author had the obvious cooperation of Billingley's daughter. Mr. B ran Manhattan's Stork Club from the mid- 30s to the mid -60s. Located on East 53rd Street, it was arguably the world's most famous nightclub, when there were such things.  \\"SC\\" deals relatively briefly with the glamorous caf society clientele such as Ethel Merman, Humphrey Bogart or the Duke and Duchess of Windsor. It concentrates on the harder edges of Mr. Bs life; the bootlegging days in the Midwest, his  (successful?) fight to free himself from the mobsters like Dutch Schultz and Owney Madden, needless run ins with Civil Rights activists and the ultimately ruinous struggles with local unions.  Mr. B was always fighting something including internal theft, a fickle public and disloyal employees who left him to start their own nightclubs.  He appears to have been his own worst enemy. \\"SC\\" ends on an unsurprisingly depressive note. This reviewer would definitely recommend \\"SC\\" to any native New Yorker of a \\"certain age\\" or those curious about an earlier, VASTLY more gracious, more livable and more desirable New York than the current yuppie playground it has become. ...Mr. B had the well-deserved reputation of being kind to young people and servicemen.  My two visits to the Stork, just prior to its demise bore this out.  They were nice to my date and me. ... This must have been a high-class place in its day, a \\"day\\" that is gone for good.  \\"SC\\" is your chance to at least read about it and imagine.	2002-02-22
US	52139358	R3V1CVFQQHFW25	0451166884	368946078	The Want-Ad Killer (True Crime)	Books	4	57	59	N	N	Good Early Ann	\\"The Want Ad Killer\\" represents good early Ann Rule when, for whatever reason, she wrote as Andy Stack. It is the frightening tale of Harvey Carignan, a serial killer who terrorized young women in both the Seattle and Twin Cities during the late '70s. The all too apt title refers to a teenage girl who was abducted after answering a \\"planted\\" classified ad.  \\"WAK\\" is short, concise, no nonsense true crime. It is told as a police story, with little courtroom drama or legal maneuvering. There are also none of the longer, more involved sub plots of the authoress' later stories such as \\"And Never Let Her Go\\" or \\"Everything She Ever Wanted\\", making this a good choice for readers unfamiliar with her work.  For the few Ann fans that have yet to read \\"WAK\\", don't think twice.  A word of warning: The Ann Rule rule is in effect. Do not look at the centerfold photos or the book's cover. Far too much is revealed therein.  Keep yourself in suspense for as long as possible. Parents of teenage girls will keep their daughters locked up after reading this one.<br /><br />Update: A helpful amazon fan informed me that \\"True Detective\\" magazine believed that Ann would not be taken seriously writing as a female-despite her true life experience as a Seattle cop. The Stack is a contraction of her maiden name (Stackhouse). Andy is the name of her son. The record is straight!	2002-02-17
US	52139358	R352UOXAA6QE93	0316106178	429876240	Stork Club: America's Most Famous Nightspot and the Lost World of Cafe Society	Books	4	3	3	N	N	AH! The Good Old Days..	\\"Stork Club\\" is a pleasant surprise. It is the remarkably well- researched story of a one-time bootlegger from Oklahoma, by way of Washington and Detroit, named Sherman Billingsley. The author had the obvious cooperation of Billingley's daughter. Mr. B ran Manhattan's Stork Club from the mid- 30s to the mid -60s. Located on East 53rd Street, it was arguably the world's most famous nightclub, when there were such things.  \\"SC\\" deals relatively briefly with the glamorous caf society clientele such as Ethel Merman, Humphrey Bogart or the Duke and Duchess of Windsor. It concentrates on the harder edges of Mr. Bs life; the bootlegging days in the Midwest, his  (successful?) fight to free himself from the mobsters like Dutch Schultz and Owney Madden, needless run ins with Civil Rights activists and the ultimately ruinous struggles with local unions.  Mr. B was always fighting something including internal theft, a fickle public and disloyal employees who left him to start their own nightclubs.  He appears to have been his own worst enemy. \\"SC\\" ends on an unsurprisingly depressive note. This reviewer would definitely recommend \\"SC\\" to any native New Yorker of a \\"certain age\\" or those curious about an earlier, VASTLY more gracious, more livable and more desirable New York than the current yuppie playground it has become. A personal note: Mr. B had the well-deserved reputation of being kind to young people and servicemen.  ....  \\"SC\\" is your chance to at least read about it and imagine.	2002-02-17
US	52139358	R1LL3YVBV7DLAO	0671735578	361874117	How to Read a Person Like a Book	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Readers Have Nothing to Lose	Is that guy with the open jacket trustworthy and open-minded? Is the person with locked ankles worried or tense? What about that cute girl stroking her hair- or who just removed her glasses while you were speaking? All these gestures-and more- are examined in \\"How to Read a Person Like a Book\\".  Mr. Nierenberg's work reminds me of Norman Vincent Peale's \\"The Power of Positive Thinking\\".  Both are virtually useless if read as novels and put away.  But I believe both can be vital if kept and referred back to from time to time.  Mr. Nierenberg's main message is to watch other's body language: Do they show their hands or hide them? Do they look you in the eye or look away? Do they keep swallowing or clearing their throat? This is all very interesting and potentially useful.  The author issues a caveat: We must be on guard for false or accidental signals. Perhaps the cute girl stroking her hair can't stand the sight of you. The guy clearing his throat may be the honest man in town-with a bad cold.  Others  (who have also read the book) could be \\"manipulating the system\\" and using it against you! A former boss springs to mind.  I intend to try using the principles in \\"How to Read\\" in real life and watching the results. After all, the reader can use these principles on others! Taken with a grain of salt, what do we have to lose for $5.99? I refer back periodically to Dr. Peale and intend the same with Nierenberg.  There is definite potential value here.  Life's experience will be the ultimate teacher.	2002-02-16
US	52139358	RKEZAXW9LZ8XH	0809223937	355472292	Cotton Bowl Days: Growing Up with Dallas and the Cowboys in the 1960s	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Paging Eddie Le Baron !	Cotton Bowl Days\\" is the story of the EARLY Dallas Cowboys, well before the franchise became known as \\"Americas Team\\".   We read how they suffered as an expansion team during those early seasons in the distinctly unglamorous, blue collar, beloved, inner city Cotton Bowl. Cowboy fans will remember the guys from the early days: Billy Howton, Don McIlhenny, L.G. Dupre and a \\"messenger quarterback\\" system featuring veteran Eddie Le Baron and, fresh from the SMU campus, Don Meredith.  Of particular interest is the early 60s battle between the NFL Cowboys and the AFL Dallas Texans (now the Kansas City Chiefs) for the limited supply of local football fans.  We suffer as the new franchise struggles. It proceeds to suffer the double edged sword blessing of attaining success in the late 60s, only to lose 2 NFL Championship Games to the Green Bay Packers, 2 Eastern Division Titles to the Cleveland Browns, and Super Bowl 5 to the Baltimore Colts. In the course of the 1971 season, the franchise moves to the distinctly more upscale Texas Stadium- with prices to match- and finally wins a big one, Super Bowl 6. \\"CBD\\" ends here, with the albatross of \\"losers\\" removed.  The author, a Dallas native, is plainly dismissive of yuppified Texas Stadium and its, unrowdy, sedate, suburban fans.  They probably drank white wine instead of Lone Star! Any New Yorker who remembers the old Madison Square Garden on 8th Avenue will identify.  \\"CBD\\" is fine as far as it goes, but contains a few weak points: There are too many tales of the Eisenberg family.  The narrative often has the feel of newspaper clippings accurately and timely researched but coldly strung together. I would have enjoyed reading where more of the early guys are today. Eisenberg's failure to secure an interview with Don Meredith, or to even mention his Monday Night Football Days, is a huge minus. The author also fails to cover the arrest of receiver Bob Hayes.  What happened to him in the joint? Does the author care? Could one write of the Kennedy Administration and leave out Jackie and Robert?  This reviewer could still honestly recommend \\"CBD\\" to a limited audience of football junkies, those who crave sports tales from the 60s, and most natives of \\"Big D\\". For them, there is much tradition between the pages of \\"CBD\\".  Others should think twice. The author, now a Baltimore native, may have proven that you can't go home again. His forthcoming history on the Baltimore Orioles may be more to his calling.	2002-02-16
US	52139358	R1NSWUZR6EOG2S	0451403878	309743232	Murder Machine (Onyx True Crime)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Real New York True Crime	\\"Murder Machine\\" is the well-researched tale of a Brooklyn based crew from the Gambino mob family.  Capos Roy Demeo and Nino Gaggi, and a \\"soldier\\" and former Green Beret Vietnam veteran, Dominick Montiglio, are the principal characters.  The supporting cast of wiseguys and goodfellas are gritty and lifelike.  Veteran New York Daily News reporters Capeci and Mustain have done their homework. Names, dates, places, faces, rubouts, deals gone bad, and deals that went down fly by in a kaleidoscope of New York crime- Brooklyn style. This is Paul Castellano's part of the family, not (!) to be confused with the \\"Manhattan faction\\" led by Aniello Dellacroce.  This is hard core big city crime- far from the glamorized and glorified Mafia of Mario Puzo.  The men of \\"MM\\" meet their fate in grizzly fashion with no (relatively) peaceful \\"sleeping with the fishes\\" deaths. The authors perform admirably in humanizing the settings and involving the reader with wives girlfriends, families and innocent bystanders alike.  How could you not like Denise Montiglio or Carol Di Nome? In fact, this reviewer thought the criminals were more likeable than some of the cops. Detective McCabe and especially Detective Coffey were just plain boorish by the conclusion. Two weak points deserve mention: 1) The story of the prosecution was too verbose-especially the tales of office politics in the U.S. Attorneys offices. 2) A map of Brooklyn would have helped. Even most New Yorkers could not find Canarsie or Bath Beach on their own! 4 stars should be an honest evaluation, since \\"MM\\" is a tad too long. A final note: Some reviewers had had trouble with Dominick Montiglio's veracity. I would point out that there is a ton of backup evidence to support all the subsequent prosecutions.   Guys like Capeci and Mustain have their \\"sources\\". Rest assured that \\"Murder Machine\\" is not a work of fiction!	2002-01-24
US	52139358	R3LDZ8D2VS438M	0345314603	890239476	Five Years to Freedom: The True Story of a Vietnam POW	Books	5	11	14	N	N	5 Stars But....	&quot;5 years to Freedom&quot; is the story of the great perseverance and courage shown by Army Lt. James Rowe during his captivity in the Mekong Delta area of South Vietnam from 1963-1968.  Its' style is highly disciplined, which no doubt is a positive reflection on the author.  Rowe writes with a sharp eye for detail, another positive reflection on him and his West Point/Green Beret background. He writes in plain English (the way the Army likes it), with the result that no military glossary is needed to fully appreciate the action.  He also accomplishes the feat of putting a human face on his captors and guards, though not always a complimentary one.  The reader is in virtual in captivity with Rowe while he prepares his meals, scrounges what he can (typical Army!), begs for what he can't, suffers multiple and graphic physical ailments and even raises some pets. Rowe was obviously a political/ propaganda toy to be manipulated by the Viet Cong. Exactly why this was so goes unexplained. Also unexplained is why the U.S. made NO ATTEMPT to rescue Rowe. The author, as a career military man, is not the one to pursue an answer.  One major shortcoming of &quot;FYF&quot; is the total inadequacy of the one scrawny map in the paperback edition. Since most Vietnam Vets served North of Saigon, the Delta Region, especially the notorious U Minh Forest, is a geographic mystery to most of us. A good map would have clarified matters, but this shortfall is a common enough theme in military stories. In this reviewer's bottom line opinion, readers will derive a sharper understanding of the POW situation from 1) Frank Anton's &quot;Why Didn't You Get Me Out&quot;? and 2) George J. Veith's &quot; Code Name Bright Light&quot;. Both raise the  issue of inadequate U.S. response and interest in our POWs, a governmental attitude persisting to this day.  Mr. Anton both depicts his pain and suffering in captivity and raises the big picture of the POWs. (As of 1 January, 2002- 1,948 Americans remain unaccounted for). On stand-alone merits, &quot;Five Years to Freedom&quot; still rates 5 full stars. It's just that there are superior 5 star efforts available on this emotional issue.	2002-01-10
US	52139358	R2XE64Z3TXCOV	0393321983	118505272	Strangers on a Train	Books	3	4	13	N	N	Hitchcock over Highsmith!	Yes. I realize that the book is usually better than the movie. &quot;Strangers on A Train&quot; is the exception to the rule. I was elated when the paperback came back into print. Perhaps my expectations were too high after reading &quot;Those Who Walk Away&quot;. My basic complaint is that the book is too long: The reader will quickly realize that neither of the principal male characters, Bruno or Guy, are wrapped too tightly. The authoress devotes too much time and space in establishing that blatantly obvious fact. The story could easily have been shortened by 50 pages.  The Hitchcock movie, at least the American version, concentrated on Guy's potential problems with the police.  Highsmith chose to utilize a now you see him/now you don't private investigator.  (Ineffectual police work is a recurring theme with the authoress, while the director was usually the opposite). I believe the authoress further lost her way when she decided to write &quot;SOT&quot; as a psychological tale rather than a straight crime story. I must acknowledge that the book is being held against a very high movie classic standard. Such comparisons are not completely fair to Ms. Highsmith, but they are also irresistible.	2001-12-20
US	52139358	R2DCT1PYEC5A6G	0394743091	604113786	A Vietcong Memoir: An Inside Account of the Vietnam War and Its Aftermath	Books	5	123	129	N	N	The Other Side of A 5 Sided Coin !!	\\" A Viet Cong Memoir\\" is an intriguing historical account of the \\"other side\\" of the Vietnam War. Mr. Truong was a member of the National Liberation Front, as opposed to an actual military  guerilla.  The media always referred to the NLF as \\"the political arm of the Viet Cong\\".  That always struck me as a dark, typical Vietnam type mystery. With \\"VCM\\", the NLF has a human face to go with the mystery.  Right from the outset, any Vietnam vet as myself must take a story told by a VC with several grains of salt!  Mr. Troung is beyond a doubt engaging in a bit of revisionist history, painting the indigenous (Southern) Vietnamese NLF in a fairer light than the more taciturn, hard core Communist Northern invaders.  (...) A decent awareness of the conflict is needed to fully appreciate the book. With all these constraints aside, \\"VCM\\" rates as 5 star history. This should be required reading for serious students of the War, almost on a par with Bernard Fall's epic \\"Street Without Joy\\".  The reasons are many: Troung is an excellent writer, both at once engagingly formal yet abidingly down to earth. Well educated, well connected and intelligent, he was involved with the NLF from the early 1950s-the French era of the War. The reader senses Troung's commitment to Ho Chi Minh's cause right from the time he meets \\"Uncle Ho\\" as a student in Paris. I believe that he believed in Ho's aphorisms-  \\"liberty sweet liberty\\", \\"victory great victory\\", etc. Since Troung was not a jungle guerilla, the military side of the conflict is not emphasized here. Four major aspects of the War are mentioned; these are the book's strengths. 1) The reader will understand how the nation of South Vietnam ran and eventually disintegrated. The author paints a grim picture of a string of venal, petty and authoritative Saigon regimes. Troung came from an upper class Southern family and was well placed to report accurately.He even does time in a dank Saigon prison. Typical for Vietnam, his wife springs him with a bribe! 2) For a foreigner, the author had an excellent (!) grasp of the American political scene. The Vietnamese must have seen the U.S. letting the War slip away long before we did. 3) \\"VCM\\" is the only place I have read a fair, balanced and nuanced version of the back room deals at the 5-year debacle known as \\"The Paris Peace Talks\\". There was actually an ebb and flow, a system of sorts.  Did Henry Kissinger blink? Was he outfoxed? Or, as the author seems to suggest, were he and Nixon just out of maneuvering room? 4) Critically, Troung takes pains to paint the South Vietnam oriented NLF as a kinder, gentler \\"third way\\" between the real bad guys (the Saigon regimes and their American cronies) and the hard core Marxists from Hanoi. The NLF wanted to set up a quasi-independent government in Saigon that would allow for the obvious differences between the 2 Vietnams. The infighting was intense and the \\"good guys\\", if that's what they really were, got stiffed good and hard. I chose to take Troung at his word; other readers may disagree.  As a finale, \\"VCM\\" offers a rare, poignant, and touching chapter on the refugees known as the \\"boat people\\". I used to think that \\"Vietnam\\" consisted of that remote, little dusty Engineer camp I lived in for a year. Then I started reading other folk's far (!) more earthy accounts of RVN. 30 years after coming home, I continue to be ASTOUNDED by how many stories and sides there are to this foggy and mysterious place. \\"VCM\\" makes some sense out of the mystery. Then again, this being Vietnam, it may deepen it! Night always did fall quickly over there.a bribe! 2) For a foreigner, the author had an excellent (!) grasp of the American political scene. The Vietnamese must have seen the U.S. letting the War slip away long before we did. 3) \\"VCM\\" is the only place I have read a fair, balanced and nuanced version of the back room deals at the 5-year debacle known as \\"The Paris Peace Talks\\". There was actually an ebb and flow, a system of sorts.  Did Henry Kissinger blink? Was he outfoxed? Or, as the author seems to suggest, were he and Nixon just out of maneuvering room? 4) Critically, Troung takes pains to paint the South Vietnam oriented NLF as a kinder, gentler \\"third way\\" between the real bad guys (the Saigon regimes and their American cronies) and the hard core Marxists from Hanoi. The NLF wanted to set up a quasi-independent government in Saigon that would allow for the obvious differences between the 2 Vietnams. The infighting was intense and the \\"good guys\\", if that's what they really were, got stiffed good and hard. I chose to take Troung at his word; other readers may disagree.  As a finale, \\"VCM\\" offers a rare, poignant, and touching chapter on the refugees known as the \\"boat people\\". I used to think that \\"Vietnam\\" consisted of that remote, little dusty Engineer camp I lived in for a year. Then I started reading other folk's far (!) more earthy accounts of RVN. 30 years after coming home, I continue to be ASTOUNDED by how many stories and sides there are to this foggy and mysterious place. \\"VCM\\" makes some sense out of the mystery. Then again, this being Vietnam, it may deepen it! Night always did fall quickly over there.	2001-12-03
US	52139358	R3V4EU7RH0AAFL	0440204429	652064883	Perfect Victim: The True Story of the Girl in the Box	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Gritty and Real True Crime	&quot;Perfect Victim&quot; tells the bizarre story of a young woman kidnapped while hitchhiking from Oregon to her home in California in 1977. Colleen Stan is sadistically kept prisoner for most of 7 years. She is forced to spend many nights in a small box; a &quot;dungeon&quot; would be too generous a description. She is raped, tortured and just plain denigrated by her captors, Cameron and Jan Hooker.  In the process she becomes their virtual slave. Apparently &quot;brainwashed&quot;, she ignores opportunities to escape.  This is the most difficult part of the plot for the reader to fathom.  Why didn't Colleen run? Was she truly brainwashed? This reviewer believes she was, but others will certainly disagree.  Suddenly! Colleen is a free woman and the wheels of justice begin to spin.  The second half of &quot;PV&quot; is concerned with the arrest and trial of the Hookers. In a special -and positive- twist, a co-author, Christine McGuire, is the prosecutor! As an author, she may favor her position. She takes an obvious shot or two at the defense counsel, but who can blame her, given the low life of a defendant? I firmly believe reviewers should not divulge endings (or how Colleen became &quot;free&quot;), so I will end quickly. &quot;PV&quot; is definitely recommended to true crime devotees. The only drawbacks are the disturbing nature of the plot and the amount of space devoted to the trial. It could have been edited down, but this is a minor detail. Who can blame author McGuire for writing about prosecutor McGuire? It's unclear if &quot;PV&quot; is readily available. My advice is to persist in finding a copy.	2001-11-25
US	52139358	R2F5EF2XCSPUZY	0440304245	477593969	American Caesar	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	5 Star General: 5 Star Book !	&quot;American Caesar&quot; is a highly literate, extremely well researched biography of General Douglas MacArthur.  Since the General's Army career spanned almost 50 years, the time sweep of &quot;AC&quot; is quite extensive, but Mr. Manchester maintains reader interest throughout.  As a work of history, it should qualify as a masterpiece. The strongest point of &quot;AC&quot; is that the persona of the General never gets lost in a sea of facts or too many characters.  It remains a biography, first and foremost. The reader always is aware that s(he) is reading about a human being- with strong points and weak points just like all of us. I was impressed with the obvious importance of family, especially his wife and son to the General. Major historical figures like F.D.R. and Harry Truman take a backseat to the main character. Some readers might maintain that is exactly where they belong! While &quot;AC&quot; covers the General's heroism in World War I, the focus is on his military campaigns in World War II. Great detail is given to his controversial and hazardous- initial retreat from the Philippines to Australia and his push back north, capturing strategic New Guinea and retaking the Philippines.  To his credit, author Manchester, a former Marine, strives to demonstrate that the General's tactics saved thousands of U.S. casualties, compared to the frontal assaults on other Pacific islands such as Iwo Jima and Okinawa. For example, the General bypassed and isolated the strong Japanese garrison on Rabaul in eastern New Guinea, rather than attack in force. He also talked the Navy and Marines down from a senseless, hazardous and tactically useless invasion of Formosa (Taiwan). His casualty rates are also compared very favorably to those incurred by General Dwight Eisenhower at Normandy and the Bulge. (The two did not exactly admire one another).  If there are any weak points in &quot;AC&quot;, they are minor.  One could argue that the bio of the General is not sufficiently critical, but this reader would defer license to a talented author. One could also argue that too much space is allocated to the General's troubles with Harry Truman during the Korean War. Since so many identify the General with that particular segment of his career, it would be difficult for Manchester to pass lightly over it. (The author does not exactly admire HST). A note of warning: The MAPS in the paperback version of &quot;AC&quot; are too small for a close following of the SW Pacific War. If amazon could offer a large print/ hardcover version of &quot;AC&quot;, the extra cost would be worth it.  I used a magnifying glass!  Inadequate maps seem to be a requirement for military tales  &quot;AC&quot; has plenty of company in this regard. I hope this review has done credit to a first rate work of historical biography. Over 844 pages, followers of history and military affairs will not be disappointed.	2001-11-04
US	52139358	R55224LYLAESA	0809223945	876266818	Dynasty : The New York Yankees 1949-1964	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	NOT the Boss' Yankees!	\\"Dynasty\\" is a solid, linear, year by year (one year=one chapter) account of the great post World War 2 New York Yankees baseball teams. It does not, to its credit, lose itself in game by game recapping. It is far stronger, in this reviewer's opinion, than Roger Kahn's \\"The Boys of Summer\\", which dealt with the Brooklyn Dodgers of the same era. Kahn frequently intruded into the story, with personal opinions and observations. Golenbock, to his further credit, writes as a good unbiased reporter, rarely encroaching into the text.     The author is an excellent interviewer who was quite able to gather the cooperation of his subjects. Unlike Mr. Kahn, he never covered the Yankees daily for a newspaper but this detracts in no way from the story. The players shine through very clearly, thanks in large measure to the solid interviews. Golenbock does not concentrate on the big stars, as did Roger Kahn. He instead draws in men like Ryne Duren, Johnny Blanchard, Joe Pepitone, Ralph Terry, Tom Sturdivant and Bob Grim, So many of these guys, we now remember, had such a brief time in the sun before fate or injuries ended their careers or reduced them to mediocrity. Did Mr. Kahn interview Rube Walker, Erv Palica or Bobby Morgan? Thanks to poignant talks with Terry, Blanchard and Clete Boyer we are treated to an inside look at the front office politics/ backstabbing that led to Ralph Houk \\"ascending\\" to the General Managers chair, being rapidly succeeded by Yogi Berra, Johnny Keane and Houk himself again! Very little mud is thrown around, with the exception of Houk. Here is a \\"nice guy\\" exposed as a smoke blowing scoundrel, who made guys like Tommy Tresh and Roger Maris play hurt. I never did like the Major, war hero or not. Now I know why. The office politics behind the dismissals of veteran broadcasters Mel Allen and Red Barber are also covered. Golenbock throws in an eye opening recounting of the team's \\"goodwill\\" trip to Japan after the '55 series. That little jaunt produced some serious long term shifts on the club.    There are few \\"Ball Four\\" revelations in \\"Dynasty\\" and there is no need for such. This book can stand on its own two feet! There are perpetual, if minor, weaknesses. 1)\\"Dynasty\\", as do so many publications, cries out for an editor and fact checker. I attended or watched on several of the games retold here and have a VASTLY differing recollection of events i.e.: that crucial September '61 doubleheader (!) showdown with the Tigers and Frank Howard's 450 foot ground rule (!) double off Whitey Ford in Game 1 of the '63 series. That one was right under my nose! Was the author there? Also, the Dodgers' Billy Loes really DID lose a ground ball in the sun during the '52 World Series. 2) Contradictions are found often: How many years can Andy Carey be a rookie? 3) Some non-baseball facts (a Roger Kahn specialty) are \\"misaligned\\". Country singer Charley Pride is confused with Charley Rich (!), and two Vietnam War timelines (Kahn again) are flatly incorrect. For the record, the two Tonkin Gulf destroyers were the Maddox and C. Turner Joy. Finally, a wimpy two page epilogue tries to \\"connect the dots\\" from the post WW2 \\"DYNASTY\\" to the Steinbrenner \\"dynasty\\". Such comparisons are unfair and derogatory to both. These rants are enough to subtract a star to the rating above. This should not detract from the big picture, since \\"Dynasty\\" is so broad in scope.  These criticisms do not detract from 654 solid pages of research, interviewing and writing. \\"Dynasty\\" belongs on the bookshelf of any serious New York baseball fan. Any fan of a \\"certain age\\" is absolutely cheating him/herself by not reading it.	2001-09-20
US	52139358	RPDDQQ2OC7SXA	0809223945	876266818	Dynasty : The New York Yankees 1949-1964	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	NOT the Boss' Yankees!	&quot;Dynasty&quot; is a solid, linear, year by year (one year=one chapter) account of the great post World War 2 New York Yankees baseball teams. It does not, to its credit, lose itself in game by game recapping. It is far stronger, in this reviewer's opinion, than Roger Kahn's &quot;The Boys of Summer&quot;, which dealt with the Brooklyn Dodgers of the same era. Kahn frequently intruded into the story, with personal opinions and observations. Golenbock, to his further credit, writes as a good unbiased reporter, rarely encroaching into the text. The author is an excellent interviewer who was quite able to gather the cooperation of his subjects. Unlike Mr. Kahn, he never covered the Yankees daily for a newspaper but this detracts in no way from the story. The players shine through very clearly, thanks in large measure to the solid interviews. Golenbock does not concentrate on the big stars, as did Roger Kahn. He instead draws in men like Ryne Duren, Johnny Blanchard, Joe Pepitone, Ralph Terry, Tom Sturdivant and Bob Grim, So many of these guys, we now remember, had such a brief time in the sun before fate or injuries ended their careers or reduced them to mediocrity. Did Mr. Kahn interview Rube Walker, Erv Palica or Bobby Morgan? Thanks to poignant talks with Terry, Blanchard and Clete Boyer we are treated to an inside look at the front office politics/ backstabbing that led to Ralph Houk &quot;ascending&quot; to the General Managers chair, being rapidly succeeded by Yogi Berra, Johnny Keane and Houk himself again! Very little mud is thrown around, with the exception of Houk. Here is a &quot;nice guy&quot; exposed as a smoke blowing scoundrel, who made guys like Tommy Tresh play hurt.I never did like the Major, war hero or not. Now I know why. The office politics behind the dismissals of veteran broadcasters Mel Allen and Red Barber are also covered.There are few &quot;Ball Four&quot; revelations in &quot;Dynasty&quot; and there is no need for such. This book can stand on its own two feet! There are perpetual, if minor, weaknesses. 1)&quot;Dynasty&quot;, as do so many publications, cries out for an editor and fact checker. I attended or watched on several of the games retold here and have a VASTLY differing recollection of events (i.e.: that crucial September '61 doubleheader (!) showdown with the Tigers and Frank Howard's 450 foot ground rule (!) double off Whitey Ford in Game 1 of the '63 series. That one was right under my nose! Was the author there?) 2) Contradictions are found often: In many years can Andy Carey be a rookie? 3) Some non-baseball facts (a Roger Kahn specialty) are &quot;misalligned&quot;. Country singer Charley Pride is confused with Charley Rich (!), and two Vietnam War timelines (Kahn again) are flatly incorrect. For the record, the two Tonkin Gulf destroyers were the Maddox and C. Turner Joy. Finally, a wimpy two page epilogue tries to &quot;connect the dots&quot; from the post WW2 &quot;DYNASTY&quot; to the Steinbrenner &quot;dynasty&quot;. Such comparisons are unfair and derogatory to both. This should not detract from the larger picture, since &quot;Dynasty&quot; is a large picture effort. These criticisms do not detract from 560 solid pages of research, interviewing and writing. &quot;Dynasty&quot; belongs on the bookshelf of any serious New York baseball fan. Any fan of a &quot;certain age&quot; is absolutely cheating him/herself by not reading it. Christmas is coming fast. In baseball terms, here is a &quot;can't miss prospect&quot; as a stocking stuffer.	2001-09-20
US	52139358	R1O247R0JA1KA1	0345413105	355558224	Actual Innocence	Books	1	0	2	N	Y	What Did I Miss?	This was beyond all doubt, the most disappointing book I have read in years. In fact, I must admit I did not finish &quot;Actual Innocence&quot;. I gave up and gave it to Goodwill!  Was this reallly the same author who produced &quot;Death in White Bear Lake&quot;? Oh well.....	2001-09-03
US	52139358	R3HEUPB0C6TCPM	0871132591	484324015	Those Who Walk Away	Books	4	16	18	N	Y	Done Just Right	&quot;Those Who Walk Away&quot; is a concise, fast reading novel of low-keyed suspense. The background is an appropriately gloomy wintertime Venice. Ray, the key character, has lost his wife to suicide. Ed is the unforgiving, not to mention self-centered, father in law who blames Ray for his daughter's death and tries to kill him.  Ray pursues Ed through the canals, back streets, cafes, gondola rides and fancy hotels of Venice to clear his conscience and calm Ed down.  The embittered Ed has none of this and chases Ray in the same fashion. Both find atmospheric Venetian &quot;hiding places&quot;. To use a movie term, Highsmith makes use of an excellent supporting cast: Signor Ciardi, Inez, Luigi the gondolier and Elisabetta almost steal the show from the main characters.  Highsmith also pulls the reader into the plot quickly, a talent of hers. We are involved from page one! The ending, which no reviewer should reveal, is smooth and satisfying. To fully enjoy the tale, the reader must surrender credibility on 2 points: 1) Those &quot;meetings&quot; between Ed and Ray are truly coincidental and 2) The Venetian police, as personified by Detective Dell'Isola, ask few questions and press few charges. I would give the author her license on those points and enjoy &quot;TWWA&quot; on its own merits. A closing question: Did Ray really let a nice Italian girl like Elisabetta get away? Did he ever go back to Venice to see her just once more?	2001-08-17
US	52139358	R1EDQLNR3SONM2	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	2	12	22	N	N	Wait For The Paperback!	&quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; is deceptive. On the surface, it is solid social commentary on the fate of the working poor in this country. It is also both well written and edited. The latter is often a rarity these days. &quot;ND&quot; reads quickly and could almost be finished in one sitting. Most any reader can empathize with the struggles of keeping body, soul and all too often, families together on an hourly wage. However, when the smoke clears, one must admit that Ms. Ehrenreich has offered us nothing new. Few Americans, with the possible exception of W, believe that the working poor have it easy or that supporting a family on a Wal- Mart salary is realistic. These folks often lead lives of quiet desparation but their plight is hardly a revelation. The author has shed her light on an old, old story. Furthermore, it is not real! Ehrenreich is a successful author going temporarily undercover! She has an ultimate out and never really will have to struggle-long term-to get by. Also, as another reviewer wrote, 3 cities may have been one too many. By the time Ehrenreich arrives in the Twin Cities, the tale has become a bit repetitive. She had the material to concentrate on Key West and Portland. Ultimately, &quot;ND&quot; is still recommended-especially if one waits for the paperback version. Just because this is an &quot;Old Story&quot; doesn't mean that we can't read about it one more time. This is a very undemanding book. The author deserves some credit. She tackled a serious subject and produced a readable product. (She could have written about the First Family or the British Royals). &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; is worth a try- at paperback prices!!	2001-08-12
US	52139358	R1K3D0O3NI390C	0345390555	114235522	Lethal Marriage	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	That Red and Black Cover!	The red and black cover does indeed convey a message.  Readers are forewarned! There is strong stuff between the covers of &quot;Lethal Marraige&quot;.  I have never read of as dangerous and sick a character as Paul Bernardo. I had previously thought that Jerome Brudos, of Ann Rule's &quot;Lust Killer&quot; took that dubious prize. Brudos was a pussycat in comparison.  For those who don't already know, Bernardo was a serial killer and rapist who &quot;operated&quot; in eastern Ontario, Canada in the early '90s. The author, Nick Pron, is quite graphic in the portrayal of his crimes, especialy in the rape/sodomy/murder of 3 young Canadian women; Tammy, Leslie and Kristen. Kristen's murder is especially brutal and sadistic (and also depressing for this reader. I wish Kristen had tried harder to escape!). Nothing is left to the readers' imagination; the graphic details of the 3 killings are explicitly told in full sexual detail. Since Bernardo and his wife, Karla taped their &quot;activities&quot;, we can be assured of the chilling accuracy of the story. Consequently, &quot;LM&quot; may not be for everyone. This is a giant step up from an Ann Rule &quot;True Crime&quot; novel. There are lots of true crime tales out there that are milder than this. This review fails to mention much about Bernardo's wife and partner in crime, Karla Homolka. This is because her fate is key to &quot;LM&quot;s ending, which I don't want to reveal. It is quite hazy as to where Karla is now; in jail, on parole or scott free. Readers can decide for themselves if Karla is: 1) a helpless battered wife 2)just as depraved as her husband or 3) a rat. A final note: Unlike the Ann Rule books, there are NO centerfold photos to reveal the ending, to humanize the victims or to put a face on the guilty...a photo or two would have lightened the atmosphere. Final score: a 5 star story with 1 subtracted for the pervasive &quot;violence&quot;.	2001-08-11
US	52139358	RXGW3OQ3QHE6T	155874620X	465529521	Shrink to Fit: Answers to Your Questions About Therapy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well Intended But Wafer Thin	&quot;Shrink to Fit&quot; is a concise, quick reading handbook on the very important subject of mental therapy. It is fine as far as it goes. but therein lies the problem- it just doesn't go very far. I am certain the authors are 2 high minded individuals, writing with the noblest of intentions. Certainly for a mere $11.00, one cannot go too far wrong with &quot;SF&quot;. However as one who admits to having been in (past!) therapy himself, I question the value of turning to this type of breezy publication for serious answers to serious questions. &quot;SF&quot; will doubtless be of value as a starting point. For example there are solid observations on how insurance plans cover therapy these days. Beyond that, I would humbly suggest getting information from trusted-and &quot;neutral&quot;- human beings. It appears I'm the first to review &quot;SF&quot;. I'll be watching intently to see if other amazon folks agree with my point of view.	2001-07-28
US	52139358	R2SJCG3NO7MGO	155874620X	465529521	Shrink to Fit: Answers to Your Questions About Therapy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well Intended But Wafer Thin	\\"Shrink to Fit\\" is a concise, quick reading handbook on the very important subject of mental therapy. It is fine as far as it goes. but therein lies the problem- it just doesn't go very far. I am certain the authors are 2 high minded individuals, writing with the noblest of intentions. Certainly for a mere $..., one cannot go too far wrong with \\"SF\\". However as one who admits to having been in (past!) therapy himself, I question the value of turning to this type of breezy publication for serious answers to serious questions. \\"SF\\" will doubtless be of value as a starting point. For example there are solid observations on how insurance plans cover therapy these days. Beyond that, I would humbly suggest getting information from trusted-and \\"neutral\\"- human beings. It appears I'm the first to review \\"SF\\". I'll be watching intently to see if other amazon folks agree with my point of view.	2001-07-28
US	52139358	R27PL6EX2CJK0S	0399129731	93359560	Everybody's Man: A Biography of Jimmy Stewart	Books	4	4	5	N	N	This Man Didn't Learn Too Much!!	&quot;Everybody's Man&quot; is a quick reading, concise paean to the famous actor It is far from an in depth biography and presents only a thumbnail's portrait of the screen legend. It is hard to be too critical to such a brief tale, since little time must be invested in it.Thus, a charitable 4 star rating. The story includes some Hollywood gossip and offers tidbits of insight into Jimmy's relationship with luminaries such as Alfred Hitchcock. We learn that his close friends included Henry Fonda and Gary Cooper but the author keeps these friendships at arms length. There are large hints that Jimmy was quite ladies' man during his extended bachelorhood, but once again, the reader never gets too close to the subject. This observer would have enjoyed a more in depth look at Jimmy's famous Western roles especially the 5 made with Anthony Mann (&quot;Winchester 73&quot;, &quot;The Naked Spur&quot;, etc) and those made with John Ford (&quot;The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance&quot;).Predictably, the coverage is wafer thin.  One gets the impression that &quot;EM&quot; was written with no cooperation from Stewart or his family and that the author had to rely on material already published. This is not a book for serious film followers and they may well consider &quot;EM&quot; to be fawning.  Jimmy's fans, on the other hand will never notice the shortcomings. This latter group has known for years that nothing is too good for the man who shot Liberty Valance!	2001-07-06
US	52139358	R1V8L5HPJV1L6N	0399129731	93359560	Everybody's Man: A Biography of Jimmy Stewart	Books	4	8	9	N	N	This Man Didn't Learn Too Much!!	&quot;Everybody's Man&quot; is a quick reading, concise paean to the famous actor It is far from an in depth biography and presents only a thumbnail's portrait of the screen legend. It is hard to be too critical to such a brief tale, since little time must be invested in it.Thus, a charitable 4 star rating. The story includes some Hollywood gossip and offers tidbits of insight into Jimmy's relationship with luminaries such as Alfred Hitchcock. We learn that his close friends included Henry Fonda and Gary Cooper but the author keeps these friendships at arms length. There are large hints that Jimmy was quite the ladies' man during his extended bachelorhood, but once again, the reader never gets too close to the subject. This observer would have enjoyed a more in depth look at Jimmy's famous Western roles especially the 5 made with Anthony Mann (&quot;Winchester 73&quot;, &quot;The Naked Spur&quot;, etc) and those made with John Ford (&quot;The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance&quot;).Predictably, the coverage is wafer thin. One gets the impression that &quot;EM&quot; was written with no cooperation from Stewart or his family and that the author had to rely on material already published. This is not a book for serious film followers and they may well consider &quot;EM&quot; to be fawning. Jimmy's fans, on the other hand will never notice the shortcomings. This latter group has known for years that nothing is too good for the man who shot Liberty Valance!	2001-07-06
US	52139358	R1TG3LGSUUQDJO	0671736914	249813462	Combat Medic: Vietnam: Combat Medic: Vietnam	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Real Heroes	&quot;Combat Medic Vietnam&quot; is a solid military story. Its 33 chapters are devoted to some 10 Army and Marine medics who served in Vietnam.  While &quot;CM&quot; pulls no punches, neither does it belabor or drag the episodes out. Each episode, told in the first person &quot;tells it like it was&quot; and moves on.  The result is a highly compact and readable tale with no gratuitous gore and suffering.  To the credit of the men involved, there is also no trace of self-pity though the Lord knows they were well entitled on that score. The Afterward reveals what became of the 10 when they returned to &quot;The World&quot;- more power to them all! I enjoyed the Appendix, which encompasses a brief world history of military medics both U.S. and foreign. &quot;CM&quot; has 2 minor flaws common to military books: There are no maps and no glossary of Army/Marine/Navy acronyms or jargon. Their inclusion would have helped. Their exclusion does not detract from the larger story. &quot;CM&quot; represents yet another view, another observation post into the Vietnam War.  Both &quot;Combat Medic&quot; and author Roberts earlier work, &quot;One Shot-One Kill&quot; are highly and earnestly recommended.	2001-07-02
US	52139358	R3S3UQO5WA27RT	0671736914	249813462	Combat Medic: Vietnam: Combat Medic: Vietnam	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Real Heroes	&quot;Combat Medic Vietnam&quot; is a solid military story. Its 33 chapters are devoted to some 10 Army and Marine medics who served in Vietnam.  While &quot;CM&quot; pulls no punches, neither does it belabor or drag the episodes out. Each episode, told in the first person &quot;tells it like it was&quot; and moves on.  The result is a highly compact and readable tale with no gratuitous gore and suffering.  To the credit of the men involved, there is also no trace of self-pity though the Lord knows they were well entitled on that score. The Afterward reveals what became of the 10 when they returned to &quot;The World&quot;- more power to them all! I enjoyed the Appendix, which encompasses a brief world history of military medics both U.S. and foreign. &quot;CM&quot; has 2 minor flaws common to military books: There are no maps and no glossary of Army/Marine/Navy acronyms or jargon. Their inclusion would have helped. Their exclusion does not detract from the larger story. &quot;CM&quot; represents yet another view, another observation post into the Vietnam War.  Both &quot;Combat Medic&quot; and author Roberts earlier work, &quot;One Shot-One Kill&quot; are highly and earnestly recommended.	2001-07-02
US	52139358	R1M9C0P99V2SBO	0140067485	503302609	The Puzzle Palace: Inside the National Security Agency, America's Most Secret Intelligence Organization	Books	3	5	7	N	N	It Certainly Is A Puzzle!	&quot;The Puzzle Palace&quot; came highly recommended by other amazon readers.  A glance at the inside covers reveals 25 reprintings and a solid bio for the author. I found &quot;PP&quot; to be a virtual whirlwind of facts, names, dates, comings and goings, changes of command, anecdotes and many military/governmental acronyms. (There is even a 6-page glossary of these!). Mr. Bamford's work is well researched and well documented. In the acknowledgements, he admits to filing a &quot;torrent&quot; of Freedom of Information Act requests. I can well imagine! He supports his effort with 80 pages of notes, so what is written here must be authentic. That is the good news. The bad news is that for this reader, &quot;The Puzzle Palace&quot; simply did not work. Perhaps I missed the story somewhere in the plethora of facts. Perhaps the facts themselves were intended to be the story. This reader had hoped for some juice, some &quot;inside information&quot;. Apart from the horrendous 1967 Israeli attack on the USS LIBERTY, and some Cold War incidents, there were precious few. I believe &quot;PP&quot; will appeal to those well versed in the Beltway Scene, since they can &quot;connect the dots&quot; better than I. Those already possessing a knowledge of the intelligence game should also enjoy. A 5 star rating is appropriate for these 2 groups. For the rest of us, some rating stars must be subtracted. If we gave &quot;A&quot;s for effort alone, Mr. Bamford would deserve one.  For results, a Gentleman's &quot;C&quot; is more appropriate	2001-07-01
US	52139358	R2FIXXMZHV9BV6	0140067485	503302609	The Puzzle Palace: Inside the National Security Agency, America's Most Secret Intelligence Organization	Books	3	14	15	N	Y	It Certainly Is A Puzzle!	&quot;The Puzzle Palace&quot; came highly recommended by other amazon readers.  A glance at the inside covers reveals 25 reprintings and a solid bio for the author. I found &quot;PP&quot; to be a virtual whirlwind of facts, names, dates, comings and goings, changes of command, anecdotes and many military/governmental acronyms. (There is even a 6-page glossary of these!). Mr. Bamford's work is well researched and well documented. In the acknowledgements, he admits to filing a &quot;torrent&quot; of Freedom of Information Act requests. I can well imagine! He supports his effort with 80 pages of notes, so what is written here must be authentic. That is the good news. The bad news is that for this reader, &quot;The Puzzle Palace&quot; simply did not work. Perhaps I missed the story somewhere in the plethora of facts. Perhaps the facts themselves were intended to be the story. This reader had hoped for some juice, some &quot;inside information&quot;. Apart from the horrendous 1967 Israeli attack on the USS LIBERTY, and some Cold War incidents, there were precious few. I believe &quot;PP&quot; will appeal to those well versed in the Beltway Scene, since they can &quot;connect the dots&quot; better than I. Those already possessing a knowledge of the intelligence game should also enjoy. A 5 star rating is appropriate for these 2 groups. For the rest of us, some rating stars must be subtracted. If we gave &quot;A&quot;s for effort alone, Mr. Bamford would deserve one.  For results, a Gentleman's &quot;C&quot; is more appropriate	2001-07-01
US	52139358	R1EZ1CD17NO91B	0446609420	737635763	Let's Go to the Videotape: All the Plays and Replays from My Life in Sports	Books	2	0	0	N	Y	It's Warner Lite! Very Light	&quot;Let's Go to the Videotape&quot; consists of 112 short anecdotes, observations and stories packed into 303 pages. To say that &quot;Let's Go&quot; is quick reading is to overstate the obvious. If this compilation had no weaknesses other than brevity, it could be highly recommended. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. Mr. Wolf is an entertaining and very popular TV sports newsman. I looked forward to his 11:00 PM slot on NYC's Channel 2 for years. He is also a very able-and serious- public speaker. Mr. Wolf is in a different element here and his writing skills fall resoundingly short of his broadcasting abilities. Is this for a lack of effort?  To be specific, many of the &quot;chapters&quot; could have easily been combined into a more concise format. Also, the grammar, or lack of same, cries out for an EDITOR! Did Warner, or his ghostwriter, ever notice the spell check icon? This is an affliction common to many books these days. Editing is an expense to be cut! More importantly, Warner (the publisher) should either invest in a fact checker or Warner (the author) should refresh his memory.i.e: 1) He mistold the tale of Mickey Mantle's 1956/1957 holdout by $40,000- a fortune in those days. 2) The &quot;Bad News&quot; Barnes basketball player was Jim, out of Texas Western (now Texas El Paso) and later the Knicks. 3) Chapter 84 (&quot;Hello Allie&quot;) utterly glosses over how unpopular Allie Sherman was during his disastrous tenure as coach of the NY football Giants. The franchise needed 20 years to recover from that clown and his disastrous trade of the great Sam Huff. The author blew that one! If I had read with a red pencil, I could compile a longer list, but I'm certain the point is made. This is lightweight stuff. No harm no foul but no red meat either. I can't resist a closing pun: If you paid full hardcover price for this one, YOU LOST!	2001-07-01
US	52139358	R2GKJ64Q2J8D93	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Discount Sushi ??	This is a difficult book to rate for my amazon colleagues. One's view of &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot; may depend on a few outside factors: Those who are &quot;foodies&quot; AND live in New York City should enjoy it. Those of us (New Yorkers included) who like their meals plain and simple may not. Non- New Yorker/non &quot;foodies&quot; should save their money. A major point to be made is that this is NOT a tell all tale, so the word &quot;confidential&quot; may be a tad misleading. The author does, to his credit, include some eyebrow raisers about when fish is not fresh, dangers of well done meats, Sunday buffets and &quot;discount sushi&quot;. (There is an oxymoron!). Darker hints of sanitation, purveyor practices and the Mafia (this is New York, after all) are somewhat glossed over. These revelations are hardly scandalous! I most enjoyed the early part of &quot;KC&quot;, when Mr. Bourdain was getting started, finishing cooking school and surviving his first job in Provincetown, MA. That kitchen was a jungle and the author had yet to become a big shot. His move to New York may have resulted in a swelled ego. As a NYC native, I've heard so much of this before! Tales of life in big time kitchens such as the Rainbow Room, etc are nothing new, even tiresome.  A definite drawback to &quot;KC&quot; is Bourdain's personality, which frequently shines through as forceful at best, but more often just plain boorish. A second drawback is the helter skelter/jumping around during the latter (New York) portion of &quot;KC&quot;. Perhaps the author adopted this style purposely, to give readers a feel for life in a tough, competitive life in a tough, competitive town. Perhaps also, as &quot;Patient Spider&quot; noted above, the publisher was rushing to print!  This reviewer is confident that all readers will agree on one point: &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot; is ESSENTIAL READING for anyone seriously thinking about becoming a professional chef OR about buying their own restaurant.  Personality and writing skills aside, the author rates 5 stars for career guidance. For &quot;KC&quot;'s other attributes, a star or two must be subtracted.	2001-06-03
US	52139358	R2RGXXXGGNFF5S	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	3	14	21	N	Y	Discount Sushi ??	This is a difficult book to rate for my amazon colleagues. One's view of &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot; may depend on a few outside factors: Those who are &quot;foodies&quot; AND live in New York City should enjoy it. Those of us (New Yorkers included) who like their meals plain and simple may not. Non- New Yorker/non &quot;foodies&quot; should save their money. A major point to be made is that this is NOT a tell all tale, so the word &quot;confidential&quot; may be a tad misleading. The author does, to his credit, include some eyebrow raisers about when fish is not fresh, dangers of well done meats, Sunday buffets and &quot;discount sushi&quot;. (There is an oxymoron!). Darker hints of sanitation, purveyor practices and the Mafia (this is New York, after all) are somewhat glossed over. These revelations are hardly scandalous! I most enjoyed the early part of &quot;KC&quot;, when Mr. Bourdain was getting started, finishing cooking school and surviving his first job in Provincetown, MA. That kitchen was a jungle and the author had yet to become a big shot. His move to New York may have resulted in a swelled ego. As a NYC native, I've heard so much of this before! Tales of life in big time kitchens such as the Rainbow Room, etc are nothing new, even tiresome.  A definite drawback to &quot;KC&quot; is Bourdain's personality, which frequently shines through as forceful at best, but more often just plain boorish. A second drawback is the helter skelter/jumping around during the latter (New York) portion of &quot;KC&quot;. Perhaps the author adopted this style purposely, to give readers a feel for life in a tough, competitive life in a tough, competitive town. Perhaps also, as &quot;Patient Spider&quot; noted above, the publisher was rushing to print!  This reviewer is confident that all readers will agree on one point: &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot; is ESSENTIAL READING for anyone seriously thinking about becoming a professional chef OR about buying their own restaurant.  Personality and writing skills aside, the author rates 5 stars for career guidance. For &quot;KC&quot;'s other attributes, a star or two must be subtracted.	2001-06-03
US	52139358	R1H83GI4GMCERU	0393318672	154350783	The Ugly American	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Just Don't Think Too Much!!	\\"The Ugly American\\" is a set of 21 short stories, set in both  \\"mythical\\" and identified South East Asia countries in the late 1950s. One can speculate what the authors foresaw in those halcyon days of yore, but with 20/20 hindsight many readers will \\"assume\\" a reference to the then forthcoming Vietnam War. Readers who enjoyed Graham Greene's \\"The Quiet American\\" should be favorably disposed toward \\"UA\\"- but perhaps for the wrong reason.  Just as it was so easy to regard \\"QA\\" as prophecy, a reader can fall into the same trap with Messrs. Lederer and Burdick's work.  I am sure our diplomatic corps was full of puffed up [people] back then, swollen with success from World War 2, in the finest \\"Best and Brightest\\" tradition.  ...it appears to this observer that it's just a little too convenient to attach a \\"Vietnam War is just around the corner\\" label to \\"UA\\".  As with \\"The Quiet American\\", why can't we just view \\"UA\\" on its' own considerable efforts. There is much we can learn about sensitivity to other cultures here, not to mention exercising some basic common sense. The\\"American Junior Grade\\" story is especially apt. It appears some of my [online] friends would recommend \\"UA\\" to folks like exchange students, those about to work in Asia or even military about to be shipped over there. I agree, since I once belonged to that last group. The rest of us, stuck at home, should simply read \\"UA\\" and enjoy it-without the heavy thinking.  This intelligent collection is sharp enough to shine in it's own light. In this reviewer's opinion however, the best writings about South East Asia in the '50s remain those of the late Frenchman, Bernard Fall, especially \\"Street Without Joy\\".  The efforts of Greene, Lederer, Burdick etc need to be measured against that lofty benchmark.	2001-05-23
US	52139358	RTC76W8V7I1G1	0393318672	154350783	The Ugly American	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Just Don't Think Too Much!!	\\"The Ugly American\\" is a set of 21 short stories, set in both  \\"mythical\\" and identified South East Asia countries in the late 1950s. One can speculate what the authors foresaw in those halcyon days of yore, but with 20/20 hindsight many readers will \\"assume\\" a reference to the then forthcoming Vietnam War. Readers who enjoyed Graham Greene's \\"The Quiet American\\" should be favorably disposed toward \\"UA\\"- but perhaps for the wrong reason.  Just as it was so easy to regard \\"QA\\" as prophecy, a reader can fall into the same trap with Messrs. Lederer and Burdick's work.  I am sure our diplomatic corps was full of puffed up [people] back then, swollen with success from World War 2, in the finest \\"Best and Brightest\\" tradition.  When one adds  unqualified, ... unimaginative, narrow-minded bureaucrats to the mix, one could reasonably expect troubles to arise. Still, it appears to this observer that it's just a little too convenient to attach a \\"Vietnam War is just around the corner\\" label to \\"UA\\".  As with \\"The Quiet American\\", why can't we just view \\"UA\\" on its' own considerable efforts. There is much we can learn about sensitivity to other cultures here, not to mention exercising some basic common sense. The\\"American Junior Grade\\" story is especially apt. It appears some of my amazon friends would recommend \\"UA\\" to folks like exchange students, those about to work in Asia or even military about to be shipped over there. I agree, since I once belonged to that last group. The rest of us, stuck at home, should simply read \\"UA\\" and enjoy it-without the heavy thinking.  This intelligent collection is sharp enough to shine in it's own light. In this reviewer's opinion however, the best writings about South East Asia in the '50s remain those of the late Frenchman, Bernard Fall, especially \\"Street Without Joy\\".  The efforts of Greene, Lederer, Burdick etc need to be measured against that lofty benchmark.	2001-05-23
US	52139358	R1D68HYS5LTWFY	0345432991	49782164	A Death in White Bear Lake: The True Chronicle of an All-American Town	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	A First Rate Job!	Here is a thoroughly well - researched/ well-documented true crime tale with an interesting-and disturbing twist: Child abuse that led to murder. The central character is Lois Jurgens, who, with her husband Harold, somehow managed to adopt 6 children from different agencies in different states. The highly suspicious death of one child, Dennis, is the heart of the plot. For various reasons, none of them compelling, Dennis' death is not properly investigated for years. The arrival in White Bear Lake, Minnesota of Jerry, the birth mother of Dennis, gets the long delayed wheels of justice to crank. Author Siegel provided some very good local background on the town as well as the Jurgens' neighborhood and neighbors. The reader will also receive a primer on the initial legal and academic interests in researching and finally prosecuting child abuse. The reader should also begin to appreciate the pressures faced by child-adoption agencies and those well-intentioned folks like Gerane who must approve potential adoptive parents. &quot;A Death in White Bear Lake&quot; is an extremely intelligent and recommended true crime work. I look forward to reading Mr. Siegel's other 2 works. Minor point: White Bear Lake is a Twin City bedroom community and not a remote, woodsy &quot;typical&quot; Upper Midwest rustic village. Most importantly: SKIP OVER the centerfold photos until the end. They are far too revealing!!	2001-05-14
US	52139358	R32SS194E2HKZL	0345432991	49782164	A Death in White Bear Lake: The True Chronicle of an All-American Town	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A First Rate Job!	Here is a thoroughly well - researched/ well-documented true crime tale with an interesting-and disturbing twist: Child abuse that led to murder. The central character is Lois Jurgens, who, with her husband Harold, somehow managed to adopt 6 children from different agencies in different states. The highly suspicious death of one child, Dennis, is the heart of the plot. For various reasons, none of them compelling, Dennis' death is not properly investigated for years. The arrival in White Bear Lake, Minnesota of Jerry, the birth mother of Dennis, gets the long delayed wheels of justice to crank. Author Siegel provided some very good local background on the town as well as the Jurgens' neighborhood and neighbors. The reader will also receive a primer on the initial legal and academic interests in researching and finally prosecuting child abuse. The reader should also begin to appreciate the pressures faced by child-adoption agencies and those well-intentioned folks like Gerane who must approve potential adoptive parents. &quot;A Death in White Bear Lake&quot; is an extremely intelligent and recommended true crime work. I look forward to reading Mr. Siegel's other 2 works. Minor point: White Bear Lake is a Twin City bedroom community and not a remote, woodsy &quot;typical&quot; Upper Midwest rustic village. Most importantly: SKIP OVER the centerfold photos until the end. They are far too revealing!!	2001-05-14
US	52139358	R263F4ZFMILVID	0804110581	149324112	Honor Thy Father	Books	1	18	30	N	Y	Here Is an Offer You Should Refuse!	&quot;Honor Thy Father&quot; is a highly santized look at the Bonanno crime family, one of the infamous &quot;Five Families&quot; in the New York Mafia.The principal character is the son of the Family Boss. Because the author had the cooperation of the Bonannos in writing &quot;HTF&quot;, a reader can scarcely expect any juicy &quot;inside the mafia&quot; expose. And, of course, that is exactly what the reader will NOT get. The story suffers further by its' studied, almost languid pace. Ultimately, &quot;Honor Thy Father&quot; is a tale leading nowhere and signifying nothing. The one and only saving grace is the historical background provided on the OTHER New York area families and the intrigues, betrayals, rubouts, deportations, etc that have provided so much entertainment. I remember the unsuccesful&quot;hit&quot; on Frank Costello and the succesful Park Sheraton Hotel hit on Albert Anastasia (in his barber chair at the Park Sheraton Hotel)because, at different times,I lived near the sites. On my way to school,I daily walked past Frank Costello's apartment building at 115 Central Park West. Other than this New York Mob trivia, &quot;Honor Thy Father&quot; has zero to offer. And nowhere between the pages is a single &quot;honorable&quot; act performed. Readers should look elsewhere for tales of honor or of the Mafia.	2001-04-26
US	52139358	R254FDQQSSP9RJ	0804110581	149324112	Honor Thy Father	Books	1	5	19	N	Y	Here Is an Offer You Should Refuse!	&quot;Honor Thy Father&quot; is a highly santized look at the Bonanno crime family, one of the infamous &quot;Five Families&quot; in the New York Mafia.The principal character is the son of the Family Boss. Because the author had the cooperation of the Bonannos in writing &quot;HTF&quot;, a reader can scarcely expect any juicy &quot;inside the mafia&quot; expose. And, of course, that is exactly what the reader will NOT get. The story suffers further by its' studied, almost languid pace. Ultimately, &quot;Honor Thy Father&quot; is a tale leading nowhere and signifying nothing. The one and only saving grace is the historical background provided on the OTHER New York area families and the intrigues, betrayals, rubouts, deportations, etc that have provided so much entertainment. I remember the unsuccesful&quot;hit&quot; on Frank Costello and the succesful Park Sheraton Hotel hit on Albert Anastasia (in his barber chair at the Park Sheraton Hotel)because, at different times,I lived near the sites. On my way to school,I daily walked past Frank Costello's apartment building at 115 Central Park West. Other than this New York Mob trivia, &quot;Honor Thy Father&quot; has zero to offer. And nowhere between the pages is a single &quot;honorable&quot; act performed. Readers should look elsewhere for tales of honor or of the Mafia.	2001-04-26
US	52139358	R3QTHUCZH4B4F2	0804119376	890379440	Just a Sailor: A Navy Diver's Story of Photography, Salvage, and Combat	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	The Title Tells It!	I had just finished Bernie Chowdhury's &quot;The Last Dive&quot; when I first learned of this book. The contrast could not be greater. Here is no tale of &quot;personalities&quot; competing on dives to the &quot;Andrea Doria&quot; or sunken U-Boats. &quot;Just A Sailor&quot; is a good, honest tale of the mid-60s to late 70s Navy career of the author.Not all the action is below the surface, much of it is on dry land, with no detrimental effects. Since the author was a Naval photographer and a diver, the combination of the two skills only adds to the story. The inevitable Navy politics and occaisional back stabbing serve well to round the plot out. These are all real people here! A few minor points: The plain vanilla cover does not serve &quot;JS&quot; well. There is more on the inside than may be apparent. If there is a reprint, the publisher should dress it up! A glossary of Navy/dive/photo terms would have helped this reader but this omision is not serious. I liked the bottom-of-the-page footnotes- a nice touch. Finally, why not a Vietnam only sequel? Mr. Waterman can write, he must have some great photos and I don't think the market is flooded with Navy-Vietnam books. &quot;Just A Sailor&quot; is for those of us that like things plain and unfettered. Recommended!	2001-04-10
US	52139358	R1BN7UJHIWLY0Y	0804119376	890379440	Just a Sailor: A Navy Diver's Story of Photography, Salvage, and Combat	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	The Title Tells It!	I had just finished Bernie Chowdhury's &quot;The Last Dive&quot; when I first learned of this book. The contrast could not be greater. Here is no tale of &quot;personalities&quot; competing on dives to the &quot;Andrea Doria&quot; or sunken U-Boats. &quot;Just A Sailor&quot; is a good, honest tale of the mid-60s to late 70s Navy career of the author.Not all the action is below the surface, much of it is on dry land, with no detrimental effects. Since the author was a Naval photographer and a diver, the combination of the two skills only adds to the story. The inevitable Navy politics and occaisional back stabbing serve well to round the plot out. These are all real people here! A few minor points: The plain vanilla cover does not serve &quot;JS&quot; well. There is more on the inside than may be apparent. If there is a reprint, the publisher should dress it up! A glossary of Navy/dive/photo terms would have helped this reader but this omision is not serious. I liked the bottom-of-the-page footnotes- a nice touch. Finally, why not a Vietnam only sequel? Mr. Waterman can write, he must have some great photos and I don't think the market is flooded with Navy-Vietnam books. &quot;Just A Sailor&quot; is for those of us that like things plain and unfettered. Recommended!	2001-04-10
US	52139358	R1XSY1NHNB093D	067169071X	87217686	Everything She Ever Wanted: A True Story of Obsessive Love, Murder, and Betrayal	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Hint of A Sequel??	&quot;Everything She Ever Wanted&quot; stands out among the 8 Ann Rule books I have read to date. It is not the most suspenseful or most interesting. It is not set in an especially attractive locale or does not introduce compelling characters.It DOES have Pat Taylor/Allanson. To me, she is the lowest of the low,including that sicko from &quot;Lust Killer&quot;. One has to complete all 500+ pages to appreciate how bad/evil/manipulative this woman is. Husbands, children and family mean absolutely nothing to Pat as she schemes her way through life. The title is a bit of a tease, since it was not exactly clear just want Pat &quot;wanted&quot;  so badly or if she will ever achieve it. &quot;ESEW&quot; is lengthy by necessity because Pat casts a wide net with her behavior. There is a plethora of children,family members,spouses, cops, defense attorneys, district attorneys and innocent bystanders drawn into the maelstrom surrounding her. This point demonstrates the tale's only weakness. It's too long! I believe the author could have drawn the reader into the plot quicker. With so many &quot;main&quot; characters, some of the minor ones could have been deleted entirely or had their roles abbreviated. I almost put &quot;ESEW&quot; away before being drawn into the same maelstrom mentioned above. Apart from this, the book is definitely recommended. Ann Rule fans need not think twice. New readers may wish to start with the briefer &quot;Lust Killer&quot; or perhaps &quot;I-5 Killer&quot; before tackling the longer fare here. On a positive note, I was inspired by the very real characters of Tom and Susan. They battled back! More power to them. Also, my compliments to two previous reviewers: &quot;Sarbery&quot; observed that owning  a few horses doesn't make a Souhern family &quot;refined&quot;. Good one!. Another observant reviewer noticed the photographic changes in Susan as the plot thickened. All the more reason NOT to read those pesky centerfold photos (or the back cover!) until the end.Of all A.R.s efforts, I sense a possible sequel here. Have we or haven't we heard the last of Pat?	2001-03-29
US	52139358	RMEAPRW67S41G	067169071X	87217686	Everything She Ever Wanted: A True Story of Obsessive Love, Murder, and Betrayal	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A Hint of A Sequel??	&quot;Everything She Ever Wanted&quot; stands out among the 8 Ann Rule books I have read to date. It is not the most suspenseful or most interesting. It is not set in an especially attractive locale or does not introduce compelling characters.It DOES have Pat Taylor/Allanson. To me, she is the lowest of the low,including that sicko from &quot;Lust Killer&quot;. One has to complete all 500+ pages to appreciate how bad/evil/manipulative this woman is. Husbands, children and family mean absolutely nothing to Pat as she schemes her way through life. The title is a bit of a tease, since it was not exactly clear just want Pat &quot;wanted&quot;  so badly or if she will ever achieve it. &quot;ESEW&quot; is lengthy by necessity because Pat casts a wide net with her behavior. There is a plethora of children,family members,spouses, cops, defense attorneys, district attorneys and innocent bystanders drawn into the maelstrom surrounding her. This point demonstrates the tale's only weakness. It's too long! I believe the author could have drawn the reader into the plot quicker. With so many &quot;main&quot; characters, some of the minor ones could have been deleted entirely or had their roles abbreviated. I almost put &quot;ESEW&quot; away before being drawn into the same maelstrom mentioned above. Apart from this, the book is definitely recommended. Ann Rule fans need not think twice. New readers may wish to start with the briefer &quot;Lust Killer&quot; or perhaps &quot;I-5 Killer&quot; before tackling the longer fare here. On a positive note, I was inspired by the very real characters of Tom and Susan. They battled back! More power to them. Also, my compliments to two previous reviewers: &quot;Sarbery&quot; observed that owning  a few horses doesn't make a Souhern family &quot;refined&quot;. Good one!. Another observant reviewer noticed the photographic changes in Susan as the plot thickened. All the more reason NOT to read those pesky centerfold photos (or the back cover!) until the end.Of all A.R.s efforts, I sense a possible sequel here. Have we or haven't we heard the last of Pat?	2001-03-29
US	52139358	R1059P6UTNM9XY	0375405119	904783689	The Talented Mr. Ripley	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Good Storyline/Credibility Suffers	&quot;The Talented Mister Ripley&quot; is a well put together tale of a young American con artist faking his way through post WW IEurope. There are some unquestioned strong points: The author pulls the reader into the plot immediately. From the first page, we are involved. We soon learn that young Ripley needs money and that old Mr. Geenleaf is a perfect sucker, ripe for the plucking.(He is a rich, desperate father, hoping that Ripley can lure his lazy loafer of a son-Dicky- back to New York from a life of Continental drifter). The setting of a pleasant, lolling &quot;Europe on $5.00 a Day&quot; Italy is just right. All the lazy expatriates-Dicky,Freddie, Marge and crew are appropriate-at first. Eventually, the alert reader has to raise several &quot;points of order&quot;. Points such as: Why does Mr. Greenleaf give Ripley, a virtual stranger, a blank check to track down his son, providing first class treatment with no accountability or &quot;progress reports&quot;? Why doesn't Dicky immediately tell Ripley to get lost? Don't any of these people have JOBS? What do they so for money? Do they spend their lives in cafes? When people (not to mention boats!) start to &quot;disappear&quot;, why arn't more questions asked? Surely the Italian police (and P.I.s from the States) are smarter than this. These are not tough, grizzled Ann Rule homicide detectives! Is evasion this easy? A few glib answers, a slight disguise change and one is home free? I still don't believe Marge failed to figure it all out. So much for women's intuition. One last point, which anyone from this generation had to have faced: Don't any of these guys have draft boards? Why arn't they in uniform somewhere? Author Highsmith does indeed test her readers's sense of credibility. The cast of characters will certainly test one's patience as well. Forewarned with these caveats, &quot;Ripley&quot; still a worthwhile read, even if the &quot;cultured&quot; backdrop stands in such stark contrast to a &quot;true crime&quot; novel. &quot;Ripley&quot; is worth a try. It moves quickly and even pleasantly toward its' &quot;appropriate&quot; resolution, one which I have not revealed. Now if someone will kindly tell me what &quot;il meglio&quot; means......rime&quot; novel. &quot;Ripley&quot; is worth a try. It moves quickly and even pleasantly toward its' &quot;appropriate&quot; resolution, one which I have not revealed. Now if someone will kindly tell me what &quot;il meglio&quot; means......	2001-03-13
US	52139358	RTQVDXNHMOX3N	0140185003	179354174	The Quiet American (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	27	36	N	N	&quot;Charley Owns The Night!&quot;	The &quot;Quiet American&quot; is set in mid-1950s colonial Vietnam. The author, a Brit, does an excellent job in setting the scene and characters. Virtually everything is appropriate to what must have been the time and place. Therein lies the diffficulty with the novel. While very well written, with sharp, cynical dialog, it is all too easy to read too much into &quot;QA&quot;. There are all kinds of opportunities to behold allegorical references in Alden Pyle (the namesake),Vigot(the French detective), Fowler(the cynical Brit journalist) and especially Phoung, the young Saigon woman. Poor Phoung!! She and that sister will outlive us all. Armed with 20/20 historical hindsight, how easy it is to proclaim that &quot;QA&quot; is prophetic and prescient! If only LBJ had read it! Or Nixon!! This reviewer (and Vietnam vet) is a bit more cynical.The devil's advocate in me might state that Greene merely wrote a superior novel, set in Vietnam,  but with nothing more added. Pyle, Phoung and the whole crew represent no one other than themselves. The story can stand quite capably on its' own two feet. with no &quot;historical perspectives&quot; required. The conflict between these views is the essence of &quot;QA&quot;.    I have to mention a classic line from the plot: &quot;The French Army controlled the highways until 7PM. After that, they controlled the watch towers&quot;.That was Vietnam in a sentance. Every night our unit went back to our base camp, closed the gates and posted guys in the guard towers. Vietnam is a scary place after sundown and Charley (the Viet Cong or &quot;Victor Charley&quot;) ran the place after dark. The headline is borrowed from my buddy, Jim Lydlle, the chaplain's assistant. Of the 2 opinions above, I prefer the latter. &quot;QA&quot; is not prophecy. It takes an American or a Frenchman to capture the essence of Indochina, just as I believe only Brits and Irishmen can write about Ireland. Readers wishing to appreciate the fascinating French Vietnamese period should pounce on &quot;Street Without Joy&quot; by the late Bernard Fall. The reader able to ignore all these constraints will enjoy &quot;The Quiet American&quot; on its'own merits. Too many constraints?. Welcome to Vietnam!	2001-03-01
US	52139358	RI83D5JSCKLEV	0451164938	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me: Revised and Updated Edition	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	An absolute must for true crime fans.	&quot;The Stranger Beside Me&quot; is a story that I believe does not merit a lengthy review. It could be because there are nearly 50 (as of 22 Feb '01) to choose from. It could be because the Ted Bundy saga is well known. In fact, the A&amp;E network just covered Bundy the other night. Any recommendation for &quot;SBM&quot; should be very basic. This is as pure true crime reporting as exists anywhere. This reporting gets huge assists from 3 factors. 1)The author is a former cop 2) The former cop is an excellent reporter/writer and 3) The author knew Ted Bundy from their &quot;early days&quot; in Seattle. From that point, Ms. Rule simply follows the(turning)trail to its frightening conclusion. (I borrowed that line from another reviewer above!). Any true crime devotee can't possibly ignore &quot;SBM&quot;. One wanting to try such a book will have no better proving ground. This one is 5 stars all around. A final thought: At the end of the tale, the reader will know why cops take routine &quot;routine traffic stops&quot; so seriously. What if those 2 officers handn't gone by the book those 2 nights?	2001-02-23
US	52139358	R39BT36W386EHT	0451164938	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me: Revised and Updated Edition	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	An absolute must for true crime fans.	&quot;The Stranger Beside Me&quot; is a story that I believe does not merit a lengthy review. It could be because there are nearly 50 (as of 22 Feb '01) to choose from. It could be because the Ted Bundy saga is well known. In fact, the A&amp;E network just covered Bundy the other night. Any recommendation for &quot;SBM&quot; should be very basic. This is as pure true crime reporting as exists anywhere. This reporting gets huge assists from 3 factors. 1)The author is a former cop 2) The former cop is an excellent reporter/writer and 3) The author knew Ted Bundy from their &quot;early days&quot; in Seattle. From that point, Ms. Rule simply follows the(turning)trail to its frightening conclusion. (I borrowed that line from another reviewer above!). Any true crime devotee can't possibly ignore &quot;SBM&quot;. One wanting to try such a book will have no better proving ground. This one is 5 stars all around. A final thought: At the end of the tale, the reader will know why cops take routine &quot;routine traffic stops&quot; so seriously. What if those 2 officers handn't gone by the book those 2 nights?	2001-02-23
US	52139358	R2OCOR172MT2QO	0312974167	968226245	To Die For: The Shocking True Story of Serial Killer Dana Sue Gray	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Dana is different!!	&quot;To Die For&quot; is the story of Dana Sue Gray, one of the few documented female serial killers. The tale offers neither a whodunit nor a mysterious police investigation. Dana's guilt is made obvious right on the book cover and she leaves a wide trail of evidence that can only implicate her. The junior homicide detective has little trouble finding Dana! The strengths of &quot;TDF&quot; lie elsewhere. For starters, we understand how she selfishly hurt her former husband and last boyfriend. She hurt her father. She devastated the relatives of the victims. It is left to the reader to decide if she ever hurt herself. This reader was shocked to watch as Dana descends from an athletic, intelligent, attractive, employed women (albeit one with an enormous &quot;attitude&quot;) to an almost desperate murderess, killing to go on spending sprees for items she does not need. As a sidebar, this reader enjoyed the brief refernces to Police Department politics. Detective Greco had more problems with his &quot;buddies&quot; than with Dana! There are a few warning signs for potential readers:1) &quot;TDF&quot; is not linear but unusually structured, almost an inside-out story. 2)The police interrogation is far too long, given Dana's obvious guilt. 3) As ably mentioned by a reviewer above, Dana's back of the book decision to cop a plea is unexplained. &quot;TDF&quot; ends abruptly! Braidhill's work is for true crime devotees only. If one is not a convert, here is not the time and place to become one. (S)he is better advised to read an Ann Rule book or two before &quot;TDF&quot;. Crime fans SHOULD give Braidhill a try. This unusual effort deserves a chance to succeed. 2 final thoughts for those who finished the tale: What if Dana had kept her nursing job and never been fired? Was the burden of unemployment too much? How would any of us react? Did this push Dana over the edge? I would not want Dana for a wife but if I were wheeled into an emergency room, I'd want Dana working onme. I bet she was a good nurse, if not exactly the girl next door.	2001-02-22
US	52139358	R14W4WM677YWO3	0312974167	968226245	To Die For: The Shocking True Story of Serial Killer Dana Sue Gray	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Dana is different!!	&quot;To Die For&quot; is the story of Dana Sue Gray, one of the few documented female serial killers. The tale offers neither a whodunit nor a mysterious police investigation. Dana's guilt is made obvious right on the book cover and she leaves a wide trail of evidence that can only implicate her. The junior homicide detective has little trouble finding Dana! The strengths of &quot;TDF&quot; lie elsewhere. For starters, we understand how she selfishly hurt her former husband and last boyfriend. She hurt her father. She devastated the relatives of the victims. It is left to the reader to decide if she ever hurt herself. This reader was shocked to watch as Dana descends from an athletic, intelligent, attractive, employed women (albeit one with an enormous &quot;attitude&quot;) to an almost desperate murderess, killing to go on spending sprees for items she does not need. As a sidebar, this reader enjoyed the brief refernces to Police Department politics. Detective Greco had more problems with his &quot;buddies&quot; than with Dana! There are a few warning signs for potential readers:1) &quot;TDF&quot; is not linear but unusually structured, almost an inside-out story. 2)The police interrogation is far too long, given Dana's obvious guilt. 3) As ably mentioned by a reviewer above, Dana's back of the book decision to cop a plea is unexplained. &quot;TDF&quot; ends abruptly! Braidhill's work is for true crime devotees only. If one is not a convert, here is not the time and place to become one. (S)he is better advised to read an Ann Rule book or two before &quot;TDF&quot;. Crime fans SHOULD give Braidhill a try. This unusual effort deserves a chance to succeed. 2 final thoughts for those who finished the tale: What if Dana had kept her nursing job and never been fired? Was the burden of unemployment too much? How would any of us react? Did this push Dana over the edge? I would not want Dana for a wife but if I were wheeled into an emergency room, I'd want Dana working onme. I bet she was a good nurse, if not exactly the girl next door.	2001-02-22
US	52139358	R37YZ0VAN93KZ	0385494106	322130850	Papal Sin: Structures of Deceit	Books	3	28	36	N	Y	Heavy-Heavy-Heavy!!	&quot;Papal Sin&quot; is a very serious and challenging book.  It's not light bedtime reading.  The book is concerned with &quot;misdeeds&quot; of various Popes over the centuries. Many of these transgressions will be understood only by those well versed in theology or the inner workings of the Catholic Church. Far more significant, and easier to digest, are the reports of how Pope Pius IX declared Papal Infallibility or Paul VI condemned birth control, both over the strenuous objections of many bishops. Niether of these acts was based on scripture, nor are the bans on a married clergy or a female clergy. We learn that Saints Peter and Paul were married and many early disciples were female. In short, the Catholic Church is painted as an authoritarian, top down, selfish, Rome-centered, self-perpetuating hierarchy.  The &quot;rules&quot; are whatever the current Pope  proclaims them, whether or not they are based on scripture or even natural law. If one is a card carrying Catholic, it gets worse! The author takes the reader into the writings of Saint Augustine, Saint Jerome, Lord Acton and Cardinal Newman. He proceeds to delve into the considerations of an increasingly gay clergy (no surprise here!) and even questions the amount of devotion to the Virgin Mary! Even SHE cannot hide from Mr. Wills' pen. The end result is an often foggy story that can easily lose one who attempts to follow word for word.A &quot;cafeteria&quot; approach however, will be richly rewarding to the selective ones who take what they can.This lapsed Catholic got a refresher course as to just why he is that way- and likely to remain so. Devout Cathlics will be furious- and relish picking the chapters apart. Theology majors will have a field day. For these 2 categories, a 5 star rating is warranted. Give Mr. Wills credit, he has included something for everyone within the slowly turning pages of &quot;Papal Sin&quot;.	2001-02-11
US	52139358	RHS52B6825PDC	0451166876	805288852	Lust Killer, Updated Edition	Books	5	54	60	N	N	This Guy is REALLY Sick!!	&quot;Lust Killer&quot; is the best of the 7 Ann Rule books I have read to date.  Set (once again) in &quot;peaceful&quot; Oregon, it tells the story of Jerome Brudos, an absolute Wacko of a &quot;small time&quot; serial killer.  &quot;LK&quot; is notable for its brevity and compactness. The author does a first rate job of concentrating the plot, which never wanders or digresses into backgrounds, geographical descriptions, or introductiuons of minor characters as do some of her later works(see &quot;And Never Ler Her Go&quot;).  There are no wasted pages in &quot;LK&quot;. This is the perfect place for a reader to test Ann Rule to see if (s)he likes her. My guess is that the author passes with flying colors. AR fans need not think twice, this one is a no brainer. The story is so compact that the reader can even break the &quot;Ann Rule rule&quot; and view the few centerfold photos without telegraphing the ending. Another amazon reader e-mailed me with the thought that Brudos and Diane Downs of &quot;Small Sacrifices&quot; would make a great couple. Read both and see if you agree. Question: Why do the streets and subways of New York City seem safer than Oregon?	2001-02-02
US	52139358	R155VPNXJZS91D	0060194626	275282410	The Last Dive: A Father and Son's Fatal Descent into the Ocean's Depths	Books	1	22	27	N	Y	Not At A Hardcover Price!!	The &quot;Last Dive&quot; is really 4 books in one.  The first deals with the strange (!) Rouse family, father and son, who die needlessly while exploring a sunken German U Boat off the New Jersey coast. The second and by far the stongest is concerned with serious deepwater adventures to sunken U Boats, underwater caves and the &quot;remains&quot; of well-known wrecks including the &quot;Andrea Doria&quot; and the &quot;Empress of Ireland&quot;, in the St. Lawrence River. In this portion, &quot;LD&quot; is every bit as fascinating as &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; or &quot;The Perfect Storm&quot; and the book soars. The third part tells us of current trends and personalities in the diving world and the final part is about the technical aspects of diving: diferent equipment, various underwater gasses (oxygen, nitrogen etc.) The end result is an often repetitive hodge podge of a story that ultimately leads the reader nowhere.Harper Collins, the publisher, obviously declined to invest in any editing at all. &quot;FD&quot; is also FAR too long, perhaps because the author was &quot;filling up&quot; pages to justify a hradcover price. Too bad, because the core of a superior tale was there, but no one brought it to fruition. The final 50 pages were torture as this reader waited for the author to wrap up. I suspect Mr. Chowdhury is far more effective at shorter, more focussed magazine articles than the longer fare of a novel. Add 2 stars if &quot;LD&quot; is re-edited and shaped up. Add 3 more stars if you are a hardcore dive fanatic-you won't care about the shortcomings. The rest of the world is forewarned- especially at hardcover prices. Oh for what could have been. A final pont: As with so many other books, MAPS(!) of the dive locations would have helped enormously.	2001-01-08
US	52139358	R3LZN9S282E95K	0060194626	275282410	The Last Dive: A Father and Son's Fatal Descent into the Ocean's Depths	Books	1	4	7	N	Y	Not At A Hardcover Price!!	The &quot;Last Dive&quot; is really 4 books in one.  The first deals with the strange (!) Rouse family, father and son, who die needlessly while exploring a sunken German U Boat off the New Jersey coast. The second and by far the stongest is concerned with serious deepwater adventures to sunken U Boats, underwater caves and the &quot;remains&quot; of well-known wrecks including the &quot;Andrea Doria&quot; and the &quot;Empress of Ireland&quot;, in the St. Lawrence River. In this portion, &quot;LD&quot; is every bit as fascinating as &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; or &quot;The Perfect Storm&quot; and the book soars. The third part tells us of current trends and personalities in the diving world and the final part is about the technical aspects of diving: diferent equipment, various underwater gasses (oxygen, nitrogen etc.) The end result is an often repetitive hodge podge of a story that ultimately leads the reader nowhere.Harper Collins, the publisher, obviously declined to invest in any editing at all. &quot;FD&quot; is also FAR too long, perhaps because the author was &quot;filling up&quot; pages to justify a hradcover price. Too bad, because the core of a superior tale was there, but no one brought it to fruition. The final 50 pages were torture as this reader waited for the author to wrap up. I suspect Mr. Chowdhury is far more effective at shorter, more focussed magazine articles than the longer fare of a novel. Add 2 stars if &quot;LD&quot; is re-edited and shaped up. Add 3 more stars if you are a hardcore dive fanatic-you won't care about the shortcomings. The rest of the world is forewarned- especially at hardcover prices. Oh for what could have been. A final pont: As with so many other books, MAPS(!) of the dive locations would have helped enormously.	2001-01-08
US	52139358	R1U9GEJTOUJLPY	080504695X	713778363	A Rumor of War	Books	5	38	44	N	N	Put It On Your Bookshelf!	&quot;A Rumor of War&quot; is a darkly disturbing book. It is set in what was the early, &quot;optimistic&quot; Vietnam in the spring of '65 when we thought we were fighting for &quot;freedom&quot; and before the reality of the place hit home. Vietnam hits Lieutenant Caputo very quickly, as it must have for all Marine Corps platoon leaders. It's all right there-booby traps, mines, trip wires, leeches, foot blisters, jungle rot, constant shelling, dysentery, pigs eating corpses and cold C Rations. As a Vietnam vet, I was surprised the author never mentions RATS!, but we both know they were there too. (THEY were everywhere). Lt. Caputo's transfer to a staff job is worse than the field, so he transfers back to the bush as a platoon leader.It's more of the same-patrolling and repatrolling the same trails, the same hills, the same villes. All watched over by unsupportive and bureaucratic commanders. &quot;RW&quot; offers yet another look at the Vietnam War, one more pessimistic than most because so many of us felt that the years of '65 and '66 were more positive than this. I might suggest reading Joseph Owen's &quot;Colder Than Hell&quot; to compare the Marine experience in Korea with Lt. Caputo's. Reading the late Bernard Fall's &quot;Street Without Joy&quot; will make us aware, again, that perhaps there was never a time to be optimistic about Vietnam. I must admit that I constantly found myself curious as to how I would have handled many situations in &quot;RW&quot;. How would I have measured up? What would I have done? How would the men have judged me? While the story of &quot;RW&quot; tends to stray at times, I found no fault since the author is relating a painful part of his past. One small point: &quot;RW&quot; would benefit from better maps-these are so often lacking in military books. The bottom line:&quot;A Rumor of War&quot; belongs on the bookshelf of any serious military book reader or anyone searching for yet another angle to the frustrating Vietnam War that affected so many of us.affected so many of us.	2000-12-31
US	52139358	R1MDOL5ONSWUHG	0451402103	992416414	Bitter Blood: A True Story of Southern Family Pride, Madness, and Multiple Murder (Onyx)	Books	3	4	6	N	Y	Overcooked!	&quot;Bitter Bloood&quot; tells the story of two separate murders, one in Kentucky and one in North Carolina that turn out to be &quot;related&quot;. I won't give the ending away in a review-suffiice it to say that author Bledsoe unravels the murders and puts them together again in a cohesive and interesting fashion. That is the good news. The bad news is that he required 573 pages, in relatively small type, to do so.  This is a looong read!! Major detriments to the tale are the lengthy personal and geographical background settings Bledsoe employs. This helps the reader identify with the characters and locales but greatly adds to the time and effort required to stay abreast of the plot. Better editing, if any serious &quot;editing&quot; is actually done these days, should have shortened &quot;BB&quot; with no negative effect. One has to give Bledsoe his due on one point: He obviously put an enormous amount of work and research into &quot;BB&quot;. I can visualize him working and reworking chapters, checking interview transcripts, notes, etc. The result is a very credible piece of true crime writing, which overcomes the rather strange cast of characters. I can only wish Bledsoe had taken a &quot;less is more&quot; approach and &quot;filed&quot; some of his material. True crime devotees and residents of the Winston-Salem/Greensboro NC corridor can safely ignore the negative points in this review. I still plan to buy another Bledsoe work because I respect any writer who works as hard as he ovviously does. A final word: Follow the &quot;Ann Rule rule&quot; and skip over the centerfold photos until the book is finished.	2000-12-31
US	52139358	R3QKEBMHPCF8TB	0451402103	992416414	Bitter Blood: A True Story of Southern Family Pride, Madness, and Multiple Murder (Onyx)	Books	3	21	29	N	Y	Overcooked!	&quot;Bitter Bloood&quot; tells the story of two separate murders, one in Kentucky and one in North Carolina that turn out to be &quot;related&quot;. I won't give the ending away in a review-suffiice it to say that author Bledsoe unravels the murders and puts them together again in a cohesive and interesting fashion. That is the good news. The bad news is that he required 573 pages, in relatively small type, to do so.  This is a looong read!! Major detriments to the tale are the lengthy personal and geographical background settings Bledsoe employs. This helps the reader identify with the characters and locales but greatly adds to the time and effort required to stay abreast of the plot. Better editing, if any serious &quot;editing&quot; is actually done these days, should have shortened &quot;BB&quot; with no negative effect. One has to give Bledsoe his due on one point: He obviously put an enormous amount of work and research into &quot;BB&quot;. I can visualize him working and reworking chapters, checking interview transcripts, notes, etc. The result is a very credible piece of true crime writing, which overcomes the rather strange cast of characters. I can only wish Bledsoe had taken a &quot;less is more&quot; approach and &quot;filed&quot; some of his material. True crime devotees and residents of the Winston-Salem/Greensboro NC corridor can safely ignore the negative points in this review. I still plan to buy another Bledsoe work because I respect any writer who works as hard as he ovviously does. A final word: Follow the &quot;Ann Rule rule&quot; and skip over the centerfold photos until the book is finished.	2000-12-31
US	52139358	RZRC585U3L61O	080504695X	697480373	A Rumor of War	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Put It On Your Bookshelf!	\\"A Rumor of War\\" is a darkly disturbing book. It is set in what was the early, \\"optimistic\\" Vietnam in the spring of '65 when we thought we were fighting for \\"freedom\\" and before the reality of the place hit home. Vietnam hits Lieutenant Caputo very quickly, as it must have for all Marine Corps platoon leaders. It's all right there-booby traps, mines, trip wires, leeches, foot blisters, jungle rot, constant shelling, dysentery, pigs eating corpses and cold C Rations. As a Vietnam vet, I was surprised the author never mentions RATS!, but we both know they were there too. (THEY were everywhere). Lt. Caputo's transfer to a staff job is worse than the field, so he transfers back to the bush as a platoon leader.It's more of the same-patrolling and repatrolling the same trails, the same hills, the same villes. All watched over by unsupportive and bureaucratic commanders. \\"RW\\" offers yet another look at the Vietnam War, one more pessimistic than most because so many of us felt! that the years of '65 and '66 were more positive than this. I might suggest reading Joseph Owen's \\"Colder Than Hell\\" to compare the Marine experience in Korea with Lt. Caputo's. Reading the late Bernard Fall's \\"Street Without Joy\\" will make us aware, again, that perhaps there was never a time to be optimistic about Vietnam. I must admit that I constantly found myself curious as to how I would have handled many situations in \\"RW\\". How would I have measured up? What would I have done? How would the men have judged me? While the story of \\"RW\\" tends to stray at times, I found no fault since the author is relating a painful part of his past. One small point: \\"RW\\" would benefit from better maps-these are so often lacking in military books. The bottom line:\\"A Rumor of War\\" belongs on the bookshelf of any serious military book reader or anyone searching for yet another angle to the frustrating Vietnam War that affected so many of us.	2000-12-31
US	52139358	R2YFNW7PV2DQMI	0671001132	127006476	Dead by Sunset	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	It's Not Her Best- It's Still Her!	To be sure, this is still an Ann Rule book and true fans like me will be satified, but just satisfied. The true crime tale is well -written and well- documented, with good Oregon background. The main fault of this book, in my opinion, is that there is so little suspence! We basically watch as spectators until the wheels of justice apprehend and prosecute &quot;whodunit&quot;. On a more picky note, I believe Cheryl is not as compelling a victim as other female characters in other A.R. books. As always, don't dwell on those centerfold pictures. They may (or may not!) give things away too soon.	2000-12-18
US	52139358	R1NO4M49G88F16	0671001132	127006476	Dead by Sunset	Books	3	3	6	N	Y	It's Not Her Best- It's Still Her!	To be sure, this is still an Ann Rule book and true fans like me will be satified, but just satisfied. The true crime tale is well -written and well- documented, with good Oregon background. The main fault of this book, in my opinion, is that there is so little suspence! We basically watch as spectators until the wheels of justice apprehend and prosecute &quot;whodunit&quot;. On a more picky note, I believe Cheryl is not as compelling a victim as other female characters in other A.R. books. As always, don't dwell on those centerfold pictures. They may (or may not!) give things away too soon.	2000-12-18
US	52139358	R2W2U7R4JGZS3V	0767902521	853461955	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	2	10	15	N	Y	A Minority Opinion!	By now, most potential readers know the story. Two middle-aged guys, one of them (Katz!)completely out of shape in mind and body, decide to hike the Appalachian trail, from Georgia to Maine. The reader was suspect of the venture from the start, perhaps made so by the author's photo on the cover.  This is no athelete.    Full disclosure! They don't make it! They quit in Gatlinburg, TN. The author proceeds to make a series of negative comments about the area, which from this reader's personal experience are inappropriate, inaccurate and unfair.They try hiking the AT in sections, quitting again in VA, but only after Bryson takes several outrageous swipes at Confederate General Stonewall Jackson. The author is no Civil War historian (ie: Jackson and Robert E. Lee were in the Union Army at the time of the Harpers Ferry raid). The author sweeps dismissively through PA (it's a coal slag, you know), and skips NJ, NY and CT entirely. Bryson emerges in his native New England with smaller walks. Then the pathetic Katz resurfaces. They try to hike the Northern end of the AT in Maine, but surprise (!) they quit again. End of story.    I suspect strongly that Bryson backwardsly decided to write a book and then to hike the AT. Since he didn' make it, he had to use filler-lots of it. The result is a story that is satisfying in part but ultimately lacking. It would have been better if Bryson had completed a whole section of the AT, which he may have with the right partner, and stuck to writing about the outdoors. In so doing, he would have spared the good folks of Gatlinburg his &quot;humor&quot; and let Stonewall Jackson lay beneath the trees in peace.	2000-12-08
US	52139358	R1416MVAQ8W14L	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	2	5	6	N	Y	A Minority Opinion!	By now, most potential readers know the story. Two middle-aged guys, one of them (Katz!)completely out of shape in mind and body, decide to hike the Appalachian trail, from Georgia to Maine. The reader was suspect of the venture from the start, perhaps made so by the author's photo on the cover.  This is no athelete.    Full disclosure! They don't make it! They quit in Gatlinburg, TN. The author proceeds to make a series of negative comments about the area, which from this reader's personal experience are inappropriate, inaccurate and unfair.They try hiking the AT in sections, quitting again in VA, but only after Bryson takes several outrageous swipes at Confederate General Stonewall Jackson. The author is no Civil War historian (ie: Jackson and Robert E. Lee were in the Union Army at the time of the Harpers Ferry raid). The author sweeps dismissively through PA (it's a coal slag, you know), and skips NJ, NY and CT entirely. Bryson emerges in his native New England with smaller walks. Then the pathetic Katz resurfaces. They try to hike the Northern end of the AT in Maine, but surprise (!) they quit again. End of story.    I suspect strongly that Bryson backwardsly decided to write a book and then to hike the AT. Since he didn' make it, he had to use filler-lots of it. The result is a story that is satisfying in part but ultimately lacking. It would have been better if Bryson had completed a whole section of the AT, which he may have with the right partner, and stuck to writing about the outdoors. In so doing, he would have spared the good folks of Gatlinburg his &quot;humor&quot; and let Stonewall Jackson lay beneath the trees in peace.	2000-12-08
US	52139358	R2R62YJ2YDM1QK	0671535056	559673714	Mississippi Mud: Southern Justice and the Dixie Mafia	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Murky Work!!	&quot;Mississippi Mud&quot; is a well-written, murky, dark, mysterious true crime novel. Two parents are murdered and the author leads us through a trail of suspects, motives and some dead ends. The Mississippi Gulf Coast is an appropriately evil place. I don't wish to give the ending away, so I'll keep the review brief. If there is word to describe the ending, it's &quot;muddy&quot;. This story is a safe choice for devotees of crime tales. My only question is: &quot;Where is the Movie&quot;?   The cover mentions a forthcoming &quot;major motion picture&quot;. Where is it?	2000-12-07
US	52139358	R371XKQZZG4MZZ	0806515597	515866152	How to Disappear Completely and Never Be Found	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Entertaining!!	&quot;How to Disapperar&quot; is an entertaining and fun book. It is easily a one-night read. It is full of concrete dos and donts for someone wanting to escape and form a new identity. It is heavier on the dont's(ie:don't take your car with you, don't take a &quot;public&quot; job as a bartender or bellman,etc.). Whether one can use the helpful hints in real life is another matter. It is also questionable how current this all is, since &quot;How to&quot; was published in 1986. The &quot;helpful&quot; bibliography also appears out of date. The tale is somewhat thin and could even be considered somewhat sexist-all those guys are running away from evil wives! No matter! Buy the book and entertain yourself for a few hours. This one could be a great stocking stuffer for Christmas!! And if you want to run away in real life, find a human expert.	2000-12-01
US	52139358	RPYD7WMRYRR8N	0806515597	515866152	How to Disappear Completely and Never Be Found	Books	4	14	22	N	N	Entertaining!!	&quot;How to Disapperar&quot; is an entertaining and fun book. It is easily a one-night read. It is full of concrete dos and donts for someone wanting to escape and form a new identity. It is heavier on the dont's(ie:don't take your car with you, don't take a &quot;public&quot; job as a bartender or bellman,etc.). Whether one can use the helpful hints in real life is another matter. It is also questionable how current this all is, since &quot;How to&quot; was published in 1986. The &quot;helpful&quot; bibliography also appears out of date. The tale is somewhat thin and could even be considered somewhat sexist-all those guys are running away from evil wives! No matter! Buy the book and entertain yourself for a few hours. This one could be a great stocking stuffer for Christmas!! And if you want to run away in real life, find a human expert.	2000-12-01
US	52139358	R1A7R2YTTULZZQ	0671868713	966435098	And Never Let Her Go: Thomas Capano: The Deadly Seducer	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A Safe Choice... A No Brainer !!	With so many reviews to choose from (84 as of November 30), there is no need for a loooong review of an Ann Rule book- especially for &quot;And Never Let Her Go&quot;. This offering is as good as it gets. One who is already an Ann Rule fan is almost certain to enjoy the book. One who is unfamiliar with her work should become a devotee after reading it. Rule does a good job of characterizations here; the people are believable and interesting, though some are on the evil side- not to mention the wrong side of the law. Rule also does a good job of extending the suspence deep into the plot-even the trial holds interest. It's hard to imagine how even the mildest true crime lover will be disappointed. And since Christmas is upon us, here is a simple and easy present for all but the hardest to please. A WARNING!! As with all Ann Rule books-DO NOT!! read the centerfold photos until the end. They humanize the characters but are a dead giveaway to the plot.	2000-11-30
US	52139358	R9DDOWFNZJ3LV	0671868713	966435098	And Never Let Her Go: Thomas Capano: The Deadly Seducer	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	A Safe Choice... A No Brainer !!	With so many reviews to choose from (84 as of November 30), there is no need for a loooong review of an Ann Rule book- especially for &quot;And Never Let Her Go&quot;. This offering is as good as it gets. One who is already an Ann Rule fan is almost certain to enjoy the book. One who is unfamiliar with her work should become a devotee after reading it. Rule does a good job of characterizations here; the people are believable and interesting, though some are on the evil side- not to mention the wrong side of the law. Rule also does a good job of extending the suspence deep into the plot-even the trial holds interest. It's hard to imagine how even the mildest true crime lover will be disappointed. And since Christmas is upon us, here is a simple and easy present for all but the hardest to please. A WARNING!! As with all Ann Rule books-DO NOT!! read the centerfold photos until the end. They humanize the characters but are a dead giveaway to the plot.	2000-11-30
US	52139358	R37XDC01LVTKNK	0803287615	984922034	Fear Strikes Out: The Jim Piersall Story	Books	4	10	13	N	Y	Fine-If Sanitized- Story. Good '50s Backdrop.	&quot;Fear Strikes Out&quot; tells the tale of Jimmy Piersall, who played for the Boston Red Sox in the early to late 1950s. He and Willy Mays of the Giants were the best defensive center fielders in pro baseball then and perhaps ever. &quot;FSO&quot; is more concerned with Jimmy's nervous breakdown in 1952 and his subsequent recovery. The real story should be his patient wife, without whom Piersall would have been at sea. The Catholic Church has canonized people for less! &quot;FSO&quot; skims along the edges of Jimmy's problems but to its' credit does not sweep them under a rug. The problems may be sanitized but not trivialized. In my opinion, the true meat of the book is its' 1950s American League backdrop, which I'm just barely old enough to remember. Red Sox fans should enjoy reading about Ted Lepcio, Lou Boudreau, Ellis Kinder, Joe Cronin and Billy Goodman. &quot;FSO&quot; has a limited scope and appeal. The 1950s sportsworld was lilly white and not given to tell all, dirt digging locker room scoops and the book reflects that era. Jimmy gets a free pass on some (not all) of his antics. Readers who accept those constraints should find &quot;FSO&quot; enjoyable and worthwhile. Anyone with a dad or uncle, etc who is a hardcore Red Sox fan has a great Christmas present to click unto.	2000-11-09
US	52139358	R1SI2FNOW34I69	0803287615	984922034	Fear Strikes Out: The Jim Piersall Story	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	Fine-If Sanitized- Story. Good '50s Backdrop.	&quot;Fear Strikes Out&quot; tells the tale of Jimmy Piersall, who played for the Boston Red Sox in the early to late 1950s. He and Willy Mays of the Giants were the best defensive center fielders in pro baseball then and perhaps ever. &quot;FSO&quot; is more concerned with Jimmy's nervous breakdown in 1952 and his subsequent recovery. The real story should be his patient wife, without whom Piersall would have been at sea. The Catholic Church has canonized people for less! &quot;FSO&quot; skims along the edges of Jimmy's problems but to its' credit does not sweep them under a rug. The problems may be sanitized but not trivialized. In my opinion, the true meat of the book is its' 1950s American League backdrop, which I'm just barely old enough to remember. Red Sox fans should enjoy reading about Ted Lepcio, Lou Boudreau, Ellis Kinder, Joe Cronin and Billy Goodman. &quot;FSO&quot; has a limited scope and appeal. The 1950s sportsworld was lilly white and not given to tell all, dirt digging locker room scoops and the book reflects that era. Jimmy gets a free pass on some (not all) of his antics. Readers who accept those constraints should find &quot;FSO&quot; enjoyable and worthwhile. Anyone with a dad or uncle, etc who is a hardcore Red Sox fan has a great Christmas present to click unto.	2000-11-09
US	52139358	RM4DXC1QDL11M	0871132907	399411658	The Cry of the Owl (Highsmith, Patricia)	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	I Must Have Missed Something!	I guess I just don't get it. &quot;The Cry of the Owl&quot; shows promise early in the story as Robert, a nice but confused young man becomes involved (implausibly!) with Jenny,a nice young woman any guy would like to meet and date.  But how many girls invite peeping Toms in for coffee instead of calling the cops? The story proceeds apace with actions, characters, dialog and plot twists that simply seem increasingly unreal. I know this is fiction but Ms. Highsmith writes as though she has lived her life in an ivory tower. People like this-except for good old Jenny- just don't exist. Read the book and email me that you believe Nickie! To give the author her due, there is a definite sense of gloom right  from the start and the characters, especially Greg and the cop, Lippenholz,  add to the depressed aura of foreboding. The book reads quickly.The depressed small Pennsylvania town setting is just right. But then nothing happens- or maybe something did  and I just missed it. And if you understand the &quot;ending&quot;, you're  a better man than I am, Gunga Din. It's back to Ann Rule for me!	2000-10-31
US	52139358	R5CVS36DXA3CU	0871132907	399411658	The Cry of the Owl (Highsmith, Patricia)	Books	3	1	5	N	Y	I Must Have Missed Something!	I guess I just don't get it. &quot;The Cry of the Owl&quot; shows promise early in the story as Robert, a nice but confused young man becomes involved (implausibly!) with Jenny,a nice young woman any guy would like to meet and date.  But how many girls invite peeping Toms in for coffee instead of calling the cops? The story proceeds apace with actions, characters, dialog and plot twists that simply seem increasingly unreal. I know this is fiction but Ms. Highsmith writes as though she has lived her life in an ivory tower. People like this-except for good old Jenny- just don't exist. Read the book and email me that you believe Nickie! To give the author her due, there is a definite sense of gloom right  from the start and the characters, especially Greg and the cop, Lippenholz,  add to the depressed aura of foreboding. The book reads quickly.The depressed small Pennsylvania town setting is just right. But then nothing happens- or maybe something did  and I just missed it. And if you understand the &quot;ending&quot;, you're  a better man than I am, Gunga Din. It's back to Ann Rule for me!	2000-10-31
US	52139358	R2IYGSPG9S0QEP	0312974884	103733134	Why Didn't You Get Me Out?: A POW's Nightmare in Vietnam	Books	5	48	48	N	Y	A New Angle? YES!!	&quot;Why Didn't You Get Me Out?&quot; should go hand in hand with George J. Veith's &quot;Code Name Bright Light&quot; in relating the appallingly hard-hearted and callous attitude the U.S. Government had towards the POWs and MIAs during the Indochina War.  The more I read on the subject, two events take place: The first is that certain stories and key players keep reappearing (Jerry Mooney of NSA, General Tighe of DIA, Colonel Mike Peck, etc). The more they appear in the same form in different sources, the truer they must be. The second is that I find new information, such as the contents of Warrant Officer Anton's book. As WO Anton relates, the US had solid photographic intelligence of the locations of Viet Cong prison camps and often traced prisoner movements through the jungles all the way to Hanoi. WO Anton, in fact, is told years later that the US made no rescue attempts so as not to expose their sources!. Why develop sources if the information they provide goes unused? &quot;Why Didn't You Get Me Out?&quot; is unique in that most POW tales are set in the major Hanoi prisons such as The Plantation (Anton's last stop) or the infamous &quot;Hanoi Hilton&quot;. Anton concentrates his focus on the putrid, festering smaller jungle camps he suffered through on the long trek from his capture in the Que Son Valley to the &quot;relative comfort&quot; of the Plantation. It's all here-the the dysentary, the skin leeches, the cruel guards(and some who were not), the attempts to reeducate/brainwash as well as the infamous Marine, Bobby Garwood, who colaborated with the enemy. Anton leaves no doubt as to the ultimate Vietnam?Indochina question&quot; DID EVERYBODY COME HOME? Those of us who have followed things through the years know the answer is a resounding &quot;NO!&quot;. &quot;Why Didn't You Get Me Out&quot; is recommended for any serious student of the Indochina War as well as those with a paticular interest in the fate of the 1.993 (as of October 23, 2000)MIAs stillout there. After all these years and after spending one year of my life over there, it's just unreal how many sides there were to that War. This is a first rate new side/ new look. Those who have yet to read George Veith's book should try both.	2000-10-23
US	52139358	R1TKR1I77388S5	0452010780	766840884	Voices of 1776: The Story of the American Revolution in the Words of Those Who Were There	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Challenging,Serious,Rewarding!	&quot;Voices of 1776&quot; is a tale of the Revolutionary War from its' beginnings at Lexington, Concord and Breed's Hill (not Bunker Hill!) to the British surrender at Yorktown, Virginia. Mr. Wheeler tells his story in the actual words of the participants (on both sides)-hence the &quot;voices&quot; in the title. These are in the more formal, flowery method of speaking from that time and appear in regular typeface. Since this language can be hard to understand, the author includes his explanatory notes in &quot;today's&quot; style- but in italics!!It was very interesting -if challenging- to jump back and forth between the two. &quot;1776&quot; is written quite chronologically, so the reader should not become confused. If one is interested in the latter period of the War, it's easy to skip to that section of the narrative. The stories of the high points-the Battles of Breed's Hill,Saratoga,Trenton and John Paul Jones&quot; naval exploits are all here with just the right amount of detail. Lesser known sides of the War such as the American invasion of Quebec and the troubles we had with Indians (even then!) are also included. Mr. Wheeler does a particularly fine job presenting the events of Benedict Arnold's treason and the dramatic execution of his contact, Major Andre. I'm always fascinated to relearn that so many bloody and decisive battles were fought in South Carolina! And anyone who doubts that France is not our friend will be set straight (no French=no surrender at Yorktown). This will make a fine read for a history buff, for those who wish to &quot;review&quot; for themselves  their nation's history or perhaps for parents who want to &quot;encourage&quot; the same with the kids. Casual readers may be disappointed as may Vermont natives-The Battle of Bennington isn't covered!! A final helpful hint-the reader may wish to have a Rand McNally Atlas handy since geography is crucial to understanding the battles; the book's many maps are in the formal &quot;style ofthe times&quot;.	2000-10-12
US	52139358	R291XAXNLTD0VZ	0451406095	924693661	Before He Wakes: A True Story of Money, Marriage, Sex and Murder	Books	3	3	8	N	Y	Not Quite!	I regret that &quot;Before He Wakes&quot; was a diaappointment. The first two thirds of the story, in which author Bledsoe lays out the strange plot  of two murders of two husbands, are fine. Once the &quot;culprit&quot; is  arrested and stands trial, I felt the tale went downhill. This could be  because the defense had its' hands tied, due to adverse rulings from the  trial judge. It could also be due to the total lack of color and spark from  both the defense and prosecution. The judge was also no ball of fire! It's  all too bad for the reader, in my opinion. A cliff hanger of a trial would  have produced a 5 star rating. There are some bright spots: There is some  good local background, which should appeal to readers from North Carolina.  Barbara is a &quot;character&quot; capable of carrying the story by  herself. And Mr. Bledsoe has done his homework. He can craft a story.  &quot;Before He Wakes&quot; is well researched and well documented. I would  definitely recommend the author and plan to try another of his books. A  word of caution: As with any &quot;Ann Rule&quot; type novel, which this  definitely is, skip over the centerfold photos until the very end. They may  (or may not!) give things away.	2000-09-20
US	52139358	RY4173A77X8UI	0446675156	61758389	The Mindbody Prescription: Healing the Body, Healing the Pain	Books	4	68	74	N	Y	Read slowly and carefully	In all fairness to readers, someone needs to establish that often there is  simply no substitute for an occasional office visit to a real live medical  doctor. One cannot cure EVERYTHING from a book. I also don't believe that  the &quot;Power of Positive Thinking&quot; can cure all ills. With these  caveats aside, it can be safely stated that this is a 4 or 5 star piece of  work. It covers such a wide range of medical issues that no one review  could fairly cover them all. I believe the best advice to  &quot;amazoners&quot; is simply to buy the book and read it carefully,  testing Dr. Sarno's theories and taking what you can. Treat it as a  checkpoint of sorts, to be referred back to. Do not read it as a novel that  can be discarded  or recycled to a friend. &quot;The Mind Body  Prescription&quot; belongs on your shelf permanently. Some readers may feel  more comfortable starting with the author's &quot;Healing Back Pain&quot;  (a true 5 star work!). That will introduce one to the Sarno philosophy  before proceeding to &quot;The Mind Body Prescription&quot;. Either way,  Dr. Sarno has some excellent ideas. We all owe it to ourselves to read one  or two of his writings.	2000-09-14
US	52139358	R1IMXXYKG7HTER	0399145982	677687665	Tammy Wynette: A Daughter Recalls her Mother's Tragic Life and Death	Books	4	24	28	N	Y	It's About Mothers and Daughters !!	In my opinion, many of the reviews posted for &quot;A Daughter  Recalls&quot; are unflattering and unfair to the author. I do not believe  she is a little golddigger, self-serving or dishonoring her mom. We have to  face 3 basic facts: 1) Regardless of the role George Richey (husband # 5)  played -or didn't play- in Tammy's untimely death, all should agree that  the circumstances of her demise were very strange and beg certain  questions. I feel Jackie is merely trying to air these questions publicly.   2) This is not(!) a true biography. Such a definitive story has yet to be  written. &quot;A Daughter Recalls&quot; is much more concerned with Tammy's  later years and especially with her phsical problems and various  addictions/afflictions. And Tammy's own &quot;Stand By Your Man&quot; deals  only with her life until 1979 - in a highly &quot;sanitized&quot; fashion.  When the ultimate story does appear, I'll stand in line to buy it. 3) Most  importantly, I believe &quot; A Daugher Reacalls&quot; is about  a girl who  loved her mother-but mom was rarely home. She was always on the go. There  was little &quot;quality time&quot;. To make matters worse, there was the  &quot;little matter&quot; of the 5 marriages to men who took advantage (#s  2-4-5) or were drunks (#3). Good old boy Euple Byrd (#1) seems like the  best of the bunch. With mom gone all the time, not always in the best of  health-AND saddled with 4 inadequate step-fathers- you would expect Jackie  and her sisters (She must be the spokesperson) to be devastated by Tammy's  death-all the more so because she died under a cloud of suspicion. Strange  that I feel the need to defend the author from reviewers but I hope the 4  sisters find some peace and closure in Tammy's death. I must admit the  story has one prime flaw: It gave the definite air of a book rushed to  print- perhaps before a final editing job. Too bad but not fatal. Classic  country fans and certainly Tammy fans can ignore this (and the variouscarping at the author!) and safely buy. It's not a true biography but it's  well worth a hardcover price.	2000-09-09
US	52139358	R31B5KM0K85ANK	0061014591	57293859	The Terrible Hours	Books	3	5	10	N	Y	It's Lost At Sea !	I learned of &quot;TTH&quot; in a news report on the recent sinking of a Russian sub in the Barents Sea. I am sure many Amazon types did the same.  Maas' story story is actually 2 or 3 tales in 1. The principal character is  Admiral Charles &quot;Swede&quot; Momson, who directed the rescue of the  &quot;Squalus&quot;, which went down off Portsmouth, NH in the summer of  '39 with a crew of 59. However, &quot;TTH&quot; also covers Momsen's  notable Naval career before and after the rescue attempt,  Further entwined  are episodes of other sub disasters and various Naval engagements- with  lots (! ) of technical and often tedious explanations of underwater diving  equipment, history and procedures. Since Momsen was an innovator and no  &quot;yes&quot; man, the reader is further treated to stories of his  battles with the hidebound Navy bureaucracy. This results in too much for a  mere civilian landlubber to easily digest. The valient efforts to save the  crew of the &quot;Squalus&quot; are almost amongst the verbiage.  &quot;TTH&quot; suffers from 3 MAJOR (!) deficiencies: 1) As in so many  books, there are no MAPS. Why do so many editors persist in withholding  them? 2) There is no glossary of naval terms. Even  veterans of other  branches may not understand navy jargon. 3) There are no diagrams of the  &quot;Squalus'&quot; interior. Where was the control room, torpedo bays  etc?  The fault may lie with the editor and not Mr. Maas, but the non naval  vet, non- naval architecht may find him/herself &quot;at sea&quot; during  much of the journey through the book. Browsers please note: I didn't reveal  the ending. Hardcore navy buffs and naval architects may safely ignore this  review and buy &quot;TTH&quot; right away. Others should think twice. Sad  but true.	2000-08-30
US	52139358	R1Z6QFSBHSLBOE	0804116970	719598121	Colder Than Hell: A Marine Rifle Company at Chosin Reservoir	Books	4	29	30	N	Y	SEMPER FI ! Good job.	&quot;Colder Than Hell&quot; tells the story of a Marine Corps platoon  from its formation at Camp Pendleton, NC at the outset of the Korean War to  the famous breakout from the (&quot;frozen&quot;) Chosin Reservoir in the  winter of 1950-1951. The author puts the reader right there with the men.  One can almost taste the frozen chow, the cold seeping through your parka  and the onset of frostbite through the snopaks. &quot;Personalities&quot;  are included and we cringe when one of them is wounded or killed.  There  are two minor drawbacks: 1) We get little taste of a wider war, but this is  understadable. Why should the men care about any other war but theirs? 2)  As with so many similar stories, there is a dearth of MAPS!!. Where were  these guys? Every editor should be forced to include usable MAPS in  military stories. Other than these, the lieutenant does a fine job of  writing. I was impressed by the leval of leadership and courage displayed  by the Marines under terribly difficult circumstances- all the more so  because so many were not &quot;regulars&quot; but activated reservists.  &quot;Colder Than Hell&quot; was first written in 1996. I wonder why Lt.  Owen waited so long to tell his story, but I'm glad he did. Former or  current Marines should jump on this book, as should serious students of the  Korean conflict.	2000-08-10
US	52139358	R2GGE39AO6BAOO	0671769200	659856831	If You Really Loved Me	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Now Here Is a Dysfunctional Family!	A short review to any A.R. novel is preferred, the better not to divulge  the plot on the Net!&quot;If You Really Loved Me&quot; is good writing,  with an &quot;inverted story&quot;.  A murder is committed in the early  pages and &quot;whodunit&quot; quickly identified. But there is so much  more here!  Ms. Rule takes close to 600 pages to lay bare the full, bizarre  tale of a mean, selfish, compulsive and manipulative father named David  Brown.  If there is a fault to the book, it lies in the almost total dearth  of likable or even sympathetic characters.  What a crew! A hint: Skip over  the centerfold of pictures in this and other A.R. works.  The photos may  (or may not!) give away the outcomes. A final hint: Don't spend too much  time reading reviews. If you like the genre, &quot;If You Really Loved  Me&quot; is a safe choice!	2000-08-07
US	52139358	R2KA7D1RVXMP4Y	0440226503	368067060	Code-Name Bright Light: The Untold Story of U.S. POW Rescue Efforts During the Vietnam War	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Was The Enemy US ?	&quot;Code Name Bright Light&quot; is an extremely well-researched and documented story about the efforts (failures! ) of the United States to rescue its' POWs during the Vietnam War. Just count the footnotes in each  chapter! There can be no doubt that the story you will read is authentic.   And that is a problem because most Americans will be saddened to learn that  the blame cannot be heaped upon a cruel and intransigent enemy but with our  own political. military and especially diplomatic leaders. Inter-service  rivalry, intra-service rivalry, poor planning and just plain Vietnam-style  bad luck all played a large part in the story. But there is so simple  &quot;sin-loi&quot; here. Ambassador to Laos  William Sullivan and  Ambassador to South Vietnam Bunker wholeheartedly emphasized politics over  POW rescues. One must ask even now whose side was Mr. Sullivan on? And  where was the Johnson White House? Where was Robert McNamara? All very  disturbing. There are many better &quot;Vietnam&quot; books but for those  interested in the POW story, this is the Bible.  I have read 4 other books  on POWs, including Ms. Stephenson's &quot;Kiss the Boys Goodbye&quot;  and  seen the tape  &quot;We Can Keep You Forever&quot;, but &quot;Code Name  Bright Light&quot; tells it all the best. A serious, disturbing but  excellent job!	2000-07-29
US	52139358	R2KIUS4RVDEDDI	1557506639	143699467	No Surrender: My Thirty-Year War	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Unbelievable!	&quot;No Surrender&quot; tells the story of a Japanese Army lieutenant inserted into the Philippines late in WW2-with orders to fight as a guerilla. Lt. Onoda never realizes WW2 is over and continues on his  &quot;mission&quot; until 1974-30 years!  Any information from the outside  world is dismissed as an American trick to get him to surrender. Even pleas  from his  family are ignored for the same reason. The book demonstrates the  incredible capacity man has to overcome difficulties, discomforts and  danger- not to mention an heroic sense of &quot;duty first&quot;. If  &quot;No Surrender&quot; has a weak spot, it lies in its' very! abrupt  ending. I would like to know how Lt. Oroda fared personally in &quot;modern  Japan&quot;.Did he move to Brazil to live with his brother as he dreamed he  might? Did he get a reward or was he received by the Emporer? What happened  to the guy? Oroda is the type of character the reader has to like.  I'd  recommend &quot;No Surrender&quot; to two types of readers. 1): Those WW2  buffs who want a totally unique perspective on the conflict 2): Those who  like &quot;positive thinking&quot; books because Lt. Oroda is the very  emboiment of that. This also qualifies as an ideal gift for that &quot;hard  to please&quot; book lover.	2000-06-24
US	52139358	R2NN73LHIT5EES	0375703926	947999501	The Hunters: A Novel	Books	2	4	16	N	Y	What Is the Fuss About ?	I was disappointed in this book, given the build up by reviwers, including a &quot;blurb&quot; in the New York Times Book Review. I happen to believe the Korean War is fascinating- more so than WW2 or even Vietnam.  But the  Korea story has been told elsewhere- and much better- by such writers as  James Brady (&quot;Coldest War&quot;) Donald Knox (&quot;Korean War&quot;  in 2 parts esp. the first) and General Matthew Ridgeway (&quot;Korean  War&quot;). Who would know the subject better than him?   One could argue  that those were concerned with the war on the ground. To that argument, I  would offer James Michner's &quot;The Bridges at Toko-Ri&quot; about naval  fighter pilots. I still can see that scene in the movie where Mickey Rooney  drops in his chopper to rescue William Holden- and the book was better! A  previous reviwer suggested getting this book at the library. As far as  &quot;The Hunters&quot; is concerned, that is good advice. Readers should  &quot;hunt&quot; for Korean War stories elsewhere.	2000-06-09
US	52139358	R2N4XFC1MW590V	0671228846	761974378	Stand By Your Man	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Only Because I Love Her Music!	I am giving Tammy a free pass on this review. In reality, &quot;Stand By Your Man&quot; is a highly &quot;sanitized&quot; version of what must have been a fascinating life.  &quot;D-I-V-O-R-C-E&quot; should be her signature  song but again, I'll give Tammy a pass. The reader will have to give credit  where credit is due. This woman fought her way up from poverty in  Mississippi,a loser of a first husband, took herself and her babies to  Nashville, made herself a star and kept herself a star despite unhappy  marriages (5?) and all sorts of health problems, which received less  publicity than her marital woes. (Did George Jones really drive his lawn  mower into town that night to get more booze? That was after Tammy hid all  his car keys!)  Maybe Tammy, after all she went through, is entitled to one  little sanitized autobiography.	2000-06-09
US	52139358	RVLVY4670X9W5	1560250437	395252975	Rush to Judgment: A Critique of the Warren Commission's Inquiry into the Murder of President John F. Kennedy	Books	3	4	10	N	Y	Mr. Lane is a better speaker than writer!	I truely believe in what Mark Lane is trying to prove- that is to DISprove the conclusions of the Warren Commission. However, I found &quot;Rush to Judgement&quot; to be so poorly written that he almost fails to prove what  conspiracy theorists like myself wish he could prove! Perhaps the  &quot;rush&quot; in the title refers to &quot;rush to print&quot;-before a  proper editing or rewrite job was complete. On paper, Mark Lane just  doesn't do a very good job. I once had the pleasure to hear Mr. Lane in  person, while I attended Cornell University in the mid 70s. He struck me as  a very open, honest and earnest man who believes in the &quot;Kennedy&quot;  subject. Regretfully, his verbal skils outweigh his written skills. And  since this is a book website and not a &quot;Toastmasters&quot; website,  this is a drawback. &quot;True Believers&quot; in the cospiracy theory  might wish to ignore this review and buy the book anyway. Casual readers  are forewarned!	2000-06-09
US	52139358	R2SUNXHFFT2TAY	0449911470	763579968	Power of Positive Thinking	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	IF you read it carefuuly!	I have read &quot;Power&quot; twice and have had 2 experiences. The best way is to read slowly (!), gleaning what you can and taking careful notes. DON'T try to read &quot;Power&quot; as a novel, as I did the first time.  Critics may carp that many of Dr. Peale's ideas appear in other &quot;self  help&quot; books and indeed they do.  But one would have to digest 4 or 5  of them to get the same amount of &quot;helpful hints&quot; that appear  here. It would be wrong to list these &quot;hints&quot; in a review because  that would be misleading. &quot;Power&quot; should be treated as a long  term project that the reader trying to help her/himself will periodically  put aside/refer back to-using those careful notes. &quot;Power&quot; may  not change your entire life (few books can) but it change your approach  (! )to life. I don'tnow how one could go wrong with such a selection- just  remember it's not a novel!	2000-06-09
US	52139358	R3HD04FF2VYMQ1	0375703926	947999501	The Hunters: A Novel	Books	2	1	15	N	Y	What Is the Fuss About ?	I was disappointed in this book, given the build up by reviwers, including a &quot;blurb&quot; in the New York Times Book Review. I happen to believe the Korean War is fascinating- more so than WW2 or even Vietnam.  But the  Korea story has been told elsewhere- and much better- by such writers as  James Brady (&quot;Coldest War&quot;) Donald Knox (&quot;Korean War&quot;  in 2 parts esp. the first) and General Matthew Ridgeway (&quot;Korean  War&quot;). Who would know the subject better than him?   One could argue  that those were concerned with the war on the ground. To that argument, I  would offer James Michner's &quot;The Bridges at Toko-Ri&quot; about naval  fighter pilots. I still can see that scene in the movie where Mickey Rooney  drops in his chopper to rescue William Holden- and the book was better! A  previous reviwer suggested getting this book at the library. As far as  &quot;The Hunters&quot; is concerned, that is good advice. Readers should  &quot;hunt&quot; for Korean War stories elsewhere.	2000-06-09
US	52139358	RH2M2LBD97488	0529107708	18920422	Finding the Right Church: A Guide to Denomination Beliefs	Books	2	12	30	N	Y	Has Glaring Ommissions !	I was hoping for much more from this book.  What is mystifying are the obvious ommissions. NO mention is made of the Roman Catholic Church, with its hundreds of millions of worldwide members. Also notable by its'  abscence is any mention of the Jewish religion.  For a New York City  native, those are two bigtime &quot;missing items&quot;.  The author also  fails to explain the differences within certain religions.  Why are there  so many branches of the Lutheran Church or among the Methodists?  Does Ms.  Steig have any idea?  &quot;Finding the Right Church&quot; reads like an  eighth grade term paper. It is ok for those seeking the most minimal,  general knowledge.  Those seeking real details of religions will be as  disappointed as I was. To steal a line from Walter Mondale, there is no  &quot;beef&quot; here.	2000-06-09
US	52139358	R1PVQU1NNQRWCU	0451166604	824428233	Small Sacrifices: A True Story of Passion and Murder	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Truth Is Truely Stranger Than Fiction!	Who needs a long review of an Ann Rule book, with so many to choose from? &quot;Small Sacrifices&quot; represents excellent reading as well as solid writing.  I actually thought &quot;someone else&quot; may have &quot;done  it&quot;. And that &quot;someone else&quot; is the most interesting  character of the A.R.  books I have read to date.The author maintains the  suspence well into the story. It's amazing how such sick people present  thnemselves as subjects for crime stories. If a fiction writer presented  &quot;Small Sacrifices&quot; to an editor, they would be thrown out of the  office on his/her ear!. But this is truth!  I'm a lifelong New York City  native but Ann Rule makes Oregon sound like a dangerous place. Maybe it  really is!	2000-04-22
US	52139358	RPZ1STMGTII4Q	0671036548	434975681	Grand Central Winter: Stories from the Street	Books	1	2	11	N	Y	Overrated!	I was disappointed by &quot;Grand Central Winter&quot;. In the first place, the title is very misleading. Very little action takes place in Grand Central Station or in &quot;wintertime&quot;. That may be nitpicky,  but frankly Mr. Stringer just can't write very well.  The reader is given  little insight into &quot;street life&quot; in New York or how the  &quot;system&quot; works against those it should be helping. There is also  little characterization of other homeless. Most of all, the author spends  many nights &quot;crashed&quot; in the offices of his employer,  &quot;Street News&quot;-so he is not actually even homeless or even  jobless. Non New Yorkers should not be deceived that &quot;Grand Central  Winter&quot; acurately descibes life on the streets of New York.	2000-04-10
US	52139358	R34Y8SUGNRWFO3	0451165594	511712066	The I-5 Killer, Revised Edition	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Good Job of Suspence!	Ann Rule does a good job here of keeping the suspence at a high leval well into the story. This is an improvement on the &quot;Stranger Beside Me&quot; where the public was partially familiar with the Ted Bundy story  from news reports. It's also an improvement on &quot;Dead by Sunset&quot;  which told the story of &quot;only&quot; one murder-with an obvious  culprit. &quot;The I-5 Killer&quot; also features a truely sick and evil  murderer-there is not the hint of good that Mr. Bundy may have had in him.  The bad guy is really a bad guy. We feel for his victims and are glad when  he is bought to justice.  Readers who actually live along Interstate 5,  especially in Oregon should be especially interested.	2000-03-31
US	52139358	R1HWXZR8VEET7O	0811717003	989898433	Street Without Joy (Stackpole Military History Series)	Books	5	62	67	N	Y	A cynical, serious look at a rotten war!	The late Bernard Fall presents a hard-hitting, cynical history of the French period in Vietnam in the 10 years just after WW2 and an even more  critical look at the early U.S. efforts in the early 1960s. This is not  light reading and its not pretty.It will give an accurate description of  what the &quot;West&quot; faced over there. As any Vietnam Vet would  attest, there is nothing &quot;light&quot; or &quot;pretty&quot; about that  place and cynical is the only appropriate attitude. It's so obvious now how  Ho Chi Minh and General Giap were successful.&quot;If only we knew  then...&quot; Mr. Fall also does a first rate job in compressing the  conflict into less than 400 pages (including notes and appendices). He  didn't have to recount every battle to paint his picture. This reader  appreciates his account of Viet Cong convoy attacks -from only one first  hand experience- they put cook, clerk and grunt alike in equal, sudden and  random danger. Its ironic that the author met his sudden death in just that  way. Serious students of the French years in Vietnam should read  &quot;Street Without Joy&quot; first and then proceed to &quot;Hell In a  Very Small Place&quot;, which concentrates on the tragic but heroic  struggle of the French Army at the garrison at Dien Bien Phu.  Were he  still with us,I'm sure M. Fall was one of those guys it would be great to  hava a few beers with. What stories he could tell! I'd love to know more  about the two prostitutes who were commended for bravery and proposed for  medals! What would Westy say about that!	2000-03-31
US	52139358	R17G9A6X91GHWR	0451165594	511712066	The I-5 Killer, Revised Edition	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Good Job of Suspence!	Ann Rule does a good job here of keeping the suspence at a high leval well into the story. This is an improvement on the &quot;Stranger Beside Me&quot; where the public was partially familiar with the Ted Bundy story  from news reports. It's also an improvement on &quot;Dead by Sunset&quot;  which told the story of &quot;only&quot; one murder-with an obvious  culprit. &quot;The I-5 Killer&quot; also features a truely sick and evil  murderer-there is not the hint of good that Mr. Bundy may have had in him.  The bad guy is really a bad guy. We feel for his victims and are glad when  he is bought to justice.  Readers who actually live along Interstate 5,  especially in Oregon, should be especially interested.	2000-03-31
US	52139358	R2VUUPR8NEQBVO	1563420104	112210888	From the Cab: Stories from a Locomotive Engineer	Books	3	10	14	N	Y	Sadly, for Serious! Railfans only	Doug Riddell takes the reader through his railroad career as fireman, brakeman, conductor, freight engineer and Amtrak engineer. The book falls short on several fronts: It is set far too small type-a definite strain on  the eyes. The spacing of the paragraphs and sequence of chapters are in no  logical sequence, making for confusing reading. There is also no glossary  of RR terms, which can be mystifying to the casual railfan. More seriously,  there is no explanation of RR labor workings or teminology. Why is Doug on  the &quot;extra board&quot; for fireman on an outbound trip, but forced to  be a conductor on the return trip. Why do crew based in Richmond have  different rights than crew based in Rocky Mount? This may reflect poor  editing as opposed to poor writing but &quot;From the Cab&quot; is still a  disappointment. Mr. Riddell is more effective at the short articles he  formerly wrote for the late, lamented &quot;Passenger Train Journal&quot;  than the longer fare of this book. If you are a serious railfan, especially  in the Virginia/Carolinas areas, ignore this review and buy the book  anyway. Others should think twice. Sad but true.	2000-03-29
US	52139358	R18WTALDDPQ4UP	037550270X	852533653	A Coach's Life : My Forty Years in College Basketball	Books	2	4	31	N	N	Strictly for Tar Heel Fans!	This is a year by year by year by year (!) review of Tar Heel basketball with Dean's life prior to Carolina thrown in for good measure.(He actually had one). It makes no effort to be balanced.  You see, Dean never made a  mistake, had a player who flunked out or got in trouble-ever! Down in  Chapel Hill, life goes on and the Heels keep winning. Phooey! I'll take  Bobby Knight throwing chairs and tantrums anyday. However, if you're from  Carolina or a UNC alum, ignore this review and buy the book right away.   You'll never notice the shortcomings. Now, how about a bio of Dean's  predecessor and mentor, Frank McGuire.(He first hired Dean as an  assistant). That would be a story.	2000-03-01
US	52139358	R3QAQKI2CNOPFI	0345435532	305326859	God of the Rodeo: The Quest for Redemption in Louisiana's Angola Prison	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Just Misses the Mark!	&quot;God of the Rodeo&quot; had the potential to be an outstanding story of life at the Louisiana State Prison known as Angola. The story is told from the inmate's viewpoint and mostly takes their sides.(How can you not like Littell?) The problem is Bergner needed an editor to organize his  story. I would have liked to read more about some of the inmates and their  families and much less about the author and his run-ins with Warden Cain.  Within these limitations, I still recommend the book. It makes for an  interesting gift idea!	2000-02-24
US	52139358	RKC991DG3BB6O	0670886939	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	5	20	35	N	N	Hits Hard-as it should.	This is not &quot;Catholic Bashing&quot;. This an honest attempt to document Pius X11s failure to help the Jews of Europe escape the Holocaust. Especially galling is his failure to help Roman Jews or even Jews who had  converted to Catholicism escape their fate. As long as Hitler left the  Catholic Church alone, Pius was apparantly satisfied. The harsh  authoritarian style of Pius comes for some justifiable criticism- a style  that persists to this day. Buy the bbok at the hardcover price- its worth  it and will make a fine gift to the student of Church affairs or 20th  century history.	2000-02-21
US	52139358	R147ID552FZQ9V	0671034278	559059053	Mean Justice	Books	3	4	6	N	Y	Good but Enough Already!	Mean Justice is an obviously well-researched book that tells it's story too convincingly and at too great a lenghth.  It remains worthwhile reading but someone should have edited Mr. Humes work by 50 pages or so. Those  unfamiliar with the author may prefer &quot;Mississippi Mud&quot;.  California residents should find &quot;Mean Justice&quot; particularly  interesting.	2000-02-21
