US	52137490	R2IPXT1KC6QNG3	1931229074	861390554	Rex Appeal: The Amazing Story of Sue, the Dinosaur That Changed Science, the Law, and My Life	Books	5	11	11	N	N	All Rex no Sex	\\"Rex Appeal\\" is the amazing story of one of the most significant fossil discoveries in the last fifty years. The story of \\"Sue\\" the fossil Tyrannosaurus Rex discovered by Peter Larson's associate Susan Hendrickson spins a web of intrigue from the moment the dinosaur's bones are discovered. With splashy headlines and national press coverage \\"Sue\\" becomes the darling of science, then the bane of Larson.  The landowner from whom the fossil was \\"bought\\" cries foul. Maurice Williams who is one eighth Lakota Sioux had put his land in trust with the United States Government. When Williams realizes the fossil may be worth many multiples of the $5000 he was paid for its excavation, the United States Government gets involved and when that happens it makes an IRS audit look like a toddler's birthday party.  The problem for Larson is that he is not strictly a scientist, but has established a for-profit organization called the Black Hills Institute. Not to say that Larson has nothing to contribute scientifically to the study of dinosaurs. His science is outstanding by current standards. But, the government suspects that Larson has nefarious intentions and pursues him with the fury of, well, of a pissed off T.Rex.  \\"Sue\\" is seized by the FBI and the South Dakota National Guard and the ensuing legal battle is extremely one-sided, according to Larson of course. He is confronted with an over-zealous prosecutor and a biased judge. Without hearing the other side of the story it's impossible to pass judgement on the veracity of the case against Larson. But it is safe to say that the judge in the case certainly defied all logic when he declared \\"Sue\\" real estate. 65 million year old bones hardly qualify as real estate, especially if the landowner was paid a handsome sum for their retrieval.  In the end Larson winds up in prison for nearly two years, his marriage to co-author Kristin Donnan dissolves, and his Institute is nearly bankrupt. Somehow Larson manages to emerge at the other endof the tunnel a changed man. He still pursues fossils with vigor after learning what many who have gone before him could have told him, \\"you can't fight City Hall\\".  The only criticism of the book is the complete lack of any intimations about Larson's relationship with co-author and ex-wife Kristin Donnan. Donnan is a free-lance writer who covers the \\"Sue\\" story and eventually falls in love with, and marries Larson. There is nothing in the book about their affairs. Whether that is intentional or not it would have at least contributed something to the story and clarified some of the events.   In all the book is highly recommended. Larson's theories about T.Rex and other issues related to dinosaurs are well thought out and informative. This book is a must for all us amateur paleontologists who can't get off our couches to go out west to do a little digging ourselves.	2004-09-21
US	52137490	R2QK5CSUPMWJI9	1585746312	737919808	A Good Life Wasted: or Twenty Years as a Fishing Guide	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Good Life Wasted writing a fabulous book	In A Good Life Wasted the author Dave Ames recounts his last twenty years as a fishing guide in the trout fishing capital of the universe, Montana. It is every true fly fisherman's dream to be reincarnated as a Montana fly fishing guide. As Ames aptly puts it in the opening line of the book, &quot;With all my fingers and all my splayed toes I still can't count the number of millionaires who have wished out loud that they could be me.&quot; <BR>They wouldn't wish it if they read on as Ames describes living in a rat infested trailer, bouncing checks and using a log in the great outdoors as a temporary outhouse until he can buy a toilet.<BR>  Ames' career begins as a hydrologist for the federal government who one day goes &quot;postal&quot; by punching a clock - literally. He bluffs his way into a job as a fishing guide working for a local Blackfoot Native American known affectionately as Kingfish. He plods his was through his early guiding days and his life becomes entangled in a contradictory world of haves and have nots.<BR>  The numerous stories Ames recounts meld seamlessly with each other and offer more lessons on life's moral and religious significance than on fishing.<BR>  Most books lose steam after the first couple of chapters - not this one. It becomes more intriguing and gets better as it goes. It is truly a page turner. The surest sign of a great book for me is when I am done do I tell myself I want more. The answer here is a resounding yes!<BR>  So, Mr. Ames, during the long Montana winters get cracking and put pen to pad and finger to keyboard and allow us to be temporarily reincarnated as you.	2003-12-09
US	52137490	R1KFXFSYVQUTMC	0671850059	371247783	The Human Odyssey: Four Million Years of Human Evolution	Books	4	4	13	N	Y	4 billion years of human evolution	Since Tattersall starts his book with the formation of the first living cells, the book actually encompasses 4 billion years of evolution. Nonetheless, this is a nice entry level book for a high school student interested in learning about the basics of paleontology and paleoanthropology. The chapters are short and crisp. The illustrations are well thought out and appropriate. Tattersall also nicely ties the book into the goings on at the American Museum of Natural History in New York, a great place to see some of the exhibits about which he writes. Some of Tattersall's information is stale because advances in paleoanthroplogy are happening so quickly.<BR>There is one rather bizarre comment in the foreword by Donald Johanson. He writes, \\"Like no other species that has ever lived, we control the life of all living things -- including ourselves...Extinction is forever. We must not let it happen.\\" This is surprising coming from such an educated man. Every good student of evolution knows that every species, including Homo sapiens, is destined for extinction. To suggest that Homo sapiens can exert some control over this process is egotistical nonsense.	2002-11-29
US	52137490	RMOVRZ8OWEIDH	1568387946	879631414	Silkworth: The Little Doctor Who Loved Drunks the Biography of William Duncan Silkworth, M.D.	Books	5	8	8	N	N	AA's silent partner	This book is a biography of a very interesting and persistent man, Dr. William Duncan Silkworth. Dr. Silkworth was a pioneer in the treatment of alcoholism in the early 1930's. The book's author Dale Mitchel does a fabulous job of researching Dr. Silkworth's background and detailing Dr. Silkworth's contribution to the treatment of alcoholism. It was one of Dr. Silkworth's patients who went on to form the basis of the most effective treatment of alcoholism today, Alcoholics Anonymous. <BR>It was Dr. Silkworth who took the enormous gamble of allowing one of his recovered alcoholic patients, Bill Wilson, to act as a lay therapist on the alcoholism ward during the first few weeks of his sobriety. The gamble paid off and over time the concept led to the formation of AA.<BR>Dale Mitchel felt that Dr. Silkworth did not get enough credit for his pioneering work, hence he set out to write the doctor's biography. But, how? Fortunately, Mitchel found all of Dr. Silkworth's personal papers in the possession of a niece of the doctor, Adelaide Silkworth. The result is not only a tribute to a great man, but also a very interesting story worth reading.	2002-11-29
US	52137490	R2GJTLOT84N5Q3	0930435362	921422880	Breaking the Ring (Bookcassette(r) Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Break His Neck!	This is a fascinating, well written book about the John Walker spy ring. The author does a great job giving the gory details about what it was that this guy did and how he finally got caught. It is amazing how a simpleton like Walker can get into a position of such authority. A breach of security on this level can really affect the lives of the young men and women serving in our military, to say nothing of our national security. I am not sure they can really come up with an appropriate punishment for a guy like this. The book also gives you insight into the workings of the KGB and the details about how these espionage operations work. You will enjoy it.	2002-11-24
US	52137490	RD504DFEVAWCR	0195109813	167044318	The Fossil Trail: How We Know What We Think We Know About Human Evolution	Books	1	9	26	N	Y	Fossilized Writing	How do you read a book for pleasure when the author is constantly stopping you from advancing by using one word parenthetical expressions? The answer is that you can't. This tome by Tattersall is in dire need of a good editing. It should be a warning for all those who would read scientific books; when the credits do not contain an &quot;edited by&quot; recognition, be wary.<BR>Don't get me wrong, Tattersall tackles an incredibly difficult topic and does a great job with the chronology and with the scientific facts. The problem is that his prose and grammar are so dreadful that the book is painfully difficult to read. Tattersall is constantly badgering the reader with silly, needless one word parenthetic expressions. <BR>Moreover, then, of course, indeed, you could choose to ignore these, well, annoying little pauses. And, therefore, you might, remakably, gain some knowledge and, well, insight into a, mostly, difficult subject. But, the fact that the book is so, well, scientifically informative, well, mostly.<BR>ENOUGH ALREADY!! Buy a red pencil and use it. A copy editor at a weekly local newspaper could have edited this book on short notice and made it a five star candidate in about two hours. Why no editor? I have no idea. I am surprised that Oxford Press would print a book with such glaring grammatical nonsense. The problem is that scientists think that their peers will forgive their literary gobbledygook if the topic has innate merit and the scientist has authority in the subject.<BR>My recommendation is to pass on this book. There are many other books that will give you the same information less painfully.	2002-11-24
US	52137490	R2II2G06CNY8TJ	0844204005	18575250	Grammar without Grief : The Ultimate A to Z for the Stylistically Clueless and the Grammatically Challenged	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Grammatical Reference	A great book for grammatical reference, especially well done in terms of organization by alphabetical order. It gives you descriptive explanations about some obscure things we use all the time in speech without knowing it. Things such as jargon, euphemisms, morphemes and phonemes are covered in addition to the classic grammatical necessities. Highly recommended.	2002-11-24
US	52137490	R3QPGZ3JPBI7YR	0060006641	545117488	On Writing Well, 25th Anniversary: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Well Written	Not only did this book educate me about how to write well, it inspired me to become a writer myself. Zinseer's writing is outstanding. He moves the reader along, as he encourages you to do in your writing, at a steady pace with sufficient pause to educate. However, don't be fooled. This book contains a tremendous amount of information and is a book that you will find yourself reading more than once. Zinseer covers a number specific areas including science, technology, arts, sports, business and others. Anyone who must do any writing as part of a job, or other civic duty, will benefit from reading this book. It is on my short list of references which I re-read whenever I have a chance.	2002-11-23
US	52137490	R3S8RFPDKDZY3Y	0028637550	956461065	Associated Press Guide to Newswriting (Study Aids/On-the-Job Reference)	Books	5	38	40	N	Y	Not just for Journalists	This book is a must reference for journalists. It is small enough to be read and re-read many times. Every journalist should be forced to read this book, and be quizzed on it, every six months. It would save the rest of us from having to read the awful writing in the manistream press. Even a non-journalist would enjoy this book. It will give you some insight into how news stories are written. Also, if you catch a journalist breaking these simple &quot;how to&quot; rules, you can move on to another more well written story.<BR>Personally, I would rather read a well written story about a topic in which I have no interest, than a poorly written story about something for which I am passionate.	2002-11-23
US	52137490	R2RO3UA7P9IZSQ	1577660021	320685700	Human Origins : The Fossil Record	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	The Complete Record	When you read this book you will realize why there is so much controversy about Human origins. The fossil record is so sparse, it makes you wonder how scientists have been able to deduce as much as they already have. This book was probably written as a reference for college level courses in paleoanthroplogy, but it is also a good reference for armchair amateurs such as myself. Concise, well written and superbly illustrated, the book is an invaluable resource.	2002-11-23
US	52137490	R3A31S4CO3CH8M	0898797764	523442581	Grammatically Correct	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Excellent Reference	This book is so good, my teenage son has discovered that he can use it as a better reference than his textbooks. The book is neatly written with a clear concise style. In addition to grammar, the book is a great resource for questions about usage, punctuation and spelling. As a journalist I need to have resources such as this readily available. I keep this one next to Strunk and White.	2002-11-23
US	52137490	R3FV77TKMIX9WE	0387987428	752246441	Adventures in the Bone Trade: The Race to Discover Human Ancestors in Ethiopia’s Afar Depression	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Stoned in Ethiopia!	Wow! If you like science, this book has it all. Kalb gives a serious accounting of plate tectonics, geology, anthropology, paleoanthropology and politics. Both the politics of Ethiopia and of hominid anthropology.<br />  This is the second book that I have read where Don Johanson, discoverer of the Lucy fossil, is lambasted. I am beginning to believe that Johanson left alot of people in his wake, including Kalb, on his way to fame and fortune. Kalb even gives details of Johanson's marijuana smoking exploits. Scandalous!<br />  It is Kalb who worked behind the scenes to elucidate the geology of the Afar region of Africa and set the stage for the advancement of many discoveries in the field of paleoanthropology. And he did it while dodging the bullets of a communist revolution! Kalb survives even though he is suspected of being a CIA operative planted in Ethiopia under the guise of his scientific mission. Kalb suspects that it was his falling out with Johanson that caused this little tidbit of doubt to be planted in the minds of the Ethiopian government. Kalb spends alot of effort over a few years fighting this charge, but he eventually loses and is expelled from Ethiopia.<br />  Kalb's story includes his sometimes angst ridden dealings with the Ethiopian government, who it seems are caught in the middle of a struggle of competing groups to exert dominance over the rich fossil beds of the Afar triangle. The struggle is not just between competing organizations of American science, but also between the Americans and a French team that comes close to stealing the show.<br />  The only flaw in the book is the way that Kalb weaves the recent history of Ethiopia into the book. That could have been a book in and of itself. Kalb is best when discussing geology and anthropology. The Ethiopian revolution and subsequent war with Somalia and Eritrea is distracting to the reader. Kalb's first hand journalist account of the struggles of the Ethiopian government is superb, but it would have stood on it's own. Kalb tried to write two books in one and almost pulled it off.<br />  One of the reasons why I read this genre of books is that it always offers surprises. One of Kalb's characters, Doug Cramer, assists in creating a couple of interesting fireside stories. Cramer taught Anatomy at NYU medical school. As an alumnus of NYU medical school, I remember Cramer well. We used to call him &quot;The Viking&quot; for his looks and demeanor. Cramer used to tell us that he was a &quot;pastist&quot;, and now, twenty-five years later I understand what he meant. I am sure that Kalb could easily have written a book solely dealing with Cramer's antics.<br />  This is a must read for any armchair paleoanthropologists like myself. I am now inspired to read &quot;Lucy&quot; again given all the information I have about Johanson. The book was a page turner for me and I think that you will enjoy it.<br />  Thank you, Jon Kalb, for your contribution to paleoanthropology. I hope that you can get back to Ethiopia to make some of the discoveries that you say will eventually be unearth there.	2002-11-08
US	52137490	R1C170R8MBX2IY	0471014923	494517852	Espionage: The Greatest Spy Operations of the Twentieth Century	Books	4	4	4	N	N	I Spy	This book is basically a series of short stories dealing with major spy operations, mostly involving World War II. The stories are interesting and well written but there is a certain similarity and synergism to the stories that does not come out well in this format. Also, the author gives compelling evidence that Amelia Earhart was on an espionage mission when she disappeared but the story leaves you wanting more. <BR>  I would use this book as an introduction to this genre and if you are interested there are a number of novels dealing with the individual stories. A number of books have been written about the Walker spy ring as well as other spy operations.	2002-10-24
US	52137490	R3G39W3FMWBRN4	0786866772	653324315	The Lobster Chronicles: Life on a Very Small Island	Books	1	7	14	N	N	Capitalizing on Disaster	I have not read Greenlaw's other book, The Hungry Ocean, but I assume its popularity was due to the enormous success of The Perfect Storm, by Sebastian Junger. The subsequent publicity that the gruesome episode garnered did not hurt either. In this book, Greenlaw attempts to follow up on that success by telling a tale of living on a small island as a lobsterman. The problems start immediately. It does not take long for Greenlaw to display her lack of writing ability. The grammar is so poor that, at times, the book is unreadable. To wit: \\"Mist caused tendrils curled so tight that I had been questioned about permanents.\\", \\"I measured, cut, spliced, and replaced carefully as my father brushed bright orange paint over last year's coat, buoy after buoy.\\", \\"When I had finally crept out from under the stern, I had straightened my back and looked up at the sun that I'd been shaded from for the nearly three hours it had taken me to complete the nastiest job in preparation for this year's lobster season.\\" After all this I had had had had about enough. I had only gotten to page eleven.    Even with improved grammar the story is not compelling enough to keep your interest. Her relationship with her father as first mate is heartwarming but boring.     My advice is to pass on this novel and if you are truly interested in a follow-up to The Perfect Storm, read Moby Dick. At least Herman Melville could write a coherent sentence.	2002-10-24
US	52137490	R173VYB3Q2A54M	0762705299	855895775	Campfire Tales, 2nd: Ghoulies, Ghosties, and Long-Leggety Beasties (Campfire Books)	Books	1	10	12	N	N	Campfire murder and mayhem	Do not be fooled by the luring cover of this book.  I bought the book in a bookstore in Lake Placid, NY while on a vacation with my family thinking I could read the stories to my three children in the wilderness.  What a mistake! This book contains numerous short stories, not about ghoulies, ghosties and long legged beasties as the cover suggests. It actually contains short stories about murder, mayhem, dismemberment, hostage taking, and child kidnapping.  Not the sort of thing you would want to read to your children around a campfire.  To wit: page 70 \\"Again, with the toe of his moccasin he touched the Cossack -- a grisly spectacle, no longer conscious -- yet in whose dismembered body the pain-racked life clung and was loath to go.\\"  Just awful.  Page 175: \\"Finally the big man's strength won out, and John held the knife to the throat of the brave who had fought so hard.  Without blinking so much as an eyelash, and with more strength than John knew he had left, he cut the Indian's throat so deeply that he severed the Indian's head from his body.  John decided to keep the head as a totem.\\"  If you think you can read this stuff to your children than by all means do so, but you are better off letting them watch the nightly news for this sort of gruesome ... .  I recommend making up your own stories and passing on this awful book.	2002-08-19
US	52137490	R3I9DGVX6SBFJH	0684864347	260023502	A Whale Hunt: How a Native-American Village Did What No One Thought It Could	Books	1	10	18	N	N	Hunt for an editor	In \\"A Whale Hunt\\", by Robert Sullivan, the main focus is on the effort -- and eventual success -- of the Makah tribe from Washington State in resurrecting their cultural heritage by hunting whales.  The story should be compelling, and Sullivan makes a valiant attempt to share the story from the viewpoint of the tribe.  The problem is that Sullivan apparently decided that it would be too expensive to invest in a proper editor, or that the editors at Simom and Schuster had better things to do than edit this book.  That leaves the reader with the  incomprehensibly difficult task of trying to sort out the grammatical errors. To wit: Page 22, \\"He is compact and bespectacled, and he was wearing khakis and a polo shirt.\\"  The change of tense in this sentence would have been picked up by even the most junior editor.  Even worse: Page 28, \\"Harriette talked of being in the Army and about a dream she had that involved a horse, which, to her, had something to do with Christianity being forced on the Indian people, and which became a poem.\\" It was impossible for me to continue to read this book after trying to sort out the meaning of this sentence.  I will save you all the trouble of plodding through this awful book.  A group of native Americans overcomes the objections of the \\"save the whale\\" environmental whackos, and in the process manages to recapture some of the heritage that was taken from them by European invaders.	2002-08-08
US	52137490	RAB4GP4VF0FCV	0312275617	411601900	Your Life In Your Hands: Understanding, Preventing, and Overcoming Breast Cancer	Books	5	30	32	N	Y	Nutrition and Cancer	This book by Jane Plant, a British geologist, deals with a very difficult and emotional subject for women, breast cancer. It also has the potential to raise the eyebrows of anyone with a scientific background. There are numerous traps that Jane Plant could have fallen into, however, she avoids all potential disasters and winds up with a very scientific treatise on the subject of nutrition and cancer (breast and prostate). The book is mostly about her fight against breast cancer and the revelation that Oriental women have a very low rate of breast cancer. From this morsel Jane deduces that there may be a significant dietary component to the cause of the disease. Working from there she goes on to discuss a number of scientific studies that involve the growth factors that are contained in dairy products. Jane uses logic and scientific fact to come to the conclusion that dairy products are the single most important factor causing breast cancer in western women. She concludes by offering an alternative diet for women who wish to lower their chances of contracting the disease. This book is a must read for any breast cancer activist and any health care professional who treats breast cancer in women. It is surprising that the book has not gotten more publicity and attention. I suspect the American dairy industry may have had something to do with that.	2002-08-08
US	52137490	RX978O8BFPCG6	0898866774	184192411	To the Top of the World: Alpine Challenges in the Himalaya and Karakoram	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Existential Mountain Climbing	In \\"To The Top of the World\\", Reinhold Messner not only solidifies his legend as a pioneering mountaineer, he also succedes in translating his innermost feelings and thoughts into words.  Messner's tales of his climbing exploits are interspersed with expression of his deep-seated fears and struggles to find meaning in life and death.  Messner has clearly been affected by the death of his brother Gunther, and the reader gets the sense that Messner climbs these mountains to exact revenge on the mountains, and himself for his brother's death.  Messner himself is constantly drawing the reader into the depths of the human soul on the brink of death.  The details of the climbs are broken by the ever-present underlying theme of the profound relationship between mountaineering and life and death.  Messner's eloquence and ability to draw on the reader's emotion is sensational.  The frequent photographic images, although welcome, almost detract from the spiritual nature of the book.  Messner gives the reader the ability to feel the climb and experience the elation and despair that is Himalayan climbing.  The one fault I find is in the slick omission of details of his relationship with Nena Holguin.  We move from a married Messner, to a single, loving Messner without even a segue in the form of an explanation.  Nevertheless, the book is a fabulous read, and a great accomplishment by the prolific Mr. Messner.  It is painfully clear that in high altitude mountain climbing, longevity may indeed be decided by fates out of our control, and Mr. Messner is the master of his domain.<BR>Anthony M. Frasca,M.D.	2002-05-03
US	52137490	R1A6XDEFUYQB67	1885408331	757911765	EPIC: Stories of Survival From The World's Highest Peaks (Adrenaline) (The Adrenaline Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Epic, delivers the goods	This book is essentially a compilation of short stories from books written by world class mountaineers.  Anyone who is well read in this genre will immediately recognize these short stories.  The stories are exceptionally well written and edited.  Some are epic survival tales and others document the never ending string of tragedies that befall many mountaineering expeditions.  The format works  well even though the stories are in no particular time sequence.  I highly recommend this book, and many of the other books from which the stories have been excerpted.  Pick some of your favorite short stories from this book and follow up with the complete tomes.  You will not be disappointed.	2002-04-23
US	52137490	R2GQCJYPHBSIA2	0060953616	46075101	Climbing High: A Woman's Account of Surviving the Everest Tragedy	Books	1	6	13	N	N	Climbing high , writing low	In &quot;Climbing High&quot; Lene Gammelgaard, a Danish mountaineer, becomes the first Scandanavian woman to summit Mount Everest.  The book is essentially a chronicle of that historic achievement.  This is another in the long line of books that deal with the storm of 1996 that wiped out a number of great climbers and their clients.  So far so good.  The problems start right away for Gammelgaard when she starts to write.<BR>  The book is written in a disjointed &quot;what I did on my summer vacation&quot; sort of way.  There is little attempt at anything remotely resembling prose.  Each paragraph is tersely written in a notepad jotting sentence structure.  Gammelgaard makes a number of rookie grammatical errors that cry out for editing.  For example, &quot;I, myself, have great difficulty...&quot;  As Strunk and White would say, who else would I be other than myself.  Another goes, &quot;Gonna be fun...&quot;.  Even my six-year-old knows that gonna is not a proper word.<BR>  As if this is not enough, Gammelgaard also throws in a few cheesy existential observations that shed no light on the true motivations of semi-suicidal mountaineers. To wit, &quot;I seek solitude, to connect with inner peace.  Tai Chi among the giants of the universe.  Belonging.  Absolute serenity.&quot;  I wonder how much solitude and inner peace Gammelgaard had while performing bodily functions in full view of male expedition members.<BR>  There is very little to be gained by reading this book other than a personal profile and chronicle of Gammelgaards achievement.  The book sheds no further light on the 1996 tragedy.  I recommend passing on this one.	2002-04-19
US	52137490	R22CI0LSERWSF8	0898866839	330667963	K2: The Story of the Savage Mountain	Books	1	3	9	N	Y	K2 The Unreadable Story	This book starts out with a great premise; to tell the story of the expeditions to the Karakoram region of the Himalaya with the eventual climbing and summiting of the second highest mountain on the planet, K2. In the beginning the author tempts you with some history, including with how the mountain was named and how difficult exploration was in yesteryear. The story progresses to epic struggles to climb the mountain for the first time, then wends its way to the present,with the every increasing body count from continuing suicidal attempts to defy nature. So far so good. The author has an enormous wealth of information to draw from, and to paint a picture of the history of K2. However, he fails miserably. The profusion of names and camps and who is going up and who is coming down gets mixed in a miasma of poor grammar and storytelling. Some examples: Page 139, &quot;In the event it was only four who had the opportunity, but this was to be a long way off.&quot; Page 190, &quot;Now, just below the Shoulder, they were faced with a tent shortage and, in what came to be seen as one of the most controversial moments of the summer, they did a deal with the Korean expedition whereby they carried a Korean tent and some fixed rope up to the Shoulder and in exchange for fixing the rope above the Bottleneck they would be allowed to use the tent for their first summit push.&quot;. If you can read these two examples less than twice and understand what the author is saying, then you will enjoy this book. My opinion is that this is what happens when your friends do your editing. Words such as &quot;learnt&quot;, phrases such as &quot;to try and&quot;, and &quot;caught them up&quot;, would have easily been spotted and corrected by any decent editor. In short, I expected alot from this book and was disappointed by the painful way I had to get it. I would stick to Reinhold Messner's books, and pass on this one.	2002-04-08
US	52137490	RPCPB4IW5X04T	0811820513	9758149	Belles Lettres An Art Deco Writing Tablet (Belles Letters)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Classy Writing Paper	&quot;Belles Lettres&quot; is a wonderful, handy, writing tablet.  The paper is thick and accepts roller ball ink very easily.  I use a fountain pen and find that the ink flows readily onto the thick receptive paper.  The tablet has handy elastic corner holders to keep the tablet closed when not in use.  This is useful when storing other loose documents.  I am a reporter and I use this tablet wherever I go.	2001-11-30
US	52137490	R33Y3I7UKHBMAM	068485936X	566879170	Ancient Encounters: Kennewick Man and the First Americans	Books	3	8	17	N	Y	Battling the Government for fossils	In &quot;Ancient Encounters&quot;, author James Chatters narrates a tale of a fossilized skeleton accidentally discovered by two young boys playing by a riverbed in Kennewick, Washington. The early chapters of the book describe the discovery of the fossilized skeleton, named Kennewick man, and the dating of the remains to almost 9,500 years ago. The author has custody of the remains for study but local Native Americans and seemingly corrupt workers of the Army Corps of Engineers act quickly to attempt to get the remains for &quot;repatriation&quot; according to the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA), an act that seemingly ignores the possibility that a fossil so old may not even have been ancestral to Native Americans. The author scrambles to preserve the fossils for scientific study and enlists the assistance of numerous political and scientific contacts. The Smithsonian Institution eventually asserts domain over the fossils and agrees to arrange for the author to bring the fossils to Washington, DC. The author feels that the timing of the Smithsonian's arrangements is going to jeopardize his custody of the fossils, snatching defeat from the jaws of victory. At this point the reader feels like shaking the author and telling him to put the darn fossils in his trunk and drive to Washington, DC. Alas, the fossils are lost to the legal system, where it seems it will take another 9,500 years to resolve the issue.<BR>In the latter chapters of the book the author describes various other fossil finds and theories about the identity of the Paleo-Americans, and theories about how they arrived on this continent. It is this latter section of the book that is at times disjointed and poorly written. It is difficult to discern fact from postulate. A condensed tighter version would have been less painful to read. The subject of Paleo-Americans is interesting and the book does offer some insights into current theories and scientific methods. However, Ipersonally find it a bit curious that brilliant scientists waste so much time and energy attempting to unearth peoples of the past, then leave it to the politicians to figure out how to feed their overpopulated descendants.	2001-09-15
US	52137490	R14CQ1N680JXJ7	0446525596	737635763	Let's Go to the Videotape: All the Plays and Replays from My Life in Sports	Books	2	0	0	N	Y	&quot;Gimme a break&quot;	Warner Wolf is an endearing character and a fabulous sportscaster.  Never one to pull a punch, Mr. Wolf makes it his lifelong ambition to correct all idiotic rules and misnomers in modern sports.  The problem is that he does it much better as a television personality than as a writer.  I have no problem with opinionated people, but in a novel at least  some effort should be made to offer the arguments of both sides before tendering the author's opinion.  Also, there are so many chapters that are no more than a few paragraphs long.  I found that to be somewhat tedious.  It is more enjoyable to read a book where the author spins the story around many similar events and ties them together rather than penning numerous disjointed anecdotes.  Nothing more is revealed here than many of Mr. Wolf's fans do not already know so they will be disappointed.  The argument about the admission of Pete Rose into baseball's Hall of Fame hardly ranks up there with the exclusion of Galileo from the Catholic Church.  Gimme a break!	2001-09-04
US	52137490	R5INIIT6JXBY1	0684800004	473076433	Java Man : How Two Geologists' Dramatic Discoveries Changed Our Understanding of the Evolutionary Path to Modern Humans	Books	3	13	15	N	Y	Java Man, and the battle at the Institute for Human Origins	The book \\"Java Man\\" is a very interesting story about the dating of the fossil skull found on the island of Java in 1892. The \\"Homo Erectus\\" fossil was discovered by the Dutch scientist Eugene Dubois. The early chapters are a short chroncile of the discovery made by Dubois and the subsequent scientific debate created by the discovery of the fossil that was, at the time, touted as the \\"missing link\\". The fossil is now known to be a \\"Homo erectus\\" child. The book goes on to describe modern geochronology techniques and the farcical attempts by the scientists to obtain some material from the skull for dating. They manage to obtain a very small sample from the mysterious, ethereal professor Jacob on the equally backward and primitive island of Java. The dating of the fossil causes a stir in the cut throat world of paleoanthropology. The story is gobbled up and disseminated by a hungry press. What follows is a polarized account of the geochronologists battle with their patrons at the Institute for Human Origins, founded by the brilliant scientist Donald Johanson, discoverer of the \\"Lucy\\" fossil. The \\"divorce\\" of the geochronologists from the Institute of Human Origins is laundered with a number of parting shots at Donald Johanson. The latter part of the book is devoted to evaluating current hypotheses about ancient man, the evolution of bipedalism and the evidence for the development of tools and language by our ancestors. Included in this section is the current debate about the spread of man throughout the ancient world, leading to the current, overpopulated state of \\"Homo Sapiens\\". The \\"single-species\\" versus the \\"multi-regional\\" hypotheses are covered in depth, with the scientists clearly favoring the \\"single-species\\" hypothesis. The book concludes with the publication of the scientific paper titled, \\"Latest \\"Homo Erectus\\" of Java: Potential Contemporaneity with \\"Homo Sapiens\\" in Southeast Asia.\\" The paper buries the \\"multi-regional\\" hypothesis and causes a paradigm shift in the world of paleoanthropology.   The book is, at times, needlessly verbose. The story, though interesting, could be told in half the number of pages. The \\"divorce\\" from the Institute of Human Origins should have been completely eliminated. I find it tedious that scientists are continually waging their battles with other scientists in print.	2001-09-04
US	52137490	RJG7M1KIVDGIG	006095373X	207910478	In Siberia	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Siberian odyssey	Colin Thubron's travel novel &quot;In Siberia&quot; is a great way to escape to a forbidding primitive land, without ever having to go there yourself.  This is precisely why I enjoyed reading his book and I think you will also.  Mr. Thubron is an exceptional writer and leaves no stone unturned in his quest to discover the mysteries of Siberia.  The tale is spun around his encounters with interesting characters hanging on to an imperialist Russia that has long been abandoned, along with commoners that seem to welcome the stranger warmly.  He mixes in a bit of cinematic landscape descriptions along with some interesting history lessons.  The only problem I had with the book was Mr. Thubron's use of uncommon words that have me baffled to this day.  Words such as: glacis, louche, threnody, tarantas, psalteries, chrysalides, coeval, billeted and others left me constantly scrambling for my dictionary, interrupting the flow of the book.  Nonetheless, I found the book to be engaging and enjoyable reading while capturing the mystery and otherworldliness of Siberia.	2001-09-04
US	52137490	R2KNSCTPP18GG8	0898865735	679283469	Reinhold Messner, Free Spirit: A Climber's Life	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The alpine icon	The achievements of Reinhold Messner are legendary. Among them, he is the first man to have ascended Mount Everest without supplemental oxygen. He is also the first man to have climbed all fourteen 8000-meter peaks. Mr. Messner could rightfully be quite boastful and egotistic in his writing. Exactly the opposite is true. The book was panned by a number of reviewers for being \\"dry\\". This is precisely why I find the book so engaging and interesting. Mr. Messner narrates his achievements in a matter of fact manner leaving the reader to fill in the enormity of his spirit. Personally, I find the single-minded obsession of mountain climbers to be somewhat bizarre. Yet, I find reading about the tales of misery and death to be entertaining. I admire Mr. Messner for his unbridled enthusiam for mountain climbing and also for his restraint in narrating the tales.	2001-09-04
US	52137490	R12FPKI50RUK3B	1571881387	99792814	A Perfect Fish: Illusions in Fly Tying	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	The perfect fishing book	A perfect fish is a remarkable accomplishment.  Kenney Abrames manages to smoothly meld fly-tying and flyfishing technique, with philosophy and art.  The narrative is poetic yet descriptive.  The art is alive.  The flyfishing  information is incredibly interspersed with thoughts on technique, and  philosophy.  A book you can read and re-read and continue to gain insight  and information.  Its all there.  Not a word or phrase is wasted.  A must  for any saltwater angler.	1999-11-02
US	52137490	R30NXZJA28YREG	1885283059	184757711	Annapurna (Adventure Library)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Exciting tale of Himalayan adventure	Annapurna is a chronicle of a 1950 Himalayan adventure by a French expedition led by the author Maurice Herzog.  The book is a fascinating account of the first assault on an 8000 meter peak, Annapurna.  The  adventure is all the more fascinating due to the pioneering nature of the  expedition.  Little was known in 1950 about the geography of the area or  about high altitude mountaineering.   Mr. Herzog's account can be confusing  at times, but the book is riveting.  Mr. Herzog and his friend Louis  Lachenal succeed in summitting, but at great personal expense.  The true  hero of the book, however, is Dr. Jacques Oudot.  He bravely worked under  primitive conditions for weeks to save the lives of Lachenal and Herzog.   If you liked Into Thin Air, you'll love Annapurna.	1999-03-06
US	52137490	R3L2CAYF5RKKLO	0894806041	346127950	Digging Dinosaurs	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Dinosaur egg hunt	Digging Dinosaurs, by John Horner, is a firsthand account of the discovery of fossilized Dinosaur eggs that led to extensive discoveries of nesting sites in Montana.  The book describes the geology of the area, the  discovery of the nesting sites, their excavation, and the changes in  paleontology that ensued.  The book was made all the more fascinating by  the fact that you can visit the actual site, called egg mountain.  The  Museum of the Rockies, in Choteau, Montana sponsors tours.  On a recent  trip to Montana, my wife and I took the tour and met John Horner, digging  up more dinosaurs.	1999-03-06
