US	52148563	R1I592UPEGKRW9	086171380X	487214124	Hardcore Zen: Punk Rock, Monster Movies and the Truth About Reality	Books	3	209	229	N	N	Entertaining and insightful, but . . .	Brad Warner deserves credit for writing a book that both is fun to read and does a pretty good job of explaining the most significant philosophical aspects of Zen Buddhism.  Many an experienced practitioner has failed to convey as insightfully as Warner what Zen is about, let alone with such a sense of humor.   The book does much of what Warner presumably set out to do: introduce Zen to younger folks who know little or nothing about it and might be put off by more traditional works. He does it without much pandering to the typical inclinations of some members of the target audience, such as the hope that drug use presents a viable alternative, or even supplement, to Zen practice. So I recommend it; you'll learn a lot and you won't be bored.    Nonetheless, the book has some significant shortcomings.  While Warner does a fine job of presenting the present-centered aspect of Zen, which is critical, he overlooks almost entirely that Zen, like all Buddhism, is also about compassion. Unfortunately, Warner often expresses the opposite.  While it's very tempting to ridicule those who don't \\"get it,\\" and even more, those who imagine wrongly that they do, and while sniping at the supposedly (or actually) ignorant can be very entertaining when done artfully -- and Warner is good at it, and I have little sympathy for his targets -- his disdain for the benighted becomes wearying after a while, and it reveals that, transmission or no transmission, he has a way to go himself before he is able to walk the talk of the bodhisattva ideal.  Arrogance is not merely unattractive, it indicates a lack of realization, and this cannot be entirely negated merely by acknowledging it (which Warner never actually does), and continuing to express it in the name of \\"accepting what one is.\\"  Snide may be cool, but it doesn't reflect the awakened state.  So, regardless of his personal cultural preferences (his taste in music, or clothing, or whatever), Warner does come off as intellectually sophisticated but emotionally immature.    Second, Warner never actually tells the reader how to practice.  Worse, he starts to, describing the traditional posture for zazen (complete with inaccurately labeled diagram), but his implication that merely sitting in this posture and looking at a wall constitutes shikantaza is not merely incomplete, but fundamentally misleading. Being a Soto practitioner and proud of it, Warner also dismisses other zazen methods as for-beginners-only, and therefore doesn't describe them, either.  Warner wasn't compelled to explain what it means to actually practice -- there's nothing wrong with a book that focuses on the philosophical side -- but once he started down that road, he really ought to have presented at least a basic, accurate outline.  It would be a shame if readers came away from the book imagining that all they have to do is sit in the correct posture and the rest will take care of itself.	2005-10-07
US	52148563	R1S8MH8H24E59V	0375406778	246289375	No Country for Old Men	Books	5	31	57	N	N	Another great one from the master	The bell hanging on the rope jangled and the glass door banged shut.  The three browsing patrons looked up and went back to their books.  He pulled his hat off and holding it in front of him walked over to the desk and stood.  You looking for somethin?  This a bookstore aint it.  Yeah, it sayin bookstore on the sign I reckon it jus might be one a them.  I'd kindly like a book then.  Don't say.  Yes I do.  No, you don't is why I said that.  I kindly beggin your pardon but I do.  Well then.  Sometimes when a man says he's lookin for a book sometimes he don't know but he might be lookin for something else.  Sometimes when he says he's lookin for a book it might be that the book is lookin for him.  Sometimes it might be that he and the book are lookin for somethin else entirely.  Don't say.  I kindly do say.  He glanced over out the window and the sun was shining on the steepletop like birth itself on the morning the lord took his first breath when all the world was new like breath from a mare's nostrils at twenty below.  If I was lookin for something else I kindly think I'd of knowed it.  That may be.  It may.    It may not.  Then if you'll kindly excuse me I'll be goin across the street to the other bookstore now.  Now hold on there friend I was just raggin you.    And then he shot him.	2005-09-23
US	52148563	R1JH6P1F4SBHAJ	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Great Read And Contrived	There are two types of reviews here -- \\"Fabulous!  I couldn't put it down!\\"  and \\"Entertaining, but the ending was so contrived.\\"  I agree with both.  Like others, I read it in two days, couldn't wait to read a few more pages.  And like a few other readers, I was disappointed that what starts out as an extremely touching, well-written novel that seems so real I couldn't help but assume that much of it was based on the author's experience, ends up with a series of eye-rolling coincidences, just like the Hollywood movie it's bound to become.  Don't get me wrong -- as soon as I finished, I immediately began urging my friends to read it, and will continue to do so; its flaws can't alter the fact that it's a touching, powerful, engrossing read.  But . . . .  I never understood why some people complain that Steven Speilberg's films are \\"manipulative;\\"  isn't that what a movie is supposed to do -- play with your emotions?  This book made me understand a little; you are led down a path that is not merely emotional, but painfully so, and then you realize that it's all a sham, and the author likely has less in common with his protaganist than with the many writers tapping away in the hope of creating a best-seller and then selling the movie rights.  While this doesn't prevent the book from being a very worthwhile experience, it does, in my mind, prevent it from being truly great.	2005-07-20
US	52148563	R36T5NCQFC0LAK	037570342X	564250926	Family Matters	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Worthwhile	If you read A Fine Balance, and enjoyed it (as I did), you'll likely enjoy Family Matters as well; the two have much in common.  Both follow Parsis in contemporary India through circumstances that are both believable and fascinating, familiar yet unusual.  Mistry clearly has a gift for unpretentious storytelling, and his characters come alive; at the end of both books you will likely find yourself feeling as though the characters were real people whom you wish you could look in on now and then.  The author does have a tendency to introduce catastrophy into his characters' lives.  Although we can certainly imagine such events occurring -- it requires no great suspension of disbelief -- the reader may find him/herself wondering whether it is really necessary to drop bombshells in every novel to create dramatic tension.  But this is a quibble -- Mistry is a very fine writer.	2005-06-30
US	52148563	R1MHBC9G1J71E	0060563613	205321721	The Power of Self-Dependence: Allowing Yourself to Live Life on Your Own Terms	Books	1	4	10	N	N	Almost worthless	I picked this up figuring it might be worth the deeply discounted price I paid; I'd thumbed through it and it seemed insightful, notwithstanding the blatent self-help title and cover.  As I read through it, though, I kept waiting for the author to start putting his rambling, meandering musings together into something reasonably coherent and practical, but he never does.  In fact, the more I read, the less coherent the book became, sounding more and more like a psychologist pacing in his office, dictating his random thoughts, before moving on to some other, more lucrative task.  The ideas are very elementary, and tend to be repeated and illustrated with overly obvious stories, suggesting that the author was trying to stretch already thin material into a book.  I'm not familiar with the author's other books; perhaps he has some interesting ideas but has expressed them already elsewhere.  I'm not motivated to find out now.	2005-04-15
US	52148563	R1T2NUQ6OM4EM8	0345371135	234936263	The Quincunx	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Gripping fun	It took maybe fifty pages for me to become totally engrossed in the plot, and after that, I was grabbing it at every opportunity to find out what happens next.  The incredibly intricate plot is based on families fighting over several generations for the right to a vast estate; the author goes into great detail about the legal ramifications of various eventualities that may or may not actually occur.  Although I doubt that many readers truly followed every twist and turn of these legalities (I've been a lawyer, albeit not a real estate lawyer, for many years and my eyes glazed over at points), this in no way makes it difficult to understand what happens or enjoy it.  Nor does the fact that the plot contains a tremendous number of seeming coincidences and near-disasters and other events that may make the reader roll his or her eyes in disbelief; it's still great fun.  The characters are larger than life in a Dickensian manner; villainous villains, painfully naive women, etc.  But, again, it doesn't matter how sophisticated you may think you are -- it's fun, and you'll happily suspend disbelief.	2005-04-05
US	52148563	R3K0HED1ZRXWUX	0452269652	522305574	Jazz	Books	2	0	4	N	N	Not for me	First off, I've read some novels that are far more difficult to read than Jazz.  More than a few; this is not particularly experimental or confusing stuff.  The question is whether it's worth the trouble, however slight that may be.  For me, it was not.  I had read Beloved, which I found more difficult, or at least labored, stylistically, and which I didn't particularly care for despite the acclaim heaped on it.  I gave Jazz a try because Morrison has such a following and this work also was highly recommended.  Although I'm sure many who are neither black nor women have greatly enjoyed and admired Morrison's work, I suspect that it helps to be one or the other, or both.  I am neither, and I feel she writes for a different audience, just as, say, Jewish readers are more likely to be moved by the typical Roth novel or Singer story, although anyone might enjoy it. I found Jazz's style to be forced, as though Morrison sat down and decided she was going to write a novel using language that mimics a stereotypical jazz cadence, which I found obvious. Repeated reference to Harlem as \\"the City\\" did not strike me as particularly clever. The story itself does not go very far beyond what has been summarized in other reviews.  Yes, it provides several characters' points of view of the same situation, as do countless other novels, many to better effect, since in Jazz, these different perspectives do not shed much additional light on what is essentially a fairly mundane plot.  This was one of those novels that, after the first fifty pages, I kept checking how much more I had to read to finish.	2005-03-08
US	52148563	R18L3TE0W9X13E	0312326998	764840640	The Trouble with Islam: A Muslim's Call for Reform in Her Faith	Books	4	17	24	N	N	Courageous	As some other reviewers have correctly noted, and as anyone who scans the other reviews will immediately see, this book will not appeal to those who cannot abide any form of criticism of Islam.  And there apparently are some such folks who review books on Amazon; I read my share of Amazon reviews and I've never seen so many foaming-at-the-mouth, poorly-written reviews denouncing the author for daring to challenge the reviewer's cherished beliefs, such as the sanctity of their vicious bigotry against lesbianism. Their reviews, whether half-witted diatribes or windy lectures on the history of Islam, fail to appreciate that the values of \\"real\\" Islam are beside the point.  One need not doubt that Islam is a revealed religion as capable as any other of helping one to realize one's spiritual potential -- indeed, anyone who doesn't understand that knows nothing of Islam -- to also believe that the culture and politics of Islam as actually practiced by many today do not always reflect the ideals espoused by the religion in its purest form.      I agree with the comments that the book holds the reader's attention -- the author knows how the write -- and that she is a little breezy for my taste.  Perhaps you don't get to be a TV personality willing to write a book critical of Islam unless you're also something of a wiseass, which she is.    One point I didn't find in the book is that virtually every significant criticism that is leveled at Islam (as it is practiced) may with equal validity be said of almost any religion, or at least one or more sects of any religion.  Setting aside all past histories of abusive practices, I'm sure many alive today who were raised in strict Catholic, fundamentalist Christian, or Orthodox Jewish families would have very similar stories to tell about patriarchy and close-mindedness.  Other reviewers criticize the book's failure to hold other religions to the same standards, and with justification.  The main difference I can see is that at thisparticular moment in history it happens to be some Muslims who are openly calling for violence against others on grounds that appear to lack any basis in a specific grievance, or interest in concrete resolution other than destroying opposition; to be sure, at other times, the shoe has been on the other foot.  Some might say that these days, the shoes are on both feet.      That some in the West are not dealing intelligently with any form of Islam (or any form of anything) does not negate that there may be fundamental problems with the way Islam is being practiced by many today.  This book presents a readable, entertaining perspective on some of those problems.	2004-11-01
US	52148563	RTO2XSZJHCLLU	0345323211	933211329	Tough Guys Don't Dance	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Fun But Disappointing	I picked this one up because I'd never read any Mailer and figured it was about time.  Maybe I should have stuck with one of the classics, but the library was out of Armies of the Night and Naked and the Dead.  No question, he can write, and had no trouble sustaining my interest for the 225 pages or so.  But the premise that sucks you in -- man wakes up to find he's gotten a tatoo he can't remember getting, and may have been on a killing spree he also can't remember -- leads to a terribly convoluted tale that deserved -- and needed -- a much more careful rendering.  Had Mailer taken twice as many pages and the trouble to lead the reader through the story, it might have been fascinating to see how the intricate plot developed, but after a hundred and fifty fun pages he just decides to throw the explanation for everything at you all at once, like a B-movie in which the villain for some unexplained reason just can't stop explaining his scheme to the hero before killing him.  In fact, that's exactly what happens.  I felt cheated, as though he just didn't want to bother.	2004-10-30
US	52148563	R27FHJ3FYIJARR	0877288445	693043108	Self-Remembering	Books	2	93	103	N	N	An Important Message In Pretentious Form From a Creepy Guy	Most of the most positive reviews of this book come from members of the Fellowship of Friends, the cult (and I use the term advisedly) Mr. Burton founded based on some of the ideas of Gurdjieff, and therefore they hype the book in glowing terms as may be expected of a devoted follower who imagines he is rather clever by anonymously shilling his master's book.  As a former member, and someone who knew Mr. Burton better than I wish I did, I'll resist the temptation to offer insights into how Mr. Burton's personal habits contributed to there being so many more former members than members; suffice it to say that he's at best a very peculiar man, and while possibly a remarkable teacher, he's also as close to being truly evil--or at least without any discernable conscience--as any person I have encountered, raising the interesting question of whether a &#34;spiritual&#34; methodology may be said to &#34;work&#34; if its practitioners remain, or even become, sociopathic, paranoid, and absurdly self-aggrandizing, as is the case with Mr. Burton. (And don't be too quick to roll your eyes over my use of the word &#34;evil&#34; until you've done your research about the author of this book; he's got quite a history.)<br /><br />The book itself is a collection of Burton's thoughts and one-liners he's been recycling for many years--decades--strung together, divided into chapers, and sold as a book. Other than putting the one-sentence aphorisms into the form of paragraphs, no attempt has been made to actually write a book, to explain anything, to offer a coherent teaching; this is like flashcards about self-remembering in book format.<br /><br />Nevertheless, the book does emphasize the most critical aspect of the Gurdjieff teachings -- perhaps the most critical aspect of spiritual development -- the need to be present, as Gurdjieff put it, &#34;always and everywhere.&#34; Since the significance of this cannot be overemphasized, if the reader gains from the book some greater motivation to actually practice, the book will be among the reader's most valuable purchases. Mr. Burton's inclination to present his limited insights in stilted language, with pretenses of being a scholar, may reflect his insecurites about his own humble origins, limited formal education, and inability to write a real book, as opposed to a series of aphorisms edited by his disciples, but that doesn't mean there's nothing to be gained from reading it.<br /><br />There is little truly original in the book, and it is filled with restatements of observations made by historical figures Mr. Burton admires.  It also is filled with observations and musings that, while perhaps true on some level and seemingly Zen-like, are trivial, fortune-cookie assertions, notwithstanding that the author may consider them really heavy.  (Those who spent time around Burton may recall hearing him repeat, on countless occasions over many years, the assertion that &#34;the universe is a limitless omnidirectional void,&#34; which appears again in this book. Is this profound? Is it even accurate? Is the universe a &#34;void&#34; notwithstanding the existence of a trillion stars, not to mention dark matter, etc.?) The fact is, Mr. Burton is simply not a particularly erudite or articulate man, although the reader may imagine otherwise based on the pretentious writing style. (Check out the first page; if you are attracted to the idea of copying out &#34;To be present where one is is the simple story of one's life&#34; and pasting it on your bathroom mirror, this book's for you, since there are plenty more where that came from.)<br /><br />I find the huckstering attempts of this Arkansas-born (his middle name is Earl), San Jose State-educated, son of a butcher to sound like an 18th Century gentleman in spats and top hat a little off-putting myself, but perhaps other readers may like to join in the spirit of the book and imagine themselves reading what Ouspensky quaintly called esoterica, being related bythe New Yorker magazine mascot. The message, if not the messenger, is well worth it.  (By the way, check out Mr. Burton's absurdly blantant copying of the cover of a popular edition of P.D. Ouspensky's In Search of the Miraculous, a bona fide classic of the Gurdjieff literature.  That ought to tell you something about Mr. Burton's rip-off methods.)<br /><br />An update to this review:<br />Mr. Burton has radically reinvented his teaching in the past couple of years, which now is unintelligible gibberish instead of merely distorted posturing about Gurdjieff's work. When I say &#34;gibberish,&#34; I'm not exaggerating.  The man is quite mad.  He no longer speaks of Gurdjieff or Ouspensky at all, and his &#34;teaching&#34; is incoherent mumblings about signs and symbols he sees everywhere.  I urge any prospective buyer of this book to spend a few minutes reading about the author and his cult on a blog easily located through a web search.  Self-remembering may be a wonderful tool (I think so), but there are many other books out there with the same message from people who aren't nuts, and even care about their disciples. This one arguably is worth the one penny being asked by third-party venders, although the shipping charge is debatable.sage, if not the messenger, is well worth it.  (By the way, check out Mr. Burton's absurdly blantant copying of the cover of a popular edition of P.D. Ouspensky's In Search of the Miraculous, a bona fide classic of the Gurdjieff literature.  That ought to tell you something about Mr. Burton's rip-off methods.)  An update to this review: Mr. Burton has radically reinvented his teaching in the past couple of years, which now is unintelligible gibberish instead of merely distorted posturing about Gurdjieff's work. When I say &#34;gibberish,&#34; I'm not exaggerating.  The man is quite mad.  He no longer speaks of Gurdjieff or Ouspensky at all, and his &#34;teaching&#34; is incoherent mumblings about signs and symbols he sees everywhere.  I urge any prospective buyer of this book to spend a few minutes reading about the author and his cult on a blog easily located through a web search.  Self-remembering may be a wonderful tool (I think so), but there are many other books out there with the same message from people who aren't nuts, and even care about their disciples. This one arguably is worth the one penny being asked by third-party venders, although the shipping charge is debatable.	2004-07-29
US	52148563	R1JTRUX3YAB8AH	037575993X	713847288	Carry Me Across the Water: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Return to Form	After the major disappointment of For Gods and Planets, Canin again displays a mastery of his craft in Carry Me Across the Water.  What a pleasure to find a novel that can be comfortably read in a couple of days yet leaves a deep emotional impression.  I disagree with the reviewer who complained about the form, which uses flashbacks and cuts between various scenes in the protagonist's life; there's nothing confusing about it, and it works beautifully.  I do agree that Canin has brought to bear his skill as a short story writer in conveying the essence of a good novel without the tedium of endless descriptions and meandering plot lines.  For those looking for a complex interweaving of many well-developed characters, look elsewhere; this is the story of one man's life, in which all other characters are supporting, existing only through the lens of his aging eyes in order to help us understand how he feels as he approaches the end of his life, and why.  Those reviewers who found the man unsympathetic perhaps are just not as familiar with their own irritable side as they hopefully will be eventually.  I found the portrait very true to my experience.  Canin seems to do much better with older characters; his young people tend to be two-dimensional, but  he has a wonderful grasp of the subtleties of the minds of people much older than he is himself.  <br />After For Gods and Planets I wondered whether Canin was capable of writing a good novel.  As I finished the last page of this one, I said out loud to myself, &quot;A good book.&quot;	2004-05-16
US	52148563	R3V53XYFZFBC67	0964578247	429119209	The Prize is Eternity: Foundations of Inner Work in the Fourth Way	Books	1	8	12	N	N	Great if you're already in the cult, otherwise, beware	All of the reviewers of this book (except for yours truly), as well as both of the \\"editorial reviewers,\\" are (or, as in the case of Ms. Zannos, were) members of the Fellowship of Friends, the cult of which Mr. Haven had once been designated second in command by its founder, Robert Burton (no longer the case; he's been demoted).  Its approach to the Fourth Way is highly idiosyncratic at best, a caricature of an abusive \\"New Age cult\\" at worst.  Prospective purchasers would do well to do a little research on the Fellowship of Friends to determine whether they suppose a leader of such an organization is well qualified to be a spiritual guide.  (Also, consider whether you really think \\"eternity\\" is a \\"prize,\\" like a gimcrack in a Cracker Jack box.) Caveat emptor.	2004-01-06
US	52148563	R2FPA1HX4VCDT8	0312141130	611428864	Joint Custody with a Jerk: Raising a Child with an Uncooperative Ex	Books	2	195	199	N	N	If only . . .	If only the book really delivered on its title.  The number of people who've read this review suggests that there a lot of folks looking for a book that delivers what this title promises.  As other reviewers have pointed out, it has some useful snippets, and it can't hurt to try them out.  Go for it.  But for those of us with ex's that really are, um, uncooperative, it offers little help; most of the tips assume a level of maturity and responsibility that my ex, for one, certainly lacks.  The thought of actually taking the authors' core advice and telling my ex that her behavior makes me &#34;feel upset,&#34; and that I would like her to change it, would be humorous if it weren't so painful.  (In fact, it's more appropriate advice for an ongoing relationship that has some rough patches; if my ex were willing and/or able to respond positively to such requests, perhaps we wouldn't be exes.)  My impulse is to say that, if you've got an ex who is as cooperative as those described in this book, you're relatively lucky, and don't really need a book with such a provocative title.  Unfortunately, this may lead some to conclude that for those of us with truly difficult ex's -- those that really couldn't care less how we feel, let alone whether we find their behavior &#34;inconvenient,&#34; and who view any interaction as an opportunity to express bitterness and hostility -- there is no recourse.  On the positive side, just reading through the book may cause the reader to focus a little more on the importance of addressing his/her own attitudes and behavior, which is the most controllable element in the situation.  There needs to be much more discussion of how to deal with those who don't respond to firm and principled verbal messages, beyond &#34;if this doesn't work, maybe you need a lawyer or a therapist.&#34;	2004-01-06
US	52148563	R3TFPK75RRV7NT	0060988339	286737301	How to Manage Your Mother	Books	2	26	30	N	N	Shameless and Pitiful Exploitation of Celebrity Connections	I was embarrassed for the author, especially considering her profession; this is the work of a person with painfully obvious self-esteem issues. It's no coincidence that many of this book's reviews point out that the author (who evidently needed some help to write it) is the wife of actor and former Monty Python member John Cleese. (One can almost hear, in the background, the author whining \\"Hon-ey, how come you never help MY career?  I'm tired of just being a shrink!\\" And John anxiously responding \\"I'll talk to the publishers, sweetheart; don't worry, they'll love it.\\")  While the book isn't bad, it's quite superficial, and might not have been published had the author not filled it with vaguely relevant anecdotes about her (or her husband's) B-and C-list pals and their reminiscences about their mommys.  It's difficult to understand why an author of such a book would find it necessary (or even appropriate) to provide the full names of each of these folks, except to entice readers who can't get enough of any scrap of information about, say, Lauren Hutton, or who are fascinated to discover that actors have less-than-perfect relationships like everyone else. One can't help but wonder why the author, who would almost certainly never have had these clients without her husband's show-biz connections, feels the need to try to capitalize on them in this way as well.  In any event, there are many books that offer much more insight and practical advice on how to resolve some of the problems that often arise out of the mother-child relationship.	2003-12-16
US	52148563	R1N7NK52XUPFAM	0375706917	4435858	For Common Things: Irony, Trust and Commitment in America Today	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Worth Checking Out	A random sample of the other reviews lets you know the author's basic thesis, and that some readers have praised him as wise beyond his years while others have accused him of being superficial at best.  I lean towards the former.  Purdy has put his finger on a phenomenon that has far-reaching effects, and he's tried to suggest a better approach to living.  There may be little that is wholly original, but even the greatest writers of the genre -- such as Montaigne -- routinely packed their essays with references to their predecessors.  I sense that many of the more scathing reviews were motivated by sheer envy.  Purdy apparently had an idyllic childhood and went on to attend some of the best schools in the country.  Some suggest that these facts disqualify him from writing social commentary or philosophy, since he's presumably not had to spend years flipping burgers.  As someone who's flipped burgers and gone to good schools, I happen to disagree.  The value of the writing is in what the man says and how he says it, not whether he's young or old, rich or poor.  I found the writing articulate but a little slippery, in that Purdy often says a bit less than he intends to, but he still says a lot more than most.  Only  a person who hasn't learned much in life would presume to say that another person must not have suffered much on the basis of that other person's lifestyle.  But if Purdy has managed to learn enough to speak some potent truths -- which he has -- without having been raked through the coals of life, so much the better for him; after he's paid some more dues, he'll be that much wiser.  I look forward to For Common Things II.	2001-07-24
US	52148563	R3OBHO9RE6K15N	0312254997	934580598	The Ground Beneath Her Feet: A Novel	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Tiresome, Self-Indulgent, Pretentious Dud	This one helps us understand the difference between proficiency in language and mastery of writing, between mechanical wit and humor, between being a smartypants and being wise.  Rushdie definitely knows how to speak English, and he desperately wants us to know he knows.  (Is this part of the Indian Anglophilia to which he often refers in the novel?)  He is so enchanted by the sound of his own voice, and so impressed by his accumulated store of random facts, that he reminds us of a child who is so pleased with himself for having mastered tying his shoelaces that he can't stop accosting people on the street to display his prowess.  Or of the girl who always sat in the front row and constantly raised her hand urgently, begging for the opportunity to answer every question.  This novel has \\"Look at me! Look at me! Aren't I clever?\\" written all over it.    No, I'm not intimidated by long books, or by literary (or musical) allusions, or by experimental prose forms, but I'm bored to tears with big, fat books that got that way because the self-indulgent author has a bad case of verbal diarrhea and the editor doesn't dare tell him so.  Constantly rambling off on tangents that do nothing to advance the story or even entertain us, Rushdie takes perhaps two hundred pages to settle into making some attempt to tell us the story his sometime-narrator (that is, the character who is supposedly telling us the story but couldn't possibly have acquired any knowledge of most of it) keeps informing us he's going to tell us, after he tells us lots of stuff that we don't much care about.  By that time, we're more than ready for a great story, but Rushdie doesn't have a great story to tell, just a lot of lampooning of various types of people he evidently doesn't much like, salted with allusions to popular music that I guess are designed to let us know how much the author thinks he knows about the subject. And as many other reviewers have noted, it's painfully obvious to any fan of rock music--and I don't mean any fanatical fan, just anyone who grew up listening to it--that Rushdie knows very little about it.  Like your father may have sounded if he made an effort to relate to you by talking to you about music you like but he really doesn't, but wants to sound as though he knows what he's talking about.    There are some diverting minor characters in The Ground Beneath Her Feet, but the two major ones are bizarre amalgams of psychoses that Rushdie apparently imagines are typical of rock stars.  Neither Vina nor Ormus are recognizably human, let alone motivated by human impulses, making it impossible to care about what they do or what happens to them.      If you want to read a novel that combines fabulous use of the language with a story that you'll remember for the rest of your life, try Cormac McCarthy, or Mark Helprin's one good book, Soldier of the Great War.  I'm sure there are many others.  This one's a dud.	2001-07-17
US	52148563	REV0XTW1IQY1H	0671732501	607850645	The Fire from Within	Books	2	15	31	N	N	Oh, Please	Many of the readers of Castenada's books apparently aren't all that interested in viewing his books critically.  They like Castenada, feel he has valuable things to say in all of his books, and are more than happy to try to find meaning in them.  If you're one of these readers, no need to read further; enjoy this book.      My own view is different. I thought the original Castenada book(The Teachings of Don Juan) was, at very least, a masterful ruse, and perhaps exactly what it purported to be -- who knows.  The next two or three definitely had their moments.  Practical?  Maybe not, but still thought-provoking and at least entertaining.  But by the time The Fire From Within was written, the whole game was just too obvious.  It's a caricature.  The cagey old Yaqui speaks like a college-educated gentleman who's read too many Don Juan books.  Every chapter starts out with a sentence or two to set the scene before going into an impossibly detailed, word-for-word description of numbingly intricate theories of how to manipulate \\"emanations\\" and \\"assemblage points,\\" punctuated by the obligatory belly-laughs from Don Genaro and Don Juan at poor Carlos's expense, and the bizarre hallucinatory stuff to keep the dopers happy -- you know the formula.  I truly wonder if even Castaneda wrote it, rather than some ghost-writer or computer program.    That's not to say that such a work can't contain wisdom; it makes little difference whether the voice is Castaneda's, Don Juan's, or some hack's.  And there's some stuff in there, if you want to wring it out.  But why bother?  It's not nearly as entertaining a work of fiction as countless other books, and if you really want practical guidance, there's precious little of it here. But again, I suspect many readers are looking for the New Age equivalent of romance novels, and on that level, it may work.	2000-12-21
US	52148563	R2FHDNPCCSCW4	0486297012	310137207	A New Model of the Universe (Dover Occult)	Books	2	15	35	N	N	Remedial Ancient Wisdom	This contains some of Ouspenky's speculations on a variety of \\"spiritual\\" subjects. Problem is, while Ouspensky was a well-educated and intelligent man, and may well have been a great teacher, before he met Gurdjieff, he didn't know all that much about mysticism, and he knew it -- which is why he went looking for what he later found in Gurdjieff.  After he split with Gurdjieff, Ouspensky may have continued to offer a great deal to his students, but what he offered was his approach to awakening through the system he learned from Gurdjieff, not his own, unrelated musings on how the universe works.  The Fourth Way system can be life-changing, but Ouspensky's personal thoughts about Tarot, the number of dimensions that \\"really\\" exist (prove it, buddy), etc., are not of the same inspired level. The book may have been impressive when it was written decades ago, when Theosophy was all the rage, but in the context of what's available in the typical \\"spritual\\" bookstore (any bookstore, for that matter) today, it's very basic, and very incomplete. Not a \\"new\\" model at all, but an antique. Much better to read In Search of the Miraculous, which contains the essence of the teachings he learned from Gurdjieff.  But Ouspensky has his devoted followers who view his words as scripture, as these reviews reveal.	2000-12-21
US	52148563	R1K4E141AV2NQ5	0140195858	906672969	Life is Real Only Then, When 'I Am': All and Everything, Third Series (Compass)	Books	2	18	22	N	N	No, You Won't Find It Here	Back when the Third Series was hard to come by, people imagined --- based on rumor and hype, not the least of which from Gurdjieff himself -- that this volume would contain Gurdjieff's most significant teachings.  You know, the stuff that SERIOUS and ADVANCED students of esoterica, like you, were looking for.  The powerful methods that would enable you to do or be whatever it is you think you ought to do or be, other than what you already are (anything but that!)  Well, keep looking, because the Third Series is pretty tame.  No secrets.  No mind-blowing methods.  You won't be able to kill a yak at fifty paces after you read it.  You'll just be back looking for that one book that will save you the trouble of self-remembering, not expressing negative emotions, etc., etc.  Better to read Beelzebub's Tales that third time.  Yeah, that'll do it.	2000-11-23
US	52148563	R20XE5ON726NEF	0679761675	647444547	Martian Time-Slip	Books	2	2	10	N	N	Ho-Hum	Dick has a monumental reputation as a visionary that's well deserved, and I and many have enjoyed the movies based on his trippy stories.  But this novel is really nothing special.  A plodding story about some folks living on a Mars that is very much like, say, the Australian outback.  The spacey twist revolves around a character who can see through time and influence it, and the efforts of another to use that power for his own selfish interests.  Mildly diverting, but I can't understand how it would motivate another reviewer to run out and buy everything by the author.  But then, I've read several other of Dick's novels and I can't say that any of them has lived up to the hype.  He's definitely got an interesting outlook, but his writing is just average and frequently incoherent (at least to me).  Good luck.	2000-10-25
US	52148563	R7OUI8923ZN09	0156445085	738065609	In Search of the Miraculous (Harvest Book)	Books	5	277	304	N	N	The Single Best Book on the Gurdjieff Work	Having read just about everything written by or about Gurdjieff, Ouspensky, Collin, Orage, Nicoll, and countless disciples, spin-offs, Sufis, etc., etc., and having been drawn by them into spending years in a Gurdjieff \\"school,\\" and being familiar with the traditions on which the Gurdjieff approach was based, I take a lot of the \\"fourth way\\" material with a large grain of salt.  The core of the \\"work\\" is a powerful methodology, but no more so than, say, vipassana, zen, dzogchen or other solid, meditation-based tradition.  There is nothing about the fourth way that is any more \\"esoteric\\" than these other traditions (that's right, nothing).  The biggest difference is that Gurdjieff left behind a legacy of fraudulent teachers and cults, whereas there are many Buddhist and other groups that are reliable.  (Certainly, Buddhist and other groups, being made up of people, have their flaws, and there are things to be learned in some (not all!) Gurdjieff groups, but decades of hard-won experience allows me to say that the Gurdjieff tradition is peculiar in attracting power-hungry charlatans who exploit the \\"rascal sage\\" idea to gather suckers around themselves.  It happens in other traditions, but there, it tends to end in disgrace.  In fourth way groups, duping people seems to be a point of pride.) Even groups that are not necessarily exploitative or fraudulent tend to attract people who especially like the idea of being \\"esoteric,\\" to use a term Ouspensky used, but which was far more appropriate eighty years ago than it is today.  That is, they like to imagine they've contacted the \\"real\\" inner work--as opposed to those fools who imagine any other traditions can lead to awakening.  In other words, the ego-driven, cult mentality that turns useful information into its opposite. The \\"my fourth way group is more esoteric/Gurdjieffian/cooler than your fourth way group\\" dynamic is out of control.    Regardless, I strongly recommend In Search of the Miraculous.  It's the single best book on Gurdjieff's work ever written.  It's reasonably comprehensive on the important theories and methods.  It's clear--no Beelzebub's Talesian mumbo-jumbo.  It includes enough of Ouspensky's personal comments and experiences to make an entertaining story, but it isn't a self-indulgent book about the author (\\"and then he said this to me, and then I said that to him.\\")  I find Ouspensky's other works overly dry and intellectual, but this one is both fun and profound.  (And if you happen to buy a copy that has a bookmark in it from a purported Gurdjieff \\"school\\" -- toss the bookmark.  Trust me about that.)	2000-10-16
US	52148563	R2XKKW7Y3X4ERA	0140114335	126535850	The Lyre of Orpheus (Cornish Trilogy)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Fun, But The Weakest of the Trilogy	The Lyre of Orpheus continues the story of the characters introduced in  The Rebel Angels -- Maria and Arthur Cornish, Simon Darcourt, Clement  Hollier, etc.  I read the Cornish Trilogy straight through, and while I  very much enjoyed it, I thought Davies ran out of gas somewhere in the Lyre  of Orpheus.  What I liked so much about the first two books was Davies'  delving into the personalities of the characters; What's Bred in the Bone  deals more with Francis Cornish, but goes very deeply into the forces that  shaped his life.  Davies has great insight into human nature.  In The Lyre  of Orpheus, the characters' motivations are not well explored.  For  example, we learn that a character's wife has an affair that results in  pregnancy, and that the man, with apparently little ado, not only forgives  his wife and treats her with undiminished devotion, but also continues to  regard her lover as the dear friend he had been.  Well, that's great, but  uncommon, and Davies makes no attempt to explain this astounding level of  generosity other than to analogize it to the Arthurian legend (but that was  a legend).  Similarly, we learn that Simon Darcourt has taken something of  a new path in his life, but for motivation we are told little more than  that, after taking a walk in woods, he has decided to view his life  differently.  Instead of helping us to relate to these characters, Davies  spends a great deal of time educating us about how to produce an opera,  evidently a great love of his.  Opera fans will find this great fun, but it  doesn't make for a great story.  Finally, the analogizing to Arthurian  legend of the characters' lives that permeates the entire work as a  leitmotif becomes increasingly heavyhanded as time wears on, almost to the  point of self-parody.  In short, it's an entertaining read, but not up to  the level of the first two parts of the trilogy.	2000-09-07
US	52148563	R1RF00Y0YX6W5B	0140194738	859402931	Beelzebub's Tales to His Grandson: All and Everything, First Series (Compass)	Books	2	132	167	N	N	Don't Kid Yourself	I began my Fourth Way studies about thirty years ago, and read several dozen works by all of the principle Gurdjieff disciples and worked in an intense Fourth Way school for about seven years.  I have great respect for the system Gurdjieff presented, if not for every person and organization that claims to teach it.  Nevertheless, I differ with those who insist this is a fabulous treasure trove of spiritual wisdom.<br />  Gurdjieff was known for, among  other things, his cynical view of human nature, and his continual lampooning of humanity's self-delusion.  Ironically, the adulation with which some regard this book is as good an illustration as any of  Gurdjieff's view that people -- particularly \\"seekers\\" -- are  extremely gullible, and also that they will try to console themselves for having made a mistake by convincing others to make the same mistake. Beelzebub's Tales is very poorly written by someone who may well have been a great teacher, but had limited talent for writing.  Any practical wisdom it presents is buried in hundreds of pages of tedious verbiage.  Some will insist that if you haven't discovered that Gurdjieff wrote the entire work \\"consciously,\\" and that \\"every sentence was intentional,\\" and that it was all \\"encoded esoterica,\\" well, you just don't understand, since you're asleep.  This is self-delusion.  We may indeed be asleep (I'm certainly convinced of it), but that doesn't make Beelzebub's Tales a masterpiece, or even a worthwhile read.  There is little in the book that is worth the tremendous effort of unearthing it.  Like the Third Series, which, before it was widely  available, was naively assumed to contain The Answer (largely because Gurdieff himself hyped it in his previous writings), Beelzebub's Tales discloses nothing that cannot be found more clearly articulated in many other more recent expositions of various spiritual traditions.  It is the very inaccessibility of anything of value that seems to cause some to continue to applaud thebook and others to plunge into it zealously, assuming that the more apparently worthless it is, the more worthwhile it  must be.  It's the Emperor's New Clothes.  After you read Beelzebub's Tales, you may parade around (if only in your own mind) that you have read one of the great \\"esoteric\\" classics, from which you have gleaned some very profound knowledge.  If you glean the realization that your time may be much better spent than plowing through fat, badly-written books looking for encoded knowledge, perhaps the time will have been well spent.  None of this is meant to imply that studying the Gurdjieff work lacks value, but reading books, even by Gurdjieff, isn't what the work is all about.  It's just easier.  I'd suggest reading In Search of the Miraculous and maybe a couple of others of the basic canon, and if it grabs you, join a group of sincere folks who are trying to apply the concepts.  If you find yourself instead spending many hours poring through Beelzebub's Tales you may be trying to avoid the real work, rather than pursuing it. I leave it to you to decide the meaning of the fact that so many people have left irritable comments on this review, and whether such comments demonstrate the value of Beelzebub's Tales.	2000-08-30
US	52148563	R24D23PWILFHZV	0394716728	204557370	The Fourth Way: An Arrangement by Subject of Verbatim Extracts from the Records of Ouspensky's Meetings in London and New York, 1921-46	Books	2	60	71	N	N	For Fourth Way Completists And "Intellectuals"	The Fourth Way is a collection of questions and answers transcribed at meetings with Peter Ouspensky (or is it now PC to spell it  &#34;Uspenskii&#34;?), a teacher of the fourth way system presented by  Ouspensky's teacher, G.I. Gurdjieff.  There is great substance in the book,  and if one were able to distill it all, it may be that it contains  practically everything one might really need to know about awakening.  But  substance must be transmitted in a form that is palatable.  I  have always found the book unbearably tedious and  didactic.  Ouspensky was without doubt a sincere man, and he may well  have been a great teacher; his pupil Rodney Collin (who wrote some wonderful books himself) certainly thought so.  His writings (and I've read quite a lot of them, including  his papers at Yale's Sterling Library, which contain a few gems) also  reveal him to have been stuffy, pompous, and to my mind overly intellectual.  Reading The Fourth Way, one might imagine that awakening is not only a  terribly complex matter, but requires familiarity with a vast array of  concepts.  'Tain't so.  Partly because of his era, and perhaps because it  pleased him to imagine that he possessed information that was truly unique,  Ouspensky also labored under the illusion that the fourth way system was,  as he liked to call it, &#34;esoteric.&#34;  This is quaint, but what was  &#34;hidden knowledge&#34; to Westerners 75 years ago can now be found  in countless works in almost any bookstore, and is taught by genuine  teachers of Buddhism, Sufism, and other traditions.  One need not join a  fourth way cult led by some self-appointed Gurdjieff wannabe and get  humiliated and milked in order to awaken.  (Although, based on some of the reviews of this and other Gurdjieff-related works, the tradition of &#34;seekers&#34; imagining that they possess the One Truth and all others are pathetic, benighted souls is alive and well.)<br /><br />Regardless of the usefulness or  uniqueness of the methods, however, the book itself is turgid and one of  the most boring of its genre.  This does not make it any more  &#34;practical&#34; than a book that is interesting or inspiring; it  simply makes it more boring. It's like being given unnecessarily unpleasant  medicine by a musty old aunt who imagines that she knows all anyone could  possibly know about health care.  Now Ouspensky's In Search of the  Miraculous is a different story altogether.  It not only contains most of  the essential material, but presents it in a way that holds the reader's  interest.  That one's a classic, and strongly recommended.r, the book itself is turgid and one of  the most boring of its genre.  This does not make it any more  &#34;practical&#34; than a book that is interesting or inspiring; it  simply makes it more boring. It's like being given unnecessarily unpleasant  medicine by a musty old aunt who imagines that she knows all anyone could  possibly know about health care.  Now Ouspensky's In Search of the  Miraculous is a different story altogether.  It not only contains most of  the essential material, but presents it in a way that holds the reader's  interest.  That one's a classic, and strongly recommended.	2000-08-17
US	52148563	R157O50HD9GFRH	0156001942	79109568	Winter's Tale	Books	2	5	11	N	N	&quot;Breathtaking&quot; But Insubstantial	Based on Soldier of the Great War, Memoir From Ant-Proof Case, and half of Winter's Tale, I find Helprin to combine, in various proportions, the following: fabulous literary style and an almost unbelievable mastery of  the English language; an acute emotional sensitivity and intense  romanticism; a penchant for inserting ridiculous, clownish characters into  his plots just for the hell of it; and a sweeping, epic view of life.           In Soldier of the Great War, these are combined in precisely the right  proportions, and create a true masterpiece -- one of the very finest novels  of our time.  It's long, but you wish it would never end.  In Memoir From  Ant-Proof Case, Helprin goes heavy on the slapstick; if you enjoy the  shtick, you'll like the book, and if not, you'll find it slight.    In  Winter's Tale, Helprin's romanticism gets the better of him, and unless you  are heavily into dreamy fantasy you won't be able to justify the book's  girth.  After a couple of hundred pages that became ever more treacly, I  gave up in disgust.     Winter's Tale begins with a mystical aura that  causes the reader to assume that the novel is intended to be essentially  realistic, but with a touch of charming whimsy.  Helprin slowly discards  any pretense of realism until we are left with an exaggerated,  eye-rollingly tedious parody of a fairy tale.  The characters lose any  relation to humanity and become caricatures, and the plot becomes  self-consciously fantastic and predictable at the same time.  Helprin,  seemingly in love with sound of his own voice, parades one lovely and  precious image after another before our eyes, like magical candy, but this  does not make a novel so much as a linguistic exercise.       I'd hate to  think that Helprin, whose literary gifts are so enormous, had but one great  book in him.  But I'm begining to think so.	2000-06-19
US	52148563	R322MPRJ0WKO7P	0151000972	939633503	Memoir from Antproof Case	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Very fine writing, frivolous plot	Mark Helprin is one of the most gifted writers in the English language.  If you don't believe it, read A Soldier of the Great War, one of the most wonderful novels in many years.  Ant-Proof Case displays Helprin's  incredible use of language, but it's in the service of story that is merely  diverting, rather than profound, as in Soldier.  The protagonist's account  of his life veers between acute sensitivity and buffoonery.  There are  images that will stay with you, perhaps for a long time, such as his  exaggerated contempt for coffee and his descriptions of dogfights in the  Second World War, but the truly insightful observations on life that are  sprinkled throughout the work tend to get overshadowed by the clownishness.   It's almost as if Helprin was embarrassed by his emotional refinement and  wanted to laugh his way out of it.  In Soldier of the Great War, it is his  unabashed embrace of that sensitivity that makes the book a masterpiece.	2000-05-31
US	52148563	R3N6BVHVDH7QDF	0380715899	47509404	A Soldier of the Great War	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Stunning	Are you the type of reader that wants to know what the book is about and why the reviewer thinks it's so great and what the author's style is like before you will consider reading it?  If so, I don't blame you.  Check out  some of the other reviews for Soldier of the Great War.  Are you willing to  just go out and buy a book because someone you never met and whose opinion  you have no reason to trust tells you that this is one of the most  beautifully written, most engrossing, most memorable books you will ever  read?  That, after you read this book, you will go around pressing it into  people's hands like an Ancient Mariner, saying &quot;Read this!  Just read  it!&quot;  Well, are you?  Then read it.  Just read it.	2000-05-24
US	52148563	R2SEOAFAVIWMMV	0449245489	437546793	Rabbit is Rich	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Wonderful writing that'll make you squirm	No question about it:  Updike knows how to do middle-aged, middle-American angst as well or better than any other writer.  His Rabbit Angstrom grieves for his lost youth and tries to hold on to it while he settles into middle  age as into a hot bath.  Rabbit is so self-centered, so unable to act  appropriately despite his best intentions, so obsessed with sex, so crass  that we have no trouble distancing ourselves from him, but in our heart of  hearts we know we are not much different -- and that's Updike's genius.   His characters are at the same time archetypal and familiar.  If you have  entered middle age, you'll shudder in recognition; if you haven't yet,  here's a taste of Things To Come.  (And if you like this novel, try Joseph  Heller's Something Happened for a different, similarly brilliant, take on  this phase of life.)	2000-04-04
US	52148563	R1TUKZLWDTH2ZO	0449912124	758871425	S.: A Novel	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Fun, Well-Written, But Spiteful	I was very impressed by Updike's ability to create characters that are wholly believable, and to craft a story that is hard to put down -- I read this in a couple of days, and enjoyed it.  The protagonist, Sarah, sounds  very much like any number of people I've met, down to the fine details -- a  difficult stunt to sustain over the length of a novel that is essentially  her dictation.  And, to be sure, the book is funny, as many have claimed.   It is also rather mean spirited, however.     Sarah leaves her husband for a  \\"spiritual\\" commune or ashram, which Updike modeled on the one  established in the 70's by Bhagavan Shri Rajneesh in Oregon.  Having lived  in a community that bears much similarity to the one portrayed, I can  vouche for the accuracy (greatly exaggerated, of course) of the likeness.   But although my own experience was no less disappointing than Sarah's, I  would have liked to have thought that a writer of Updike's ability and  insight would not stoop to getting the usual belly laughs at the expense of  all those who have tried to find spiritual growth through Eastern  traditions.  He seems to have steeped himself deeply in the language and  philosophy of Buddhism and Hinduism, but only to lampoon those who are  drawn to them.  His portrayal is clever, and certainly captures the worst  aspects of such endeavors, but it veers towards the most cynical view  imaginable -- that those who pursue such traditions and lifestyles are  viciously greedy, self-indulgent frauds, and those who steer clear of them  to pursue the stock market or whatever are far wiser souls.  If you want to  wallow in that perspective, this book's for you.      Updike's portrayal of  Sarah herself is similarly tainted.  She is ultimately revealed as selfish,  petty, and grotesquely hypocritical, using her \\"feminism\\" as a  means to express all her worst qualities.  Of course, there's no reason not  to have such a character in a novel, but I got the impression that this was  Updike's view, if not of all women, than at least of women of a privileged  background, or women who leave their husbands but aren't willing to  impoverish themselves in the process, or who look for salvation in offbeat  ways.  (And I'm not any of the above.)    In short, S. is a cheap shot at  feminism and all things \\"new age,\\" but an entertaining one.	2000-03-21
US	52148563	R2FA75OLRTLSD6	0679600841	748295604	War and Peace (Modern Library)	Books	5	250	261	N	N	Yes, It's Worth the Trouble	Although my blind urge to read the Great Classics has (thankfully) faded somewhat over the years in favor of reading whatever I damn please, I finally decided it was time to give War and Peace a try.  After all, how  can anyone who enjoys novels resist the lure of &quot;the greatest novel of  all time&quot;? And Tolstoy himself was an unusually interesting man -- not  a screwed-up genius but one who seemed to eventually figure it all out.  It  took me maybe a hundred pages to get into the rhythm of the book and figure  out who all those characters with multisyllabic Russian names were. After  that, it was totally engrossing and surprisingly easy reading.  There's no  point giving you a book report on what happens -- you're supposed to read  it yourself -- but I do disagree with some of the other reviewers who  didn't care for the sections describing Tolstoy's philosophy of history.  I  found those sections (a very small proportion of the book) fascinating,  albeit a change of pace.  This is part of what makes the book great.  War  and Peace is not just a story of what happens to a bunch of made-up people,  but a major work of art expressing the wisdom of a great man.	1999-08-25
US	52148563	R2BXPOSJ0S3IRS	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Big Deal	Beloved gets my nomination for the most overpraised work of literature in recent years.  P.C. or not, I question whether the work would have received a fraction of the accolades had it not been written by an otherwise very  talented African-American woman, but admit it: Beloved is ponderous and  rather dull.  One can sympathize intensely with the suffering of the type  of people portrayed without agreeing that the book is particularly  entertaining.  A must-read only for those who feel they &quot;must.&quot;	1999-08-18
US	52148563	R2ZROUN5ZEKS0	0679423907	607561387	Cities of the Plain: A Novel (Border Trilogy, Vol. 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Disappointing, But Only By Comparison	This was the most anticipated book on my list for quite a while.  I consider All The Pretty Horses to be perhaps the finest novel I've read, and The Crossing profound, if a little turgid.  Cities of the Plain is also  incredibly well written, and I'd still read McCarthy's next book before any  other, but there's no new ground here, stylistically or emotionally.   Unlike some of the commentators who've griped that the Trilogy books aren't  particularly realistic portrayals of cowboy life, I never expected them to  be, but there's something almost comical about a knife-fighting pimp  expressing his philosophy of life -- as articulately as only Cormac  McCarthy can -- as he slices up Our Hero, whose suicidal urge is a little  hard to fathom even if we knew he was a romantic.  The book is certainly  worth reading, but I hope no one starts the Trilogy with it.	1999-08-05
US	52148563	R1WSLLMA9WJHA6	0679641041	53277980	Blood Meridian: Or the Evening Redness in the West (Modern Library (Hardcover))	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Horrifyingly Beautiful	McCarthy certainly writes like no one else, and in my view, can write more beautifully than anyone else when he wants to.  Although I enjoyed The Road, I didn't feel his skills were on full display; same for No Country For Old Men.  Both are written in a simpler, more direct style, with less description and easier vocabulary.  They are stories.  But if you liked the style of All The Pretty Horses--a true masterpiece, I thought--or The Crossing, you'll appreciate the style he employs in Blood Meridian.  Riveting passages of vivid, almost surreal beauty.  If you fancy yourself a writer, you may read these pages and just throw up your hands--we will never approach this level.    All that being said, there's one big difference between All The Pretty Horses and Blood Meridian.  The former is not only beautifully written, but notwithstanding several very memorable scenes of graphic violence, leaves an impression of intense romanticism. Not so Blood Meridian. Most, if not all, of McCarthy's novels involve violence--we think of the protagonist in No Country being chased by a homicidal psychopath with an air gun, or cannibalism in The Road--but this is easily the most unremittingly violent and dark novel I've ever read.  Moreover, unlike All The Pretty Horses, for example, in which there are characters with honor and nobility--some who make a point of it--everyone in Blood Meridian is bloodthirsty.      Believe me, I'm not the least bit squeamish or prudish, I don't mind violence, and I don't demand that characters in books be \\"good\\"--not at all--but this is an extreme case.  I have to say, after a couple of hundred fascinating pages, I was beginning to feel almost queasy. I know, this sounds almost precious, as though I like reading Victorian morality tales and playing badminton, but I've never had an experience quite like this--an extraordinarily well-written book that overwhelms with amorality.  Not that I was tempted to stop reading--oh, no, it's gripping, alright--or regretted reading it.  It's great, but it's a dark journey.	1999-08-05
US	52148563	R1YNDKXWH4VNBF	0876855966	46229783	Hot Water Music	Books	3	17	24	N	N	Viva Bukowski But This Isn't The Good Stuff	My shelf of Bukowski's poetry and prose is testament to the tremendous pleasure I've taken over the last twenty-five years reading his work.  He's unique, and although at first he may strike you as a guilty pleasure at  best, he's profound.  He's also detested by some -- especially women who  consider him misogynistic.  Decide for yourself, but don't judge him by  this book, which is about as close to hack work as he's come -- although  Bukowski's hack work beats a lots of others' best.  Try Women, The Most  Beautiful Woman in Town, or Mockingbird Wish Me Luck.	1999-07-02
US	52148563	R1VGJQWAG6QUKS	0871137240	281626184	The Road Home	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Sloooowww Going	I'm a very big fan of Jim Harrison's fiction, having read and thoroughly enjoyed almost everything he's written.  Hearing he'd come out with a sequel of sorts to Dalva, which made the hairs stand on up on the back of  my neck, I couldn't wait.  Oh, how disappointing.  Slogging through page  after page after page of rehash of the same rather limited tale, seen  through the eyes of way-too-similar members of the same inbred (literally)  group of self-indulgent, over-literary Lakotaphiles was like trying to  stuff down a third -- no, fourth -- bowl of oatmeal.  In Dalva, I read on  eagerly, wondering where he was going.  In The Road Home, there's nowhere  to go, since we know the story.  This is no Rashomon, in which each view  presents a distinctly different piece of the puzzle.  It's more like  different views of a simple cube.  Lord, I hope Jim hasn't run out of gas,  but I couldn't help wondering.  I kept having literary deja vu -- did he  use this same phrase in Dalva, or did I just imagine it?  Read Julip or  Legends of the Fall.	1999-03-24
US	52148563	R1IJ5E1TOXWBC0	0394574745	270121541	All the Pretty Horses	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Read it.	If you take a look at the reviews for this book, you'll notice several by those who found it &quot;aggrivating&quot; [sic].  If you think you may find it &quot;aggrivating&quot; to read some long sentences and Spanish  phrases, and might consider poetic use of language pretentious, then just  skip All The Pretty Horses.  If, on the other hand, you think you might be  able to deal with artful writing, get to your local library or bookstore,  pick up a copy, and read one magical, beautiful, memorable, and awesomely  well-written novel.  John Grady -- and McCarthy's prose -- will haunt you  forever.	1998-11-19
