US	52140658	R1VJOA0G6UKMP	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Accessing the unfamiliar.	Arthur Golden opens the door to the sophisticated yet elusive underworld that is the life of the geisha.  The novel is written with eloquence that following the progression of the life of the main character, Sayuri, was a thrill in itself.  Sayuri perceives the world and describes her feelings and reactions to people and events around her as if she was possessed by the spirits of the natural world.  There are many allusions and references to events in the realm of nature that many of us may imagine but in reality are barely perceptible.  Thanks to her physical attributes that met the stringent requirements for an apprentice in the competitive geisha society of pre-war Kyoto, she was literally uprooted from her family and forced to live by Gion's rules, or else...  One can only wonder what emotional pain lingers in the hearts and minds of many of these women who have taken this path not by choice, despite the image they project of a highly sophisticated and cultured entertainer, almost symbolic of the pinnacle of Japan's cultural evolution over the centuries.	2005-04-14
US	52140658	R3MLRT7230ADUA	014010870X	944370212	Life and Death in Shanghai	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The iron will to survive in a horrendous moment of history.	Growing up in the Philippines in the 1970s, we were taught in school about references to mainland China as \\"Communist China\\", \\"Red China\\", and \\"The Sleeping Giant\\", but I do not recall learning about the Cultural Revolution, Mao's red book, and the pervasive hunt and pursuit of counterrevolutionaries and capitalist roaders by the Red Guards.  I do, however, recall President Marcos and his wife making slow diplomatic inroads to Mao Zedong and his formidable regime.  The recognition of China by the UN, Nixon's early 1970s visit, Zhou En Lai's, then later Mao's death, and the news about the Gang of Four slowly peeled away layers of seclusion and gradually brought images of life in China to the outside world, including its nearest neighbors.<br />The Cultural Revolution really hit hard on people like Nien Cheng, who, having worked for Shell Corporation, having known many professional contacts who were foreigners, and having lived a comfortable and privileged life in Shanghai, was accused of being a spy and a Kuomintang loyalist, among other things.  It was hard to put the book down from the start---Nien Cheng first writes about the \\"calm before the storm\\", political upheavals are about to change the life of every Chinese person, more so with people like her and her friends who are educated and well-respected and recognized in their professions.  Soon, she becomes the next target of the Red Guards, her house is nearly defiled, and treasures are destroyed or taken away from her.  Nien Cheng's will to survive and last whatever time she was supposed to serve for the crimes that she never did  was only driven by her hope to be reunited with her daughter.  Anyone would have lost hope if he or she were put in Nien Cheng's position.  Nien Cheng, with an exceptional character molded by education, moral upbringing, and professional experience, maintained her mental and emotional equilibrium by mentally reciting ancient poems, thinking positive thoughts, reading and rereading Mao's books, and ingesting every bit of news that allowed her to make a coherent picture of the goings-on in the complex Maoist government.  The passage of seasons foretold changes in the political situation that might bring her close to freedom, reunion with her daughter, and reparation by her wrongdoers.  Despite her day-to-day travails in prison---when the next interrogation was, how long, if it was going to help her at all, if she was going to miss a meal, how they were going to coerce her to confess, how serious her sickness was---the reader is comforted by occasional fast-forward references to the future when Nien Cheng is a free person.  The road from freedom to rehabilitation took almost just as long as her detention, but as the reader who sympathized with the author, I was deeply moved by the end of the book.<br />Nien Cheng spent two weeks on a mountain retreat outside Hangzhou before she left Shanghai for good and ultimately went to the United States.  It was all for the best for her to leave her native country, yet her love of China was unquestionable.  Considering what she had gone through, to move on and out of the country that brought her so much pain was the only way for her own personal redemption.  I salute Nien Cheng for her eloquent personal testimony to the horrors of the Cultural Revolution and for giving her readers a look into yet another example of fortitude and character amidst adversity.ao's books, and ingesting every bit of news that allowed her to make a coherent picture of the goings-on in the complex Maoist government.  The passage of seasons foretold changes in the political situation that might bring her close to freedom, reunion with her daughter, and reparation by her wrongdoers.  Despite her day-to-day travails in prison---when the next interrogation was, how long, if it was going to help her at all, if she was going to miss a meal, how they were going to coerce her to confess, how serious her sickness was---the reader is comforted by occasional fast-forward references to the future when Nien Cheng is a free person.   The road from freedom to rehabilitation took almost just as long as her detention, but as the reader who sympathized with the author, I was deeply moved by the end of the book.<br />Nien Cheng spent two weeks on a mountain retreat outside Hangzhou before she left Shanghai for good and ultimately went to the United States.  It was all for the best for her to leave her native country, yet her love of China was unquestionable.  Considering what she had gone through, to move on and out of the country that brought her so much pain was the only way for her own personal redemption.  I salute Nien Cheng for her eloquent personal testimony to the horrors of the Cultural Revolution and for giving her readers a look into yet another example of fortitude and character amidst adversity.	2003-11-22
US	52140658	RCN2CUOPJVK1O	0195163389	128986086	The Way of the Cell: Molecules, Organisms, and the Order of Life	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Eloquent tribute to the mystique of Biology.	The way of the cell is the way of life, for the cell is the structural unit of all living organisms on Earth.  And Franklin Harold comes close to defining life in a manner that is all-encompassing, concise, and eloquent.  Any person who has taken a Biology class should not have a problem with the book, although many times the author uses terminology that does not get defined at the same time, in which case, the reader has to have a good background in Cell Biology or has to browse the glossary.<br />Harold's eloquence is remarkable.  Consider the following quotes:<br />1.  &quot;Over time functional systems would have &quot;crystallized&quot; into successful configurations, and therefore become less receptive to the import of novelty...&quot;<br />2.  &quot;The genetic free-trade zone fragmented into protected enclaves, not abruptly but gradually on a time-scale of millions of years...&quot;<br />3.  &quot;...leaving a huge lacuna in any account of cell evolution, but fostering a crop of stimulating conjectures.&quot;<br />4.  &quot;Molecular phylogenists, who draw their opinions from the bedrock of gene sequences, view the matter somewhat differently but still in a glass, darkly.&quot;<br />5.  &quot;The better part of valor may be to sit tight and await the tide of new data, but only dullards are proof against the temptations of myth-making.&quot;<br />6.  &quot;There is a fine air of whimsy, about those imaginative tales ...They also stop insouciantly around patches of quicksand, such as what brought about early cellular fusions that are not permitted to contemporary prokaryotes...&quot;<br />7.  &quot;The profusion that came after is built like a fugue upon the deep theme of eukaryotic order.&quot;<br />8.  &quot;On the outer banks of science, one often suspects that the believer is happy while the doubter is wise; and yet, too critical a spirit is apt to overlook the genuine contribution that complexity studies have already made.&quot;<br />9.  &quot;The rocky path from RNA replicators to DNA genes and from catalytic RNA to protein enzymes calls for stout boots and a good head for heights.&quot;<br />This makes for engrossing reading, as the mystique of Biology can be overlooked when the text is dry and scholarly.  There is delight, however, in reading Harold, similar to what the reader can get from Stephen Jay Gould, Richard Dawkins, and Stuart Kauffman, to name a few.  I can imagine Harold entertaining his audience in a seminar with his penchant for combining words elegantly.<br />Today I was in a seminar where a famous molecular biologist (also a cancer biologist) admitted to a sabotage against the reductionist agenda as more scientists begin to realize that life processes cannot be just explained by the panoply of bioorganic molecules, proteins especially, and the genes that encode them.  Harold fiercely stresses that DNA, for all the glorification that it deserves, is not all there is.  New properties emerge as biological molecules find themselves in different cellular compartments and environments, at different stages in the development of the organism, and as the organisms themselves explore all possibilities of trading and swapping genes, and even fusing their entire bodies in one.  Read this book, and be enveloped by the biological mystique!licators to DNA genes and from catalytic RNA to protein enzymes calls for stout boots and a good head for heights.&quot;<br />This makes for engrossing reading, as the mystique of Biology can be overlooked when the text is dry and scholarly.  There is delight, however, in reading Harold, similar to what the reader can get from Stephen Jay Gould, Richard Dawkins, and Stuart Kauffman, to name a few.  I can imagine Harold entertaining his audience in a seminar with his penchant for combining words elegantly.<br />Today I was in a seminar where a famous molecular biologist (also a cancer biologist) admitted to a sabotage against the reductionist agenda as more scientists begin to realize that life processes cannot be just explained by the panoply of bioorganic molecules, proteins especially, and the genes that encode them.  Harold fiercely stresses that DNA, for all the glorification that it deserves, is not all there is.  New properties emerge as biological molecules find themselves in different cellular compartments and environments, at different stages in the development of the organism, and as the organisms themselves explore all possibilities of trading and swapping genes, and even fusing their entire bodies in one.  Read this book, and be enveloped by the biological mystique!	2003-10-25
US	52140658	R1CB8666J7IRH6	0449910857	97513865	The Pillars of Hercules: A Grand Tour of the Mediterranean	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Mediterranean as microcosm minus Libya and Algeria.	Theroux travel books make good reading but don't look to this guy for an upbeat and overwhelmingly positive outlook on the places, the people, and circumstances that he run into during his expeditions!<br />Some memorable parts: detailed descriptions of Corsica, the good life in Italy versus its neighbors across the Adriatic, an unexpectedly beautiful part of the Albanian coast as well as in Syria, descriptions of children who are scarred by war, making friends in the Turkish ship from Istanbul to Alexandria and Israel, his evening arrival in Istanbul, his praise of high culture and good cuisine in Israel, recalling Durrell's version of Alexandria and Theroux's own experience (which makes some of the best reading in this book), his encounter with Paul Bowles in Tangier, a near brush with maritime disaster from a storm----I can go on and on.<br />Disappointments include brief stops in famous places like Venice, a dislike for Menton, and a negative view of the war-torn Dalmatian coast (no positive description whatsoever of this famous coast).  A thoroughly negative perspective on Albania can be disturbing but is nonetheless expected from Theroux.<br />Overall, Theroux is one to read when you have the feeling that you may never get to go to some of these places and have chance encounters with interesting lives.  In short, a good dose of vicarious travel experiences!	2003-10-05
US	52140658	RZMLHRCO9JJHI	0520239040	389290585	Ahead of the Curve: David Baltimore's Life in Science	Books	5	3	3	N	N	When Baltimore speaks, everyone listens.	I truly enjoyed reading this book on the impressive scientific accomplishments of David Baltimore.  I remember being in a relatively informal seminar at MIT when he gave a short introduction to the science that was to be presented that evening.  His presence commanded awe and respect---almost always expected from someone with outstanding credentials.<br />The book is good not just for examining Baltimore's exponential rise to scientific stardom but also for getting a seminal idea on the development of the fields of virology, molecular biology, and immunology.  Through his work, Baltimore became a unifying force between these seemingly disparate sciences.  The author also writes clearly about the political baggage that comes with having such a high profile in biology.	2003-10-05
US	52140658	R24DXI4WFBYAVF	0345409086	941823407	California Fault	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Searching for unity in a divisive state.	The fear, fatalism, and futility that earthquakes inspire in Californians may be the one true element that binds them all despite their political, sociocultural and economic and, may I add, hydrological divisiveness.  Still, earthquakes may not necessarily factor in the psyche of people who live a comfortable distance from the state's many faults or for people who do not think they should be affected at all.  The book probably works out fine for readers who have not been to California or who are curious about earthquakes and the alleged capabilities of some people to make predictions sans scientific instruments.<br />The strongest message that I got from the book is this:  Just as the beauty of California belies the terror that its geologic instability can bring about, the popularity of the state as a favorite destination belies the sad realities that come with unstoppable population growth: the lack of rootedness and an appreciation for history, the ever-increasing isolationism of gated communities and housing developments, and the homogenization of suburban living, shopping, and other recreational diversions.  The description of teenage ennui in privileged Saratoga, the suburban anonymity of Cupertino in Santa Clara Valley and Palmdale in Antelope Valley, and the increasing hazards of spending a weekend at the San Gabriel Mountains were particularly telling.<br />Earthquakes may cause people not to move to, or to move out of, California, but the big challenge for Californians is to balance a viable economy with preserving what is left of this gorgeous state.  The author lamented the lack of community in places that have just sprouted from what once was rangeland or farmland.  Will the sense of community improve when immigrant communities are more established?  The children of immigrants and transplants will have to understand the history of this vast state and listen to the voices of reason (voiced out by its eccentrics? bohemians? environmentalists?) in order to come up with a solution to preserve the attributes that make California great.come up with a solution to preserve the attributes that make California great.	2003-09-20
US	52140658	R1ZC59DAWHFKP	1558216847	782333026	The Long Walk: The True Story of a Trek to Freedom	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Whew!	Given my reading speed, this was one of those rare books that I started and finished in less than a week.  Oftentimes, I wondered to myself how much of this was actually true.  If the author did not have the chance to transcribe his memories into writing until decades later, it is amazing how the story was told to the last detail.  Even the conversations and thoughts, perhaps vaguely remembered, seemed believable.  The writing itself, however, was well done that I could dwell in the author's experiences and allow myself to imagine the far reaches of his and his companions' motivation to survive and the limits of their endurance, both physical and emotional.<br />The geography of their &quot;long walk&quot; was all the more remarkable considering there was not really any better alternative.  If they veered a little more to the southwest, they could have traversed the Altai Mountains, the Tien Shan, and the Taklamakan desert, plus some of the other formidable ranges of Central Asia that survival might be even less likely.  Navigating by the rising and setting of the sun and the instinct for survival were their means of accomplishing their goal.<br />Although the book ended abruptly, I would still give the author credit for some fine points.  For example, the sighting of two mysterious figures in the Himalayan foothills was written in a cautious manner and was in no way sensational (mention of the abominable snowman was saved to the end of that particular episode).  The memory of the sense of scale and landmarks that foretold the near accomplishment of their goal, such as the first mountain range that marked the beginning of the Kunlun mountains and the last mountain range that marked the end of the Himalayas, was telling.  The almost limitless hospitality accorded to them by the nomads and the western Chinese/Tibetans was very touching.  Not to mention the sense of loss over three of his companions.<br />Of course, there were also the harrowing memories of his imprisonment, his trials, and his trans-Siberian trip by train and by foot to oblivion.  I could not help wondering which would have been the lesser of two evils: to stay in gulag hell or to escape to nowhereland.  The author's will to survive won out.<br /><br />If you want to read someone's memoirs of a geography that covered the breadth from northern forests to deserts to mountain ranges, from bitter cold to searing heat--in the throes of survival--this is it.risonment, his trials, and his trans-Siberian trip by train and by foot to oblivion.  I could not help wondering which would have been the lesser of two evils: to stay in gulag hell or to escape to nowhereland.  The author's will to survive won out.<BR>  <BR>If you want to read someone's memoirs of a geography that covered the breadth from northern forests to deserts to mountain ranges, from bitter cold to searing heat--in the throes of survival--this is it.	2003-07-17
US	52140658	R3BN9RC2PAU19V	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	4	4	7	N	N	More down-to-earth but just as critical as Paul Theroux.	Hit the road with Bryson and you can never be at a loss for things to complain about, to make fun of, and sometimes to take seriously.  Here I am reading this in 2003 and I find many things a little outdated but informative and entertaining nonetheless.  For example, Bryson travels to Yellowstone National Park less than a year before it was hit by its most ferocious fire in recent history (1988).  He tunes in to Jimmy Swaggart feeling remorse for his transgressions with tears endlessly rolling down his cheeks.<br />Bryson can get a little annoying at times when you think he is most probably just making up names of people and places.  Making fun of people's accents can be tiresome at times.  Just to keep his reader engrossed, he imbues his narrative with digressions about his family, his relatives, and his fantasies, which is another way of emphasizing how tedious driving across large swaths of land in some parts of the country can be.  The change of attitude from detesting his home state to finding it as the best place it can be at the end of his road trip was comforting.<br />As a traveler, Bryson is hard to categorize.  He is definitely not a typical tourist as he detests tourist traps, theme parks, and overpriced historical and quasi-historical landmarks.  He does not seem to be an &quot;outdoorsy&quot; person, for even if he makes diversions to national parks, as opposed to passing by and not stopping, there is hardly any mention of day hikes.  This, however, can be explained by the off-season timing of his trips to most of the national parks, especially in the West.  He revels in taking side roads and byways to check out both natural and historical destinations, and does not mind pushing more miles (40-70 miles) just to find a reasonable place to stay, to dine, or to have a big breakfast.  His sense of place is strong, perhaps owing to what he referred to as the Midwesterner's bent for knowing their geographical directions given the topographical monotony of their region.<br />A map of the 48 states, or a composite showing his fall trip to the eastern half and his spring trip to the western half of the country would have been helpful in guiding people through his personal road trip.<br />I am partial to the western part of the United States in terms of  desirable travel destinations, and I did look forward to the beginning of his western journey starting with Colorado and New Mexico.  I was therefore offended by his remark on the profusion of Spanish place names, where an attitude smacked of ugly Americanism, a trait that did not seem to have been diluted after two decades of living in Britain.  Here's an excerpt from page 272: &quot;...so that every place in the Southwest is called San this or Santa that.  Driving across the Southwest is like an 800-mile religious procession.  The worst name on the whole continent is the Sangre de Cristo Mountains...have you ever heard of a more inane name for any geographical feature?&quot;  I guess it takes an upbringing in a Spanish-infused culture to gain an appreciation for Spanish nomenclature.  If anything, the names are melodious, it not vividly descriptive.  What to say of &quot;Sierra Nevada&quot; (snowy mountains)?  Or &quot;La Sal Mountains&quot; (salt mountains) in southeastern Utah?  Bryson would have thought that ridiculous, when the Spanish explorers, in the middle of red-rock desert, thought they were seeing salt instead of snow on the mountain crests!  &quot;Sangre de Cristo&quot; (blood of Christ) is a powerful description for the color of the mountains at dusk.  Is the inaneness, according to our dear author, because of the morbid nature of the description???  These Spanish names are beautiful, and they testify to the permanent hold Spanish exploration has on this huge geographical area of the country.<br />The names given by the Spanish, in my opinion, are more imaginative and descriptive than some of the English names such as &quot;Collegiate Peaks&quot; (Colorado),&quot;Green Mountains&quot; (Vermont), &quot;White Mountains&quot; (New Hampshire, California, and Arizona), &quot;Blue Ridge&quot; and &quot;Smoky Mountains&quot;., &quot;Green Mountains&quot; (Vermont), &quot;White Mountains&quot; (New Hampshire, California, and Arizona), &quot;Blue Ridge&quot; and &quot;Smoky Mountains&quot;.	2003-06-21
US	52140658	R3S9480VGVWFGE	0192862081	760074700	The Art of Genes: How Organisms Make Themselves	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Developmental biology in a new light.	Perhaps not the first time, but certainly one of the most eloquent and thought-provoking exposition of the wonderfully complex subject of biological development. The author first seems to invoke a parallel relationship of development and creativity as yin and yang, but finishes off the book with an intriguing explanation that human creativity is itself a byproduct, consequence, or continuum of development.<br />The Biology undergrad or grad student may have grasped the fundamentals of developmental biology from \\"Molecular Biology of the Cell\\" (Alberts, Watson, et al), \\"Developmental Biology\\" (Gilbert), or \\"Genes, Embryos, and Evolution\\" (Gerhart and Kirschner).  Enrico Coen's book, however, certainly provides a fresh outlook of plant and animal development rich with comparisons to artistic creativity, hidden colors, scents and sensitivities, interpretations, elaborations, and refinements.  This outlook also raises the question of whether genes that dictate development can be compared to instruction manuals or artists painting their canvas---in the case of development, the instruction and execution are inseparable, and the genes are affected by the organisms they produce in a similar way that the artist responds to his/her own creation.<br />Anyone with a molecular biology background can worry less about the details of gene regulation, differential gene expression, and protein-DNA and protein-protein interactions.  By focusing instead on metaphors or analogies in art and creativity, delving in Dr. Coen's thoughts becomes an enjoyable exercise in imagination. On the other hand, readers who need more grounding in basic molecular biology may find the analogies daunting, but Dr. Coen explains the formidably complex and amazingly orchestrated system of the development of the multicellular organism very well. The reader acquires a new appreciation of development using the mind's color receptors and chemical senses.<br />I wonder, as a non-developmental biologist, if Dr. Coen has inadvertently left some gaping holes in trying to explain left-right asymmetry. Briefly he ascribes the establishment of this asymmetry to the intrinsic lefthandedness or righthandedness of the building blocks of life, e.g., D-amino acids and L-sugars/monosaccharides. This leaves me wondering whether so much more has been found or observed recently to provide a basis for this morphological asymmetry other than ascribing it to the intrinsic asymmetry of molecular building blocks.<br />This book will nonetheless stand out as a unique perspective and exposition of one of biology's most perplexing and still most interesting phenomena.en has inadvertently left some gaping holes in trying to explain left-right asymmetry. Briefly he ascribes the establishment of this asymmetry to the intrinsic lefthandedness or righthandedness of the building blocks of life, e.g., D-amino acids and L-sugars/monosaccharides. This leaves me wondering whether so much more has been found or observed recently to provide a basis for this morphological asymmetry other than ascribing it to the intrinsic asymmetry of molecular building blocks.<br />This book will nonetheless stand out as a unique perspective and exposition of one of biology's most perplexing and still most interesting phenomena.	2002-08-12
US	52140658	R1GDLOQEM53VYY	0452263018	434132972	Going to Extremes (Plume)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Easy to get started and hard to put down.	Joe McGinniss divulges Alaska---its geography, its people and socioeconomics, and its image as seen by residents, transients, and visitors---in vivid prose that is simply hard to put down.  Here is a guy who loves reading maps and pays close attention to a land's features that are way beyond ordinary: coastal glaciers, unnamed and perhaps unexplored mountains, and details of an unforgiving climate and extended summer daylight that are alien to most readers from the lower 48 states.  He describes the interplay of sun, clouds, and the land and always comments on the mountains that are visible from any one of his destinations.  McGinniss not only has a powerful sense of place but also has an uncanny ability to share this sense to his readers, allowing them to form a mental image of the beauty and mystery that he sees and experiences.  Some of the most interesting parts of the book include his encounter with Olive, a native American girl who is torn between staying with her family in western Alaska and trying out the &quot;other life&quot; in Washington DC, a place where hardly anyone from her group can be found.<br />Another interesting thing about the book is that this was written by this guy who was hardly a hiker, who later dwells in deliberate isolation for a few days at a cabin by a lake fringed by mountains where not another soul was present, and who, at the end of book (a climactic end, I should say, and where finally he mentions grizzly bears after I started wondering why he never mentioned them before!), finds himself hanging on to dear life in pursuit of a ledge that could get him closer to the goal of his companions in the scarcely explored hinterlands of the Brooks Range.  This last chapter was lengthy---but for a good reason.  After the establishment of Gates of the Arctic National Park, I bet that the grizzly bear territory that McGinnis and his hiking companions, and the breathtaking meadow that they stumbled upon, have been rediscovered by many a hiker or backpacker.  Nevertheless, reading a book like this 25 years later after its inception, gives me the vicarious experience of fresh discovery and makes me hope that one's personal discovery is enough for the rest of us to be comforted with the existence of untouched and untrammeled wilderness.  Which, I do hope, Alaska still has vast reserves of it.or backpacker.  Nevertheless, reading a book like this 25 years later after its inception, gives me the vicarious experience of fresh discovery and makes me hope that one's personal discovery is enough for the rest of us to be comforted with the existence of untouched and untrammeled wilderness.  Which, I do hope, Alaska still has vast reserves of it.	2002-07-31
US	52140658	R3KACYW04BYP1M	0879695811	558433720	A Passion for DNA: Genes, Genomes, and Society	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Whoa, this book has been ignored!	With the release of &quot;Genes, Girls, and Gamow&quot;, this earlier book has suddenly been ignored, overlooked, and forgotten.  Nobody, of course, forgets &quot;The Double Helix&quot;, and now we have this sensation called &quot;Genes Girls and Gamow&quot;.  With a bad choice of title and an equally bad choice for a cover---a large close-up picture of a geeky young biologist---making such a mockery and preposterous idea of what appeals to girls in general, I can only salute Rosalind Franklin for her exquisite determination not to be lured by this sly personage.  If one wants to examine the life and perspective of the codiscoverer of the structure of the double helix from a more venerable perspective, &quot;A Passion for DNA: Genes Genomes and Society&quot; will earn the reader's respect.  From the cover alone of this book, it is almost galling that, by comparison, &quot;Genes Girls and Gamow&quot; gets more brouhaha, hoopla, and hoolabaloo.	2002-03-29
US	52140658	R1VIBAO85L0H6B	0374523932	276320707	Assembling California	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A cross-section of California at your fingertips.	My firsthand experience of living in Northern California has endeared me  to its fascinating geology, for not too many places on earth have seen so  much upheaval:  from transform faults to terranes banging against the  continent, the uplift of melange complexes from the seafloor, and the  splendid manifestation of batholiths that is the Sierra Nevada.  A drive  from Tahoe to San Francisco takes you across ancient batholiths to the  fore-arc basin of the Central Valley and ultimately to the melange and  suspect terrane mosaic that is the Coast Ranges, Twin Peaks, and the Marin  Headlands.<br />What John McPhee's book successfully delivers is an accessible  cross-section of the geology of the golden state at your fingertips,  including those, including myself, who wax nostalgic about being a former  inhabitant of this geologic wonderland.  McPhee explains not only geologic  processes but also how geology affected exploration and exploitation of the  state's resources.  The geology is not dead, for it resonates to this day  and to the far future, what with the awesome power yet to be unleashed from  California's labyrinthine faults and from the still burgeoning mass of the  Cascade volcanoes to the north.  Nevertheless, McPhee gives a personal and  friendly touch to California's big-time geology.	2000-08-11
US	52140658	RL19M15JSZYO7	038000741X	571510645	Monkey Wrench Gang	Books	5	35	36	N	N	There's Abbey himself in Doc, Seldom Smith, and Hayduke.	This is the first fiction by Abbey that I've read.  That it almost reads like a true story largely stems from the keen sense and accurate knowledge of Colorado Plateau geography that Abbey had.  His description of the  gnarled and surreal landscape---and the interplay of light, sky, and  rock---especially of the Canyonlands area of Utah, is so vivid that it  harks back to his compulsively readable nonfiction work in &quot;Abbey's  Road&quot;, &quot;Down the River&quot;, &quot;One Life at a Time,  Please&quot;, and the like.  Readers who fancy this setting will benefit  from the author's expert familiarity with the Southwest.<br />I couldn't help  but notice that there is a little (or maybe much) of Abbey in every male  character of the book: Doc Sarvis' intellectual ruminations and academic  bent, Seldom Smith's knowledge of almost every nook and cranny of the  canyonlands and the Four Corners area, and George Hayduke's unfettered and  no-holds-barred love for the desert and penchant for irreverence, the  ultimate desert rat and indestructible desert Rambo.  Bonnie Abzzug  personifies people, myself included, who love the desert yet do not seem to  be sure exactly what to do to stop its corruption, exploitation, and  destruction.<br />A lot of non-PC thoughts, ideas, and convictions  nothwithstanding, the book leaves me wondering how much more of the desert  can be paved, accessed, bridged, and defaced before we realize it's too  late.  The characters represent the extreme end of those who feel that  &quot;enough is enough&quot;.	2000-07-20
US	52140658	RMRO953K6ETUB	0449204553	363273152	Walk Across America	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Timeless gem	Twenty-five years from this book's writing, anyone who takes a similar venture as his personal quest for self-discovery is faced with the same problems, questions, and surprises. America is so big and diverse that no  one can make generalizations about its people and their values, beliefs,  and traditions.  I thoroughly enjoyed Peter Jenkins' book.  I never had a  dog, but it was easy to empathize with his feelings for his faithful  companion Cooper.  I never attempted to do a similar undertaking, yet it  was easy to relate to his personal mission.  The commune he ran into in  Tennessee sounded like Alex Garland's community of expatriates in &quot;The  Beach&quot;.  His immersion with home cooking from people who lived off the  land sounded better than any fancy-schmanzy cooking production that I see  in gourmet magazines and cookbooks.  He had a very keen sense of place in  Mobile, Alabama that I found engrossing, especially the way he described  how the urban layout was in tune with the native fauna, like the  &quot;grandfather&quot; oak trees.  Anybody who embarks on a risky and  high-commitment type of venture like Jenkins is bound to win friendships  that armchair travelers who are curious about the rest of the country will  find moving.  My praises also go to his erstwhile dog who helped  &quot;prime&quot; him in his unforgettable adventure.	2000-04-10
US	52140658	R2YSXO7DHPOJDY	0805055940	365627459	The Mojave: A Portrait of the Definitive American Desert	Books	5	7	7	N	N	If there were six stars, this book deserves them.	A feature article from Outside magazine back in 1988 asked &quot;Whose Desert is it Anyway?&quot;, with a striking photograph of Joshua trees and the surreal backdrop of the then-called Joshua Tree National Monument in the magic hour of low sunlight (the article, if I can remember clearly, was  about the proposed California Desert Protection Act).  Since then, many  desert lovers, myself included, have reveled on the upgraded status of  Joshua Tree and Death Valley to national parks and the establishment of  East Mojave Scenic Area to ensure the protection of these desert areas for  the future.<br />The same question is the outright message of Darlington's  book.  The book starts as an almost tantalizingly and compellingly readable  account of what makes people love the desert, and in this particular  instance, the Mojave, part of which is what other people I know have said  is &quot;that stretch between L.A. and Las Vegas&quot; that is &quot;just  desert&quot;, short of saying, &quot;there is nothing there&quot;.  Admittedly (for me) the best part of the book is the beginning, where the  author spends some time traveling the area with a naturalist who is very  particular about the boundaries of the Mojave desert and about finding the  southernmost Joshua trees, and when the author follows the Old Spanish  Trail and the Mormon Trail, thereby giving us the history of exploration  and settlement of California's arid quarter.  Beyond scenery, geology, and  natural and human history, Darlington also provides a balanced expose of  how people have used the desert and have come to love it.  Surely the  desert does not belong to one interest group exclusively.  And to quote the  biologist Kristin Berry from Darlington's book: &quot;where there's  goodwill, there are all kinds of possibilities for compromise that won't  compromise the long-term welfare of the animals [in the Mojave]&quot;, and  I guess the same can be said of the fragile desert as a whole. For even the  deceptive distances, the forbidding temperatures, and the unforgiving  terrain cannot belie the vulnerability of this ecosystem to the potentially  irreversible damage that humans can inflict on it.  We have to respect the  Mojave's unique biological attributes and the psychological benefits of  open space and breathtaking scenery if we want to make sure the desert will  always be there for everyone.eptive distances, the forbidding temperatures, and the unforgiving  terrain cannot belie the vulnerability of this ecosystem to the potentially  irreversible damage that humans can inflict on it.  We have to respect the  Mojave's unique biological attributes and the psychological benefits of  open space and breathtaking scenery if we want to make sure the desert will  always be there for everyone.	2000-04-03
US	52140658	RHFVOXMJ3U2WP	0671872346	970132728	COMPLEXITY: THE EMERGING SCIENCE AT THE EDGE OF ORDER AND CHAOS	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Thinkers from the Land of Enchantment.	The recombinant DNA technology pioneers had their heyday at Asilomar; the Manhattan Project brought together some of the best minds in physics at a pivotal time of the century just passed; lately, tucked between the Jemez  Mountains and the Sangre de Cristo Mountains of northern New Mexico,  think-tankers at the Sante Fe Institute brought us the concept of order at  the brink of chaos.  The universe, and life as we know it, teeters close to  the edge of all-out disorder and boring, predictable superorganization and  &quot;super-stability&quot;, and somehow has managed to stay always in  between.  Roll the tape of the evolution of the universe and life backward,  allow it to move forward, and see whether complexity is an intrinsic  property of the cosmos rather than happenstance.  Does Stuart Kauffman's  &quot;order for free&quot; tendency for self-organization operate in past  and future---or other---universes?<br />This book is a good primer to the  concept of complexity as applied to economics, life, and the universe, and  is an engaging read.  I can imagine some biologists would tend to check out  Kauffman's book &quot;At home in the universe&quot; after reading  &quot;Complexity&quot;.	2000-03-10
US	52140658	R1Z7NRHE64JG05	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Kudos to the author's objectivity!	So I waited ten years before I read this book.  Things that I heard so much about in the 80s yet didn't care for much either came back with this  book as a well-balanced, logical, and coherent eye-opener.  The firsthand,  eyewitness accounts and investigative journalism writing style are the  book's big plus.  Friedman, his Jewish ethnicity and background  notwithstanding, is commended for providing ample opportunities for  Palestinians and Lebanese Muslims to express their views, opinions, and  experiences so that we can all hear from both sides.	1999-10-28
US	52140658	RE4MZWUGE79MC	0679408371	100924305	Faster: The Acceleration of Just About Everything	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Stream-of-consciousness writing.	The book is titled appropriately enough, merely on the basis of how it was written---ruminations of an imaginative and analytical mind at the end of a  century most remembered for its staggering array of technological advances  (which seem to enhance and destroy our quality of life).  Will subsequent  centuries be regarded similarly?<br />But if it were not for its  straightforward prose, I could have paused more often between chapters.  Instead I consciously tried to keep pace with the author's obvious  enthusiasm and excitement for his subject.  After reading this book, I  should not complain so much how I use my time.  At any given day, I could  have squandered my time or used it to my advantage, but it all comes down  to whether I feel like I have accomplished or learned something with the  time that I so deliberately made for myself.  Life is too short---we make  time for multitasking as well as for relaxing and doing nothing, perhaps  just daydreaming.	1999-10-27
US	52140658	RWK1SJUEUSNR8	0060182261	362980509	The Lost Heart of Asia	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A journey to the heart of the Asian landmass.	What was it like when the breakdown of the Soviet Union unleashed the desires of Central Asians for self-governance and the expression of ethnic and cultural identities that had matured several centuries back? What happened when &quot;the honeymoon was over&quot; and the independent nations found themselves grappling with the problems of economic self-sufficiency and ethnic rivalries? I highly recommend this book as this was, to my knowledge, one of the first first-person accounts of a culturally and historically complex region that was &quot;opened&quot; to the outside world after the demise of communism in the world's largest nation.<br />This book also qualifies as a pleasurably readable armchair travelogue. Colin's exquisite prose took me to far-flung, almost mysterious places, peopled by different ethnic groups, some of whom originated thousands of miles to the west, separated also by millennia. The images and sensations of the Pamirs, the Tien Shan, and Kopet Dagh mountains flashed at me as I delved in his travelogue. To the Western reader, this region remains less explored yet has so much to offer with its variegated ethnocultural makeup and its complex and imaginably stunning topography (from Thubron's descriptions and from the few pictures that I have seen of the Pamirs and Tien Shan mountains). Indeed, I am thankful to a friend who gave me this book as a Christmas gift in 1994.	1999-09-03
US	52140658	R8PHUC7SJWAXW	0060925744	580597952	Continental Drift Tie-In	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This book strikes a nerve for its realism.	It is easy to imagine that there are real-life Bob Dubois and Vanise Dorsenville and people with blind ambitions and aspirations close to what we find in the characters from this well-written book.  They live in  noncontiguous places and have disparate backgrounds and experiences.  However, their search for better lives brings them together in a brief but  crucial intersection that may change them forever, sometimes with fatal  consequences.  One unnerving aspect of the novel is the &quot;leave it to  fate&quot; mantra that both main characters live by.  One man's fate is  driven by his brother and his best friend who promise big bucks and fun in  the sun; the woman's fate is determined by the loas, Papa Legba, and other  figures of her country's folklore.  It is a psychological trip to the man's  mind that seems to be an endless battle between dependency and  self-reliance.  We do not quite know what the woman thinks other than what  seems to be clouded by a deep faith in supernatural forces and reliance on  collective &quot;soul-searching&quot; rituals.  In the end, these disparate  lives meet at a juncture that is so moving and tragic.  Indeed we are all  passengers of one planet.  If we let our dreams have their way on us, we  enrich our lives and who knows whose lives from whence we will encounter  and may bring results unanticipated!	1999-07-31
US	52140658	R2IPIY393Q8ANC	034539657X	855932928	Dark Rivers of the Heart	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The best part of the book is...	Eve Jammer's acts of inexhaustible autoeroticism.  I bet the author had a good time imagining and writing this!<br />Quite seriously, the author was pretty good in his writing.  Problem is, he gets too much with descriptions  and metaphors.  And regarding Spencer Grant's vague reminiscences of his  half-forgotten traumatic past, Dean Koontz is no Dostoevsky.  He should  have trimmed down on those annoying and recurring inner thoughts and  memories of Grant, i.e., those interminable texts in italics.	1999-06-20
US	52140658	R2Z18PNS40RFOH	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Admirable man in our world of shrinking wilderness.	Haven't most of us---who discover the magical beauty of the deserts and canyonlands, and the majesty of the mountains---at some point in our lives thought about what this guy had done?  Yet we think about practical  necessities like earning a living, starting a family, establishing careers,  pandering to calls of material resource-seeking and accumulating, or that  we simply have to stay in touch with family and friends who unfortunately  do not share the same sentiment towards nature and wilderness.  I feel  somehow sad, though, that McCandless was too absorbed with his passion for  wilderness that he deliberately lost touch with his family.  I find it  selfish of him to &quot;disown&quot; the parents who themselves have  somehow instilled in him this love for natural beauty in the first place.	1999-04-10
US	52140658	R39LMYCFEQHO1W	0816518513	709601100	America, New Mexico	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Literary tribute to a &quot;different America&quot;.	Open your heart, your mind, and your ears to this almost lyrical work by Robert Leonard Reid as you explore beautiful and quite possibly unique New Mexico either firsthand or vicariously.  Not as thoroughly exploratory,  meticulous, and encyclopedic as Timothy Egan's Pacific Northwest book(s),  not as critical and pessimistic as Robert Kaplan, and not as negative as  Paul Theroux---Mr. Reid is of a different writing caliber.  It is  delightfully insightful, at times painfully verbose and overdescriptive,  but his book on this different part of America is a pleasurable experience  nonetheless for resident, visitor, or armchair traveler.	1999-02-23
US	52140658	R36Y6JHA0L7XTI	0385484992	880135677	Visions: How Science Will Revolutionize the 21st Century	Books	5	9	10	N	N	State of science &amp; technology, predictions in clear prose.	Michio Kaku has done a great job in presenting the current state of our science and technology, and how its exponential progress during the past few decades will influence and impinge on what happens in the next five  decades or so.  He clearly conveys his forecasts in a very objective,  non-foreboding light based not only on his first-hand knowledge and  experience in the physical sciences but also on interviews with an array of  specialists in modern biology and the computer field(s).  The reader is not  expected to believe that everything Michio predicts will come true  according to his timeline, if at all.  Nonetheless, his book comes at the  perfect time when we contemplate and wonder what science has in store for  us at this turn of the century and the millennium, when we reluctantly  accede to recent claims of the &quot;end of science&quot;, and when we keep  our minds open instead to the thrilling possibilities of yet unexplored  scientific and technological frontiers.	1999-01-22
US	52140658	ROM3TY4DY2C44	0671021001	785191741	She's Come Undone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Quite a tormenting read of an unlikeable woman's redemption.	We can understand the emotional devastation that a parents' divorce---and then a rape---can cause.  But I don't understand the incontrovertible hatred Dolores Price had for her father, even though deep inside, she  longed to be with him! Her feelings and attitude towards her father were  very self-destructive and made her life more miserable.  It was obvious  from her recurring memories of her once blissful life with her father that  she might have wanted to do something to save, or rekindle, their  relationship, yet she did absolutely nothing!<br />That keeping the love  letters and pictures of your roommate's boyfriend---all too personal and  confidential---is a common and understandable act for a lost and confused  adolescent: NOW THAT REALLY SCARES ME.  She assimilates this stranger's  identity as if he were her own intimate friend and pursues him years later  (lucky for her she becomes his type!), and then she spills all the beans  and expect him to sympathize with her---these are the machinations of a  professional psychopath. The book is telling us that we can create and  improvise our life experiences, some or most of which can end up hurting us  in the end, but they can enlighten us just the same.  Which may explain why  she becomes more likeable towards the end.  Perhaps the author could have  thought of a better plan that the character would devise to consummate her  self-redemption.  This whole thing about literally stalking someone and  using this as a means of fulfilling one's redemption bothers me.<br />The book  failed to provide a little more detail on how her counseling sessions  helped her acquire the high level of discipline that was necessary for her  to lose the extra poundage.  You get the impression that POOF! she just  lost all that weight and she has become a better person...just like that.	1998-12-30
US	52140658	R1Y7CMLELV7OS6	034540551X	665671428	The Size of the World	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Stirs the wanderlust in us!	Jeff Greenwald brings the enormousness of the world to our minds and imagination.  His personal perspective and his tribulations and dilemmas are very well shared without him sounding too self-centered and absorbed  with his own opinions.  The best part of the book was his unannounced visit  to the American expatriate-writer Paul Bowles in Tangier, Morocco.  His  visit (not his first) to Nepal and Tibet was a little overstated, but given  his personal convictions, this is understandable.  We may not all have the  same degree of time, resource, and ardor that Jeff has for traveling, but  this book is a beautiful reminder of the mystery, intrigue, and wonder the  world out there has in store for us who are willing to appreciate it.  And  all this talk about global village, cyberspace, communication by email,  internet, fax, cell phone, and quick transportation by airplanes have not  diminished the lure of travel and the delicious danger that may lie ahead!	1998-12-01
US	52140658	R20JBZ0P0IXWUS	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	1	6	13	N	N	This is Ernest Hemingway???	I am in the middle of the book and have to decide pretty soon whether to continue reading it or just throw it away.  What am I reading?  All I see is a bunch of aimless, seemingly privileged people spending most of their  time in cafes and bars, and every page I turn has &quot;drink&quot;,  &quot;wine&quot;, &quot;bottle&quot;, &quot;bar&quot;, &quot;cafe&quot;,  &quot;coffee&quot;, &quot;breakfast&quot;, &quot;lunch&quot;,  &quot;dinner&quot; or any word related to dipsomania, gastromania (or  bulimia perhaps?) written all over. They bicker and whine about lost and  purposeless relationships.  What is the point????  The writing is slow,  except for some parts, like when two men go fishing in Spain.  Otherwise,  it is tiresome, boring, almost painful, and quite frankly, of little  redeemable value.  Or maybe, I should just move on, hoping I get to the  point where I find Hemingway's purpose in writing this book (surely, there  must be other far better books written about post-WWI emotional dilemma).  I'll keep my fingers crossed while I laboriously read zzzzzz....	1998-11-30
US	52140658	R1KXMUXLTBA1WL	0811201090	899892595	The Colossus of Maroussi	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Serendipitous wonder.	Henry Miller takes us to quite an unusual experience and perception of Greece with the power of his words in this comparatively unknown book.  This is no trivial travelogue, but it was a great pleasure to delve into  his experience as if it was his reader's own!	1998-11-10
US	52140658	R20WCV5LC4A9Q9	0425161242	528653838	Chromosome 6	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Engaging read, but a lot of defects	It was a book that was quite hard to put down as the story got more exciting towards the end.  Especially when you don't think much about the science, then you can be convinced that it is that easy to humanize bonobo  apes.<br />But scientific things aside, you lose sense of what  happened to the characters.  They all run into each other at the end, but  what happens to the potential romance between Kevin and Candace (Candace  unfortunately becomes reduced to an obeying automaton to Melanie and loses  pretty much her individuality) and the potential romance between Jack and  Laurie (perhaps some of us want to see whether Jack &quot;softens&quot; at  the end and admits his affection towards Laurie??)?  Instead, we lose touch  of Laurie, who just seems to follow orders from the guys, ie, Kevin, Jack,  and Warren.  Does a vacation in the equator really do this to a smart,  independent, and admirable woman like her?  And maybe it would have been  more exciting to see Vinnie Amendola get a good punch from Jack; after all,  Vinnie needs an attitude adjustment!<br />Of course, there is also the  question of what really happens to the 70+ transgenic bonobos.  Will they  survive in the forest as small groups, individuals, or one migrating group,  and where will they end up?  Good thing there is no pan-African (no pun  intended) FDA or Jeremy Rifkin equivalent!  Siegfried could have raised  hell and start mobilizing the (hopefully sober) troops to shoot most of the  bonobos, knowing the whole operation is in jeopardy!  I found Kevin's  remorse and resolution to amend his scientific &quot;sins&quot; by  releasing the bonobos so corny.  The argument of early man surviving the  Pleistocene ice age was kind of shallow.  Suddenly, Melanie would agree to  this and join the rest of the group, jeopardizing everybody's narrow escape  for the sake of fulfilling Kevin's &quot;noble&quot; intentions!  The  characters lose consistency.<br />What of Raymond?  And his relationship to  the younger Darlene?  The reader's vicarious relationship to the characters  vanishes into thin air just like that, as the book's ending was rushed  obviously!  Oh, well...younger Darlene?  The reader's vicarious relationship to the characters  vanishes into thin air just like that, as the book's ending was rushed  obviously!  Oh, well...	1998-11-04
US	52140658	R199MXJM0UWCQ4	0451192001	52230657	How Stella Got Her Groove Back	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Entertaining, but not redeeming	Is this what her books are all about (not that I think it was bad)?  I mean, if you're looking for a read in a noisy bus or train or caught in a traffic jam, look no further.  It was funny and entertaining, and the run-on sentences, which were many, added to the entertainment.  Certainly, this must be her train of thought, but do we have to be subjected to these run-on's?  I would not hope that her other books are like this (now I am curious to read that &quot;Waiting to Exhale&quot;), unless the writing style appeals to the new generation(s). The smells of Jamaica and the characters (good smells, mind you) are alive---that she successfully evoked.	1998-07-08
US	52140658	R1L37IMV81TOEC	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This is contemporary English literature at its finest.	Modern English cannot be written any better than this!  The fluidity of Ishiguro's prose is so astounding it was hard to put the book down, and I would recommend his book to anyone who wants to read and learn decent and virtually flawless contemporary English.  The characters are so alive and ever-present; so is the English countryside!  Definitely one of the best books I have ever come across.	1998-06-22
US	52140658	R3C95Q27G3PARS	0517187760	520261516	Crossing to Safety (Great Reads)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Now I would like to read more Wallace Stegner!	A wonderful reading experience, especially since this is the first Wallace Stegner book I have read.  I am now driven to read &quot;Angle of Repose&quot; and &quot;The Sound of Mountain Water&quot;, and perhaps other works of his in the future.  The prose is beautiful in its fluidity and richness of details, save maybe for Stegner's skewed characterization of Charity over Sally.  Personally, I would not like to meet a character like Charity, and I do not understand how a reasonably strong character like Sid would put up with her, unless, of course, he is attracted to exceedingly cosmopolitan and worldly---not to mention annoyingly feisty and obsessive-compulsive---types like Charity.  The last part was a little slow, and I was somehow expecting that Larry would find Sid in that &quot;edenic pool&quot; that seemed like their (the two couples') best-kept secret from their long-ago hike in the woods.  I would think that that might be an appropriate symbol of Sid's reconnecting with his persona without Charity's incessant controlling and smothering manipulation---that it was never too late to find himself and feel free again. I know it sounds selfish, but , inasmuch as their friendships seemed so perfect and ideal, Charity's dominant personality and self-righteousness spelled like a potential omen  to their entire relationship.  Moderation and the tenets of civility ruled over the book, however, and I was nonetheless captivated by it.	1998-06-12
US	52140658	R30X57BF06XJ1	0821756087	573284289	The Dinosaur Heresies: New Theories Unlocking the Mystery of the Dinosaurs and Their Extinction	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Perhaps the best book on evolution I have ever read!	You must read this if you are interested in animal evolution and paleontology.  The arguments are strong, and the style of writing is exceptional.  I would love to be in Dr. Bakker's lectures or classes if the book illustrates the way he conveys his thoughts and ideas to an involved audience.  I would not mind reading this book again!	1998-05-11
US	52140658	R2HIB4IUT0EB2I	0553273965	225718402	Never Cry Wolf	Books	5	0	0	N	N	For nature lovers or otherwise, a must-read!	Saw the movie a long time ago; never got to read the book until now, and I am glad I did.  Beautifully written and an eye-opener for those who do not realize the pressing problems inherent with resource exploitation and development in the last remaining (precious) wilderness we have.  It will always be good to know that there are still places out there where nature rules!	1998-05-09
US	52140658	RD3M0FGZJTZMV	0060927569	450752050	High Tide in Tucson: Essays from Now or Never	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A pleasurable introduction to Barbara Kingsolver	I thought it was an appropriate book to bring along with me to southern Arizona. When I started reading it while camping at Chiricahua National Monument, I was immediately transfixed.  I finished it after returning to Boston, when the appeal of the book got even better.  It is for anyone who loves nature and has a whole lot of respect for it; she also shares with her readers unique views of special, relatively unknown places such as Canary islands, Benin, a Nature Conservancy preserve in Kentucky, Haleakala Crater, and a remote place somewhere in the southwestern fringe of Arizona (Cabeza Prieta wildlife refuge or Kofa Wilderness perhaps?).  What a great experience to be transported to these places by the power of her words, her keen perceptiveness, and her insatiable curiosity. I am definitely bound to read more of her books!	1998-05-09
US	52140658	R3TM29GSU0RAN6	0679734856	594234915	The Good Rain: Across Time and Terrain in the Pacific Northwest (Vintage Departures)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very enjoyable reading!	I recommend this book to anyone interested in or fascinated by the Pacific Northwest---its geography, history, ecology and pressing issues on environment and preservation of its cultural and anthropological resources.  I like the range of subjects and the &quot;traveling sense&quot; or the sense of place you get as he shares his experiences one area at a time.  Very well written, uplifting, and pleasurable reading even to people who have not lived in this region but at least got a sense of it on short visits.  Suddenly, visions of Mt. Baker looming on the horizon over Puget Sound and the San Juan Islands spring up!	1998-02-07
