US	52143636	R24ZH7LWHVIZ5V	0962855030	475096712	The Four Ingredient Cookbooks-Three Cookbooks in One!	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Best Cookbook in the House!	I originally bought this cookbook for my young teen daughter.  She is required to cook one dinner each week, and I thought this would be simple and straightforward enough.  Then I started using it, and it has become the only cookbook I ever seem to use these days.  No exotic or expensive ingredients, easy directions for each recipe, and the food actually tastes good!  My other cookbooks are all lined up on the bookshelf in the living room, but this one lives on top of the microwave in the kitchen...so, that's a good recommendation!	2004-03-14
US	52143636	R2ABLBMQPYZCS5	1586170112	367695668	The Imitation of Christ: Extracts Chosen from Challoner's 1737 Translation, Illustrated with Illuminated Manuscripts	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Breathtaking!	What a magnificent presentation of a magnificent book.  The text here is the Challoner 1737 translation (the Douay Bible translation was Challoner's also) which is so beautiful and devotional and which fits perfectly with the incredible art on each page.  This is not a large coffee-table-type book; it is meant to be used, to be prayed with, and even to be taken into church to read before the Blessed Sacrament.<br />Breathtaking...magnificent...beautiful...devotional: Ignatius Press has truly outdone themselves here.  Don't miss out on this version of the \\"Imitation of Christ.\\"	2004-03-07
US	52143636	R3M7NLHHHAVL3L	0898709938	68281593	On the Passion of Christ: According to the Four Evangelists : Prayers and Meditations	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Truly Excellent	If you like &quot;The Imitation of Christ&quot; you will love this book.  Thirty-five chapters, only a page or two each, examining in a prayerful way each step of Jesus' Passion.  Five stars does not do this book justice.  My husband and I are each reading a chapter a day for Lent and it is one of the most inspirational books we have ever read.  The translation is at once clear and devout.  My highest personal recommendation for this book.	2004-03-07
US	52143636	R1A01W2U7F89V	0824521072	445254136	Consolations for My Soul: Meditations for the Earthly Pilgrimage Toward the Heavenly Jerusalem	Books	1	15	15	N	Y	What a horrible thing to do to a good book	The wisdom of Thomas a Kempis is completely lost in this rather miserable translation.  There is no reverence here, only a glib smoothness that I suppose the translator thought clever. If I could rate this with negative numbers for stars, I would.	2004-02-27
US	52143636	R1O99E6VH2RYVY	0899422993	249437391	Stations of the Cross(Pack of 10)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Anything from Fr. Lovasik is worth buying...	...<br />Content from Fr. Lovasik is always dependable...traditional Catholicism, but not traditionalist.  The illustrations are well done.  I have used this book with my own kids (now grown) and with CCD classes for years and have always been satisfied.	2004-02-03
US	52143636	R1M4DTF2ZZ24MW	0842355715	531693561	Finding God in the Lord of the Rings	Books	3	20	25	N	N	Okay, as far as it goes...	Which, unfortunately, is not far enough.  What was in the book was fine, but, because the authors are Protestant and writing for a Protestant publisher, there was just so much left out.  Tolkien was a pre-Vatican II Catholic, living in a country which had, since the 1500s been often very anti-Catholic.  His Catholic identity and culture and faith were personally very strong and were evident throughout the entire &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; saga.  If a Catholic author had written a similar book, it would have included such things as: lembas as viaticum (&quot;food for the journey&quot;, the Eucharistic connection), elf lore in poetry and song (Marian images and the Mysteries of the Rosary), the Stations of the Cross (Frodo and Sam),Purgatory (the dead who follow Aragorn, himself a symbol of Christ the King), the Communion of Saints (Elbereth), the Church Militant, Suffering, and Triumphant, free will contrasted with predestination.  The list, like the road, &quot;goes ever on and on&quot;!  While it's true that Tolkien hated allegory, it's also true that &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; was not separate from who he was, and his identity was bound up with these Catholic ideas and images.<br />&quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; and its prequel &quot;The Silmarillion&quot;, are amazingly religious books, but I don't think that &quot;Finding God in the Lord of the Rings&quot; fully explores the depths of their religious content.  Still, all in all, it was worth reading, and I would recommend it to anyone with an interest in this dimension of Tolkien's works.  Just don't expect too much depth.	2004-01-24
US	52143636	R5WUMOQBQFJW1	1886969574	310244360	Qigong for Health & Martial Arts: Exercises and Meditation (Qigong, Health and Healing)	Books	5	42	44	N	Y	One of the very best chi kung books to buy!	Many years ago, when I was sweating and groaning my way through a daily karate class, I was exposed to chi kung.  This book was my first text.  The instruction, both text and photo, is exceptionally clear.  You will find the Eight Piece Brocade and the Twelve Moving Forms, each of which make a wonderful physical work-out, even if you aren't particularly interested in all that chi-stuff.  There is also a set of standing chi kung forms which are very good for learning to notice and direct your chi.  The martial section was fun to read as was the section on Chinese yoga.<br />I used to get pretty banged-up in that karate program, because I was a middle-aged mom in there with a bunch of teens and young men.  Every night, I would do these chi kung exercises to get rid of the pain and bruises so I could get back to class the next day.  Yes...it works!  I am not doing karate any more, but have pursued chi kung through the years.  This book is a magnificent introduction to the subject.  It's all business; no new-age drivel anywhere.	2002-02-24
US	52143636	RAUGQG08KEMIM	0895550806	676585837	Bethlehem: The Sacred Infancy of Our Most Dear and Blessed Redeemer	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Beautiful Book for Advent...or any time of the year	Although the main topic of this book is the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem, Fr. Faber's discussion runs the gamut of Catholic devotion and faith.  The whole Christmas story is here:  the Father's eternal love, Mary's virtue and freedom, the wise men, the shepherds, and so on, until we find we have come back full circle to the Father's love.<br />There is a common tone whilch runs through all Faber's books, and it is one of gladness and gratitude.  A verse from a song runs through my mind as I contemplate this book and others by him:  &quot;In only a moment, we both will be old; we won't even notice the sun growing cold.  And so in this moment, with sunshine above, my cup runneth over with love.&quot;  Faber's books tell of love and joy in the warm bright sunshine of God's love for us, a sunshine which will never grow cold.  That warmth and brightness is caught and savored as we reflect on our own love for Jesus and Mary, our family and friends, and those others who may touch our loves only briefly and then move on.  Our love for each other and God's love for us:  a circle of radiant joy and gladness pervades this peaceful and gentle book, telling the age-old story as only Fr. Faber can, with theology, poetry, and music morphing in unexpected ways one into another.	2001-11-22
US	52143636	R3CC5FBPM2QG9Q	1579544592	942650300	8 Minutes in the Morning: A Simple Way to Start Your Day That Burns Fat and Sheds the Pounds	Books	4	113	119	N	Y	A Great Exercise Plan	&quot;8 Minutes in the Morning&quot; is a weight-loss and weight-maintenance plan with a couple of interesting features.  The first is the diet plan.  Cruise calls it the &quot;Eat Fat to Get Fit&quot; program.  Everything is outlined for you, including little reproducible food journal cards so you can keep track of what you are eating each day. Since I am not overweight, and can't even envision eating the amount of fat each day that he recommends, I am not using this portion of the book, but I can appreciate that it is well laid out and seems very user-friendly.<br />The second part of the book is the exercise routine.  This is actually why I bought the book in the first place.  Exercise is in two parts:  strength training with light hand weights (dumbbells) and power walking.  The strength training segment works two major muscle groups each morning, taking only about eight minutes, six days a week.  There is a four week plan given, so you have lots of variety and no chance of boredom.  The photos and text instruction are excellent.  I like the fact that he rotates through the muscle groups, which gets everything worked out while not stressing to the point of injury, and the daily routine, which, while very short, gives me something to do each day.  I am a creature of habit and I find I do better if I have a little to do every day, rather than a couple of big workouts each week.  I also like the fact that this workout does not require any expensive or bulky equipment.  Just light weights, a chair, maybe something like a mat to put down on the floor.  He also gives instruction in &quot;power walking&quot; which is good for the aerobic component. The instructions are very clear in terms of frequency, duration, intensity, and proper form.<br />As I said, I am not doing the diet part of this program, since I have been with the McDougall Program for quite a while, but the book was worth the money for me just for the strength training routine it contains.  I recommend this book if you want to form a solid exercise habit.is book if you want to form a solid exercise habit.	2001-11-16
US	52143636	R2JDUO6NNODB94	0842334610	813718541	One Year with Jesus NLT	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Good Way to Focus on the Gospels for a Year	I wanted to spend a year with just the Gospels, rather than the larger New Testament or the even larger Bible, so I picked up a copy of this book.  I have been very pleased.  The selection for each day is taken from a harmony of the Gospels (and the entire harmony list is given for reference in the back of the book), so as the year progresses, you move quite thoroughly through the life and ministry of Jesus.  Daily readings are accompanied by an explanatory text and an inspirational text.  Just a few minutes reading each day gets through it, so it's not really much of a time investment.  The translation is easy to read, but corresponds very well to more traditional translations.  The print is a decent size (I read mine in a rather dimly-lit church) and the binding is holding the pages in.  A word to Catholics considering this book:  this book is published by Tyndale, a Protestant publisher, but I haven't found anything in the commentaries that is either anti-Catholic or significantly against Church doctrine.  In fact, the only item I have come across so far is a little reference to Jesus' brothers and sisters, which is definitely a Protestant concept, but a rather minor one.  I am enjoying this book a lot and am glad I bought it.	2001-10-28
US	52143636	RG97FKC94S11J	1928832067	706311938	When Jesus Sleeps: Finding Spiritual Peace Amid the Storms of Life	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A Book for the Storms of Life	This is a very small book, just three chapters from a larger work.  But, as C.S. Lewis noted in another context, &quot;its inside is bigger than its outside.&quot;<br />People often think that the presence of evil in the world, in all its myriad forms, is the main objection to God and to Christianity.  But evil can be answered pretty easily.  Just pick up any apologetics book to find the answer to the question, &quot;Why does God permit good people to suffer?&quot;  But once you get past the problem of evil, and troublesome dogmatic knots are untangled, and you just try to get on with life, you will soon come to the real problem, and that is, &quot;Why is God silent?&quot; Not evil, but silence, is the unraveling point of Christianity for many.<br />It is this point that the author addresses in his little book.  He begins with the Gospel account of the storm on the lake.  Jesus and the disciples are in the little boat.  Jesus is asleep, and the disciples are afraid for their lives.  Why is Jesus sleeping when the storm is in full fury around them?  Why is He silent in our lives when the storms threaten to destroy?<br />His answer is contained in the three theological virtues of faith, hope, and charity.  No pop psychology.  No warm fuzzies.  Just a solid discussion that satisfies the head and the heart both.<br />If you feel that you are beating your fists against heaven with your prayers and pleas, and all you hear is a big Divine Nothing, don't despair.  Read this little book a few times and reflect on its contents.  You will find both comfort and challenge, although it will not necessarily be in the way you expect.  God's silence is not God's absence or indifference.	2001-06-20
US	52143636	R1IHHUTR06QWCT	0060901918	745908638	The Perennial Philosophy	Books	3	28	68	N	Y	Reductionism's Finest Hour	I'm not actually sure how perennial Huxley's philosophy is, but in reality there is very little, if any, philosophy in the book at all.  What there is, is a discussion of Western religion, particularly Christianity, as judged by vedanta Hinduism.  Not exactly an unbiased discussion!<br />Aside from the absence of philosophical method in this book, a major flaw is the author's reduction of all religion to his version of mysticism.  Religion is often defined, in a casual way, as &quot;creed, code, cult,&quot; yet there is no mention of belief, morality, or liturgy.  To reduce Judaism, Christianity, and Islam to just mysticism renders a very incomplete and totally inaccurate picture of Western religions.<br />Huxley says in the beginning that he will not use the Bible to support his ideas as applied to this mysticism, and I notice he didn't use any of the Church Fathers either.  With good reason, but not for the one he gave.  No, it would have been too easy for the interested reader to look up scripture quotes cited to discover their original context.  That would have been disastrous for Huxley's book.  Instead he picked out people like Eckhardt, whose writings were condemned by the Church because he came perilously close to the edge of heresy in promoting a vedanta-like monism in what he had to say.  Or St. Catherine of Genoa, with whom most readers, even Catholic ones, would not be familiar.  Since she is a cannonized saint, her writings must have reflected authentic Christianity, but the little bits Huxley used to support his ideas must then have been lifted out of the original context, and certainly out of the larger context of St. Catherine's Catholic faith.  Other quotes came mostly from members of fringe groups and were not representative of traditional Christianity.<br />The book was well researched, at least from the point of view of digging up little snippets of quotes to support his ideas, and it was written in an enjoyable manner, but, ultimately, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam are fundamentally incompatible with Hinduism, especially in its advaita form, and there is no reconciliation possible.  Westerners are so often accused of being &quot;intolerant,&quot; but at least we are more honest than what Huxley presents in the &quot;Perennial Philosophy.&quot;Christianity, and Islam are fundamentally incompatible with Hinduism, especially in its advaita form, and there is no reconciliation possible.  Westerners are so often accused of being &quot;intolerant,&quot; but at least we are more honest than what Huxley presents in the &quot;Perennial Philosophy.&quot;	2001-06-09
US	52143636	R262JTC8V8SMUU	0830817743	140993137	Handbook of Christian Apologetics	Books	5	26	30	N	Y	Logic and Art	Someone once told me that he thought Art with a capital A was the antithesis of logic.  I suppose that from his point of view, fully in line with the &quot;Art for Art's sake&quot; school of thought, he was right, but from my point of view, I have always thought that art and logic were two sides of the same coin, as it were, both tools to be used to learn about the nature of Ultimate Reality.  And, as art transcends, so often does logic, and in this book we find an example of that.  Kreeft and Tacelli's book is so finely-crafted and well-presented that it is a thing of beauty to behold, and art form in itself perhaps.<br />The book begins at the beginning, with a discussion of the nature of Apologetics and a realistic appraisal of its scope and limitations.  It then moves on through Faith and Reason, with a description of each and the differences between them, and their mutual interdependence.  I particularly enjoyed the little paragraphs on Dualism and how it fits in with private vs. public experiences.<br />Section Two gives twenty arguments for the existence of God.  They are called &quot;arguments&quot; here, and not &quot;proofs&quot; and the discussion was more realistic in this book than in other philosophy books I have read over the years.  The authors are careful to sort them out and explain each one thoroughly, including objections and limitations, from the most often seen &quot;First Mover&quot; and &quot;Argument by Design&quot; to the very short and delightful &quot;Argument from Aesthetic Experience&quot; which reads:  &quot;There is the music of Johann Sebastian Bach.  Therefore there must be a God.&quot;  The authors' comment is:  &quot;You either see this one or you don't.&quot;  Bravo!  My favorite argument!<br />The balance of section two discusses the nature of God, and what we can, and cannot know, by reason.<br />Section three talks about God and Nature.  This includes the section that discusses the problem of evil.  I found this to be well written, but there was one little part in it that was of particular interest to me.  I have been reading a lot Alan Watts' books lately, because he wrote well from a certain viewpoint.  One of the themes that comes up over and over throughout his books is non-dualism.  He is writing from a rather classic Hindu perspective, and I have been trying to understand this from a Catholic Christian point of view.  Was not having too much success in this, until I got to pp. 124-125 and the section on evil and the 'mystery of solidarity.'  This was brilliantly done and very useful to me.<br />Part four goes into the Divinity of Christ and the Resurrection.  Pretty standard argumentation here, but very well thought out and presented.  The section titled &quot;The Bible: Myth or History,&quot; was magnificent.  Especially having read Watts' &quot;Myth and Ritual in Christianity,&quot; this was a refreshing antidote.  Also useful if you need, as I do, to sort out the competing views of Scripture from liberal to conservative to fundamentalist point of views.<br />Part five covered life after death, heaven, hell, and salvation.  Typical arguments; very well presented.<br />Part six was the best part of a wonderful book.  It discussed the similarities and differences between Christianity and other religions, both Eastern and Western.  The chapter on Objective Truth was a real gem. You should read this chapter first before going through the rest of the book.  The final chapter contained a lenghthy and wonderful quote from C.S. Lewis called &quot;Man or Rabbit?&quot;  Which identity do we choose and why?<br />The index is very, very thorough and useful.<br />I have read this book so many times and it never fails to satisfy.  If you are a Catholic or mainstream Protestant with perhaps just a little philosophical training (maybe just Phil. 101 from college), or even a non-believer who is interested in understanding WHAT Christians believe and WHY they believe it, you might find this book to be both interesting and beneficial.o be both interesting and beneficial.	2001-05-29
US	52143636	RGREV3ZJ7MR79	0385468148	148063542	The Way of a Pilgrim and The Pilgrim Continues His Way	Books	5	77	77	N	Y	A story that will go right to your heart	I first read this book eighteen years ago and the pilgrim's humble and simple story touched something in my heart.  The book was so inspiring that it moved me to begin praying the Jesus Prayer, and the Prayer and the Pilgrim have been my companions in life ever since.<br />The story takes place in Russia in the nineteenth century.  Our pilgrim is a man who has lost his family and his home, is slightly disabled, and who is burning with a passion for God.  He hears a sermon on the necessity of constant prayer, and in his eagerness to find out how this is possible, sets out on a journey across Russia to meet with any spiritual advisor who can instruct him.  One of these holy fathers introduces him to the Philokalia and the Prayer of the Heart.  In passing along the instruction, however, the pilgrim is really teaching us, the readers.  This book is filled with sound teaching, but, unlike other books on spirituality/theology, it does not tell us what to do, but rather lets the pilgrim, through narrative and dialogue, tell what he himself did.  The instruction unfolds along with the story, touching the reader's heart and soul in the process.<br />If you read this and would like to pursue the Prayer of the Heart, you might also want to read another very simple book called &quot;Living the Jesus Prayer,&quot; by Irma Zaleski.  Those two books, plus the Gospel, will get you through your whole life and beyond, and it will be a journey of joy and peace, and a direct experience of Omnipresence.	2001-05-18
US	52143636	R3GEM1F4EYF60D	0553379267	284019128	A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A Book to Read and Re-Read...And Then Read Some More!	What an amazing story this is! Other reviewers have discussed the plot, characters, and setting, so I will bypass all that. A few other things then:<br />First, if you are Catholic and grew up before the Second Vatican Council, when everything was still in Latin, you're really going to feel at home here. If not, most of the Latin can be figured out from the context of the story.<br />Second, apart from a magnificent sci-fi story, there are some larger issues worth considering: The relationship of science and technology to religion; the reaction of the masses to scientific disaster; the sanctity of human life; finding holiness in secular activities; the old tomater woman and the need to forgive God (that one set me back on my heels!); Rachel, innocence, and redemption; the Church as the vehicle for continuing Divine Truth and human civilization; the question of history as cyclic or linear.<br />Third, Babylon 5 fans will want to watch out for some Leibowitz' references, such as G'Kar's eyeball, and the Rangers.<br />Of all the fiction books I have enjoyed, sci-fi or otherwise, &quot;A Canticle for Leibowitz&quot; is my very favorite and I have read it many, many times.	2001-05-18
US	52143636	R1WW14QGSQB1NG	0918477603	242003984	Trojan Horse in the City of God: How Godlessness Crept into the Sanctuary-And How to Thrust It Out Again	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Balanced, Intelligent, and Readable	Recently, I have been reading quite a few of Alan Watts books in an attempt to understand the worldview he, and others like him, represents.  This has, in turn, led me into Vedanta-ism, New Age-ism, modernism, secularism, moral relativism, existentialism, nihilism, determinism, behavioralism, humanism, and probably a few more -isms that I have lost track of and haven't seen since college anyway.  What began as an intellectual adventure turned into a descent into hell.  How do people live with this stuff?  Personally, I prefer the Light of Christ, but it seems so hard to come by these days.<br />Luckily for me, and Amazon.com's seemingly endless link system, I came across several wonderful books which served as a rope to haul my head out of that pit.  One of those books is Von Hildebrand's book, &quot;Trojan Horse in the City of God.&quot;  He is observant and he writes it as he sees it.  The Second Vatican Council has been much abused, both by Progressives who have twisted its message almost beyond recognition, and by Traditionalists, who mostly spit when the subject of the Council comes up.  I appreciate Von Hildebrand's recourse to calm reason and well-derived philosophical argument.<br />The book is easy enough to read, given the complexity of the subject matter.  The chapters are short, and are divided into even shorter sections.  Easy to pick up and put down and return to later.<br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone who is trying to figure out what it means to be a Catholic Christian in the present age, and who wants to be able to counter some of the nonsense that so often passes for Catholic teachings these days.	2001-03-22
US	52143636	RNZA7VWUA5DB1	0874813735	205387662	Vedanta: A Simple Introduction	Books	2	6	83	N	N	&quot;Have It Your Way:&quot; A Guide to Burger King Spirituality	This little book is simple to the point of being simplistic. True, it is written clearly enough so that the reader will have a general idea of what Vedanta teaches by the time s/he reaches the end of it. On the other hand, there are inaccuracies present which perhaps the reader should be aware of. Vedanta seems to think it can gather all the world's religions into its embrace; that it &quot;is relevant to...all religious backgrounds,&quot; (page 1), and it &quot;affirms that all religions teach the same basic truths about God, the world and our relationship to one another.&quot; (page 3). Nothing could be farther from the truth. Western religions, and especially Christianity, simply do not agree with the Vedanta worldview. First, there is the nature of God. In Vedanta, it's all Brahman, impersonal being. In Christianity, God is revealed as Trinity, three divine Persons in one Godhead. God is always personal, but ultimately Other. God's nature is omnipresent love. Brahman is a foreign concept. Second, the nature of human beings, and our relationship to each other: In Vedanta, we are no more, no less than a manifestation of Brahman (page 81); self-idolotry is the name of the game. You don't even have to become God, that's what you are to start with. Because of this, there is no individual person, no free will. In Christianity, we are creatures, made in the image and likeness of the One who created us. We are free, intelligent, loving individuals. We are accountable for our actions and attitudes. We are commanded to love our neighbor as ourself because God loves us; Vedanta says, &quot;Love your neighbor as yourself because your neighbor is yourself.&quot; (page 14). In Vedanta, there are no sins, only mistakes. Christianity recognizes that we err because we are human, but we also do some pretty scummy things that we know at the time are wrong; this is one definition of sin, and Christianity distinguishes between sin, error, and accident. Third, the nature of the world: Because &quot;it's all Brahman looking at Brahman,&quot; in the monist worldview of Vedanta there is no objective reality, and no absolute truth. This eliminates objective morality. If it feels right, it must be right. Unfortunately, &quot;right&quot; is often synonomous with &quot;convenient.&quot; Christianity says that Truth is absolute and there are clear moral laws which must be obeyed. Vedanta does not distinguish between pantheism (Brahman becomes the world) or panentheism (the world is God). Christianity says that &quot;In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth.&quot; The earth is not God. People are not God. We have human nature; only God is God. Vedanta's view of evolution is chiliastic (ultimate perfectibility of everyone and everything. Everyone gets saved, the &quot;inevitable happy ending of the movie.&quot; (page 13)). Christianity says we are fallen and in need of salvation, a salvation not accomplished by ourselves. These are only a few of the differences between Vedanta and Chrisianity, but they are major ones. For this book to say, &quot;Despite external variations in the world religions, the internals are more alike than not...&quot; (p.59) is either naive or deceptive. It is obvious that internally, Vedanta and Christianity are poles apart. The common saying that all religions are just different paths up the same mountain is sheer nonsense. Who is to say that it is the same mountain, or that all religions are ascending? Christians, especially Catholics and liberal mainstream Protestants have been interested in ecumenical (interfaith) dialog for many years, but if this book is chosen as a reference source, I would urge strong caution. What is written here is inaccurate and incomplete.: Because &quot;it's all Brahman looking at Brahman,&quot; in the monist worldview of Vedanta there is no objective reality, and no absolute truth. This eliminates objective morality. If it feels right, it must be right. Unfortunately, &quot;right&quot; is often synonomous with &quot;convenient.&quot; Christianity says that Truth is absolute and there are clear moral laws which must be obeyed. Vedanta does not distinguish between pantheism (Brahman becomes the world) or panentheism (the world is God). Christianity says that &quot;In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth.&quot; The earth is not God. People are not God. We have human nature; only God is God. Vedanta's view of evolution is chiliastic (ultimate perfectibility of everyone and everything. Everyone gets saved, the &quot;inevitable happy ending of the movie.&quot; (page 13)). Christianity says we are fallen and in need of salvation, a salvation not accomplished by ourselves. These are only a few of the differences between Vedanta and Chrisianity, but they are major ones. For this book to say, &quot;Despite external variations in the world religions, the internals are more alike than not...&quot; (p.59) is either naive or deceptive. It is obvious that internally, Vedanta and Christianity are poles apart. The common saying that all religions are just different paths up the same mountain is sheer nonsense. Who is to say that it is the same mountain, or that all religions are ascending? Christians, especially Catholics and liberal mainstream Protestants have been interested in ecumenical (interfaith) dialog for many years, but if this book is chosen as a reference source, I would urge strong caution. What is written here is inaccurate and incomplete.	2001-02-17
US	52143636	R1S1TW1EKZMFUK	0826410901	295243908	Living the Jesus Prayer	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Short and Simple, Peaceful and Pure	If you have read &quot;The Way of the Pilgrim&quot; and feel attracted to the Jesus Prayer, you may safely rely on this little book to get you started and keep you going.<br />I like to memorize worthwhile and beautiful passages in books as an aid to internalization, to become what I read, and the highest praise I can give to this book is that the whole thing is worth learning by heart.  Fitting...for the &quot;Prayer of the Heart.&quot;	2001-01-30
US	52143636	R19QNSPYPKO5OX	0679723005	83678771	The Book: On the Taboo Against Knowing Who You Are	Books	4	26	56	N	Y	An enjoyable book, but too many unanswered questions	Alan Watts, like Eknath Easwaran and Billy Graham, is a man of one message, and he preaches it over and over under the guise of various titles and topics.  In this book,he attempts to explain Vedanta, the philosophical underpinning of some forms of Hinduism and of New Age spirituality.  His style is conversational and humorous and the book is really very easy to read and understand, despite the foreign ideas he is trying to present.<br />The problem I have with &quot;The Book&quot; is that he assumes that advaita (non-dualism) is correct in the first place, and then goes on to justify it in the second place, a dangerous process which, predictably, leaves much of his view open to debate.<br />The big issue which cleaves any metaphysical discussion in twain is the nature of Ultimate Reality, and the question which is asked is, &quot;Is Reality One (monism) or More (dualism)?  Vedanta falls into the first category, based on the ancient teachings of the Upanishads.  Western religions, such as Judaism, Islam, and Christianity, fall into into the second group.  Pantheism, the universe emmanating out of &quot;God&quot; is monist; creation, the universe created by God who is inseparable yet distinct from that universe, is dualist.  Vedanta is monist and that is what Watts is trying to explain to a Western audience.<br />While I enjoyed his discussion, I found some questions niggling at the back of my mind.  I kept reading, hoping to find some answers, but, alas, non were forthcoming.  Here is a little of what I was wondering:<br />1)If there is only one Reality, and everything else is only apparent or illusion, how can there be change or relation in the universe?  Yet, when we think about the theory of evolution, whether as a limited adaptive process or on a grand cosmological scale, change is required and observed.  I do not understand how one can hold both non-dualism and evolution simultaneously.<br />2)If Reality is one only, then the Ground of Being must be identified with all the limitations of the material world.  It must be in constant change (even though change is impossible), thus acquiring something new or losing something.  Either way, the Ultimate Reality comes off as deficient.  And Watts does identify the world with God.<br />3)His particular spin on the ancient Hindu tale of 'lila' would not convince a five-year-old, let alone a thinking adult.  What good is a game of cosmic hide-and-seek when there is no one to play with?  How could Brahman/gOD/universe pretend to be other so well that &quot;it takes him a long time to remember how and where he hid himself.&quot;  Sounds like senility to me, and utterly ridiculous as well, but with some terrifying consequences for you and me.<br />4)These consequences show up in some practical problems: A)Because there is only One, there can be no real relationships, as I said above.  This means no self-emptying/Other-filling love.  Are we really ready to write off love?  Keep in mind that I am writing about Watts' book here, and not the Upanishads or Vedanta as told by other sources. B)Because there is only One, there is no free will.  Yet the obvious everyday experience we all have is that we make choices, from the trivial to those of paramount importance.  This is one example of what I mean when I said above that Watts assumes that non-dualism is correct, but he does not really offer any evidence to support his claims.  The evidence of my senses is that I make choices, granted some freer than others, but choices nonetheless. C)Because there is only One, there is no good or evil, since that requires relationships.  Good and evil for Watts are mere poles of a single reality.  He gives no evidence that this is really true, but the evidence of my senses is that I can easily tell the difference between Mother Teresa and Hitler.  D)Because there is only One, even though I AM IT, as Watts says, I still have no objective existence, and therefore, I see no point to life.  The answer to thequestion, often posed at midlife, &quot;Is this all there is?&quot; would be &quot;No, not even this much.&quot;  Achievements and aspirations, loves and hates are all only apparently real; when you're gone, it's over.  Enter mid-life crisis.<br />5)To sum up Christian belief in Tertullian's words, &quot;I believe because it's absurd,&quot; is in itself absurd given Christianity's two millenia of logical apologetics.  Actually, the further along I got in &quot;The Book&quot; the more I felt that &quot;Credo quia absurdum&quot; would have made a pretty good sub-title for this work.  To continue...<br />6)If the universe &quot;peoples&quot; just as trees &quot;leave&quot; or the ocean &quot;waves&quot; is an interesting idea, but one with serious problems.  Leaves are of the same substance as trees, and waves are no more than the ocean's water in different form (Watts' point exactly), but there is a difference between an inorganic and impersonal universe/gOD/Brahman/Reality (whatever) and organic and personal human beings.  People are different from stars and rocks, even if some of the same chemistry and physics apply.  This is a common enough observation of our senses and experience, and I would expect that if Watts wants us to understand it in a radically different way, he would give some supporting evidence to back up his claims.  But, as I said, he does not.<br />This is some of what I was wondering while I was reading &quot;The Book.&quot;  It seems to me that if Watts is writing to a Western audience with Western preconceptions, he ought to be a little more generous with proof, or at least serious evidence, to justify his position against the observations of our senses.<br />Further, he digresses into some interesting but totally irrelevant discussions (most of the Black &amp; White chapter).  My response, over and over, was, &quot;Well, that's nice.  So what?&quot;  How do these ideas affect my life?  What good is wisdom if it doesn't translate into behavior?<br />I just can't remember when I've enjoyed a book more than this one; it definitely gets four stars just for the fun-factor.  Reading this book made me think very carefully about my own position (Catholic down to my toes) on the matter of Ultimate Reality and the consequences arising therefrom.  I was disappointed that he left so many questions unanswered, since these are questions that any Westerner would address.  Going directly to the major Upanishads, or to Shankara, or to any direct source would more profitable than trying to understand non-dualism as filtered by Watts' New Age mindset.  Eknath Easwaran is a reliable guide to meditation and behavior within this tradition as well, if you read through his east-west synchretism, but he is thoroughly Vedanta in his approach.question, often posed at midlife, &quot;Is this all there is?&quot; would be &quot;No, not even this much.&quot;  Achievements and aspirations, loves and hates are all only apparently real; when you're gone, it's over.  Enter mid-life crisis.<br />5)To sum up Christian belief in Tertullian's words, &quot;I believe because it's absurd,&quot; is in itself absurd given Christianity's two millenia of logical apologetics.  Actually, the further along I got in &quot;The Book&quot; the more I felt that &quot;Credo quia absurdum&quot; would have made a pretty good sub-title for this work.  To continue...<br />6)If the universe &quot;peoples&quot; just as trees &quot;leave&quot; or the ocean &quot;waves&quot; is an interesting idea, but one with serious problems.  Leaves are of the same substance as trees, and waves are no more than the ocean's water in different form (Watts' point exactly), but there is a difference between an inorganic and impersonal universe/gOD/Brahman/Reality (whatever) and organic and personal human beings.  People are different from stars and rocks, even if some of the same chemistry and physics apply.  This is a common enough observation of our senses and experience, and I would expect that if Watts wants us to understand it in a radically different way, he would give some supporting evidence to back up his claims.  But, as I said, he does not.<br />This is some of what I was wondering while I was reading &quot;The Book.&quot;  It seems to me that if Watts is writing to a Western audience with Western preconceptions, he ought to be a little more generous with proof, or at least serious evidence, to justify his position against the observations of our senses.<br />Further, he digresses into some interesting but totally irrelevant discussions (most of the Black &amp; White chapter).  My response, over and over, was, &quot;Well, that's nice.  So what?&quot;  How do these ideas affect my life?  What good is wisdom if it doesn't translate into behavior?<br />I just can't remember when I've enjoyed a book more than this one; it definitely gets four stars just for the fun-factor.  Reading this book made me think very carefully about my own position (Catholic down to my toes) on the matter of Ultimate Reality and the consequences arising therefrom.  I was disappointed that he left so many questions unanswered, since these are questions that any Westerner would address.  Going directly to the major Upanishads, or to Shankara, or to any direct source would more profitable than trying to understand non-dualism as filtered by Watts' New Age mindset.  Eknath Easwaran is a reliable guide to meditation and behavior within this tradition as well, if you read through his east-west synchretism, but he is thoroughly Vedanta in his approach.	2001-01-15
US	52143636	RGOXP2VJZRD5O	0313232008	769081270	The Trachtenberg Speed System of Basic Mathematics	Books	5	24	24	N	N	You Can Count on this System for the Right Answer!	A high school math teacher introduced me to this book 'way back in the sixties, and I have had a copy on my shelf ever since.  One of the great advantages to being able to do arithmetic really fast in your head is that you can keep up with the scanner at the grocery store.  Also good if you want to blow your kids away with speed and accuracy.  The end of the book,  &quot;Algebraic Description of the Method&quot; the icing on the cake for me; I just love the analysis of how arithmetic processes work.  The story of Trachtenberg at the beginning was quite touching, too, and I greatly admire the man and his work.  All in all, this book was quite influential for a flower child back then, and has continued so into middle age.  Books like this one go beyond mere math and can actually shape the way you think.	2001-01-07
US	52143636	RG757QVH264J5	1930084056	234684091	Beginning Apologetics 4: How to Answer Atheists and New Agers	Books	2	15	23	N	Y	A  Good Effort	I did not find the arguments in this little book to be much use to me, although perhaps others will.  There is not enough information on any of the topics to really substantiate the points that the authors make.  In fact, I think that if someone tried to use this book as a primary tool in a conversation with an intelligent and well-educated New Ager or atheist, he would be pretty much shredded.  On the other hand, the type size was nice and big.	2000-11-25
US	52143636	RQ7XCFGODXRXU	0671309021	745677979	Creature Creator	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This Book Should Get 10 Stars at least!	Even though &quot;The Creator and the Creature&quot; is nearly a century and a half old now, it has not lost its relevance to the modern world.  Fr. Faber's initial point (Book 1) is that we have forgotten that we are creatures, preferring instead to see ourselves as our own end.  He then tells us what it is to be a creature, what it is to have a Creator, what our obligations are, and what the Creator does for us.  Sounds preachy and dry as dust, right?  Nope!  Faber is filled with joy and light and life.  There is Truth shining from every paragraph, every sentence.  Here are a few of his lines:<br />&quot;Is not His love breathing out everywhere?&quot; (p. 146) &quot;Mercy is the tranquility of His omnipotence and the sweetness of His omnipresence.&quot; (p.154) &quot;His omnipresence is like the pressure of the air, needful to health and life, yet imperceptible.&quot; (p.171) &quot;We live encircled by His grace, which flows around us like the plentiful bright air.&quot; (p.207) &quot;The Spirit of God is hiding everywhere, so that the world is an enchanted place, and all the enchantment is for God.&quot;(p.259) &quot;So that pure love mingles with our blameless thoughts of self, and heaven is already a power on earth, drawing us with magnetic force into the spheres of its own abounding light; and what is heaven but the locality we give to that dear glory of our Incomprhensible and Omnipresent Father, in whose embrace we long to hide ourselves for love?&quot;(p.270)<br />See the poetry?  Hear the music?  The whole book is filled up with good things for the heart and soul.  If you want to know the love of God, the dignity of humankind, and the joy of creation, read this book.  The time and energy you spend will be worth it!	2000-11-25
US	52143636	R3IJO1DR59N8SE	157075165X	72470089	West African Religious Traditions: Focus on the Akan of Ghana (Faith Meets Faith Series)	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Excellent coverage of an interesting subject.	I have been scouring Amazon for books on the Akan peoples of Western Africa and came up with this one.  What a find!  Culture, traditional religious beliefs, proverbs, Christianity, and Islam are all here, tied together with a historical perspective that is just what I was looking for. One of the most interesting things was that he uses the book &quot;Things Fall Apart&quot; for much of his discussion.  Reading that book at the same time as this one enriched my understanding of both.  Definitely worth the time spent.	2000-11-25
US	52143636	R2PWWGPBC6WWW4	089870202X	451600656	Fundamentals of the Faith: Essays in Christian Apologetics	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A Terrific Book	I have been a professional religious educator for 20+ years now, and this is one book that I have relied on consistently for many years.  It is intelligent without being obtuse, faithful without fundamentalism.  I particularly appreciated the comparative religions sections, especially the two on Hinduism and Buddhism.  He does a good job explaining the two religions and comparing them with Christianity, and all without criticism.  If there is any lack, however, it would be that, while he compassionately discusses the similarities and differences that these Eastern religions have to Christianity, nowhere does he really say why we should be Christian instead of something else.  His dealings with &quot;The New Paganism&quot; is excellent, and would be a good beginning point for anyone in dialog with New Agers.  All in all, an excellent book, as are all of Kreeft's works.	2000-11-01
US	52143636	R1RX3J05IUKH8Q	0865435537	806051999	African Spirituality: On Becoming Ancestors	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Very Informative	I wanted to learn something about the traditional beliefs of the Akan people so I ordered this book.  It was very readable and very informative.  What interested me the most was that the author used structures developed by Fowler and Erikson.  Since these two are foundational in the study of western faith and personality development, I felt right at home, even though the destination of the book was halfway around the globe.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in a &quot;first book&quot; about this subject.	2000-10-07
US	52143636	R1X52XPGZEI36L	0898156416	751459257	I Was Never Here and This Never Happened: Tasty Bits and Spicy Tales from My Life	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Entertaining!	I have been trying to learn something about the people and culture of Ghana, and have ordered several books from Amazon.  This was one of them.  Wow, what a book this turned out to be!  The author's style was engaging and she painted such vivid pictures of her childhood in Ghana.  There were folk tales, lyrics of traditional songs, even recipes woven in with her own story.  I am not from Africa, nor am I even Black, but her story and her emotions are so universal that it is easy to identify with much of what she has to say, and sympathize with what is foreign to me.  Some parts had me laughing, some brought a tear, other stories made me gasp in shock.  I highly recommend this book to anyone, although I suppose it will appeal more to women than to men.  This may be one of the best books I have read.	2000-10-07
US	52143636	RDUT3XD3CLOY8	0830718966	757125689	What the Bible is All about	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Best book on the Bible I own!	I have had my copy of this book for several years not and have found it to be instructive and inspiring, comforting and challenging.  I would recommend this for anyone who wants to learn more about Scripture,  regardless of religious affiliation or educational level.	2000-04-16
