US	52167382	R2MNYTNY8L53MG	0764543393	649816791	Betty Crocker Bisquick II Cookbook: Easy, Delicious Dinners, Desserts, Breakfasts and More (Betty Crocker Books)	Books	4	49	50	N	N	Don't Have Time To Cook?  Bisquick II Will Be Your Friend!!	I was given the first Bisquick cookbook as a gift a few years ago and at the time, I thought using 'that stuff' was for novices and/or fast food types.  It took a few successful recipes from that book to knock the food snobbery out of me!<br />When Bisquick II was released, I wasn't sure that I needed an additional cookbook for the product, but I looked at it in a bookstore and then ordered it online. And the good news is: it's as good as the first one!  The first recipe I tried was Vegetable-Cheese Strata.  I modified it by using the Reduced-Fat Bisquick, Egg Beaters and 2% fat Cheddar cheese.  It was wonderful!!  I can only imagine what the 'high test' version must be like!<br />Next up was Glazed Raisin-Cinnamon Biscuits.  This recipe couldn't be any easier to make and each biscuit is only 3 Weight Watchers' points.  It takes about 15 minutes to prepare and 10 minutes to bake, so it is a good choice for people who don't have a lot of time in the morning but are a little tired of cold cereal.<br />Impossibly Easy Vegetable Pie is definitely a keeper.  I suppose if they called it quiche, which is what it is, it might cause some to turn up their noses.  Again, I used the Reduced-Fat Bisquick, Egg Beaters and lower fat Cheddar cheese and the results were scrumptious.<br />Aside from the recipes, I like the many illustrations that appear throughout the book.  I, like most people, enjoy seeing what the finished dish looks like and Bisquick II doesn't disappoint.  Included with each recipe are suggested variations called 'Betty's TIP'.  Very importantly, each recipe includes nutritional information for persons following a Weight Watchers' type diet, diabetics and Low-Carb dieters.  Since most of the recipes use the Original Bisquick mix, you may be able to improve your dietary profile by adjusting the ingredients similar to what I did with the above recipes.<br />In short, this is a good cookbook!  It is a godsend for people who have little time to spend in the kitchenbut don't want to indulge in fast food.  It will pay for itself in no time and your family will love the results.  You may even be able to get the kids interested in trying their hand at cooking with these simple recipes!	2004-06-16
US	52167382	R221IRXQY9VIBM	0972500804	711942043	More, Please! Macaroni & Cheese: 111 Fun and Delicious Dishes to Keep You and Your Family Smiling	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Buy This Book!! Your Kids Will Thank You Over and Over!!!	This book appeals to me on several levels: I teach elementary school students (computers), I like to collect cookbooks, and I love Mac &amp; Cheese. It's hard to classify this book so I will just use one word: Fun!  The initial section of the book called the Easy Recipe Finder is one of the clearest and most extensive that I have ever seen, but the kids will understand it too as it is done with graphics.  Also of interest on pages 6 and 7 is a comparison of the eleven ways to cook Mac &amp; Cheese in which level of difficulty, time, taste, texture, calories and tasting notes are listed.  There are two additional `Comparison' sections that discuss a wide variety of cheeses and how to use them, and a section labeled, `What Goes On Top'.  <BR>The recipes?  Creative, versatile and wonderfully illustrated.  I mentioned the recipe for Mac &amp; Cheese pizza on a usergroup and a nice lady from Virginia emailed me asking for the recipe since she couldn't afford the book, but thought that her two grandchildren would like it.  I sent it to her and she replied that she was sure that it was going to be a hit!<BR>My favorites?  Too early to decide, but the Stuffed Baked Potatoes (did I say that I love potatoes too?) and the Baked Rigatoni are definitely 'keepers'.  I haven't tried the pizza yet, but I think I'll wait to serve that to guests.<BR>This is however, a children's book!  It is replete with illustrations that will appeal to the kids.  It also includes a picture of every recipe.  This is a wonderful opportunity to involve children in making decisions and menu planning.  Cooking is a tremendously powerful teaching/learning experience for young children and this book is a treasure trove of culinary delights.  I showed it to our school librarian and she is going to purchase it for the cooking section.  She is also buying a copy for her mother and for herself, as her kids like Mac &amp; Cheese too!<BR>If this review hasn't convinced you, you can get more information at maccheese.com.  You can order shirts and hats etc.  The authors and the publisher seem assured that this book is a hit...I wholeheartedly agree!	2004-05-04
US	52167382	R2OSEAW6K774Z	0060505346	240809989	Pressure Perfect: Two Hour Taste in Twenty Minutes Using Your Pressure Cooker	Books	5	583	599	N	N	Pressure Cooking 101: Easy, Safe and Oh So Delicious!!!!!	Having purchased and thoroughly enjoyed Cooking Under Pressure and The Pressured Cook, it was a no-brainer to purchase Lorna Sass's latest offering for the pressure cooker.  For persons new to pressure cooking and even for us 'old hands', this may be her best work yet.<BR>The first twenty-two pages are a primer for pressure cooking. Ms. Sass demystifies this cooking genre and guides the reader through what she calls, 'The Language of Pressure Cooking'.  She reassures the novice of the safety of today's pressure cookers and generally provides all the information that the reader will need to be successful.<BR>What I really liked about this book (besides the recipes) are the 'extras': Variations, Transformations and Pressure Points. The variations suggest alternate ingredients, the transformations explain how to modify the recipe to create other dishes and the pressure points provide information, techniques and suggestions specific to different sized cookers. This is particularly useful as electric pressure cookers are now becoming popular and recipes don't always work the same as for stovetop models. <BR>But, you buy a cookbook in order to make great food!  Pressure Perfect won't disappoint.  I admit to being a poultry lover and the pressure cooker can turn out mixed results.  The Chicken Cacciatore recipe was my first choice and it was a keeper!  Subsequent recipes, all highly recommended were Spanish Rice with Chicken and Sausage, Beef, Mushroom and Barley Soup and Chicken Noodle 'Casserole' with Mushroom Sauce.  I'm still experimenting and at least for now, every recipe has been outstanding.  <BR>If your pressure cooker has been in storage, drag it out and dust it off.  Buy this book, read through the first two chapters and get ready for a wonderful culinary experience.  You will be very pleased with your results...I know that I am!	2004-04-18
US	52167382	R2VP69TBUDUYYS	1557883262	329706975	Express Cooking: Make Healthy Meals Fast in Today's Quiet, Safe Pressure Cookers	Books	4	33	33	N	Y	'Express Cooking' = Excellent Results!!!	I love pressure cooking and I have six cookers: an electric, 2 stovetops, a pressure fryer, a microwave cooker and a 21-quart pressure canner.  You can't beat the cooking time and the results are both delicious and nutritious.<BR>Express Cooking addresses the cooking questions of people buying the new electric models (although only 4 and 6 quart models are considered)as well as those of us who still like our stovetop cookers.  The authors discuss the different models and types, operating instructions and safety considerations. They do attempt to allay the fears of those who have heard those 'horror stories' about exploding pressure cookers. Modern models have several safety features that preclude those types of disasters.  I would note however, that there is a popular recipe being circulated for cooking chicken a la KFC by bringing oil up to 400 degrees in the pressure cooker, placing chicken pieces in the oil and bringing the cooker up to pressure and cooking for several minutes. THIS SHOULD NEVER BE ATTEMPTED IN A PRESSURE COOKER!!!  Specially designed pressure fryers can do this safely, but trying this in a home unit is very dangerous.<BR>That warning aside, Express Cooking will help you to produce some delightful meals.  I never considered cooking turkey in a pressure cooker until I read the recipe for Roast Turkey with Gravy.  Now you can have a 5-6lb. turkey breast cooked in less than an hour with a gravy that will please everyone.  Being a lover of poultry, I also count the recipes for Chicken Cacciatore and Chicken Paprikash as 'keepers'. Other sections include making delicious stock(s), meat, seafood, veggies(with a complete time guide for specific vegetables), Grains, Beans, Sauces and of course, desserts. There is a recipe here for Eggnog Cheesecake and that alone is worth the price of the book.<BR>Also included is a listing of the major manufacturers and how to contact them.  It can be very frustrating to purchase a pressure cooker and not be able to find a replacement gasket when the time arises. <BR>Pressure cooking has undergone a renewed interest because it is quick and easy.  It is also nutritious and safe!  This book is a well-written reference and the food is great too!!	2003-11-11
US	52167382	R2GO8NPKTG1A6P	0881505811	832266075	The King Arthur Flour Baker's Companion: The All-Purpose Baking Cookbook A James Beard Award Winner (King Arthur Flour Cookbooks)	Books	5	45	48	N	N	This Will Be Every Baker's 'Companion'!	Having loved the original King Arthur Flour 200th Anniversary Cookbook, I anxiously awaited my copy of the new Baker's Companion.  And a wonderful 'companion' it is!  Novice and expert bakers will enjoy the many tips, descriptions, discussions and suggestions for producing baked goods.  At 640 pages, there are a LOT of them too!  As a New Englander, I loved the chapter on Buckles, Cobblers and Crisps.  I can attest that a warm piece of Blueberry Buckle is just the perfect start to the day.<BR>I was pleased to see that nutritional information is provided for each recipe.  Surprisingly, there are lots of recipes that don't fall in the category of 'diet buster'.  To be sure, there are plenty that do, but a little hedonism once in awhile makes weight watching a little less stressful.<BR>The recipes are simple and straightforward.  These are creations that many of us grew up with or have sampled.  The ingredients are easy to find and the directions are so straightforward that you may want to get the kids to help.  Each chapter begins with some background on the topic and may include special tools or techniques and how to use them.  This is a great gift idea for newlyweds or for the kids who have left the nest.  It answers most, if not all of the questions that arise when you venture into the kitchen to prepare what many people consider the best part of the meal: dessert.  But it is not merely a dessert book.  Breakfast fare, yeast and quick breads, flatbreads and crackers are thoroughly discussed as well as the requisite chapters on cookies, cakes, pies and pastries.<BR>I really appreciate cookbooks that not only provide recipes but instruct, explain and in general, broaden your knowledge of the subject.  The Baker's Companion succeeds on all fronts...it is a great reference.  I like it a lot...you will too!	2003-09-19
US	52167382	R1W5257MN091GB	0609600850	869344345	Pillsbury: Fast and Healthy Cookbook: 350 Easy Recipes for Every Day	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Fast, Healthy, Delicious...and You'll Shed a Few Pounds Too!	I have owned this book for several months now but not until recently have I taken it out and actually used some of the recipes.  Well actually, I have taken up Weight Watchers again and I was looking for some recipes that wouldn't remind me that I was dieting.  I just finished a Garden-Fresh Tuna Salad Sandwich (4 points) that was just packed with flavor with just a scant 3 grams of fat.  The photograph of the sandwich is what caught my eye and that is one of the big selling points of this and other Pillsbury cookbooks.<br />The book begins with a comprehensive discussion called, 'A Guide to Healthier Eating'.  Here you will find information about the soon to be amended Food Pyramid and just what is meant by a 'serving'.  The authors then give the reader the 'Seven Steps to a Healthy Diet' which include suggestions for improving your food intake.  Additionally, there is a glossary of health and food-related terms, some suggestions for using the nutritional information included in the book and some suggested menus combining some of the recipes.<br />Like many cookbooks, Fast and Healthy covers the culinary experience from Appetizers to Desserts.  Aside from the many beautiful photos, the book is replete with many sidebars.  These give the user tips that will enhance not only the recipe, but the expertise of the cook as well. Nutritional information for each recipe is provided and dietary exchanges for diabetics are also included.  Weight Watchers clients like myself can easily calculate the Winning Points from the information provided and most of the recipes will fall into weight loss plans.  For the chocolate lover, who can resist Cocoa Mocha Brownies or Double Chocolate Chip Cookies....two and one point respectively???<br />As you can tell, I like this book.  I am a big fan of Pillsbury's cookbooks and this one is going to be a good friend over the next three months...and well beyond!	2003-07-23
US	52167382	R1AXYKJUFRSI1E	0743245954	460008752	Best of Weight Watchers Magazine: Over 145 Tasty Favorites	Books	5	78	79	N	Y	This is a Diet Plan????  Shhhh....Nobody Will Know!!!	This is my tenth cookbook from Weight Watchers.  To be truthful, I bought my first when I joined the organization. But now I purchase them because I can't believe how they can build such delicious meals for so few calories and points(the way WW calculates the diet plan).  This latest offering contains 10 chapters beginning with 'Starters' and concluding with 'The Year in Chocolate'.  There is a chocolate jelly roll dessert that only has 129 calories and 3 points for an almost 1\\" thick slice.  The Chocolate Crispy bars...you know those gooey bars with marshmallow cream and crispy rice cereal....ONE POINT!!!<br />Desserts aside, I grilled the Southwest Chicken with Pineapple Salsa (5 points) and this almost paid for the book.  Pot au Feu, Chicken Cacciatore and Seafood Gumbo, 3, 4, and 5 points respectively, were just scrumptious.  There is a chapter in the book entitled '5-Point Wonders' and the recipes that I have tried certainly live up to the billing.<br />For those of you who like to spice up your food, there is a chapter dedicated  to doing just that.  Spices add few if any calories, but the flavors explode in your mouth.  I tried the Pork Barbeque (9 points) and this was definitely in keeping with the North Carolina version of bbq'd pork.<br />In short, this is a comprehensive guide to meal planning. Even entertaining ideas are provided.  The allure of Weight Watchers is that you don't have to give up entire food groups to control your weight.  If you stay within the guidelines or daily point values for your given weight, you can choose to eat anything and still lose weight.  This book is a wonderful testament to that strategy and the food will not disappoint you.  You won't have tell anyone that it is 'diet food' although I'm sure that Weight Watchers would be pleased if you did.	2003-07-19
US	52167382	RGER4FMFUJB86	0971172358	463996176	Tried & True Slow Cooker & Casserole: Top 200 Recipes	Books	4	38	39	N	Y	Another Success Story from Allrecipes	Allrecipes.com has provided millions of people with a vast treasury of recipes for almost any occasion.  This is my third cookbook in the allrecipes series and I know it will be my favorite as I am a big fan of the slow cooker and who doesn't like a delicious casserole?<br />The book is a collection of the top 200 slow cooker and casserole recipes as determined by the allrecipes staff.  The recipes were submitted by people like you and me who actually prepare casseroles and slow cooker meals.  They are tested by the staff and modified only if it is deemed necessary.  There are chapters dedicated to main dish meals: beef, pork, poultry, seafood and meatless. Chapters on sides, desserts and brunch are also included. At the beginning of each chapter is a complete listing of the recipes complete with page numbers.  Of particular help is that each listing breaks down the recipes into categories.  For example, the Main Dish-Beef chapter listing is divided into slow cooker roasts, more slow cooker recipes, soups,stews and chiles, and casseroles.  In this way, you know how the recipe will have to be prepared.<br />For cooks new to slow cooking or for novice cooks, the book begins with a section entitled, Cooking Basics.  This is a short but complete discussion of casserole preparation and tips, as well as a primer for slow cooking.<br />Why only four stars?  There is no nutritional information provided so you have to make some decisions regarding calories and fat content.  You also won't see any pictures of the recipes and a five star cookbook should proudly display some of its creations (IMHO).  I did however try the dish pictured on the cover: Aunt Millie's Broccoli Casserole. Kudos to Aunt Millie!!  The slow cooker Chicken Cacciatore couldn't have been easier although I did brown the chicken beforehand in a little olive oil.  <br />I have read through the book and marked the recipes that look 'interesting'.  From the number of tabs, it looks like this one is going to beused a lot.	2003-06-28
US	52167382	R2T6O22K7JXR5H	1580174736	288934877	The New England Clam Shack Cookbook: Favorite Recipes from Clam Shacks, Lobster Pounds & Chowder Houses	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Wherever You Are....You Too Can Enjoy New England!!!	One year before I moved to Maine, I was visiting a friend in Yarmouth and we went for seafood at Harraseeket Lunch and Lobster.  I was hooked!  The meal consisted of 2 lobsters, fries and fresh native corn.  The place was also packed, itself a tribute to the popularity of the food served there.  The fried clams are dipped in batter which the people 'from away' aka tourists, seem to prefer.  You can also purchase fresh shellfish for the home clambake or lobster boil.<br />I am a SCUBA diver and the cove near Two Lights Lobster Shack is a great place at high tide.  And no dive could be complete without a lobster roll from the Lobster Shack.  In fact, the opening and closing dates for this establishment are announced in the local paper...sure signs of the arrival of spring or fall.<br />Clam shacks are 'real' seafood restaurants.  They aren't fancy but the food is outstanding.  Brooke Dojny has captured the essence of this New England cuisine and provides a wonderful insight to this uniquely Yankee culinary tradition.  Lest you think that this book is only about seafood, there are chapters about chicken, sides and desserts.  After all, what's a seafood dinner without a good cole slaw?<br />Ms. Dojny also covers in detail the differences and preferences of various regions within New England.  For instance, Maine folks prefer chowder made with soft-shell clams and milk(with a little cream for a thicker base) while in Massachusetts, hard-shell clams called quahogs are used along with milk and flour for thickening.  Southern New England features clear or red chowders with hard-shell clams and tomatoes.  Mainers consider it heresy to serve 'that red stuff' and you won't find it unless you make it yourself.  <br />Chowders aside, the book is easy to read and a wealth of information about New England.  Did I say that the recipes are great too?  There is even a recipe for Whoopie Pies!!  No cook in this region is without a recipe for them and if you haven't tried one, buy thebook or stop by Harraseeket Lunch and Lobster for a scrumptious treat!<br />In short, buy the book!  That way you won't have to wait until spring to enjoy this delicious fare.	2003-06-28
US	52167382	R1GVG5BNHPX6VG	1558322469	794143717	The Great Big Burger Book: 100 New and Classic Recipes for Mouthwatering Burgers Every Day Every Way (Non)	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Tired of the Same Old Burgers?  You'll Love This Book!!	Although I have eaten my share of burgers, I have always thought of them as boring.  You grill them, slap on a slice of cheese, a tomato slice, whatever sauce you like and eat on a soft and often tasteless bun.<br />Well....along comes The Great Big Burger Book and with it a whole new dimension on just what constitutes a burger.  Certainly there are the traditional meat (beef, pork, veal and even lamb) burgers, but my interest was piqued by the chapter entitled: Burgers That Take Flight: Chicken, Turkey and Duck. Using ground poultry allows you to cut the fat content of a burger and the recipes don't cut the taste and flavor.  I have always enjoyed Chicken Marsala and when I saw the recipe for Chicken Marsala Burgers, I immediately tried it.  Your family and guests, not to mention yourself will really like that one.  The photo of a Bolognese Turkey Burger with Sun-Dried Tomatoes and Green Olives looks delicious, and I'm happy to report that it also tastes as good as it looks.<br />But the book doesn't stop there.  There is an entire chapter dedicated to burgers made with fish and shell fish.  I haven't tried them yet as the weather here in Maine has been just awful this spring, and this type of burger should be cooked outdoors.  But there are recipes for lobster and scallop burgers and since I love both, I plan to try them as soon as Mother Nature cooperates.<br />For vegetarians, there are recipes using portobello mushrooms,falafel, quinoa, tofu, eggplant and chickpeas, to mention a few.  That chapter fittingly is entitled: Redefining the Burger.<br />Admittedly, there are ingredients that may be unfamiliar to the reader.  For those people (and I am one), there is a glossary of ingredients and an ingredient source list which tells you where you can find the products that may not be available in your area.<br />This is a wonderful resource for entertaining.  Your guests will be amazed by your culinary expertise when you serve them a healthy burger packed with new flavors.  Your backyard menus will never be the same or 'boring' anymore!	2003-06-14
US	52167382	R21LWS3L350654	0609608622	21810344	Pillsbury Doughboy Slow Cooker Recipes	Books	5	52	52	N	N	Pillsbury + Slow Cooker = YUMM!	I have a cookbook collection that exceeds five hundred titles. Ten of my books are from Pillsbury and I have never been disappointed.  When I received a card from Pillsbury announcing the newest in their collection, I immediately ordered it.<br />Pillsbury and the slow cooker are a great match.  The recipes are easy to put together with ingredients that you probably have on hand or are readily available, and what could be easier than cooking in a slow cooker?  I have already prepared several of the recipes and I am looking forward to trying more of them.  The Turkey and Bacon Wild Rice Casserole was a big hit.  Hearty Steak and Tater Soup brought ooh's and aah's at work too.  The slow cooker is particularly good with lean cuts of beef.  For this, try Beef Brisket with Cranberry Gravy or Carmelized Onion Pot Roast.  Actually try them BOTH as they are scrumptious!<br />For readers new to using a slow cooker, Pillsbury shares ten 'secrets' for using the appliance successfully.  There are five sections in the book covering main dishes, poultry, soups, stews and chiles, sandwiches and vegetables and side dishes.  There are 140 recipes in total and many have illustrations.  Each recipe is accompanied by Nutritional Information and a sidebar offering tips and serving suggestions.<br />Although a bit smaller than some of the other books in the collection, the Pillsbury Doughboy Slow Cooker Recipes is outstanding in quality.  It's a big hit in my kitchen...it will be one of your favorites as well!!	2003-05-04
US	52167382	R2EKITQIUMMRR8	0609603779	406084049	Pillsbury: The Best of Classic Cookbooks	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Another Classic From Pillsbury	I have subscribed to Pillsbury's Classic Cookbooks since 1994.  Suffice it to say that I am a big fan of this series and I have kept every issue with the exception of the ones that were lost. When I got a card from Pillsbury announcing the publication of  this collection of favorites from the magazines, I ordered it immediately.<br />Several things that make the Pillsbury books and this one in particular, great, are: 1.  The recipes don't have a lot of ingredients or things that aren't readily available, 2. They appeal to a lot of cooking tastes, and 3. They are absolutely delicious.  I love soup and the Harvest Chicken Noodle Soup and the Light Chicken-Wild Rice Soups are both favorites.  The Poultry section, another favorite, provides delights such as Easy Jerk Chicken, Honey Mustard Chicken, and a scrumptious Twenty-Garlic Chicken Dinner.<br />As for the layout of the book, you will be pleased.  Nutritional information is provided for each recipe so people watching calories or fat intake will know if the recipe fits their plan.  For many recipes, there are 'Cook's Notes' which offer suggestions for attaining the best results.  The photos, and there are many, will make you salivate.  There is even a special section at the end entitled Holiday Specialties, and this provides the reader with recipes for salads, appetizers, side dishes, main courses and desserts that will work for a variety of holiday traditions.<br />Bottom line:  Buy the book!  It will be a keeper and you'll love the results.	2003-05-03
US	52167382	R2OK700NCY7POZ	0767900448	984596779	50 Best Stuffings and Dressings (365 Ways Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not Your Grandmother's Stuffing (Dressing).....	The turkey may be the centerpiece of the Thanksgiving table but we all know that the stuffing (we always called it dressing)is the litmus test of the the entire dinner.  Rick Rodgers, known for his turkey day bible, Thanksgiving 101, showcases stuffing(dressing) and gives us a regional breakdown.<br />I have long read about the delicacy of cornbread stuffing, a decidely Southern version of stuffing/dressing.  So in my pursuit of a knowledge of American culinary history, I made Mason-Dixon Cornbread Dressing with Bacon and Pecans.  WOW!  This was a perfect match for my deep fried turkey.  This Yankee surrenders to the delicacy of our Southern cuisine.  My friends and neighbors were at first skeptical of that pot of oil boiling away in the backyard, but when they got a taste of the meat and a sample of the cornbread stuffing, they are now believers that Southern cuisine is exquisite.<br />But this book is not a showcase of Southern cuisine.  It is Greek, Italian, Mexican, Chinese, Japanese, Cajun and Southwestern cuisine as well.  You won't have to limit your stuffing/dressing meals to Thanksgiving anymore.  These are delightful side dishes to accompany any meal.<br />You will like this book. Rick Rodgers is the Thanksgiving guru and this will be a welcome addition to your library.  It makes a nice gift for the first-time cook too!	2003-04-29
US	52167382	RULD2P03YO1T8	0762413344	705082285	The Holly Clegg Trim & Terrific Cookbook: More Than 500 Fast, Easy, And Healthy Recipes	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Cuts the fat....Adds the flavor	If you are going on a diet or just looking to cut down on fat and calories, this is your book.  It doesn't lecture you on your lifestyle or extol the virtues of one diet plan vs another.  It simply provides an exhaustive collection of recipes that are low in fat and calories.<br />Lest you think that low fat = low flavor, not in the least. Spices and herbs are pretty much devoid of fat calories.  It is the combination of low fat cuts of meat and/or veggies and seasonings that make this a culinary masterpiece.  Ms. Clegg goes beyond that however, and shows us how to use the recipes for lunches, dinners and special occasions. Cooking terms, a list of staples, tips and tricks and basic principles of cooking are included as well. Each recipe will include either a 'Quick Tip' or a 'Food Fact'.  <br />From Appetizers to Desserts and Pies, you will have a new repertoire of delightfully delicious and healthy recipes from which to choose.  This is a bible for healthy and delicious cooking.  The bonus is that you don't have to tell anyone that they are eating 'diet' food.  The recipes here are a celebration of tasty and healthy.  You will be celebrated likewise for your results.	2003-04-25
US	52167382	R2QHEY4J28CXG	0684850346	204068985	50 Chowders	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The First and Last Word on Chowders!!	Growing up in the Northeast and living in Maine for the last 17 years, I have a distinct love of 'chowdah'.  There is nothing better than a good fish or clam chowder.  That being said...I'll leave the quahogs (they're like chewing on rubber..littleneck clams are better)to the Massachusetts and Rhode Island folks and as for that 'red stuff', NOT on my table!<br />Jasper White has written a wonderful tribute to that delicacy we know as chowder.  You don't have to live on the ocean to make it and you certainly don't have to use seafood either.  When I lived in Vermont, I used to make a killer Corn Chowder that was rich and tasty.  I even got my mother to try it (She had a particular aversion to what she called 'white sauce' soup).  It became a traditional Christmas Eve fare and Mom was the cook.<br />That aside, this book is replete with absolutely fabulous recipes!  Imagine a Mushroom and Leek Chowder or Farmer's Chicken Chowder.  Mr. White gives you the basics of building a chowder.  The recipes are great but you are free to experiment with ingredients and spices that match your culinary tastes.  Chowder is decidely a comfort food and this is the definitive book on this traditional American staple.	2003-04-25
US	52167382	R3MQ0F4ZG175BQ	1558321101	124248950	The Gas Grill Gourmet: Great Grilled Food for Everyday Meals and Fantastic Feasts	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Search No Further...This is THE Book for Gas Grilling!!!	I have over five hundred cookbooks in my collection and fifty of these are dedicated to barbeque, grilling and smoke cooking. The Gas Grill Gourmet was one of my earliest purchases and remains my favorite reference for gas grilling.  To be sure, it isn't fancy or larded with a lot of pictures (In fact there are NONE)but it is an indispensable source of information, tips, techniques and simply delicious recipes. It is the best discussion of indirect cooking that I have come across.<br />What I particularly like is that the recipes are for food that most of us will find easy to prepare, with ingredients that we have on the shelf or are readily available at the supermarket. You are also given a taste of a wide variety of grilling cuisines. In the poultry section alone, French, Jamaican, Indian, Southwestern, Italian, Mexican and Asian cuisines are represented with recipes that you will find both easy to prepare and delicious on the palate.<br />At the beginning of each section, Mr. Sinnes provides the reader with tips and suggestions to maximize your grilling experience. The recipes are listed at the beginning of the section and include the page numbers. You will particularly find the Introduction helpful as the author thoroughly discusses what you should look for in a gas grill, grilling techniques, safety and necessary accessories.<br />In short, whether you be novice or expert, this book will be a welcome addition to your grilling experience.  It won't disappoint and your family and guests will be most impressed and will come back repeatedly.	2003-04-25
US	52167382	RZ7W089CDAU70	0375757007	150362445	Macaroni & Cheese: 52 Recipes from Simple to Sublime	Books	4	23	23	N	Y	Mac & Cheese!?!? Not in the 'Blue Box' Anymore!!	Is there any food dish that is more American than Macaroni and Cheese? Many of us, myself included, grew up with the 'blue box' and as our tastes developed, so did our disdain for this dish. I tended to equate 'Mac & Cheese' with that meat product that comes in the blue can.<br />But Joan Schwartz has exploded the low-brow image of America's comfort food. This book is incredible! There are so many varieties of this dish from the 'classic' dishes to international flavors to what Ms. Schwartz calls 'Mac and Cheese Today'. And don't think that the cheese is that orange stuff. Swiss, Fontina, Mascarpone, Feta and Mozzarella are just a few of the varieties that you will use in your recipes. And just when you thought that the cheeses were a stretch, recipes with lobster, prosciutto, artichoke hearts, portabello and crimini mushrooms and chiles and chipotle peppers to mention a few, will delight your tastes.<br />I'll admit that I bought this book with a great deal of skepticism. A few bites of the 'Chunks of Lobster Swimming in Cheesy Macaroni' dispelled my reservations. Other favorites include 'Farfalle with Fontina, Tasso Ham and Baby Spinach' and Mac and Smoked Cheddar with Ham and Chipotles'. Imagine the look on guests' faces when you announce that you are serving them Mac and Cheese and their surprise when you serve a dish approaching haute cuisine. <br />Let's admit it...we liked the 'blue box' growing up and most of us are ashamed to reveal our love of this American staple. Now we can proudly bring this long demeaned dish back to the table and rekindle our fondness for it. Buy the book....it's a keeper!	2003-04-25
US	52167382	R1S3ZY2ZZX80CF	0743245946	447721260	Weight Watchers Take-Out Tonight!: 150+ Restaurant Favorites to Make at Home--All Recipes With POINTS Value of 8 or Less	Books	5	197	200	N	Y	Healthy Restaurant Favorites and They Taste Great Too!!!	This may be the best book published under the Weight Watchers' umbrella.  It is a wonderful collection of favorite recipes from eight culinary genres.  Chinese, Mexican, Indian, Thai, Italian, Greek, Japanese and Deli cuisine is featured.  I love food (that's my problem) and delights such as General Tso's Chicken, Chicken Saltimbocca, Spanakopita, Shrimp Pad Thai and Moo Goo Gai Pan are now healthy, tasty and guiltless.  You will not believe that these recipes are all 8 points or less.  What is even more remarkable is that the family or guests will not suspect that these recipes came from Weight Watchers.  This is a great leap forward for Weight Watchers as it makes the most popular restaurant meals not only available in your home, but healthy and delicious.<br />The book, unlike some earlier Weight Watchers' cookbooks, is very well laid out.  The chapters are color coded and the index is arranged by cooking cuisine, with the recipes listed alphabetically.  There are many beautiful illustrations as well. Many of the recipes come with a box called Clever Cook's Tips that give the user some useful suggestions, techniques and recipe substitutions.<br />You don't have to be a Weight Watchers' client to appreciate this book.  The recipes are just good, dieting or not!  Buy this one...you won't be disappointed.	2003-04-20
US	52167382	R3EQ0OYK6YXR77	1558322000	715547147	The Pressure Cooker Gourmet: 225 Recipes for Great-Tasting, Long-Simmered Flavors in Just Minutes	Books	5	81	83	N	N	Old World Flavor in a Fraction of the Time!!!	The pressure cooker is making a comeback after years of disfavor.  The old jiggle top units that could be opened and could cause severe burns are pretty much a thing of the past.  Coincidentally, as people have less time to spend in the kitchen, the pressure cooker has come back to center stage.  For people still a little leery of using one, this book will allay your fears. Victoria Wise discusses thoroughly the hows, the do's and dont's and generally instructs the reader in the proper and successful use of this versatile appliance.<br />The Pressure Cooker Gourmet includes recipes for soups, meat, poultry, fish, grains, vegetables, legumes, sauces and of course desserts.  Although there are photographs of the finished recipes, the reader will delight in the many tips, subtitutions and suggestions that accompany many of the recipes.  You will also appreciate the index of recipes with page numbers, that appear at the beginning of each chapter.<br />Being a poultry fan, I loved the Coq au Vin.  The wine sauce was thicker than I ever remember from another method and the blend of herbs and spices was intensified by the increased pressure.<br />And if you can't resist a moist and rich cheesecake, try the Cheesecake with Mascarpone Cheese in Chocolate Cookie Crust.  I had never tried Mascarpone (a very creamy cream cheese) and it, combined with the moist heat of a pressure cooker, was sinfully delicious.<br />I'm still experimenting with the recipes and there are a lot of them!  It takes some 'old time' recipes and applies 21st century flavors and technology to help rekindle our culinary past.  As you might imagine, I love this book and you will too!  Buy it!!	2003-03-15
US	52167382	R2BYZ25W0T1ZQK	0936184590	275287222	Here In America's Test Kitchen: All New Recipes, Quick Tips, Equipment Ratings, Food Tastings, and Science Experiments from the Hit Public Television Show	Books	5	22	22	N	N	They've Done It Again!!	This is the ninth book that I have purchased from the editors of Cook's Illustrated.  I have been a fan of the PBS series, America's Test Kitchen, but the 2003 shows have yet to air here and the show is produced in Boston.  With the first book in the series, I used to follow along with the television episode that corresponded to the recipe(s) in the book.<br />For the uninitiated, Cook's Illustrated is the Consumer Reports of the kitchen.  Products and food brands are tested and evaluated.  Each recipe is prepared in a variety of ways until a concensus is reached and the 'winning' recipe is published.  If you follow the simple directions, you get a scrumptious result.  For novice and expert alike, this is an invaluable resource.  More than a mere cookbook, Here in America's Test Kitchen is a course in culinary arts and science.  I love to read through it and learn the how's and why's of food preparation.<br />As for the recipes themselves, I loved the Stovetop Macaroni and Cheese.  I found it amusing that in the evaluation of cheddar cheeses, the 'experts' displayed a northeastern proclivity toward white cheese and a disdain for annato-colored (orange) cheese.  The Beef Burgundy recipe was the best I have ever tasted.  And as an earlier reviewer noted, there is a party theme in this book.  Party foods, bistro favorites, chili and holiday entertaining recipes are evidence that the Cook's folks like to party too!<br />I have given this book as a gift and the recipients have become converts to the Cook's Illustrated series.  Even if you haven't seen the television show, buy this book anyway.  It will win many kudos for you from family and friends.	2003-03-15
US	52167382	RIBFWU7LMOD0A	1558322329	767374377	The Ultimate Rotisserie Cookbook: 300 Mouthwatering Recipes for Making the Most of Your Rotisserie Oven	Books	5	69	72	N	N	I've Been Waiting For This Book For Years!!!!	Diane Phillips is truly amazing!  In 'The Soup Mix Gourmet', she elevated the humble and oft-maligned canned and/or dried soup to haute cuisine. She's done it again with 'The Ultimate Rotisserie Cookbook'.  This appliance has exploded onto the kitchen scene and is now, thanks to Ron Popeil and George Foreman, widely used in American homes.<br />Phillips cites dry rubs as 'part and parcel of what makes delicious rotisserie and grilled food'.  In the chapter, 'A Whole Lot of Saucin' Going On', she delights us with recipes for not only rubs, but marinades, salsas, pesto, and a wide variety of finishing sauces.  The Fiesta Rub combining chili powder, cumin and oregano made a meal of chicken breasts exploding with flavor.  There are over 50 pages in this chapter and this alone will allow you to experiment with new and old flavors and tastes.<br />Additionally, Ms. Phillips discusses poultry, beef, lamb, pork and vegetables.  Each chapter begins with a listing of the recipes and the appropriate page number.  Also included are spice and sauce 'no brainers', a list of spices and sauces that complement the particular meat or vegetable.  Cooking times for doneness are particularly helpful in the meat chapters.<br />Just when you think you have tried almost everything in the rotisserie, comes the chapter entitled, 'Hot and Sweet'.  Fruit is showcased here and the Rotisserie Caramel Apples will have the kids screaming for more!  The book concludes with a collection of side dishes to accompany your rotisserie meal. Here you will find baked beans, potato and rice dishes and some salad suggestions, to mention only a few.<br />As you can probably tell, I love this book!  I have owned  a Showtime Rotisserie for over five years and there is nothing to compare to the simplicity of use and the scrumptious results.  Dianne Phillips has increased the possibilities for this appliance dramatically AND deliciously.  A book on this subject is long overdue as it is easy to get tired of wholechickens.  If you are a rotisserie user or considering the purchase of one, this book is a 'must buy'.	2002-10-12
US	52167382	R27J8RLC9HXPWN	0966911806	931162631	Rotisserie & BBQ Recipe Collection	Books	4	57	57	N	N	Lots of Yummy Ways to 'Set It and Forget It'!!!	O.K. who hasn't seen the infomercial for Ron Popeil's Showtime Rotisserie & Barbeque?  We all know how to roast a whole chicken, a prime rib roast, ribs and various sizes of turkey, depending on your model.  The Showtime rotisserie has been hugely successful and is found in many American homes.<br />But let's face it, whole chickens can be boring and who can afford to roast prime rib more than a few times yearly?  Anticipating this, Ron Popeil has offered us this book as a companion to his product.  I found the book on the ronco.com website and was a little hesitant as the price tag was steep for a paperback.  However, if the rotisserie has changed the way you cook, this book will change the way you use the rotisserie.<br />There are sections for sauces, marinades and rubs.  These alone will allow you to vary your meals and experiment with new flavors.  The book covers appetizers, various meats and seafood, vegetables and desserts. Even chapters using the rotisserie to create salads and wraps are included to broaden your use of the Showtime.  Many of the recipes incorporate the sauces, marinades and rub recipes, which are easily prepared with readily available ingredients.<br />If you love your Showtime rotisserie, then this will be a welcome addition.  The book takes 'Set It and Forget It' to a new level of flavor and variety.	2002-10-12
US	52167382	R16AY4U8M9W7LF	1561483796	418729823	Fix-it and Forget it Recipes for Entertaining: Slow Cooker Favorites for All the Year Round	Books	4	40	43	N	N	Company or the Family....You Fix-It...They Won't Forget-It!!	Phyllis and Dawn have done it again!  As if their first slow cooker digest, Fix-It and Forget It Cookbook didn't take the cooking world by storm, this is the perfect follow-up to that work.  The recipes are a collection of favorites from cooks all over the country and who submits a recipe that doesn't already have a host of fans?  The book is divided into Main Course(mostly meat),Soups, Vegetables, Sweets, and 'The Extras'(appetizers, breakfast and beverages) and contains an easy to read index with a larger type size, which is greatly appreciated.<br />Although the title suggests that this is a book for entertaining, don't be put off.  The recipes are simple, the ingredients are readily available and are certainly suitable for serving to the family.  I'm fairly certain that most of the contributors serve these offerings to their family more often than to guests.  But the great thing is that you know that you can grab this book whenever you need something special and delicious for company.<br />In the past year I have rediscovered the slow cooker.  Like many others, I had relegated my old crock pot to the attic as it was no longer 'cool'.  But having little time to cook and with the publishing of several new cookbooks on the subject, I have now purchased several sizes of slow cookers.  Let's face it, you can't beat it for simplicity and the results are more often than not, spectacular.  I am a big fan of homemade soups and stews and nothing turns them out better than a slow cooker.<br />In summary...buy this book!  If you haven't purchased the earlier book by the authors, buy it too!!!  You are guaranteed to have meals that even the pickiest eater will love, and you'll be armed with a vast repertoire of entertaining ideas.  And oh yes, the family will love it too!!!	2002-10-02
US	52167382	R3QQ72MJSFHIH	0609602845	940008410	Pillsbury Complete Cookbook: Recipes from America's Most-Trusted Kitchens	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Pillsbury Scores BIG With This One!!	This is one of those cookbooks that rates a 'Must Have' tag. It is comprehensive, extremely well indexed, and will meet the needs of the most or least experienced cook.  The recipes are easy to follow and the ingredient list is readily available, if not already on the shelf or in the pantry. <BR>I needed a quick recipe to take to a meeting where I was one of those responsible for refreshments.  I chose the Fresh Apple Coffee Cake.  You have to prepare the Refrigerated Coffee Cake Dough beforehand for this recipe.  Well, it turned out beautifully.  The dough rose as specified and the texture was moist and cake-like.  Suffice it to say, there was nothing left in the pan.  I have also made several of the soups, including Cheddar Cheese and Vegetable Beef with Barley.  These recipes are 'keepers' and will work well as a lunch serving for those of you who, like me, don't like to take sandwiches to work.<BR>In addition to the recipes, the book contains nutritional information and dietary exchanges.  There are many illustrations although you won't find a picture of every recipe.  Of particular help are the many 'Cook's Notes', replete with suggestions and techniques, that appear throughout the book.<BR>I think you will use this book repeatedly.  It makes a great addition to your library and would be well received as a gift.	2002-09-22
US	52167382	R2H1H9SXTRF9FL	1558322248	798507339	Apple Pie Perfect: 100 Delicious and Decidedly Different Recipes for America's Favorite Pie	Books	5	8	8	N	N	I Can't Wait For Apple Season!!	Why would you buy a one item cookbook?  Believe me, this book will delight every apple lover and convert those who disdain this juicy fruit.  Beginning with the crust recipes, Ken Haedrich won me over.  I recall my childhood days in Vermont when warm apple pie was served with Cabot cheddar cheese. Pie a la mode was for the tourists.  Well, I tried the Cheddar Cheese Crust and all I can say is...YUMMMM!  As I perused the recipes, I kept returning to Apple Cheesecake Pie and I finally succumbed. What I was looking for was a simple recipe for a dessert to take to a party or to serve to guests.  I must confess that the first time I made this, I did neither.  I kept it ALL for myself!!  <BR>My hedonism aside, this is a keeper!  The directions are simple and most of the recipes have only a few ingredients.  The crust recipes alone more than justify the price.  But you will keep coming back...I know I will...and do!	2002-09-05
US	52167382	RXWHBRNR6RMCE	0399525548	434245363	Healthy Exchanges Cookbook	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Simple to Prepare and Oh How Tasty The Results!	I bought this book a few years ago after seeing Joanna demonstrate some of the recipes on a shopping network.  I was impressed with the simplicity of the recipes and the author's promise that every ingredient could be found in her small town supermarket.  To say that I haven't been disappointed is an understatement.  This is the book I reach for when I need something quick to prepare but tasty nevertheless.  I have grown my collection of Joanna Lund books to eight, and my experience with this first volume is the primary reason for the expansion.<br />Give this book a try.  Your family will be pleased and so will you.	2002-09-01
US	52167382	R1WFH1CGU0EZA4	157954438X	677429858	Lose Weight the Smart Low-Carb Way: 200 High-Flavor Recipes and a 7-Step Plan to Stay Slim Forever (Prevention Health Cooking)	Books	4	55	58	N	N	Low Carbohydrate Diets Are Boring......Not Anymore!!!!!	While still villified by some in the medical community and particularly by the low fat gurus, low carbohydrate diets are proving to be successful and healthy.  The problem for me, as one who has used the Atkins' guidelines is that low carbohydrate diets are BORING!!  To maintain a state of ketosis requires a daily carbohydrate intake of between 20-30 grams. The list of Atkins' approved foods is limited at best.  Certainly, it is great to be able to eat all of the meat and eggs that you want, but let's face it, bacon and eggs for breakfast gets old very quickly.  Green veggies are great and low in carbohydrates, but I love carrots and it is a real sacrifice to give up all root vegetables. Fruit too, is pretty much disdained by Atkins and this too, adds to the tedium of the dietary repertoire. <br />So along comes 'Lose Weight the Smart Low-Carb Way', which articulates a seven step approach to losing weight. To my absolute delight, the first two steps say to eat more grains and eat more veggies and fruit.  To be sure, the remaining steps focus on sensible choices (lean meats, smaller portions, avoiding 'trigger' foods)and all of a sudden, what for me has been a short-term diet is now a reasonable and easy-to-maintain lifestyle.  By the time you have reached page 79,(and you might want to re-read pp. 1-79), you will have a thorough understanding of why a low-carb diet works, how to get started, and how to make the program work for your lifestyle and tastes. The authors will give you lots of tips for food selection and substitution.<br />The bulk of this book is dedicated to cooking low carbohydrate meals.  You may note that the recipes employ a liberal use of spices and herbs to enhance the flavor.  This of course allows you to tailor the dish to suit your tastes.  Most of the ingredients are readily available and preparation time is minimal. Nutritional information is provided with each recipe and for diabetics, diet exchanges are also itemized.  Many beautiful photosof recipes are included and there are success stories printed throughout.  The index is very well laid out and you will find it easy to use.<br />Overall, I like this book.  There are some recipes that are high in carbohydrates and should be used sparingly, but for the most part, this is a book that will help you to shift your current eating habits to a healthy low-carbohydrate lifestyle.  I don't think of this as a 'diet' anymore....it tastes too good!!!	2002-09-01
US	52167382	R2SDTH9D7WRS7V	0399525548	434245363	Healthy Exchanges Cookbook	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Simple to Prepare and Oh How Tasty The Results!	I bought this book a few years ago after seeing Joanna demonstrate some of the recipes on a shopping network.  I was impressed with the simplicity of the recipes and the author's promise that every ingredient could be found in her small town supermarket.  To say that I haven't been disappointed is an understatement.  This is the book I reach for when I need something quick to prepare but tasty nevertheless.  I have grown my collection of Joanna Lund books to eight, and my experience with this first volume is the primary reason for the expansion.<br />Give this book a try.  Your family will be pleased and so will you.	2002-09-01
US	52167382	RCRK84PV6RU14	0688092586	369229108	The Mr. Food Cookbook	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Serve Death By Chocolate.....They'll Love Ya!!!	I was kind of a food snob until I saw Mr. Food hawking this book on a shopping network.  I phoned in my order and upon receiving this collection, I decided to try some of the recipes.  My parents came for a visit one weekend and I treated them to Death By Chocolate.  Well, by the time they returned home, they had purchased both this book and a trifle dish for that dessert! At work, the Applesauce 'n Spice Bread and Blueberry Crisp were particular favorites.  A colleague and I are catering a luncheon on the first day of school for our staff and Death By Chocolate is on the menu.  The real beauty of the book is its simplicity.  The recipes have few ingredients, all readily available and take little time to prepare. And the book is not just about dessert.  Sections on appetizers, soups, poultry, meat, fish, veggies and bread are also included.  I particularly loved the Chicken Breast Scampi.  If you love simplicity and flavor, not to mention the many compliments that will follow each recipe, give this book a try.	2002-08-18
US	52167382	RLQ9GLPLZY6IP	0875963102	955651087	Prevention's the Healthy Cook: The Ultimate Kitchen Guide to Great Low-Fat Food : Featuring 450 Homestyle Recipes and Hundreds of Time-Saving Tips	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Treasury of Tips, Charts and Yummy Recipes!	This is a great reference for people wanting to cook a little healthier.  There are a host of suggestions on how to convert existing recipes to a lower fat menu and there are many illustrations to support the many tips and charts.  You will learn how to substitute lower fat ingredients for butter and oil without compromising the taste of your food. The authors discuss the many types of rice, flour, grains, herbs, spices etc. and guide you in selecting the appropriate one for your particular needs. In short, this book is a cooking class in healthy living. Buy this one...you will use it often!<br />P.S.  Weight Watchers' clients will particularly like this book.  The nutritional information necessary for calculating Winning Points is included with every recipe and you will have a huge number of dishes that you may prepare within your program.	2002-07-02
US	52167382	R2TP3SAASE403A	0028633504	855042729	Weight Watchers Simply the Best: 250 Prize-Winning Family Recipes	Books	5	36	38	N	N	So Good...No One Need Know that the Recipes Are Healthy!!!	Having joined Weight Watchers a few years ago, I purchased this book at a local bookstore.  The first recipe I tried was Mushroom Barley Soup. That dish alone is worth the price of the book.  As I live alone, I prepare a recipe, divide it into portions, seal each in a vacuum seal bag and freeze them for later use.  I especially love the Chicken Cacciatore, Chicken Marsala, and Oven Beef Stew. It was terribly hot here today so I prepared a Tuna-Macaroni Salad.  Yumm...and for five points, the servings are huge!  And as a quick dessert, may I recommend the Brownie Pie. It takes minutes to prepare and has only two points a serving. <BR>As the title of the review suggests, this book will work for everyone, dieting or not.  Your family will love the recipes and you won't have to tell them that the food is low fat and healthy. I have over 500 cookbooks and this is one of my favorites.  It will be one of yours too!	2002-07-02
US	52167382	R34RKFZ3KZS76F	0764566016	313251804	Weight Watchers Simply the Best All American: Over 250 Regional Favorites from Around the Country	Books	2	26	27	N	Y	Takes More Time to Find the Recipes Than to Cook Them!!	I have a collection of seven books from Weight Watchers and this was a disappointment.  The table of contents breaks the recipes down by US region.  However, there are NO PAGE NUMBERS anywhere in that listing.  There are also no tabs or distinctions between sections so the user has to flip through the pages to find where one section ends and another begins.  When you do find the beginning of a section, the recipe titles are listed but again, no page numbers are supplied! These faults aside, the recipes are first rate.  I loved the Vermont Cheddar Soup as it reminded me of growing up in the Green Mountain State. <BR>If you don't mind taking the time to peruse the book thoroughly, you will like what you find.  However, I would recommend an earlier book, Simply the Best.  It is well illustrated, simple to use and the recipe collection is outstanding.	2002-07-02
US	52167382	R2616J5M05Z6E5	1561483176	246790704	Fix-It and Forget-It Cookbook	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	So Easy and Yet SOOOO Good!!!	An earlier review criticized this book as a 'Cattle Call for Recipes'.  My response is: So What!!  The book is a collection of favorite recipes submitted by people like you and me who actually use a slow cooker.  I like 'digest cookbooks' because the recipes represent dishes that someone has tried and found to be so successful, that they will submit them for others to enjoy.  This book fits well into that category.  There are lots of recipes and many are similar, but each has a little twist that produces a different flavor.  What a perfect gift to accompany a new slow cooker!  The recipes will work beautifully for anyone and especially for people who hate to cook or are new to the kitchen.  From snacks to desserts, you will find something that will delight you, your family or your guests.	2002-04-07
US	52167382	R2NVRDJEJ8T6FL	0836269934	209382892	Is It Soup Yet? A Cookbook for Soup Lovers	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Easy, Light and Oh SOOOO Tasty!!!	As I write this, there is a pot of Hamburger Soup and a pot of Broccoli Cheddar Cheese Soup simmering on the stove.  Literally, the most difficult step in making the Hamburger Soup was browning the meat.  I usually do most of my cooking on weekends so that I don't have to come home from work and start cooking a dinner meal.  But these recipes are so easy and quick that you can easily put them together in minutes...  I also appreciate that the recipes reflect the trend to use ingredients containing low or no-fat.  I used skim milk in making the Broccoli Cheddar Cheese soup with the same amount of flour to make a roux, and it turned out beautifully. This is a book that belongs on a coffee table as the illustrations, similar to those found in a children's book, are striking.<br />Soup is a great comfort food and this book won't disappoint.  This will make a great gift for novice or experienced cooks.	2002-03-10
US	52167382	R30V3K5Z24GY9L	0754808696	281098551	One-Pot & Clay Pot Cookbook	Books	4	47	47	N	Y	Beautifully Illustrated for European Cuisine	I purchased this book because I was looking for some recipes and tips for using my Romertopf clay cooker.   The book does a thorough job of discussing the various types and techniques for cooking with glazed and unglazed clay pots, and examines other one-pot techniques (pan-frying, stir-frying pot-roasting)as well. But the real beauty of this book is the wealth of illustrations.  Each recipe not only includes a picture of the finished dish, but several pictures showing the 'how to' of the recipe directions.  The recipes are divided into clearly numbered steps again accompanied most of the time by an illustration.<BR>I would have given this book five stars but for the fact that the book is designed primarily for European cooks and includes many recipes for dishes not particularly common in American kitchens.  There are many dishes using lamb and the spices and the combination of ingredients have a decidedly European feel. That is not intended to be a negative comment as I intend to expand my culinary experience by trying some of the recipes that I have never tasted.  But for Americans who like more traditional fare and are like me, looking to learn more about cooking with a clay pot, this book may be a disappointment.	2002-02-19
US	52167382	R3GWOSY468YLOQ	0806944439	302144820	The Ultimate Slow Cooker Cookbook: Flavorful One-Pot Recipes for Your Crockery Pot	Books	2	55	56	N	N	'Ultimate' is a gross overstatement!!	I have tried two recipes from this book and liked the results of neither.  The Asian Stir-Fry Stew was no substitute for a stir fried dish and a waste of good scallops. The Hearty Corn Chowder with Peas looked nothing like the accompanying photo and tasted so bad, that it went from the crock pot directly to the garbage disposal. The book has many beautiful illustrations but I am reluctant to waste good ingredients (and money) on a book that is long on promise, touting itself as the 'ultimate', but short on results. For people wanting to create a delicious meal with a short preparation time, 'Crock-It' is a better choice.  For those of you who have the time to create more gourmet meals with your slow cooker, 'The Slow Cooker Ready and Waiting Cookbook'is an excellent resource.	2002-02-17
US	52167382	R8U7LCXZU6O7G	0965109542	599764856	Cook-Off America: Prize-Winning Recipes from the Public Television Series (PBS Cooking)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Cooking Across America	I purchased this book after watching the show on PBS for some time. I just finished serving the World-Famous Pumpkin Rolls to guests, and from the look on their faces and the 'mmmms', I think it was a success. This is 'Cuisine Americana' with a peek at a host of cooking genre. The book is very well laid out with many mouth-watering illustrations (the photo convinced me to try the Pumpkin Rolls). What I especially like is that most of the ingredients can be obtained at the local grocery store. The instructions are broken down into very easily understood steps which will please most people, especially persons with limited cooking experience. <BR>The Cook-Off America series has traveled to various culinary festivals across the country. The book gives the reader a delightful sampling of the best of each.  It will give you an opportunity to experience the essence of American cuisine. Your family will love the gastronomic voyage!	2002-02-16
US	52167382	R25DSBVO0ETFK	0737000449	608391825	Chicken Light	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Low in Fat....High in Flavor!!	This is an OUTSTANDING book! I purchased it at school through a discount book service and I have made many of the recipes and have never been disappointed.  The Spicy Rice with Chicken and Vegetables is one of my favorites.  I use boneless breast meat instead of thighs and hot salsa instead of medium, so the fat is reduced and the heat is increased.  With chicken as its staple, the book presents recipes in a wide variety of cooking genre: Asian, Cajun, Tex/Mex, Italian, French, Southern and even Hawaiian recipes are included.  Whenever I'm looking for something new to serve, this book is one of the first cookbooks that I peruse, and I have over 500 cookbooks in my collection.  The great thing is that you can serve these dishes to your family and friends with the knowledge that the food is lower in fat without sacrificing any flavor.  Many people equate low fat with low flavor and Chicken Light debunks that with a treasure trove of delicious recipes.  Here is hoping that Time/Life Books puts this wonderful collection into print once again.  If you can get your hands on this book, DO IT!!	2002-02-02
US	52167382	RPAKT9BTEXAS8	1570720428	116710825	Crock-It	Books	4	32	32	N	Y	Slow Cooking 101....and you'll get an 'A' for your results!	I had originally panned this book in an earlier review because it had a 'dump it in and turn it on' feel.  But I decided to give it another try, mostly because: 1. The other reviews were so positive and 2. Most people use a slow cooker for convenience.<BR>Well all I can say now is 'mea culpa'.  Crock-It offers some tasty meals for people who don't have time to spend hours in the kitchen. A nice feature is that most of the ingredients are probably in your cupboard or refrigerator.  This is a great gift for someone new to the kitchen or a college student. And of course, you can always toss in spices and herbs that appeal to your taste.  If you are giving a slow cooker as a gift, Crock-It would be the perfect companion.	2001-11-16
US	52167382	R34TK5CDTOEA5C	1558322086	489682336	The Soup Mix Gourmet	Books	4	25	25	N	Y	Canned and dried soup??? Yep!  And you'll love it!!!	This is a HUGE book!  Don't be daunted by that as it covers everything from appetizers to main course and tosses in a host of rubs and marinades.  Diane Phillips doesn't just recount all of the previously published recipes of the various soup vendors, she undertakes to combine the flavors of canned and dry soup mixes to produce a wonderful result.  She provides many tips and alternatives to accomodate individual tastes.<br />This isn't 'dump chili'.  It is a realistic use of condensed and dried soup to enhance and ease the cooking process.  I was reluctant at first to purchase this book but it was recommended by a friend.  I remembered growing up to recipes that were 'drowned' in salty goop.  This book departs from that by combining condensed and dry soups with herbs and spices.  I must admit that I was most pleasantly surprised AND I use this book repeatedly.	2001-11-15
US	52167382	R2DGH0N1WHLR7	068815803X	410061587	Slow Cooker Ready & Waiting: 160 Sumptuous Meals That Cook Themselves	Books	4	256	260	N	Y	Labor Intensive? Yes...Flavor Intensive? Definitely!!!	Being a fan of Rick Rodgers (Thanksgiving 101 and Pressure Cooking for Everyone), I nevertheless held out from buying this book because of the polarized reviews. My old slow cooker, one of the nonstick pot sitting on a warming base types, recently died and although I don't do a lot of cooking of this type, I wanted to replace it with an upscale model. I purchased a Rival Smart-Pot that allows you to press the cooking time and temperature and walk away. Sooo...I decided to give this book a try. I find myself agreeing with the 'dump chili' crowd who cite the extensive amount of prep that goes into the recipes and also with the 'kitchen guru' group that praise the book for the results achieved from that much labor. For my first meal, I made the 'Bistro Beef Bourguignon' and I spent the better part of an hour putting the recipe together. Eight hours later, the house filled with the simmering aroma of wine, beef, onions, garlic and spices, I knew without tasting that this was going to be outstanding. This was without a doubt one of the best stews I have ever attempted. Subsequent to the Bourguignon, I have made the Pumpkin Bread and the Hot Fudge Spoonbread. All I can offer to describe them is 'Yum'.<br /> To be honest, I don't see this as a book that I would use during the week. It just takes too much time to build each meal. But I like to cook on weekends so that I can take something other than a cold sandwich to work. Reheating the Beef Bourguignon in a Tupperware container in the microwave almost got me tossed out of the teacher's room at my school. And like most stews, it tasted even better the second day.<br /> I guess my advice would be thus: If you view a slow cooker as a 'toss it in and turn it on' appliance, give this book a pass. But if you don't mind taking some time to achieve a scrumptious result, this book will delight you.	2001-11-12
US	52167382	R2H4UQBFYS0CZK	1581570139	341250010	Soups and Stews: For Fall &amp; Winter Days	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Plenty of low fat recipes that don't sacrifice the flavor!	I have recently begun a Weight Watchers program and I have been looking for recipes for soups that I could eat for lunch. I saw the description of this book and decided to give it a try. The first two recipes that I cooked, Mulligatawny and Hawaiian Hot Pot have been winners...and not that many points either. This is not 'diet food'! You can serve it to the family and the young ones will like it too. There are suggestions for modifying some of the recipes for children and that is well advised. My goal in the Weight Watchers program is to cook two new recipes per week in an attempt to build a repertoire of foods that are both tasty and healthy. I plan to use this book often and I think that you will enjoy it as much as I have.	2001-11-04
US	52167382	RZAZEYKX3BJ0	0936171022	382459152	The Great American Barbecue & Grilling Manual	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Got a Grilling or Barbeque Question?  THIS book's for you!!	I have subscribed to the Barbecue'n On the Internet newsletter ... for about 3 years and that is where I first 'met' Smoky Hale, who has a column there.  His 'aw shucks' self-deprecating style is both humorous and very informative.  His many inside tips and experience with the art of 'Q' made me an instant fan.  When his book was released in 2000, I eagerly purchased it and to no surprise, I use it regularly.      The book is really a conversation with the reader.  Smoky shares his years of experience, some good, some bad and you get the feeling that making some really bad food is part of the learning process.  And he does discuss every aspect of the grilling and barbeque process.  Barbequing, broiling, roasting and smoking procedures are thoroughly covered in detail.  He also talks about seasonings, rubs and marinades....what to use and why.      I really appreciated Smoky's discussions about choosing the right grill, cooking with a variety of heat sources: wood, charcoal, gas and electricity, meat selection, storage and safety and the chapter on building your own grill.  These chapters were not only informative, but were replete with many humorous anecdotes and quotations.      Whether you are a novice to barbeque and grilling or a self-styled pitmaster, you will enjoy this book.  I have over fifty books on the subject and this is without question one of my top choices.  It will demystify a sometimes confusing cooking genre and will give you answers to most, if not all of your questions.	2001-08-07
US	52167382	R1NQTEO5VD44FE	0762410078	788651028	Get Smokin': 190 Award-winning Smoker Oven Recipes	Books	2	90	96	N	Y	Disappointing at best.....	I purchased a Cookshack smoker over 5 years ago and have experimented with it off and on.  While I realize that barbeque is more art than science, I have been frustrated by the lack of information on just how much wood to use with particular recipes.  I pre-ordered this book in anticipation of learning some secrets and tricks in the use of the Cookshack smoker.  I waited for more than a month for delivery of the book and upon receipt of it, I eagerly delved into it looking for answers to my many questions.      To my great disappointment, this book offered absolutely no information that I hadn't learned from trial and error.  How much wood should I use?  The book suggests that I consult the Cookshack Operator's Manual.  There are some general guidelines but the guidelines don't tell you what amount of wood works best with what amount of food.  Although I have had some delicious food from the Cookshack, if I am cooking for guests, I use my Brinkmann smoker as I am more confident that the food will be cooked to perfection.  The water smoker takes longer, but is more forgiving than the sealed, dry smoking Cookshack.       People who like to smoke fish will find 48 pages of recipes.  If you prefer beef or pork, the list is much smaller, 16 and 15 pages respectively.  There are also small sections dedicated to sausages, lamb and game.      In short, this is a book that should have been a digest for Cookshack owners and prospective buyers.  At best, it is a generic guide for smoking recipes.  It doesn't promote the product line and it isn't a worthwhile choice for anyone new to smoking foods.	2001-08-06
US	52167382	RHDDY2VYIGYX0	1580082653	692298930	Dinosaur Bar-B-Que: An American Roadhouse	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	American cuisine with a barbeque twist.....YUMMM!	I must admit that I avoided purchasing this book as I have been disappointed in the past with cookbooks that are written for a particular restaurant.  Too often, the recipes in such books are only close approximations of the real items.  Alas, this book forgoes that tendency and gives the actual menu directions.  Dinosaur Bar-B-Que cooks traditional 'American cuisine'.  The recipes for 'Not Your Mama's Meatloaf' and 'Macaroni and Cheese Shepherd's Pie' were big hits. Each section (Beef, Poultry, Seafood, Pork etc.) contains some suggestions for the barbeque novice.  But what separates the 'Dinosaur' from other cookbooks are the recipes for sauces, rubs and marinades.  I have grown habanero chiles in my garden this summer and used them to make the hot version of the Mutha Sauce.  Problem is, I can't get enough of this stuff.  The combination of tastes will just dance on your tongue and you too will use it in more and more recipes.  The Creole Rub is also an easy to create but versatile spice combination.  On a lighter note, the compilation of the best of Dinosaur graffiti is hilarious.  It is obvious that this establishment takes its food seriously without taking itself all that seriously.  Buy the book....make the sauces....assemble the rubs and try the recipes.  As the authors suggest, this will be only a guidebook for you.  Feel free to experiment with your own spices and flavors.  If it isn't already, barbeque will become an indispensable part of your culinary experience!	2001-08-02
US	52167382	R2C7OO6ADBVLUE	0936184515	360661070	The Best Recipe: Grilling and Barbecue	Books	5	109	115	N	N	Another Masterpiece from Cook's Illustrated	Grilling and barbecuing have become a distinctly American passion as more and more grills and smokers appear in our backyards.  Too often however, that juicy ribeye or succulent tenderloin roast becomes something more fit to use as footgear than to appear on the dinner table.  Once again, the authors at Cook's Illustrated have scored a huge success with their latest book on the subject of grilling and barbecuing.  You will learn what to look for in equipment, the basic principles of both grilling and barbecuing and a thorough examination of preparing burgers, steaks, poultry, kebabs, fish and shellfish, veggies, pork and of course, ribs.  Rubs, sauces and salsa recipes are also provided.  But the main reason to purchase this book is for the techniques and recipes.  Each and every technique and recipe is the culmination of exhaustive testing by the authors.  You will be hailed as a grilling guru or pitmaster every time your family or guests experience the pleasure of tasting your fare.  You will use this book often and one word of caution: Don't let anyone borrow it or it will be the last time you see it!	2001-02-13
US	52167382	R2T9HIH8YB2IYX	0811825256	841692946	Pressure Cooking for Everyone	Books	5	126	129	N	N	Prepare  your favorite meals in a fraction of the time!	I have purchased several cookbooks for pressure cooking and have found only a few recipes that interested me. Rick Rodgers has rekindled my interest in the pressure cooker.  This book gives clear instructions and recipes for many popular recipes.  What I have been looking for and until now failed to find, is a cookbook that gives directions for making traditional 'American cuisine'. You will enjoy recipes for pot roast, barbequed chicken, beef stew with carrots and potatoes, beans, spaghetti and meatballs and a host of other favorites.  And no pressure cooker book is complete without a sinfully delicious cheesecake recipe.  Mr. Rodgers gives us Orange and Chocolate Marbled Cheesecake and you won't be disappointed. If you are looking to trim your cooking time and still be able to serve some of your favorite traditional meals, then this book will be a delightful addition to your kitchen library.	2001-02-11
US	52167382	RKY6MQVUHGUJ6	0689705476	790383888	The Clay Pot Cookbook	Books	5	60	64	N	N	No Time to Cook?   Let the Claypot do all the work!	I purchased a Romertopf clay pot 5 years ago and bought this book soon after.  Grover's Roast Chicken recipe was my first attempt and it was scrumptious!  I steered clear of the recipes containing organs but I found  that soups, stews and even breads turn out beautifully in the clay pot.  I  now have 3 sizes and would advise the user to line the pot with parchment  paper just to reduce the cleanup time.  This book helps to demystify a  basically simple cooking utensil and you will love the results.  Food is  packed with flavor and moisture and you just have to sit by and wait to  serve.  It is a lifesaver for those of us who love a home-cooked meal but  don't have the time after a long day at work.	2000-07-14
US	52167382	RF9AC36V0Y1N1	0688161499	751658546	The Ultimate Ice Cream Book: Over 500 Ice Creams, Sorbets, Granitas, Drinks, And More	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Real Crowd Pleaser	It is a tradition at our school to begin each year with a pot luck luncheon. I have an electric ice cream maker with a spare bowl. I was able to borrow an additional bowl and made 3 recipes from the book: Butter Pecan, Oreo Cheesecake, and Chocolate Malted Milk Ball. Suffice it to say, my colleagues wanted to know where I got the recipe(s) and upon learning, several purchased this book. The format is simple and for each recipe, some suggested variations are provided. There are some recipes (Earl Grey Ice Cream) that I wouldn't touch, but Bruce Weinstein has written what I consider to be the definitive guide thus far to creating exquisite ice cream desserts. You will come back to this reference time after time and you won't be disappointed!	2000-04-30
US	52167382	R200V6PC66G4UH	1558670815	328564415	Pasta Machine Cookbook (A Nitty Gritty Cookbook)	Books	5	79	85	N	N	Making fresh pasta has never been easier!	I bought this book a few years ago after purchasing an electric pasta maker.  The instructions are very clear and concise.  But the best thing is that the book gives the reader a huge number of pasta recipes including the  use of various flours, herbs, vegetables, fruits, spices and cheeses.   After using the book for awhile, I decided to experiment with some of my  favorites...garlic, basil and parmesan.  You will delight every person who  sits at your table and you will be proclaimed an absolute gourmet chef.   Pasta is very healthy and now it can be equally delicious.  Imagine  chocolate pasta topped with brandied strawberries!  Even the kids can make  pasta with these recipes.  I have had many hours of culinary pleasure  thanks to Donna German and you will too!	2000-04-21
