US	52176580	R1B360QC487PMZ	B0007J5QQW	462230094	Commando: A Boer journal of the Boer War (Penguin Books)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Vivid personal recounting of first major war of 20th Century	Written by a teenager, albeit, a resourceful, fit, intelligent son of a farmer and distinguished South African, it recounts in considerable detail the honourable soldiering on horseback and mule of young Deneys Reitz. His many encounters with the enemy;  the harsh weather, difficult landscape, starvation and disease on a guerilla operation that lasted over two years, is testament in part to luck, but also to his survival skills,  marksmanship, courage and tenacity. A great read which should be read with some advantage in conjunction with The Boer War by Thomas Pakenham.	2005-10-07
US	52176580	R10YRT6DHGW1AW	0749320389	410167140	Out of Ireland	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Historical fiction with narrative drive	Particularly interesting to those descendants of Irish emigrants who populated the Americas and Australia in the 19th century but also a very well told first person singular story of one \\"quality\\" revolutionary gentleman transported from the British Isles and the adventures he underwent in transit, on a hulk in Bermuda and in Van Diemen's land (Tasmania, Australia). Quite detailed and accurate almost sociological and political in its thrust as it traverses events that shaped the 20th century and the tragedies that resulted in that time.  Atmospheric and memorable.	2005-09-29
US	52176580	R2G7K7FQBYYIER	0142004693	929452996	The Bounty: The True Story of the Mutiny on the Bounty	Books	5	23	29	N	N	The manufacturing of history	A book worthy of study by students of history. I say that as a history teacher because it combines meticulous research with a compelling narrative. In addition, it is contextualised within the French Revolution and slavery and Romanticism among other significant events. It reveals the importance of who you know to how YOUR history is going to be manufactured, eg Midshipman Peter Heywood of THE BOUNTY, convicted mutineer, but pardoned by the King as the consequence of family connections. Or the diligence of Edward Christian (d.1823) sometime professor of law at Cambridge, who helped to inflate the case for Fletcher Christian, indeed could be considered mischievous in honouring him(p324) and diminishing the character of Lieutenant Bligh.  Fascinating examination of men in confined circumstances overcoming astonishing difficulties and surviving.  Lieutenant Bligh must be remembered as one of the greatest sailors in history having sailed the Bounty's 23 foot long two foot deep launch from Tofua in middle of the Pacific to Coupang in Timor over 3000 miles after having been set adrift by the mutineers and as one who suffered a \\"bad press\\". On the evidence, there was very little romantic about Fletcher Christian and his fateful decision may have been a matter of hurt pride and a hangover - far less noble impulses than the allure of a possible heaven on a tropical island freed from a tyrannical \\"captain\\".	2005-09-05
US	52176580	R1XDAVNR1VZCYC	0375726349	301023145	The Human Stain: American Trilogy (3)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The danger of freedom	The story of Coleman (Coal man, black man?) Silk (Slick, smooth, serpentine, sneaky?) who gets all he desires including, at 71, after a life of intellectual effort, the delicious pussy of a pantheistic 30 year old fawn ( Ms Faunia Farley) only to lose everything in a stunning fall when the bubble reputation he has created for himself, bursts. A tragedy (he is classics professor) of Greek proportions which manages to touch on the tragedy of modern America alluded to by having the figure of Bill Clinton looming in the shadows as Silk postulates silently \\" A century of destruction unlike any other in its extremity befalls and blights the human race - scores of millions of ordinary people condemned to suffer deprivation upon deprivation... and ... America is up in arms... about...Monica Lewinsky!\\"<br /><br />A novel of ideas, brilliantly written, with suspense and excellent narrative drive that reveals itself slowly, movingly, and intelligently. Its delights include dialectics on what it MEANS to be black in America; the tyrrany of proprietry; the effects of isms (including feminism) on academia; the present dumb generation; Vietnam Vets; the consequences and responsibilities of freedom PLUS it is thoroughly entertaining.  The Stain that Human Roth leaves is one I wish to revel in.	2005-08-04
US	52176580	R39A7V26VPITOW	0060195916	389452453	Chain of Command: The Road from 9/11 to Abu Ghraib	Books	4	8	14	N	Y	As the waters rising they gaze at the stars(wars)	Empires come and go but democratic ones are few and far between. I've no beef with the top couple of reviews listed and Mr Hersh represents one part of what makes a great democratic country, or that part which tries to keep the bastards at the top honest yet some commentators claim that to the likes of Bush it makes no difference - they will do there will come hell or high water.  Speaking of which, Mr Hersh does reveal the Administration's and its departments focus away from the human - in such things as on the ground operatives in areas such as Iran - and onto technology, and away from climate change and on to star wars.  Water not oil is the great challenge of this century but it seems that the likes of Bush are more concerned with keeping their supporters SUV's and Hummers rampaging through the land than the future of the planet YEEEEE  HAAAAAAA.  CHAIN OF COMMAND also reveals how frustrating it must be for the military to see the profession of arms brought into disrepute by amateurs, both those in uniform like Reservists and the likes of Rumsfield.  A sobering read.	2005-05-18
US	52176580	R1UL0D230NPOJS	1582342407	839075869	What Just Happened? Bitter Hollywood Tales from the Front Line	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Classy gossip and some insights	Sex sells, goes the old maxim, but if the sales of gossip magazines featuring the likes of the late Princess Diana, the present Drew Barrymore et al, then gossip may well be up there with sex as a matter of titilation (no pun intended) for the masses, of which I am one. THe fact is David Mamet is a great writer, Robert De Niro a great actor and the author, Art Linson, is no slouch in the producing arena. So if any of these are of interest to you, this book is a very well written - snappy dialogue, witty observations on the status of restaurant seating, and well constructed vignettes - as well as providing yet another insider's view on the shark aquarium known as Hollywood.	2005-05-09
US	52176580	R3GEVFKOF4F2H3	0684857081	86280798	Easy Riders, Raging Bulls: How the Sex-Drugs-and-Rock 'N' Roll Generation Saved Hollywood	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Come along for the ride	If you have been involved in the theatre or cinema or performing arts however tenuously, or know many of the greatest American films - Days of Heaven, The Conversation, The Deer Hunter, The Godfather et al - then you cannot fail to find something interesting in this book.  If you have often felt repulsed by the way those in the industry greet each other - either with a huge hug and kiss using words like \\"wonderful\\" \\"genius\\" \\"love\\" \\"fantastic\\" - you will also be entertained with a sense of schadenfreude at their rise and fall.  If you wonder at why Caifornia is the seventh biggest economy in the world this may provide some answers.  Language, histrionics, hate, love, ambition, drugs, and self destruction are rampant.<br /><br />Sample: \\"People loathed Peter...his ego was just so monstrous.  He was the great I AM, the SECOND COMING.  This screening was a DISASTER.  A CATACLYSM.\\"<br /><br /> In some ways the characters in this story - Coppola, Scorsese, Friedken - act as if they are the centre of the universe, and in some ways, to many millions who visit the movies, who escape their lives into the movies - they are.  A great read.	2005-04-18
US	52176580	R2AFXJ0GSX6G2R	0316648337	580907220	Reputations Under Fire	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Thoroughly entertaining and informative - a hoot to read	Subtitled Winners and Losers in the Libel Business and written by a British lawyer about English law , at first blush one would think this text would be about as exciting as watching the proverbial paint dry, or a wet weekend locked away on holiday with your wife and her mother, or worse still, your husband and HIS mother.  But you'd be wrong.  Dead wrong. A more entertaining, witty, revelatory and balanced overview of name calling is hard to imagine. Of course it is much more than this, but greed, power, envy, malice are some of the forces that drive the business and some of the David and Goliath tales that feature in this text make great reading not to mention the schadenfreude the reader fees at the fall of the vainglorious and powerful.<br /><br />If you are interested in freedom of speech, understanding the power Rupert Murdoch wields through such tabloid organs as he possesses in New York and elsewhere, on the other hand the importance of the Fourth Estate in bringing to heel those who abuse power, or if you are interested in Vanity Fair, National Enquirer, Private Eye or True Confessions or celebrities, the right to privacy, the public good, the administration of the law, then you will find this a worthwhile,  and entertaining,  text.  On my part, I am no lawyer, but am as interested in a good drama as much as the next man.  And in libel law, there is plenty of that.  Some comedy.  Some farce.  Perhaps even some tragedy.<br /><br />Mr Hooper begins by relating the history of the law which is rooted in  the 1275 statute Scandalum Magnatum and explains how the law works. My understanding is that it acted wholly in favour of the Lord of the manor who could take action against those who spoke ill of him. Thus it wholly favoured the powerful. He ends by discussing later reforms especially the Civil Procedure Act of 1997 in which the parties\\" should be on as equal footing as possible, that expense is where possible saved and that cases are dealt with in a way that is proportionate to the amount of money involved, the importance of the case, the complexity of the issues and the financial position of each party.\\" p 450  In line with this direction towards simplicity, judges will increasingly take control of libel actions to ensure they are swiftly and less expensively brought to court, or are settled, or otherwise disposed of at an early stage.  Under these new (Lord Woolf) proposals - including the adoption of Section of the New Zealand Libel Act 1992 - litigation is intended to be a last resort.<br /><br />A welcome advance in the light of the commonly held layman's view (cf Richard Ackland on Defamation Law Sydney Morning Herald 15Apr05) that complex laws favour the income of the legal profession and it is in their interests to resist reform.<br /><br />But problems exist between countries within the European Community as does between the states in the Comonwealth of Australia.For example,  the French are much more forgiving of affairs by their Prime Minister,(the bedroom being a sacred place I gather) failing to see that these might compromise his ability to keep his mouth shut during a moment of delicious climax when he accidentally shouts out a state secret.  C'est la vie! The author notes that, perhaps as a legacy of WW11,  although Germany for example has freedom of speech enshrined in her Constitution, there is an unfortunate tendency for European countries to resort to criminal law in libel cases which he asserts should be strictly a matter of civil law.<br /><br />In this excellent book there are some heady lessons - like the McDonalds case which lasted for 7 years and cost McDonalds $10,000,000 and their reputation even though they technically won on a number of points at issue. It was a case of advertising versus the truth and fought in a Corporate Orwellian world that Eric Blair envisaged was to be the province of Government or Bureaucracy. It was also a case of David ( in this case Englishman David Morris a single father and postman and Helen Steel a 26 year old ex-gardener) and Goliath (the McDonalds food corporation.  It makes for fascinating reading.  What a folly!  What a waste of resources! But how frightening for the defendants having to suffer private detective investigations, seven years of courts and cross examination etc.<br /><br />Moral of the book: try to get on with your neighbours.<br /><br />It is worth every cent this book.  Witty, inspiring, and very well written.an and Helen Steel a 26 year old ex-gardener) and Goliath (the McDonalds food corporation.  It makes for fascinating reading.  What a folly!  What a waste of resources! But how frightening for the defendants having to suffer private detective investigations, seven years of courts and cross examination etc. <br />Moral of the book: try to get on with your neighbours. <br />It is worth every cent this book.  Witty, inspiring, and very well written.	2005-04-17
US	52176580	R2J65U42GH5MIT	184232134X	971475104	The Confessions Of Joseph Baisz	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The most evil of evil doers Joseph Baisz	Have you ever carried a book around from place to place and neglected to read it? My first edition copy of THE CONFESSIONS OF JOSEPH BAISZ has been such a companion since 1978 but having started it a night ago, read it through in  two sittings.  If it is the case that trust is the only way in which a society can function, then Joseph Baisz the character is a pre-eminent example of an individual who can, like a cancer destroys a body, destroy society. And if it is the case that Stalin and Hitler, for example, could only have arisen because too many persons sought individual advancement through betraying their relatives, their friends, their neighbours, then the novel CONFESSIONS OF JOSEPH BAISZ is a fascinating case study of the mind of one of those individuals.  And it is those little betrayals that can lead to the big ones.  Although the parallels with other evil characters are alluded to such as RICHARD 111 and his ability to kill a man then woo and win his wife and relish doing it, Joseph Baisz is more akin to the murderers engage by RICHARD 111 to kill Gloucester - except that Joseph too gets pleasures from his many victories Like RICHARD but is unable to let go relationships with his victims.<br /><br />Set in a totalitarian state there are no McDonald's arches visible in this novel and the landscape matches the mind of Joseph, an ordinary mind, but one that has a greater desire for Schadenfreude than most. The tone is comic, black but comic, where treachery can lead to love (p.70) where kidnapping children is the end result of fostering their trust (p.117) where the exquisite denoument is to betray one's closest kin, one's sister, whilst ON PARADE.  The novel also contains one of the most potent paragraphs I've read about the nature of a gun - \\"....its ever open mouth, rounded in an expression of imbecile willingness.  Overhanging the butt, like the back of a tiny cranium, was the curve of metal that contained the firing mec hanism: the only brain it had, capable of performing just one trick.\\" p. 158  A measure or extension of the nature of those who use the things the author seems to suggest. In all, an apparently neglected novel well worth reading.of performing just one trick.\\" p. 158  A measure or extension of the nature of those who use the things the author seems to suggest. In all, an apparently neglected novel well worth reading.	2005-03-30
US	52176580	R2O3EBESRIQ1IT	0670886696	802733832	Mao Zedong: A Penguin Life (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	Elegant, concise overview of Mao	\\"The American moon and the Chinese moon are the same moon\\" noted Mao - the American moon was not BETTER.  This is my first book on Mao and the way in which  Mr Spence underpins this brief overview of Mao's life with examples of Mao's poetry and philosophy adds to understanding of this hugely significant figure in the World's history.  The descent into senility (for want of a better term} and the confirmation once again of the dictum power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely, are sad perhaps even tragic conclusions to what began as a noble inspirational life. An enjoyable, informative and concise read.	2005-03-25
US	52176580	R27V07E7WHDBCD	0375414746	226199242	The Clearing	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Storytelling with powerful atmosphere	An allegory of sorts where man is seen as a kind of beast who when not making war with himself - in the case of THE CLEARING, the Civil War, and then World War One - he is making war on nature, and after he's done, moves on, leaving behind his dead and the stumps of the trees he's cut down, THE CLEARING of the title.  This allegory is related with considerable beauty in the prose and with a powerful narrative drive. \\"The locomotive's air pump thumped six strokes, stopped, and a safety valve began sizzling steam. Everything seemed ready for release.\\" p112  It seems a quintessential American novel dealing as it does with race, guns, violence, the legacies of the civil war and the cliche \\"taming of the frontier\\", but the writer gives the landscape a palpable and living presence, sullen and threatening and terrifyingly  burgeoning and intrusive \\"The mill manager's wife was fanning herself in her new sitting room, seating on a divan with her husband's head in her lap while horseflies banged the screens, mad to get in at them.\\" p232  The South North divide is made vivid by the former as ignorant, poor and independent and the latter as cultured, dependent, and wealthy.  Interestingly, the novel manages to touch on a number of abiding American themes including that of sentimentality, the subject of much derision in non-American countries.  The sentimentality featured in so many films, the sentimentality masquerading as patriotism and the author opines at one point (p 296) that sentimentality leads to oblivion.  A rich and satisfying read.	2005-03-08
US	52176580	R3VXTI5INCRMSN	0061075582	455836514	Moscow 1812: Napoleon's Fatal March	Books	4	30	35	N	Y	Debunks the myths and reveals the horror	With hundreds maybe thousands of books written about the events surrounding 1812 I have only read this one.  And it is memorable in making clear that supply questions, sometimes of the most basic kind, can define the outcome of wars.  For example Napoleon's inattention to replacing the 50 year old Gribeauval gun and gun carriage or badly designed uniforms which look good on parade but which are difficult, restricting and irritating on a march.  The problem of feeding hundreds of thousands of horses.  In addition Mr Zamoyski makes clear the effects of the Grand Armee on the move, like a giant centipede, never moving uniformly, parts bunched up, parts dragging behind.  The husbandry of resources, the effects of the cold, the black comedy of Napoleon having to slide down a frozen hill on his arse, the hundreds of details that give life to this amazing tale.  On the Russian side, the interpersonal squabbling of the major protagonists is astonishing where personalities and the lack of dedication to a common cause or agreement on strategy, was farcical.  Simple maps make the major battles clear to the reader. Mr Zamoyski also makes clear that even in the face of the most appalling misadventures, blunders, or losses of the most tragic kind, the populace will believe what it wants to believe and with sheer weight of personality, some, like Napoleon, can survive the truth.  With a combination of an overall grasp of the war, with rivetting attention to detail and the suffering and experiences of the ordinary soldier, this is a good read.	2005-02-12
US	52176580	R2HMF7D3KX70OG	0060188766	849791651	Pound for Pound: A Biography of Sugar Ray Robinson	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Tells the story but lacks the poetry	I'll say it up front that Herb Boyd is a good writer but not a great one and that Walker Smith (aka Sugar Ray Robinson) awaits a writer of the stature of Ralph Ellison or Richard Wright or Langston Hughes or Norman Mailer to put the poetry into the story that is this one. On the other hand, this is the first bio I've read of the man I've admired for the past fifty years. Now that I've discovered he had faults - for a professional boxer to lay a finger on a woman is despicable but Miles Davis did it and, hey, is it forgiveable because he was no pro? - it is like finding out your mother used to spit. Nevertheless, I can't help but see him, faults and all, as one of the all time American greats up there with Miles Davis, Bojangles Robinson, Paul Robeson, Martin Luther King. He was so beautiful, so graceful, so strong such an artist of the boxing craft one feels happy to have lived in the same time as he. He never lost an amateur fight and out 175 professional bouts was beaten 19 times. He had a punch so hard that it knocked Rocky Graziano's mouthpiece into the crowd (p.137) He was so beautiful, no actor alive will be able to play his part. Did his grace come from his feeling for music (drumming) and dancing (he did take some lessons but was naturally good at it)? He was incredibly generous in supporting charities especially those associated with cancer. He was cool enough to own a Pink (PINK I TELL YOU) Pink Cadillac and all of this against a backdrop, and this cannot be ignored, of economic and social racism of the most vicious kind.  The joy of the man comes through as does the power and character and beauty of his long time partner Edna May Robinson and the resilience and strength of his mother.  Buy the book.  In hardcover.  And treasure it.	2005-02-03
US	52176580	R3GCXUDZ4XRLKR	0300097271	486446011	Bill Evans: How My Heart Sings	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Record collectors and music devotees listen up	A conscientious effort written by a musician concentrating on Mr Evans' recorded legacy with considerable detail and assessment on the various records issued. As Mr Evans was more concerned with music than any other thing in his life, I'm sure he would approved.  But the feeling that was the essential element in everything Mr Evans produced is somewhat absent in this bio. Not a gripping read but one I would not be without.	2005-02-01
US	52176580	RID43BIX9J4UK	0811214532	776075987	All Souls	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Elegiac and sweet	A novel which appears to be about nothing but suggests everything. It is set in one of the two most famous English Universities, and very little of moment occurs in its pages - there is no murder, no scandals, no international spies but en passant the novel alludes to all of these things. It concerns itself with the minutia of daily living as seen through the eyes of the single Spanish lecturer. The eccentricities, gentleness, and foibles of this section of English life are a central concern with the realisation that far from being an ivory tower where inhabitants concern themselves with matters of a higher order, of philosophy, of God, and existence, they spend their time as best friend Dr Cromer-Blake expostulates, thinking about men and women  - everything one does, everything one thinks, everything else that one thinks and plots about is a medium through which to think about them.  Even wars are fought in order to be able to start thinking again, to renew our unending thinking about our men and women, about those who were or could be ours, about those we know already and those we will never know, about those who were young and those who will be young , about those who shared our beds and those who never will (p64).  In the end, there is a sadness when the novel closes, a sweet sorrow and an acknowledgement of connection between his pushing his newborn son along in a pram and Marriott dragging his one legged dog along, or the Gypsy flowerseller dragging her wares along.  It is a love story, but expresses itself in a love of humanity which happens to be that situated in Oxford, England. A love story that echoes Donne's lines that no man is island entire unto himself even though he may often feel he is!	2005-01-29
US	52176580	R3LF6USHDESC4G	0226043932	288621541	Correction (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Not as funny as other Bernhard novels but a good read	Two science academics, one dead one alive, get themselves in a first person singular dither about all kinds of things - siblings, mothers, neighbours, aloneness, the point of existence, suicide, parents, self, the apparent conflict in EVERYTHING including their own minds.  Reminiscent of Bach insofar as repetition, and exploration and improvisation on a theme apply. If you like Beckett, stream of consciousness, psychology, Freud, music, philosophy, and a solid read, this book, as one of the protaganists explains, is what it is.	2005-01-25
US	52176580	R700FS6W3PXKE	0399151931	752362767	Generation Kill: Devil Dogs, Iceman, Captain America and The New Face of American War	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A compelling read	No need to recap some of the excellent reviews on this work. It is a fine non-judgemental reporting job by the author who manages to provide solid character illumination whilst technically detailing the whizz bangery of modern weapons and leads the reader carefully through the minefield of chaotic battle situations. The work also reignites the commonplace observation that these boys with their toys may be in a circumstance sans gameboys, tv, drugs (in the main), cars, where their sense of community and comradeship is so strong it may end up being for most of them the most profound and rewarding experience of their lives as such a sense of community is absent in modern Western societies where you can drive encapsulated in your vehicle through suburb, city, and town,  and see no one walking, or congregating. As the author notes, in the town he comes from, many are on mood lightening medication to help them cope with neighbours or queues at the supermarket. These boys - 19 years old, with most in the early twenties are admirable citizens for the most part - and their battle experiences make for a  compelling read.	2005-01-19
US	52176580	R9RY1ELSTM90Q	1400042305	167406250	Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsar	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Lurid, frightening expose of stalin	Two days before xmas 2004 a young Australian Federal policeman was fatally shot by an unkown sniper whilst on a tour of duty in the Solomon Islands, SW Pacific. It was a headline.  His colleagues stood shoulder to shoulder and wept as his coffin was loaded onto an aircraft for return to Australia. Author Mr Montefiore notes on p.643 of STALIN that \\" perhaps 20 million had been killed(under Stalin's rule); 28 million deported, of whom 18 million had slaved in the gulags.  Yet, after so much slaughter, they (Politburo members etc) were still believers.\\"  Is the difference between the former and the latter a case of the former being the reaction of a civilized country and the latter an example of a barbaric one?  Who knows?  Mr Montefiore has chosen an apt title for his work - Stalin acted like a Tsar with total control, terror and giving expression through murder to every whim, anxious thought or \\"paranoia\\". For the general reader, this is at once a book resembling the lurid details of a depraved society - cf National Enquirer; at the same time resembling LORD OF THE FLIES where those in power acted like wilful, spoilt, savage children; but with undertones of KING LEAR where men are reduced as to flies to wanton gods.  A bizarre read, where the very human side of all is revealed - Mr Roosevelt, Mr Churchill included.  Every individual who ever flirted with Communism or Stalinism should read this tome.  On the other hand not to distinguish between those of the \\"left\\" and supporters of Stalin is to do a criminal disservice to the former, just as it is silly to describe President George W. Bush as a [...].  Yes it is a shocking read, and not for the squeamish or those disgusted by sexual activity of a perverse kind.	2004-12-24
US	52176580	R24D6HYHG17XW4	1580631169	505221795	Who Killed Hollywood?: And Put The Tarnish On Tinseltown	Books	2	2	2	N	N	It takes chutzpah	It takes chutzpah, or arrogance, or an attitude of \\"maybe there's a buck in it\\" to put out a book such as this which is a collection of columns written by self opinionated Mr Bart for GQ and Variety. On the other hand it may be just another sign of the \\"dumbing down of the West\\" . I'm one of the dumb ones who bought it and in HARDCOVER (albeit remaindered). Not particularly well written but cashing in on the fact that he mixes with the rich and famous so suckers like me will fork out good money to find out his \\"insights\\" into the way Hollywood works.  Save your money. Can be read IN TOTAL in about 30 minutes.	2004-12-05
US	52176580	R3DLZC9BYDOB95	0007140975	232032445	How Mumbo-Jumbo Conquered the World: A Short History of Modern Delusions	Books	4	43	50	N	N	Mr Wheen examines evidence of reason on retreat	Casting an erudite eye over a variety of sources Mr Wheen (born 1957) has written an informative and entertaining book which sets out to examine the evidence of the statement by British Philosopher Roger Scruton that reason is now on the retreat both as an ideal and as a reality (P.7) In my own experience in my own country (Australia) I note that the third most popular course (after mandatory English, and Maths)  for the High School Certificate in NSW is Business Studies. I note also that Australian Universities seem to have an orientation towards vocational or \\"practical courses\\" and that subjects such as philosophy and other \\"soft\\" subjects appear to have a shrinking student base. Philosophy, among other things, is concerned with thinking about thinking, validity, the role of a premise, evidence, logic and so on, but as H.L. Mencken noted \\"every man prefers what he can understand to what puzzles and dismays him\\" (p.111) and the acquisition of knowledge is a hard incremental slog compared to switching on the tv. Hence, it is argued, the rise of evangelical fundamentalism. In America religious superstition is about the same per capita as Bangladesh, which is surprising for an advanced industrialized country.  Mr Wheen argues that it is far better for the powerless to seek solace in crystals, ley-lines, and the myth of Abraham than in actually challenging the rulers, or the social and economic systemn over which they preside (p. 193). What is revealing and alarming is the seepage that occurs between business, religion, cultish mumbo jumbo, government and educational institutions. The Clintons, the Blairs, The Reagans have all been involved in mumbo jumbo including consulting astrologers.  Nor do the left escape Mr Wheen's analysis and research and are revealed as being ideological blind to Stalin, Pol Pot and as demonising the USA .  The Muslim world also gets a serve or two as Mr Wheen points out to them that it was not Mohammed but the jurists of the 8/9th centuries who divided the world into the abode of Islam and the abode of war (p. 291)  He also reminds them it was the Arab world which began modernization so willingly embraced by the West through Astronomy and Mathematics.<br /><br />Mr Wheen's book is a refreshing and compelling read.s who divided the world into the abode of Islam and the abode of war (p. 291)  He also reminds them it was the Arab world which began modernization so willingly embraced by the West through Astronomy and Mathematics. <br />Mr Wheen's book is a refreshing and compelling read.	2004-11-21
US	52176580	R1H8C6OUZR1SRM	0810110490	274700893	Fateless	Books	5	26	28	N	Y	Holocaust through the eyes of an adolescent boy	One of the most remarkable first person singular novels I have read.  Remarkable because the subject, a 14 year old Hungarian boy, speaks his experiential truth about being shepherded and transported into the concentration camps of Nazi Germany but still responds to the beauty and advantages of life as it is lived - colours, order, friends. For example, the benefit of getting on the train to Auschwitz early as the early trains have \\"only\\" 60 people to a boxcar whereas the later ones are expected to have 80. At the destination station under his feet \\"was the customary crushed stone; and then an immaculate white asphalt road (which) disappeared into infinity.\\"(p61) And the observation that nowhere is a kind of ordered life-style, a kind of exemplary behaviour, even an ethic, as important as in captivity.(p100)  And then the experience of freedom where the old lady on a tram  turns away from him in apparent disgust at his appearance, but old Mr Steiner \\"gave me a hug just as I was, in my hat, striped prisoner's coat, and all sweaty.\\" p 184.  SHOW me a more heartbreaking sentence in literature! There is also the questioning of his experience - did you SEE with your own eyes the gassing? No. So you're basing your statement on rumour and gossip?  Yes.<br /><br />I have never understood REAL hunger until I read this novel. Our young hero is upset on the day of his liberation because he misses out on his scheduled soup ration!<br /><br />A remarkable and memorable read, that is at once gripping, involving, and emotionally powerful.	2004-11-13
US	52176580	R32OXH4MTJ918U	0802150616	472087960	A Personal Matter	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The raw experience of  an interesting Bird	In A PERSONAL MATTER the two characters Himiko and Bird come startlingly to life through the writers artistry and the reader is driven on by wanting to know what is going to happen to them. The writing is so carefully wrought that we wish not to miss a word - eg,  And hadn't the question seeped from a vault which had opened in his own brain, pickled in the vinegar of his grief and lack of sleep? p. 27 eg, He found himself caught in the claws of a formidable lobster of fatigue. p. 109 eg, She too was heading for the North Pole of disgruntlement. p 153.  Structurally the events occur over a period of a few days and the story ends with a satisfactory resolution.  It is a deeply satisfying read, and an artistic triumph.  It evokes not only intellectually and morally challenging ideas, but splatters the work with a complex mosaic of feelings, including a weird eroticism as Bird and Himiko search for some kind of connection and meaning through physical congress, as well as revulsion, fear, horror, disgust ( a student kneels to smell Bird's vomit disgorged in a classroom to get evidence of Bird's irresponsibility towards his duty as a teacher) and many other feelings. Through a microscopic examination of one person in one highly charged crisis situation Mr Oe may be speaking for a post War world.  A wonderful read.	2004-10-28
US	52176580	ROI0H3IKC4J2O	1852427175	516462236	Her Privates We	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Elegant, true, vivid, and memorable	Of course, I say this work is elegant, true, vivid and memorable as a work, not the events it depicts.  In parts of the world that used to make up the Commonwealth and serviced by Penguin books, the title may be THE MIDDLE PARTS OF FORTUNE.  Having had 25 years in the military I can only say I read this book from cover to cover, and relished every word in it.  Artistically, as an artifact, it has a satisfying structure and conventional narrative. Like the characters in it, especially Private Bourne, it manages a superb tone, neither hiding the horror, the detail, but never sentimentalizing the common bravery of the ordinary man whilst despising the shirker. I could go on but I just draw to your attention on P58 the brilliant detail of having to carry an awkward box three miles by hand: - ....he was glad to dump the box he and Lance-Corporal Johnson had carried the three miles from Philosophe on the floor of the Quartermaster's office.  It had those handles which hang down when not in use, but turn over and force one's knuckles against the ends of the box when it is lifted.  By reversing the grip, one may save one's knuckles, but only at the expense of twisting one's elbow, and the muscles of the forearm.  Having tried both ways, they passed their handkerchiefs through the handles, and knotted the corners, so that it was slung between them, but the handkerchief being of different sizes, the weight was not equally distributed.  The quartermaster's store was a large shed of galvanized iron, which may have been a garage originally.  He was not there, but the carpenter, who was making wooden crosses, of which a pile stood in one corner, thought he might be back at the transport lines; on the other hand he might be back at any moment, so they waited for as long as it took to smoke a cigarette, watching the carpenter, who, having finished putting a cross together, was painting it with a cheap-looking white paint.  -That's the motto of the regiment,- said the carpenter, taking up one on which their badge and motto had been painted carefully. - It's in Latin, but it means WHERE GLORY LEADS.<br /><br />Bourne looked at it with a sardonic grin. - That is just one paragraph of 247 pages of fine prose, and itself could be a study as a sample of quite  brilliant writing.<br /><br />A classic of the 20th century.ing up one on which their badge and motto had been painted carefully. - It's in Latin, but it means WHERE GLORY LEADS. <br />Bourne looked at it with a sardonic grin. - That is just one paragraph of 247 pages of fine prose, and itself could be a study as a sample of quite  brilliant writing. <br />A classic of the 20th century.	2004-10-16
US	52176580	R1J18CP3IMDWEW	0380720019	253953102	The Boer War	Books	5	17	31	N	Y	Vivid writing, primary sources, comprehensive understanding	Atr the outset, it should be noted that this book could be usefully supplemented by reading COMMANDO by Deneys Reitz - A Boer journal ,of the Boer War.<br />Much of the horror of 20th century warfare - trench warfare, concentration camps, shooting or otherwise mistreating prisoners - was carried out in the Boer war. Some readers, and I am a general reader not an historian, will have been aware of elements of the Boer War such as the shooting of prisoners by Lt \\"Breaker Morant\\" which was and is something of a cause celebre in Australia retold in books, plays and a fine contemporary film.  But the one feeling I have after reading this fine book by Mr Pakenham is a far greater sympathy for the Boers and a much better appreciation of the contribution and sacrifice that black Africans made in what was touted as a \\"white man's\\" war.  In fact it was a black man's war too with c100,000 black riflemen seeing duty, and fighting in effect for the right to vote.  Mr Pakenham provides evidence to suggest that the successful survival by the British at the siege of Mafeking was made possible by the sacrifice of black Africans.<br />Item:  3500 horses perished in one day in one cavalry charge.<br />Item:  400,000 horses, mules, donkeys died in total<br />Item:  Lord Kitchener invented the concentration camp using a Spanish model re Cubans<br />Item:  The British military and politicians did not care about the thousands of women and children in concentration camps and as the result of disgusting conditions many many died as a result.<br />Item:  It was not superior marksmanship or courage that won, but the application of the knowledge that defence was superior to attack with the new, smokeless, high velocity, weapons.<br />The book is very well written, with a reliance on much primary source material, especially diaries and letters of the major British protagonists<br />including Sir Alfred Milner, High Commissioner for South Africa and Lt Governor of Cape Colony who is revealed in his own words as a thoroughly despicable character.  The reader also gets a very real feeling for the exigencies of the landscape, the boredom of routine for the military, the clash of battle where the stones on the ground or the mud on the banks of a river become as frighteningly real as the whizz and splat of dum dum bullets.  Clearly the writer has experienced the landscape firsthand. The reader also gets a very real picture of the characters involved, their weaknesses and strengths, including some ordinary and very likeable soldiers or \\"Tommy's\\".<br />The likely causes and consequences of the war are made clear to the reader.  The usual suspects - imperial supremacy of the British; greed for gold, diamonds; denial of franchise; nationalism - are covered and a re-evaluation of the protaganists undertaken.  It is a fair and balanced re-assessment of the task faced by General Sir Redvers Buller and his inability to overcome it whilst appreciating his intelligent appraisal of the situation he found himself in.  On the other hand it reveals Lord Kitchener as arrogant and hard working but overrated and over-compensated for his role.  The book also emphasises the CRITICAL role of transport and supply.<br />We are still living with the consequences of it today but one redeeming reality is that democracy and a free press are likely to inhibit a repetition.  What was that?  Guantanomo Bay? Oil? Imperialism?  Franchise? Prisons?espicable character.  The reader also gets a very real feeling for the exigencies of the landscape, the boredom of routine for the military, the clash of battle where the stones on the ground or the mud on the banks of a river become as frighteningly real as the whizz and splat of dum dum bullets.  Clearly the writer has experienced the landscape firsthand. The reader also gets a very real picture of the characters involved, their weaknesses and strengths, including some ordinary and very likeable soldiers or \\"Tommy's\\".   The likely causes and consequences of the war are made clear to the reader.  The usual suspects - imperial supremacy of the British; greed for gold, diamonds; denial of franchise; nationalism - are covered and a re-evaluation of the protaganists undertaken.  It is a fair and balanced re-assessment of the task faced by General Sir Redvers Buller and his inability to overcome it whilst appreciating his intelligent appraisal of the situation he found himself in.  On the other hand it reveals Lord Kitchener as arrogant and hard working but overrated and over-compensated for his role.  The book also emphasises the CRITICAL role of transport and supply.   We are still living with the consequences of it today but one redeeming reality is that democracy and a free press are likely to inhibit a repetition.  What was that?  Guantanomo Bay? Oil? Imperialism?  Franchise? Prisons?	2004-10-13
US	52176580	R1Y1OK9U43NQVB	037570924X	236185551	An Equal Music: A Novel	Books	4	16	18	N	N	An artist who conjures real pleasure	Above all else, Mr Seth implies, the purpose of Art, including music, is to provide pleasure and this work of art, this book, gives the reader pleasure first, an understanding of the process that goes into making art (music) second, and third, a story which centres on a lover/musician and his emotional ups and downs as he engages with the glorious and partly deaf pianist Julia who seems to embody the perfect vehicle for making love/music.<br /><br />Some of the glories of the book is its sheer sensuousness as it engages the reader in a journey into sensual pleasure and shows how one art, reading, can reveal the pleasures of  other arts, sounds, colours, fragrances. The impact of sound/art re Janet Cardiff (b.1957), the consciousness of sounds (p.61) the connections between sounds, the importance of the contract between the performer and the audience and the state of both during performance - associations, memories, mood; the importance of silence.  The book is rich in such considerations and provides a real understanding of the connection between the humanity of the performers and the making of music and the development of harmony in performance.  It is especially engrossing for any music lover for one of the book's instruments -an Ononi violin -  is invested with a powerful personification so that the reader begins to feel for its well being and future much as the musician at the centre of the story does.  Similarly, readers gain a real appreciation of what music making entails, including the importance of the score as opposed to an interpretation of that score by other musicians.  In the end, the book recalls that wonderful saying, if music be the food of love, play on.  Mr Seth's command of language makes the reading an easy pleasure.  You may purchase a double CD of music accompanying pieces performed by the characters in the novel, one, A Beethoven Quintet, never before recorded on CD.  Let's face it.  A joy to read and hear.	2004-09-26
US	52176580	R2OSBD6BKMVQWN	0520216652	706191144	The Birth of Bebop: A Social and Musical History	Books	5	8	8	N	N	entertaining, interesting, authoritative	It's hard to explain the excitement a 13 year old had on first hearing Dizzy Gillespie's THINGS TO COME on Side A and TWO BASS HIT on Side B.  Or for that matter, as a 25 year old, on hearing KUSH from AN ELECTRIFYING EVENING WITH DIZZY GILLESPIE relayed on the VOICE OF AMERICA by Willis Conover.  Undoubtedly there was something electrifying about the music which Mr Deveaux suggests had a \\"sense of frustration embedded in its core\\" p.446.  Certainly, it was a musical world away from that of the great Thomas Fats Waller for example whose genius was usually sublimated beneath jumping and jive.  It was SERIOUS music and demanded attention. This fine book by Mr Devaux puts the evolution of this revolutionary music in context and inspires one to revisit many of the records including those who inspired the great John Coltrane - Louis Jordan and his Tympany Five. It is also of interest to musicians, musicologists, sociologists, historians but as a general reader who loves America's classical music - called jazz - it is a very fine read indeed and about the best book I own on Bebop.	2004-09-23
US	52176580	R18AXGYYHZUF53	067972186X	978990793	The Drowned and the Saved	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A must for students of ethics	This is a book that causes the reader to reconsider, reflect critically one's own views, marvel at the level of depravity to which humans can steep, and is one which I imagine should be a standard text in ethics courses.<br /><br />But it also raises questions of memory and the mind\\"s ability to adjust, amend and retool.  Mr Levi must stand as one of that sad century's most astonishing examples of  positive human achievement .	2004-09-17
US	52176580	R1XIUULOI1TBJ3	0670031739	714966649	Something for Nothing: Luck in America	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	Truly fascinating but a bit of a slog	If it is the case that nothing much has changed regarding survival of individual humans and their families and it remains a jungle out there, then this book should be part of the survival kit, or first aid kit alongside the bandages, stingose, and burn cream.  An unlikely event as digesting this somewhat academic book is not quite as satisfying as pulling the handle on a slot machine or throwing the dice or putting another 200 each way on that horse race.  It is more likely to be read by those of the Protestant persuasion who see sacrifice and hardwork as the road to grace than those of the Catholic persuasion who see chance and miracles as signficant.  It is also an historical analysis of American culture(sport, art, etc) in relation to the pursuit of happiness, the American dream.  And lets face it, governments depend on gambling for a significant part of their revenue - whether its Wall Street, lotteries, Casinos or racing, it's big bucks.  A fascinating book but a bit of a slog.	2004-09-04
US	52176580	R3FQP1JC7QS2WG	0306809885	892439648	Open Sky: Sonny Rollins And His World Of Improvisation	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Insightful analysis of artists work	The first test to me on reading about an artist is whether the book is a spur to sending the reader back to the works.  This book passes that test and I'm revisiting Mr Rollins' legacy especially that on the RCA Collected Set and Live at the Village Vanguard with Wilbur Ware, Elvin Jones et al. Those of you familiar with HEAR ME TALKIN' TO YOU will appreciate the insights gained from the musicians' own thoughts and feelings not to mention the appeal of the patois.  OPEN SKY is quite valuable in that Mr ROLLINS makes quite a contribution.  The author adds to the appeal by going over the recorded legacy of Mr Rollins. We don't only need great musicians, they need great listeners.<br /><br />There is also many added pleasures to this fine read, including thoughts about health, attitude, race, as well as the added pleasure of Mr Rollins' involvement with some of our greatest artists including COLEMAN HAWKINS and JOHN COLTRANE.  For lovers of improvised music (jazz) I would think this is an essential purchase.	2004-08-28
US	52176580	R59W7VXOL9X09	0374172870	350423555	Hourglass	Books	3	3	7	N	N	A pastiche of experimental writing	This is a difficult read which I tended to race as I neared the end.  Which is not to say it does not have an aggregate of power awaiting the more patient and attentive reader. It raised questions in me, such as Why Literature? which I answered myself in my head as I read<br /><br />(in the manner of parts of the book itself) as follows: because literature reminds us that no matter how horrible our individual circumstances there is ALWAYs someone worse off and it puts one's own miserable and petty life in perspective( see p. 77)  It also has a bitter humour: when notified that her husband had heroically laid down his life for the first Hungarian Regiment of Hussars, the wife immediately consulted a fashion magazine and chose a black dress in the latest style (winter 1941-42) see P.67).  He also provides information on how we can dedtermine why the world is doomed to destruction - look into our own hearts, (see p.129).  Call it post-modern.  Call it difficult. But do not call it an easy read.	2004-08-24
US	52176580	R28NS07GA2OUPY	0754023818	430278994	Down Under (Paragon Softcover Large Print Books)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Informative, amusing and well written	As an Australian I am always interested in how others see our country. Mr Bryson notes that in 1996 from evidence in articles in the New York Times Australia was referred to about the same number of times as countries with a GDP about the size of New Jersey, which is to say not much at all.  But he does concede that in terms of sporting success Australia per head of population Australia leads the world.  For the first days of the 2004 Olympics it was China one, Australia two.  Canada, perhaps a comparable country, but greater population, was in the twenties.  We are also boring with Australia's dullest man as our Prime Minister.  Mr Bryson covers all the usual suspects - sharks, snakes, crocodiles, insects, sea stinging creatures, rabbits, weird politicians such as Pauline Hanson, Jim Cairns and Jo Jhelke Peterson.  But he does his homework, writes well, and does not condescend or patronize. I learned that I was born a British subject as Australian Citizenship did not exist until 1949, I learn that Aboriginal people were butchered and used as dog meat, that Myall Creek is famous not because Aboriginal people were slaughtered there but because six whites were hung for those deeds. But Mr Bryson also spends some time outlining unparalleled achievement of Aboriginal people being able to connect still with their cultural origins 40,000 years ago.  I understood too that the ten year drought of 1890 was made much worse by the millions of rabbits (originally imported from Britain in 1850 for shooting fun) which had by that time devastated the land in combination with overgrazing by millions of sheep. Maybe the land has not yet recovered.<br /><br />I hope Australians read this book.  Lots of them.	2004-08-19
US	52176580	R2OQNRLVHK5Y1I	186046050X	42809300	The Foundation Pit	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Out of fiction comes the most profound truths	If you believe that Mr Heller's CATCH 22 is the great American novel of WW2 in which the US military is depicted inter alia as another US enterprise and where the war itself is a black comedy of stumblings, errors, blunders, lies, and human folly writ large, then you will be similarly entranced by Andrey Platonov's FOUNDATION PIT.  The latter manages to find comedy in possibly the bleakest circumstances of any political system in the 20th century - a considerable feat but which gives the book a power that exceeds that of say Solzehnitzin's more elaborate, more realistic efforts.  Platonov writes - people had no wish to stay inside their huts - where they were at the mercy of their thoughts and feelings - so they walked about wherever there was some open space, trying never to lose sight of one another; at the same time they listened intently for some distant sound to ring out through the damp air and bring them comfort in the difficult spot they were in-page 92.  Such writing makes one ponder not just existence under Stalin, but one's existence period, and before we in the first world feel too smug,  we might consider the proliferation of medication to the very young to counter their anxiety, the almost insatiable lust to consume products, the laughable search for happiness amongst plenty etc etc. as THE FOUNDATION PIT has a universal reference, not just to the former Soviet system. We might ponder that it is the case that there are now two million prisoners in the land of the free and home of the brave, more prisoners than have ever been held at one time in any country in history. In THE FOUNDATION PIT, a bear serves as a most efficient and effective hammerer for a blacksmith and a little girl offers hope but doesn't survive.  It is a comic novel, but it is black, black comedy indeed, one that the gods might have conceived.	2004-08-17
US	52176580	R2P899R1TCT1RW	0393049949	762531115	Hitler: 1936-1945 Nemesis	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Outstanding writing	The skill needed to transform events into a good read whilst maintaining perspective and providing a balanced judgement from the evidence now available to scholars is clearly one of Professor Kershaw's strengths. This is an excellent biographical history to read in conjunction with social, economical and military histories of Germany in the 20th Century. I am a general reader and found this more than a worthy companion to the first, unfolding as it does, like some great Wagnerian Opera yet, full of telling detail to make the events sickenly vivid and memorable.  In brief, I recommend it because:<br /><br />* it is brilliantly written<br /><br />* it had access to diaries previously unavailable<br /><br />* it provides perspective regarding the significance of events - Dunkirk was strategically much more important than I otherwise knew - the Battle of Britain less so - the Russian campaign seminally important<br /><br />* it provides strategic analysis<br /><br />* it provides vivid detail - a local enthusiast in Lithuania clubbed to death 50 Jews in 45 minutes then hopped up on to the pile of corpses and played his accordian (p.464)<br /><br />* it reminds us of events such as Babi-Yar where 33,771 (mainly)women and children were butchered<br /><br />* it shows why Hitler did not destroy Athens<br /><br />* it shows how Stalin's deportation East of one million German-Volgas helped to galvanize action regarding the final solution.	2004-07-30
US	52176580	R1V81KIN8NQMC5	1929001134	622243337	Granta 83: This Overheating World (Granta, No.83)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cover to cover - the best written anthology available now	Something has been going on at Granta in the last three editions. I have every edition printed but in the last three this self-proclaimed organ of &quot;new writing&quot; is as good, maybe better, than it has ever been.  The last four editions, including this one and Hidden Histories (No 85) have been exemplary, rivetting and brilliant.  All deserve to be read from cover to cover which I cannot recall ever having done with any other edition of Granta .  In THIS OVERHEATING WORLD, from the piece by Bill McKibben to that by Huha al-Radi called 28 Days in Baghdad, you will be enthralled.  GRANTA is on a hot streak at the moment.  It does not get better than this.	2004-06-26
US	52176580	R2HILXG33BQIKA	0375413553	745175146	Hollywood Animal: A Memoir	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Four stories for the price of one	I'm a sucker for the shenanigans that accompany the genesis then acceptance and then production of a film, hollywood style, and this part of Hollywood Animal is a gripping, entertaining read.  The films Barton Fink and The Player making worthy accompaniment to this book.  There are however, more stories interspersed within, which I wanted out of the way, including the childhood reminscences, the fight with throat cancer and the revelations about daddy. The book has also encouraged me to revisit at least three of his films.	2004-05-30
US	52176580	R2HIJU9J1N66HN	0312422385	617724419	The Paris Review Book: of Heartbreak, Madness, Sex, Love, Betrayal, Outsiders, Intoxication, War, Whimsy, Horrors, God, Death, Dinner, Baseball, Travels, the Art of Writing, and Everything Else in the World Since 1953	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	750 pages of good writing is a bargain	Well I have never read a copy of the magazine The Paris Review but have subscribed to Granta since it started and subscribe to The New Yorker. The first story in the anthology &quot;Terrific Mother&quot; by Lorrrie Moore was enough for me to give this five stars - let's face it, where can you get such a thrill for $21?  There may be some stories, poems, interviews, that don't grab me with the same electric immediacy as that first story, but I don't have to read it from cover to cover.  It's one of those terrific bedside books as far as I'm concerned and an absolute joy to explore.	2004-04-10
US	52176580	RA4IRNAMCTTS9	0375707212	870258224	I Married a Communist: American Trilogy (2)	Books	4	7	17	N	N	Polemic, the 1950's and the loss of trust	My interest waxed and waned whilst reading this novel which I would describe as a novel of ideas rather than one driven by the interest one has in the fortune of the characters. I did not find it near as enthralling as American Pastoral.  It is generally pretty coruscating about all the characters, their motives, delusions, illusions,  - but some of its set pieces are rivetting stuff including Nathan's teacher Leo's defence of literature (p218) And the summation of the antagonism between communism (read &quot;politics) and literature (p.223).  Because it is a novel of ideas, that makes it to me, an example of what the novel is railing against - the absence of thought in media generally or as the narrator Uncle Murray tells Nathan &quot;American unthinking that is now everywhere.&quot;(p284).  Don't not read it.	2004-03-20
US	52176580	R3GBASK0RMNDW8	080504695X	713778363	A Rumor of War	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	From Camelot to Quang Nam	Mr Caputo (as in TOE) takes the reader on his journey from college to war to military inquiry and part of the power of the work is how well the language illuminates that experience.  It begins with clear, concise prose, as the young man is clear in his goals and what his country &quot;stands for&quot; ,  and rises to poetry of a kind as the narrator descends into a confused hell, where his goal becomes simple survival and he is uncertain about his country and its values.  The narrator's journey in his early twenties, is from a sobriety to a delirium  and back again but on that return, the open, trusting individual, is transformed into a cold, hardened, and cynical Nam Vet.  There is some especially good analysis of &quot;courage&quot; (p.294) and the nature of a patrol by a platoon (p.252).  The passage on 240 has a music and power which I could imagine being quoted as a classic piece of war prose/poetry in which the phrase &quot;All secure.  Situation remains the same&quot; is echoed five times throughout the piece in a kind of fugue.  Great writing which summarises the misery and the exhaustion men suffered on patrol, especially the power of the landscape and climate to overpower.	2004-02-27
US	52176580	RRVYC9DQ1RP53	0786885416	783786804	The Hungry Ocean: A Swordboat Captain's Journey	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Well written description of longline fishing and leadership	Longline fishing remains a controversial subject. The author touches on slightly the issue of over fishing but simply states that the USA has the best managed fishing regulations in the world and it's all those pesky foreigners that cause the problems.  The issue of longline fishing itself and the havoc it causes to sea life not associated with the catch is not addressed in the book.  Ms Greenlaw, however gives a very well written and detailed and fascinating exposition of the organisation, equipment, and techniques that go into a single voyage which she peppers with individual anecdotes of incidents at sea.  But, it is also an exemplary study of leadership and those who fly our planes, drive our buses and trucks, steer our ferries, or manage work sites of any kind might read this book and see how they measure up.  As my idea of a sea adventure is to catch the Manly Ferry from Manly to Circular Quay, across Sydney Harbour Australia, THE HUNGRY OCEAN also gives a real feel of the beauty and power of that beast.	2004-02-02
US	52176580	RGR09LNP6IIWX	0393324362	357767859	The Bad and the Beautiful: Hollywood in the Fifties	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Patchy but with some interest for movie lovers	If you read this book from cover to cover then you may be disappointed as not of all it new and interesting.  Nevertheless, there are some chapters which deserve the attention of movie lovers including the genesis and production of SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESS, the dalliances of SAMMY DAVIS JUNIOR as well as the struggles he endured despite being an entertainer of genius.  A book to be cherry picked and read at the airport.	2004-01-30
US	52176580	R2CMVXAT8B1EYE	0940322110	372109451	My Dog Tulip (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	2	7	23	N	N	Superb form, distressing content.	Being a dog lover but not a dog owner who believes that it is cruel to keep most dogs in an urban environment, and especially a large dog in a flat as the author did, I found this memoir not to be my cup of tea.  Humans are portrayed in it as curious, rather unsympathetic creatures, whilst the dog at the center of his love, is romanticised despite the loving detail with which the author describes the bodily functions of the animal.  I can understand though, its appeal to those with an obsession with their dog who find humans too argumentative, contrary or difficult.  An instance of &quot;horses for courses&quot; so to speak.	2004-01-28
US	52176580	R3FKW7U094PPS7	0449206122	831124856	The Penitent	Books	2	4	12	N	N	Successful diatribe about &quot;modern&quot; life	Although tagged as a novel, this work is a singular example of a polemic or diatribe even rant in the form of a monologue by one Joseph Shapiro whose target is modern America (c 1969) which country and its customs is synonymous with Sodom. Art, marriage etc in their modern manifestations are instances of how corrupt this society is.  Purity can be found in the traditional Jewish faith.  Joseph might be right.  But it doesn't necessarily make for a riveting read.  Most debates where only one side is heard, don't.  For the converted only who like the sound of their own ideas.	2003-12-28
US	52176580	RMIQ0U74NHFDI	1892145065	334919266	Harpo Speaks . . . About New York	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Sweetness and understanding of a great family	This may be an excerpt from a larger work, with which I'm unfamiliar.  I have to judge it simply on what's before me.  As one who thinks New York is the most civilized city on the planet though not as beautiful as Sydney, Australia, and who grew up, with millions of others, loving Harpo Marx, I loved this (little book).  It is quite atmospheric and gives a very clear understanding of where the Marx Brothers got their drive and energy - Mother Minnie (stagestruck) and Father Frenchie (Housekeeper, tailor and cook).  It is also a resounding example of the power of family.  A very sweet and companiable edition by The Little Bookroom.  Would make a very sweet gift as well.	2003-12-28
US	52176580	RD20RG9EVDWL3	0823053628	740182905	This is Modern Art	Books	4	7	9	N	N	It's like taking a cold shower on a sultry fetid day	As an antidote to art jargon that passes as &quot;writing&quot; whether in ART FORUM or in catalogues, Mr Collings' book is a refreshing RELIEF.  Well illustrated examples which illuminate his arguments, clear division into six sections, and an open-endedness to many issues make this a very enjoyable and informative read for the lay person who loves art. I'm immediately passing it on to one of the people I value most in the world - my 17 year old son.  Is there a better recommendation?	2003-12-14
US	52176580	RMMMG76M3VFIQ	0743244915	730119057	Jarhead: A Marine's Chronicle of the Gulf War and Other Battles	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	A telling examination of what it's like at the pointy end	There are some wildly inappropriate criticisms of this work, especially one's that say \\"It wasn't like that! I was there! I know!\\"  Mr Swofford makes it plain at the outset that JARHEAD is a recount of HIS EXPERIENCES AS A MARINE AND THEN PARTICIPANT IN OPERATION DESERT STORM. And in recounting those experiences, one may justifiably ask - does he he tell it well, does it have the ring of truth? In my view, it is a well written, honest and highly intelligent recounting.  One element of that honesty, is the way in which military training and war reduce a human to the primal animal where the desire to act out one's basest desires become a reality - whether to fight another just for the hell of it, to rape, to curse, to rage - his writing skills bring that feeling of skirting the edge quite vividly to life. Reading it also brings to mind the sickening sight of politicians and others, frequently former military personnel, far from the action Mr Swofford and his comrades experience, surrounding themselves in the trappings of uniform, or flag, and mouthing the platitudes of country, God, and honour.  Mr Swofford was a volunteer from a family which had a tradition of military service going back generations.  In recounting HIS EXPERIENCES he is successful beyond measure in giving the reader some notion of what it is like to be at the pointy end.  It is not a pleasant let alone glorious place to be where the greatest danger experienced can be friendly fire.  With 25 years military (air force) experience at the rear-rear-rear I value that recounting.  Only, I believe, one in nine military personnel in the infantry experience action anyway.  On the ground, in the sand, lugging extra boots, extra fatigues, six MRE's, six quarts of water, a disassembled M16, a 9mm pistol, the M40A1 snipe rifle, one hundred rounds of boat-tail ammunition for the sniper rifle, thirty rounds of 9mm ammunition, five hundred M16 rounds, four M67 fragmentation grenades, two smoke grenades, three green star clusters, two replacement sets of gas mask filters, a map and a patrol-order book inside a mape case, a compass, and a GPS system, with a gas mask secured to his hip, Marined Swofford tastes the mist of oil in the atmosphere, and ponders the motives for combat, reflecting on his own country's motives.  He is excellent at reminding the non-combatant that war is 99 percent of time waiting, boredom, and 1% of unbridled fear where bodily functions for even the best loose themselves uncontrollably.  One vivid image remains after reading this work, and that is Marine Swofford swirling his own vomit around his mouth before spitting it out, as if savouring his own existence, his own being in the face of death.  I have to say I rate this book very highly up there with such writers as Michael Herr and James Jones.  I also feel a certain hope that men such as Mr Swofford are able to  bring home the \\"mad scream\\" as he calls it, and give us hope that his voice and others might be heard more often over the crowd-roar of victory.star clusters, two replacement sets of gas mask filters, a map and a patrol-order book inside a mape case, a compass, and a GPS system, with a gas mask secured to his hip, Marined Swofford tastes the mist of oil in the atmosphere, and ponders the motives for combat, reflecting on his own country's motives.  He is excellent at reminding the non-combatant that war is 99 percent of time waiting, boredom, and 1% of unbridled fear where bodily functions for even the best loose themselves uncontrollably.  One vivid image remains after reading this work, and that is Marine Swofford swirling his own vomit around his mouth before spitting it out, as if savouring his own existence, his own being in the face of death.  I have to say I rate this book very highly up there with such writers as Michael Herr and James Jones.  I also feel a certain hope that men such as Mr Swofford are able to  bring home the \\"mad scream\\" as he calls it, and give us hope that his voice and others might be heard more often over the crowd-roar of victory.	2003-12-13
US	52176580	R2BXE69EHVVS81	0393046710	46961500	Hitler: 1889-1936 Hubris	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Disturbing, enlightening, and thoroughly good read.	I speak as a general reader, expert at nothing.  This volume has exactly 200 hundred pages (200) of notes and references.  It is written with clarity and with a fluid style with sufficient variation, and outstanding structure, and so is no struggle for the general reader - no purple prose, or academic dryness, and is easy to follow the logical and grammatical development of sentence, paragraph and chapter. Its topic sentences are sometimes quite memorable eg, \\"Crisis was Hitler's oxygen. He needed it to survive.\\" p. 200.  In the work, Professor Kershaw refers to housewives like Luise Solmitz, and to reporters like William Shirer and to Generals like Ribbentrop in equal measure.  We learn Hitler became a millionaire in his own right through the sales of Mein Kampf.  We learn Hitler was, apparently, responsible for breaking the shackles of Versailles, restoring military pride and making Germany a force \\"to be reckoned with\\" whilst his party was seen as corrupt and violent - this in itself, how he was able to separate himself from his party so convincingly, is measure of his political skill.  We learn (or at least I do) that Hitler introduced compulsory sterilization of the hereditary sick but that the ground had been prepared by the \\"experts\\" before Hitler took office.  This book is not just a political, or military history, but a social and economic history as well.  I suppose the study of this era in the World's history should be required reading for every citizen.  Democracy as we know it, emerged the victor at the end of the 20th century, but only by the hair of its chinny chin chin.	2003-11-18
US	52176580	R1F9J1H63S0NNK	0375506209	619428462	Diane Arbus: Revelations	Books	5	59	63	N	Y	Revealing, revelatory	I own two Arbus monographs and have lived with them for over 20 years.  Many of those works are reproduced in this volume.  There is a lot of talk about \\"the human condition\\" and I suppose all artists in one way or another wrestle with the notion.  Arbus has always meant to me someone who seemed to reveal who we are beneath the fashion, the roles, the sex, the culture.  I used one of her images as a means to illuminate a poster for a Sam Shepard play called Icarus' Mother - it was of a very young New York boy holding a toy hand grenade in a threatening way during play in Central Park - once seen never forgotten.<br />Nor will I forget her self portrait, naked pregnant, in this latest volume.  So much.  So much.  This is the volume Arbus lovers have been waiting for.  Printed in Germany, beautifully bound, positively packed with images, diary entries, extracts from letters, comment.  A bargain.	2003-11-18
US	52176580	R3MQ6CZW7B972X	0571116396	717919358	Rites of Passage	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Brilliant evocation of sea journey to Australia 1800s	I can't recall another first person narrative that is so effective in giving (apparent) authentic voice to a character as that given by Mr Golding to the young aristocrat Mr Edmund Talbot and how revealing that is of the times, the class system, dress, morality, habits, and so on, on a long sea voyage.  Details of the ship itself, the characters that people it, and the events that occasion it on its journey, are masterfully drawn (so that's where - some of us - came from!) I also laughed out loud as it is richly comic as well (Dickens would have laughed out loud too I bet!) not least in the circumlocutions used by the narrator.  A journey for him in a number of senses.  Also one of the funniest lovemaking scenes I can recall ever having read.  A joy of a novel.	2003-10-26
US	52176580	R2BTFQDMD6MRIG	0571168531	422859645	Emeric Pressburger: The Life and Death of a Screenwriter	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Entertaining and informative and well written	As is usual with many biographies, the genesis of a life is often much more interesting than its (generally successful) conclusion.  The child is father of the man as Willie Wordsworth once wrote, and Mr Pressburger was true to his origins til the day he died.  Hungarian Jew subject to the nightmare experienced by millions of fellow Europeans, he was a talented and richly cultured individual who very much made the most of his many talents, including an eye for the &quot;girls&quot;.  This is an interesting and well written biography which will appeal to those interested in cinema, European history, writing, and for those of you so inclined, the toings and froings of many of cinema's greats who were part of the  cinema partnership of Mr Michael Powell, and Mr Pressburger.  It also inspires one to have a relook at their wonderful films such as  The 49th Parallel, The Red Shoes, I Know Where I'm Going, Black Narcissus and provides an understanding into the nature of &quot;composed films&quot;.	2003-10-24
US	52176580	R34860VU5IIV51	0689000286	187216502	The Last of the Just.	Books	4	17	22	N	N	Memorable odyssey of the Jewish child in the 20th century	It is indeed strange how works about terrible events uplift the spirit.  The level, the extent and depth of pain and loss that so many have suffered, especially in the century just past,  with so many still suffering, often related to religious persecution, racism, or greed beggars one's ability to comprehend: especially those like me, born when I was, in a &quot;new&quot; country, &quot;free&quot; of many of the old ways, but not without some shame in the way those in power have maltreated our Aboriginal people. If nothing else, books such as this amazing volume by Andre Schwarz-Bart are essential reading to get our world in perspective.  In the film Schindler's List some  of the most memorable and rivettingly horrifying scenes are centred on the character played by Ralph Fiennes as the Commandant of a camp.  In his world of the concentration camp, he has absolute power.  He kills Jews on a whim, if he has indigestion, for target practice. To him they are insects.  One of the most beautiful yet horrible moments in the book is when Ernie, running away, collapses into a meadow, sees the enormity of the sky, experiences emptiness, exercises power over the exquisite insects he encounters, a lady bug he rubs, squashes, and finally annihilates until nothing but dust remains.  More and more insects he crushes, until exhausted.  He reaches  the bottom of the abyss, as a child, but rises to know the glory of love of a girl, at least once.  The book has a biblical tone but is a strange and satisying mixture of poetry and unembellished factual passages.  A memorable read.	2003-10-23
US	52176580	R1BHNZ2VQ5JPVD	0375407928	904783689	The Talented Mr. Ripley, Ripley Under Ground, Ripley's Game (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	A splendid triple treat edition worth owning	Coming to Ms Highsmith via Mr Hitchcock (Strangers on a Train, The American Friend) I was struck by the way in which the writer had me liking Mr Ripley and disliking most of the other characters in these stories, even though Mr Ripley is a liar, a murderer, a thief, a cold calculating fish who delights in deceit and undermining others, manipulating the world around him to suit his selfish ends - maybe he represents the child in us, a character who gives expression to the dark side of our nature by allowing us to live through his adventures.  He is superior, snobbish and incredibly attentive to detail.  His knowledge of the art world, of Europe as the civilised centre of the universe, and many other matters make him something of a gourmet, bon vivant, idler.  The world is just a large play pen for him to indulge his urges, but at some considerable risk.  Tremendously entertaining stories composed over a period of 20 years by Ms Highsmith  in clear stylish English make them a pleasure to read.  This excellent Everyman Edition provide these stories with a worthy home.  A bargain.	2003-10-06
US	52176580	RFPN3AN54V90C	0684852225	55789944	Close Range : Wyoming Stories	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Magic at work here in the truth and lies of &quot;the West&quot;.	Brothers Grimm dealt in folklore, myth and truth using language that confronted, that did not hide, say, an act of cannibalism, and revealed in their stories some of our fears, hopes and dreams.  Ms Proulx has, in CLOSE RANGE, created a language that reflects the nature of the characters who inhabit this landscape, a language which is cryptic, dense, and evocative and does not hide, say, an act of love between two men.  The language is a triumph, sweeping the reader along in its power, immersing the reader in the world of the rancher, cowhand, rodeo riders and sheepherders, their search for love, for money, their recognition of meaning through their work, in a landscape more of a hell than an El Dorado.  She can sum a character up in a sentence and there is more than a little humour in the hundreds of proper nouns which sparkle and colour her stories - people like Car, Skipper, Cake, Freeze, Hulse, Haul, and Wrench; places like Brokeback, Fiddle and Bow, Slope, Casper.  Vivid characterisations - Mrs Freeze and Ottaline are especially memorable but so are Jack Twist and Ennis Del Mar.  Issues such as the transformation of the west through tourism and corporate ownership make the stories resonate and the metaphor of the lumbering Cadillac slumping off into a ditch at night in the snow in minus 10 degrees weather may say more about modern man and nature than the collected works of many others.<br />There is magic at work here, no less than there is in the works of Brothers Grimm, but there's much more too.	2003-08-15
US	52176580	R2HHL8QZ7IZ3C8	0679419179	604682897	The Porcupine	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Witty but scary look at show trial phenomena	If theatre, politics, philosophy are an interest then this short novel will appeal to you.  Trials can be fascinating theatre and the purpose of  political show trials is partly to provide some relief or satisfaction for the suffering public out for revenge.  Mr Barnes is outstanding at getting inside the heads of the protagonists, and some of the funniest moments are the monologues of the accused Petkanov.  But he also provides witty asides into fashion, folklore, and history.  A great read.	2003-07-19
US	52176580	R3E35S2P6UMUXD	037571894X	858260451	A Wild Sheep Chase: A Novel	Books	4	30	37	N	N	Woody Allen and Savador Dali meet Samuel Beckett, maybe.	I like this book very much because I couldn't help identifying with the central character who reminds me in some ways of Woody Allen's screen persona - a nerdish type loser of no particular physical attraction who has a way with words and who usually gets a very attractive woman to sleep with, though he spends most of his time rueing what he HASN'T got and is continually in search of that SOMETHING.  This novel is about a quest.  About dreams.  And finally, about the realisation that life is about bugger all, so you'd better enjoy that friendship, that meal, that lovemaking, that scene, that memory, and relax a bit and have a laugh.  There are laughs aplenty in this sly book, many of the laughs are in the details such as the scene where a very damaged black moggy cat sitting on the front seat of a distinguished limousine causes  the Chauffer to lower the windows from time to time on account of the deletirious odour the cat emits from time to time in the form of brief but audible farts.<br />And I suppose, in our life we don't wander around the shopping mall thinking \\"themes\\" or \\"great and noble thoughts\\" but more like \\" Why does that woman get into the 8 item express lane when she clearly has 11 items?\\"  Incidentally, the novel is also a very likeable and satisfying read.	2003-06-29
US	52176580	R1I5JMOFKMZ6FS	039331894X	572503863	Desperate Characters: A Novel (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	Suspense, atmosphere, clarity and power	Although a short work, this novel grips the reader from the beginning because of the powerful characterisation and the Chekhovian clarity of expression and honesty of description.  Class differences, racism, envy, pride, jealousy, and most of all, a free floating anxiety pervades the rich atmosphere.  The final image of black ink dripping down a wall immediately following an embrace by the two main characters who realise they have each other and not much besides to combat a hostile world, is strangely vivid and memorable.  The city is animal like, and the innocent lonely and hungry cat attains an almost Poe like horribleness by the end of the story.  Brilliant stuff and an absorbing read.	2003-06-18
US	52176580	R3692P9CUT84W6	0679748199	79113792	Voltaire's Bastards: The Dictatorship of Reason in the West	Books	5	12	19	N	N	You want the truth? You can't handle the truth!	Some of you may remember these lines spat by the great Jack Nicholson in the climactic scene of the movie A FEW GOOD MEN, since satirised by The Simpsons, Seinfeld et al.  Of course the \\"truth\\" his character was referring to was that he and those like him, were all that kept the \\" barbarians\\" from the door, barbarians such as the poor of South America, communists, or anyone else wanting a slice of the fat American Pie. John Ralston Saul is writing of another truth - that we in the West have been complicit in creating a bizarre world where,for example,the manufacture of arms has become a major industry for many many countries and that we have been intent, not in constructing wealth, but in creating the means of our own destruction.  Every day 1000 soldiers around the world die. Over a ten year period Australia lost 400 soldiers in battle in the Vietnam War.  We have parades, build remembrances and agonise over the loss of 400. So we should.  But what of these 1000? Something is terribly, terribly wrong in our world and Saul<br />gives, I believe, some convincing reasons why. Fed as we are by the propaganda of those who profit from the world as it is, Saul's book is a refreshing and sobering reminder that we must act to change the path we are on.	2002-12-07
US	52176580	R3LTH9LV2HX8HH	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	5	34	48	N	Y	Interesting from the first page- I loved it-A must read!	As Mrs Seinfield says of her son \\"How can you not love him?\\" the reader may say as well of the protagonist of AMERICAN PASTORAL- Seymour Irving Levov. And yet long before the end we may also conclude that \\"the Swede\\" as he is affectionately called, is an unsympathetic and hollow soul. To me this book is about America. Where has she been? Where is she now? What will she become? The book also ends with questions and to some readers these questions may remain unanswered and may even be unanswerable. And yet, Mr Roth, at least to my mind, does provide some answers, at least by implication.<br />The central question asked is this:  Isn't it enough for the hero Seymour Irving Levov just to BE and to take in his life what he finds before him?<br />What does Seymour take?  In a nutshell, the bounty of being born in America at a particular time.  He takes what his father had built(a successful glove factory); he takes as his wife Miss New Jersey 1949; he takes a heritage home and a parcel of richly productive land on which to raise his family.  He leaves school at 14 in order to take up this bounty.<br />In the novel as a representative of the past, the hero's father rants about American having strayed from her \\"path\\", whilst his idealistic daughter, representative of the future, acts to give reality to her beliefs by disowning her mother and her family and becoming a \\"terrorist\\" and murderer.<br />Maybe it isn't enough to take what's offered.  Maybe there is an obligation on the Swede, and by extension on all those who enjoy the bounty.  How, when, where and to whom these obligations are directed is a larger question.<br />AMERICAN PASTORAL may be described as a novel of ideas, but to me the characters are so vivid and memorable, and the narrative so strong, that such a description amounts to a disservice. In addition, the information provided on the glove making process I found fascinating and memorable and an important element in establishing the growth of America as an industrial powerhouse. The decline of the industry too, and the whims of fashion, the effect of Jacqui Kennedy on that industry ( Camelot indeed)all helped to complete the beguiling background against which the lives of the characters are played out.<br />I found this novel a profoundly interesting and moral examination of matters crucial to the survival of those things for which America professes to stand tall - freedom, equality before the law, justice - as well as a moving creation of a range of characters. A must read.powerhouse. The decline of the industry too, and the whims of fashion, the effect of Jacqui Kennedy on that industry ( Camelot indeed)all helped to complete the beguiling background against which the lives of the characters are played out. <BR>I found this novel a profoundly interesting and moral examination of matters crucial to the survival of those things for which America professes to stand tall - freedom, equality before the law, justice - as well as a moving creation of a range of characters. A must read.	2002-10-20
US	52176580	R3V8G1N0HSQHHL	0140178139	317388917	Leviathan	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Entertaining, thought provoking and erotic	A Leviathan is a \\"sea monster\\" or whale or \\"whopper\\" and, by extension, an euphemism for \\"lie\\" or \\"liar\\".  It is not the title of this book but the title of a novel by a character in the book. Leviathan is also the title of Thomas Hobbes famous tome which examines what is meant by \\"freedom\\", power, the nature of human thought, and the exercise of power of humans in constant motion. As an artifact, Paul Auster's work has been polished until it sparkles and, like a dream, perhaps surreal, seems more real than waking life. Accordingly, I found it memorable with the writer, Auster, the power to make this work resonate.  I thought his characterisation was vivid, even the least of them, such as little Maria who, at five years of age, exercised her power in destroying a relationship between her mother, Lillian,  and novelist and serial bomber Benjamin Sachs.  Sachs is on a journey of redemption and forgiveness and charity after killing Lillian's husband, and Maria's father, Reed Dimaggio, teacher and environmental activist.<br />There are a number of stories within the novel and the characters themselves have stories of their own.  Beautiful Lillian had, for example, \\"made three different stories\\" of her break up with husband Reed, \\" one of the stories might have been real.  It was even possible that all of them were real - but there again, it was just possible that all of them were false\\" (p. 185).<br />The mosaic of the various yarns do contribute to the overall pattern and do come to a satisfying conclusion.<br />Nevertheless, the concerns with co-incidence, chance, truth, reality, and the capacity for self deception by humans are abiding themes. There is a special thanks at the front of the book to Sophie Calle for permission to mingle fact with fiction(!!!???).<br />All right already, I may be a bit peculiar but I did also enjoy the erotic element of this work. Maybe it is my appreciation of film noir heroines.<br />An engrossing and entertaining read.  Highly recommended.	2002-04-26
US	52176580	RM14OB8IUOSAW	0375404031	295818442	The Endurance: Shackleton's Legendary Antarctic Expedition	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A glorious and emotional read	On p163 of this work, the Irishman Ernest Shackleton and two of his 27 colleagues are near the end of their harrowing journey fully 18 months since they had laid eyes on another human outside their own party.  They come across the bodies of several seals bearing bullet wounds.  Shackleton later wrote of this moment that the evidence of man was often &quot; one of destruction&quot;.  The tragic irony of this comment is not lost on the modern reader as over those 18 months his &quot;betters&quot; and European Royalty were engaged in the most horrific slaughter of millions of citizens in the &quot;Great War&quot; of 1914-1918. Despite the trials that Shackleton and his 27 colleagues endured, they lived. Much of a generation of young men in Europe did not.<br />Nevertheless, the abiding memory of this book and what makes it ever so much more than &quot;overcoming adversity&quot; or a &quot;boy's own adventure&quot; is the humanity evidenced by its participants, good and not so good, but always touching. Allow me to mention just two.<br />Henry &quot;Chippy&quot; McNish, a Scot, brought his cat along on the expedition. Let it be noted that without Chippy McNish and his carpentry skills the final 17 day 900 mile voyage of the seven metre James Caird through a hurricane encountered in the most challenging ocean on earth would have been impossible. But the overriding factor in the success of the rescue of all men was clearly Shackleton's leadership throughout including putting Chippy McNish in his place following the only rebellious note in the entire expedition. But Chippy could never forgive, and never forgave, Shackleton for killing his cat which had been done to in &quot;the best interests&quot; of the expedition's survival. How human is Chippy's response!<br />The second incident concerns the leader himself.  In the period between his safe landing at King Haakon Bay, South Georgia Island on 19th May 1916 and his rescue of those remaining 22 team members waiting on Elephant Island on 30th August 1916, his hair turned white with worry in trying to organize their rescue against amazing Government and Admiralty intransigence. He wrote to his wife after the rescue &quot; I have done it.  Damn the Admiralty ... not a life lost and we have been through Hell..&quot; (p. 185). How human is that!<br />This is splendid, splendid book that should be bought in hardcover. The American Museum of Natural History are to be congratulated on their support of this work.  Caroline Alexander has done a wonderful job in telling the tale and Frank Hurley's original photographs add immediacy to the telling of it. It lacks an index.  The IMAX film SHACKLETON'S ANTARCTIC VOYAGE, a 40 minute reconstruction of the event which is frankly rivetting, might be seen as complementary to this work.Island on 30th August 1916, his hair turned white with worry in trying to organize their rescue against amazing Government and Admiralty intransigence. He wrote to his wife after the rescue &quot; I have done it.  Damn the Admiralty ... not a life lost and we have been through Hell..&quot; (p. 185). How human is that!<BR>This is splendid, splendid book that should be bought in hardcover. The American Museum of Natural History are to be congratulated on their support of this work.  Caroline Alexander has done a wonderful job in telling the tale and Frank Hurley's original photographs add immediacy to the telling of it. It lacks an index.  The IMAX film SHACKLETON'S ANTARCTIC VOYAGE, a 40 minute reconstruction of the event which is frankly rivetting, might be seen as complementary to this work.	2002-04-17
US	52176580	R2RXOORICB3BV8	0679764216	38187311	A Life of Picasso; vol. I: The Early Years, 1881-1906	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Brings to life the great artist's first 25 years	I respond as a general reader and can attest that reading this work was very much like engaging in a talk with an erudite and witty and sympathic art loving friend.  I say engaging as Mr Richardsom anticipates questions and provides explanations. He is also revealing, at least to my mind, about many of the important figures of the early 20th century, such as Gertrude Stein, but as well, the social and artistic revolutions that were occuring. Picasso himself, however, is determinedly apolitical.The illustrations are useful, plentiful and conveniently located adjacent to the text. Chapters may stand on their own - for example Chapter 28 &quot;Summer at Gosol&quot; has many interesting features that show the artist's creative energy and source of inspiration at the time, the relationship with Ferdinande contrasted with his admiration for a ninety year old patriarch of the tiny mountain village, there perilous journey by mule in and out of Gosol, the atmosphere and the creative joy that Picasso experiences, not to mention the breakthough in his work that occurs at this time. The paperback is sturdily bound and overall, as a read, I found the &quot;story&quot;, if you will, a most engaging read.	2002-04-01
US	52176580	R3C3FXUQSY80EI	0142005002	549097536	Vanity Fair's Hollywood	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Read in conjunction with Lynch's Mulholland Drive.	A delicious, witty, immensely entertaining and amusing overview of the famous and talented of Hollywood. The photos are absolutely delightful as I imagine they would be by Edward Steichen,Herb Ritts, Irving Penn and (especially) Annie Leibovitz among (many) others.  The photos seem to capture the nature of the subjects - Brando so anti glamour, Anjelica Huston so assertive, and Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon on the closing page, half naked and in drag, so so ... they're just great subjects/actors. The illustrations are also great as is the prose by Dorothy Parker, P.G. Wodehouse and others. The only disappointment is that in paperback the binding is so fragile that the weight of the pages pulls the book to pieces.  My copy has broken completely away from the covers, and not from any rough handling.  In hardcover this is a five star enterprise, perhaps one of the best I have seen considering the thousands of books that are associated with that place.	2002-02-14
US	52176580	R2NUCFWCNABA62	0679760237	279143118	In Pharaoh's Army: Memories of the Lost War	Books	5	17	22	N	N	In its truth it attains the nobility of great writing	It's a paradox that a nobility emerges out of the otherwise,occasional, despicable thoughts and feelings and actions of an individual intent on surviving the circumstances of his (ordinary?)life. Fear, envy, pride, stupidity, avarice, contempt, arrogance are some of these revealed by Tobias Wolfe in his work entitled &quot;In Pharaoh's Army - memories of a lost war&quot; which title might also be &quot; Notes on an American's life&quot;. There is another feeling: schaden freude,viz, that feeling of satisfaction one has at the misfortune of another as Mr Wolff has at the misfortune attendant on Captain Kale attempting to hook a howitzer to an airborne Chinook. I suppose in the end we, as readers, all bring to a work our own experience and tend to see different elements of it as important. Unlike &quot;war&quot; writers Mailer, or Hemingway or Jones, I see Mr Wolff's writing in the tradition of Dostoevsky or Solzenitsken or even Heller(in attitude), except that Mr Wolff brings a Hemingway clarity to his prose. He examines the nature of men working with men and the sometimes inexplicable hatred, or love, that can spring up between men working under stress. Among other things, &quot;chance&quot; plays a part in survival. There is also echoes of Huckleberry Finn ( Lt Wolff) and wise Jim (Sergeant Benet). But above all, Mr Wolff manages to reveal quite clearly his &quot;humanness&quot; in sometimes startling clarity so that the reader in recognition thinks&quot; Oh, Yes. I've known that. That's true.&quot;  It makes one's heart ache at its truth. Brilliant.	2002-02-10
US	52176580	R1LX53CBVVR2CJ	1573221937	319964836	How To Be Good	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Ideal airport lounge book	First person singular narration by English suburban middle class- wife-mother of two-general practitioner who is feeling pretty flat about everything. The zip and zing has gone out of her life - poor diddums. So what are we going to do now? Oh I know. Let's put out. That might be fun. But this doesn't work. Let's move out of the family home then. This doesn't work either. Meanwhile hubby has suddenly turned &quot;good&quot; and wants to be a better person. Invites a character called Good News to stay in the family home, whom the daughter loves and the son hates. Has a meeting of neighbours to encourage the street to support the homeless, and each other - charity begins at home (&quot;charity&quot;, it is made clear has the same Latin root as &quot;love&quot;) so we have hubby promulgating the belief of &quot;love thy neighbour&quot;. As someone once observed, &quot;don't knock Christianity, it hasn't been tried yet&quot;. The consequent actions, and reactions of the participants is funny. A very easy read, quite funny, and perfect for the airport lounge or as a read on the train to work. Very enjoyable and relaxing read.	2002-02-01
US	52176580	R2SW60FR40CM	0394583817	478370682	E. M. Forster: A Biography	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An outing to be relished - an inspirational and superb read.	If one purpose of a literary biography is to inspire the reader to return to the works of the subject of the biography with renewed enthusiasm then Ms Beauman has succeeded admirably. But her work is also a timely reminder of the significance of an artist to the health of a civilized society. In this age of &quot;outcomes&quot;, &quot;product&quot; and &quot;prioritization&quot; Mr Forster's speech as a resident honorary fellow of King's College Cambridge when proposing a toast to the health of the college must stand as a delicious ironical instance of the artist as just being - and that being enough. He said &quot; I do not belong here at all. I do nothing here whatsoever. I hold no college office, I attend no committee, I sit on no body, however solid, not even on the Annual Congregation. I co-opt not, nor am I co-opted. I teach not, neither do I think, and even the glory in which I am now arranged was borrowed from another college for the occasion.&quot; Forster's relationship with his mother together with his homosexuality loom large in Ms Beauman's analysis which is not to say that her consideration of the works is less than thorough. Indeed, her research into the genesis and development of PASSAGE TO INDIA is especially detailed and illuminating. The Forster story by Ms Beauman is one that is told with understanding, warmth and a deep humanity that was a characteristic of the subject himself. Of particular interest was when the writer, Beauman, addresses the reader,you, expressing some doubt about including rather revelatory and intimate details of Forster's sexual adventures. This is an instance of &quot;.... on the other hand it could be said...&quot; that was a trademark of Forster's method. A most enjoyable read. Dare I say I came away from reading it a better person?	2001-09-24
US	52176580	R12LZ5U7MW2ZYQ	0140442812	282196353	Persian Letters (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	25	29	N	N	A delicious entertainment	There are many reasons one might choose to read this work, including reasons associated with one's studies at University, or for its historical interest, or for its views on law and justice. But, the compelling reason for me is that it provides a level of elegant discourse with such wit and charm that I would recommend it for its value as an entertainment alone. On the Spanish &quot; Those Spaniards who do not get burnt seemed to be so attached to the Inquisition that it would be churlish to take it away from them.(p156)&quot; On History &quot; Here are the books on modern history. First you will see the historians of the church and the papacy, books which I read for edification, and which often have exactly the opposite effect on me.(p241)&quot; &quot; I observe that people here argue about religion interminably: but it appears that they are competing at the same time to see who can be the least devout.(P.101)&quot;  &quot;There is not a single Protestant ruler who does not raise more taxes from his people than the Pope from his subjects; yet the latter are poor, while the former live in opulence. With them, commerce brings everything to life, while with the others monastacism carries death with it everywhere.(p213)&quot;  This book in short is a wonderful antidote to the protestations, statements, and self-righteousness of most living politicians and religious leaders. Relax and enjoy.	2001-08-02
US	52176580	R3JAFQQE6KWIIQ	0452276322	198793250	The Statement (William Abrahams)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	OK thriller which ponders quite a few philosophical issues	The fascination one may have with say The Day Of The Jackal may not extend to The Statement. Why is this? At bottom I think it is to do with characterisation. Although The Statement is much richer in its consideration of philosophical questions, moral dilemmas, and the nature of justice, and although it is a competent thriller with some suspense, the characterisation is not especially rich which means as a consequence we, as readers, don't really have the engagement we might otherwise have. As a Belfast born Irishman, politics and religion would seem natural areas of interest for the author as they have proved to be over a writing career spanning fifty years. And they remain fascinating. On the other hand they are not enough to sustain the craftsmanship of this novel. Frankly,  I found The Statement a bit of a disappointment.	2001-07-16
US	52176580	R22HUXNWBLHKRH	055214648X	944569053	Notes from a Big Country (Bryson)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Enjoyable, witty pieces, each a tasty dessert	in the film THE BIG CHILL, Geoff Goldblum's character works for PEOPLE magazine whose editorial policy is driven by the notion that pieces for publication should never be so long that they exceed the time it takes for the average reader to take an average crap. The pieces in NOTES FROM A BIG COUNTRY fulfil this policy admirably, though they were not written for that magazine.In addition, they fulfil the criteria of consumerism that Mr Bryson frequently rails against in his potshots at American life - digestible, undemanding, bite-size pieces that require little effort and may reflect the dumbing down of his fellow citizens. At the beginning of one piece he he is interrupted by his wife who after reading the opening lines of his work in progress exclaims &quot;bitch, bitch,bitch &quot; meaning of course that he is constantly criticising, whining and bemoaning. But I think one should give pause before passing NOTES FROM A BIG COUNTRY by. Firstly, the matters touched on, environmental damage, cars, excessive consumption, etc, are concerns which probably have parallels in every capitalist country. Secondly, he is very easy to identify with in his narrator's role as ordinary, decent, family Bill trying to survive in a &quot;complex and rapidly changing world&quot;. Thirdly, he adopts a tone of self-deprecating wit that is very attractive. He is also charming and writes clear, readable prose. In conclusion dear reader, a tasty dessert rather than a main meal, but well worth the trouble.	2001-07-11
US	52176580	R1Z4384WXACV8O	0140064702	542955149	Life Is Elsewhere	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A black comedy of the artist as a young lyricist	Reminiscent of the major themes in the Hungarian film MEPHISTO,and of FAUST, this novel tracks the life and early death of the &quot;poet's mother's&quot; greatest creation, the poet Jaromil. But much of the enjoyment of it comes from the writer's understanding and sensitivities towards the human emotions that guide and control the main characters, such as the exquisite torment of the jealous lover and a mother's possessivenes towards her only child. And perhaps the most chilling moment in the novel occurs at the close of Part V after the young poet has completely humiliated and controlled the fate of his girlfriend and imagines her &quot;sitting in her cell, watched by a strange man, interrogators pulling off her clothes ...he was no longer jealous; that night, he slept the deep sleep of a real man.&quot; The title refers to graffiti found in Paris during the 1968 student uprisings. A very satisfying, and thought-provoking novel, whose themes will remain with the reader.	2001-07-09
US	52176580	R2L9RTIDRQ9ATV	0140441204	433284780	Therese Raquin (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Atmosphere abounds in this easy read	With enough suspense to keep you reading, this novel is memorable for its understanding of sexual tension and the quirkiness and contrariness of base human feelings when they are given full rein. The characters, none of them especially admirable, more like adults with the personalities of children, play out their destinies against the richly atmospheric underside of 19th century Paris. There is a certain satisfying relish in the way in which Zola plunges his characters into what will prove to be their personal hell. On Therese and her afternoons spent in adulterous sexual abandonment&quot; She recalled every detail of the afternoon's wild passion and dwelt on them one by one in her memory, contrasting that thrilling orgy with the dead-and-alive scene before her eyes (regular Thursday evening get togethers with friends of her mother-in-law and husband)..how happy she was to deceive them with such triumphant impudence&quot;. The mother of the victim, Madame Raquin, had believed in her daughter-in-law and new &quot;son&quot; as the epitome of devoted and caring &quot;children&quot;, but had seen her vision of life  reduced to nothing more than &quot;murder and lust&quot;. The use by Zola of the red scar on the neck of the murderer Laurent is a simple but effective and memorable image. Vivid, lurid, it's fun time in Zola land! A good read for that plane flight.	2001-06-28
US	52176580	R1PRNIAMAQ8DFA	4770019653	242356306	The Silent Cry: A Novel	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Weird and wonderful surreal tragi-comedy	It has been said by some that to know a country is to read its novels; far better than to read its (manufactured) history. Novels too are manufactured but novels are more likely to expose the emotional and spiritual &quot;truth&quot; of the country concerned. In THE SILENT CRY the writer OE covers much historical, emotional, social, Japanese ground but does it in such a way as to make it a wonderfully entertaining journey for the reader. I for one would love to read a Freudian criticism of it. For example, a recurring motif is suicide, in various forms, one being hanging and that image is conveyed by a the anti-hero's best friend who removed all his clothes, painted his head red, shoved a cucumber up his arse and then hanged himself; another being the anti-hero's brother who shot himself in the head the remains of which reminded the brother of a pomegranate. Such vivid imagery recurs throughout this novel. Another distinguishing feature of it is its lack of cliches, its almost poetic prose, poetic in the sense of dense. You daren't skip a phrase let alone a line. It is a rich read. Historically, the novel covers the transition from an agrarian village life to the impact of the supermarket, racism, the vulnerability of the Japanese economy (this written in 1966- in 2001 have the Japanese finally faced up to real economic reform?)foreigners, and on the cover, an artistic representation of the Hiroshima ground zero. The one-eyed hero is self-effacing and has an alcoholic wife, retarded son and is a cuckold. His brother is vain, hostile, proud, an adulterer who has sex with his retarded sister. It is true that it is reminiscent of the Cain and Abel story or the Brothers Karamazov and I think it deserves mention in that mythical company. Its themes that resonate with me most tellingly are the need for one and one's country to come to terms with the truth about the past. The anti-hero Mitsu is on a search for the &quot;truth&quot; throughout the novel.As an individual I need to come to terms with my mother's suicide as well as other aspects of my personal history. As an Australian, my nation needs to come to terms with its past and our genocidal attitude to Aboriginal Australians. The second theme for me is that constant internal worrying and guilt can be self-defeating - at the close of the novel Mitsu feels &quot;throughout the time remaining to me..a hundred pairs of eyes (of his cat, of his great grandfather, brother, wife) would glitter like a chain of stars in the night of my experience. And I would live on, suffering agonies of shame under the light of those stars, peering out timidly like a rat, with my single eye, at a dim and equivocal outer world...&quot;(p.269) Yet, at the urging of his now pregnant wife, he chooses to accept a job in Africa instead of a job at a University, symbolic I would guess of his need to accept the past come to terms with it and get on with living, for some sort of peace. Survival becomes the key to that peace. Its weird at the end too because despite all the preceding horrors, the novel's ending creates in the reader a wry grin or satisfying chuckle as the anti-hero realises with his new job he may be able to achieve an important personal goal - building a thatched hut.A memorable read.eed to come to terms with my mother's suicide as well as other aspects of my personal history. As an Australian, my nation needs to come to terms with its past and our genocidal attitude to Aboriginal Australians. The second theme for me is that constant internal worrying and guilt can be self-defeating - at the close of the novel Mitsu feels &quot;throughout the time remaining to me..a hundred pairs of eyes (of his cat, of his great grandfather, brother, wife) would glitter like a chain of stars in the night of my experience. And I would live on, suffering agonies of shame under the light of those stars, peering out timidly like a rat, with my single eye, at a dim and equivocal outer world...&quot;(p.269) Yet, at the urging of his now pregnant wife, he chooses to accept a job in Africa instead of a job at a University, symbolic I would guess of his need to accept the past come to terms with it and get on with living, for some sort of peace. Survival becomes the key to that peace. Its weird at the end too because despite all the preceding horrors, the novel's ending creates in the reader a wry grin or satisfying chuckle as the anti-hero realises with his new job he may be able to achieve an important personal goal - building a thatched hut.A memorable read.	2001-06-24
US	52176580	R2RDO0BIYS67S8	0876855575	954748344	Ham On Rye	Books	4	22	28	N	N	Every woman should read this book	Every woman should read this book but I suspect few will. Written in the form of an autobiography, which follows the life of Henry (or Hank) who grows up in a poverty stricken home, is an outsider, dreamer, and who develops a truly horrifying case of acne/boils which makes him an object of disgust as well, it is characterised by two outstanding qualities: honesty and clarity. Mr Bukowski eschews the adjective and the adverb and like another great writer of clear English, George Orwell, it is a pleasure to read. As a former boy I can relate to many experiences that young Henry has at school, with gangs, with girls, with teachers, with parents, that seem to be of universal application. The revelation he experiences when he is praised for an &quot;essay&quot; he writes at school on witnessing President Roosevelt visiting, when the essay is a complete fabrication, is  revelatory for the reader too. There are other such moments in this great read. One is when students in Henry's class share a joke with their teacher, and they laugh, and laugh, together; another is the sexual games another teacher plays with them and the boys feel they are truly in love with her, and she with them. There is much HUMANITY in this book. Compassion, sadness and the understanding of what it is to be human in the 20th century in America, is in this book.	2001-06-10
US	52176580	R339THUMY9Y7YE	0870114654	875174603	The Doctor's Wife (Japan's Women Writers)	Books	4	1	7	N	N	Please ignore the review above	The review above has been inadvertently transposed from another work and bears NO RELATIONSHIP to the book shown.	2001-04-01
US	52176580	R14OL2UM877ZDY	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Military training can help you become a chef, and have fun.	Despite much of the time sounding like a 45 year old adolescent let loose in the candy store, this book has much to recommend it. The chapters A Day in the Life, Level of Discourse and Life of Bryan are thoughtful, well written, enlightening essays on life in the trenches of a busy restaurant, the patois of the workers, and the work methods and ambience of an alternative and much admired fellow chef. A general reader can learn much about food from this very enjoyable and easy read eg &quot; commercially available chickens, for the most part..are loaded with salmonella..&quot; as well get some excellent hints from a good chef eg baked fish recipe. He is perhaps vain, but refreshingly modest, prefers home cooking, and remains unimpressed by an individuals background at an expensive private school - character is just about everything, for a cook on line. And, lets face it, the cook's life is mainly about the senses - laughter, pain, smells, sounds,tastes and sights - that one does need a strong stomache for. These are vividly brought to life by Mr Bourdain.	2001-03-08
US	52176580	R1HTQZ2UPQQ3CJ	0679728759	53277980	Blood Meridian: Or the Evening Redness in the West	Books	4	163	192	N	N	Unrelenting journey into the darker side of man	BLOOD MERIDIAN is the story of &quot;The Kid&quot;, born in Tennessee in 1833, who decamps from the home of his drunken widower father and heads south. Illiterate and, at 14, already containing within him a taste for mindless violence,The Kid begins a journey reminiscent of Dante's descent into hell. This journey begins with a flatboat ride on the Mississippi -shades of Huck Finn - shades of the Styx river where Phlegyas ferries souls into a swamp and forces them overboard into the fifth circle of hell of the WRATHFUL. On the flatboat The Kid is shot in the back and the front and survives. His journey takes him to New Orleans, Texas and Mexico. He is a soldier, then a bountyhunting marauder led by one Glanton. Wolves, dogs, bats inhabit the McCarthy landscape but the greatest horror of all, is man. There seems no limit to the savagery men are capable of and there are many scenes to attest to that: &quot; The way narrowed through rocks and by and by they came to a bush that was hung with dead babies. They stopped side by side, reeling in the heat. These small victims, seven, eight of them, had holes punched in their underjaws and were hung so by their throats from the broken stubs of a mesquite to stare eyeless at the naked sky.&quot; (p57) The shock of this is helped by the contrast of the innocuous &quot;by and by&quot; with &quot;dead babies&quot;. One has to read it over because it seems unbelievable. One major theme of BLOOD MERIDIAN may be that &quot;moral law is an invention of mankind for the disenfranchisement of the powerful in favour of the weak&quot; (p250) and that man's purpose on earth is eventually to have domain over every living thing on it - man as wrathful destroyer. Towering over the novel is the figure of &quot;the judge&quot; - God or Devil - who in the end is still towering over all, who is dancing, dancing, and who says he will never die. A Western, and not a horror story, but a Western like none I have ever read. BLOOD MERIDIAN is filled with powerful and vivid images -&quot; far to the south beyond the black volcanic hills lay a lone albino ridge, sand or gypsum, like the black of some pale seabeast surfaced among the dark archipelego&quot; (p259) Because of this, it may be helpful to describe its &quot;mis en scene&quot; with reference to the cinema. An iconic Western film that represents a mythical West is SHANE with its noble hero, simple but decent homesteaders and postcard setting. UNFORGIVEN by Clint Eastwood is an alternative and revisionist view of that West where savagery and cruelty and stupidity prevail among the people. EL TOPO adds to the savagery with surreal Biblical references. BLOOD MERIDIAN reminds one in part of EL TOPO out of UNFORGIVEN except that its savagery and power goes way beyond either. We are in the realm of imaginative literature of a high order. McCarthy's style is self consciously literary from the opening words &quot; See the child.&quot; The Biblical poetic style is reinforced with an ironic reference on the opening page to the philosophy of poet William Wordsworth - the child is father of the man - where in Wordsworth the &quot;natural&quot; man was innocent and pure uncorrupted by urban development in the form of the Industrial Revolution. McCarthy turns this on its head where the &quot;natural child&quot; who could not read or write was like a savage beast. McCarthy's point might be that man NEEDS education, urban life, what we call &quot;civilisation&quot; to become truly human. What then are McCarthy's progenitors? The Bible. Swift. Dante. Neither uplifting nor enlightening, BLOOD MERIDIAN is an unrelenting descent into the darkest side of man. A fitting work to find its place in the 20th century, the century which gave full rein to the destructive possibilities of humans.h powerful and vivid images -&quot; far to the south beyond the black volcanic hills lay a lone albino ridge, sand or gypsum, like the black of some pale seabeast surfaced among the dark archipelego&quot; (p259) Because of this, it may be helpful to describe its &quot;mis en scene&quot; with reference to the cinema. An iconic Western film that represents a mythical West is SHANE with its noble hero, simple but decent homesteaders and postcard setting. UNFORGIVEN by Clint Eastwood is an alternative and revisionist view of that West where savagery and cruelty and stupidity prevail among the people. EL TOPO adds to the savagery with surreal Biblical references. BLOOD MERIDIAN reminds one in part of EL TOPO out of UNFORGIVEN except that its savagery and power goes way beyond either. We are in the realm of imaginative literature of a high order. McCarthy's style is self consciously literary from the opening words &quot; See the child.&quot; The Biblical poetic style is reinforced with an ironic reference on the opening page to the philosophy of poet William Wordsworth - the child is father of the man - where in Wordsworth the &quot;natural&quot; man was innocent and pure uncorrupted by urban development in the form of the Industrial Revolution. McCarthy turns this on its head where the &quot;natural child&quot; who could not read or write was like a savage beast. McCarthy's point might be that man NEEDS education, urban life, what we call &quot;civilisation&quot; to become truly human. What then are McCarthy's progenitors? The Bible. Swift. Dante. Neither uplifting nor enlightening, BLOOD MERIDIAN is an unrelenting descent into the darkest side of man. A fitting work to find its place in the 20th century, the century which gave full rein to the destructive possibilities of humans.	2001-03-04
US	52176580	R2D6JH74T9BXTN	0156996936	238455713	The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Enter the mind of a great writer	On taking up this book and engaging in its words I immediately felt I was privy to the real thoughts and feelings of the narrator and those of Doctor Reis. I didn't feel as though this novel was a construct, an artifice. And the shifts in points of view, the different punctuation, the ghosts, the gloom, the lack of plot all give substance to the feeling that the writer is one of incredible sensitivity to what it means to be Dr Ricardo Reis. One quote - &quot;Ricardo Reis takes stock of his own ambitions and concludes that he craves nothing, that he is content to watch the river and the passing ships, the mountains and the peace that reigns there, yet he feels no happiness inside him, only this dull insect-gnawing that never stops.&quot;(p278) Added to this are the concerns that face individuals in the modern world, such as the sense of terror engendered by the State and its bureaucratic need to know all, which Saramago brings out so well. Tenderness towards the characters - the two lovers, the concierge, the hotel guests, the lonely policeman on his nightly rounds, even the taxi driver - also help to make this a moving and rich reading experience.	2001-02-14
US	52176580	RIXVYMNVACYVY	1555533809	947653322	Reminiscing In Tempo: A Portrait of Duke Ellington	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Musicians tell Duke's story - no holds barred.	There are a handful of books about jazz which provide musical insights and feelings and opinions which pull the reader into the lives of those who do the job of making music - still probably the best is HEAR ME TALKIN' TO YA edited by Shapiro and Hentoff along with Stuart Nicholson author of A PORTRAIT OF DUKE ELLINGTON Reminiscing in TEMPO. Another is STRAIGHT LIFE, the story of ART PEPPER. This is not to deny the brilliance of FOUR LIVES IN THE BEBOP BUSINESS or MR JELLY LORD, but it is hard to match the excitement of reading the words of those who made the music, judiciously edited of course. A PORTRAIT OF DUKE ELLINGTON is up there with the best books I've read on jazz. Its added value is that its subject is one of the most important musicians of the 20th century. Its fascination is how his creative juices were pushed by the imperatives of the time - deadlines were something the Duke apparently thrived on. On the other hand, pigeonholing may have held him back from becoming an even greater composer. Some of the great scenes in the book include one recounted by Sonny Greer on a performance in England when the band preceding them on the programme suddenly stopped in the middle of its performance to play God Save the King - The Prince of Wales (nicknamed the Prince of Wails by Fats Waler I believe) had entered the auditorium. But this was nothing to the reception that the Ellington band received when it performed. They were not used to ten minute standing ovations. There's no getting past the fact that Europeans, or music lovers outside the States, seem to have taken &quot;jazz&quot; or &quot;modern improvised music&quot; much more seriously than the place of its birth. This may still be the case today. A PORTRAIT OF DUKE ELLINGTON also contains editorial factual comments, examples of bill posters, advertising, and a series of FBI Memoes which would be hilarious if they were not so frighteningly stupid. A PORTRAIT OF DUKE ELLINGTON is also an excellent social history of the time from the 20's to the 70's, at least from the perspective of members of the Ellington Orchestra. Vivid and touching portraits abound, including Junior Raglin, Bubber Miley, and Sweet Pea Strayhorn. There are a few guffaws, many chuckles and a few tears in this wonderful book. Especially for music lovers, but any intelligent reader would find much to enjoy about one story of America's greatest cultural contribution to the century past.ry of the time from the 20's to the 70's, at least from the perspective of members of the Ellington Orchestra. Vivid and touching portraits abound, including Junior Raglin, Bubber Miley, and Sweet Pea Strayhorn. There are a few guffaws, many chuckles and a few tears in this wonderful book. Especially for music lovers, but any intelligent reader would find much to enjoy about one story of America's greatest cultural contribution to the century past.	2001-01-25
US	52176580	RZADT0XCTT7T8	0520043545	500907885	Moby Dick; or, The Whale	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A story which deserves to be read in this edition	Some books need to be read in hardcover. Moreover, some deserve the loving attention and craftsmanship that have gone into this reissue of an original American printing classic. I lingered over this novel, twice, relishing the handset Goudy Modern type, and the illustrations, and the smell of the paper albeit typographic reproduction of the original,and I will return again. On entering the fantastic ( I use that world advisedly - eg, as in visionary, extravagant)world of Mr Melville's version of 19th century whaling on the one hand, and the mind of Captain Ahab through the eyes of Ishmael on the other, one is driven relentlessly forward to the inevitable battle between man and nature and man and himself. Startling imagery, evocative detail, and narrative drive seem to power the story off the page into one's mind, indelibly. A great story lovingly retold in this fine edition.	2000-12-09
US	52176580	RIVJZ5R42UHME	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	I remember now why I read	Half way through this book I thought &quot; I remember now why I read.&quot; At once suspenseful - I wanted to know page by page What Next? Why? Who? When? How? - and philosophical - not philosophical in the sense of &quot;How many angels will fit on the end of a pin?&quot; but philosophical in the sense of &quot; What is a human? Does life, including animal life, matter?&quot; cf Primo Levi, as well as forcing the reader to reflect on one's own motives, desires, attitudes, values. I remember that reading provides the richest source of answers to all questions, and adds much to one's own journey. I'm going to leave it for a month and reread this work.	2000-11-03
US	52176580	R5LN1MD6S3XX9	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Far superior to the infantile movie of the same name	What is more interesting, dear reader, some macho airhead yahoo yelling into the face of a giant wave about to crush him, or a well written  analysis of the birth, life and death of that wave and its effect on the  environment? Well, yes, you may prefer the yahoo, then go see the movie and  watch George Clooney as fishing boat skipper Billy Tyne scream from the  pilothouse of the 72foot ANDREA GAIL at the biggest wave in 100 years to  &quot;bring it on&quot;. Oh yeah. As if. The infantile film of THE PERFECT  STORM should not turn you off what is a very interesting and beautifully  crafted book. It covers a number of important issues. Among them: longline  fishing and its consequences for fish stocks; global warming; weather  forecasting and reporting; search and rescue strategies and training. In  addition it is a highly informative text on a part of the commercial  fishing industry, the physics of waves, the physiology of drowning, the  British &quot;Manual of Seamanship&quot;, the history of incidences and  accidents that have occurred on the Grand Banks on the Atlantic Seaboard.  But the climax of the book for me, was the incredible heroism and  professional dedication of the Air National Guard pilots and crew and their  pararescue jumpers, and the Coast Guard. The efforts of chopper pilot Dave  Ruvoli of the Air National Guard and Commander Brudnicki captain of the  1600 ton Coast Guard Cutter TAMAROA with their skill, teamwork and  concentration in the face of extraordinary danger are wondrous and  rivetting to read about. Australians witnessed similar heroism in rescues  during a Sydney-Hobart ocean yacht race in the late 1990's. Questions hover  after this excellent book: was Ray Leonard, skipper of SATORI, right or  wrong to want to stay aboard his yacht which survived the storm? Then  there's the general question (moral? financial?) of rescue personnel  risking their lives over those sailors who proved to be irresponsible in  some way - inadequate skills, unserviceable equipment, affected by drugs or  alcohol -or just plain macho foolish. In the face of this what value the  likes of pararescue jumper Rick Smith? Anyone even vaguely interested in  the sea should read this book. For others, it's thoroughly exciting just as  an adventure story.unserviceable equipment, affected by drugs or  alcohol -or just plain macho foolish. In the face of this what value the  likes of pararescue jumper Rick Smith? Anyone even vaguely interested in  the sea should read this book. For others, it's thoroughly exciting just as  an adventure story.	2000-09-19
US	52176580	R3BRLXA70YNAUM	1567311032	27280118	Robert Frost: Seasons : Poems	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Perfect  match of verse and pictures	According to my trusty and well worn Concise Oxford Dictionary &quot;exquisite&quot; means &quot;of consummate excellence or beauty&quot;.  I looked the word up because it was the word that came to mind whilst  enjoying this work. Much pleasure to return to many familiar poems of  Robert Frost eg MENDING WALL and STOPPING BY WOODS ON A SNOWY EVENING and  to discover unfamiliar gems such as BEYOND WORDS. But the photos too have a  clarity and depth and composition not to mention colour which helps the  contemplative richness of Robert Frost's words.  And not a human in sight!  Especially rewarding work for those moments of repose, of calm, when one  wants to escape the hurly burly, the flim flam, the gibbering and  bustle,and drift, dissolving into the natural world.  But, returning to the  world of commerce,  I can tell you this book is a bargain.	2000-08-16
US	52176580	R1FVHJSM7LDVRK	0805051120	776446701	The World, the World	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Civilised urbane man and travel writer extraordinaire	At the end of this splendid autobiographical travel book, the author explains his compulsion to travel to his Brahmin companion &quot;It's the  pull of the world. I spent most of my childhood on my own, and some of it  was in the mountains of Wales. I would go exploring with the idea in my  head that the farther I was from home the better it would be.  The next  valley would always be wilder. The lake would be bottomless, and I would  find a mysterious ruin, and there would be ravens instead of crows in all  the trees. Now it's not just the Black Mountains of Dyfed, but the  world.&quot; In this book that pull takes him to a bleak, windswept ancient  fort in a bay in South West Wales where he writes; to Cuba where he meets  an expatriate American official executioner, former Macy employee; to the  exquisite countryside of Vietnam of the 1950's; to Bangkok and its sex  industry; to Brazil and, in concert with one of the great photo-journalists  in history Don McCullin, recalls their expose to the world of the genocide  against tribal peoples of Brazil, and demonstrates the power of writing and  the good that can come therefrom. His opinions include his opposition to  the destructiveness of Protestant fundamentalist sects as missionaries and  disdain for the barbarians of Essex in the 1960's riding to the local hunt  willy nilly over gardens. His insights are sometimes revalatory - he  analyses some speeches of Castro and finds them sprinkled with jokes and  quotes from Burke, Rousseau, Juvenal, and Shakespeare and claims Castro is  the greatest orator since Demosthenes.  This contrasts remarkably with the  impression I gained from the American press over the years who simply  described his speeches as interminable and boring. What a difference an  open mind can make to a perspective on the world. His travel companions  included Lord Snowden who is revealed somewhat as a spoiled and moody but  talented adolescent. His writing skill I would compare to Somerset Maugham  but without the snobbery and sarcasm. He is one of the most graceful and  skilled travel writers in the language.  Pervading all is his sense of  graciousness, humanity, and generosity of spirit. The World, The World is a  wonderful read.but without the snobbery and sarcasm. He is one of the most graceful and  skilled travel writers in the language.  Pervading all is his sense of  graciousness, humanity, and generosity of spirit. The World, The World is a  wonderful read.	2000-08-06
US	52176580	R1414S463FFY54	0670868043	850510510	The American Heritage New History of the Civil War	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Engrossing and revalatory experience for general reader	With a pitiful knowledge of the Civil War based on various movies featuring the likes of Randolph Scott and Clark Gable, I was interested in reading an historical text about this defining American event. I was lucky  in choosing this lavish volume to do so. With a lucid narrative by the late  Bruce Catton as its centre, this Heritage volume has the added advantage of  illuminating that text with art (Winslow Homer et al),photos,drawings,  maps, cartoons, bills, newspapers, and illustrations of significant battles  which are a model of their kind. Whilst the art tends to romanticise (cf  the evocative NIGHT BIVOUAC OF THE SEVENTH REGIMENT NEW YORK AT ARLINGTON  HEIGHTS, VIRGINIA by Sanford Robinson Gifford) the photos reveal the horror  and pity of the event and are stunning in their power. Added to this  are,from time to time, the words of poet Walt Whitman. Whilst some  historical facts may appear confusing - on p286 the illustrated map tells  us that Stonewall Jackson was &quot;fatally wounded&quot; by one of his own  pickets; on p 282 Stonewall Jackson is &quot;mortally wounded (2May), shot  down by his own troops in the confused fighting&quot;; and on p 289 (10  May) Stonewall Jackson dies of pneumonia, albeit, weakened by wounds. Be  that as it may, many of the details provided by the works supplementing the  central text are fascinating in allowing the reader to realise the effects  of war on the the populace and the consequences this must have had on the  psyche of generations to come.<br />Item: WOMEN of the South ran out of PINS  and walked around with downcast eyes looking for PINS. Thorns were gathered  and dried to use as PINS. Item: CONSCRIPTION: In the South conscription was  well implemented, in the North it was a DISGRACE. If drafted, a man could  get out of it for $300 or hire a substitute to take his place.  The COLORED  ORPHAN ASYLUM on FIFTH AVENUE was attacked and burnt because of  conscription exempting blacks. Item: PRISON CAMPS: 55,000 soldiers died in  the prison camps of the North and the South, the conditions of which  rivalled Nazi Concentration camps, indeed may have been worse. Item: BATTLE  OF CHATTANOOGA - an uphill &quot;miracle&quot; of courage by Union  soldiers. The South lost the war not through want of courage and skill but  because the war &quot;wore it out&quot;. Not one mile of railroad was  produced in the Confederacy during the war. The moral dimension of slavery  may have been another factor but only in the latter half of the tragedy.  Again, the Union navy played a pivotal role which I for one was completely  unaware of. Reading this work has been an engrossing and revalatory  experience for me.rs died in  the prison camps of the North and the South, the conditions of which  rivalled Nazi Concentration camps, indeed may have been worse. Item: BATTLE  OF CHATTANOOGA - an uphill &quot;miracle&quot; of courage by Union  soldiers. The South lost the war not through want of courage and skill but  because the war &quot;wore it out&quot;. Not one mile of railroad was  produced in the Confederacy during the war. The moral dimension of slavery  may have been another factor but only in the latter half of the tragedy.  Again, the Union navy played a pivotal role which I for one was completely  unaware of. Reading this work has been an engrossing and revalatory  experience for me.	2000-07-21
US	52176580	R1OGWFOHIDLRNG	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Read this before touring the USA by car	After reading this waggish travel book I've made up my mind to see the Grand Canyon - one day -and never to eat food provided by any establishment connected to a highway especially if the food is described as a  &quot;Pastie&quot; cf English cuisine. Travelling through 38 states driving  his mother's Chevette, sleeping in motels, visiting tourist sites, national  parks and towns he renames to protect the innocent, Mr Bryson's candid  comments, fun about local accents ( &quot; how doo yew lack Mississippi?),  potted statistics and historical info make for an enjoyable read.  Most  amusing bits to me: his interaction with waitresses. &quot; The hostess  came over.  She was chewing gum and didn't look over friendly. ' Help you?'  She said. 'I'd like a table for one, please.' She clicked her gum in an  unattractive fashion. 'We're closed.' 'You look pretty open to me.' 'It's a  private party. They've (the Shriners) reserved the restaurant for the  evening.' ' I'm stranger in town. Can you tell me where else I can get  something to eat!' She grinned, clearly pleased to be able to give me some  bad news. 'We're the only restaurant in Sundance' she said.	2000-07-10
US	52176580	R35M1VEJKCEA8Q	0930773012	887980790	Forty Fathom Bank	Books	4	0	0	N	N	With two men on a boat with a knife - watch out!	The great appeal of this &quot;little&quot; book rests on three main things. Firstly it makes first class drama - like KNIFE IN THE WATER, it has unity of time, action and place. 48 hours on a boat with a stranger and  his knife - the 29 year old narrator does not know what he's let himself in  for. Secondly it pays great attention to marine jargon and knows the  subject of fishing. Thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, the reader is  able to follow the ebbing and flowing of the thoughts and feelings of the  narrator on this emotional and philosophical journey. This novella is  good  enough to be used as a study text by High School literature students. Read  it in one sitting and enjoy. Oh, I forgot to mention, the presentation of  it by Chronicle Books, San Francisco is such that it is good to look at,  touch and retain. It would make an excellent gift.	2000-06-23
US	52176580	R2E924IMV8Z6R1	0679760377	572624538	Jack Maggs: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Atmospheric melodrama satisfying read	A melodrama suitable to the 19th century genre full of mystery, letters, coincidences, and reeking with atmosphere not to mention quite a collection of interesting Victoriana especially London minutia. With short  &quot;chapters&quot; the plot moves along very nicely, thank you. Shifts in  narrative voice help hold the interest and the characters are memorable.  Some theoretical interest regarding &quot;truth&quot; and  &quot;fiction&quot;. A pretty good read.	2000-06-21
US	52176580	R1ZOMFF3S6SMVU	0226043835	3608449	Extinction: A Novel (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A joyous read and a great work	There is great joy to be had from this wonderful book.  Its first joy is its prose - sparkling in its clarity, musical, effortless - which carries one along on a journey through the thoughts and feelings of Viennese 48  year old Franz-Joseph Murau.  Intellectual resident of Rome, alienated by  choice from his Austrian family, friend to Archbishop Spadolini(who is also  his mother's lover!), he receives a telegram that his father, mother and  brother have died in a car accident making him at one stroke inheritor of  the family's wealthy estate. He is now MASTER OF WOLFSEGG. The first half  of the novel THE TELEGRAM concerns his recollections of childhood and  relationships and events that shaped his life. Example: &quot; At first we  always tell ourselves that our parents naturally love us, but suddenly we  realise that, equally naturally, they hate us for some reason - that is to  say,  we appear to them as I appeared to mine, as a child that didn't  conform with their notion of what a child should be, a child that had gone  wrong. They had not reckoned with my eyes which probably saw everything I  was not meant to see when I opened them. First, I looked in DISBELIEF, as  they say, when I stared at them, and finally, one day I SAW THROUGH THEM,  and they never forgave me, could NOT forgive me.(p 76)&quot; The second  half of the novel THE WILL concerns his attendance at the estate where he  oversees the funeral and greets and reflects upon the range of visitors  paying their respects.<br />Example: &quot;In ROME I often lay on my bed,  unable to stop thinking of how our nation was guilty of thousands, tens of  thousands, of such heinous crimes, yet remained silent about them.  The  fact that it keeps quiet about these thousands and tens of thousands of  crimes is the greatest crime of all, I told my sisters.  It's this silence  that's so sinister, I said. It's that nation's silence that's so terrible,  even more terrible than the crimes themselves.(p 231)&quot; This bare  outline of the two parts cannot prepare you, dear reader, for the  experiences of this novel. It is as if one becomes privy as another  Viennese Mr Freud did, to the real secrets of the heart of an individual,  an individual nevertheless, shaped by the world in which he was born but  determined to realise some truths about that world. WE are privy then to  the feelings, equivocations, doubts, fears, guilt and searching.  It is a  revalatory experience, scaldingly honest, which provides one man's analysis  of 20th Century Austrian culture, including National Socialism, the class  system, religion, architecture, cuisine et al.  Sometimes mocking,  sometimes self excoriating, sometimes savagely funny, we travel with Mr  Murau through his thoughts and feelings at this turning point in his  history.  In the end, Mr Murau makes a stunning act of redemption which  concludes his statement and rounds off this wonderful work of literature on  a joyous note. Please accompany, or perhaps follow,this novel with a large  dose of HAYDN. Most modern novels pale into the ordinary compared to this  work.bare  outline of the two parts cannot prepare you, dear reader, for the  experiences of this novel. It is as if one becomes privy as another  Viennese Mr Freud did, to the real secrets of the heart of an individual,  an individual nevertheless, shaped by the world in which he was born but  determined to realise some truths about that world. WE are privy then to  the feelings, equivocations, doubts, fears, guilt and searching.  It is a  revalatory experience, scaldingly honest, which provides one man's analysis  of 20th Century Austrian culture, including National Socialism, the class  system, religion, architecture, cuisine et al.  Sometimes mocking,  sometimes self excoriating, sometimes savagely funny, we travel with Mr  Murau through his thoughts and feelings at this turning point in his  history.  In the end, Mr Murau makes a stunning act of redemption which  concludes his statement and rounds off this wonderful work of literature on  a joyous note. Please accompany, or perhaps follow,this novel with a large  dose of HAYDN. Most modern novels pale into the ordinary compared to this  work.	2000-06-12
US	52176580	RW0GLD0ZV6CQQ	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Intellectual froth tops off cool detective adventure	If the novel THE CLUB DUMAS were a script pitch for a movie we might say it is ROSEMARY's BABY out of THE BIG SLEEP via RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARC. Lies, forgery, duplicity abound as does the mystery man, mystery woman,  something seen, something half-remembered. Where am I? Is this happening?  There's a scene in THE BIG SLEEP when Humphrey Bogart flips up the front  brim of his usually cool fedora, puts on a pair of borrowed glasses, and  enters a &quot;rare book store&quot; which fronts for a porno outlet.  He  tests the knowledge of the assistant in the book store by asking her for an  non-existent esoteric rare edition of a well known historical text.  She of  course cannot answer one way or the other. THE BIG SLEEP is an excellent  parallel for THE CLUB DUMAS in other areas as well - both have complicated  plots, devious but beautiful females, cigarettes (The burning tip of his  cigarette lit up his fingers in the darkness.  He kept the smoke in his  lungs as long as he could, then exhaled, watching the patterns it made in  the segment of light above the bed.), a number of inexplicable murders,  guns and wit (in one scene when making love our intrepid anti-hero Corso  relates his temporary impotence to an historical military skirmish thus:  &quot; Very carefully he lay down next to her tanned, warm body waiting in  the dark and used what the emperor, out on the muddy fields of Flanders,  would have called an indirect-approach tactic - sizing up the terrain from  the middle distance and making no contact in the critical zone.  From a  prudent distance he played for time in case Grouchy arrived with  reinforcements; he caressed the girl and kissed her unhurriedly on the  mouth and neck.  But no luck. Grouchy was nowhere to be seen.  The old fool  was chasing Prussians miles from the battlefield.&quot; The protaginist in  THE CLUB DUMAS, one Lucas Corso, is a (Bols) gin swilling, hip, book  detective, who rarely takes a bath but who is not averse to making the  beast back to back with leggy Lauren Bacall lookalikes.  The minor  characters too are worthy of THE BIG SLEEP. But there's more. If, dear  reader, you too are are one who likes the look, touch, smell of books then  THE CLUB DUMAS is a real treat as it spends considerable time covering  aspects of literary history, and bookmaking esoterica.  All of the above is  topped off with an intellectual froth of point of view, authorial purpose,  appearance and reality, and deja vu. A significant theme of the novel is  the willingness of the reader to submit to the suspension of disbelief. Not  to do so is to be a loser.  Reading is a game. Thus it is a very serious  activity, indeed, a character asserts that games are &quot;the only serious  activity.&quot; So if there is a thematic heart to this romp it is &quot;if  you want to play, you have no choice but to follow the rules.  Only the  person who respects rules, or at least knows and applies them, can win.  Reading a book is the same: you have to accept the plot and the characters  to enjoy the story.&quot; Dear reader, give yourself up to Arturo  Prerez-Reverte and enjoy the story. It's quite an adventure.back to back with leggy Lauren Bacall lookalikes.  The minor  characters too are worthy of THE BIG SLEEP. But there's more. If, dear  reader, you too are are one who likes the look, touch, smell of books then  THE CLUB DUMAS is a real treat as it spends considerable time covering  aspects of literary history, and bookmaking esoterica.  All of the above is  topped off with an intellectual froth of point of view, authorial purpose,  appearance and reality, and deja vu. A significant theme of the novel is  the willingness of the reader to submit to the suspension of disbelief. Not  to do so is to be a loser.  Reading is a game. Thus it is a very serious  activity, indeed, a character asserts that games are &quot;the only serious  activity.&quot; So if there is a thematic heart to this romp it is &quot;if  you want to play, you have no choice but to follow the rules.  Only the  person who respects rules, or at least knows and applies them, can win.  Reading a book is the same: you have to accept the plot and the characters  to enjoy the story.&quot; Dear reader, give yourself up to Arturo  Prerez-Reverte and enjoy the story. It's quite an adventure.	2000-06-04
US	52176580	R3N11O24KGDOF4	0312194544	548171677	Fritz Lang: The Nature of the Beast	Books	4	3	9	N	N	Comprehensive, balanced, intelligent bio of film genius	Did you know, dear reader, that Fritz Lang invented the backward countdown that is now a staple of blastoff protocol? We can't ever say art doesn't influence life! It becomes clear though that Mr Lang tried very hard to  influence the facts so that some important parts of his lifescript were  rewritten to make a better story. For example, his &quot;escape&quot; from  Nazi Germany which reads like an inferior Hitchcock.  But no less than  Braque or Malevich in painting, film artists deserve study too. There are  many problems facing the student of the latter however, as the film making  process might involve thousands of individuals - the analysis can be quite  daunting not to mention whose perspective is the more valid amongst the  thousands. Author Mr McGilligan is up to the task. It may be that the  qualities of Mr Lang revealed by his research - fastidious attention to  detail, healthy ego, obsessive number of takes, authoritarian manner on the  job - may be the very ones that made him many enemies as well as a great  movie maker. Henry Fonda for one loathed Mr Lang 'til the day he died. Mr  McGilligan overcomes the problem of what is &quot;true&quot; by giving the  reader the best evidence of alternative viewpoints and invites the reader  to choose. For example, Mr Lang may have murdered his first wife, or she  may have committed suicide with his gun after discovering him and his  mistress flagrante delicto.  Either way Mr Lang was in some ways a nasty  piece of work.  He was also elegant, intelligent, a high decorated Viennese  war hero, art collector, painter, of Jewish ancestry on one side of his  family, who fully participated in the decadence of 1920's Berlin, and  1930's Hollywood.  His appetite for sex and drugs is covered in the book.  Even in old age he accepted the &quot;services&quot; of an admiring fan and  frequented prostitutes almost to his last days. Nevertheless, the creator  of TESTAMENT of DR MABUSE, METROPOLIS, RANCHO NOTORIOUS and THE BIG HEAT  was a great enough talent to be paid homage to by GODARD and BUNUEL.  Whether your taste runs to the production process of film making, the clash  of huge egos, eg, Spencer Tracy V Fritz Lang, gossip, or a part-history of  20th century cinema, or analysis of the life and work of one of its great  artists, then this book is a real treat.AT  was a great enough talent to be paid homage to by GODARD and BUNUEL.   Whether your taste runs to the production process of film making, the clash  of huge egos, eg, Spencer Tracy V Fritz Lang, gossip, or a part-history of  20th century cinema, or analysis of the life and work of one of its great  artists, then this book is a real treat.	2000-05-24
US	52176580	R3HVXLQ0U3TJ82	0879515597	779135072	Hunters and Gatherers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Intriguing, funny and well-crafted novel hits the spot	This is a story about a writer who is collecting stories about people who collect things.  Things such as cars, beer cans, lovers, sounds, knickers,information,even a man who collects Martini Recipes: &quot; I made  a series of variations on the Martini theme for this guy.  I became  familiar with the Naked Martini, the Trinity, the de Luxe, the Gibson, the  Perfect, the Gordon, the Somerset and the Queen. We could have had the  International but I was clean out of absinthe. I was initiated into the  mysteries of the vermouth rinse and the vermouth spray, and told of barmen  who merely SHOW the vermouth  to the gin. I was lectured on the  significance of bitters, the twist of lemon peel and the cocktail  onion.&quot;(p66 Paperback Edition).  In the event, the barmen, our hero,  gets irritated with the arrogance of the customer, urinates in one martini  which the customer mistakes for yellow Charteuse and promptly hurls the  drink into our hero's face who relaliates by throwing the jug full of the  special mixture over the customer.  A melee ensues. Apart from the sheer  joy of the characters and their situations, it does make one reflect on the  obsession which is the novel's themes:  Imelda Marcos and her shoes, Pol  Pot and his skulls, Elizabeth Taylor and her husbands, me and my ?  You and  your...? A very enjoyable read.	2000-05-11
US	52176580	RE112QI4LFMJO	0375701141	643771163	Night Train	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A woman must walk down these mean streets.	Lovers of wise-cracking gumshoe fiction (cf Lemmy Caution by British writer Peter Cheyney or Philip Marlowe by Raymond Chandler) will feel right at home with NIGHT TRAIN. The language is in the first person singular and the argot of American police, but there, similarities start to wane. The  slang used by Detective Mike Hoolihan doesn't quite gell. In addition  Detective Mike is a woman. Not only is she a woman, but true to the genre  she tries to sleep with a suspect. Unlike, the genre she's given to  confiding with the reader about her childhood.  She was sexually abused by  her father over a long period of time during her pre-pubescent childhood.  But wait, there's more.  She loves her father very much, still.  She's  drawn to investigate a suicide of the most beautiful naked female and  thoroughly talented individual she's ever encountered. The victim is the  daughter of her former boss. We are reminded a number of times that the  victim has a body Venus De Milo would die for, arms or no arms. Morever,  she killed herself by shooting herself in the head ...wait for it ......  THREE TIMES. Eh?  That's right.  Now read on ...... A book worthy of that  two hour flight. Enjoy.	2000-05-03
US	52176580	R3FYJRX13ZKTO1	0060955228	535077019	Under the Volcano (Perennial Classic.)	Books	5	32	36	N	N	The tragedy of a man in the 20th century	Suddenly with a gun or slowly using other means, including alcohol, why does a man(I use the term generically) self-destruct?. Why was there virtually no suicides among occupants of Nazi concentration camps? Camus asserted there was only one important philosophical question and that was suicide. The protagonist in UNDER THE VOLCANO, Geoffrey Firmin ponders  &quot; Why am I here, says the silence, what have I done, echoes the  emptiness, why have I ruined myself .....................&quot; (p342) Suffused with superstition, mystery,  bizarre  activities set on the Day of the Dead in Mexico at the foot of a Volcano,  with echoes of guitar music, and dead dogs, images reminiscent of an  hallucinatory carnival from Alice in Wonderland, colour, horror, sounds,  this is a novel rich in atmosphere. &quot; A sound like windbells, a  ghostly tintinnabulation reached their ears.&quot;(p324) &quot;Three black  vultures came tearing through the trees low over the roof with soft hoarse  cries like the cries of love.&quot; p151 And telling and true insights like  &quot; It's amazing when you come to think of it how the spirit seems to  blossom in the shadow of the ABBATTOIR&quot;.P91 A profoundly moving novel  which must rank as one of the great novels of the 20th century so well is  it crafted and so telling its story.	2000-04-28
US	52176580	R1T7U0ZP3JL81I	0312928637	117650121	Brando: A Life in Our Times	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Light weight fare cashing in on genius	This is a just passable examination of Mr Brando's life and is redeemed by the writing on his early theatre work.	2000-04-27
US	52176580	R2RR5JID0GL8VS	0394583493	219727829	Woody Allen: A Biography	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Reasonable bio of one of America's great artists	It's a commonplace that many artists have questionable private lives. What Mr Allen does or doesn't do in his private life is of passing interest to me. That he likes younger women doesn't make him much different, maybe unfortunately, from millions of other men (is Rupert Murdoch a classic  example or what?) If I want gossip I read a magazine. Mr Allen's work on  the other hand interests me very much. This bio by Mr Lax is good for  excerpts from Mr Allen's comedy routines and in revealing the movie making  experience from the editting point of view, shooting, casting, writing and  rewriting. I don't think the prose skill of Mr Lax is especially high but  the book's subject matter is interesting enough, and Woody Allen's writing  amusing enough, to carry it along.	2000-04-27
US	52176580	R34YV924FGP7R5	0312163568	387840817	Pursued by Furies: A Life of Malcolm Lowry	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Justice done to great novelist	I read this because I remain convinced that Mr Lowry's novel UNDER THE VOLCANO is one of the great tragic works of literature of the 20th century and its power remains with me after 30 years. In this biography the alcoholic writer's creative process is revealed in detail as well as his  determination to destroy himself - in detail. I've often thought of  Geoffrey Firmin/Malcolm Lowry as the essential 20th century man - we came  close to destroying the world last century but failed. This is a solid well  written biography and suits the general reader.	2000-04-27
US	52176580	R220IFHVO7P8XW	0140442804	986794591	The Debacle	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Superb war novel	This is a brilliant, and vivid examination of the Franco-Prussian War of 1870 through the eyes of lower class Jean (Cpl) and lower middle class Maurice. I must place it as one of the best novels on war I have ever read, up with WAR AND PEACE and FROM HERE TO ETERNITY.	2000-04-27
US	52176580	R2V0YSXBTBMFGB	0553212699	134276149	The Return of the Native (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	This is a must read for those who love love	Mr Hardy's writing has a density and quality and power which draws one in to the Wessex world with an uncanny and memorable effectiveness. His writing also has a truth about it because of his deep knowledge and love of the land in the South West of England and the working habits and practices  of those who lived on and from it. This is a brilliant novel of love and  human envy set on Egdon Heath with such memorable characters as The  Reddleman who is somewhat like an avenging angel. Rivetting and powerful  writing of the highest order, with a gripping plot and a satisfying  resolution.	2000-04-27
US	52176580	RQWDFUUHZG6Y7	0226043916	330579060	Old Masters: A Comedy (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Funniest book I've read in a year	This a book about two grumpy old men. &quot; ..he does not like solar radiation. He avoids the sun, there is nothing he shuns more than the sun. 'I hate the sun, you know that I hate the sun more than anything in the  world,' he says. What he likes best are foggy days, on foggy days he leaves  the house very early in the morning, actually takes a walk, which he does  not normally do, for basically he hates walking. I hate walking, he says,it  seems so pointless to me. I walk, and while I am walking I keep thinking  how I hate walking, I have no other thoughts at the time, I cannot  understand  that there are people who are able to think of something other  than that walking is pointless and useless, he says.&quot; If you cannot  find this very funny then this book is not for you. In 156 pages there are  no paragraphs, or chapters. But there is excellent prose and conversations  on philosophy of life, art, suicide, class, Catholicism, nationalism,  culture......life. Very funny and perhaps sad too, but in the end strangely  exhilarating. A wonderful read.	2000-04-27
US	52176580	RBLP92QG1FI82	0679767851	461751714	Coming Through Slaughter	Books	3	12	21	N	N	Jazz lovers take note	Although Buddy Bolden never made a record and the historical evidence surrounding his life has remained slight, he is a legend and remembered by virtually every contemporary musician of his day as the most powerful cornet/trumpet player of the day and very influential. This book is a  poetical evocation of Mr Bolden's life and is written in a fragmented,  impressionistic style by a writer who clearly loves the music.	2000-04-27
US	52176580	R1Z5NF5DF0JP3Y	0679736875	681832218	Talking It Over	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Funny, sexy and well written	&quot;He lies like an eye-witness&quot; Russian saying.  This quote appears on the frontispiece of this enjoyable novel. The opening words of the novel are:&quot; My name is Stuart, and I remember everything.&quot;  So I, dear reader, was sucked in straight away.  It's a first person  narrative from the point of view of the three main characters (the eternal  triangle?) Gillian, Stuart and Oliver. If you are familiar with the  Japanese film masterpiece RASHOMON you will be familiar with the premise.  This book will make your day a little bit brighter. Delicious and  sympathetic humour.	2000-04-27
US	52176580	R6TPD6YZHEVVE	0875805434	683339869	Knock On Any Door	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Most loved novel of adolescence	&quot;What's life?&quot; &quot; A magazine.&quot; &quot; How much it cost?&quot; &quot;Twenty cents.&quot; &quot;I only gotta dime.&quot; &quot;That's life.&quot; After 45 years I still remember parts of Knock on  Any Door. I related more to that book than to any other I read as an  adolescent in the 50's. Why is that? I'm not Catholic. I'm not American. I  didn't speak the language of Nick. Willard Motley is an underappreciated  writer who deserves the highest accolades in touching a chord in young  people . The film with Humphrey Bogart directed by Nick Ray didn't do  justice to the book. From the first word to the last I lived every word  with Nick Romano and his life still echoes with me. Sound sentimental? No.  Sounds like great writing. The music, the pool halls, the tenements, the  &quot;windy city&quot;, the guilt. It was a life to me. Thank you Mr Motley  wherever you are or wherever you may be resting.	2000-04-27
US	52176580	R1WX5IM3XJ5759	0553250515	524181283	The Member of the Wedding	Books	5	9	13	N	N	A jewel of a work, exquisitely written	This is one of the most effective evocations of a child's view of the world I know.  Very carefully crafted prose and a very satisfying read.	2000-04-27
US	52176580	R87TCXRRZ775G	0374525188	315724223	Housekeeping: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Memory and perception in a special world	Ms Robinson has created a world of human beings seeming to exist as memory and perception against a backdrop of overwhelming natural forces. Ruth, her sister and their guardian sit in a darkened house &quot; The lake still  thundered and groaned, the flood waters still brimmed and simmered. When we  did not move or speak, there was no proof that we were there at all. The  wind and the water brought sounds intact from any imaginable distance.  Deprived of all perspective and horizon, I found myself reduced to an  intuition, and my sister and my aunt to something less than that. I was  afraid to put out my hand, for fear it would touch nothing, or to speak,  for fear no one would answer. We all stood there silently for a long  moment.&quot;  Such writing might seem to come close, but never does get,  precious. It is full of telling detail: the furtive closing of a door; the  obsessive cleanliness of Sylvie who soaks tea towels in a solution of water  and bleach over a period of weeks; the memorabilia a grandmother keeps in a  bottom drawer; the old photos in the shoe box with patches of black felty  paper on their backs; the sound of heels bumping with a soft, slow, rhythm  against the legs of the chairs as children wait for their toast to be  buttered. The themes concern desire and loss and our relationship with the  natural world. It takes effort on the reader's part to enter Ms Robinson's  world but what fine writing does not? Effective reading is a creative act  too I understand. This particular journey is well worth the effort.	2000-04-26
US	52176580	R26M41OG0B2S0J	0553580930	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Let's look down our nose at those horrible people	Mr Wolfe has played me for a sucker - and at full price in hardcover. He seems to me to epitomise the very things he tries to satirise - give them what they think they want, puff it up with some clever quips, poke fun at  turns of speech, give it much publicity and sit back and rake in the  greenbacks. You do feel conned about 100 pages from the end as previously  mentioned. But the part that sits least well in my view is the superior  tone. Mr Wolfe doesn't seem to like much about any of his characters and it  shows. Mr Wolfe may now be living off a reputation established a while ago.  This book is a big let down and lightweight fare.	2000-04-26
US	52176580	R3DFBUJTM81B2B	0375703659	572458369	American Visions: The Epic History of Art in America	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Erudite fun - more please!	The first thing to say about this book, and the most important, is that it is a good read. It illuminates its subject matter whereas much writing about art, especially catalogue writing and writing in magazines such as  ART FORUM is bad writing. Such bad writing draws attention to itself and is  characterised by jargon, obfuscation, and mystification. Mr Hughes is  guilty of none of this. Mr Hughes informs elegantly, argues persuasively  and entertains amusingly. Art is well served by this elegant and  opinionated craftsman. I also admire his tone which seems confidently  irreverent. He is a wise debunker without being arrogant. He pays respect  where he thinks it is due but refuses to be taken in, unlike me, by the  sentimental, overwrought or portentous. As a general reader I found him  especially helpful in his analysis of the American icons Andrew Wyeth (whom  I'm a sucker for) Thomas Hart Benton, and the illustrator Norman Rockwell.  The pre-20th Century sympathetic commentary on such masters as Winslow  Homer, whose retrospective at the Metropolitan in New York in 1996 was such  a stunning event, is sheer delight to read.  But I appreciated too his  later chapters on contemporary art where his waggish insights informed by a  formidable intelligence and eye never fail to amuse. Brilliant, and such  fun!  More please.	2000-04-26
US	52176580	R2ZNFCPKDE1SXW	0394505271	832299734	Sleepless nights	Books	5	32	32	N	N	A miniature masterpiece	On almost every page, a truth, poetry, carefully crafted prose: &quot; The large, lonely house in the lovely, lonely northern town. The cold nights and the copper bottoms of the pans slowly losing their sheen. Nothing to  smile about in the afternoons on the improvident sun porch. Bachelors  again, in their depopulated settings,like large animals in their cages in  the zoo, with the name of their species on the door.&quot; Plotless,  apparently autobiographical, with telling observations on humanity  encountered, I loved reading this exquisite work, inflamed as it is with  the acknowledgement of what it is to be human.	2000-04-26
US	52176580	R3EJS384XN52WO	0195090810	735693784	The History of Jazz	Books	5	49	51	N	Y	Among my top five of Jazz Books	I have a reasonable library of jazz books (including The Horn by JC Holmes, American Musicians by Whitney Balliett, Reading Jazz by Gottlieb, etc, etc) but my top five are HEAR ME TALKIN' TO YA by Hentoff and Shapiro; FOUR LIVES IN THE BEBOP BUSINESS by A.B. Spellman; STRAIGHT LIFE by Art and  Laurie Pepper; THE STORY OF JAZZ by Marshall Stearns; and AS SERIOUS AS  YOUR LIFE by Val Wilmer.  What do I want in a jazz book? I want  information, authenticity, entertainment; and decent writing. Now I have to  move Mr Stearns over to make way for Mr Gioia and his HISTORY OF JAZZ for I  believe it deserves to be in that exalted company.	2000-04-25
US	52176580	R1C7VCN3C77PEM	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	4	47	52	N	N	Hitchcock would love this book	A very well crafted tale of horror, suspense, and an understanding of the psychological minutia of relationships which I read in one sitting. If you, dear reader, are interested in psychiatry, the place of scientists and science in the modern world, scientific fashion, obsessive behaviour,  religious faith, love, jealousy, murder, moral choices, guilt, and fear  then this is the book for you. It's also funny eg, '&quot; I'll tell you in  four words and nothing more.  Someone wants to kill me.&quot; In the  silence everyone, including me, totted up the words.'(p216) But if there is  a common theme binding all these elements together, it's that no matter how  well educated or intelligent you are there is no escaping the strait-jacket  of your feelings, and its these feelings, of cowardice, of guilt, of fear,  of the protaganist, Joe Rose, which propel the story forward in true  Hitchcockian manner. The effects of love going sour, the hilarity of buying  a gun from ex-hippies, the strangeness of an ordinary day turning weird are  some of the many highlights of this book.	2000-04-23
US	52176580	R234SQD1U3RYVV	0679446699	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle	Books	5	4	7	N	N	an epic surreal journey through the mind of Mr Wind Up Bird	It's impossible for art to replicate &quot;reality&quot;- reality is too bizarre, too horrible, too chaotic and meaningless to contemplate, especially if we consider the 20th century. MY reality, where my dreams  seem more real than the ordinary day (the ordinary day of the sunlight on  the grass, the distant sound of a car,one's son leaving the toilet seat up,  the smell of burning toast wafting in from a neighbour's house),whereas MY  reality is vivid and repetitious, sometimes scarey, sometimes joyous, and  always lurking just beneath the surface. In other words, I would believe,  quite normal. The first person character in Mr Murakami's book, Mr Okada,  through whose eyes we witness his epic journey which begins with his search  for his missing cat, has some surreal experiences with a faceless man, down  a well, with a baseball bat, in the dark, in the light, in the heat, as a  listener to some horrible and vicious war experiences, as the subject of  some explicit and detailed sexual experience, he seems almost a Don Quixote  or Woody Allen type character, lost in a maelstrom of events, more acted  upon than acting. Mr Murakami makes the ordinary extraordinary, or  juxtaposes the ordinary with another ordinary but different event making a  surreal situation of it. I didn't find the jumping from one thing to  another thing a problem. I found his prose exciting, and funny, and  possessing a delighful clarity.  I still find the opening a laugh, but I  can't explain why: &quot; When the phone rang I was in the kitchen, boiling  a potful of spaghetti and whistling along with an FM broadcast of the  overture to Rossini's THE THIEVING MAGPIE, which has to be the perfect  music for cooking pasta.&quot; Maybe it's  because everything SEEMS so  right, the reader knows that that phone call is going to bring some sort of  problem. And it does.  Over 600 pages, it is a novel that explores at the  one time the history of modern Japan, and the experiences of one modern man  in it, where fear can quickly follow laughter, where life seems both a  puzzle and a fascinating and exciting  journey.it, where fear can quickly follow laughter, where life seems both a  puzzle and a fascinating and exciting  journey.	2000-04-21
US	52176580	R3HJ3G52JZ7SMB	0449911217	553771181	In the Beauty of the Lilies: A Novel	Books	5	14	17	N	N	One of Mr Updike's best novels	Sometimes I've felt Mr Updike has tended to show off his erudition and skill with language at the expense of telling a story so that the reader has been at times more conscious of his rich vocabulary, baroque  permutations and Ossianic sonorities at the expense of what was happening  and why. In this novel language is very much the servant of the tale and  it's a tale very well told. I think also that the story of religion, of the  movies and money is central to the story of the USA in the 20th century, so  I think apart from being a really good read, it is a great study of  American culture and the individual ambitions, needs, hopes, and desires of  the characters who make up its fascinating history. Without wishing to  sound pompous or make the novel seem portentous and inaccessible which it  very much is not, I think it's an important book. And it is as enjoyable as  RABBIT, RUN, and there's been a lot of water under the bridge since that  was written, so to speak.	2000-04-21
US	52176580	RV52NFMVKVWEJ	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A spot on &quot;boys own manual &quot; about record geeks	This is now released as a movie I believe. I cannot say anything better than Tina B's review below. I can only add that I identified completely with the language and priorities of Rob even though I'm old enough to  almost be his grandfather. Some things never change! The only difference is  my music is jazz and classical. Rob thinks about what music he would like  played at his funeral! How many of us have thought about that? I'm torn  between PEACE PIECE by Bill Evans and MILESTONES by Miles Davis. Shades of  THE BIG CHILL! Shades of ego-centric adolescents! Do all men remain boys at  heart? HELP! It's extremely well written, and captures the language of  record &quot;geeks&quot; well, but is no masterpiece.  Excellent read for  that long flight.	2000-04-21
US	52176580	R3G5A4H1UPENXB	1853266752	950428116	Gallipoli (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	History made vivid and exciting	I first read this text at age 19 in 1960 and was most impressed with its narrative skill and ability to bring to life the historical characters involved. I have since reread it and remain satisfied with Mr Moorehead's ability to make the events vivid and touching.  I was especially impressed  with his re-enactment of the actual landing, the incredible amount of  equipment the youngsters had to carry, the reason the ships remained so  distant from shore (afraid of touching bottom)the sense of distance those  in charge had from the events they were supposed to be controlling, and the  tragic sadness of it all. I was also impressed with the amazing courage he  described the Turks as having so that the reader is not given the  impression that the allies were just &quot;better chaps&quot; than the  &quot;Turkish infidel&quot;. Now at the close of the fifties in racist  Australia at the time of communist and Asian indeed foreign paranoia this  was refreshing and somewhat liberal to a young mind. One of the best and  most enjoyable reads on  World War One.	2000-04-20
US	52176580	R1T2V94B8X5FTD	0679408045	552484111	Mapplethorpe	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Respectful treatment of a great artist	A stunning monograph on one of America's greatest artists beautifully produced and bound by Random House. Classical form with revolutionary subject matter (eg, MAN IN POLYESTER SUIT,1980), whether a simple portrait of ROY COHN, or BRUCE CHATWIN, or a series on LISA LYON or the luminous,  exquisite portrait of FRANCESCA THYSSEY 1981, or COCK 1982, or EGGPLANT,  1985, light and shadow (he appears to have worked exclusively in black and  white)and composition are masterful and reveal Mr Mapplethorpe as a  visionary artist. Athur C. Danto provides a useful and insightful analysis  of Mr Mapplethorpe's contribution to the art, including the feminist  perspective on his work as well as consideration of the problematic area of  the use of children as subjects. A rewarding legacy of a great artist at a  very reasonable price.	2000-04-19
US	52176580	R3B7LJ29E52YRD	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A novel of beauty and wonder	The farm work of Ada and Ruby, two central characters in this novel, seems a noble thing. It's a matter of real survival but the learning process Ruby submits Ada to is made a real thing of beauty by the author - as if Ada is  awakening to the meaning of life and its meaning is found in the inherent  detail of doing the daily things of farm work that are a drudge but are  given a purpose and meaning. What seems a daunting even impossible task -  running a farm in the wilds of of the mountains - comes a lesson on life.  Ruby's secret is \\" not to get ahead of yourself.  Go at a rhythm that  could be sustained on and on. Do just as much as you could do and still be  able to get up and do again tomorrow.  No more, no less.\\" Samuel  Beckett would agree with this. Moving constantly between Inman's returning  odyssey and Ada's waiting and life establishing work, the novel never flags  in interest.  Whether an aside concerns apple picking, or fiddle playing,  or drawing a hog, or star gazing, Frazier makes it a thing of beauty and  wonder - no mean achievement. A substantial part of his achievement is the  language which is perfectly suited to the time and place and seems to catch  the truth of the characters so effectively. One further example: Stobrod,  Ruby's Daddy, is not an especially likeable character, a lazy irresponsible  scallywag actually, but following the evolution of Stobrod's music, how he  constructs his fiddle, learns to play, improvises melodies, and composes,  is in itself a study in musical appreciation of the most sympathetic kind.  The music created is not external to the maker but a natural and inevitable  expression of his soul. \\" As the tune drew toward a close, Stobrod  jacked back his head so that he seemed to be reviewing the stars, but his  eyes were shut. The butt of the fiddle pressed against his heart and the  bow worked in jerky, stuttering little strokes.  His mouth flew open at the  ultimate moment, but he did not hoot or squeal as Ada expected. Instead, he  smiled a deep long smile of silent delight.\\"  This is revelatory  writing. There are many such moments in this novel. Incidentally, this novel is far far superior to the rather flat film of the same name starring Nicole Kidman et alected. Instead, he  smiled a deep long smile of silent delight.\\"  This is revelatory  writing. There are many such moments in this novel. Incidentally, this novel is far far superior to the rather flat film of the same name starring Nicole Kidman et al	2000-04-16
US	52176580	R11062NE6SN8NB	0684854848	919570880	Blind Eye: How the Medical Establishment Let a Doctor Get Away with Murder	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Real life more frightening than fiction	I read this investigative 314 page book in one sitting. If there's a lesson in it, it's that authority figures, such as doctors, suffer pride, envy, lust, just like the rest of us but unlike the rest of us, too often  fail to acknowledge their fallibility.  It highlights the patriarchal and  sexist nature of the American medical profession which, like other parts of  society, is not hermetically sealed off from that society. Example: the  direct eye evidence of an elderly female patient counts for nothing; the  evidence of nurses counts for little; the suppositions and the presumptions  of doctors counts a great deal - and so a serial killer doctor continues to  practice. Equally frightening is how a number of eminent and respected so  called &quot;scientists&quot; of some very prestigious medical  establishments chose Dr Michael Swango because they liked the look of him,  because he seemed nice. To what extent did Dr Swango achieve his macabre  goals because he was the picture of an energetic, white, clean cut,  blue-eyed, blonde haired American ex-marine? (The author notes that staff  at one mid-western hospital were relieved to find Dr Swango was  &quot;english speaking&quot; so many &quot;foreign doctors&quot; had they  through their portals).<br />Although I felt a little uneasy in the beginning  of this book at what seemed to be the gossip like approach of the author,  about who did or didn't like Michael Swango at school, whose favourite he  was at home etc, the beginning serves to draw you in to his life through  the eyes of friends acquaintances and relatives so that the real horror of  his actions slowly dawns on the reader. In a state approaching disbelief  you are witness to a horrible journey. Thanks to the American press and to  patients such as Mrs Delbert Cooper Sr and to the author and to the nurses  involved the mistakes made can be revealed, and discussed. A tad more  humility by some doctors might have helped to prevent a lot of what  happened in this story.this story.	2000-04-16
US	52176580	R3RYPZALA2DSQ4	0679776818	168251186	Birdsong: A Novel of Love and War	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the great novels about World War 1	Mr Faulks has managed to contrast the sweetness of ordinary life with the horror of hell on earth, making each the more remarkable.  Especially memorable is the claustrophobic atmosphere he renders when soldiers are  buried alive - a lengthy, haunting and vivid sequence. There is also the  common humanity and love that wends its way through the hearts of men from  different classes forced together in war.  Mr Faulks art and craft are  quite up to the task of such a devastating 20th century event. His  characterisation, emotional truth (Stephen Wraysford's hatred of the Bosch  is one motivating survival technique that he maintains almost to the  end)and stunning attention to detail, make the novel a moving experience.	2000-04-14
US	52176580	R1CZ16T563KISX	0316920045	669738240	Infinite Jest: A Novel	Books	1	21	42	N	N	Overblown and overrated	Driven by some work ethic perhaps or maybe  guilt, I rarely fail to complete a novel once started. In the case of Infinite Jest it got the better of me. Length is not a problem. Craft is. Themes are. Too much has  been written about this bloated piece of work already. Reading it is just  not worth the effort, and effort is the right word here. For a comparison  try a page of two of The Wind-Up-Bird-Chronicle.	2000-04-14
US	52176580	R1B33MOOXHD4EC	0879519355	470877990	With Nails: The Film Diaries of Richard E. Grant	Books	3	2	2	N	N	He could charm the leg off an iron pot	Witty, modest, insightful and charming, Mr Grant provides a delightful insider look at the making of modern movies from an actor's standpoint.  This is the perfect book for that long flight. I'm almost tempted to see  the cult film Hudson Hawk which has apparently made some Worst Movie Ever  Made lists. On the other hand, The Player should be reckoned one of the  best. A fun read.	2000-04-14
US	52176580	R2L2JZKCMGMJ7D	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A novel of surpassing wit and humanity	I regret this novel ever finished. This is because the characters are so vividly and sympathetically drawn, the atmosphere of N'Orleans so effectively captured, and the cadence of speech so real, one is filled with  an indefinable love of life itself through having experienced the world of  Confederacy of Dunces. There's little plot and what there is I can't relate  it. If there's a major theme it might be that even the lowest ragamuffin  and connivingest wretch can be possessed of a surpassing wit and humanity  that make them interesting and important in the scheme of things. Pride,  greed, sloth, vanity, arrogance, venality, selfishness may possess the  characters and yet an essential vulnerability and innocence and humanity  make them redeemable. A lovely, lovely novel by a writer to be spoken of in  the same breath as Twain, Dickens and Goncharov.	2000-04-13
US	52176580	R2TAPFVV3660AH	0571140866	246323680	Nicholas Ray: An American Journey	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Thorough examination of American auteur director	Cinema and theatre lovers should find this book an interesting and revealing read.  Bernard Eisenschitz has done credit to another American film master more appreciated in Europe than in his own country.  The early  chapters are especially interesting in regard to Ray's apprenticeship and  contribution to theatre in New York and elsewhere. Theatre of Action,  Federal Government subsidies for the arts and the whole question of  government support and the benefits these brought, Voice of America, and  Ray's sympathies for the marginalised of American society are all  attentively addressed by the author. Insights into the relationships  between studios and artists, the power of stars, the evolution of scripts,  the egoes of such as Joan Crawford, the genesis of some memorable even  iconographic films such as Rebel Without a Cause, make for an excellent  read. At least two films Ray made, In A Lonely PLace and Johhny Guitar, can  be reckoned as American masterpieces and for these alone Ray deserved this  biography. It contains 79 illustrations, extensive notes, a detailed  filmography and comprehensive index. I recommemd this text for the general  reader even vaguely interested in American cinema.	2000-04-12
US	52176580	R1UDQWGJKUVQQI	9992150181	339744992	The Doctor's Wife	Books	3	1	10	N	N	Very readable novel raising interesting moral questions	This review is for The Doctor's Wife by Brian Moore and has been inadvertently transferred to this novel in translation by Amazon. Dealing with themes of politics, sex and religion this novel immediately excites one's attention as none of these are matters for polite conversation. Are they? Apart from his craftsmanship as a writer, the novel seems much shorter than its 230 pages perhaps because of its unity of time and place and action. As an artifact I really liked it as I identified with young Tom Lowry (26) in his affair with Mrs Sheila Redden(37)and found the sexual congress between them quite well done - erotic it was. Where more romantic than Paris and Nice? Mrs Redden is returning to her honeymoon hotel of many years before where her husband is to join her when his duties as a medical officer in Belfast permit. She is unfulfilled, shy perhaps, sensitive of course, likes the arts including romantic literature. Her husband, whom she perceives as boring, is something of a workaholic no doubt due to the demands of a practice in Belfast, and is a practical, unromantic, no nonsense individual who doesn't understand his wife, or perhaps, appreciate her. Her son is an ungrateful 14 year old boy. Mrs Redden precedes her husband on the holiday back to the past, meets handsome American Tom Lowry, and before you can say &quot;Have you got a diaphragm&quot; they're going at it hammer and tongs, so to speak. The sex is good, very good, and Mrs Redden decides she wants less of her husband and more of Tom. In the event she decides to leave her husband and her son. The husband in his frustration and anger turns up at the lover's hotel and commits a pretty horrible act of violence on Mrs Redden. And that pretty much is it, in terms of artifact and enjoyable read. But it does throw up some interesting moral questions. Is it enough to abandon a marriage because you are bored with it and strike out on your own to get &quot;fulfilled&quot;? If the good Doctor had not committed the act of violence after she'd decided to leave him, there's no doubt I think that the reader would have felt much less sympathy for Mrs Redden. In short, there's enough titillation and enough intelligent consideration of a number of issues to make this a worthwhile read.act of violence after she'd decided to leave him, there's no doubt I think that the reader would have felt much less sympathy for Mrs Redden. In short, there's enough titillation and enough intelligent consideration of a number of issues to make this a worthwhile read.	2000-04-03
US	52176580	R1ZGJJ20POVP7B	0465031501	29630926	How to Stop Time: Heroin From A To Z	Books	3	17	24	N	N	absorbing and honest read	Heroin is a selfish drug and its users are boring people. Istill hold that view after reading this book.  The more I learn aboutthe notion of being cool, the more I see ordinary people facing their day to day anxieties and overcoming them without resorting to drugs, as heroic, indeed, as super cool.  I was keen to read the work as I have two adult children who have been users for over a decade. Although they have led fairly normal lives the financial and emotional costs have been considerable.  One has Hepatitis C. As they injected I assume they were more cool than Ann Marlowe. But I was especially interested in the insights by Ms Marlowe regarding relationships - because the user's mind is constantly concerned with how long since they got on, when they're next going to get on, etc, etc they are not &quot;there&quot; with you.  They are self-absorbed. I was also interested in the users attitude to money (Heroin habits are denominated in dollars not by mass or frequency), sex, home, glamour, dealers all of which are conveniently covered in alphabetical order. I'm convinced the most effective weapon against heroin is not draconion laws and all out war - which is clearly being lost, just as Prohibition was lost in the USA - but knowledge. Ann Marlowe's book is an intelligent and useful insight into the user's motivation, lifestyle, priorities and experience. It is well written and an absorbing and honest work.	2000-03-30
US	52176580	R33UM4VMP48BB4	0684838834	520743760	John Waynes America	Books	2	2	12	N	N	Little to do about an important topic	There is an excellent essay hidden away in this book. The question is does one have the time to search it out? Some interesting insights into the making of Stagecoach (cf stuntrider Yak Canutt)and The Searchers, and some  analysis of the genesis and making of The Green Berets which is frankly  hilarious, but much too much padding for my taste. I remain really  interested in what drives that fascinating thing, The American Mind, and if  there is a collective consciousness. I realise it remains true that Arnold  Schwarzenegger is better known in small villages in India than their Prime  Minister but that still doesn't explain the acceptance of Wayne as the  Great American Hero.  Wayne's huge popularity as pointed out in the book  does point to a significant part of America has an image of itself that is  inherent in Wayne's persona.	2000-02-13
